
        Derick J. Daniels, a former newspaper executive who helped steer Hugh Hefner's Playboy empire through rough patches in the 1970's, died last Saturday at his home in Miami. He was 76 and also had a home on the East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Daniels's death was first reported in The Detroit Free Press, where as executive editor he oversaw its Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of the 1967 riot in Detroit.
        Derick January Daniels was born in Washington to a family with roots in North Carolina politics and newspaper publishing. After graduating with a degree in journalism from the University of North Carolina in 1950, he worked for various papers in the South, though never for the family's newspaper in Raleigh, The News and Observer. He joined The Free Press as assistant executive editor in the early 1960's. He became vice president for news of Knight Newspapers and president of Knight News Services in 1973 and was named a vice president at Knight-Ridder Newspapers the next year.
        He left Knight-Ridder in 1976 when Mr. Hefner invited him to become president and chief executive of Playboy Enterprises, with the understanding that he was to train Mr. Hefner's daughter Christie to take over and turn around the company, which had grown beyond its core asset of Playboy magazine to include resort hotels, a book club, music and movie theater divisions. Under his guidance, the company shed unprofitable enterprises and cut overhead by 40 percent by 1982, when he ceded control to Ms. Hefner, who is now chairwoman and chief executive.
        He was later associated with One Woman magazine and the Ocean Drive, Ocean Drive Español and Vegas magazines. In 2001 he went into a real-estate development partnership, TerraTran L.L.C., in Ormond Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Daniels is survived by his third wife, Lee Vranes Daniels; two sons from his first marriage, Leigh C., of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Scott J., of Baltimore; a brother, Dr. Worth B. Daniels of Baltimore; two stepsons, Joseph R. Wasserstrom of Cincinnati, and Dirk P. Wasserstrom of Aventura, Fla.; and three grandchildren.
      