
        Sixten Ehrling, a Swedish conductor of vigor and precision who conducted at the Metropolitan Opera, was the music director of the Detroit Symphony for a decade, and directed the conducting programs at the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 86.
        His daughter Elisabeth Ehrling-Shreve said that he died at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
        Mr. Ehrling prized subtlety and efficiency over showiness, and although he was a lyrical conductor at times, he seemed mostly to emphasize structural logic and forward movement over Romanticism and fluidity. His gestures tended to be focused rather than grandly sweeping. Yet his readings, whether at the head of a professional orchestra or a student ensemble, were invariably models of interpretive clarity.
        He was at his best in texturally dense, rich-hued works like the Nielsen, Berwald, Sibelius and Mahler symphonies, Wagner's ''Ring'' operas, Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra and Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring.'' His repertory was huge, partly because he championed new music throughout his career. In his years with the Detroit Symphony, he conducted nearly 700 works, including 24 world premieres.
        Mr. Ehrling was born in Malmo, Sweden, on April 3, 1918. He studied violin, piano and composition at the Swedish Royal Academy of Music. In his student years, he worked as a coach at the Swedish Royal Opera, in Stockholm, where he made his professional debut in 1940. In 1941, he became an assistant to Karl Bohm at the Dresden State Opera. He returned to Sweden in 1942 and was appointed music director of the Stockholm Concert Society in 1943.
        He also returned to the Swedish Royal Opera as an assistant. He was appointed music director of the company in 1953, and was given the title Premiere Royal Court Conductor of Sweden by King Gustav VI. In 1960, Mr. Ehrling left the Swedish opera to focus more on his international career, but he performed there frequently as a guest conductor into the 1990's.
        Mr. Ehrling made his American debut with the Detroit Symphony in 1961, and in 1963 he succeeded Paul Paray as that orchestra's music director. He helped found the Meadow Brook Music Festival, the Detroit Symphony's summer home at Oakland University, in Rochester, Mich. In 10 years in Detroit, he was credited with raising the orchestra's national profile and bringing its sound to maturity.
        Reviewing a Detroit Symphony concert at Carnegie Hall in 1968, Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The Times that Mr. Ehrling's ''interpretations have shape and musicianship, his ideas are interesting and his orchestra plays for him.'' He continued, ''He has built the Detroit Symphony into one of the country's best.''
        In 1973, Mr. Ehrling left the Detroit Symphony to become director of the conducting program at the Juilliard School, where his students included several prominent younger conductors, among them Myung-Whun Chung, JoAnn Falletta, Andrew Litton and Andreas Delfs. Mr. Ehrling retired in 1987, but in 1993 he was appointed chief conductor and musical adviser to the three orchestras at the Manhattan School of Music.
        He made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1973, conducting Britten's ''Peter Grimes.'' In his five seasons with the company, Mr. Ehrling also led performances of the Wagner ''Ring,'' with Birgit Nilsson; the Met premiere of Bartok's ''Bluebeard's Castle''; and works by Verdi, Puccini and Saint-Sa
        ns. He appeared as a guest conductor with many of the world's great orchestras and opera companies, and was music adviser to the Florida Philharmonic in 1975, the San Diego Symphony in 1985 and the San Antonio Symphony from 1985 to 1988. He was also principal guest conductor at the Denver Symphony from 1979 to 1985.
        Among his recordings are several highly regarded performances, including Nielsen's Symphony No. 3 with the Danish National Orchestra, on the Audiofon label, and a set of the Berwald Symphonies, on Bis.
        Mr. Ehrling is survived by his wife, Gunnel Lindgren-Ehrling, a former prima ballerina with the Royal Swedish Ballet, and two daughters: Elisabeth Ehrling-Shreve, of Silverthorne, Colo., and Ann-Charlotte Ehrling-Jackman, of Breckenridge, Colo.
      