
        Lawrence G. Rawl, who led an overhaul of Exxon's operations in the 1980's and shaped the company's response to the Exxon Valdez oil spill, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Worth. He was 76.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Rawl spent 39 years at Exxon and was chairman and chief executive from 1987 to 1993. Under his leadership, Exxon scaled down and reduced costs by selling subsidiaries, closing service stations and moving its headquarters from Manhattan to Irving, Tex. It also expanded its chemical operations and increased its oil and gas reserves, largely by exploring sites in Africa and Asia.
        But the Exxon Valdez's oil spill on March 24, 1989, eclipsed his efforts. After striking a reef in Prince William Sound in Southeast Alaska, the tanker leaked 11 million gallons of crude oil, eventually polluting more than 1,000 miles of shoreline, killing tens of thousands of birds and sea animals, and temporarily putting thousands of fishermen out of work.
        Exxon's initial response to the spill struck much of the public as slow and lacking. The company took almost two days to begin cleaning, saying it was waiting for authorization from Alaska, and Mr. Rawl waited almost a week before commenting and nearly three weeks before visiting the site.
        ''I've fished in Alaska,'' he explained a month later to Fortune magazine, ''and I've been to Valdez a number of times, so I know what it physically looks like. From a public relations standpoint, it probably would have been better had I gone up there.''
        Exxon later took out full-page advertisements in dozens of newspapers to apologize and in 1991 agreed to pay $1 billion to settle a criminal lawsuit brought by the Justice Department and the Alaska state government. By the time Alaska and the federal government declared the cleanup complete in 1992, Exxon had spent more than $2 billion on it.
        Lawrence G. Rawl was born in Lyndhurst, N.J., on May 4, 1928, the fifth of six children. He enlisted in the Marine Corps near the end of World War II and graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1952 with a degree in petroleum engineering.
        He then worked as a drilling engineer in southern Texas for the Humble Oil and Refining Company, a predecessor to the Exxon Company USA, a unit of the Exxon Corporation. Promotions took him to New York, Houston and London. He became a director and senior vice president of Exxon Corporation in 1980. He was named president in 1985 and became chairman and chief executive two years later.
        Mr. Rawl is survived by his wife, Gail Williamson Rawl; two daughters, Jana Nichols and Kelly Guziejka, both of Austin, Tex.; a son, L. Vincent Rawl, also of Austin; three stepchildren, Kimberly Darden, Annette Williamson and Philip, all of Fort Worth; three sisters, Virginia Wald of Haddon Heights, N.J.; Frances Unser of Blaine, Wash.; and Patricia M. Rawl of Las Cruces, N.M.; a brother, James W. Rawl of Eastham, Mass.; five grandchildren; and seven step-grandchildren. His first wife, Betty E. Rawl, and a son, M. Michael Rawl, died before him.
      