
        Aubelin Jolicoeur, the diminutive, squeaky-voiced, cane-twirling gossip columnist, dandy and rumored political fixer who called himself Mr. Haiti and was best known as the model for the prying journalist and police informer Petit Pierre in Graham Greene's 1966 novel ''The Comedians,'' died Feb. 14 in Jacmel, Haiti. He was 80.
        The cause was respiratory failure resulting from Parkinson's disease, his daughter Irma Jolicoeur said.
        Many who knew Mr. Jolicoeur felt that Greene caught him perfectly in his description at the start of Chapter 2:
        ''He giggled up to me, standing on his pointed toe-caps, for he was a tiny figure of a man. He was just as I had remembered him, hilarious. Even the time of day was humorous to him. He had the quick movements of a monkey, and he seemed to swing from wall to wall on ropes of laughter. I had always thought that, when the time came, and surely it must one day come in his precarious defiant livelihood, he would laugh at his executioner.''
        Mr. Jolicoeur never minded this not-so-flattering portrait, his friends and relatives said. Nor did he object to the pictures painted of him as a charming scoundrel in other books, like ''The Immaculate Invasion,'' by Bob Shacochis, in which he is described as an ''aging spy, former Duvalier apparatchik, dapper gallant and gossip columnist.'' Or like ''Best Nightmare on Earth: A Life in Haiti,'' by Herbert Gold, where Aubie, as Mr. Gold calls him, is depicted approaching Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller after the governor had spent only a single night at the Villa Creole in Port-au-Prince, and saying: ''Mr. Rockefeller, it hurt us that you stay one night. If you stay longer, I will try to get you the room free.''
        The recognition such portraits prompted served Mr. Jolicoeur's many purposes in life, which were to mix with people, gather grist for his column in the newspaper Le Nouvelliste, confide political tips, trade favors, meet celebrities and flirt with attractive women. He is survived by nine children, five grandchildren, a brother and three sisters, his daughter Irma said.
        His dress was dapper: white three-piece suits, cravats, handkerchiefs, high-topped boots and a gold-topped cane. His milieus were the airport, where he would announce to newcomers: ''Bonsoir, cheri. Mr. Haiti at your service,'' and the Hotel Oloffson in Port-au-Prince, where a suite was eventually named after him.
        His heyday was in the 1950's and 60's, when people flocked to Haiti for its exotica, despite its poverty and political turmoil. The people he knew included reporters, diplomats and art dealers. Truman Capote is supposed to have introduced him to Greene.
        Roscoe Lee Browne played Petite Pierre in the film version of ''The Comedians,'' starring Richard Burton, whom Mr. Jolicoeur also knew, of course.
        His assets were many: knowledge of literature, a plumy English accent, a command of classical French and a friendship with the Haitian dictator François Duvalier going back to their boyhoods in Jacmel. The jobs he listed on his résumé included cabinet minister, director of tourism, art gallery owner and ''Haiti's first public relations man.'' His outlook was determinedly sunny; he is said to have told Greene: ''We Haitians are all comedians. What you see here is all just a show.''
        Several people who knew him said that beneath the comedian was a serious man. He was born in Jacmel on April 30, 1924, to a French father, described variously as an affluent coffee planter, the son of a coffee trader's accountant and a poor coffee-bean sharecropper, and a Haitian mother, who is rumored to have given birth to him at midnight in a cemetery she was walking by when she went into labor.
        He moved to Port-au-Prince at 19 to study agronomy but switched to journalism when Le Nouvelliste offered him a job.
        Ill in his last years, he lived in a run-down hotel in the Petionville section of Port-au-Prince, his past stored in cardboard boxes, his gold-topped cane stolen and replaced by a silver-topped one. He is buried in the cemetery where he is said to have been born.
      