
        Philip Lamantia, the rapturous San Francisco poet who embraced Surrealism and later associated himself with the West Coast Beat community, died on March 7 at his apartment in San Francisco. He was 77.
        The cause was heart failure, a spokesman for his publisher, City Lights Books, said.
        ''Philip Lamantia's poems are about rapture as a condition,'' the poet Tom Clark wrote in a review of Mr. Lamantia's ''Selected Poems, 1943-1966'' (City Lights, 1967) in The New York Times Book Review. ''They are spiritual and erotic at the same time. Bright and dark, the enclosed polarities of devotion. St. Teresa and Rimbaud.''
        Mr. Lamantia's path to these poetic extremes was serpentine. Born in San Francisco on Oct. 23, 1927, to Nunzio, a produce broker, and Mary Tarantino Lamantia, both of whom immigrated from Sicily as children, he began writing Poe-like poems in elementary school and promoting social revolution in junior high, from which he was briefly expelled for ''intellectual delinquency.''
        In his freshman year in high school, he saw a retrospective exhibition of Dali and Miró, which made such a powerful impression that he embraced the fantastical artistic and literary movement Surrealism.
        At 16, Mr. Lamantia dropped out of school and moved to New York City. He worked as an assistant editor at View: A Magazine of the Arts, which had published poems he had written at 15, and he continued to write and publish. He met several expatriate Surrealists, including André Breton, the prophet of the movement, who declared Mr. Lamantia ''a voice that rises once in a hundred years.''
        After publishing his first book at 19, ''Erotic Poems'' (Bern Porter, 1946), Mr. Lamantia grew disillusioned with the New York scene and returned to San Francisco. He completed high school and enrolled in the University of California, Berkeley, where he became part of the revolutionary left and studied subjects pertaining to Gnosticism, mysticism, eroticism and heretical thought. All the while he continued writing and publishing poems and articles.
        He never graduated from Berkeley. In the 1950's, he began to explore altered states of consciousness through hallucinogenic drugs, attending peyote rituals with various American Indian tribes. He traveled in France and Morocco, returning now and then to the United States, where he plunged himself into urban night life. He became associated with the Beat movement, although his work remained distinct from the Beats' concerns with homosexual themes and everyday minutiae, continuing his own quest for the heterosexually erotic and the mystical.
        By the time his ''Selected Poems, 1943-1966'' was published, he was living in Spain, fighting depression, studying mathematics and writing intermittently.
        In the remaining decades of his life he returned to San Francisco, lectured on poetry at San Francisco State University and San Francisco Art Institute, and took up American Indian and environmental causes.
        In 1978, he married Nancy Joyce Peters, who became his editor at City Lights and who survives him.
        His distinctive surrealistic poetry was collected in four more volumes ''The Blood of the Air'' (1970), ''Becoming Visible'' (1981), ''Meadowlark West'' (1986) and ''Bed of Sphinxes: New and Selected Poems 1943-1993'' (1997), making a total of nine published in his lifetime.
        His work commanded respect for inhabiting the realm of what he called ''King Analogue/Queen Image/Prince Liberty. . . .'' And he was, as Yves le Pellec, a French critic, put it, ''a living link between French Surrealism and the American counterculture at its beginnings.''
      