
        Trude Rittmann, a choral and dance-music arranger for Broadway favorites from ''Carousel'' in 1945 to a ''Sound of Music'' revival half a century later, died on Feb. 22 in Lexington, Mass. She was 96 and had been living in Waltham, Mass., in retirement.
        The death was announced by the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization in Manhattan.A pianist and composer, Ms. Rittmann was first hired by Lincoln Kirstein in 1937, played piano for George Balanchine's American Ballet Caravan -- a forerunner of the New York City Ballet -- and was a concert pianist for the choreographer Agnes de Mille. Ms. de Mille then took her on as dance arranger in 1943 when she choreographed the Kurt Weill musical ''One Touch of Venus.''
        Ms. Rittmann's was an unsung art, performed mostly behind the scenes, with no Tonys and little public notice until fairly recent years. It was her forte to take a composer's theme or melody and mold it into ballet or the incidental music woven in for dramatic effect.
        Among the other luminaries who entrusted their work to her were Lerner and Loewe, Irving Berlin and Jerome Robbins. In her years with the City Ballet, she adapted and shaped compositions by Aaron Copland, Elliott Carter, Virgil Thomson, Marc Blitzstein and Leonard Bernstein.
        On Broadway, in 1954, she provided incidental music for Tinker Bell and Captain Hook's crew of pirates in ''Peter Pan,'' for which she had already been musical arranger and coordinator in a 1950 production. She arranged the dances for ''Finian's Rainbow'' (1947), and assisted Miss de Mille in ''Brigadoon'' (1947), and Richard Rodgers in ''South Pacific'' (1949), which ran for 1,925 performances.
        She was the ballet or dance arranger, or otherwise musically engaged, for other long-running productions, like ''The King and I'' (1951), ''Wish You Were Here'' (1952), ''Fanny'' (1954), ''My Fair Lady'' (1956) and its 1976 revival, the original ''Sound of Music'' (1959), ''Camelot'' (1960), ''Gigi'' (1973) and ''Jerome Robbins' Broadway'' (1989), a revue to which she contributed as a dance arranger.
        Trude Rittmann was born in Mannheim, Germany. She started piano lessons at 6, graduated from the Conservatory in Cologne and had made a name for herself as anavant-garde composer by the time she arrived in New York in 1937. She continued to compose music for ballet and television while making her career on Broadway.
        She left no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  March 11, 2005, Friday  An obituary headline yesterday about a choral and dance-music arranger who worked on popular Broadway musicals misspelled her surname. She was Trude Rittmann, not Rittman.
      