
        Nicolas M. Salgo, a Hungarian immigrant who prospered as a financier and a builder of the Watergate complex in Washington and returned to his native Budapest as the United States ambassador in the 1980's, died on Saturday on a visit to Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Key Largo, Fla., and on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The death was announced by his family.
        Mr. Salgo was chairman of the Watergate Companies, which operate the hotel, office and retail complex, when President Ronald Reagan sent him to Budapest in 1983. Before that, he was a consultant on foreign aid and a member of the government's International Private Enterprise Task Force.
        Over the years, he was also associated with the builder William Zeckendorf Sr. at Webb & Knapp, the construction firm; with the Bangor Punta conglomerate; and with a ranching operation in Oregon, among other concerns. A generous contributor to the Republican Party, he topped its lists of donors in 1988 with a reported $503,263 in donations.
        As ambassador to Hungary, he privately commissioned the sculptor Imre Varga to create a bronze-and-granite monument to Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who saved thousands of Hungarian Jews from the Nazis before disappearing into Soviet captivity. The statue was dedicated in Budapest in 1987.
        Mr. Salgo left Hungary in 1986 to become a State Department specialist in property issues, negotiating agreements with Eastern European nations on matters like sites for embassies.
        In his lifelong travels, Mr. Salgo amassed an eclectic collection of art, much of it Hungarian. When he left government service in 1993, he formed the Salgo Trust for Education, an art history research center, which has exhibited his collection in museums in this country and overseas. The trust says it has the largest body of Hungarian art outside Hungary.
        Nicolas Miklos Salgo was educated in Hungary, receiving doctorates in law and philosophy at the University of Budapest in 1937. He started his business career in 1938 as an import-export manager and later became a partner in Geneva with a Swiss firm, which sent him to New York in 1948.
        There, he met Mr. Zeckendorf and rose as a financial executive in Webb & Knapp. He also began an association with the architect I.M. Pei, who then worked in the firm's design unit. After that, he was involved in the deals that stitched together the Bangor Punta conglomerate, whose largest division was Piper Aircraft.
        Meanwhile, he became a principal in the financing, development and construction of the Watergate. Later, he was chairman of the Watergate Companies from 1977 until 1983.
        Mr. Salgo's first marriage, to Marika Noren Salgo, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 34 years, Josseline de Ferron Salgo; a son and a daughter from his earlier marriage, Dr. Miklos P. Salgo of Kinnelon, N.J., and Christina G. Salgo of Rockport, Mass.; and three grandsons.
      