
        Harold Brooks-Baker, an American authority on British nobility who was a sought-after commentator on the doings -- serious, scandalous or merely ridiculous -- of the British royal family, died on Saturday in London. He was 71 and had lived in London for more than 30 years.
        The cause was complications of post-polio syndrome and a fall he suffered in November, his daughter Natasha said.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Brooks-Baker was publishing director of Burke's Peerage Partnership, a publishing and genealogy concern. He was previously a managing director of Debrett's Peerage.
        Regularly quoted by reporters, Mr. Brooks-Baker's opinions on the British monarchy were characteristically American in their no-holds-barred approach.
        On Diana, Princess of Wales: ''She shows herself to be very mentally disturbed and a very sad person who has been badly treated by the world.''
        On Prince Harry: ''I think that the difficulty will come a few years from now when there isn't the place for him any more than there was for Princess Margaret.''
        On Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York: ''If you sat her next to Henry VIII, you would have an interesting time deciding who was the most vulgar.''
        An adroit publicist, Mr. Brooks-Baker often beat the reporters to the punch, issuing a public statement in response to the slightest royal transgression. This kept him extremely busy.
        Mr. Brooks-Baker recently gave his blessing to the wedding of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles, calling Queen Elizabeth's decision not to attend the ceremony ''an outrage.'' He added, ''This has got to stop, otherwise they will ruin the whole fabric of the monarchy.''
        Harold Brooks Baker was born in Washington on Nov. 16, 1933, the son of Silas Baker and the former Elizabeth Lambert. He earned a bachelor's degree from Trinity College in Hartford and later went to Europe as a bond trader, settling in London in the late 1960's.
        There, Mr. Brooks-Baker, who along the way had acquired a hyphen, completed the kind of personal reinvention that recalls the American-born, Europe-besotted heroes of Henry James. Always called Brookie, he was described by The New York Times in 1978 as ''European in tastes and speech, American in drive.''
        In 1976, Mr. Brooks-Baker and several partners took over Debrett's Peerage, a competitor of Burke's. A master of marketing, Mr. Brooks-Baker quickly shook things up. In 1978, for instance, Debrett's published ''The English Gentleman,'' a satirical advice book. As paraphrased by The New York Times, the book counseled that a gentleman ''does not drive a Rolls-Royce unless it is very old and smells of dogs,'' and always ''speaks to the engineer before a train trip because of an old belief that he owns the railroad.'' Mr. Brooks-Baker moved to Burke's in 1984. At the time, the company was in poor financial condition. It had already sold the publication rights to its flagship reference work, Burke's Peerage and Baronetage, first published in 1826, some years before. (Now in its 107th edition, Burke's Peerage and Baronetage is published by Burke's Peerage and Gentry, which is not connected to Mr. Brooks-Baker's company.)
        At Burke's, Mr. Brooks-Baker oversaw the company's other titles, among them ''Burke's Presidential Families of the United States of America.'' (The current President Bush, Mr. Brooks-Baker said, is a 13th cousin to the current Queen Elizabeth.) The company also traces ancestries and designs coats of arms for the already titled and the merely wistful.
        Mr. Brooks-Baker's first marriage, to Irène du Luart de la Rochefoucauld , ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, the former Catherine Neville Rolfe; a brother, Lambert Baker, of DeLand, Fla.; two daughters from his first marriage, Nadia Loudon and Natasha, and a stepdaughter, Arabella Neville Rolfe, all of London; and one grandchild.
        For very wistful customers with very deep pockets, Mr. Brooks-Baker's company occasionally offered blue blood for purchase. (A Scottish baronial title, land included, costs £50,000 to £100,000, according to the company's Web site.) As he told The New York Times in 1990, such a sought-after commodity came on the market only rarely.
        ''There are only three ways titles can be acquired,'' Mr. Brooks-Baker explained. ''Fighting a war, sex or buying.''
      