
        Dr. J. Donald M. Gass, an ophthalmologist whose keen observations led to diagnoses of previously undiscovered diseases of the retina, died last Saturday at his home in Nashville. He was 76.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Working at the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute at the University of Miami in the 1970's, Dr. Gass published what became a groundbreaking book on retinal diseases, particularly those of the macula, that part of the retina that allows for central vision (as opposed to peripheral).
        The book, ''Stereoscopic Atlas of Macular Diseases: Diagnosis and Treatment,'' describes several hundred congenital, infectious, age-related and inflammatory eye diseases. Illustrating those disorders with photographs and drawings, the work is widely known as Gass's Atlas and is now in its fourth edition.
        In preparing his book, Dr. Gass helped to pioneer the use of fluorescein angiography, a test that traces a vegetable dye injected into blood vessels within the retina, and so reveals signature patterns of leaking and blockage in those vessels.
        Dr. Gass used that test to characterize the often subtle differences among diseases, combining angiography with other observations in describing the wet form of macular degeneration and refining existing descriptions of other disorders.
        In an interview yesterday, Dr. John T. Flynn, vice chairman of Columbia University's department of ophthalmology, praised Dr. Gass's ''marvelous clinical acumen'' and said the success of the atlas could be attributed to the ''power of careful clinical description, supplemented by superb color images.''
        ''He set a standard of excellence against which all other ophthalmologists are measured,'' Dr. Flynn added. ''We are all students of Don Gass.''
        In 1967, Dr. Gass helped to describe the most common cause of vision impairment that may follow cataract surgery, a type of macular swelling now known as Irvine-Gass syndrome.
        He was also a pioneer in describing the causes of macular holes and at least four other macular disorders, said Dr. Carmen A. Puliafito, chairman of the Bascom Palmer institute. In the case of macular holes, Dr. Gass found that a stretching of the macula, and not necessarily a deterioration in the tissue, was largely to blame.
        Such findings of his were ''key observations that revolutionized the way we study and treat the macula,'' Dr. Puliafito said.
        John Donald MacIntyre Gass, the son of a physician, was born in the Canadian province of Prince Edward Island and as a child moved with his family to Nashville, where he received his bachelor's and medical degrees from Vanderbilt.
        After a residency at the Wilmer Eye Institute at Johns Hopkins, he moved to Bascom Palmer as an assistant professor of ophthalmology in 1963. He was named a professor there in 1972 and remained until he retired, in 1995. He then returned to Nashville and accepted an appointment at Vanderbilt, where he continued his research.
        Dr. Gass was elected chairman of the American Board of Ophthalmology in 1984. In recognition of his atlas and research, the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery selected him as one of the 10 most influential ophthalmologists of the 20th century.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Margy Ann; three sons, John, of Danville, Calif.; Dean, of Charlotte, N.C.; and Carlton, of Miami; a daughter, Media Lee Yawn of Nashville; a sister, Barbara Gass of Nashville; and five grandchildren.
      