
        William Murray, a versatile and prolific writer who divided his talents between Italy, principally as a contributor to the ''Letter from Italy'' column for The New Yorker magazine, and a series of mysteries set at a California racetrack, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in San Diego.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Alice, said.
        Mr. Murray was the son of Natalia Danesi Murray, an Italian singer, actress and publisher who became the lover of Janet Flanner, The New Yorker writer. His own first ambition was to become an opera singer. Failing at this, he took up writing and became a fiction editor at The New Yorker for a time and then for more than 30 years a staff writer there. He wrote admired books about Italy like ''The Last Italian: Portrait of a People'' (Prentice Hall, 1991).
        Another love being the Del Mar racetrack in California, he began his mystery series, featuring the prestidigitator Shifty Lou Anderson and his gambler sidekick, Jay Fox, with ''Tip on a Dead Crab'' (Viking, 1985). He added others, including ''When the Fat Man Sings'' (Bantam, 1987), ''The King of the Nightcap'' (Bantam, 1989) and ''I'm Getting Killed Right Here'' (Doubleday, 1991).
        In contrast to another racetrack novelist, Dick Francis, whose characters tend to be introspective, Mr. Murray offered a more objective view of racing, which he also wrote about in two nonfiction books, ''Horse Fever'' (Dodd, Mead, 1976) and ''The Wrong Horse: An Odyssey through the American Racing Scene'' (Simon & Schuster, 1992).
        Mr. Murray was born in New York City on April 8, 1926, the only child of William Murray, head of the New York branch of William Morris, the talent agency, and Ms. Danesi Murray, who acted on Broadway in the 1930's and later worked in publishingin New York for the Italian publisher Mondadori and then at Rizzoli.
        The two divorced in 1936. According to Mr. Murray's book ''Janet, My Mother, and Me: A Memoir of Growing up with Janet Flanner and Natalia Danesi Murray'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), Ms. Flanner helped to rear him during his teenage years.
        Mr. Murray spent a year at Harvard, then studied music in Italy from 1947 to 1952. In 1952 he married Doris Rogers. They had three children, Natalia Casemore, Julia Murray-Portugal and William Jr., all of Los Angeles. They divorced in 1972. In 1975 he married Alice Bigbee, who survives him, along with his children and two half brothers, Richard Murray, of New York City, and Michael Murray, of Stuart, Fla.
      