
        Simon Eisdorfer, a retired New York City police chief who developed the department's widely emulated hostage negotiation team, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Cedarhurst, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure, his granddaughter Jennifer Waitman said.
        The team came into being in the spring of 1973, months after a high-profile standoff in January in which armed robbers seized a dozen hostages at a Brooklyn sporting goods store, John & Al Sports. Several hostages were released and the rest escaped unharmed; the gunmen surrendered after 47 hours.
        Although one police officer was killed and two others were wounded at the start of the siege, the Police Department was widely praised for its handling of the incident, which had demonstrated the effectiveness of protracted negotiation over armed confrontation. It paved the way for Mr. Eisdorfer's plan for the team, which police officials called the first of its kind.
        Mr. Eisdorfer first conceived of his negotiating team in the summer of 1972, after 11 Israeli athletes were taken hostage and killed by terrorists at the Olympic Games in Munich. Then the commanding officer of the Police Department's special operations division, he realized that New York City was vulnerable to a similar emergency and ill equipped to deal with it.
        Simon Eisdorfer was born on the Lower East Side on June 14, 1917. He earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry from City College of New York in 1939 and planned a career as a chemist, but found that the only available job paid $10 a week. In 1942, he joined the police; after Army service during World War II, he returned to the department in 1945.
        Before Mr. Eisdorfer's negotiation team, police officers often stormed hostage takers.
        ''You'd kick in the door,'' Frank A. Bolz, a retired police captain who was for many years New York City's chief hostage negotiator, said in an interview yesterday. ''Or, 'You've got 10 minutes to come out, or we're throwing in tear gas.' And, unfortunately, people got killed. Cops got killed.''
        In developing the first formal guidelines for hostage negotiation, Mr. Eisdorfer de-emphasized confrontation, focusing instead on saving lives. Studying earlier cases, he realized that negotiators could subtly turn a siege into a waiting game that played out in their favor. Police officers could change shifts, but the suspects could not, and eventually became tired and hungry enough to surrender.
        In consultation with Harvey Schlossberg, a New York City police detective who became a clinical psychologist, Mr. Eisdorfer also abandoned the ploy, a staple of Hollywood crime dramas, of bringing in a suspect's wife or mother for a tearful entreaty. In reality, many hostage takings were triggered by the suspect's anger at family members, whose arrival on the scene could cause that anger to be taken out on the hostages.
        Police officials from around the country came to New York for training in hostage negotiation, and the methods put in place by Mr. Eisdorfer are still widely used today.
        At his retirement in 1978, Mr. Eisdorfer was the Police Department's chief of personnel; he was also an early chief of its Organized Crime Control Bureau. In 1976, he received the first Asser Levy Award, presented by the Shomrim Society, a fraternal organization of Jewish officers. The award honors service to the department and to the Jewish community.
        Mr. Eisdorfer is survived by his wife, the former Beatrice Feld, whom he married in 1941; a brother, Al, of Miami Lakes, Fla.; two children, Barbara Waitman and James, both of Manhattan; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      