
        Stanley H. Lowell, a former deputy mayor of New York City and the first chairman of the city's Civil Rights Commission, died on Wednesday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 85.
        The death was announced by his family.
        Mr. Lowell, a lawyer by profession, spent more than 50 years in public life and civic affairs. He was most recently of counsel to Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow, a firm dealing principally with securities, antitrust and consumer class actions.
        He had served as assistant to the borough president of Manhattan when in 1954 the newly elected mayor, Robert F. Wagner, took him on as his executive assistant and liaison to civic groups and community organizations. Four years later he briefly became deputy mayor; in that job, he persuaded a very reluctant Mr. Wagner to have a talk with Joseph Papp and give his blessing to Papp's free Shakespeare in the Park.
        It was Mr. Lowell, who had already made a name for himself as a civil rights advocate, who marshaled city resources to provide the necessary logistics for that venture. (After Mr. Papp's death, in 1991, Mr. Lowell succeeded him for a time as president of the New York Shakespeare Festival, one of his last public jobs.)
        After his stint as deputy mayor in 1958, Mr. Lowell returned to private practice for a time. In 1960 he was named chairman of the city's Commission on Human Rights, a post he kept through 1965. He also served as the United States public delegate to the international human rights conferences in Madrid and Helsinki.
        Mr. Lowell was a longtime supporter of the UJA-Federation of New York and served on its board from 1962 to 1994. In the 1970's he was a leader in the National Conference on Soviet Jewry and chairman of the Greater New York Conference on Soviet Jewry.
        Stanley Herbert Lowell was born on April 13, 1919, to Isidore and Mildred Lowenbraun. He graduated from City College in 1939 and received his LL.B. degree from Harvard in 1942. As a young law partner, in 1944, he wrote an American Civil Liberties Union brief in a United States Supreme Court case that resulted in the outlawing of all-white primary elections in Texas.
        Later, he became an assistant United States attorney overseeing the Alien Enemy Control Program in the New York area from 1945 to 1947. He entered city government in 1950 to work for the Manhattan borough president.
        A Democrat, he was a delegate to the three national conventions of the 1960's and sat on the executive panel of the Democratic State Committee from 1960 to 1968. He was trustee-at-large and vice president of the Jewish Community Relations Council from 1982 to 2000.
        In the 1970's he was a co-founder of the Committee on Public Higher Education, later renamed Friends of CUNY, a group that defended open admissions, remedial instruction and keeping tuition costs low. He was co-chairman in 1998.
        Mr. Lowell is survived by his wife of 30 years, Leona; three children from a previous marriage, Jeffrey, of Prospect, Conn., Darcy, of Weston, Conn., and Lauri Lowell of Hamden, Conn.; two stepsons, Barry Schaevitz of Manhattan and Scott Schaevitz of Bedford, N.Y.; and eight grandsons. His first marriage, to Vivian Abrams Lowell, a resident of Manhattan, ended in divorce.
      