
        Kenzo Tange, the Japanese architect who converted the core of a barren Hiroshima into a tranquil peace park in the 1940's and 50's, and designed Tokyo's starkly modernist St. Mary's Cathedral in 1964 -- where his funeral is to be held -- died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. He was 91.
        The cause was heart failure, The Associate Press reported, citing a spokesman for Mr. Tange's architectural firm.
        Although he designed buildings throughout the world, he was perhaps best known for his work in Japan, including the massive New Tokyo City Hall (1991), housing 13,000 bureaucrats; the Fuji television building (1996), two towers linked by earthquake-proof pedestrian bridges; and two sports arenas for the Tokyo Olympics in 1964.
        Mr. Tange was an admirer of both Le Corbusier and traditional Japanese architecture, and his early work synthesized the two. His Olympic arenas, whose swooping suspended roofs are often described as among the most beautiful structures of the 20th century, also evoke the simplicity of archaic temple forms.
        In awarding Mr. Tange the Pritzker Prize -- architecture's highest honor -- in 1987, an international jury acknowledged this duality. ''Tange arrives at shapes that lift our hearts,'' the citation said, ''because they seem to emerge from some ancient and dimly remembered past and yet are breathtakingly of today.''
        The Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima features a one-story exposed-concrete museum designed by Mr. Tange atop short pillars, flanked by two other buildings housing an auditorium, hotel, exhibition gallery, library, offices and conference center. The structures frame a public square in which up to 50,000 people can congregate around the peace memorial -- an arched concrete cenotaph -- commemorating the 200,000 victims of the August 1945 atomic bomb attack by the United States.
        His 1960 Tokyo Plan, a large-scale urban design that includes an assembly hall, civic plaza, park and two towers, introduced innovative strategies for extending the city out over the bay with a web of bridges, viaducts, man-made islands and floating parking.
        Over the next decade, Mr. Tange was instrumental in advancing the Metabolist school of urban design, which proposed linear coastal cities, floating structures and buildings with endlessly replaceable components as solutions for Japan's urban congestion.
        Among his urban design projects abroad were plans for the Fiera district of Bologna and for a new town with residences for 60,000 people in Catania, Italy.
        In Singapore, he designed the Overseas Union Bank and the Nanyang Technological Institute, both in 1986, the Singapore Indoor Stadium in 1989 and the Singapore National Library in 1998.
        His only completed project in the United States was a 1974 expansion of the Minneapolis arts complex that nearly doubled the space of the original building, a 1911 neo-Classical structure by McKim, Mead & White, by adding large symmetrical wings.
        In accepting the Pritzker Prize in 1987, Mr. Tange said he had wrestled with how to reconcile a bold future with a respect for the past without indulging in the historical pastiche that was in vogue at the time. ''Postmodernism is no more than a mere eclectic mixture of aesthetic elements -- modern and ancient, or Eastern and Western -- that have already reached an impasse,'' he said in his speech. ''My belief is that at present Postmodernism has not found, but must find a way out of that impasse. And since I myself am seeking a clue, even a very small one, that will shed a little light on an answer, I know the task is not easy.''
        Kenzo Tange was born in 1913 in Osaka. After graduating from the University of Tokyo's architecture department in 1938, he worked for four years in the office of Kunio Maekawa, an important disciple of Le Corbusier.
        In 1942, Mr. Tange entered graduate school at the University of Tokyo, where he studied city planning. Four years later, he became an assistant professor there and organized the Tange Laboratory, where he advised young associates including Sachio Otani, Takashi Asada, Taneo Oki, Fumihiko Maki, Koji Kamiya, Arata Isozaki and Kisho Kurokawa.
        Mr. Tange's design for the Hiroshima peace park was selected in 1949. In 1951, he presented his ideas about the Hiroshima core at the International Congress of Modern Architecture (CIAM) in London, where he exchanged views with Le Corbusier, Walter Gropius, Jose Luis Sert and other established modernists.
        In Mr. Tange's 1959 doctoral thesis, ''Spatial Structure in a Large City,'' he sought to analyze urban structure on the basis of commuting patterns.
        Two years later he established Kenzo Tange + Urtec, which later became Kenzo Tange Associates. He was a professor of urban engineering at the University of Tokyo from 1963 to 1974, when he retired as professor emeritus.
        He went on to teach as a guest professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and as a lecturer at Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Washington University, Illinois Institute of Technology, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Alabama and the University of Toronto.
        Among his other important projects were the architectural design for the Osaka Expo '70 -- with constructions like a giant space frame, known as the Theme Pavilion -- and the Festival Plaza, completed in late 1966.
        The Yamanishi Press and Broadcasting Center, completed in 1967, used many of Mr. Tange's innovative elements: staircases housed in cylinders and open spaces between floors, which were used as terraces but could be enclosed when needed.
        But Mr. Tange may be best remembered for his transformation of Hiroshima from a ravaged wasteland into a tranquil place of contemplation. In a personal statement for his Web site, he said: ''I feel very fortunate to have witnessed the transformation of Japan from war-devastation to the affluence of today.''
        But he argued against extolling the present, stressing the need for constant change. ''I do not wish to repeat what I have done,'' he said. ''I find that every project is a springboard to the next, always advancing forward from the past to the ever-changing future. That is my next challenge.''
        Correction:  April 11, 2005, Monday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on March 23 about the Japanese architect Kenzo Tange overstated the death toll in the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, for which he later designed a peace park. And an unrelated picture caption on March 11 about a ceremony marking the 60th anniversary of an American air raid on Tokyo gave an understated Hiroshima toll in a comparison of the numbers killed in the two actions.
        Scholars have reached a loose consensus in recent decades that roughly 140,000 people perished in the bombing of Hiroshima and its aftermath -- not 200,000, as reported in the obituary, or fewer than 100,000, as the caption said.
        The obituary also referred incorrectly to Mr. Tange's addition to the Minneapolis Art Museum. It was not his only project in the United States; he designed the American Medical Association headquarters building in Chicago in 1990 and played a role in urban planning designs for Yerba Buena Gardens in San Francisco and for Baltimore's Inner Harbor.
      