
        James Biddle, a leader in preserving America's homes and landscapes of historic value, including Andalusia, his family's 19th-century estate near Philadelphia, died at home there yesterday. He was 75.
        He died in his sleep of natural causes, his family said.
        As president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, Mr. Biddle, known as Jimmy, defended architectural landmarks like Grand Central Terminal and the original exterior of the United States Capitol.
        Years earlier, he was instrumental in raising the money to save Olana, the Moorish manor perched above the Hudson River that was built by the artist Frederic Edwin Church.
        ''We Americans must decide if we want to preserve what we have or if we just want to pave it over, high-rise it and factory it,'' he wrote in Travel Leisure magazine in 1972.
        In his 12 years at the National Trust, the organization reached beyond the East Coast to designate historic sites as far away as California, and it began awarding grants and loans to support neighborhood preservation projects. When he left in 1980, the trust's membership had grown to 150,000, from 13,000.
        Mr. Biddle was previously a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. There he expanded the American Wing's collection to include pieces from not only Colonial era but also from the 19th century on, acquiring elaborately carved furniture by John Henry Belter.
        ''He had a great sense for domestic spaces,'' said Morrison H. Heckscher, chairman of the American Wing. ''He had a tremendous sense of design, and he was particularly noted for the way he could put together a room.''
        Mr. Biddle's expertise in historical furnishings was sought by first ladies Jacqueline Kennedy and Lady Bird Johnson, by President Richard M. Nixon in assembling a team to coordinate the country's bicentennial celebration, and by committees in charge of renovating governors' mansions.
        Enamored of the home, he often expressed his hope that some historical landmarks would remain occupied rather than simply becoming museums.
        He embraced that ideal by restoring and preserving the 100-acre estate acquired in 1814 by his great-great-grandfather, the financier Nicholas Biddle. Andalusia, which sits along the Delaware River, remains a 19th-century tribute to ancient Greek architecture and a repository of antique French, English and American furniture and draperies. A national historic landmark, it is open to the public by appointment.
        Mr. Biddle was born at Andalusia on July 8, 1929. He attended St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and graduated from Princeton, where he studied art and archaeology. He served in an intelligence unit of the Army during the Korean War.
        In 1955, he joined the Met as a curatorial assistant. He became associate curator of the American Wing in 1961 and curator in 1963.
        He left in 1967 to lead the National Trust until 1980, when he became a consultant to Sotheby Parke Bernet and chairman of the National Preservation Institute.
        He is survived by two daughters, Letitia C. and Pamela C.; a son, James C.; and seven grandchildren. His marriage to Louisa C. Duemling ended in divorce.
      