
        Katherine A. Lathrop, a pioneering researcher in nuclear medicine and a member of a University of Chicago team that developed an isotope widely used to locate and diagnose cancers, died on March 10 at a nursing home in Las Cruces, N.M. She was 89.
        The cause was advanced dementia, her family said.
        A versatile scientist with degrees in biology, chemistry and physics, Ms. Lathrop was named a professor of radiology at Chicago, where she taught for four decades, without having received a doctorate.
        In 1945 and 1946, she participated in the Manhattan Project as a junior chemist in the metallurgical laboratory in Chicago, studying the effects of radioactive materials on animals. Later, as part of a research effort led by Dr. Paul V. Harper, she investigated the qualities of technetium, a radioactive element discovered in the 1930's.
        Ms. Lathrop and the Chicago team experimented with an isotope, technetium 99m, by injecting it into a patient's bloodstream and then tracing its path through the brain, heart, kidney, liver and other organs.
        A scan of the isotope, also called a radionuclide or radiotracer, yielded images to help diagnose and record the size and growth of cancers and other tumors. Dr. Harper's team also found technetium was less radioactive and had a shorter half-life than many other isotopes, and was therefore less dangerous to patients. A scanning system for technetium was perfected in 1963 and was used to perform a successful brain scan. The isotope remains in clinical use worldwide and is often used to scan bones.
        Dr. Robert Beck, an emeritus professor of radiology at Chicago and a member of Dr. Harper's team, recalled that Ms. Lathrop was ''an indispensable part of Paul Harper's team.''
        Dr. Beck added, ''After that initial successful scan, the field of nuclear medicine took a major and continuing upward turn.''
        Katherine Gray Austin was born in Lawton, Okla. She graduated from Oklahoma State University, where she also received a master's degree in chemistry in 1939.
        Ms. Lathrop was appointed an associate biochemist at the Argonne National Laboratory, where she worked from 1947 to 1954. She next joined the staff of the Argonne Cancer Research Hospital, now the Franklin McLean Memorial Research Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Chicago. In 1978, she was appointed professor of radiology at Chicago, a position she held until retiring in 1985.
        Ms. Lathrop served as chairwoman of the Society of Nuclear Medicine's Medical Internal Radiation Dose Committee from 1977 to 1984.
        Ms. Lathrop lived in Hyde Park, Ill., before moving to Las Cruces last year.
        She is survived by a son, Dr. David Lathrop, a physiologist at the National Institutes of Health, of Gaithersburg, Md.; three daughters, Laura Fowler of Santa Fe, N.M., Jane Grider of Las Cruces and Julia Smiddy of Valparaiso, Ind.; a sister, Billie Carol Austin of Denver; a brother, John C. Austin of Duncan, Okla.; 10 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      