
        Redmond A. Simonsen, an early maker of strategic board games that scaled some of history's great battles down to table size and helped propel the amateur war games craze of the 1970's, died last Wednesday in Garland, Tex. He was 62 and lived in Richardson, Tex.
        The cause was heart failure, his nephew Jim Nash said.
        With a partner, James F. Dunnigan, Mr. Simonsen founded Simulations Publications Inc., known as S.P.I., in New York in 1969. Among the company's best-known games were Great Medieval Battles; Great Battles of the American Civil War; Red Star/White Star, about a hypothetical Soviet offensive in Europe; and The East Is Red, which imagined a war between the Soviet Union and China.
        Played on oversize boards depicting terrain maps, the games let players simulate battlefield tactics. Until the advent of the personal computer, they were hugely popular with a certain type of consumer: young, male and pocket-protected.
        As S.P.I.'s vice president and art director, Mr. Simonsen standardized the look of the games, fitting historically accurate, visually comprehensible information into small spaces. The company's earliest game boards were black and white, with playing pieces (there might be several hundred) that had to be glued onto shirt cardboard and cut out by hand. The games were soon produced in full color, with die-cut pieces ready to punch out.
        Redmond Aksel Simonsen was born in Manhattan on June 18, 1942, to Norwegian-American parents. He earned a bachelor of fine arts degree from the Cooper Union in 1964 and afterward worked as a graphic designer of book jackets, album covers and advertisements.
        S.P.I. began in the summer of 1969, when Mr. Simonsen and Mr. Dunnigan took over Strategy and Tactics, a gaming magazine. Mr. Simonsen redesigned the magazine, including in each issue a complete game, plus a historical article about the battle it simulated. The company released more than 400 games in a little more than a decade, and by the mid-1970's, Mr. Dunnigan said, it manufactured more than half of all the war games sold worldwide. It also produced science fiction and fantasy games, several of which Mr. Simonsen designed.
        By the early 1980's, war games played with paper and cardboard were on the wane; the pocket protector set was going digital. In 1982, S.P.I. was taken over by TSR Inc., makers of the Dungeons and Dragons role-playing game. In later years, Mr. Simonsen worked in computer-game design and as a technology writer.
        Mr. Simonsen is survived by a sister, Lois K. Simonsen Nash, of Centennial, Colo.; four nieces and two nephews.
      