
        Dr. George F. Crikelair, a pioneering plastic surgeon at Columbia University who in the 1960's became a leading advocate of fire-resistant coatings for children's sleepwear, died last Thursday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 84.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Crikelair was a practitioner as well as a teacher, and directed the plastic surgery service at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1959 to 1977.
        In the late 1950's, he noted a pattern among patients, many of them children, who had received severe injuries from burning clothing, often untreated cotton sleepwear. Based on his observations, Dr. Crikelair was named to a national advisory committee that helped draft and promote the federal Flammable Fabrics Act, which was ratified in 1972 and set safety standards for certain fabrics.
        Dr. Stanley Klatsky, an associate professor of plastic surgery at Johns Hopkins University, said Dr. Crikelair had been spurred by ''the magnitude of the burns from clothing, burns that often exceeded 50 percent of the body, burns that were certainly life-threatening.''
        Dr. Klatsky, a former student of Dr. Crikelair's, added: ''Crikelair was one of a handful who at that time controlled plastic surgery education in this country. Through his influence, many potential burn victims were saved.''
        Working in an era before cosmetic surgery was commonplace, Dr. Crikelair was a reconstructive surgeon who repaired cleft lips and palates, removed tumors and lesions, and ''operated on everything from the top of the head to the bottom of the feet,'' Dr. Klatsky said.
        The son of a general practitioner, George Francis Crikelair was born in Green Bay, Wis. He attended St. Norbert College and the University of Wisconsin, where he received his medical degree in 1944.
        After an initial appointment in surgery at Wayne State University, Dr. Crikelair joined Columbia in 1952 as an instructor in surgery. In 1960, he was named professor of clinical surgery, a title he held until retiring as a professor emeritus in 1977. He was affiliated with Harlem Hospital and Francis Delafield Hospital, both in New York City.
        From 1970 to 1971, Dr. Crikelair was chairman of the American Board of Plastic Surgery, and in 1971 the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons named him its president. He was a founder of the Information Council on Fabric Flammability.
        Dr. Crikelair was a former resident of Ridgewood, N.J. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Eleanor. The couple lived in Fort Lauderdale and in Riparius, N.Y.
        He is also survived by three sons, David, of Darien, Conn.; Thomas, of Bar Harbor, Me.; and the Rev. Paul, of Elverson, Pa.; three daughters, Amy Crikelair of Madison, Wis.; Carol Wood of Sparta, N.J.; and Mary Smith of Newton, N.J.; and 15 grandchildren.
      