
        Stanley Sadie, a musicologist, writer and editor whose prodigious output included editing the last two editions of the titanic and authoritative New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, died on Monday at his home in Cossington, England. He was 74.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Julie Anne Sadie.
        Mr. Sadie had spent three weeks at a hospital in London, but was intent on returning home in time for the first concert in a music series that he and his wife run in a church near their home. The concert, on Sunday evening, was an all-Beethoven program performed by the Chilingirian String Quartet. Mr. Sadie was able to stay for the first half, but felt unwell and went home to bed. At the conclusion of the performance, the quartet went to Mr. Sadie's house, set up quietly in his bedroom, and performed the slow movement of Beethoven's Quartet No. 16 in F (Op. 135) as he drifted in and out of sleep.
        Mr. Sadie made a thriving industry of musicology, a field that most people regard as the quiet province of tweedy researchers concerned with the arcana of distant eras. He so thoroughly remade the Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians -- the classic reference work, first published by Sir George Grove in 1878 -- that when its sixth edition was published in 1980, the word ''New'' was added to its title. Mr. Sadie had taken it from nine volumes to 20; and when the most recent edition was published in 2001, it had grown to 29 volumes, and was called the second edition of the New Grove rather than the seventh of Grove. In addition to covering the classical music world with greater depth, Mr. Sadie opened the work to articles on jazz, rock and world music.
        Mr. Sadie also vastly expanded the Grove franchise, editing not only a single-volume overview (The Grove Concise Dictionary of Music, 1988) and a series of biographies based on articles in the New Grove, but also a handful of spinoff encyclopedias in which topics explored in the New Grove were looked at more thoroughly as independent specialties. These include the New Grove Dictionary of Musical Instruments (three volumes, 1984), the New Grove Dictionary of American Music, which Mr. Sadie edited with H. Wiley Hitchcock (four volumes, 1986), and the New Grove Dictionary of Opera (four volumes, 1992).
        Stanley Sadie was born in London on Oct. 30, 1930, and studied music at Cambridge University, where he completed a bachelor's degree in 1953, a master's in 1957 and a doctorate in 1958. His doctoral thesis was a study of British chamber music from 1720 to 1790. He taught at the Trinity College of Music, in London, from 1957 to 1965, and began his reviewing career as a critic for The Times of London in 1964, and for the British recordings magazine Gramophone, in 1965. In 1967, he was appointed editor of the Musical Times, an important musicological journal that he oversaw for 20 years.
        He began editing the sixth edition of Grove in 1970, and also edited a series of short biographies in the Master Musicians series, starting in 1976. As an author, he published numerous studies of composers and their work, including ''Handel'' (1962), ''Mozart'' (1966), ''Handel Concertos'' (1972) and ''Mozart Symphonies'' (1986). In the 1990's, Mr. Sadie and his wife, who is also a musicologist, undertook a campaign to save and preserve the house where Handel lived in the Mayfair section of London. Their efforts led to the creation of the Handel House Museum.
        That gave the Sadies an interest in exploring other composers' homes; in recent years they visited 300 throughout Europe and collaborated on a guidebook, ''Calling on the Composer.'' It is to be published by Yale University Press in May.
        Mr. Sadie's final project was ''Mozart: The Early Years, 1756-1781,'' which is to be published by Norton in December. Mr. Sadie had hoped to cover Mozart's final decade in a second volume, but was unable to undertake it. His fascination with Mozart was, however, at least obliquely the subject of a collection of essays by a dozen of his colleagues, ''Words About Mozart: Essays in Honour of Stanley Sadie'' (Boydell Press), published this year.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Sadie is survived by three sons, Graham, of Cheltenham, England; Stephen, of Wachtendonk, Germany; and Matthew, of London; and two daughters, Ursula Payne, of Winchester, England; and Celia, of London; and a sister, Dr. Wendy Robertson, of Perth, Australia.
      