
        Naftali Halberstam, the grand rabbi of the Bobov Hasidic sect, who continued his father's efforts to rebuild a community nearly eradicated by the Holocaust, died on Wednesday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 74.
        The cause was apparently a lung problem, a spokeswoman for Dov Hikind, the state assemblyman who represents Borough Park and is closely allied to its Hasidic communities, said yesterday. Rabbi Halberstam had had a variety of health problems for the last several years, according to several members of the Brooklyn Bobover community.
        Descended from a rabbinic dynasty, Rabbi Halberstam became the Bobover Rebbe in 2000, after the death of his father, Grand Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam. Based in Borough Park, the Bobov are today one of the largest of Brooklyn's many Hasidic sects, comprising 1,800 to 2,000 families. There are also Bobover communities in Canada, England, Israel and elsewhere.
        A refugee from Hitler's Europe, Rabbi Halberstam settled in New York after World War II. There, he assisted his father in rebuilding the Bobov sect, which had been almost completely obliterated during the war.
        ''Naftali was in a sense the last family of that Holocaust generation,'' said Samuel Heilman, a distinguished professor of sociology at Queens College, in an interview yesterday. ''I think the best way of referring to him is, he lived in the shadow of his father. His father was such a larger-than-life figure, it's sort of like Isaac following Abraham. The most important contribution that he made was in terms of continuity.''
        Like other Hasidim, the Bobov practice an ecstatic brand of Judaism, born in Eastern Europe in the 18th century, that centers on a charismatic spiritual leader, often called a tzaddik (Hebrew for ''righteous one'') and on an individual's direct relationship with God. The sect originated in Bobov, a village in Galicia (now southeastern Poland), where Rabbi Halberstam's forebears established the dynasty.
        Mourning for the rabbi overlaps Purim, the holiday commemorating the deliverance of Persia's Jews. The Bobov are known for their elaborate celebrations of the holiday, which began last night.
        Naftali Halberstam was born in Poland in 1930. His mother and two siblings died in the Holocaust, and toward the end of the war, when Naftali was a teenager, his father secured passage for him to Palestine. Not knowing whether his father, who remained in Europe, had survived the war, Naftali lived for several years in Palestine, where he studied for the rabbinate. In the late 1940's, he moved to New York, where he was reunited with his father.
        Rabbi Halberstam is survived by his wife, Hessie; two daughters; and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren, according to members of his congregation.
        Although the next Bobover Rebbe has not been chosen, Rabbi Halberstam's younger half-brother, Rabbi Benzion Halberstam, is expected to succeed him, several members of the community said.
        ''Unlike what happens in royal families where they say, 'The king is dead; long live the king,' it is the Hasidim who in a sense have to agree upon the leader,'' said Professor Heilman, the author of many books on Judaism. ''A lot will depend upon if there are any 'pretenders to the throne.' I don't think that's going to happen.''
        Correction:  March 26, 2005, Saturday
        A Correction: Naftali Halberstam
        Naftali Halberstam, grand rabbi of the Bobov Hasidic sect, who died at 74 on Wednesday. He is shown in his synagogue in Brooklyn in 2003, on the occasion of a grandchild's wedding. A picture of a cousin, also Rabbi Naftali Halberstam, appeared erroneously with his obituary yesterday. (Photo by Sender Schwartz/UMI, 2003)
        Correction:  March 26, 2005, Saturday  A picture yesterday with the obituary of Naftali Halberstam, grand rabbi of the Bobov Hasidic sect in Brooklyn, was published in error. It showed a cousin of his, also Rabbi Naftali Halberstam. A picture of the late grand rabbi appears today, on Page C6.
      