
        Ted Rand, a largely self-taught graphic artist who illustrated nearly 80 children's books after reaching retirement age, died Saturday at his home on Mercer Island, Wash. He was 89.
        The cause was cancer, said Gloria Rand, his wife and collaborator on a dozen of those books.
        Mr. Rand, who started drawing as a boy in Seattle, made a name for himself doing portraits and earned a living with advertising illustrations. That job led to an invitation from the children's book writer Bill Martin Jr. to work with him; their long collaboration resulted in ''The Ghost-Eye Tree'' (Henry Holt, 1985) and other books.
        Among Mr. Rand's most recent credits was the acclaimed ''If Not for the Cat'' (Greenwillow, 2004), a collection of haiku about animals by the poet Jack Prelutsky. Another book is scheduled for publication this fall by Holt: ''A Pen Pal for Max,'' written by Gloria Rand about a Chilean boy who finds a friend through a note he leaves in a box of grapes.
        Gloria Rand started writing children's books not long after Ted Rand began to illustrate them. Their first book together was ''Salty Dog'' (Holt, 1989), about a dog taking the ferry to his owner's boat shop all by himself. That collaboration remains in print, along with ''Mary Was a Little Lamb'' (Holt, 2004), ''Sailing Home: A Story of a Childhood at Sea'' (North-South Books, 2001), ''Fighting for the Forest'' (Holt, 1999), and ''Willie Takes a Hike'' (Harcourt, 1996).
        Theodore Rand was born in Seattle and spent four years as a naval aviator in the South Pacific in World War II. He briefly attended Cornish College of the Arts in Seattle before a year of tramping around the world.
        His portraits and landscapes have been widely exhibited and collected, but he kept working as a graphic artist for department stores and as a member of a partnership, Graphic Studios, which he helped found in the 1950's. He also taught illustration at the University of Washington.
        Besides Gloria Kistler Rand, his wife of 56 years, he is survived by a daughter, Theresa Rand Schaller of Fall City, Wash.; a son, Martin L., of Bellevue, Wash.; and three grandchildren.
      