
        Czeslaw Slania, a master engraver who applied his art most extensively to the tiniest works, postage stamps, died in Stockholm on March 17, the Swedish post office announced Monday. He was 83.
        Mr. Slania emigrated from Poland to Sweden more than four decades ago and became the country's royal court engraver.
        In a career that stretched from forging documents for the underground in German-occupied Poland in World War II to engraving portraits of monarchs and movie stars, Mr. Slania produced more than 1,000 stamps for 32 countries or postal jurisdictions, including the United States, Britain, France, Germany and China; his American commissions included two 1993 stamps that commemorated Grace Kelly and Dean Acheson. He also produced banknotes for 10 countries.
        In his spare time, he did portraits of sweetly smiling movie stars and manly boxers for his own amusement, and for income; he would sell a stamplike label showing Marilyn Monroe for as much as $50.
        With modern printing methods, engraving is a fading art, and few countries still engrave stamps or currency. An engraver uses a tool called a graver or burin to cut a mirror image in a steel plate, with deep cuts for heavy inking and shallow cuts for shading. The plate, its cuts full of ink, is pressed onto the paper being printed, leaving a slightly raised image that can be felt with a fingertip. For stamps, the artist's work area is about one inch square.
        Czeslaw Slania (pronounced CHESS-wav SWAH-nya) was born in southern Poland on Oct. 22, 1921, to a poor mining family. He showed artistic skills as a teenager, drawing fake banknotes to sell at craft fairs.
        The invasion by Nazi Germany in 1939 forced him to quit his high school studies in Krakow, and he joined the underground, for which he helped forge documents.
        After the war he went on to study engraving at the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow, later joining the Polish state printing office. His first work was a portion of the stamp issued for the Polish Peace Congress in August 1950, and by 1956 he had worked on almost 50 Polish stamps.
        Not all his work reflected the Socialist Realist style common under Communism, and Mr. Slania often left secret marks on his works that could be seen only with a powerful magnifying glass. On a stamp showing a library shelf, for example, he cut the names of friends into the spines of the books.
        Life under Communism proved unsatisfying, and in 1956, when a cruise ship on which he was traveling stopped in Stockholm, he asked for political asylum.
        Mr. Slania found jobs scarce in Stockholm: engraving was not a growth industry even then. But in 1959 the chief engraver suddenly fell ill, and when Mr. Slania filled in and completed an assignment very quickly, he was hired full time.
        His body of work spread around the world. He reached his thousandth stamp in in 2000 with a Swedish issue showing a detail of the painting ''Great Deeds by Swedish Kings.'' The stamp, which measures 81 by 61 millimeters (about 3.2 inches by 2.4 inches), is said to be the largest steel-engraved stamp ever issued.
        By then, Communism was a thing of the past in Poland, and it was there that Mr. Slania created No. 1,001. He remained active into his 80's; his last work was a United Nations stamp released last month for its 60th anniversary.
        No immedate family members are known.
        Correction:  March 29, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday of Czeslaw Slania, a master engraver of stamps and banknotes, omitted a survivor. She is a daughter, Olivia, of London.
      