
        J. William Littler, a surgeon who developed many techniques for restoring function and sensation to the fingers and wrist, died on Sunday in Providence, R.I. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan.
        His death followed a head injury suffered in a fall, his family said.
        Dr. Littler's early devotion to hand surgery contributed to its emergence as a separate discipline. During World War II, as a young surgeon in the Army, he operated on maimed soldiers at Cushing General Hospital, near Boston, and later at Valley Forge Army Hospital in Pennsylvania. Though he had yet to complete his residency training, he began shaping and refining surgical techniques still in use today.
        He worked on new ways to reconstruct missing thumbs, including replacing them with parts of forefingers, and he transplanted healthy bundles of nerves and arteries to areas that had lost feeling, a procedure known as a sensory neurovascular island transfer. To revive arms and hands paralyzed by nerve damage, he transferred tendons from areas that were unharmed.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Littler founded the hand surgery unit at what is now St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, a teaching hospital of Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons. Now called the C.V. Starr Hand Surgery Center, the unit was the first to devote itself to civilian hand injuries, according to the hospital. Hundreds of hand surgeons trained there under Dr. Littler.
        James William Littler was born in Manlius, N.Y., near Syracuse, on Oct. 7, 1915, and received his bachelor's degree and medical degree at Duke University. After a medical internship at Johns Hopkins Hospital, he enlisted in the Army.
        He then completed residencies in general surgery at The Roosevelt Hospital and plastic surgery at Presbyterian Hospital, now part of NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia. In 1946, he helped found the American Society for Surgery of the Hand and was its president from 1962 to 1963.
        His survivors include a daughter, Anne, of Paradise Valley, Nev., and a brother, Ted, of Providence. His family also listed his longtime secretary, Joyce Jones Welles, among his survivors.
      