
        Morris Engel, the New York photographer and filmmaker whose 1953 film, ''The Little Fugitive,'' established a model for independent moviemaking that influenced directors like John Cassavetes and François Truffaut, died Saturday at his home on Central Park West. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, Andy Engel.
        ''The Little Fugitive'' tells the story of a 7-year-old Brooklyn boy, played by Richie Andrusco, who mistakenly believes he has killed his older brother and runs away to hide at Coney Island. The movie was made on a budget of $30,000 using a lightweight 35-millimeter camera that Mr. Engel had developed with a friend, Charlie Woodruff. The small, unobtrusive camera allowed Mr. Engel to film his tale with an intimacy and realism that seemed revolutionary in a time when the Hollywood dream factory was functioning at its fantastic height.
        The simple, disarming film, with its street-level views of ordinary New Yorkers going about their lives, proved to have an international appeal. It won the Silver Lion at the 1953 Venice Film Festival, and its story, by Mr. Engel, his soon-to-be wife, Ruth Orkin, and Ray Ashley, a journalist who had been a colleague of Mr. Engel's at the newspaper PM, was nominated for an Academy Award in 1954.
        The movie's success encouraged other young filmmakers to circumvent the Hollywood system and finance their own resolutely personal films. In 1957, the young actor John Cassavetes borrowed $40,000 to make ''Shadows,'' a partly improvised drama whose success opened the door to other New York independent filmmakers.
        In 1959, the French film critic François Truffaut drew on Mr. Engel's childhood themes and production techniques to create ''The 400 Blows,'' the film that introduced the French New Wave. ''Our New Wave would never have come into being if it hadn't been for the young American Morris Engel, who showed us the way to independent production with his fine movie, 'Little Fugitive,''' Mr. Truffaut later told Lillian Ross in an interview for The New Yorker.
        Born in Brooklyn in 1918, Mr. Engel took courses as a teenager at the Photo League, a cooperative founded by a group of socially engaged photographers, where one his teachers was Berenice Abbott. He had his first show at the New School for Social Research in 1939, worked briefly for PM and then entered the Navy, where as a combat photographer he covered the Normandy landing. After the war, Mr. Engel became a busy photojournalist, working for a wide range of publications including McCall's and Collier's.
        With Ms. Orkin, herself a gifted photographer, Mr. Engel made two more independent features: ''Lovers and Lollipops'' (1956), about a small girl struggling with the idea of her widowed mother's remarriage, and ''Weddings and Babies'' (1958), an autobiographical study of a photographer whose artistic ambitions are thwarted by his fiancée's dreams of domesticity. Neither enjoyed the success of ''The Little Fugitive.''
        Mr. Engel returned to his work as a commercial photographer and did not make another feature until ''I Need a Ride to California'' in 1968, a drama about East Village hippies that remains unreleased. Later in life, he worked on video documentaries, including ''A Little Bit Pregnant'' (1993) and ''Camelia'' (1998).
        ''He was a street photographer his whole life,'' said his daughter, Mary Engel. ''Through the 90's, he shot wide, color panoramas of the streets that have never really been exhibited, and we are working on that.'' The writer-director Joanna Lipper recently shot a remake of ''The Little Fugitive,'' which Ms. Engel co-produced.
        Besides his son and daughter, Mr. Engel is survived by two sisters, Pearl Russell and Helen Siemianowski, and a grandson. Ms. Orkin died in 1985.
      