
        Bartolo Mascarello, a Barolo winemaker whose enduring adherence to traditional practices in the face of changing fashions made him a symbol of staunch loyalty, died Saturday at his home in the town of Barolo, Italy. He was 78.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Maria-Téresa. She said Mr. Mascarello had had heart problems for many years.
        Italian winemaking underwent profound changes in the last 40 years, but Mr. Mascarello refused to swim with the tide. In the small winery underneath the town house in which he lived, he clung tenaciously to the methods of his forebears, who taught him how to make wine.
        ''I'm loyal to the tradition of my father and my grandfather,'' he said in an interview in 2003. ''I don't want to throw that away to make wine as they make it in Australia and Chile and Sicily.''
        For years, Mr. Mascarello's unyielding stance branded him as a has-been among some of his peers and Italian wine critics. But in the late 1990's, the trends began to turn back his way, and his wines began to receive critical acclaim.
        ''We never went with the trends, and we suffered,'' said Ms. Mascarello, who assisted her father for many years. ''The press would speak well of them and attack us as people who couldn't keep up with the times.''
        Barolo is produced from the nebbiolo grape in the hills of Langhe, in the Piedmont region of northwestern Italy. Unlike cabernet sauvignon, chardonnay or pinot noir, which produce fine wines all over the world, nebbiolo refuses to flourish anywhere else.
        In their youth, Barolo and its sibling wine, Barbaresco, are classically austere and tannic. But as they age, the tannins soften, releasing gorgeous, earthy flavors often described as tar, licorice, truffles, violets and roses. This evolution sometimes requires a decade or more.
        In the last third of the 20th century, many Barolo producers sought to speed up this process. Traveling around the world, they tasted other wines, and noted the public's taste for softer, fruitier wines that were enjoyable at an earlier age. They adopted the techniques of the French and the Americans, spurning the traditional botti, or big barrels, in favor of barriques, the French term for small oak barrels, which impart a more supple tannin.
        Mr. Mascarello, though, refused to change. His wines always need time to develop, but they become Barolo in its purest form.
        In recent years, Mr. Mascarello's little town house was a destination for visitors from all over the world. Sitting in a wheelchair, he would offer his philosophy, which he boiled down to a mantra: ''No barriques, no California, no cabernet, no chardonnay, no wines with made-up names.''
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Mascarello is survived by his wife, Franca. Maria-Téresa Mascarello says she will continue to make the wines under the Bartolo Mascarello label just as her father did.
      