
        James Callaghan, the elder statesman of the British Labor Party whose three years as prime minister were marked by the infamous ''Winter of Discontent'' and its tumultuous battles with the country's powerful labor unions, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Saturday, the eve of his 93rd birthday, a family spokeswoman told reporters.
        Mr. Callaghan became prime minister in 1976, but by only the slimmest of margins, his power dependent on an uneasy alliance of expedience with the Liberal Democratic Party.
        Facing agitation from the Labor left and mounting challenges from the Conservative opposition, he also had to confront a host of the problems that beset the country in the frigid winter of 1978-79. With much of organized labor out on strike, the country all but shut down. Hospitals closed, transportation networks were paralyzed, and garbage rotted on the streets. In some cases, the dead even went unburied.
        In a woeful political miscalculation, the prime minister flew home from an ill-timed world summit meeting in sunny Guadeloupe to face Britain's ravening news media. Asked what he intended to do about the ''mounting chaos'' in the country, he answered, ''I don't think that other people in the world would share the view that there is mounting chaos.''
        The Sun's headline the next day -- ''Crisis? What Crisis?'' -- helped cement public opinion against Mr. Callaghan. On March 28, 1979, the government lost a no-confidence vote, by 311 votes to 310. In the ensuing general election, Labor was routed by the Conservatives, producing a new Tory prime minister, Margaret Thatcher.
        The party was returned to power only in 1997, with Tony Blair and his center-right ''New Labor'' movement.
        But the political career of Mr. Callaghan -- he became Baron Callaghan of Cardiff when he was made a life peer in 1987 -- was long and varied. In the 1960's and 1970's, he held three top ministerial positions in Labor governments, serving as chancellor of the exchequer, as home secretary and as foreign secretary.
        And losing the premiership and the leadership of the Labor Party, he was a member of Parliament and then of the House of Lords. He argued that the party had to shake off its ties to the far left and seek a more tempered middle ground in order to regain power.
        As news of his death circulated late Saturday, both allies and political enemies praised him lavishly. Mr. Blair said he was ''one of the giants of the Labor movement.'' For her part, Baroness Thatcher called him ''a superb political opponent'' and said, ''Despite our disagreements, I always respected him because I knew he was moved by deep patriotism.''
        Leonard James Callaghan was born March 27, 1912, in Portsmouth, south England. Educated in part at a state-run school, he spent part of his childhood in Brixham, in Devon. His father, a chief petty officer in the Royal Navy, died when James was 10, leaving a tiny pension and a family on the edge of poverty.
        His education ended when he was 17. (Years later, when he heard he had been voted Labor Party leader, he reportedly exclaimed to a friend, ''Just imagine, and me not a university man!'') He took a lowly job in a local income tax office in 1929 but became a union official, honing his skills at negotiation and debate. He enlisted in the Royal Navy in 1942, rose to the rank of lieutenant, and was elected the member of Parliament for Cardiff South in Labor's landslide victory of 1945.
        He was known as ''Sunny Jim,'' for his easy-going avuncularity, but he could have a fierce temper and a biting tongue.
        Opting not to join Labor's radical ''Keep Left'' group, Mr. Callaghan began to develop a reputation as a pragmatist and consensus-builder.
        In 1951, he stoutly defended rearmament, arguing that it would help Britain stand up to the Soviet Union.
        After Labor's 1951 defeat, Mr. Callaghan set about consolidating his power inside the party, but in 1963, he was beaten by Harold Wilson in the race for the party leadership. When Labor returned to power in 1964, Mr. Wilson, then prime minister, put Mr. Callaghan in charge of economic policy as chancellor of the exchequer.
        His three years in the post were marked by debates over what to do about the strong pound, seen as responsible for the inability of British industry to compete abroad. After three years of repeated monetary crises, the Wilson government finally and reluctantly devalued the currency, to $2.40 a pound from $2.80.
        The move was a crisis for Mr. Callaghan. But Prime Minister Wilson insisted that there could be ''no question of a symbolic sacrifice,'' and persuaded him to become home secretary.
        In 1969, in an effort to address the rising tide of sectarian violence between Roman Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland, Mr. Callaghan ordered British troops onto the streets of Belfast for the first time.
        His tenure as foreign secretary, from 1974 to 1976, was dominated by the government's successful renegotiation of the terms of Britain's membership in the Common Market, an early incarnation of the European Union, terms that the Conservatives had accepted but that many in Labor opposed. When Mr. Wilson resigned in 1976, Mr. Callaghan was poised to replace him.
        As prime minister, Mr. Callaghan boosted Britain's international profile by establishing good relationships with the American president, Jimmy Carter, and the German chancellor, Helmut Schmidt. But at home, inflation was soaring, and wages were depressed. The government imposed strict spending cuts.
        In the fall of 1978, Mr. Callaghan was widely expected to call a national election, but he decided against it, ensuring that Labor would bear the brunt of the ensuing terrible winter.
        Having lost the 1979 election, he lost the party leadership the next year. But he remained in the thick of the debate over the party's direction: should it go left, or move right? Many of his arguments made him bitterly unpopular with Labor's left, which he blamed for the party's inability to inspire the country's trust.
        ''The crisis in the Labor Party is caused by small, single-minded (and narrow-minded) groups which are operating inside it,'' he wrote in The Daily Mirror in 1981. ''Until they are decisively defeated, there will be no peace or unity within the party, and its standing with the voters will continue to decline.''
        When he was made Lord Callaghan in 1987, he chose as his motto, ''I'd rather labor than be idle.'' He was active in the House of Lords, speaking on arms control, on education and on the police,.
        He met his wife, Audrey, through the Baptist Church; they married in 1938. She died several weeks ago. They leave a son and two daughters, one of whom, Margaret, Baroness Jay, is a former leader of the House of Lords.
        Known for his devotion to his wife, Lord Callaghan was overhead once at a reception at No.10 Downing Street as he looked at all the finery. ''Don't forget, Tony,'' he said to Prime Minister Blair, ''when all this is gone, what really matters is the family.''
        Chris Moncrieff, a Press Association reporter who covered Mr. Callaghan for years, recalled his sharp tongue. On one Easter Day, he said, Mr. Callaghan, then prime minister, was confronted outside No.10 by camera crews that had set up their cables so as to force him to pause on his way out.
        ''Good morning, gentlemen,'' he said, smiling. ''A happy Easter to you all.''
        He held up a pair of scissors. ''And if you don't move those wires,'' he said cheerily, ''I'll snip them through with these scissors.''
        Correction:  April 11, 2005, Monday  An obituary of former Prime Minister James Callaghan of Britain on March 28 and in some late editions on March 27 misidentified the political party that allied itself with Labor in 1976 to assure him of a majority in Parliament. It was the Liberal Party, not the Liberal Democratic Party. The article also misstated the direction of the inflationary tide during his term. Inflation was soaring when he took office, but had dropped by 1979, when Labor lost the national election.
      