
        Dr. Wilfred G. Bigelow, a cardiac surgeon who created a pathbreaking technique of cooling the body to allow open-heart surgery and also helped develop an early pacemaker, died Sunday in an extended-care facility in Toronto. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        As a young surgeon at the University of Toronto in the 1940's, Dr. Bigelow drew on his earlier research on hypothermia to theorize that cooling patients before an operation would curb the body's demands for oxygen and slow its circulation, allowing for longer and safer access to the heart.
        Dr. Bigelow successfully tested his theory on a dog in 1949 and announced the results at a meeting of the American Surgical Association in Colorado Springs in 1950. Three years later, the first successful surgery to use the cooling technique on a human was performed. In applying the technique, the patient was anesthetized and placed on a bed of ice to give surgeons a window of roughly 10 minutes of access to the heart.
        The hypothermia technique was supplanted by the heart-lung machine in the 1960's, although it is now used on parts of the heart during surgery in tandem with the machine to allow access to the heart for two or more hours.
        Dr. Bigelow's technique was recognized as ''an extraordinarily revolutionary concept that allowed an entire field to evolve,'' said Dr. Richard K. Reznick, chairman of the department of surgery at the University of Toronto.
        In the course of his work with hypothermia, Dr. Bigelow made other important observations that contributed to the development of the pacemaker. He revived an animal heart in cardiac arrest by probing it with a surgical tool and theorized that its beating could be controlled in the same way by electrical stimulation.
        In 1950, Dr. Bigelow, working with Dr. John Callaghan and an electrical engineer, Jack Hopps, created a radio-size unit that was used to restart a patient's heart after cooling.
        Dr. Bigelow later wrote a book about his research, ''Cold Hearts: The Story of Hypothermia and the Pacemaker in Heart Surgery,'' which won the Royal Society of Canada's Jason A. Hannah Medal, which recognizes achievement in research into the history of medicine.
        The son of a surgeon, Wilfred Gordon Bigelow was born in Brandon, Manitoba. He earned his undergraduate and medical degrees from Toronto.
        After further training at Johns Hopkins, he was named a research fellow at Toronto in 1950. He became a professor of surgery there in 1970 and was also head of the cardiovascular surgery division of Toronto General Hospital from 1956 to 1977. He retired in 1979.
        Dr. Bigelow was a former president of the American Association for Thoracic Surgery and the Society for Vascular Surgery. He was president of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society from 1970 to 1972.
        In 1959, he was among the first group of recipients of the Gairdner Foundation International Award for achievement in biomedical research based on his innovations with surgical hypothermia.
        Dr. Bigelow married Margaret Ruth Jennings in 1941; she died in 2000.
        He is survived by a daughter, Pixie Bigelow Currie of Toronto; three sons, Dan, of Petersfield, Manitoba, John, of Honolulu, and William, of Toronto; a brother, Dr. Dan Bigelow of Winnipeg, Manitoba; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      