
        George Atkinson, who helped popularize home viewing of Hollywood films by opening the first video rental store in 1979, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69.
        The cause was emphysema, the Video Software Dealers Association said.
        ''He really gave birth to the rental business model,'' said Bo Andersen, president of the association, which represents video stores. ''And rental really gave birth to home video as a packaged good.''
        When Hollywood executives began making feature-length films available on video in the 1970's, they charged $50 each and envisioned affluent consumers building large libraries, just as they did with records.
        Mr. Atkinson, a onetime stuntman and occasional actor, saw things differently. As he told The Los Angeles Times Magazine in 1987: ''I said: 'You listen to Beethoven or the Beatles over and over again. You don't watch Burt Reynolds over and over.'''
        To start his rental business, Mr. Atkinson bought 50 movies that had recently been made available on video, including ''The French Connection,'' ''The Sound of Music'' and ''Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.'' He then advertised their availability for rental in a one-inch ad in The Los Angeles Times.
        Customers arrived in droves and willingly paid the $10-a-day rental fee. (Only the wealthy could afford the $1,000 that VCR's cost then.)
        Mr. Atkinson named his service Video Station and began selling his business model to others. He hired a manager to field calls from prospective affiliates in the only free space he had, the bathroom, where a phone was installed beside the toilet.
        Video Station grew so quickly that it went public in the early 1980's, and at one point had 600 affiliated stores.
        ''My only regret is that I couldn't patent it,'' he told Video Store Magazine in 1999.
        Mr. Atkinson left Video Station in the mid-1980's amid disclosures that the company had overstated its profits. His brother, Edward, an executive, was later convicted of perjury and securities fraud and sentenced to five years in prison. Mr. Atkinson pleaded guilty to filing false financial reports and was sentenced to 2,000 hours of community service.
        There are now more than 24,000 video stores in the United States, according to the Video Software Dealers Association. Those stores rented 2.6 billion DVD's and VHS cassettes last year, generating more than $8 billion in revenue.
        George William Atkinson was born on June 2, 1935, in Shanghai. During World War II, the family spent more than two years in a Japanese prison camp. He was 14 when the family moved to Los Angeles.
        After graduating from the University of California, Los Angeles with a degree in English, he was drafted into the Army for two years.
        He is survived by three daughters, Camille Atkinson of Bend, Ore.; Maureen Red Elk of Santa Fe, N.M.; and Ashleigh Atkinson of San Clemente, Calif.; his brother, Edward J. Atkinson of Los Angeles; and his mother, Valerie Atkinson, of Los Angeles. His two marriages ended in divorce.
      