
        Cliff Montgomery, the quarterback who called and executed the hidden-ball play known as KF-79 that propelled Columbia to a 7-0 upset of Stanford in the 1934 Rose Bowl, died Thursday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. Montgomery, who lived in Roslyn Heights, N.Y., was 94.
        He died after a short illness, his son, Clifford, said.
        In 1934, the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., was the only important postseason football game.
        For the game on New Year's Day, the teams were Stanford (8-1-1), which had been scored on only four times all season, and Columbia (7-1), which had lost only to Princeton.
        For the three days before the game, torrential rains almost washed away the field.
        ''When we arrived the day before the game, the Rose Bowl looked like a lake,'' Montgomery, the captain of that Columbia team and a member of the College Football Hall of Fame, recalled in a 1981 article for The New York Times. ''The players' benches were floating up and down the sideline like small boats.''
        When the rain abated that day, a half-dozen fire departments began drying the field. They pumped out two and a half million gallons of water, but game day brought more rain, a muddy field and a general conviction that Stanford, with a 17-pound-a-man advantage, could run the ball at will.
        In those days, the quarterback rather than the coach called the plays, and in the first quarter, Montgomery faked giving the ball to Al Barabas, the fullback, then handed it off to another back.
        In the second quarter, with Columbia on Stanford's 17, Montgomery decided it was time for KF-79, a trick play devised by the Columbia coach, Lou Little. From the single-wing formation, Montgomery took the snap, and the deception began.
        ''I thought Stanford would be expecting a play into the line, and KF-79 was designed to fool them,'' Montgomery said years later. ''We went into a single-wing formation to the right. I took the snap from center and spun. I slipped the ball to Barabas, who put it on his left hip and circled out toward their left end. I now faked a handoff to Ed Brominski, who headed toward Stanford's right. I followed him, and almost the entire Stanford team clawed at Brominski and me. Barabas, by this time, was in the end zone.''
        Montgomery's fake to Brominski was so good that Barabas, who was hiding the ball for what would be a naked reverse, added to the deception by standing for a few seconds and watching Brominski. No one on Stanford paid attention to Barabas, and he scored easily.
        Montgomery, a 6-foot, 165-pound senior, was named the player of the game, the only bowl appearance in Columbia football history.
        When the team returned home by train, New York City's new mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia, led a victory parade from Penn Station to Columbia's Morningside Heights campus.
        After the Rose Bowl, as Montgomery recalled for USA Today in 2000: ''I had a screen test with Warner Brothers. Bert Lahr was in it, and Ginger Rogers. They wanted me to stay and finish college later, but Lou Little talked me into going back and finishing school, which I'm glad he did.''
        Clifford Earl Montgomery was born Sept. 17, 1910, in Natrona Heights, Pa., and was raised there. At Columbia, where he earned a degree in history, he and many teammates spent summers painting, repairing and nailing down loose boards at Baker Field, the wooden stadium where they played (it was razed in 1983). They were paid $7 a day.
        In Montgomery's three seasons at Columbia -- freshmen could not play varsity football then -- his team's record was 23-3-2, and the 32,000 seats were usually filled. He later played one season for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the National Football League for $350 a game.
        Montgomery became an executive of W.R. Grace and Company, then served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy during World War II. He was awarded the Silver Star during the 1945 invasion of Okinawa.
        He then spent 25 years as a sales executive for McGraw-Hill and served for almost 30 years as an on-field football official.
        In addition to his son Clifford, of Princeton, N.J., he is survived by his second wife, the former Nancy Hoyne, whom he married in 1976; a sister, Gladys Runco of Danville, Calif.; and two grandchildren. His first wife, the former Helen Schorr, died in 1972.
        Almost a half-century after he played a leading role in Columbia's Rose Bowl upset, Montgomery could still picture the moment when Barabas made it to the Stanford end zone.
        As Montgomery put it, ''Seeing him there was one of the most thrilling sights of my life.''
      