
        Robert C. Wood, an academic, writer and bureaucrat whose acumen in domestic issues like housing and education prompted Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson to seek his advice and the University of Massachusetts and the Boston school system to name him as their leader, died on Friday at his home in Boston. He was 81.
        The cause was stomach cancer, his wife, Margaret, said.
        For much of his career, Dr. Wood seemed the epitome of the university intellectual who periodically advises seekers and wielders of governmental power, usually quietly. But he also filled some high-profile positions, most notably as the superintendent of Boston schools, and helped Kennedy devise and carry out his urban and housing policies.
        Dr. Wood wrote seven books on political science, including ''Suburbia: Its People and their Politics'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1959). Harrison Salisbury wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''sketches with searing realism the actuality of the suburb,'' and others later suggested that it had popularized the word ''suburbia.''
        As a senator running for president, Kennedy sought the advice of Dr. Wood, then a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, on urban issues. In 1960 Dr. Wood helped write a notable campaign speech for Kennedy that focused on the needs of the American city.
        In the Johnson administration, Dr. Wood led the task force that recommended the establishment of a cabinet-level department, the Department of Housing and Urban Development. He then served as the department's first under secretary and, for the last two weeks of Mr. Johnson's presidency, as its secretary.
        Dr. Wood helped create the Model Cities Program, which focused federal revenues on needy neighborhoods. He also played an important part in developing the Fair Housing Act of 1968, which prohibited racial discrimination in real estate sales.
        He then succeeded Daniel Patrick Moynihan as director of the Harvard-M.I.T. Joint Center for Urban Studies. From 1970 to 1978, he was president of the University of Massachusetts, where his accomplishments included expanding the university's Boston branch into a full campus and overseeing the completion of the medical school in Worcester.
        Dr. Wood also lured the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum to a site next to the university's Boston campus, a choice that news accounts at the time suggested was a setback for Harvard.
        In the Boston school system, he was the first superintendent in 66 years to be chosen from outside the school system, and he ruffled feathers on issues like staffing and desegregation in his two years in office. When the Boston School Committee fired him in 1980 after two stormy years, John D. O'Bryant, the first black elected to the committee in the 20th century, abstained, saying he did not ''choose to be present at a lynching.''
        Robert Coldwell Wood was born in St. Louis on Sept. 16, 1923. His father was a shoe salesman and his mother a schoolteacher. When he was 2, the family moved to Jacksonville, Fla., where he grew up.
        He won a scholarship from Princeton, where he interrupted his studies to serve in the Army in Europe during World War II, taking part in the Battle of the Bulge. He returned to Princeton and graduated summa cum laude. He earned a doctorate in government and political economy from Harvard.
        He next worked for the Legislative Reference Bureau in Florida, before moving to work as an urban affairs specialist at the agency that would become the Office of Management and Budget. He taught at Harvard from 1954 to 1957 before moving to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a member of the political science department for nine years.
        He returned to M.I.T. as chairman of the political science department after working in the Housing and Urban Affairs Department. In 1969 and 1970, he was chairman of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Wood is survived by his daughters, Frances Wood of Cambridge, Mass., and State Senator Margaret Wood Hassan of Exeter, N.H.; his son, Frank, of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      