
        Chen Yifei, one of the China's most acclaimed and commercially successful painters and visual artists, died here on Sunday. He was 59.
        His death followed a stomach hemorrhage he suffered while working on a feature film, ''Barber,'' the official New China News Agency reported.
        Known for his oil paintings, which were a blend of romanticism and realism, Mr. Chen had in recent years become a kind of style entrepreneur in Shanghai, branching out into film and fashion. He was one of the first Chinese artists to bridge the gap between the art of the Cultural Revolution and Western contemporary art.
        Early on, he gained notoriety for painting glorified portraits of Mao and large-scale revolutionary canvases. Later, after the Cultural Revolution ended in 1976, he turned to more European-style romantic portraits of Chinese women in traditional dress and to colorful landscapes and Tibetan villagers.
        He was a favorite of Communist Party leaders in the 1970's and 80's, and of Western industrialists, like Armand Hammer, the oil magnate, who purchased several of his works and presented one of them to Deng Xiaoping, the Chinese leader, as a gift.
        Mr. Chen lived in New York from 1980 to 1990. He amassed a fortune selling his work there, as well as in Hong Kong and London. He returned to Shanghai in 1990 and began constructing his own visual arts and fashion empire, vowing to bring art, beauty and style to people who grew up in Communist China.
        ''I mean, there were one billion people living without any real sense of lifestyle,'' he once told Time magazine, reflecting on his return to China. ''My dream was to bring aesthetics to Chinese society.''
        Chen Yifei was born in 1946 in Ningbo, in coastal Zhejiang Province. When he was a child, his family moved to Shanghai, where he was to study Russian artists and Socialist Realism, China's official art style at the time. In 1965 he graduated from the Shanghai College of Art.
        A year later, with the Cultural Revolution just under way, Mr. Chen came to the attention of Communist Party officals with his propaganda work, which included portraits of Mao and heroic soldiers. Although he later complained about feeling confined as a revolutionary socialist painter, he was recognized as one of the leading artists at the state-financed Shanghai Institute of Painting.
        In 1979, for the 30th anniversary of Communist rule in China, he painted ''Looking at History From My Space,'' a self-portrait of the artist glancing back at a canvas depicting a torrent of historical events from the early part of the 20th century. It brought him even greater national fame and is still considered one of his most original works.
        Many of the works from his early period, however, were lost or destroyed, according to Mr. Chen's long-time dealer, Gilbert Lloyd, at Marlborough Fine Art, a London gallery that has represented Mr. Chen since 1994.
        In 1980 he became one of the first artists from the People's Republic of China permitted to work and study art in the United States. Mr. Chen, who often said he arrived with just $38 in his pocket, soon enrolled at Hunter College and found work as an art restorer. In 1983, even before he earned his master's degree at Hunter, his solo exhibition at the Hammer Galleries created a sensation by selling out in the first week. Later, he painted on contract for the Hammer Galleries.
        When Mr. Chen returned to China in 1990, he settled in Shanghai, where some critics say he turned increasingly commercial. Although he often traveled to Tibet and painted Impressionist landscapes in his native Zhejiang Province, he had in recent years transformed himself into a style entrepreneur, decorating hotels, creating fashion brands and selling high-end clothing and chic home furnishings. He even oversaw one of the country's biggest modeling agencies.
        His films included a documentary about Jewish refugees in Shanghai before 1949. While working on a feature film, ''Barber,'' Mr. Chen fell ill, according to state-run media, and died.
        Mr. Lloyd at Marlborough Galleries said Mr. Chen was survived by his second wife, Song Meiying, and two sons.
      