
        John J. O'Leary, a former ambassador to Chile who helped start negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United States and that country in the late 1990's, died Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 58.
        The cause was complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said.
        Mr. O'Leary, a lawyer, business consultant and former mayor of Portland, Me., was active in community service and Democratic Party politics in Maine before his appointment as ambassador by President Clinton in 1998. He had met Mr. Clinton while the two were students at Yale Law School.
        While serving as ambassador in Santiago, Mr. O'Leary pushed the government of Chile to investigate the deaths of American citizens in the years of the rule of Gen. Augusto Pinochet and also helped open United States archives on human rights abuses in Chile in the 1970's and 1980's.
        He was also active in nature and wildlife conservation efforts in Latin America.
        Mr. O'Leary helped start negotiations on the United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement while serving in Santiago and after returning to Washington pressed for its ratification by Congress; it was approved in 2003 under President Bush, who was also a friend from their days at Yale.
        Late in his career, he was also president of the Chilean-American Chamber of Commerce.
        Born and reared in Portland, Mr. O'Leary graduated from Yale in 1969 and attended Clare College at Cambridge University as a Mellon Fellow. He graduated from Yale Law School in 1974 and joined the Portland law firm of Pierce Atwood.
        He was elected to the Portland City Council and was mayor in 1980-81, helping to build the Portland Museum of Art and the Portland Public Library.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia Cepeda, an interpreter and translator; two daughters, Alejandra Cepeda O'Leary of New Haven, and Gabriela Joyce O'Leary of Providence, R.I.; four brothers and one sister.
      