
        Peter F. Flaherty, a former mayor of Pittsburgh who was briefly deputy United States attorney general under President Jimmy Carter, died on Monday at his home in the Pittsburgh suburb of Mount Lebanon, Pa. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, his son Shawn said.
        A Democrat, Mr. Flaherty was elected mayor in 1969. He ran as a reform candidate, calling himself Nobody's Boy to signal his distance from the Democratic Party machine that had long dominated Pittsburgh politics. As mayor, Mr. Flaherty was known as a maverick who held Pittsburgh's established business and political interests at arm's length. Socially populist and fiscally conservative, he cut taxes, trimmed the city payroll and fought labor unions, once hauling garbage himself during a municipal strike.
        Elected to a second term, he left office in 1977 to take the deputy attorney general's post.
        Confirmed as deputy attorney general in April 1977, Mr. Flaherty left the job in November of that year, uncomfortable with Washington politics and at odds with many members of the Carter administration, his son said.
        In 1978, Mr. Flaherty ran for governor; he was defeated by Dick Thornburgh. He ran twice for the United States Senate, losing to Richard S. Schweiker in 1974 and to Arlen Specter in 1980.
        Peter Francis Flaherty was born in Pittsburgh on June 25, 1924. His parents, immigrants from Ireland, ran a neighborhood grocery store; his father also worked as a streetcar conductor. Mr. Flaherty, who received a law degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1951 and a master's degree in public administration from the University of Pittsburgh in 1971, began his career as an assistant district attorney in Pittsburgh. In 1965, he was elected to the City Council.
        From 1984 to 1996, Mr. Flaherty was an Allegheny County commissioner and afterward returned to practicing law.
        Mr. Flaherty's first marriage, to the former Nancy Houlihan, ended in divorce. He married the former Charlene Conely Musser in 1998. Both women survive him, as do a brother, James, of Red Lion, Pa.; five sisters: Rita, of Pittsburgh; Margaret Moretti, of Mount Lebanon; Catherine, of Delray Beach, Fla.; Helen Smith, of Mount Lebanon; and Patrice Mahon of Boynton Beach, Fla.; five children from his first marriage: a daughter, Maggie Gurtner, of Mount Lebanon, and four sons, Shawn, Peter F. III and Brian, all of Pittsburgh; and Gregory, of Redondo Beach, Calif.; and eight grandchildren.
      