
        Joe Nash, a leading archivist of black dance in the United States, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Mr. Nash, who lived in Manhattan, was 85.
        The cause was complications of cardiovascular problems, said Rashidah Ismaili, a friend.
        Mr. Nash built one of the country's largest collections of materials on the development of dance by black artists. With books, dissertations, photographs, video and memorabilia, his collection was a major source of information for Richard A. Long's ''Black Tradition in American Dance'' (Rizzoli, 1989). Its photographs were selected and annotated by Mr. Nash.
        He coordinated black dance history courses at the Ailey School and was a longtime guest scholar in the American Dance Festival's humanities and dance programs. In ''Pioneers in Negro Concert Dance: 1931 to 1937,'' an essay written for the festival's publication ''Black Tradition in American Modern Dance'' in 1988, Mr. Nash chronicled the struggles of early black ballet and modern-dance troupes. By the end of the 1930's, he wrote, ''black dance artists were now on the eve of greater recognition, for shaping not only the African-American modern dance tradition but also for extending the scope of American modern dance itself.'' Mr. Nash was also a guest scholar at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in the Berkshires, participating in a salute to the dancer and choreographer Katherine Dunham in 2000.
        And he was the colorful griot, or community storyteller, for black dance in America and particularly New York. In this role, he often appeared in public in flowing robes and was a familiar honored elder at the Brooklyn Academy of Music's annual DanceAfrica programs. He told vivid anecdotes not only about his colleagues' careers, but also about his own as a dancer on Broadway, in modern dance troupes like the Charles Weidman company and in groups that featured choreography performed by black artists starting in the mid-1940's.
        He liked to say that he had taught himself ballet by studying photographs in Dance magazine, and his formal training in modern dance was greatly augmented by performing with crucial early figures in the field, among them Pearl Primus and Donald McKayle.
        He left no immediate survivors.
      