
        Sir Eduardo Paolozzi, a father of British Pop Art and a leading sculptor of the postwar era, died in a London hospital on Friday. He was 81.
        Sir Eduardo's death followed a period of decline that began when he suffered a stroke four years ago, said Emily Bishop, director of the New York branch of Flowers, the London gallery that handles his work.
        Long before Pop Art emerged in the United States, Sir Eduardo made collages using mass-media images that reflected the impact of commercialism and consumerism on contemporary culture. He went on to create sculptures resembling futuristic and surrealistic machines, satirizing the mechanization of modern life.
        Eduardo Luigi Paolozzi was born in Edinburgh on March 7, 1924, the son of Italian immigrants who ran a confectionery shop. He began creating scrapbooks of images from magazines and comic books as a boy before receiving any formal training in art.
        Intending to study commercial art, he attended art schools in Edinburgh and London. It was while he was living in Paris, from 1947 to 1949, that his education in fine art began. He met Constantin Brancusi and Alberto Giacometti, as well as artists associated with Dada and Surrealism, and he began making the collages that would establish his reputation.
        Back in London, Sir Eduardo was one of the original members of the Independent Group, a collection of younger artists, including Richard Hamilton, William Turnbull and Victor Pasmore, who rebelled against the conservative formalism of Modernists like Henry Moore and Barbara Hepworth. In 1952, Sir Eduardo presented ''Bunk,'' a mock lecture in which he rapidly showed slides of commercial imagery without commentary.
        The Independent Group's interest in connecting art with different dimensions of culture, including advertising, movies, fashion, science fiction and car design, culminated in a 1956 exhibition called ''This Is Tomorrow.'' The show included Mr. Hamilton's famous small collage ''Just What Is It That Makes Today's Homes So Different, So Appealing?,'' which was directly indebted to collages of Sir Eduardo.
        In the late 50's, Sir Eduardo created crusty, expressionist bronze sculptures under the influence of Jean Dubuffet, but in the early 60's he shifted to futuristic, playful sculptures resembling robots and functional machines, with surfaces of shiny chrome or bright colors. Also a prolific printmaker, he produced many compositions combining Pop, Cubist and Surrealist styles.
        In the 80's and 90's, he focused on public commissions. One of the most notable was a monumental bronze based on William Blake's allegorical image of Isaac Newton, which was installed in the forecourt of the British Library in 1997.
        Sir Eduardo taught throughout his life. He held appointments at the Central School of Arts and Crafts, St. Martin's School of Art, the Royal College of Art and the Akademie der Bildenden Künste in Munich. He was elected to the Royal Academy in 1979 and knighted in 1989.
        Sir Eduardo's marriage to Freda Elliott ended in divorce. He is survived by three daughters, Louise, Anna and Emma.
      