
        Johnny Sample, the former Jets defensive back who carved a place in National Football League lore by participating in three of the most storied games of the 1950's and 1960's, died Monday. He was 67.
        Sample, who became a radio talk-show host in his native Philadelphia after he retired, died at a hospital there. The cause was heart disease, according to Jeff Moran, a spokesman for the Philadelphia Medical Examiner's Office.
        Sample is best known for his performance in the Jets' stunning upset of the Baltimore Colts in Super Bowl III. Led by Sample, the Jets' secondary limited the Colts to 17 completions in 41 pass attempts. Sample's interception of an Earl Morrall pass at the Jets' 2-yard line in the first half proved pivotal in the 16-7 victory.
        ''Johnny dedicated his life to football and had a passion for the game,'' Jets Coach Herman Edwards said in a statement. ''He will always have a special place in Jets' history.''
        Super Bowl III was Sample's last game. It ended an 11-year career that began with an appearance in another of the N.F.L.'s most celebrated championship games, the 1958 matchup between the Giants and the Colts, who drafted Sample earlier that year.
        Although he played a minor role in the Colts' 23-17 overtime victory, Sample started in the championship game the next season. He had two interceptions in the fourth quarter, one leading to a Baltimore touchdown, in a 31-16 victory over the Giants.
        ''His participation in two of the most significant games in N.F.L. history, the 1958 championship game and Super Bowl III, symbolized the champion John was,'' Jim Irsay, the Colts' owner, said in a statement.
        Sample, who joined the Jets in 1966, also played in the fabled Heidi Game in 1968, when the Oakland Raiders scored two touchdowns in the final 42 seconds to defeat the Jets, 43-32. NBC did not show the final 50 seconds of the game so that the movie ''Heidi'' would begin on time.
        During a career that also included stints with the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Washington Redskins, Sample forged a reputation as a tenacious defender and an outspoken presence in the locker room. Once called the league's dirtiest player, Sample playfully embraced the label for the title of his 1970 memoir, ''Confessions of a Dirty Player.''
        Sample helped popularize the practice of taking notes on the tendencies of opposing receivers. He also helped contribute to the spread of trash talk and on-field banter.
        After intercepting a pass by Morrall in the Super Bowl, Sample tapped the ball against the helmet of Willie Richardson, the intended receiver, and said, ''This is what you're looking for.''
        Sample is survived by two daughters and a son.
      