
        Greg Jordan, a prominent Manhattan designer who created interiors for socialites like Blaine Trump and Elizabeth Johnson, with whom he formed close friendships, died on Wednesday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 48.
        The cause was a heart attack stemming from advanced coronary artery disease, his mother, Patricia Jordan, said.
        Gregory J. Jordan was born in Monroe, La. He graduated from Wabash College in 1978, and studied law for a year at Louisiana State University before moving to New York in 1980 with dreams of becoming a novelist. While Mr. Jordan was doing odd jobs to pay the rent, a friend at a decorating firm began to enlist his help installing projects and, noticing that he had an eye for design, encouraged him to make a career of it.
        In 1983, Mr. Jordan opened his own company. He had a well-mannered approach and a knack for befriending the right people, and Cece Cord, a young socialite, became an early champion. In 1992, Mr. Jordan's profile was raised by a colorful room he designed for the Kips Bay Decorator Showhouse. After seeing the room, Mrs. Trump, the wife of the real estate investor Robert Trump, commissioned Mr. Jordan to decorate the couple's house in Millbrook, N.Y., a plum job that opened other doors.
        Within a few years, Mr. Jordan was designing houses for Ms. Johnson, a Johnson & Johnson heiress; the actress Ashley Judd and the television star Larry David.
        Mr. Jordan, who was named this year by Architectural Digest as one of the magazine's Deans of Designs, was best known for rooms that, while comfortable and traditionally sumptuous, had a theatrical impact, most often with an unexpected but restrained use of color. Working at a time when clients often insisted that they did not want a house that looked ''done,'' he designed interiors that walked a graceful line between the understated and overstated.
        In addition to his mother, Mr. Jordan is survived by his brother, Jeffrey Lewis Jordan of Monroe, La.
      