
        J.B. Stoner, an unapologetic racist whose conviction for bombing a church, divisive political campaigns and vituperations about Jews and blacks made him a benchmark for racial extremism in the United States, died on Saturday at a nursing home in La Fayette, Ga. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, Judith Ragon, wife of Mr. Stoner's second cousin, Ronald Ragon, told The Associated Press.
        Mr. Stoner's views were so immoderate that Lester Maddox, an avowedly segregationist governor of Georgia, once refused to share the same stage with him. Mr. Stoner was convicted in 1980 of the 1958 bombing of a church in Birmingham, Ala., and was suspected by prosecutors in as many as a dozen others.
        A member of the Ku Klux Klan from his teens, he shadowed the man he called Martin Lucifer King as Dr. King led demonstrations across the South, holding rallies of his own. He was later on the legal team for James Earl Ray, Dr. King's assassin, in the appeal of his conviction.
        Mr. Stoner called Hitler too moderate, blacks a branch of the ape family and Jews ''vipers of hell.'' He nonetheless described himself as ''the candidate of love'' during his campaign for Georgia governor in 1970, one of many unsuccessful efforts at elective office.
        ''I love white people and I love white children,'' he said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal.
        During a campaign for the United States Senate in 1972, Mr. Stoner won a fight before the Federal Communications Commission that civil libertarians considered a victory for free speech: he was allowed to use the word ''nigger'' in commercials.
        Jesse Benjamin Stoner Jr. was born in 1924 in Walker County, Ga., near Chattanooga. He contracted polio at 2 and walked with a limp for the rest of his life. He told The Journal that no black or Jew ever personally harmed him, but that he began to suspect and fear a conspiracy to encourage racial intermarriage.
        At 18, he re-chartered a dormant chapter of the Ku Klux Klan in Chattanooga. His philosophy, according to Taylor Branch in his 1998 book ''Pillar of Fire,'' derived from a California fundamentalist, Wesley Swift, who saw Anglo-Saxons as God's chosen people.
        Mr. Stoner started an anti-Semitic political party in 1945, graduated from Atlanta Law School in 1952 and soon started a second anti-Semitic party. He also helped found the National States Right Party and ran for vice president on the party's ticket in 1964, receiving 6,980 of 70.6 million votes cast.
        His best performance as a candidate was in 1974, when he got 71,000 votes, or nearly 10 percent, in a bid for Georgia lieutenant governor.
        While campaigning again for governor in 1977, he was indicted on charges of bombing Bethel Church in Birmingham in 1958; there were no casualties. He was convicted in 1980 and served three and a half years of a 10-year sentence.
        He is survived by two sisters.
      