
        Dr. Canute C. Bernard, a prominent surgeon and a community leader in Queens, died on March 15 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Jamaica, Queens.
        The cause was complications from a fall at church, his wife, Daisy Bernard, said.
        Dr. Bernard helped to influence a 1968 decision by Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York to put York College of the City University of New York in Jamaica, Queens. Opponents preferred alternative sites in Queens at Fort Totten, near Bayside, or on the Glen Oaks golf course on the Queens-Nassau line between Little Neck and Bellerose. Dr. Bernard and like-minded leaders hoped to spur the growth of housing, retailing and jobs in Jamaica.
        Dr. Bernard later became co-chairman of York's advisory council and a board member of Friends of York College, his wife said.
        At Harlem Hospital in 1958, he was on the team of doctors who saved the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. after he was stabbed in a Harlem department store.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Bernard, as a member of the Queens Clinical Society and the South Jamaica antipoverty center, joined a group of doctors angry about the lag in antipoverty funds needed to set up a medical clinic for poor people in the community.
        He held numerous other prominent positions in Queens and was medical director of the New York State Workers' Compensation Board from the late 1970's to 1998.
        Canute Clive Bernard was born on Jan. 1, 1924, in Limon, Costa Rica, and raised in Jamaica in the West Indies. He attended the College of Pharmacy in Kingston, where he earned a degree in pharmacy in 1945, and Howard University, where he received a bachelor's in chemistry in 1949.
        He earned his medical degree in Switzerland at the Geneva School of Medicine, University of Geneva, in 1956, then finished his internship at Queens Hospital Center and his residency at Harlem Hospital.
        In the late 1940's he married Muriel G. Handy, who died in 1973. Besides Daisy, his wife of 30 years, he is survived by a son and daughter from his first marriage, Canute Jr. of Brooklyn and Sonja Bernard of Jamaica, Queens; a son from his second marriage, Gregory G., also of Jamaica, Queens; a stepdaughter, Carmen L. White of Fresh Meadows, Queens; a stepson, Arthur A. White of Addisleigh Park, Queens; a brother, Gilbert, and a sister, Maria Bernard, both of Costa Rica; five grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      