
        Frank Perdue, a Maryland farm boy who became a household word, face and voice in folksy ads for his brand of fresh chickens, died on Thursday at his home in Salisbury, Md. He was 84.
        He died after a brief illness, his company said, but it did not announce a cause.
        At his death, Mr. Perdue was chairman of the executive committee of Perdue Farms, the company he transformed from a family farm into the country's third-largest chicken processor. Last year, Perdue Farms had sales of $2.8 billion and employed 19,000 people.
        Frank Perdue was born to Arthur W. and Pearl Perdue in 1920, the same year Arthur Perdue started the family chicken business. An only child, Frank Perdue was involved in the chicken business from an early age, helping his parents feed the chickens and clean the coops.
        After attending Salisbury State College in Maryland for two years, Mr. Perdue returned to the farm to work with his father. When he became president of Perdue Farms in 1952, it was still a small operation, with revenue of $6 million a year.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Perdue started the ad campaigns that would make him famous. He appeared in 200 different ads from 1971 to 1994.
        It helped that he looked like a chicken. And Ross Perot. And Edward I. Koch, the mayor of New York. His bald head, droopy-eyed expression and prominent nose made people smile and feel comfortable with him. They tended to trust him more than they did slick-looking announcers.
        It helped, too, that he had a nasal twang that contrasted with the unctuous tones of the usual pitchmen.
        ''It takes a tough man to raise a tender chicken,'' he said in his most familiar line. It made him believable -- a hard-nosed yet likable American businessman who knew what he was talking about, who knew how to be tender and how to be tough.
        ''My chickens eat better than you do,'' he told his audience. ''A chicken is what it eats. If you want to start eating as good as my chickens, take a tip from me -- eat my chickens.''
        ''Freeze my chickens? I'd rather eat beef!'' was another line. He told his viewers that if they were not completely satisfied, they should write him directly and he would give them their money back. Do not write the government, he said: ''The president of the United States? What does he know about chickens?''
        Mr. Perdue's ads had an enormous effect on the company's business. According to a Perdue Farms survey taken in early 1972, brand recognition in New York, where most of the ads first appeared, rose to 51 percent in several months. The ads transformed Perdue into the first nationally recognized brand of chicken.
        Mr. Perdue started developing his production system on the family farm. Just before World War II, an infectious disease, leukosis, wiped out the flock of 2,000 leghorns. The Perdues turned to a healthier breed, New Hampshire reds, and switched the business to broilers from egg production. When meat prices climbed during World War II, the Perdues began hatching their own chicks by the thousands, raised them, sold them and prospered.
        By the time Mr. Perdue became president of Perdue Farms, its processing plants were producing 2.6 million broilers a year.
        Mr. Perdue developed a method of adding marigold petals and dye to the feed that gave his birds a golden-yellow hue; the characteristic color did not affect their taste, but seemed to please customers and sell birds.
        In the 1970's, he added processing plants in Delaware, Virginia and North Carolina and was able to ship more than two million broilers a week, packed in ice, not frozen.
        The Perdue innovations in production, marketing and advertising were imitated in the poultry business and contributed to its consolidation. After the chickens were hatched at the Perdue Farms, they were sent to hundreds of contract farms to be raised. At one time, at the Country Time farm in Salisbury, one farmer tended two cavernous houses, each holding 30,000 chickens. Everything was automated, and lights burned 22 hours a day to keep the birds eating. After seven weeks of feeding, the birds, having grown to eight pounds, went to Perdue's processing plants.
        Some industry workers and animal-rights advocates criticized his processing plants as inhumane, and employees and state inspectors filed a series of complaints over the years, asserting that there were occupational hazards at the plants.
        No federal government or Congressional action was directed against Mr. Perdue. But in 1989, Perdue Farms paid $40,000 in fines imposed by North Carolina after a report that 36 workers in two plants had developed the wrist trauma known as carpal tunnel syndrome.
        Mr. Perdue's son, James, became chairman of Perdue Farms in 1991. He began appearing in commercials, instead of his father, in 1994. Today the privately held company sells more than 48 million pounds of chicken products and nearly 4 million pounds of turkey products a week. It also sells grain, vegetable oils and pet food ingredients.
        Mr. Perdue gave several large donations to Salisbury University; its business school is named for him.
        Mr. Perdue is survived by his third wife, Mitzi Ayala Perdue; four children from his first marriage, Sandra Spedden, of Cambridge, Md.; Anne Oliviero, of Cape Elizabeth, Me.; Beverly Nida, of Midlothian, Va.; and James, of Salisbury; 12 grandchildren; and 2 stepchildren.
        Correction:  April 6, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary of the poultry magnate Frank Perdue on Saturday omitted the surname of a daughter. She is Beverly Nida Jennings, not Beverly Nida.
      