
        Kenneth Schermerhorn, a conductor who directed the Nashville Symphony since 1983 and was the music director of the American Ballet Theater and the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra for several years, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 75.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said Alan D. Valentine, the president and chief executive of the Nashville Symphony.
        In a career that began in the mid-1950's, when he led the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra, based in Germany, Mr. Schermerhorn built a reputation as an exacting conductor who was able to turn middle-tier regional groups into polished, nationally respected ensembles. He accomplished that transformation at the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra from 1968 to 1980, and during his years with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, from 1963 to 1968, he established the basis from which it grew.
        He first went to Nashville in 1982 as an adviser during a conductor search, but after he led a few concerts, the board persuaded him to stay. He methodically rebuilt and expanded the orchestra, increasing its string section by 16 players in 1999. He took the orchestra on its first tours.
        When it played at Carnegie Hall, in 2000, The New York Times called the performance ''a knockout'' and praised the warmth and suppleness of the orchestra's string playing as well as its ''commanding solidity'' over all. At the time, Mr. Schermerhorn and the orchestra were starting a well-regarded series of recordings of American music for the Naxos label. An installment in the series last year, Elliott Carter's Symphony No.1, was nominated for a Grammy Award. The orchestra's new concert hall, which is scheduled to open in September 2006, was named the Schermerhorn Symphony Center in his honor when ground was broken in 2003.
        Kenneth Schermerhorn was born in Schenectady, N.Y., on Nov. 20, 1929, and received his early training on the violin, clarinet and trumpet. He joined a dance band as a trumpeter when he was 14 and established his own group, the Blue Moods, in which he played the trumpet and sang. He continued his studies at the New England Conservatory, and after his graduation in 1950, he held positions in the trumpet sections of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and other ensembles.
        In the early 1950's, he was drafted into the Army and sent to Germany, where he was appointed to his first conducting position, music director of the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra, with which he toured Germany, Italy, France and Britain.
        Upon his return to the United States, Mr. Schermerhorn continued his conducting studies with Leonard Bernstein at Tanglewood. In 1957, when he was 28, he was appointed music director of the American Ballet Theater, a post he held until 1968, and to which he returned from 1982 to 1984. He also worked as an assistant conductor to Bernstein at the New York Philharmonic in 1959 and 1960. Mr. Schermerhorn was also the music director of the Hong Kong Philharmonic from 1983 to 1986.
        Mr. Schermerhorn is survived by his companion, Martha R. Ingram; a son, Stefan Schermerhorn of Fairfax, Calif.; two daughters, Veronica Chasanoff of Locust Valley, N.Y., and Erica Ancona of Margaretville, N.Y.; and a sister, Leonore Schermerhorn of Schenectady.
      