
        David Hughes, an English man of letters best known for exploring the individual's role in traumatic public events in his elegantly written novels, among them ''The Pork Butcher'' (Schocken, 1985) and ''The Joke of the Century'' (Taplinger, 1986), died on April 11. He was 74 and lived in London.
        His death was reported in the British news media.
        In ''The Pork Butcher,'' Mr. Hughes's ninth and most successful novel, Ernst Kestner, a German butcher, returns after World War II to a French village where in 1944 he took part in a massacre of 700 citizens by German troops. Now dying of lung cancer, he hopes to expiate his guilt, but instead compounds it, underlining the point that the burden of history can never be lifted.
        But if this novel is tragic, Mr. Hughes, typically, followed it with a comedy, ''The Joke of the Century'' (titled ''But for Bunter'' in its English version), a Zelig-like escapade in which not Churchill but Billy Bunter, the famous British children's book character, is responsible for the 20th century's most decisive events.
        David John Hughes was born on July 27, 1930, in Alton, Hampshire, the only child of Gwilym Fielden Hughes, a schoolmaster, and Edna Frances Cochrane Hughes. He was educated at Eggar's Grammar School, Alton, and King's College School, Wimbledon, both institutions where his father taught. Ever after, he addressed his father affectionately as Headmaster.
        After service in the R.A.F. from 1949 to 1951, he earned a degree in English at Christ Church, Oxford, and spent the next six years first as an editorial assistant to John Lehmann at London Magazine, then working for the publishing company Rupert Hart-Davis, which released his second and third novels, ''Sealed With a Loving Kiss'' (1959) and ''The Horsehair Sofa'' (1961), as well as a study of J.B. Priestley.
        In 1958, he married the Swedish actress Mai Zetterling, and for the next 17 years collaborated with her on films, a television play and a children's book, wrote travel books and ''The Man Who Invented Tomorrow'' (1968), about H.G. Wells, learned still-life photography, edited Town magazine in 1960-'61 and lived in Sweden and France.
        But feeling a need to reconnect with his roots, he returned to England, divorced Ms. Zetterling in 1976 and started publishing fiction again. In 1980, he married Elizabeth Westoll, with whom he had two children, Anna Rose and Merlin, who also survive him.
        In the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Hughes taught writing in the United States, at the Universities of Iowa, Alabama and Houston, and worked as a reviewer of film, fiction and theater for The Sunday Times and The Sunday Mail.
        He also published more books, including a memoir, ''Himself and Other Animals'' (1997), about his friend Gerald Durrell; ''The Lent Jewels'' (2002), a biography of a 19th-century archbishop of Canterbury; and ''The Hack's Tale'' (2004), the tartly witty and learned pilgrimage of a man who believes modern journalism has corrupted his mind and goes in search of its sources in Chaucer, Froissart and Boccaccio.
      