
        David T. Bazelon, a writer, social critic and teacher of political science, died on Monday in Madison, Wis. A former resident of Buffalo and Manhattan, he was 82 and had lived at a retirement residence in Madison since 1998.
        His son, Coleman D. Bazelon of Glenelg, Md., announced the death.
        Mr. Bazelon (pronounced BAZZ-lahn) was a corporate lawyer practicing in Manhattan before he made the switch to writing and teaching. At his retirement in 1985 he was a professor of policy sciences and English at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
        His books include ''The Paper Economy'' (Random House, 1963), ''Power in America: The Politics of the New Class'' (American Library, 1967), and ''Nothing But a Fine Tooth Comb: Essays in Social Criticism'' (Simon & Schuster, 1970). He was a writer and consultant for the movie ''Point of Order!'' (1964), a documentary drawn from the television coverage of the Senate's Army-McCarthy hearings of 1954.
        David Thomas Bazelon was born in Shreveport, La., on March 2, 1923. He studied at the University of Virginia, the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago before graduating from Columbia University in 1949. After receiving a degree from Yale Law School in 1953 he practiced corporate law at two large Manhattan firms until he quit in 1958.
        As a freelancer, starting in the 1940's, he wrote hundreds of articles, reviews and essays for national periodicals like Partisan Review, Dissent, Commentary, The Reporter and The New York Review of Books. In the 1960's he was a visiting fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, a visiting professor at the Rutgers University School of Law and a Guggenheim scholar. He joined the SUNY Buffalo faculty in 1969.
        His papers, including correspondence with his uncle, the late David L. Bazelon, a federal appeals judge who encouraged him in his professional undertakings, are in the Special Collections of the University of Maryland Library.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Bazelon is survived by his companion of 21 years, Luella Allen of Madison, and two grandsons.
        Correction:  May 3, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary of the writer and social critic David T. Bazelon on Saturday misstated the location of the library that houses his papers. It is at the University of Delaware, not the University of Maryland.
      