
        Jimmy Woode, a bassist who spent five years with Duke Ellington but was best known as one of the leading figures on the European jazz scene, died on Saturday at his home in Lindenwold, N.J. He was 78.
        He died of postoperative complications after surgery for a stomach aneurism, his daughter Deirdre Woode said.
        Mr. Woode spent almost his entire career in Europe after moving to Sweden in 1960. He adapted so comfortably to his surroundings, Ms. Woode said, that he eventually began pronouncing his last name ''Woody'' because Europeans tended to pronounce the silent ''e.''
        More important, Mr. Woode -- who lived in Sweden, Germany, Austria and Switzerland before moving back to the United States in 2001 -- became a fixture of a jazz community that in the 1960's and 1970's was still dominated by American expatriates. He worked with many of them, notably the pianist Bud Powell and the saxophonists Don Byas and Johnny Griffin. Most important, he was a charter member of Europe's most successful jazz orchestra, the Kenny Clarke-Francy Boland Big Band, remaining with it from its inception in 1960 until it disbanded in 1973.
        James Bryant Woode II was born in Philadelphia on Sept. 23, 1926. He studied both piano and bass and began playing professionally at 16. In the early and middle 50's, while living in Boston, he worked regularly at two local nightclubs, Storyville and the Hi Hat, accompanying Charlie Parker, Miles Davis, Billie Holiday and many others.
        What was supposed to be a two-week engagement substituting for Ellington's regular bassist at Storyville in 1955 turned into an eventful five-year stint. Ellington's career was at a low ebb when Mr. Woode joined, but a year later Ellington's rousing performance at the Newport Jazz Festival led to a triumphant comeback.
        Mr. Woode left the Ellington organization and the United States at the same time, but he remained closely identified with Ellington. He frequently gave talks about his years with the band, and last year he participated in a reunion of former Ellington sidemen at Claremont College in California, taking part in group discussions and jam sessions.
        Mr. Woode was married and widowed twice. In addition to Ms. Woode, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Florence, he is survived by two other daughters, Shawnn Monteiro of Providence, R.I., and Anne Frederickson of Stockholm; a son, Patrick Bergmans, of Berlin; two sisters, Ruth Fullard of Camden, N.J., and Edwina Reese of South Ozone Park, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      