
        Marilyn Levine, a prominent ceramic sculptor known for deceptively realistic renditions of leather goods, died on April 2 at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 69.
        The cause was mucosal melanoma, said John Allen, her partner of 25 years.
        Ms. Levine was born Marilyn Hayes in Medicine Hat, Alberta, in 1935 and grew up in Calgary. Interested in art as a child, she veered toward math and science, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry at the University of Alberta in Edmonton. She also married a chemist, Sydney Levine, in 1969; they divorced in 1977.
        With teaching jobs for women scarce, Ms. Levine began studying art intermittently at the University of Regina. By the late 1960's, she was committed to ceramics and exhibiting frequently in Canada. In 1969, she and her husband moved to the Bay Area, where California Funk, a quasi-Surrealistic style that embraced ceramics along with goofy, exaggerated representations of daily life, was heating up. She earned a master of arts (1970) and a master of fine arts (1971) from University of California, Berkeley, whose well-known ceramics faculty included Peter Voulkos.
        Ms. Levine's Funk phase included sculptures of shoes and sneakers oozing bright glaze. When a friend brought her his beat-up work shoes, she began to see old leather objects as metaphors for the passage of time and the scars of life. She developed a meticulous trompe l'oeil style, capturing in fired clay and glaze the forms, surfaces and creases of much-used luggage, gloves, hand-bags, a golf bag, a knapsack and even leather jackets hanging from coat hooks.
        Along with figurative sculptors like Duane Hanson and John De Andrea, her work was initially seen as a three-dimensional equivalent of Photo Realism and was included in ''Sharp-Focus Realism'' at the Sidney Janis Gallery in New York in 1971.
        But as time passed, her career unfolded mostly in the ceramics world.
        Ms. Levine showed at the Hansen Fuller Gallery in San Francisco in 1971 and had her first New York show at the Bernard Danenberg Gallery in 1973. In 1974 she had the first of seven exhibitions at the O.K. Harris Gallery in SoHo. In the mid 1990's, she began to revisit her Funk beginnings with ceramic cups that appeared to be made of cut-up leather sneakers.
        Ms. Levine's work is in the collections of many museums in the United States and Canada; in 1998, it was the subject of a retrospective at MacKenzie Art Gallery in Regina.
        In addition to Mr. Allen, Ms. Levine is survived by a brother, Robert Hayes of Calgary.
        Correction:  April 13, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Marilyn Levine, a ceramic sculptor, misstated the year of her marriage to Sydney Levine, from whom she was later divorced. It was 1959, not 1969.
      