
        Dr. Richard Henry Popkin, a historian of philosophy and its particular tradition of skeptical thought, died on Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was complications of emphysema, his family said.
        Skepticism, a hallmark of Western philosophy since ancient Greece, is an attitude of systematic questioning, not philosophical dogmatism or zealotry. Dr. Popkin wrote a history of skepticism that appeared in 1960. It included thinkers like Descartes and Spinoza as it went through editions and revisions.
        He expanded the work to ''The History of Scepticism From Savonarola to Bayle,'' now in its second edition, published by the Oxford University Press in 2003. The author documents an era pivotal to Western thought, an age of doubt as well as faith.
        Besides numerous articles and book chapters, Dr. Popkin wrote and edited 36 books, often in collaboration with others. Among the many still in print are a paperback, ''Spinoza,'' published in England last year, as well as ''Third Force in 17th-Century Thought'' (1991) and ''Skeptical Philosophy for Everyone'' (2001), written with Avrum Stoll.
        He was the editor of the Columbia History of Western Philosophy, published by the Columbia University Press in 1999, and ''Jewish Christians and Christian Jews: From the Renaissance to the Enlightenment'' (1993). Also in print is ''Scepticism and Irreligion in the 17th and 18th Centuries'' (1993), which he edited with Arjo Vanderjagt.
        Forswearing philosophy for a spell in the 1960's, Dr. Popkin joined the chorus of doubters who prominently disputed the Warren Commission Report on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. In an article in The New York Review of Books and in a paperback he argued that the commission's single-assassin solution was not just implausible, but also impossible in terms of the commission's evidence.
        The book, ''The Second Oswald'' (Avon, 1966), promptly came under attack. Eliot Fremont-Smith, in a review in The New York Times, called it ''a very hasty book, but fascinating reading.''
        At his death, Dr. Popkin was working on a book about Rabbi Isaac of Troki in Lithuania, who composed a polemic against Christianity in the 16th century, and a collection of essays on philosophical skepticism.
        Dr. Popkin was born in Manhattan. He graduated in 1943 from Columbia University, where he also received a master's in 1945 and a doctorate in 1950. He started teaching philosophy as an instructor at the University of Connecticut in the 1940's.
        Other positions followed, and he was a professor of philosophy at the University of California, San Diego, from 1963 to 1973. He was a professor of philosophy and Jewish studies at Washington University in St. Louis from 1973 to 1986 and was more recently affiliated as an adjunct professor with the University of California, Los Angeles.
        Surviving are his wife of 60 years, Juliet Greenstone Popkin; a son, Dr. Jeremy D. Popkin of Lexington, Ky.; two daughters, Margaret L. Popkin of Silver Spring, Md., and Dr. Susan J. Popkin of Vienna, Va.; a brother, Roy, also of Silver Spring; and five grandchildren.
      