
        Thomas J. Concannon, who abandoned a career in banking after a long bus ride across South Asia, then spent the next three decades wielding legendary charm and formidable negotiating skills as a lawyer for thousands of poor people in New York, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of multiple myeloma, a blood cancer, according his wife, Janet Mardfin.
        Until recently, Mr. Concannon was the attorney in charge of the Brooklyn federal defender division of the Legal Aid Society, a position he had held since 1980. He oversaw an office that represents 1,000 indigent people annually, and handled 60 to 80 cases himself.
        Few people have led any criminal justice institution in the metropolitan area for so long; while he was chief federal defender in Brooklyn, nine different lawyers served as the top federal prosecutor in the district. Mr. Concannon had a hand in defending more than 20,000 people who could not afford lawyers, his colleagues said.
        Most of those cases lacked even the faintest hint of glamour -- quite a few involved low-level drug couriers arrested at Kennedy International or La Guardia Airports -- but adversaries and colleagues said Mr. Concannon approached them all with the energy of a missionary priest and the cunning of a ward politician.
        ''It's hard not to be jaded, but he remained a very strong advocate and wonderful trial lawyer,'' said Matthew E. Fishbein, a former chief assistant federal prosecutor.
        Mr. Concannon was also a mentor to generations of public defenders and a counselor to people around him, from federal marshals to court clerks and janitors. They brought Mr. Concannon their troubles with job disputes, apartment evictions, even school expulsions, said Peter Kircheimer, a federal defender who worked with Mr. Concannon.
        ''He was father confessor to the world,'' Mr. Kircheimer said.
        His hair had thinned and whitened early in life, giving Mr. Concannon the air of an altar boy posing as an adult, a manner that he came by naturally but cultivated unapologetically. A federal judge, Carol B. Amon, speaking at a ceremony where Mr. Concannon was honored, said he would often turn up late for court, rushing in with a last-minute, though ingenious, argument about why a defendant deserved a break.
        As she scolded him, Judge Amon recalled, ''Tom, nodding, would take the abuse with that gentle smile that seemed to say, 'I know you wouldn't be yelling at me unless you really loved me.'''
        Born in Brooklyn and raised in Long Island, Mr. Concannon was the only son among four children. He attended the University of Pittsburgh and Fordham University School of Law. His first regular job was in the trust department of the First National City Bank, where he was a rising star, one of his sisters, Claire Whitehouse, recalled. He left to keep an early promise to go around the world and traveled from New Delhi to Istanbul.
        Camping one night in Afghanistan, he watched herdsmen leading a caravan of camels across the moonlit sands, an image he often cited as revealing the hollowness of modern materialism.
        Mr. Concannon lived on the Upper West Side with Ms. Mardfin, to whom he was married for 30 years, and their children, Peter and Leah. Besides them and Mrs. Whitehouse, his survivors include his sisters Regina Rywelski and Constance McSherry. Despite his illness, which he fought for five years, Mr. Concannon continued his work and won a case in February. A colleague, Jan Rostal, recalled the answer he gave when asked about his health: ''I'll surely die one day, but I'm not going to do it each day before.''
      