
        Guenter Reimann, a Marxist economist early in his career who eventually published one of the most expensive and influential newsletters on international capitalism and monetary exchange, died on Feb. 5 in Valley Stream, N.Y. He was 100 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y.
        His death was announced by his family.
        In his youth, Mr. Reimann was associated with the Communist opposition to Hitler's rise to power in Germany. After fleeing into exile, first to Britain and then to the United States, he published his first books here analyzing the market systems of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy.
        After World War II, having settled in New York, he started International Reports on Finance and Currency, a weekly advisory compiled for an elite group of subscribers who paid handsomely for it. It made him well-to-do but never changed his own his dim view of capitalism, especially in its unfettered variety.
        His newsletter billed itself as the ''oldest advisory service in all fields of international finance.'' He started it in the wake of the Bretton Woods conference, which created the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The institutions were established in 1946, but in the postwar chaos official exchange rates were largely on paper only and international commerce often was at the mercy of bartering and black market vagaries. Mr. Reimann helped dispel the confusion with his advisories.
        His newsletter counted leading economists among a worldwide network of correspondents who provided independent analyses of current conditions and trends. It had bureaus in Europe, the Middle East, South America and Asia as well as an editorial board of international bankers and academics.
        Supplements provided specific information for specific areas, at extra cost. The readership was clustered in central banks, embassies, government ministries and the head offices of Fortune 500 companies.
        Mr. Reimann remained editor in chief until 1982, when he sold his business -- International Reports Inc. of New York, by then a multi-title newsletter on international finance -- to The Financial Times.
        Guenter Hans Reimann was born Hans Steinecke, scion of a merchant family, in Angermünde, northeast of Berlin. He linked up with the leftist youth movement at 14 and joined the Communist Party, a strong force at the time. At 17, he was business editor of Red Banner, a party organ. He graduated with a degree in economics from the University of Berlin in 1928, and in the early 1930's traveled in the Soviet Union, by invitation, to report on its economic programs.
        By that time he had parted company with the German Communist Party because of its growing fealty to Moscow. Once Hitler came to power, he went underground with the leftist resistance; he took the name Guenter Reimann and kept it for the rest of his life.
        He left Germany in the mid-1930's and went to Paris and then London, where he learned about international finance from the economist John Atkinson Hobson. When British authorities moved to send him back to Germany as an undesirable alien for having engaged in politics, the American Friends Service Committee arranged for him to come to the United States as a political refugee in 1937.
        A book he had researched at the British Library, ''The Vampire Economy: Doing Business Under Fascism,'' was published by Vanguard Press in 1939. He followed it with two other analytical works, ''The Myth of the Total State'' (1941) and ''Patents for Hitler'' (1942).
        As a New Yorker, Mr. Reimann never lost touch with the land of his birth. After the war he took a public stand against the Morgenthau Plan, a wartime proposal that envisioned a totally de-industrialized Germany.
        His testimony before Congress helped win the repeal of the Trading With the Enemy Act, which immediately opened the way for the shipment of CARE packages to German families needing food, clothing and medicines. He also maintained a steady correspondence with Herbert Wehner, the German Social Democratic leader, an old friend once exiled like himself. It was published in book form in 1998.
        Mr. Reimann is survived by his wife of 50 years, Jutta Ruesch Reimann; their daughter, Karen Reimann-Steinecke of Dresden, Germany, and son, Robert Reimann-Steinecke of Port Washington, N.Y.; a daughter and son from his earlier marriage, Margaret Reimann of Bedford, Pa., and John Reimann of Oakland, Calif.; four grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      