
        Charles McC. Hauser, a longtime editor of The Providence Journal who risked prison by defying a federal judge in a First Amendment battle, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 76.
        He died after a three-day illness, The Journal said in reporting his death. He was the executive editor of the newspaper from 1973 to 1989.
        Charles McCorkle Newland Hauser, a native of North Carolina, began his career in journalism as a writer and editor on The Daily Tar Heel, the student newspaper at the University of North Carolina, from which he graduated in 1954. His studies were interrupted by three years of service in the Army artillery in the Korean War, where he earned the Bronze Star and a Purple Heart. After his return from Korea he served in the Army Reserve and later rose to colonel.
        He was a foreign correspondent for United Press International, reporting from London and Paris before rising through the ranks as an editor at The Charlotte Observer and The Greensboro Daily News and Record. He was vice president and general manager of The Virginian-Pilot of Norfolk when The Providence Journal, then The Journal-Bulletin, hired him.
        During Mr. Hauser's tenure at The Journal, Jack White earned a Pulitzer Prize for national reporting in 1974, and members of his staff finished among the finalists 16 more times.
        Mr. Hauser himself drew national headlines in 1985 when his newspaper defied a federal court order. He directed the publication of government documents based on illegally taped personal conversations of a man reputed to be an organized crime boss.
        A federal judge, who had forbidden the publication, issued a contempt citation for the newspaper and Mr. Hauser, who claimed the constitutional protections of freedom of the press. The judge fined the newspaper and sentenced Mr. Hauser to 18 months in prison, which he never served because the conviction was set aside on appeal in a decision later affirmed by the United States Supreme Court.
        After he retired from The Journal, Mr. Hauser worked as a consultant and wrote for various newspapers, including The Chapel Hill Weekly.
        Mr. Hauser's survivors include his wife of 48 years, Jane Edwards Hauser; a son, David McC., of Morgantown, W.Va.; a daughter, Susan Jane Hauser of Boulder, Colo.; and a brother, William, of Reston, Va.
      