
        Chalmers M. Roberts, a retired chief diplomatic correspondent for The Washington Post who covered the cold war, the nuclear arms race and the seats of power in Washington in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Christopher C. Roberts.
        A typewriter-pounding deadline reporter who preferred the street to the desk, Mr. Roberts joined The Post in 1949 and took on the diplomatic beat in 1953. Besides global affairs, he covered a range of general assignments, writing about the Supreme Court, Congress, the White House and political campaigns.
        He also wrote obituaries of world leaders, including Churchill and Stalin, chronicled the summit meetings of American and Soviet leaders, reported from Vietnam and the Middle East and covered the United States tour of Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev in 1959 and rioting in the Watts section of Los Angeles in 1965.
        Before retiring in 1971, Mr. Roberts wrote many of The Post's principal articles on the Pentagon Papers, the official secret history of the Vietnam War. For four days after The New York Times began publishing articles on the papers, The Post had no copy and Mr. Roberts, crediting The Times, rewrote its articles for Post readers.
        After The Post obtained the documents and the Nixon Administration won an injunction against The Times to block publication on national security grounds, he urged continued publication by The Post and wrote one more article before The Post -- and Mr. Roberts -- were named as defendants in the injunction. His last day at work was June 30, when the Supreme Court struck down the administration's effort to restrain publication.
        Mr. Roberts, who contributed columns of commentary in retirement, wrote his final article for The Post last Aug. 30, a front page account of his decision not to undergo heart valve replacement surgery, despite medical advice to the contrary.
        He was the author of five books: a 1973 memoir, ''First Rough Draft: A Journalist's Journal of Our Times''; ''Washington Past and Present'' (1950); ''The Nuclear Years: The Arms Race and Arms Control 1945-70'' (1970); ''The Washington Post: The First 100 Years'' (1977); and ''How Did I Get Here So Fast? Rhetorical Questions and Available Answers From a Long and Happy Life'' (1991).
        Chalmers McGeagh Roberts was born in Pittsburgh on Nov. 18, 1910, graduated from Amherst in 1933 and worked as a reporter for The Associated Press and for The Toledo News-Bee. In the mid-1930's, he and a college friend, Alfred Friendly, later The Post's managing editor, toured Europe and America, taking odd jobs to make ends meet.
        In 1938, he joined The Japan Times, an English-language publication, reporting from Korea, China and Mongolia. He then worked for The Washington Daily News, The Washington Times-Herald, the Office of War Information and The Washington Star before joining The Post.
        His wife, Lois Hall Roberts, died in 2001. Besides his son Christopher, of Chevy Chase, Mr. Roberts is survived by a son, David H., of Newton, Mass.; a daughter, Patricia R. Monahan, of Alexandria, Va.; and nine grandchildren.
      