
        John F. White, president emeritus of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art and an architect of public broadcasting in the United States, died on Friday at his home in Virginia Beach. He was 87. A former resident of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., he also had a home in Sarasota, Fla.
        His death was announced by his family.
        Mr. White was president of the National Educational Television and Radio Center, the forerunner of PBS, from 1958 to 1969. Then he was president of Cooper Union in Manhattan until 1980, when he became president emeritus.
        His involvement with noncommercial radio and television began in 1955, when, fresh from a vice presidency at Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve), he arrived in Pittsburgh to become general manager of WQED. Founded the year before, WQED Pittsburgh was the country's first community-owned television station and a promising source of original programming for educational television.
        The Fund for Adult Education had created the National Educational Television and Radio Center in 1952, mostly as a clearinghouse for university-based stations to exchange programs. In 1954, the center began producing five hours of its own programs, which it recorded on kinescope and mailed to stations. It also hired a full-time president, Harry K. Newburn, whom Mr. White succeeded.
        Under Mr. White, the center moved from Ann Arbor, Mich., to New York, dropped its radio programming and, with seed money from the United States Office of Education and the Ford Foundation, grew into NET, National Educational Television.
        By the time Mr. White left the organization, it had 161 affiliated stations across the country, to which it fed television programming divided about equally between culture and public affairs.
        When Mr. White left broadcasting to become president of Cooper Union, the college was in financial straits. He led it through a contentious period of austerity, retrenchment and reorganization in which some degree programs were dropped, the staff was cut, and the bookstore was eliminated.
        But Mr. White was also a prodigious fund-raiser. He oversaw a makeover of Cooper Union's physical plant, including the historic Foundation Building; turned the School of Architecture into an autonomous unit; established a full-time master's degree in engineering; and expanded the Computer Center.
        John Francis White was born in Waukegan, Ill., on Oct. 11, 1917. He graduated in 1941 with a degree in political science from Lawrence College and stayed on there as an admissions counselor. After receiving a master's degree at the University of Chicago in 1944, he became director of admissions at the Illinois Institute of Technology. He moved to Western Reserve in 1950.
        In his five years there, he helped shape the concept of television as an educational medium. To pursue that interest full time, he moved to Pittsburgh and the venture at WQED.
        In New York he was active in many organizations, serving as a trustee of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, the General Theological Seminary, Bard College and the United Negro College Fund, among others.
        Mr. White is survived by his wife of 61 years, Joan Glasow White; a daughter, Susan W. Sherman of Norfolk, Va.; a son, Christopher S. White of Singapore; a brother, R. Patrick White of Spanish Fort, Ala.; eight grandchildren; and two great-granddaughters.
      