
        Norbert Brainin, the founding first violinist of the Amadeus Quartet, a string quartet that played together in the same constellation for 40 years and was one of the most active and most recorded of its day, died on April 10 in Harrow, England. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said Peter Craik of the Royal Academy of Music in London.
        An old-school violinist who had the skills of a soloist, Mr. Brainin brought a Viennese sensibility to Viennese music, playing with a distinctive flair and leading his quartet through the core repertory of Brahms, Beethoven, Schubert and Mozart in performances sometimes branded masterful, sometimes sentimental. Although the group was not notably committed to contemporary music, Benjamin Britten did write his third quartet for them, his last major work, in 1975-76.
        Mr. Brainin was also something of a character, mercurial, absent-minded, single-minded in his passions (which included soccer) and a great raconteur.
        Norbert Brainin was born on March 12, 1923, in Vienna and was given a violin when he was 7, after he heard a performance by the young Yehudi Menuhin.
        His parents died when he was young, and in 1938, after the Anschluss, his family emigrated to England, where he was briefly held in an internment camp during World War II. It was there that he met Peter Schidlof, who became the quartet's violist. Mr. Schidlof subsequently met another violinist in the camp, Siegmund Nissel; after the war, all three became students of Max Rostal. Through a fellow student, Suzanne Rosza, they met her husband, the cellist Martin Lovett.
        The quartet made its debut as the Brainin Quartet in 1947; it changed its name to Amadeus the next year. Mr. Brainin made his solo debut in 1948 in the Beethoven concerto with the London Philharmonic; but chamber music quickly became his primary focus, although he and Schidlof often appeared together as the two soloists in Mozart's Sinfonia concertante. The group quickly rose to prominence and recorded extensively, including versions of Schubert's ''Trout'' quintet with both Emil Gilels and Clifford Curzon, and cycles of Brahms, Mozart and Beethoven.
        After Schidlof's death in 1987, the three remaining members continued performing separately and taught at a summer academy through the Royal Academy, where they were professors; they also held professorships at the conservatory in Cologne, Germany. In 2003 Mr. Brainin appeared at Wigmore Hall in a concert for his 80th birthday.
        He is survived by a wife, Katinka, and a daughter, Ann.
        One of his former violins, the Gibson Stradivarius, is now owned by Joshua Bell.
      