
        Clement Meadmore, a sculptor who wrestled hulking lengths of steel into abstract artworks of arresting fluidity and lightness, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Peter Rose, a New York art dealer who represented him.
        A native of Australia who moved to the United States in the 1960's, Mr. Meadmore was renowned internationally for for his massive outdoor pieces made of square-sided steel beams bent or coiled into sinuous forms. Monumental in scale -- some were 25 feet tall, others 45 feet long -- his sculptures can be found on college campuses, at corporate headquarters and in the collections of major museums around the world.
        With their stark power and smooth, black-painted surfaces, Mr. Meadmore's sculptures combined Minimalism's devotion to pure geometric form with the evocative powers of Abstract Expressionism. They were also influenced by the rhythms and improvisational quality of jazz, an art form he passionately admired. His best pieces were studies in line, form, movement and balance, played out at epic scale.
        Many of his sculptures are so large they are meant to be walked around, ducked under, perhaps even sat in, and are heavy enough to be installed by crane. Still, they have a dynamic quality that belies their heft: some appear to soar weightlessly into space while others have the pent-up energy of coiled springs.
        Clement Lyon Meadmore was born in Melbourne on Feb. 9, 1929. At the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, he studied aeronautical engineering before switching to industrial design. In the 1950's, while working as a furniture designer, he made his first welded sculptures.
        In 1963, Mr. Meadmore resettled in New York, where he came under the influence of the painter Barnett Newman. Inspired in part by Newman's uninterrupted expanses of saturated color, Mr. Meadmore gradually renounced the more open, airy sculpture that Picasso and his followers had made de rigueur. Mr. Meadmore's work, by contrast, helped signal sculpture's renewed concern with denser forms.
        Although Mr. Meadmore worked mostly in steel and occasionally in bronze, in a sense his real medium was geometry itself. Rather than mold pure form out of clay -- there was little challenge in that -- he painstakingly coaxed it from unforgiving hunks of metal.
        Working at his kitchen table with small-scale maquettes of rigid polyester, Mr. Meadmore might labor over a sculpture for as long as a year, changing the angle of a bend ever so slightly, turning the model over and over in his hands until he was satisfied its proportions were exactly right. (For Mr. Meadmore, a visit to friends who did not share his eye for composition could be torture. As the evening progressed, he would suffer silently until he finally had to get up, rehang a few pictures and move the sofa an inch or two.)
        A serious amateur drummer, he was also known for the monthly jam sessions, frequented by important jazz musicians and cognoscenti, that he held in his home. His debt to American popular music is evident in the titles of many of his sculptures: ''All of Me,'' ''Sophisticated Lady,'' ''Round Midnight.''
        Mr. Meadmore was divorced twice. He is survived by a brother, Roger; a sister, Ros; a son, Quentin; and one grandchild, all of whom live in Australia.
        His work is displayed on the campuses of Columbia and Princeton Universities and at the Empire State Plaza in Albany, and is part of the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Gallery of Australia and other institutions. He wrote several books, including ''How to Make Furniture Without Tools'' (Pantheon, 1975) and ''The Modern Chair: Classic Designs by Thonet, Breuer, Le Corbusier, Eames and Others'' (Dover, 1997). His work was the subject of a book by Eric Gibson, ''The Sculpture of Clement Meadmore'' (Hudson Hills Press, 1994).
        Although his sculpture was often described as gestural, Mr. Meadmore was adamant that it did not depict anything or even stand for anything. His art was about the possibility of form, and only that.
        ''I'm not interested in metaphors of infinity or of anything else,'' he told Time magazine in 1971. ''I have to start with a real object, a thing -- and then try to let it transcend its physicality.''
      