
        Mason Adams, a ubiquitous character actor in radio, television, movies and the theater whose crotchety but reassuring tone of voice was as famous as his face, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 86.
        He died of natural causes, his daughter Betsy said.
        Mr. Adams worked as much off screen as he did on camera, and won his first starring roles in the radio serials of the 1940's and 50's. Long after his radio days, he found fame again on the successful television series ''Lou Grant.'' As he grew older, he took more frequent roles in the theater. His last play was the Roundabout Theater production of ''The Man Who Had All the Luck,'' by Arthur Miller, in 2002.
        Throughout his career, he lent his voice, with its trace of sandpaper, to commercials and documentaries. But he was best known as the warmhearted managing editor of The Los Angeles Tribune in the television series ''Lou Grant,'' starring Ed Asner in the title role, which ran for five seasons, from 1977 to 1982. He received three Emmy Award nominations for his role.
        Despite his persistently fatherly image, Mr. Adams also played some bad guys, as he did in a 1953 episode of the radio show ''Gangbusters'' and in the film ''F/X,'' a 1986 thriller that became a surprise hit.
        Mason Adams was born in Brooklyn. He received his master's degree from the University of Wisconsin and then returned to New York, where he taught speech for several years at the Neighborhood Playhouse on East 54th Street. He started getting bigger acting roles on the radio in the 1940's, and was the star of the soap opera ''Pepper Young's Family.'' He also starred in several episodes of ''Superman'' on radio, playing the Kryptonite-wielding Atom Man.
        In 1957 he married Margot Fine-berg. They lived in Westport, Conn., and Manhattan. She survives him, along with his daughter, Betsy, and his son, Bill, both of Manhattan.
        Mr. Adams's voice became synonymous with the J.M. Smucker Company, which featured him in its jam and jelly commercials for more than 30 years. His trademark line -- ''With a name like Smucker's, it has to be good'' -- was so often repeated that the writers of ''Saturday Night Live'' wrote a skit spoofing it.
      