
        J. Carter Bacot, the former chairman and chief executive of the Bank of New York who transformed it from a traditional bank into a powerhouse in servicing other banks and the securities markets, died on Thursday at his home in Montclair, N. J. He was 72.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, a spokesman for the Bank of New York said.
        Mr. Bacot (pronounced BAY-co) oversaw the transformation of Bank of New York from a traditional retail bank engaged in commercial lending and the credit card business into a leader in the global securities servicing and processing arena, the backbone of the world's stock and bond markets.
        Mr. Bacot was known in the industry for his willingness to challenge accepted practices. His most notable deal at the bank was the landmark 1988 merger with the Irving Corporation. At the time it was the largest bank merger ever undertaken, and was a hostile takeover in an era and an industry in which hostile deals were not done.
        The 376-day battle for Irving faced innumerable regulatory and logistical hurdles, including the crash of the stock market, many lawsuits that were brought by Irving (including one against the Federal Reserve after it approved of the deal) and a last-minute offer from a white knight, which threatened to undo the deal.
        ''At a time when everyone said you can never do a hostile bank deal, and people said a deal of that size doesn't make sense, he was the one to have the foresight to see the extraordinary potential in the transaction and having seen that, he was determined to see it through,'' said Rodgin Cohen, a lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell, who worked closely with Mr. Bacot and the Bank of New York for more than 35 years.
        Mr. Bacot turned the Bank of New York from an old-line banking institution into a dominant force in an admittedly unglamorous but necessary part of the banking industry: global securities processing, the business of housing and moving securities around the world.
        While Mr. Bacot was chairman, the bank's assets increased to $60 billion from $11.5 billion and its net annual income rose to $1.1 billion from $58 million.
        Born in 1933 in Utica, N.Y., John Carter Bacot graduated from Hamilton College in 1955 and Cornell Law School in 1958.
        He joined the Bank of New York in 1960 and at various times was the head of the bank's investment research and personal trust departments.
        Mr. Bacot was named vice chairman of the holding company in 1975 and president in 1979. He was the chairman and chief executive from 1982 until 1998 and remained on the board until 2003.
        In addition to serving on many corporate boards, Mr. Bacot was on the board of the New York Philharmonic for 16 years and was a life trustee and chairman emeritus of Hamilton College.
        He is survived by his wife, Shirley Schou; two daughters, Susan Bacot and Betsy Bacot-Aigner; and two grandsons.
      