
        Alan Dundes, an internationally renowned folklorist who explored -- rigorously, engagingly and often provocatively -- a vast spectrum of human custom and belief, died on Wednesday after collapsing while teaching at the University of California, Berkeley. He was 70 and lived in Berkeley.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to the university, where he had been a member of the anthropology department for more than four decades.
        Widely credited with helping to shape modern folklore scholarship, Dr. Dundes was best known for his Freudian interpretations of everything from jokes and folktales to cockfighting and contact sports.
        ''As a psychoanalytic folklorist,'' he once wrote, ''my professional goals are to make sense of nonsense, find a rationale for the irrational and seek to make the unconscious conscious.''
        Among his many books are ''The Shabbat Elevator and Other Sabbath Subterfuges'' (Rowman & Littlefield, 2002); ''Why Don't Sheep Shrink When It Rains? A Further Collection of Photocopier Folklore'' (Syracuse University, 2000, with Carl R. Pagter); and ''Cracking Jokes: Studies of Sick Humor Cycles & Stereotypes'' (Ten Speed Press, 1987).
        Naturally, Dr. Dundes studied traditional folklore genres like superstitions, fairy tales, riddles and proverbs. But he also turned his scholarly attention to flourishing strains of popular culture, including chain letters, light-bulb jokes and bathroom graffiti.
        Customs like these, Dr. Dundes observed, were windows on the social and psychological landscape. ''Folklore furnishes a socially sanctioned outlet for cultural pressure points and individual anxieties,'' he wrote in ''Interpreting Folklore'' (Indiana University, 1980).
        Few aspects of culture escaped his scrutiny. If people did it, said it, made it, wrote it, or believed in it, Dr. Dundes wanted to know why. He examined the folklore of wishing wells; the theme of the walled-up wife (think ''Jane Eyre''); the psychological underpinnings of sick jokes (think Helen Keller); Choctaw tongue-twisters; the pervasiveness in American culture of the number three (think bears, little pigs, little kittens); Turkish verbal dueling rhymes; the psychoanalytic implications of the bullroarer; ethnic stereotyping; and the humorous folklore-on-paper born of the office copy machine.
        ''Folklore is not a matter of running down little wart cures,'' Dr. Dundes told The New York Times in 1985. ''It is a serious subject that deals with the essence of life.''
        Alan Dundes was born in New York City on Sept. 8, 1934. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in English from Yale and, in 1962, a Ph.D. in folklore from Indiana University. He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1963.
        Dr. Dundes was so highly regarded as a teacher that in 2000, a former student sent him a check for $1 million; he used it to endow a distinguished professorship in folklore at Berkeley. In 2001, he became the first folklorist elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Dundes is survived by his wife, Carolyn; a son, David, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; two daughters: Lauren Dundes Streiff of Owings Mills, Md., and Alison Dundes Renteln of Altadena, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
        Where folklorists of the past had concentrated on amassing data, taking to the hills to collect stories and ballads, Dr. Dundes stressed the need for interpretation and analysis. ''The problem is that the fundamental question of meaning is never raised or discussed at all,'' he wrote in ''Interpreting Folklore.'' ''Why should a particular custom or belief like the evil eye exist in the first place?''
        Dr. Dundes was sometimes criticized for taking the psychoanalytic approach to unverifiable extremes. In one article, for example, he offered a psychosexual reading of the Apollo moon landing. (''Apollo the sun is the brother of Diana the moon. Thus mythologically speaking we have a brother trying to reach or land on his sister.'')
        But he maintained that such an approach could reveal the hidden layers of meaning beneath popular practices. Take ethnic stereotyping. In many jokes told by Americans, the English are portrayed as stuffy, blundering and humorless. These jokes, Dr. Dundes argued, reflect Americans' residual feelings of inferiority as former British colonials. Consider the following:
        ''A man named Strange dies. According to his wishes, he is buried under a blank tombstone. People walk by, see the blank tombstone and say, 'That's strange.' Each visitor to the town would be shown the stone and told the story. An Englishman saw it, heard the story and recounts the incident to friends upon his return to England: A man named Strange dies. According to his wishes, he is buried under a blank tombstone. People would walk by, see the blank tombstone and say, 'How very peculiar!'''
      