
       Bonita Granville Wrather, a child film star of the 1930's and a longtime executive in the Wrather Corporation, a complex of oil, entertainment and real estate businesses founded by her husband, Jack Wrather, died of cancer yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 65 years old and had homes in Holmby Hills, Calif., and
        Bonita Granville Wrather, a child film star of the 1930's and a longtime executive in the Wrather Corporation, a complex of oil, entertainment and real estate businesses founded by her husband, Jack Wrather, died of cancer yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 65 years old and had homes in Holmby Hills, Calif., and London.
        As Bonita Granville, the actress was the epitome of malevolent little girls, particularly in ''These Three,'' Lillian Hellman's heterosexual film adaptation of her play about lebsianism, ''The Children's Hour.'' The performance won the actress a 1936 Oscar nomination.
        Among her more than 50 other movies were ''Ah, Wilderness!'' (1935), ''The Plough and the Stars'' (1937), ''Maid of Salem'' (1937), ''Quality Street'' (1937), ''Now Voyager'' (1942) and ''Hitler's Children'' (1943). The spunky blond actress also played the inquisitive title role in the ''Nancy Drew'' detective-reporter series. A Family of Entertainers
        She was born in Manhattan on Feb. 2, 1923, into a family of entertainers and went on the stage at 3. She became a leading lady in films of the late 40's and retired from the screen in 1947 to marry Mr. Wrather. She appeared occasionally in television plays and, in 1958, became the associate producer of her husband's popular ''Lassie'' television series and later its producer.
        Mr. Wrather was a founding member of the ''kitchen cabinet'' of prominent Californians who encouraged Ronald Reagan to run for Governor in 1967, and he and his wife were close friends of the Reagans. In a statment by the White House yesterday, the President and his wife lauded Mrs. Wrather as ''a warm and caring friend'' who had for so many years ''enriched our lives with her sparkling personality, her wonderful sense of humor, her loyalty and her love.''
        Mrs. Wrather held a series of major executive posts in the Wrather Corporation and succeeded her husband as board chairman after his death in 1984, holding the post until last January, when the company was sold to the Walt Disney Company and Industrial Equity (Pacific) Limited, a Hong Kong investment concern. Civic Appointments
        Mrs. Wrather was the chairman of the American Film Institute, a trustee of the John F. Kennedy Center and of Loyola Marymount University, a director and former president of the Los Angeles Orphanage Guild, a member of the advisory committee of the Children's Bureau of Los Angeles, a founder and board member of the Los Angeles Music Center and a board member of the Women's Council of the Public Broadcasting Service's Channel 28 there.
        For her work on the ''Lassie'' television series and for talks around the country in behalf of environmental conservation, Mrs. Wrather received a Boy Scouts of America National Award and a National 4-H Congress Conservation Award.
        Surviving are two daugthers, Molly Dolle and Linda Finocchiaro; a son, Christopher, and nine grandchildren, all of the Los Angeles area.
      