
       David Zelinka, a former producer of women's coats and suits and a chairman of the Fashion Institute of Technology, died of liver failure yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old.
        David Zelinka, a former producer of women's coats and suits and a chairman of the Fashion Institute of Technology, died of liver failure yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Zelinka literally grew up in the fashion business on the Lower East Side. He was born in the fitting room of his parents' dress shop on Clinton Street, where the fitting room doubled as a bedroom at night.
        After attending New York University for three years, he worked as a salesman and assistant in the women's garment industry. In 1929, he founded his own outerwear company. Six years later, joining with Max Matlick, he founded Zelinka-Matlick Inc., a women's coat and suit producer that became an industry leader and continued in business for 40 years.
        Mr. Zelinka, who survived his partner by one year, was an enthusiastic and creative executive who was able to bring together producers, designers and retailers to work on problems, whether for business or charitable causes.
        He also visited Paris twice a year to gather ideas for his line. But he spurned the concept of slavish copies of the French designs. ''I don't call them line-for-line copies,'' he said in an interview in 1964, ''because I don't care to retrace the mistakes of other designers. I'd rather call them adaptations or interpretations.''
        After closing his business, he formalized his long association with the Fashion Institute of Technology. He became its chairman and chairman of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries at F.I.T. He was also president of the New York Coat and Suit Association and philanthropic drives.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Ruth Tiplitz; a son, Robert, of Boca Raton, Fla.; a daughter, Janet Greenman, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a sister, Helen Kahn of Roslyn, L.I., and four grandchildren. Services will be at 2:30 today at the Riverside, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street.
      