
       Ken Murray, an actor and comedian who spent more than a quarter century in vaudeville and in films, died Wednesday in Burbank, Calif. He was 85 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        Ken Murray, an actor and comedian who spent more than a quarter century in vaudeville and in films, died Wednesday in Burbank, Calif. He was 85 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        His film career began in the 1930's and continued until the late 1960's. Among his films was the 1962 motion picture ''The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance,'' with John Wayne and James Stewart.
        He drew on his experience in vaudeville to produce a highly successful review, ''Ken Murray's Blackout,'' which ran from 1942 to 1949.
        Using some of the hammiest tricks known to vaudeville, he paraded numerous acts out on the stage, including acrobats, trained dogs, whistlers, warblers, hoofers, drummers, fiddlers, mimics and a chorus line of young as well as old women. Mr. Murray would improvise along with his performers.
        The members of the audience, at times, included Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, W. C. Fields, Mickey Rooney, Edgar Bergen, Dick Powell and Rudy Vallee. They would leave their seats and take over the stage, joining the dancing chorines. Academy Award for fantasy
        Mr. Murray produced ''Bill & Coo,'' a feature-length fantasy film about birds, which received a special Academy Award in 1947 for ''novel and entertaining use'' of film.
        He later took his variety act to television, where he produced, directed and starred in ''The Ken Murray Show,'' ''Hollywood Without Makeup,'' ''Hollywood, My Home Town'' and ''El Coyote.''
        He captured the golden age of Hollywood in homemade 16-mm. movies, which he later edited and called ''Ken Murray's Shooting Stars.'' The film, made of footage he recorded over 38 years, included candid scenes of the day-to-day lives of his contemporaries.
        Mr. Murray was a second-generation entertainer. His father, Jack Doncourt, was a noted vaudevillian at the turn of the century.
        Born in Nyack, N.Y., on July 14, 1903, Ken Murray made his first appearance on stage at the age of 20 as a straight man. He was soon working as a comedian, his face in the microphone with a cigar in his mouth.
        He made his motion picture debut in ''Half-Marriage'' in 1929. Other films included ''Leathernecking'' and ''You're A Sweetheart'' in 1937; ''A Night at Earl Carroll's'' in 1940; ''Juke Box Jenny'' in 1942; ''Son of Flubber'' in 1963 and ''The Power'' in 1968.
      