
       Dr. B. Frank Polk, a leader in AIDS research who was a professor of epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health in Baltimore, died of a brain tumor yesterday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 46 years old.
        Dr. B. Frank Polk, a leader in AIDS research who was a professor of epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health in Baltimore, died of a brain tumor yesterday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 46 years old.
        Under Dr. Polk's direction, Johns Hopkins became a center for research on ways to control the AIDS epidemic. In the last several years he conducted studies tracing the spread of the disease in the United States and around the world.
        Among his studies still in progress are ones dealing with the heterosexual transmission of AIDS and the risk of AIDS virus infection among recipients of screened blood, prison inmates, intravenous drug users and mothers and their unborn chldren.
        Dr. Polk directed the AIDS outpatient clinic at Johns Hopkins Hospital, which cares for more than 700 patients, and was closely involved in inpatient AIDS treatment. He also was active in public education on the dangers of the disease, conducting seminars for school principals and making an AIDS video for public television. Multimillion-Dollar Grants
        In 1983 Dr. Polk began the Study to Help AIDS Research Efforts, which has since received multimillion-dollar grants from the National Institutes of Health.
        Despite the resources being devoted to AIDS research, he often expressed frustration with the slowness of the process: the drugs that turn out to be ineffective, the genetic hypotheses that are not tenable and the blind alleys that must be abandoned.
        ''The only thing to do,'' he said in an interview with the publication Public Health, ''is to try again.''
        Dr. Polk was the author of more than 90 scientific articles and the co-author of 11 books and monographs. He was a fellow of the Infectious Disease Society of America and the Council on Epidemiology of the American Heart Association. He served on several national and regional scientific task forces dealing with the AIDS crisis. Research on Other Diseases
        Dr. Polk, a professor of medicine and of obstetrics and gynecology at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, did research not only in the epidemiology of infectious diseases but also in such areas as reproductive diseases, high blood pressure and cancer.
        He was born in San Angelo, Tex., was a graduate of the University of Texas and earned his medical degree at the Baylor College of Medicine. He also received a master of science degree from the Harvard School of Public Health, and taught at Harvard Medical School before joining Johns Hopkins in 1982.
        Dr. Polk, who lived in Baltimore, is survived by his wife, the former Kathleen Gelinas, and two daughters, Sarah and Genevieve.
      