
       Hannah Tillich, whose vivid but unblinking remembrance of four decades as the wife of Paul Tillich scandalized some of his fellow theologians in 1973, died Thursday at Southampton Hospital after suffering a heart attack. Aged 92, she had lived in East Hampton, L.I., since her husband's death.
        Hannah Tillich, whose vivid but unblinking remembrance of four decades as the wife of Paul Tillich scandalized some of his fellow theologians in 1973, died Thursday at Southampton Hospital after suffering a heart attack. Aged 92, she had lived in East Hampton, L.I., since her husband's death.
        Dr. Tillich, a humane philosopher and one of modern Christianity's most influential theologians, died in 1965. The publication of his widow's book ''From Time to Time,'' shortly after upset colleagues and alienated some of the couple's relatives for years.
        Praised by reviewers for its style, imagery and candor, the book wove the tale of two lives that finally grew together, if only out of emotional exhaustion. Their paths met in Berlin's avant-garde nightlife of the 1920's and took them to America after Dr. Tillich's defiance of the Nazis. Attracted Theologian's Eye
        Mrs. Tillich, an art student, attracted the roving eye of the young theologian and sometime man-about-town at a dress ball of an art students league. After their 1924 marriage, she did not pursue a career of her own, but did published a volume of poetry while still in Germany.
        Dr. Tillich lost his university position in Frankfurt when the Nazis came to power in 1933. He was one of the first non-Jewish professors to be dismissed; he had spoken up when several hundred bullying brownshirts beat up a group of radical students.
        In the United States, he first taught at the Union Theological Seminary. There, at Harvard and the University of Chicago, he became a nationally admired figure. At his death, he was widely mourned.
        But he had had a philandering side that others preferred not to talk about. In her book, interspersed between allegorical dialogues and poetry, his widow speaks of her intense feelings and the many joys in her life, but also of her jealousies and humiliations, some of them at the hands of Dr. Tillich. Book Recounts His Affairs
        The book recounts some of his many affairs, but also her own sexual encounters, with both men and women, in plain talk about the sexual experimentation in her past. Nonetheless, the couple remained together and, with advancing age, moved toward each other.
        After his death, Mrs. Tillich locked herself in the Long Island summer home by the sea he had bought in 1946 and stitched together her account in an act of catharsis. The strong reaction to her candor surprised her and caused her to write another book, edited by her grandson Ted Farris, ''From Place to Place: Travels With Paul Tillich, Travels Without Paul Tillich.''
        Published in 1976, it brought perspective and reconciliation. After that, she also wrote a novel, ''Harbor Mouse,'' published in 1978.
        Mrs. Tillich is survived by a daughter, Dr. Erdmuthe Christiane Farris of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Rene S. Tillich of Honolulu; and four grandchildren.
      