
       Dr. George Hatem, who under the name Ma Haide became an almost legendary figure in China for his public health efforts, died on Sunday in a Beijing hospital. He was 78 years old.
        Dr. George Hatem, who under the name Ma Haide became an almost legendary figure in China for his public health efforts, died on Sunday in a Beijing hospital. He was 78 years old.
        He had fought a long battle against inflammation of the pancreas, and then succumbed to cancer and diabetes, according to the State University of New York in Buffalo, with which he had a long association.
        Born in Buffalo, he spent more than half a century in China playing a leading role in efforts to rid that country of leprosy and venereal disease.
        In 1936 he went with the writer Edgar Snow to the Communist stronghold in Yenan, deep in northern China. For the next decade he served the medical needs of the Communists' Eighth Route Army. Then, as the Communists took control in 1949, he helped organize the country's public health effort. A Model in Public Health
        His contributions were hailed in the United States by a number of awards, including, in 1986, the prestigious Albert Lasker Public Service Award. Its citation said, in part: ''Dr. Ma's contributions can be compared in importance to the eradication of yellow fever and the bubonic plague, and, as a model for the public health control of venereal diseases, they stand alone.''
        Steven B. Sample, president of the university at Buffalo, said yesterday, ''Few people in history can equal the medical successes of Dr. George Hatem.'' Over the past half century, Mr. Sample said, Dr. Hatem saved ''many millions of Chinese.''
        At an early age Dr. Hatem moved from Buffalo to Greenville, N.C., where he attended high school, then completed his premedical course at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.
        After clinical training at the American University in Beirut and earning his doctorate at the University of Geneva in Switzerland, he began practicing medicine in Shanghai. Efforts in China
        Dr. Ma prospered in Shanghai, caring chiefly for people with venereal disease, but the city was riddled with corruption and efforts to attack the disease at its sociological roots were in vain. Mr. Snow wrote that he once said, ''I didn't spend my old man's money learning to become a V.D. quack for a gangster society. Maybe these people up north are interested in putting an end to the whole business. I want to see what they're like.''
        He resolved to go to Yenan, though he was not a Communist and spoke no Chinese, Mr. Snow wrote. He was a ''missionary,'' the only one from America who volunteered for service ''on the other side of the river.''
        In his book ''Inside China Today,'' Dr. E. Grey Dimond reports that Dr. Hatem was secretly granted Chinese citizenship in the 1950's, but retained his American passport into the 1960's. Despite his reputation as the most loved American in China, he was denounced during the Cultural Revolution as a ''bourgeois lackey.''
        In Yenan Dr. Hatem met his future wife, Chou Sufei, an actress who is now a film director in Beijing. Also surviving are a son, Chou Sufei; a daughter, Liang Bi; Dr. Hatem's sister, Shafia Hatem, of Roanoke Rapids, N.C., and four grandchildren.
      