
       Algo D. Henderson, a former president of Antioch College and one of the principal planners of the State University of New York, died of cancer Thursday at Kaiser Hospital in San Francisco. He was 91 years old and lived in Orinda, Calif.
        Algo D. Henderson, a former president of Antioch College and one of the principal planners of the State University of New York, died of cancer Thursday at Kaiser Hospital in San Francisco. He was 91 years old and lived in Orinda, Calif.
        Throughout much of his life, Dr. Henderson was an outspoken proponent of higher education. In 1936, at the age of 39, he was named president of Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, then an experimental college. One of the youngest college presidents in the nation, Dr. Henderson had served for three years as acting president of Antioch, which was the first liberal arts college in the United States to offer a work-study program. While there, he established a bronze foundry to help students learn to manage small businesses.
        Dr. Henderson was raised on his family's farm near Solomon, Kan. He attended five colleges on the earnings from several modest jobs, including that of a hotel janitor. He received a law degree from the University of Kansas and a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University.
        He served as a second lieutenant in World War I. In the late 1940's Dr. Henderson was associate director of the Temporary Commission on the Need for a State University in New York State. The commission's recommendations led to the foundation of New York's public community colleges and the establishment of the State University of New York. Dr. Henderson left Antioch in 1947 to become associate commissioner of Education for New York State, a post he held until 1950. He resigned to become a professor at the University of Michigan, where he founded the nation's first doctoral program for college administrators.
        In 1967, after retiring from the University of Michigan, he joined the Center for Research and Development in Higher Education at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Dr. Henderson wrote 14 books on education.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean Glidden; a son, Philip C., of Dallas; a daughter, Joanne H. Pratt, of Dallas; a stepdaughter, Carol Rosenberg, of Berkeley, and five grandchildren.
      