
       Edward Chodorov, a Broadway playwright and the author or producer of some 50 motion pictures, died on Sunday after a brief illness at his home in New York City. He was 84 years old.
        Edward Chodorov, a Broadway playwright and the author or producer of some 50 motion pictures, died on Sunday after a brief illness at his home in New York City. He was 84 years old.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Chodorov became stage struck in his early youth.
        After briefly attending Brown University, Mr. Chodorov and his friends Moss Hart and S. J. Perelman preferred going to the Automat to concoct schemes for breaking into show business to more formal education, according to Moss Hart's autobiography, ''Act One.'' When Hart finally became a secretary in a theatrical booking agency, he was able to get Mr. Chodorov a job as stage manager for a production of ''Abie's Irish Rose,'' then a similar job in a touring production of ''Is Zat So.'' A Satire on Holllywood
        The backstage expertise he gained led Mr. Chodorov to Hollywood, where he found work in the publicity department of Columbia Pictures. He then satirized the madhouse world of the film colony in the farce ''Wonder Boy,'' which he wrote with Arthur Barton. Jed Harris produced the play on Broadway in 1931.
        Among the films Mr. Chodorov wrote or produced were ''The Story of Louis Pasteur,'' in which Paul Muni won an Academy Award; ''Craig's Wife,'' with Rosalind Russell and Billie Burke; ''The Hucksters,'' with Clark Gable, Deborah Kerr, Ava Gardner and Sydney Greenstreet, and ''Road House,'' with Ida Lupino and Richard Widmark.
        In 1935, Mr. Chodorov wrote and directed ''Kind Lady,'' a dramatization of a story by Hugh Walpole that has since become a fixture on the summer theater circuit and was twice made into a film. During World War II, his plays ''Those Endearing Young Charms,'' ''Decision'' and ''Common Ground'' played on Broadway. Blacklisted in 1953
        In 1953, Mr. Chodorov was blacklisted by the Hollywood studios for his failure to cooperate with the House Committee on Un-American Activities after having been identified as a Communist Party member by the choreographer Jerome Robbins. The same year his most successful play, ''Oh, Men! Oh, Women!'' opened to critical and popular acclaim on Broadway. Starring Betsy von Furstenberg, Franchot Tone, Gig Young and Anne Jackson, the offbeat comedy poked fun at the world of psychoanalysis.
        Mr. Chodorov is survived by his wife, Rosemary; two children, Stephen, of Weston, Conn., and Ginger Montel, of New York City; his brother, Jerome, and two grandchildren.
      