
       Generoso P. Pope Jr., the millionaire owner and publisher of The National Enquirer, suffered a heart attack yesterday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla., and was pronounced dead on arrival at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Atlantis, Fla. He was 61 years old.
        Generoso P. Pope Jr., the millionaire owner and publisher of The National Enquirer, suffered a heart attack yesterday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla., and was pronounced dead on arrival at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Atlantis, Fla. He was 61 years old.
        Mr. Pope, whose father founded Il Progresso, the New York City Italian-language newspaper, bought a weekly newspaper, The New York Enquirer, in 1952 for $75,000. It had a circulation of 17,000 copies and a focus on politics, sports, personalities and the theater.
        Mr. Pope converted the paper into a tabloid and turned its pages into a showcase of the bizarre, with tales of mutilation, sadism, murder and gory accidents. Its name was changed to reflect its growing national readership, and by the mid-1960's the paper was making huge profits and its circulation had climbed to nearly a million.
        But in the belief that its market had been saturated, Mr. Pope in the late 1960's put The Enquirer into the nation's supermarkets and began aiming at a readership that included housewives. Sharply altering the editorial policy, he eliminated gore and began packing the pages with consumerism, entertainment and inspiration. Religion, U.F.O.'s, Clairvoyants
        The new formula featured articles by religious leaders like the Rev. Billy Graham and pieces on extrasensory perception, unidentified flying objects and practical advice ranging from what to do about loneliness to how to avoid pneumonia. There were also frequent articles featuring predictions by clairvoyants.
        Mr. Pope, who personally approved every article that went into the paper, moved The Enquirer from New York City to Englewood Cliffs, N.J., in 1968, and to Lantana, Fla., in 1971. It has 243 employees and a circulation of more than 4.5 million. A privately held corporation, its profits are not published.
        Generoso Paul Pope Jr. was born in New York City on Jan. 13, 1927, the son of Generoso and Catherine Richichi Pope. He attended the Horace Mann School and graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1946 at the age of 19.
        From 1947 to 1951 Mr. Pope was editor of Il Progresso, which he inherited, along with other businesses, after his father died in 1950. He sold Il Progresso in 1980. Mr. Pope was a member of the Board of Higher Education, the governing body of the City University of New York, from 1950 to 1954, and since 1972 had been a trustee of the J.F.K. Medical Center.
        Mr. Pope was married three times. His first wife, Patricia McManus, died, and his second marriage, to Edith Moore, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Lois Berrodin; his mother; two brothers, Fortunato, a Connecticut resident, and Anthony, of New York City; two sons, Paul, of Lantana, and Generoso 3d, of Mahwah, N.J., and four daughters, Michele Ritter, of Boston, Maria Kessel and Lorraine Pope, both of Manalapan, Fla., and Gina Pope of Knoxville, Tenn.
      