
       Dr. Robert E. Gross, a cardiovascular surgeon who did pioneering work in the field of cardiac surgery, died Tuesday at the Newfield House Nursing Home in Plymouth, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. Robert E. Gross, a cardiovascular surgeon who did pioneering work in the field of cardiac surgery, died Tuesday at the Newfield House Nursing Home in Plymouth, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        In 1938, when Dr. Gross was still a surgical resident at the Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston, he performed the first surgical correction of one of the most common congenital heart disorders in children. Operating on a 7-year-old girl, he closed the opening between the aorta and an artery of the lung, which usually closes after birth.
        In 1948 he was the first surgeon to graft artery tissue from one person into another, thus enabling the repair of damaged arteries and blood vessels.
        Dr. Gross became chief of the Children's Hospital cardiac program in 1966. When he retired in 1972 he was the William E. Ladd Professor of Child Surgery at Harvard Medical School.
        He was born in Baltimore and graduated from Carleton College and Harvard Medical School. Dr. Gross, who was a member of the medical faculty at Harvard from 1934 to 1972, also served on the staff of Peter Bent Brigham Hospital as well as Children's Hospital. Won Lasker Award Twice
        He received the Albert Lasker Award in 1954 and again in 1959, becoming the only physician at that time to win the award twice.
        Dr. Gross was a founding member of the American Board of Surgery and the American Board of Thoracic Surgery. He also was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a former board member of the American Academy of Pediatrics and a former member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Society of University Surgeons.
        He was elected to the American Pediatric Hall of Fame, and the Belgian Government made him a grand officer of the Order of Leopold after he performed surgery on Prince Alexandre, the son of Belgium's former King Leopold III.
        Dr. Gross was co-author of ''Abdominal Surgery of Infancy and Childhood'' and author of ''The Surgery of Infancy and Childhood.''
        Surviving are two daughters, Marcie Oxman of La Jolla, Calif., and Edith Smith of Laguna Beach, Calif.
      