
       Dr. Frank Gollan, a polio victim who isolated the virus of the disease and was instrumental in inventing the first heart-lung machine, died last week with his wife, Alice, at their home in what their son said appeared to be a double suicide. He was 78, and his wife 81.  ''My father made various allusions to suicide,'' said Andy Gollan.
        Dr. Frank Gollan, a polio victim who isolated the virus of the disease and was instrumental in inventing the first heart-lung machine, died last week with his wife, Alice, at their home in what their son said appeared to be a double suicide. He was 78, and his wife 81.  ''My father made various allusions to suicide,'' said Andy Gollan. He said he believed his father and stepmother each took an overdose of pills Wednesday night.
        Dr. Gollan left a note explaining that he and his wife were concerned about their deteriorating health. The couple's bodies were discovered late Thursday afternoon.
        A spokesman for the Dade County Medical Examiner's office said the deaths would not be classified until the results of toxicology tests were available, possibly for up to two weeks.
        Dr. Gollan began his American career in Cleveland after fleeing Prague in 1938 to escape the Nazi occupation of his native Czechoslovakia. He came to the United States and qualified as a medical practitioner in Ohio in 1939.
        He had polio as a child and grew up determined to find a cure. His isolation of the type MM poliomyelitis virus helped other scientists develope a vaccine, said Dr. George Irvin, professor of surgery at the University of Miami.
        In the early 1950s, Dr. Gollan was a leader in developing the heart-lung machine for use in open-heart surgery. According to Dr. Irvin, it had a ''major impact on clinical medicine.''
        In the last three years, Dr. Gollan had a large brain tumor removed, suffered a heart attack and underwent two spinal operations. His wife was blind, suffered from Alzheimer's disease and was unable to walk alone.
      