
       Sir Alec Issigonis, who designed the popular, boxy ''Mini'' cars and the practically indestructible Morris Minor, died Sunday at his home in Birmingham. He was 81 years old and had suffered from Parkinson's disease.
        Sir Alec Issigonis, who designed the popular, boxy ''Mini'' cars and the practically indestructible Morris Minor, died Sunday at his home in Birmingham. He was 81 years old and had suffered from Parkinson's disease.
        Sir Alec, a son of Greek merchants who was born in Turkey and moved to England when he was 16, endured mocking reviews from car critics in 1959 when, as a designer for the British Motor Corporation, he took a $28 million budget and introduced the Mini.
        The car, a 10-foot-long, low-slung vehicle that seats four people comfortably - thanks to an engine installed sideways - was free of superfluous detail in an era when tail fins were in vogue. Car buyers quickly salvaged Sir Alec's reputation by snapping up the Mini. By 1964, the car was turned out at a rate of 6,000 per week, meeting the demand from buyers with strict budgets and from aristocrats who liked the Mini for its reverse-snob appeal. Sales Still Flourish
        Sales of the car are still flourishing today, although the sticker price is about 10 times the $1,500 of the originals.
        Sir Alec, who was born Alexander Arnold Issigonis, was lifelong bachelor. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1969. He once said he felt the Mini's beauty lay in its unabashed purposefulness.
        ''I've always felt that stylists such as you have in America are ashamed of a car and are preoccupied with making it look like something else, like a submarine or an airship,'' he said in an interview published in The New York Times. ''As an engineer, I revolt against this.''
        The Mini became widely popular throughout Western Europe and was imported by homesick Britons stationed in places like Hong Kong and New Delhi. But the design never caught on in the United States. Sir Alec attributed this to the American attitude that cars were status symbols and, therefore, the bigger the better.
        The Morris Minor, a related design that was produced between 1948 and 1971, appeared as both a convertible and a wood-paneled sedan. By 1964, an estimated 1,250,0000 were sold. Surviving models are cherished by collectors.
      