
       Marion W. Isbell, who founded Ramada Inc. and built it into a 500-motel chain, has died at the age of 83.
        Marion W. Isbell, who founded Ramada Inc. and built it into a 500-motel chain, has died at the age of 83.
        Mr. Isbell died at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital-Osborn on Thursday, the day Ramada unveiled a restructuring plan that includes selling off its hotel and restaurant businesses and focusing instead on its more profitable gambling casinos. The company said the plan was devised partly in response to a recent buyout offer from Chicago's Pritzker family, Ramada's largest shareholder.
        Mr. Isbell conceived the idea of building comfortable roadside inns in a cross-country trip with his wife in 1929, but it was 25 years before the plan materialized. In 1954 he and a group of Phoenix investors began buying motels, and in 1960 he decided to assemble the motels into a chain owned by a publicly held company. Two years later he became chairman of a 63-motel chain, Ramada Inns Inc.
        Under his leadership, Ramada Inns expanded to 500 motels in 45 states, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and overseas. In Cotton Fields at Age 8
        Born in Whitehaven, Tenn., in 1905, Marion William Isbell was orphaned before he was 5. He and his brothers, James and Leon, were placed in an orphanage in Memphis and then reared by relatives.
        ''I was 8 years old when I first started work in the cotton fields after school,'' he once said. ''The going rate was 50 cents for picking 100 pounds. I couldn't pick more than 10 pounds before dark, so I only earned a nickel a day.''
        Six years later Mr. Isbell dropped out of school to become an errand boy for a Memphis chemical company, earning $5 a week. At age 16 he and his brother James went on to Chicago, where he worked as a dishwasher, cook and soda jerk. From 1934 to 1946 he ran Isbell's, a string of Chicago luncheonettes.
        Mr. Isbell ran the Ramada chain as president and chief executive officer from 1962 until 1973, and retired as chairman in 1979. His son, M. William Isbell, succeeded him in both positions.
        In a statement Friday, Ramada's current chairman, Richard Snell, said, ''Marion Isbell was a pioneer in the hospitality industry and a personal mentor to me, and a dynamic and caring man whose memory we will cherish.''
        Mr. Isbell is survived by his wife, Ingrid; two sons, M. William and Robert J.; a daughter, Elaine Cook; 11 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
        Funeral services were scheduled for Saturday in Scottsdale.
      