
       Geoffrey Household, one of the British authors who helped to develop the suspense story into an art form, died Tuesday. He was 87 years old and lived near Banbury, 65 miles from London.
        Geoffrey Household, one of the British authors who helped to develop the suspense story into an art form, died Tuesday. He was 87 years old and lived near Banbury, 65 miles from London.
        His best-known novel, ''Rogue Male,'' was published in 1939 by Little, Brown. It is a psychological story of an unnamed English sportsman from an aristocratic background who decides to assassinate the dictator of an unnamed Central European country. Captured, tortured and left for dead by the dictator's secret police, the sportsman escapes to England, where he finds himself pursued by foreign agents.
        Mr. Household later said that the story line about trying to shoot a dictator presumed to be Adolf Hitler came to him because ''the man had to be dealt with, and I began to think how much I would love to kill him.''
        In 1941, the novel was adapted into a 20th Century-Fox film called ''Man Hunt,'' starring Walter Pidgeon and Joan Bennett. Wrote Romances and Screenplays
        Among a score of other Household novels are ''Arabesque,'' ''A Rough Shoot,'' ''A Time to Kill,'' ''Sabres on the Sand'' and ''Hostage: London.'' He also wrote short stories, picaresque romances, children's books and screenplays.
        In his autobiography, ''Against the Wind,'' published by Little, Brown in 1958, Mr. Household wrote that in fiction as in life, people were unreal unless he knew how they earned their living. ''I define my hero's economic background as soon as possible,'' he said. ''Then I try to drive a sort of pilot tunnel through the underground darkness of my imagination. I never sit down to this with any real trust that it can be done at all.''
        As a writer, he described himself as ''sort of a bastard by Stevenson out of Conrad.
        ''Style is enormously important to me and I do try to develop my hero as a human being in trouble,'' he said.
        Mr. Household lived the experiences of some of his heroes. Between the World Wars, he worked in the banking business in Rumania, moved to Spain to sell bananas for United Fruit Company, came to New York and wrote radio plays for children for CBS. During World War II, he served in British military intelligence in Europe and the Middle East.
        He is survived by his wife, Ilona Zsoldos-Gutman, a son and two daughters.
      