
       Felix Wankel, the inventor of the rotary engine for automobiles that bears his name and of other automotive and aeronautical equipment, died Sunday at his home in Lindau, West Germany, on Lake Constance. He was 86 years old.
        Felix Wankel, the inventor of the rotary engine for automobiles that bears his name and of other automotive and aeronautical equipment, died Sunday at his home in Lindau, West Germany, on Lake Constance. He was 86 years old.
        A research engineer who was known as a brilliant mathematician with a mechanical bent, he never received a university education. His crowning achievement, the Wankel rotary piston engine, was developed over many years between the two World Wars in a private experimental shop that Mr. Wankel had set up while he was selling scientific books for a living.
        The revolutionary engine did not became a dominant factor in automobile production, but it found a small but secure niche, notably in the Mazda motor cars produced in Japan.
        The engine has two moving parts, a triangular rotor and a single elliptical chamber. The big difference between Mr. Wankel's engine and the conventional internal combustion engine is that the Wankel has no piston and no cylinders. It is designed to generate more power in less space than conventional engines. Auto Companies Unenthusiastic
        Designing the Wankel engine was far less difficult than getting it manufactured because help from an experienced automotive company was necessary. Like countless other inventors with ideas both brilliant and bizarre, he elicited little enthusiasm among major manufacturers in his native Germany.
        It was not until the late 1950's that he finally got an audience and financial support from the N.S.U. Werke Motor Company, a small but progressive manufacturer in West Germany whose initials stand for ''Sewing Machine Union of Neckarsulm.'' Mr. Wankel developed a satisfactory prototype, but it was not until a decade later that he was able to get the engine into production for Mazda cars in Japan. The Wankel-engine Mazda was introduced in the United States in 1971.
        In the first decade, Mazda sold 200,000 rotary-engine cars in the United States, priced at up to $12,000. The RX-7 rotary line is still offered here by Mazda, with current prices ranging from $24,000 to $30,000.
        Mr. Wankel was born in 1902 in Lahr in the Black Forest; his father was a forest ranger. The family was not prosperous, and Felix was forced to go to work before finishing secondary school. He later recalled that, from his youth, he had a single gift: technical drawing.
        He never learned to drive a car; ''I was always too dreamy, and my eyesight was too poor for a driver's license.'' But he tinkered with automotive machinery whenever he could find the time, finally acquiring enough money selling books for a Heidelberg publishing house to set up the shop where he developed the rotary engine. A Start on Motorcycles
        By 1926, Mr. Wankel was able to concentrate on engineering full-time. His goal was the rotary automobile engine, but he started by experimenting with rotary valves on motorcycle engines.
        He applied for patents on his rotary concept in 1933. He had been an early follower of Hitler but quit the Nazi party in 1932. Before he got the patents, he was arrested for what he said were his attempts to uncover corruption in the party.
        His release was effected by Hans Nibel, technical director of Daimler-Benz, makers of Mercedes-Benz automobiles. Mr. Nibel gave Mr. Wankel a job doing research on sealing components, rotary valves and rotary engines. A year later he and went to the rival Bavarian Motor Works.
        In 1936 the German Air Ministry invited Mr. Wankel to continue his research in a government aviation institute. Always at odds with the authorities, he refused, but finally went to work for the German Government when Hermann Goring agreed to have a separate institute, the Wankel Test Institute, set up just for him.
        There Mr. Wankel devised a system for cooling the pistons of an aircraft engine, and later in conjunction with Mercedes-Benz developed a rotary valve for aircraft engines that was widely used in World War II. Imprisoned at War's End
        At the war's end he was imprisoned by the French occupation forces for a year and his workshop was dismantled as part of the Allied effort to prevent the defeated Germans from engaging in research work. After his release he settled in Lindau, where he continued the experiments that culminated in the successful Wankel engine. He never joined N.S.U., but was a member of a separate corporation known as Wankel-N.S.U., which held the patients and arranged licenses for production.
        Mr. Wankel remained vigorous throughout his life. Among his hobbies were rowing and running, and he maintained a prodigious work schedule, often staying at his research facility on Lake Constance until the early morning.
        Mr. Wankel's wife died in 1978. They had no children.
      