
       Samuel M. Niefeld, who as a vice president of Columbia Artists Management oversaw the careers of such artists as Kiri Te Kanawa and Kathleen Battle and was a principal organizer of touring Soviet attractions in the United States, died Saturday morning at his home in Quogue, L.I. He was 60 years old.
        Samuel M. Niefeld, who as a vice president of Columbia Artists Management oversaw the careers of such artists as Kiri Te Kanawa and Kathleen Battle and was a principal organizer of touring Soviet attractions in the United States, died Saturday morning at his home in Quogue, L.I. He was 60 years old.
        His colleagues at Columbia Artists Management said the cause of death had not been determined, although he had a history of heart disease.
        Born in Minneapolis, Mr. Niefeld was educated there and moved to New York to work in real estate. Later he was an intern at the Santa Fe Opera in New Mexico, rising to the post of box office manager.
        In the early 1960's he joined Columbia Artists Management, the country's largest classical-music management concern, first as a booking agent for its nationwide Community Concerts division. After working as an assistant to Kurt Weinhold, the company's president, and his successor, Ronald A. Wilford, Mr. Niefeld formed his own division of artists and attractions in the mid-70's and became a company vice president. Well-Known Clients
        His client list included not only Miss Te Kanawa and Miss Battle but also many other singers, among them Leona Mitchell, Maralin Niska and Maria Ewing. Other clients were such ensembles as the Rotterdam Philharmonic and the Bavarian Symphony of Munich and such instrumentalists as Lynn Harrell, the cellist, and Christopher Parkening, the guitarist.
        Mr. Niefeld was the main force at Columbia Artists in arranging the company's prestigious tours of Soviet attractions in the 1970's, among them the Bolshoi Ballet, the Moscow State Symphony and several Soviet ethnic folk arts troupes. He also introduced Vladimir Spivakov, the violinist, and Dmitri Alexeev, the pianist, to American audiences.
        In August 1987, Mr. Niefeld retired from his managerial responsibilities because of his heart condition, although he continued to work for the company as a consultant.
        Survivors include two brothers, Jaye, of Chicago, and Harold, of Los Angeles.
      