
       Lucien Ballard, a cinematographer whose sensuous images contributed to the heyday of the black-and-white film as well as the era of the three-dimensional color spectacular, died Saturday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84 years old and had been injured in an auto accident.
        Lucien Ballard, a cinematographer whose sensuous images contributed to the heyday of the black-and-white film as well as the era of the three-dimensional color spectacular, died Saturday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84 years old and had been injured in an auto accident.  In a career that spanned nearly 50 years, Mr. Ballard worked on more than 100 films with directors as disparate as Josef von Sternberg, Henry Hathaway, Raoul Walsh, Sam Peckinpah and Stanley Kubrick.
        Although Mr. Ballard's credits included two-reel comedies featuring the Three Stooges as well as 3-D efforts like ''Inferno,'' he was best known for work on such feature films as ''Crime and Punishment,'' ''Band of Angels,'' ''The Wild Bunch'' and ''True Grit.'' He received an Academy Award nomination in 1963 for his cinematography in ''The Caretakers.''
        In his review of ''True Grit,'' Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote: ''Anyone interested in what good cinematography means can compare Ballard's totally different contributions to 'The Wild Bunch' and 'True Grit.' In 'The Wild Bunch,' the camera work is hard and bleak and largely unsentimental. The images of 'True Grit' are as romantic and autumnal as its landscapes, which, in the course of the story, turn with the season from the colors of autumn to the white of winter.''
        A native of Miami, Okla., Mr. Ballard discovered the world of film making after a Paramount Studios script woman he was dating took him to a three-day party given by Clara Bow.
        Mr. Ballard was married to Merle Oberon from 1945 to 1949 and photographed five of her films, including ''The Lodger.'' His last film, before he retired in 1978, was ''Rabbit Test.''
        He is survived by a brother, two sons, six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      