
       Edward Uhlan, the founder and longtime president of Exposition Press, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at his home in Coconut Creek, Fla. He was 76 years old.
        Edward Uhlan, the founder and longtime president of Exposition Press, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at his home in Coconut Creek, Fla. He was 76 years old.
        Born in Kiev, in what is now the Soviet Union, Mr. Uhlan came to New York in 1913, the year after his birth. He graduated from high school in Manhattan and briefly attended Brooklyn College.
        In 1936 he founded Exposition Press, a company that for years was one of the leading vanity book publishers in the United States, publishing as many as several hundred books a year. Mr. Uhlan vigorously defended vanity publishing (he preferred ''subsidy publishing'' ), in which authors pay to have their books published, as the only way for books of limited appeal to find their way into print. 'A Book Is a Book'
        Exposition published ''Nurtured By Love'' by Shinichi Suzuki, the inventor of a music-teaching method, as well as numerous books by foreign statesmen and diplomats. ''People are impressed by books,'' Mr. Uhlan said in 1975. ''These days you've got to have a book or nobody believes you know anything. Most people can't tell the difference between a vanity book and a trade book anyway. A book is a book.''
        In his autobiography, ''The Rogue of Publisher's Row,'' published in 1956, Mr. Uhlan wrote of how he started his business career with a capital of $15. He also wrote ''Dynamo Jim Stiles, Pioneer of Progress,'' a biography of the former Long Island newapaper publisher and banker, and was co-author of ''Shoriki: Miracle Man of Japan,'' a biography of a publisher and statesman who was Japan's first Atomic Energy Commissioner. All three books were published by Exposition.
        Twice divorced, Mr. Uhlan is survived by his present wife, the former Leslie Panchula, of Coconut Creek, and his three children: Adam, of Pompano Beach, Fla., Linda U. Margolin of Stony Brook, L.I., and Abby Nuth of Belmont, Mass.
      