
       Sir Alec Issigonis, who designed the popular, boxy ''Mini'' cars and the practically invincible Morris Minor, died Sunday at his home in Birmingham. He was 81 years old and had suffered from Parkinson's disease.
        Sir Alec Issigonis, who designed the popular, boxy ''Mini'' cars and the practically invincible Morris Minor, died Sunday at his home in Birmingham. He was 81 years old and had suffered from Parkinson's disease.
        Sir Alec, a son of Greek merchants who was born in Turkey and moved to England when he was 16, endured mocking reviews from car critics in 1959 when, as a designer for the British Motor Corporation, he took a $28 million budget and introduced the Mini.
        The Mini, a 10-foot-long front-wheel-drive car that seats four comfortably - thanks to an engine installed sideways - was free of superfluous detail in an era when tail fins were in vogue.
        Car buyers quickly salvaged Sir Alec's reputation by snapping up the Mini. By 1964, the car was turned out at a rate of 6,000 per week, meeting the demand from buyers with strict budgets and from aristocrats who liked the Mini for its reverse-snob appeal. By 1977, four million had been sold.
        Sales of the car are flourishing today, although the sticker price is about 10 times the $1,500 of the originals.
        Sir Alec, born Alexander Arnold Issigonis, was a lifelong bachelor. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1969. He once said the Mini's beauty was its unabashed purposefulness.
        ''I've always felt that stylists such as you have in America are ashamed of a car and are preoccupied with making it look like something else, like a submarine or an airship,'' he said. ''As an engineer, I revolt against this.''
        The Mini became popular in Western Europe and was imported by homesick Britons stationed in Hong Kong and New Delhi. But the design never caught on in the United States. Sir Alec attributed this to the American view that cars were status symbols and therefore, the bigger the better.
        The Morris Minor, designed with Jack Daniels, was produced between 1948 and 1970 It appeared as a convertible and as a wood-paneled sedan. By 1964, 1,250,0000 were sold. Surviving models are cherished by collectors.
      