
       Leander Perez Jr., a former District Attorney who lost his father's legacy of power in Plaquemines Parish in fights with his brother, died of a heart attack today. He was 68 years old.
        Leander Perez Jr., a former District Attorney who lost his father's legacy of power in Plaquemines Parish in fights with his brother, died of a heart attack today. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Perez, who lived in New Orleans, apparently suffered the heart attack at a business meeting at Idlewild Plantation, the family estate in Belle Chasse, said A. R. Johnson, a close friend.
        Mr. Perez was a son of the fervent segregationist who built one of the most dominant political machines in Southern history, ruling Plaquemines for more than four decades, first as District Attorney and later as Commission Council president.
        Before dying in 1969, Judge Leander Perez - so known because he briefly held an appointed Federal judgeship at the start of his political career - saw Leander Jr. take office as District Attorney and his other son, Chalin, as Council president.
        Leander Jr., who first became District Attorney in 1960, did not run in 1984. He never announced his decision or said why he made it. He reportedly had been hospitalized that year for circulation problems.
        Mr. Perez also had serious political troubles since he and his brother began feuding in the late 1970's. In 1979 Leander Perez began investigating the parish council.
        A grand jury indicted Chalin Perez in 1981 on charges of misuse and abuse of parish property and finances. The panel was dismissed later that year, just as it was about to indict the district attorney and the family-owned Delta Development Corporation on charges of stealing millions of dollars in mineral royalties from parish-owned lands.
        Chalin Perez was ousted as parish president in 1983, the same year that a lawyer unearthed an old legal document revealing that Judge Perez had secretly acquired control of parish lands in the 1930's.
        The parish sued the Perezes, but two courts ruled that the parish had filed its lawsuit 33 years too late.
        Those courts eventually were overruled by the state Supreme Court, and the parish dropped $80 million in claims against the family in September 1987 for about $12 million and control of the oil-rich lands.
        Mr. Perez leaves his wife, Aphra, whom he married after the death of his first wife, Catherine; four children, and their children.
      