
        Kenneth B. Clark, the psychologist and educator whose 1950 report showing the destructive effect of school segregation influenced the United States Supreme Court to hold school segregation to be unconstitutional, died yesterday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 90.
        His death was reported by his daughter, Kate C. Harris.
        Dr. Clark was a leader in the civil rights movement that developed after World War II. He was the first black to earn a doctorate in psychology from Columbia University, the first to become a tenured instructor in the City College system of New York and, in 1966, the first black elected to the New York State Board of Regents.
        He wrote several influential books and articles and used his considerable prestige in academic and professional circles and as a participant on many government bodies and Congressional committees to advance the cause of integration. He battled white supremacists and black separatists alike because he believed that a ''racist system inevitably destroys and damages human beings; it brutalizes and dehumanizes them, black and white alike.''
        It was his research with black schoolchildren that became a pillar of Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 Supreme Court decision that toppled the ''separate but equal'' doctrine of racial segregation that prevailed in 21 states.
        While for decades Dr. Clark was one of the great national authorities on integration, his effect was particularly profound in New York City and New York State. Mayors and governors consulted him, and he expressed firm views about virtually every delicate racial matter from school busing to housing discrimination.
        He was often fearless and blunt about his views, and willing to change them when the empirical evidence led him to believe that his original sentiments were wrong. An early champion of a sweeping reorganization of New York City schools that gave greater control to community school boards, Dr. Clark later commented that ''the schools are no better and no worse than they were a decade ago.''
        ''In terms of the basic objective,'' he said, ''decentralization did not make a damn bit of difference.''
        Dr. Clark, who grew up in New York, gained firsthand knowledge of the effects of legally entrenched segregation in an extended visit, in the early 1950's, to Clarendon County in central South Carolina. Its school system had three times as many blacks as whites, but white students received more than 60 percent of the funds earmarked for education.
        Dr. Clark administered a test, which he had devised years earlier, to 16 of those black children, who were ages 6 to 9. He showed them a black doll and a white doll and asked them what they thought of each. Eleven of them said that the black doll looked ''bad,'' and nine of them thought that the white doll looked ''nice.'' Seven of the 16 told Dr. Clark that they actually saw themselves as being closest to the white doll in appearance when asked, ''Now show me the doll that's most like you.''
        ''These children saw themselves as inferior, and they accepted the inferiority as part of reality,'' Dr. Clark said.
        Dr. Clark's testing in Clarendon County was used by Thurgood Marshall and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in its challenge to the constitutionality of the separate-but-equal doctrine because it showed actual damage to children who were segregated and a violation of equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment.
        On May 17, 1954, the Supreme Court under Chief Justice Earl Warren announced its decision in Brown v. Board of Education, and Marshall, who had argued the case before the court, called Dr. Clark with the news. Dr. Clark recalled that Marshall told him that ''Justice Warren had specifically mentioned the psychological testimony as key.''
        Dr. Clark added: ''I confidently expected the segregation problem would be solved by 1960. That shows how naïve I was.''
        An Unwavering Insistence
        To the end, Dr. Clark remained committed to integration, although he grew more pessimistic. For this, in part, he blamed neoconservative whites who, he thought, had betrayed the civil rights struggle; those blacks who thought they could succeed in isolation from whites; politicians of both races who made empty promises; and defeatists who came to think that integration and real racial harmony were ''too difficult to achieve.''
        Renowned for the power of his oratory and writing over a career that spanned more than 50 years, Dr. Clark was uncompromising in his insistence that blacks be given equal rights and that even in the face of violence at the hands of racists, they must ''adopt a courageous, calm and confident position.''
        Besides Ms. Harris, of Lausanne, Switzerland, and Osprey, Fla., he is survived by his son, Hilton B. Clark of Manhattan, three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Dr. Clark's wife died in 1983.
        Kenneth Bancroft Clark was born in the Panama Canal Zone on July 14, 1914, the son of Arthur Bancroft Clark and Miriam Hanson Clark. His parents did not get along. Mrs. Clark yearned to return to the United States; Mr. Clark, a passenger agent with the United Fruit Company in Latin America, felt he wanted to stay where he was in order to earn a living. When Kenneth was only 5, his mother decided to leave her husband. She took Kenneth and his younger sister, Beulah, to New York City, where Mrs. Clark took a job as a seamstress in a sweatshop, struggling to pay the rent on a tenement apartment in Harlem. Later, she helped organize a union where she worked and became a shop steward for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. Mrs. Clark and Kenneth had a strong bond and years later, he would recall that she ''somehow communicated to me the excitement of people doing things together to help themselves.''
        In 1920, Kenneth entered Public School 5 in Harlem and soon thereafter switched to P.S. 139, which later also educated James Baldwin. At first, the student body reflected the fact that Harlem contained substantial populations of Irish and Italians. By the time Kenneth Clark reached the ninth grade, however, Harlem was changing and most of the students around him were black. At school, he was told to learn a trade and prepare for vocational training. Miriam Clark would have none of that. She walked into school one day, told the counselor what she thought of vocational schools and made it clear that as far as she was concerned, her son was better than that. Kenneth thus went to George Washington High School in Upper Manhattan.
        He was admitted to Howard University, where he studied political science with Dr. Ralph Bunche and where he came to admire Bertrand Russell and Albert Einstein. He earned his bachelor's degree in 1935 and returned to Howard the next year for his master's degree in psychology. He also taught at Howard for a time, but soon departed for New York, where he pursued doctoral studies at Columbia University, receiving his Ph.D. in experimental psychology in 1940.
        From 1939 to 1941 he took part in the classic study of the American Negro that was organized by Gunnar Myrdal, the Swedish economist. The study, which documented the inequalities that obtained among American whites and blacks, would be required reading in colleges and universities for years.
        In 1942, Dr. Clark served for a time in the Office of War Information, for which he traveled about the United States in order to assess morale among blacks. He returned to New York late in the year and joined the faculty of City College.
        Mamie Phipps Clark, whom he had married in 1938, also earned a doctorate in psychology from Columbia and in 1946 joined him in founding the Northside Center for Child Development, which treated children with personality disorders. At first, its services were offered only to blacks but in 1949, it became available to whites, too. That year, Dr. Clark was promoted to assistant professor of psychology at City College.
        His interest in black children's perceptions of themselves went back to 1939 and 1940, when he and his wife conducted tests with dolls in New York and Washington. In those days, Washington had a segregated school system, and the tests showed that black children in Washington had lower self-esteem than their peers in New York City.
        On another occasion, Dr. Clark was in rural Arkansas and when he asked one black child which doll was most like him, the little boy smiled and pointed to the brown doll and replied: ''That's a nigger. I'm a nigger.'' Dr. Clark said he found that ''as disturbing, or more disturbing, than the children in Massachusetts who would refuse to answer the question or who would cry and run out of the room.''
        Taken as a whole, Dr. Clark said, the results repeatedly confirmed that American society in the segregated South was telling blacks that they were ''inferior to other groups of human beings in the society.''
        Throughout the 1950's and 1960's, Dr. Clark was most active in New York City. In 1954 he had assailed the city school system with permitting de facto segregation, pointing out that because of this, especially in places like Harlem, ''children not only feel inferior but are inferior in academic achievement.'' After an investigation supported his charges, he was named to lead a Board of Education commission to see to the integration of city schools and to push for smaller classes, an enriched curriculum and better facilities in the city's slum schools.
        During this period he also served as a visiting professor both at Columbia and at the University of California, Berkeley. He became a full tenured professor in the city university system in 1960 and in 1961 won the Spingarn Medal of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People for his contributions to promoting better race relations.
        A Fight for Harlem
        In 1962, Dr. Clark organized Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited, or Haryou, in an effort to recruit educational experts to reorganize Harlem schools, provide for preschool programs and after-school remedial education and reduce unemployment among blacks who had dropped out of school. Two years later, a committee headed by Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy endorsed Haryou's work, and as a result, President Lyndon B. Johnson's administration earmarked $110 million to finance the program.
        But the program was placed under the administration of a joint organization formed by the merger of Haryou and Associated Community Teams, a pet project of Adam Clayton Powell Jr., the Harlem Congressman and minister. Mr. Powell and Dr. Clark, who served as acting chairman of Haryou-Act, clashed over the selection of an executive director. Mr. Powell charged that Dr. Clark stood to profit personally from control of the program. Dr. Clark denied this and said that Mr. Powell saw the Haryou-Act program mostly in terms of the political power it gave him.
        The struggle between the two was long and heated, and journalists reported that the two grew to despise each other, something that Dr. Clark denied.
        ''I liked him,'' Dr. Clark said of Mr. Powell. ''Adam was one of the most honest, corrupt human beings I have ever met. One of the reasons I liked Adam is that he had so few illusions.''
        Dr. Clark quoted Mr. Powell as telling him, in the middle of the controversy, ''Ah, Kenneth, stop being a child. If you come along with me, we can split a million bucks.'' Dr. Clark explained that what Mr. Powell didn't understand was: ''I didn't want any million dollars. What the hell was I going to do with a million dollars?''
        In 1950, Dr. Clark became convinced he should move his family from New York City to Westchester County. He wanted to leave Harlem because he and his wife could not bear to send their children to the public schools that he was trying so hard to improve but were failing anyhow. ''My children have only one life,'' he said.
        At the same time, he decided that perhaps the way to hasten the improvement of city schools was to decentralize them. But after the schools were decentralized, they continued their decline. Dr. Clark came to think of the decentralization experiment as a ''disaster,'' failing to achieve any of the educational objectives he had sought.
        By the 1970's, after the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and John and Robert Kennedy, and the difficulty in achieving integration in the North, many blacks were growing more wary of whites, more doubtful about overcoming prejudice and achieving racial equality. Dr. Clark was discouraged too, but he remained a firm advocate of the integration of American society. His colleagues described him as ''an incorrigible integrationist,'' convinced of the rightness of the civil rights struggle and certain that the nation could not and should not go back.
        In 1973, with a backlash to integration mounting, Dr. Clark said in an interview in The New York Times Magazine that ''one of the things that disturbs me most is the sophisticated form of intellectual white backlash,'' citing the writings of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, among others. ''In their ivory towers, they have lost all empathy with low-income people and black people. They are seeking to repudiate their own past liberal positions, fighting against their own heritage at the expense of the poor.''
        Dr. Clark said he neither admired nor respected such intellectuals and said he was ''breaking all ties with them.'' A registered Democrat, Dr. Clark went out of his way in 1976 to support the incumbent United States senator, James L. Buckley, a conservative Republican, in his unsuccessful race against Mr. Moynihan, the Democratic candidate.
        Dr. Clark's candor was evenhanded. Late in life, he said he had not been heartened by the ascendancy of blacks in public life because it had not translated into a fundamental change in the condition of ordinary black people. He said he thought white Americans admired accomplished blacks like Colin Powell as long as there were not ''too many of them'' and they did not threaten white hegemony in American society.
        He remained active and vocal. In the 1980's, he expressed anger over assertions that blacks were the cause of their own problems. In 1986, he called on the New York State Board of Regents to supersede the authority of local school boards if they chronically reported low test scores. He also spoke out on deteriorating relations between blacks and Jews, asserting that the dialogue had been too much about anti-Semitism among blacks and not enough about anti-black sentiment among the Jews.
        He irritated separatists when he quit the board of Antioch College after it agreed to black demands for the establishment of a dormitory and study program that excluded whites. And some blacks in Washington became upset with Dr. Clark, whom they had hired to evaluate their black-run school system, when he concluded that it wasn't very good and that what students needed was better teachers and tougher basic courses. He also suggested that whatever argot black children spoke in the streets, they ought to be required to use standard American English in school.
        Dr. Clark was something of a legend in the City University system. And he was quick to say what all really great teachers say: that in the process of teaching, a good professor learned more than his students.
        He retired from City University in 1975 and, looking back on more than a third of a century of work there, said he thought that the students of the 1940's and '50's had been better at asking probing questions. Dr. Clark was not so impressed with the students of the 1960's and said he thought their revolution ''was pure fluff.'' He also retired from the Metropolitan Applied Research Center, which he had founded eight years earlier, and embarked on a consulting business on race relations and affirmative action.
        Dr. Clark's books included ''Dark Ghetto'' (1965); ''A Relevant War Against Poverty'' (1969); ''A Possible Reality,'' (1972); and ''Pathos of Power'' (1974).
        Despite the many honors he won and the respect he commanded, Dr. Clark said he thought his life had been a serious of ''magnificent failures.'' In 1992, at the age of 78, he confessed: ''I am pessimistic and I don't like that. I don't like the fact that I am more pessimistic now than I was two decades ago.''
        Yet as a conscience of New York politics and of the civil rights movement, he remained an unreconstructed, if anguished, integrationist. A decade ago, during one of his last lengthy interviews, he chain-smoked Marlboros in his home, flanked by vivid African carvings and walls of books wrapped in sun-faded dust jackets, as he professed optimism but repeatedly expressed disappointment over dashed expectations about experiments in school decentralization, open admissions at City University and affirmative action.
        ''There's no question that there have been changes,'' he said then. ''They are not as deep as they appear to be.''
        Among the cosmetic changes was an rhetorical evolution from Negro to black to African-American. What, he was asked, was the best thing for blacks to call themselves?
        ''White,'' he replied.
        He said a lack of meaningful progress could be blamed on blacks who saw themselves only as victims and on whites too narrow-minded to recognize their own self-interest in black success. As whites become a minority in a polyglot country, he was asked, won't they see that it is in their interest that blacks succeed?
        ''They're not that bright,'' he replied. ''I don't think you can expect whites to understand the effects of prejudice and discrimination against blacks affecting them. If whites really understood, they would do something about it.''
        Correction:  May 4, 2005, Wednesday  A front-page obituary on Monday about the psychologist Kenneth B. Clark, whose work showing the destructive effect of racial segregation in schools influenced the Supreme Court to hold the practice unconstitutional, referred incorrectly in some copies to the year he called on the New York State Board of Regents to supersede the authority of local school boards if they chronically reported low test scores. It was 1986, not 1988.
      