
        Mel Gussow, the longtime critic and cultural reporter for The New York Times who championed the work of many of the major playwrights of the post World War II period, including Harold Pinter, Edward Albee and Tom Stoppard, died Friday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, Ethan Gussow.
        Mr. Gussow was long associated with Off and Off Off Broadway, the traditional home of experimental writers. He was often one of the first to take the city's young emerging playwrights seriously, as he did with Sam Shepard, David Mamet and John Guare. As a critic, he tended to view his role as advisory rather than adversarial and was an early enthusiast of talents like Robert Wilson, Charles Ludlam and Richard Foreman, and later Julie Taymor.
        Mr. Gussow, who wrote more than 4,000 reviews and articles for The Times over 35 years at the newspaper, helped discover Kevin Kline's talents when Mr. Kline was still a student, as well as those of Sigourney Weaver and Meryl Streep.
        A quiet man with a shy smile, he was often mistaken for being aloof, but he had a sly sense of humor that came through in his writing. Consider his first review in The Times, of a forgettable 1969 ''surreal Southern fable'' called ''The Reckoning,'' which played -- briefly -- at a downtown theater Off Broadway. ''The words tumble so fast, enwrapped in alliteration, clogged with onomatopoeia, choked with assonance, bursting with bombast, snarled with metaphor, tangled with simile, submerged in verbiage that the bombarded audience (and reviewer at a critics' preview) missed about three out of every four,'' Mr. Gussow wrote. ''This may be a good thing.''
        Mr. Gussow (pronounced GUSS-owe) was the author of eight books, including a quartet devoted to his conversations with Arthur Miller, Samuel Beckett, Mr. Pinter and Mr. Stoppard. Chatty and occasionally confessional -- Miller admitted, for example, that he had decided against a career in law or medicine because ''all that memorization just floored me'' -- the ''Conversations With'' books became staples of college drama curriculums and the libraries of gossip-loving theater fans.
        Mr. Gussow was born in New York on Dec. 19, 1933, and grew up on Long Island. At Middlebury College, he was editor of the newspaper, and wrote and acted in variety shows. In 1955, he earned a degree in American literature and received a master's degree from the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism in 1956.
        He spent two years in the Army, first as a medic and then as an editor of an Army paper in Heidelberg, Germany. After returning to New York he was hired by Newsweek and soon began to write small theater and movie reviews.
        In 1962, Mr. Gussow caught his big break in a dramatic fashion when Newsweek's chief critic, Tom Wenning, fell sick and was unable to write a review of a little drama about an unhappy academic couple. It was ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' and it was Mr. Gussow's first Broadway byline, a rave, which concluded that the play would be ''igniting Broadway for some time to come.''
        That period was also the beginning of a four-decade friendship between Mr. Gussow and the play's author, Mr. Albee, a relationship that would culminate in ''Edward Albee: A Singular Journey,'' Mr. Gussow's 1999 biography.
        By 1964, Mr. Gussow had written cover stories on Mr. Albee, Mike Nichols, Leslie Uggams and James Earl Jones (all of whom are currently represented on Broadway). He was also writing a biography of the film mogul Darryl F. Zanuck, which was published in 1971.
        In 1970 he had some offstage drama, quite literally right at home. In March of that year, a bomb blast destroyed the brownstone next to his (a bomb factory for the radical political group the Weathermen) on West 11th Street in Greenwich Village. He then covered the event as a journalist.
        Mr. Gussow joined The Times in 1969, carving a niche for himself as a critic by traveling to avant-garde outposts like Yale University, Cafe La MaMa and the Brooklyn Academy of Music to scout new talent.
        And new talent he found. Over the years, he explored such varied talents as the playwrights Athol Fugard and Mac Wellman; the actors Michael Gambon and Bill Irwin; and solo performers like Spalding Gray and Whoopi Goldberg. Mr. Gambon was the subject of Mr. Gussow's last book, ''Michael Gambon: A Life in Acting,'' published last year.
        Mr. Albee said Mr. Gussow had alerted many readers -- even those in the theater -- to the vibrant world of beyond Broadway. ''He was right on target on all the interesting playwrights I was hearing about,'' he said. ''His care about exploring writers, especially young playwrights, was so useful.''
        Mr. Gussow is survived by his wife, Ann, and his son, both of Manhattan; and by a brother, Paul Gussow, of Brooklyn.
        In a lecture, called ''The Role of the Critic,'' Mr. Gussow told an anecdote about an actor who played the doctor who appears only very briefly in ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' Mr. Gussow said the actor described the play this way: ''It's about this doctor who takes this crazy lady off to an asylum.'' It taught him much, he said, about what it means to be a player, of any sort, in the theater.
        ''For an actor or a playwright, even a critic,'' Mr. Gussow concluded, ''one must always believe that what one does is important.''
        Correction:  May 5, 2005, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday and in some copies on Monday about Mel Gussow, a theater critic and reporter for The New York Times, referred incorrectly to the Greenwich Village house next to his that was destroyed in 1970 by explosives belonging to the radical political group the Weathermen. The building was a town house, not a brownstone.
      