
        Sunil Dutt, the rebel-hero of Indian cinema, who leveraged his Bollywood celebrity into national political influence, died on Wednesday at his home in Mumbai. He was 75.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, an aide told The Press Trust of India, the state-owned agency.
        Mr. Dutt became an advocate for social issues, from supporting cancer hospitals to promoting communal harmony. He was elected to Parliament five times, and at his death, served as the minister of sports and youth affairs.
        ''Throughout his life he really stood for secularism,'' the Congress Party leader, Sonia Gandhi, said of Mr. Dutt. India has declared a national day of mourning.
        Mr. Dutt was born in 1929 in a village in what is now Pakistan and migrated east to what became independent India during the violent partition of the subcontinent in 1947. He began his film career in the 1950's and shot to stardom in 1957 with the nationalist epic, ''Mother India,'' in which he played the protagonist, a rebellious young man who stood up to exploitive moneylenders. ''Mother India'' received an Oscar nomination for best foreign-language film.
        Mr. Dutt, a Hindu, married its lead actress, Nargis, a Muslim. Their romance was like a page out of a Bollywood script. He rescued her from a fire on the set of ''Mother India.'' Nargis Dutt died of cancer in 1981.
        Mr. Dutt joined the Congress Party in 1984 as a member of Parliament from Mumbai, better known as Bombay. He quit his seat in protest against the Hindu-Muslim riots in that city in 1992. His son, Sanjay, also an actor, was arrested in connection with the riots.
        His most famous march came in 1987, when he trekked about 1,250 miles from Mumbai north to Amritsar to promote communal harmony.
        In a film career that spanned nearly a half-century, Mr. Dutt played the role of aristocrat, fool, villain and thug.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Dutt's survivors include two daughters and several grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 19, 2005, Wednesday  Two articles on Oct. 11 about the earthquake that struck India and Pakistan on Oct. 8 misstated the ownership of the Press Trust of India, a main source of initial information on casualties and damage. (The error also occurred in unrelated articles on April 18, and May 26.) The news agency is a nonprofit cooperative owned by India's newspapers, not state-owned or state-run.
      