
        Jack Nichols, a writer and early gay activist who campaigned publicly for gay rights nearly a decade before the Stonewall riots of 1969, died on Monday in Cocoa Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 67.
        The cause was complications of cancer, from which Mr. Nichols had suffered intermittently for more than 20 years, said Steve Yates, a longtime friend.
        With Frank Kameny, Mr. Nichols founded the Mattachine Society, an early gay advocacy group, in Washington in 1961. (They adopted the name of an older gay organization, founded in 1950 by Harry Hay in Los Angeles, that had officially disbanded several months earlier.)
        Mr. Nichols, who helped organize some of the country's first civil rights demonstrations on behalf of gay men and lesbians, was a founder of Gay, the first gay weekly newspaper in the United States.
        He also successfully lobbied the American Psychiatric Association to rescind its definition of homosexuality as a form of mental illness. Until shortly before his death, Mr. Nichols edited the online publication GayToday.com.
        ''At one point, I would really say that he was just about the most visible gay person in the country, if we go back to the mid-1960's,'' said Rodger Streitmatter, a professor of journalism at American University and the author of ''Unspeakable: The Rise of the Gay and Lesbian Press in America'' (Faber & Faber, 1995). ''He was always willing to be identified as a gay person, and that was still an era when many people were not.''
        When Mr. Nichols and Mr. Kameny started the Washington Mattachine Society in 1961, identifying oneself in public as gay posed serious risks. Homosexual acts were against the law in every state, and gay men and lesbians who came out risked being jailed or institutionalized.
        ''In those days,'' Mr. Kameny said yesterday in a telephone interview, ''the entire approach to everything connected with us was negative, whether we were sinners, according to the clergy and the theologians; or criminals, according to the lawyers and the legislatures; or sick, according to the psychiatrists. We had all of these forces coming at us from every direction, which we proceeded to fight.''
        John Richard Nichols was born in Washington on March 16, 1938. He came out as gay to his parents as a teenager.
        In 1967, Mr. Nichols became one of the first Americans to talk openly about his homosexuality on national television when he appeared in ''The Homosexuals,'' a CBS documentary. (Though he allowed himself to be interviewed on camera, Mr. Nichols used a pseudonym in the broadcast at the request of his father, an F.B.I. agent.)
        Mr. Nichols, who also helped establish a chapter of the Mattachine Society in Florida, led the first gay rights march on the White House, in April 1965. The same year, he helped organize a July 4 demonstration at Independence Hall in Philadelphia.
        In 1969, after moving to New York, Mr. Nichols founded Gay with his companion, Lige Clarke. Mr. Nichols and his colleagues campaigned for years to have the American Psychiatric Association remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders; the association did so in 1973.
        Among Mr. Nichols's books are ''Men's Liberation: A New Definition of Masculinity'' (Penguin, 1975); ''The Gay Agenda: Talking Back to the Fundamentalists'' (Prometheus, 1996); and ''The Tomcat Chronicles: Erotic Adventures of a Gay Liberation Pioneer'' (Harrington Park Press, 2004).
        Mr. Nichols is survived by his mother, Mary F. Lund, of Cocoa Beach. Mr. Clarke died in 1975.
      