
        Emanuel Gluck, a retired middle-school principal who had a rich alternate life as Yankee Stadium's longest-working vendor, signified by his No. 1 badge, died on May 12 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 65.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sharyn, said.
        Mr. Gluck, 6 feet 6 inches, was the tall guy with the booming bass voice at Gate 4. He was there for every opening day for 50 years, saw every perfect game ever pitched at Yankee Stadium and was on hand for 19 World Series, 10 of which the Yankees won.
        Longevity has its privileges. Movie stars like Billy Crystal greeted him by name. His choice location, which his seniority allowed him to select, generated three times the sales of lesser gates. His wife would not say what he earned, but did volunteer that the Yankee Stadium job paid for their trips to gamble in Aruba and Las Vegas and to watch sports in stadiums around the country.
        Mr. Gluck treasured his photographs showing him with the likes of Mickey Mantle and Don Larsen, and with his collection of autographed balls, some of them a half-century old. He developed particularly strong relationships with umpires.
        His verve for vending was not noticeably dimmed by the flagging interest in using a pencil to keep score. ''Programs, programs, opening-day programs,'' he bellowed in a voice that became as familiar as fly balls and Cracker Jack in the House that Ruth Built. ''Scorecards, scorecards, scorecards!''
        Emanuel Martin Gluck was born on March 4, 1940, in the Bronx, and grew up about a block from Yankee Stadium. When he was 14, he went to work for the Harry M. Stevens Company, which handled Yankee concessions from the stadium's opening in 1923.
        He stayed after the concession passed in 1963 to the Automatic Canteen Company of America, and then through various name and ownership changes. The company now managing Yankee concessions is called Centerplay. An employee of Centerplay confirmed yesterday that Mr. Gluck had hawked one thing or another in Yankee Stadium since 1964, which is as far back as records go.
        The young Manny Gluck began by selling popcorn, peanuts and hot dogs in the upper decks, worked his way up to soda and beer, and graduated to programs and souvenirs, the prestige assignment. For 20 years, until about seven years ago, he manned the souvenir stand at Gate C at Shea Stadium as well.
        One of the best things about being the senior man at these souvenir posts was that he could often leave after two innings and watch the game.
        Mr. Gluck also worked when New York professional football teams played at Yankee Stadium, the Polo Grounds and Shea.
        He graduated from the City College of New York with a degree in education, and at the age of 21 started teaching graphic arts at a middle school in the Bronx. He rapidly moved up to become principal, and at 51 took a buyout package from Whalen Junior High School in the Bronx.
        He then worked as a middle school principal in New Britain and Willington, Conn. He and his wife also helped out at a travel agency owned by a friend, facilitating their passion for traveling.
        In addition to his wife, the former Sharyn Primavera, Mr. Gluck is survived by two sons, David, of Fair Lawn, N.J., and Jeff, of Ridgewood, N.J.; a daughter, Fran Kanter, of Flushing, Queens; two stepsons, Michael Primavera of Milford, Conn., and Rob, of Shelton, Conn.; and seven grandchildren.
        For a few months, Mr. Gluck's fame transcended even his prominent perch at the stadium, his wife said. An Atlantic City casino used a picture of the Glucks on a billboard to show a nice couple having fun at the gaming tables.
      