
        Marc Lappé, a toxicologist, author and educator who campaigned against chemical perils by writing 14 books, testifying in many lawsuits against corporations and leading local environmental fights, died last Saturday at his home in Gualala, Calif., a coastal town north of San Francisco He was 62.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his son Anthony said.
        Dr. Lappé defended his forceful views on chemicals by citing what ethicists call the ''precautionary principle,'' meaning that if the risk is high and outcomes are unknown, it is best to avoid introducing the risk altogether. Yet he also maintained that even a slight risk is a risk, and that long-term exposure to very low doses might eventually prove dangerous.
        But if his views on these and other topics were firm, the threats he cited were often not universally accepted. He argued, for instance, against genetically modified food, but its danger remains a matter of debate, and his opponents say the possible risks he cited should be weighed against predicted agricultural benefits. He also campaigned against silicone gel breast implants, but last month a panel of advisers to the Food and Drug Administration, rejecting arguments centering on serious health risks, recommended that after years of tight restrictions, those made by one manufacturer be made widely available.
        As a California health official in 1980, Dr. Lappé helped prepare studies warning that it was dangerous to spray the neurotoxin Malathion to eradicate an infestation of Mediterranean fruit flies. He resigned when his conclusions were weakened in the final report.
        And in the protracted litigation over the silicone implants, he discovered that the Dow Corning Corporation, a leading maker of silicone products, was withholding data that plaintiffs' lawyers subsequently used to win $3.2 billion in a class action against the company. Further, in each of 30 individual cases on which he consulted, the women claiming damage either settled or won jury awards.
        He was also a consultant or expert witness in cases involving the industrial wastes around Love Canal in upstate New York, Agent Orange in Southeast Asia, farm workers' exposure to pesticides and the pollution case in Woburn, Mass., that was dramatized in the book and movie ''A Civil Action.'' As a board member of the March of Dimes, he warned of environmental factors that could cause birth defects.
        His books were often the first to sound alarms about environmental issues that would soon draw wide notice, particularly his 1982 book warning against the indiscriminate use of antibiotics, ''Germs That Won't Die.'' Overtreatment with antibiotics, the author pointed out, could leave the body to fight supergerms that have become resistant to drugs.
        They were also among the first popular books to raise serious questions about the proliferation of chemicals in the many areas of modern life (''Chemical Deception: The Toxic Threat to Health and the Environment''), and about genetically altered crops (''Against the Grain: Biotechnology and the Corporate Takeover of Your Food,'' written with Britt Bailey).
        Dr. Lappé was among the early fellows at the Hastings Center, created in 1969 in Garrison, N.Y., to study bioethics. He also founded the Center for Ethics and Toxics, in Gualala, to help local communities fight toxic contamination. In 2004, the center helped win passage of a measure that prohibited the raising of genetically altered crops and animals in Mendocino County, where Gualala is located, the first such ban in the nation.
        Marc Alan Lappé was born in Irvington, N.J., on Jan. 14, 1943. As an undergraduate at Wesleyan University, he did cancer research at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel. He earned a doctorate in experimental pathology from the University of Pennsylvania.
        From 1976 to 1980, during the governorship of Jerry Brown, he worked in various roles for the California Department of Health Services. He said he quit his last job, as head of the agency's hazard evaluation unit, because of the weakening of the Malathion study, though his supervisor attributed the resignation to ''administrative problems.''
        Dr. Lappé held a number of academic positions, at the University of California, Berkeley; Sarah Lawrence College; the University of Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago; and the College of Marin, in California.
        For a time in the 1990's, he was producing about a book a year. In 1998, his book about biotechnology was at first accepted by Vital Health Publishing, but then rejected after Monsanto, a leading producer of genetically modified seeds, threatened to sue. It was printed by Common Courage Press, a left-leaning publisher and seller of political and academic writing.
        Dr. Lappé's marriage to the former Frances Moore, who wrote ''Diet for a Small Planet,'' ended in divorce. He was married to Nichol Lovera from 1977 until her death in 1996.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Jacqueline Durbin; his father, Paul, of Morristown, N.J.; his brother, Donald, of Salt Lake City; his daughters, Anna, of Brooklyn, and Martine and Gina, both of Gualala; his sons, Anthony, of Manhattan, and Matthew, of Palo Alto, Calif.; his stepdaughter, Danielle Spoor of Gualala; and his stepson, Sasha Spoor of San Francisco.
      