
        Harold R. Tyler Jr., a prominent lawyer and a former deputy attorney general and federal judge, who was frequently enlisted to provide judicial balance on legal panels considering contentious issues, died on Wednesday outside his apartment in Manhattan. He was 83.
        The death was announced yesterday by his law firm, Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler. His family said that he was returning home when he collapsed in his building, apparently after a heart attack.
        Mr. Tyler formerly headed the judicial qualifications committee of the American Bar Association, which vetted candidates for the Supreme Court, most famously Judge Robert H. Bork, whose nomination failed in 1987. Mr. Tyler defended the committee's divided report on the nomination, saying the deliberations had been nonpartisan and unbiased.
        He also was a former co-chairman of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.
        Mr. Tyler was a 38-year-old law partner in New York with brief experience as an assistant United States attorney when President Dwight D. Eisenhower picked him in 1960 to head the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division as an assistant attorney general. He was in charge of it for the remainder of the Eisenhower administration. President John F. Kennedy nominated him as a judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in May 1962, the seventh Republican Kennedy had named to the federal bench by then.
        Over the next 13 years, Judge Tyler presided over hundreds of cases, big and small. He was the judge who sentenced Carmine G. DeSapio, the former Tammany Hall leader and onetime Democratic kingmaker, to prison after his bribery conspiracy conviction in 1969.
        Judge Tyler was the principal organizer in 1973 of a federal sentencing institute, a periodic retreat for district judges from New York and New England.
        After leaving the bench in 1975, he was deputy attorney general in the Ford administration. One of his aides was a young man named Rudolph W. Giuliani.
        The Republicans' loss in the 1976 presidential election meant a return to private practice for both of them. Mr. Tyler became a partner in Patterson, Belknap & Webb in 1977; the firm changed its name to add his. Mr. Giuliani joined the firm as well, and Mr. Tyler became a sponsor of his career as a federal prosecutor and mayor.
        In 1983, Mr. Tyler was the chief author of a report commissioned by the State Department at the behest of Congress on the 1980 killings of four American churchwomen in El Salvador. The confidential report rebutted criticism that the Reagan administration had failed to press for swift prosecution of their killers.
        Harold Russell Tyler Jr. was born in Utica, N.Y. He graduated from Philip Exeter Academy -- where he earned the nickname Ace on the playing fields -- in 1939, and from Princeton in 1943. After graduation, he enlisted in the Army and rose to captain. He received a law degree from Columbia in 1949.
        He was a trustee of the New York University School of Law, where he taught as an adjunct professor from 1965 to 1974. He became of counsel to Patterson, Belknap in 1991.
        Mr. Tyler is survived by his second wife, Sara Cree Norris; two sons, Bradley E. of Rochester, N.Y., and John R. of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Sheila T. Gregg of Portsmouth, N.H.; a sister, Murney Kelleher, also of Alexandria; and six grandchildren. His marriage to Barbara Eaton Tyler, a resident of Southbury, Conn., ended in divorce.
      