
        Jimmy Martin, whose high tenor voice, driving guitar and plucky personality made him an exemplar of bluegrass music for more than 50 years, died on Saturday in Nashville. He was 77 and lived in Hermitage, Tenn.
        The cause was bladder cancer and congestive heart failure, said his son Ray.
        An irascible character and a virtuoso guitarist, Mr. Martin lent a rhythmic intensity to Bill Monroe's Blue Grass Boys in a series of classic recordings in the early 1950's. Later, he played with Osborne Brothers and then formed a band of his own, building on the style he learned from Monroe, considered the father of bluegrass.
        He joined Monroe's band in 1949 as an unknown but quickly made an impression. His guitar playing was aggressive and fast, and his singing voice was higher than his predecessors in the Blue Grass Boys, including Mac Wiseman and Lester Flatt.
        Staying with Monroe's band off and on until 1954, he played on 46 songs with the group, including ''Uncle Pen,'' ''I'm On My Way to the Old Home'' and ''Walking in Jerusalem.'' Mr. Martin also recorded with Bob and Sonny Osborne, and in 1956 began his career as a leader, calling his group the Sunny Mountain Boys, a name that had been associated with the Osbornes. His songs from the late 50's, recorded for Decca, include ''Hit Parade of Love,'' ''Ocean of Diamonds'' and ''Rock Hearts.''
        In addition to his skills as a musician, he also distinguished himself as an eccentric among bluegrass stoics. He danced onstage, dressed in snazzy suits -- with elaborately decorative fabrics not just on his jacket but on his hat, too -- and spoke to the audience with a devilish wit.
        He was a regular on ''Louisiana Hayride,'' the influential live radio show on KWKH in Shreveport, La. He continued to record for Decca until 1974, and appeared on the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band's hit album ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'' in 1972.
        He performed into his 70's, though he took off much of each year for hunting -- squirrel, rabbit and raccoon. His ornery stage presence and passion for hunting were captured as equal sides of his personality in a 2003 documentary, ''King of Bluegrass.''
        He is survived by three sons, Ray, of Mount Juliet, Tenn.; James Jr., of Tampa, Fla.; and Lee, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Lisa Arnold, of Hendersonville, Tenn.; and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Martin was born on Aug. 10, 1927, in Sneedville, Tenn. He joined the Blue Grass Boys in an impromptu audition on Oct. 15, 1949, when he was 22. After being fired from a factory in nearby Morristown for singing on the job, he took a bus to Nashville, where he approached Monroe outside the backstage door at the Ryman Auditorium, then home to the Grand Ole Opry. He sang and played some guitar for Monroe, who offered him a job on the spot.
        ''Then I went back to Morristown and thanked the man for firing me,'' Mr. Martin said in ''King of Bluegrass,'' ''and told him he could listen in on Saturday night and hear me on the Grand Ole Opry with Bill Monroe.''
      