
        Leonid Shamkovich, a Russian-born chess grandmaster who became one of the Soviet Union's first elite players allowed to emigrate, died on April 22 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of cancer and Parkinson's disease, said his son, Andrei.
        In 1972, Mr. Shamkovich immigrated to Israel, becoming the third grandmaster allowed to emigrate from the Soviet Union. Vladimir Liberzon and Anatoly Lein, the two who preceded him, also went to Israel. Not many grandmasters were allowed to emigrate, and after Viktor Korchnoi defected in 1976, the door was almost completely shut until the fall of the Soviet Union 15 years later.
        Mr. Shamkovich did not stay in Israel for long. He moved to Canada in 1973 and to the United States at the end of that year, settling in New York City.
        Leonid Aleksandrovich Shamkovich was born in Taganrog, in southern Russia, on June 1, 1923. He attended Leningrad State University for five years, studying engineering. He quit one semester short of graduation, according to his son, to devote himself full-time to chess.
        Nicknamed Prince because of his aristocratic bearing and manner of speech, Mr. Shamkovich was not among the leading Soviet players who dominated the game for most of the second half of the 20th century. His son said that he played with great emotion, which made his results very uneven. Still, he was good enough to win the Russian championship in 1954 and 1956 and to tie for fifth place in the 1964-65 Soviet championship. He became a grandmaster in 1965. In 1976 and 77 he tied for first place in the United States Open.
        Mr. Shamkovich's expertise was as an analyst and tactician. He was sought after as a coach, and worked for two world champions, Mikhail Tal and Garry Kasparov. He also wrote more than a dozen books, including ones on the Gruenfeld Defense and the Schliemann Defense, the latter a particularly tactical opening.
        Mr. Shamkovich was married and divorced three times. In addition to his son, he is survived by two half-sisters, Sofia and Tatiana, of Brooklyn; a granddaughter, and a great-granddaughter.
        Correction:  May 11, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Leonid Shamkovich, a former Soviet chess grandmaster, misstated his birthplace and referred incorrectly to one survivor. Mr. Shamkovich was born in Rostov-on-Don, Russia, not Taganrog; the survivor was a great-grandson, not a great-granddaughter.
      