
        Dr. Keiiti Aki, a seismologist whose penetrating studies of the behavior and origins of earthquakes contributed to a deeper understanding of natural disasters, died May 17 on Réunion island in the Indian Ocean. He was 75.
        The cause was a brain hemorrhage suffered after a fall, said a close friend, John K. McRaney of the Southern California Earthquake Center, where Dr. Aki had been a director.
        In a career that spanned the earth sciences, Dr. Aki, a resident of Réunion, east of Madagascar, was interested in applying methods of quantitative analysis to shape theories in seismology.
        He was widely known for his concept of the ''seismic moment,'' which he developed in the 1960's as a means of measuring the magnitude of earthquakes.
        While studying a huge earthquake that struck Niigata, Japan, in 1964, Dr. Aki devised a calculation that considers the area affected by an earthquake, the rigidity of the underlying rock and the distance the rocks slip.
        The result -- the seismic moment -- is a measure of the energy released by an earthquake, and is used in addition to the moment magnitude scale, now the standard measurement announced to the public after disasters like the earthquake-generated tsunamis in December.
        Dr. Aki explained the concept in a paper he published in 1966.
        Dr. Paul G. Richards, a professor of natural sciences at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, said Dr. Aki had ''brought quantitative methods to bear on anything to do with the way the ground moves.''
        Dr. Richards added, ''His work touched just about every side of seismology, in terms of understanding the physics of earthquakes.''
        In the 1970's, Dr. Aki and other scientists began to make use of a network of fixed and portable measuring devices, called seismometers, on various continents to studying the deep structure of the earth through the waves issued by distant earthquakes. The field was later refined and became known as seismic tomography.
        In 1980, Dr. Aki and Dr. Richards published a two-volume textbook, ''Quantitative Seismology: Theory and Methods.'' The book ''codified a lot of theoretical developments and became the most often cited reference in seismology,'' said Dr. Thomas H. Jordan, director of the Southern California Earthquake Center, which is affiliated with the University of Southern California. Dr. Aki joined the faculty there in 1984 and retired in 2004.
        He was also the earthquake center's first director and in the 1990's brought his expertise to bear on forecasting earthquakes in California. He examined Southern California's fault lines and prepared what Dr. Jordan called a ''master model,'' using the state as a laboratory to study a larger physical system.
        Keiiti Aki was born in Yokohama, Japan. He earned undergraduate and doctoral degrees from the University of Tokyo before beginning his postdoctoral research at the California Institute of Technology in 1958.
        After teaching at the Earthquake Research Institute in Tokyo, he was a professor of geophysics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and from 1966 to 1984. He became an American citizen in 1976.
        At his death, Dr. Aki was studying the seismology of volcanoes on Réunion.
        Dr. Aki was elected president of the Seismological Society of America in 1980. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        In March, he received the Gutenberg Medal of the European Geosciences Union. Last year, the American Geophysical Union gave him the Bowie Medal, its highest honor.
        Dr. Aki is survived by his wife, Valérie Ferrazzini, a geophysicist, and their two daughters, Kajika and Uka, all of Réunion; and by two sons from a previous marriage, Shota, of Weare, N.H., and Zenta, of Redondo Beach, Calif.
      