
        Bob Schiffer, a celebrated Hollywood makeup artist who spent nearly 70 years turning men into monsters and beautiful women into breathtakingly beautiful women, died on April 26 in Los Angeles. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Douglas.
        A specialist in women's makeup, Mr. Schiffer was often credited with developing the ''1940's look,'' with its lush red lips and thin, arching eyebrows. He made up some of the most famous faces in Hollywood, among them Rita Hayworth, Joan Crawford, Ingrid Bergman, Cary Grant and Errol Flynn, as well as Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. His several hundred films include ''A Night at the Opera'' (1935), ''The Wizard of Oz'' (1939), ''The Magnificent Ambersons'' (1942), ''Gilda'' (1946), ''The Lady From Shanghai'' (1948), ''An American in Paris'' (1951), ''Gigi'' (1958), ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' (1961), ''What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?'' (1962), ''My Fair Lady'' (1964) and ''Something Wicked This Way Comes'' (1983).
        Until his retirement in 2001, Mr. Schiffer was head of the makeup department at Disney, where he had worked since 1968.
        Mr. Schiffer could make men grow beards and men go bald. He turned Daryl Hannah into a mermaid and Dean Jones into a dog. He bloodied soldiers in battle and threw Christians to lions. He made actors grow old overnight, deploying an arsenal of pouches, shadows and liver spots. He made grown men cry.
        In addition to his Hollywood work, Mr. Schiffer helped create disguises for espionage and law-enforcement agencies.
        Robert John Schiffer was born in Seattle on Sept. 4, 1916. As a teenager, he worked as a seaman on an ocean liner, earning extra money by making up passengers for costume balls. He began working in Hollywood in the mid-1930's.
        Much of Mr. Schiffer's early work is uncredited, but his first film is believed to have been ''The Last Days of Pompeii,'' in 1935. His job was to apply body makeup to hundreds of very expendable extras, who were promptly thrown to the lions.
        Mr. Schiffer was best known for the 1962 film ''Birdman of Alcatraz,'' in which Burt Lancaster ages from 18 to 80. In a painstaking transformation that took two and a half hours each morning, Mr. Schiffer endowed Lancaster with rubber jowls, a beard and a toupee of thinning hair. (He persuaded the actor to shave his head first.) He wrinkled Lancaster's skin by hand, stretching it with tape and letting it crawl back into place.
        Among Mr. Schiffer's other films are ''The Shaggy D.A.,'' with Mr. Jones as a dog (1976); ''Splash,'' starring Ms. Hannah as a mermaid (1984); and a great many in which he made actors weep by blowing menthol vapor into their eyes.
        Like a number of his colleagues, Mr. Schiffer also lent his services to law enforcement and the military. He helped with camouflage work in World War II, and in 1961, during the Bay of Pigs invasion, he made up United States operatives to look more Cuban. In recent years, he created mock wounds for hundreds of marines and sailors as part of battlefield training exercises.
        In addition to his son, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., Mr. Schiffer's survivors include his wife of 53 years, the former Florence Ruth Meyerson; and two grandchildren.
        In 2001, he received a lifetime achievement award from the Hollywood Makeup Artist and Hair Stylist Guild.
      