
        William K. Rashbaum, a prominent New York obstetrician and gynecologist who was a longtime advocate of abortion rights, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Cornwall, Conn.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, said his son, William K. Jr.
        The chief of family planning services at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan for many years, Dr. Rashbaum at his death was an attending obstetrician at Beth Israel and an associate clinical professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
        Dr. Rashbaum was one of the few physicians in the country who routinely performed late-term abortions, and for more than three decades this work put him at the center of one of the nation's most highly charged political battlegrounds.
        In a profile of Dr. Rashbaum in 2003, Mother Jones magazine called him ''one of the pre-eminent and longest-practicing providers of second-trimester abortions in the United States.'' Dr. Rashbaum also taught the procedure to hundreds of physicians around the country.
        William Kohlmann Rashbaum was born in New York City on Sept. 1, 1926. After earning a bachelor's degree in 1948 and a medical degree in 1951, both from New York University, he joined the Manhattan practice of his father, also an obstetrician-gynecologist. The younger Dr. Rashbaum began offering abortions shortly after the procedure was legalized in New York State, in 1970.
        Dr. Rashbaum's first marriage, to the former Lynn Phillips, ended in divorce. In addition to his son, a reporter for The New York Times, Dr. Rashbaum is survived by his second wife, Mary Sams; a daughter, Sara Phillips of Manhattan; two stepsons, Jonathan Edelman of Manhattan and David Edelman of McLean, Va.; and three grandchildren.
        A former board member of Planned Parenthood of New York City, Dr. Rashbaum was a founder of Physicians for Reproductive Choice and Health. In 1999, he was honored for his work by the reproductive rights project of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
        Correction:  May 7, 2005, Saturday  An obituary on Tuesday about Dr. William K. Rashbaum, a New York obstetrician and gynecologist who was an advocate of abortion rights, omitted a longtime professional affiliation. Besides Beth Israel Medical Center, he practiced at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx for 47 years.
      