
        Norman D. Kurtz, the chairman and founding partner of the engineering firm Flack & Kurtz, which supplied many skyscrapers with electrical and mechanical equipment, died on Friday at home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69.
        The death, apparently caused by a heart attack, was announced by his family and the firm, which he helped establish in 1969.
        Flack & Kurtz furnishes engineering services like plumbing, air-conditioning, telecommunications and fire protection. It has outfitted the World Financial Center and the new Bloomberg L.P. headquarters in New York as well as the Cheung Kong Center in Hong Kong and the Petronas Twin Towers in Malaysia.
        After the 1970's fuel crisis, Mr. Kurtz, a mechanical engineer, worked with architects, developers, builders and other engineering partners to advance the concept of ''green'' architecture and energy efficiency in projects like the World Financial Center.
        In 2000, Flack & Kurtz became part of the London-based WSP Group, with Mr. Kurtz remaining as chairman of an autonomous unit. His co-founder, Peter Flack, retired in 1996.
        Norman David Kurtz was born in Brooklyn and graduated as a Phi Beta Kappa member in mechanical engineering from Princeton in 1958. He received an M.S. in mechanical engineering from Stanford University the next year and went to work with a New York engineering firm, then called Fred S. Dugan Associates, where he became a partner.
        He later returned to Princeton as an adjunct professor of engineering in the School of Architecture. Over the years, he also lectured at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Harvard Graduate School of Design and Columbia and Cornell Universities.
        Mr. Kurtz is survived by his wife of 40 years, Honey Miller Kurtz; two daughters, Lori Kurtz of Houston and Stephanie M. Pierce of Boulder, Colo.; a brother, Barry, of Austin; and a sister, Judy Polcer of Brooklyn.
        Correction:  June 13, 2005, Monday  An obituary on May 18 about Norman D. Kurtz, chairman of the engineering firm of Flack & Kurtz, misstated the scope of the business. The firm is responsible for the design and specification of mechanical and electrical building systems for all types of buildings, not merely a supplier of electrical and mechanical equipment to skyscrapers.
      