
        Stephen Sloan, a Manhattan real-estate developer, marine conservationist and champion angler, died on April 28 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Sloan was a former partner in Lehman Brothers, and since then head of Stephen Sloan Realty.
        Mr. Sloan's love of fishing led not only to some notable sports fishing records but also to several innovative efforts to inspire a love of fishing in others and to publicize the perilous state of world fisheries.
        He set world sports fishing records at the International Game Fish Association, starting in 1966 with a bluefin tuna he hooked off Montauk.
        After that he set more than 40 additional records, 10 of them standing, including catching a 862-pound black marlin near Lizard Island, Australia, in 1978.
        He wrote ''Ocean Bankruptcy: World Fisheries on the Brink of Disaster'' (Globe Pequot Press, 2003) and ''Fly Fishing Is Spoken Here: The Most Prominent Anglers in the World Talk Tactics, Strategies and Attitudes'' (Globe Pequot, 2003). The fly fishing book drew on interviews he conducted for his syndicated radio program, ''The Fishing Zone.''
        His most recent book was ''Thanatopfish'' (Meadow Run Press, 2004), with original art by James Prosek. In it, he revisited the great oceans, reflecting on his own mortality and on the sea's encounter with the ills inflicted on it by man.
        Stephen Samuel Sloan, a Manhattan native, was captain of the baseball team at Washington & Lee University, from which he received a bachelor's degree in English in 1954, and played minor-league baseball.
        In 1957, he married Nannette Barkin and joined her father's real-estate development and construction company. Lehman Brothers recruited him in 1970 as the founding president of the Lehman Brothers Realty Corporation, a post he held until he founded his own firm, Stephen Sloan Realty, in 1979.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Sloan started the Citizens Committee for Urban Fishing, a foundation that stocked city ponds and lakes with catfish so city youngsters could enjoy fishing as he did in Central Park as a child.
        In the 1990's, the enterprise grew into Take-a-kid-Fishing Inc., which teaches children about fishing and conservation in partnership with schools and community groups.
        At his death, Mr. Sloan was chairman of Take-a-kid-Fishing (www.take-a-kid-fishing.net) and a trustee of the International Game Fish Association. He was also a former adjunct professor of marine sciences at the University of Miami.
        In addition to his wife, Nannette, Mr. Sloan is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Sloan Doyle of Manhattan, who is expected to replace him on the board of Take-a-kid-Fishing; a son, Robert, also of Manhattan; and two grandsons.
      