
        Batya Gur, a writer and critic almost single-handedly responsible for making the detective novel a flourishing genre in Israeli letters, died on May 19 in Jerusalem. She was 57 and lived in Jerusalem.
        The cause was cancer, her family told Agence France-Presse.
        Best sellers in Israel, Ms. Gur's novels were translated into many languages and drew critical praise worldwide. Five were published in English, beginning with ''The Saturday Morning Murder'' (HarperCollins, 1992), the first crime novel by an Israeli to reach a wide American readership. Her most recent novel, ''Bethlehem Road Murder,'' was published by HarperCollins last year.
        While Ms. Gur's novels were ostensibly police procedurals, they were no ordinary whodunits. Her mysteries were less about the death of the body than they were sustained, thoughtful explorations of the life of the mind.
        Her detective, Chief Superintendent Michael Ohayon of the Jerusalem police, was not only tall, dark-eyed and compassionate; he was also cerebral, introspective and melancholic. Trained in history and literature at Cambridge, he was the author of an unfinished doctoral dissertation on medieval guilds.
        Ms. Gur's settings were always closed societies -- a psychoanalytic institute, a kibbutz, the world of classical musicians -- whose tensions, factionalism and prejudices, critics observed, mirrored Israel's own. To crack each case, the Moroccan-born Ohayon, himself an outsider in Israel, had to immerse himself in these tightknit worlds with the patient dedication of a scholar. His solutions grew out of his gradual understanding of the deep philosophical issues at the heart of each community.
        Reviewing ''The Saturday Morning Murder'' in The New York Times Book Review, Marilyn Stasio called the book, set among a group of back-biting psychoanalysts, ''subtly provocative.'' The characters, she added, ''are examined in such depth and detail that the motive eventually uncovered for the murder makes perfect, if perfectly horrid, sense.''
        Batya Gur was born in Tel Aviv in 1947 to parents who had survived the Holocaust. She earned a master's degree in Hebrew literature from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and taught literature in high school before writing her first Ohayon novel at 39. Ms. Gur was also a literary critic for Haaretz and an outspoken opponent of the government of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
        Ms. Gur is survived by her husband, Ariel Hirschfeld, a scholar and critic; her mother; a brother; and three children from a previous marriage, Haaretz reported.
        Her other Michael Ohayon books, all published in the United States by HarperCollins, include ''Literary Murder'' (1993), ''Murder on a Kibbutz'' (1994) and ''Murder Duet'' (1999).
      