
        Lloyd N. Cutler, the Washington legal mandarin who shuttled between a lucrative private practice and the White House, where he was counselor to Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 87.
        His death was reported by his wife, Polly Kraft.
        At the firm he helped found in 1962, Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, Mr. Cutler helped direct 500 lawyers representing or lobbying for the world's most powerful corporations and industrial groups. The firm's clients included the Automobile Manufacturers Association and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, and companies that included I.B.M., ABC, CBS, NBC, Cigna, many airlines, major newspapers, banks and professional sports teams.
        But Mr. Cutler also crossed into the public sphere. He became Mr. Carter's counsel in 1979, working on issues arising from the Iranian hostage crisis, the SALT II treaty negotiations and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
        In 1988, President Ronald Reagan turned to Mr. Cutler, a lifelong Democrat, naming him chairman of a commission on salaries that ultimately recommended pay increases of more than 50 percent for senior government officials, including the president, cabinet members, members of Congress and federal judges, a move that widened his circle of influential admirers in the capital.
        In 1994, Mr. Cutler was again called upon by the White House as Mr. Clinton contended with the legal and political turmoil set off by the Whitewater investigation.
        The White House counsel, Bernard Nussbaum, had resigned over his role in meetings between the White House and the Treasury Department during the investigation. In considering a replacement, Mr. Clinton said he wanted ''a Lloyd Cutler type.''
        It turned out that Mr. Cutler himself was willing to step in. He found a provision that allowed him to take the post as an unpaid ''special government employee'' for 130 days while retaining his position as his firm's senior counsel.
        In a statement yesterday, President Bush described Mr. Cutler as ''a devoted public servant who had a profound influence on the legal profession.'' Under Mr. Bush, Mr. Cutler was of counsel to the presidential commission studying intelligence on illicit weapons.
        His stints as presidential counsel gave Mr. Cutler an unusual perspective on how the challenges of being the president's lawyer had mounted as the atmosphere in the White House had radically changed. In a 1997 interview, he recalled how Mr. Carter had called him while he was vacationing on a barge in France.
        ''In those days it was a much better job than it is today because it was a policy-making job,'' Mr. Cutler said in the interview, conducted by Bar Report, a publication of the District of Columbia Bar. ''I didn't have to spend all my time defending the president and his team from personal attacks.''
        Despite the tensions and frustrations of dealing with the Iranian hostage crisis, Mr. Cutler said, ''I thought it was the best job a lawyer could possibly have.'' That was clearly not his view after he returned to the White House in 1994. By then, he said, the job had become far more frustrating and tense.
        ''As a lawyer, you're generally accustomed to learning everything you can about a particular matter before you start making decisions,'' he said in the interview. ''But you don't have time to do that in the White House.''
        He continued: ''If you don't have your position ready by 4 o'clock, the correspondents will be standing on the White House lawn for the evening news broadcasts saying: 'The White House is in disarray. They don't know what to do. They're not speaking.' So it's rough, a very difficult environment to work in.''
        On his return to the White House, Mr. Cutler waded energetically into the storm. He mounted an internal investigation and, in an appearance before the House Banking Committee, said that the White House staff had violated no legal or ethical rules.
        In the process, Mr. Cutler spoke of himself as an independent authority who rose above any suggestion of partisanship. ''I am not here as a special pleader for the president of the United States,'' he said. ''I am here to report to you about a factual investigation that I concluded. I didn't ask for this job. I came in, and I took it, and I reported, frankly, to the best of my ability as a lawyer and a person of integrity.''
        Some Republicans on the committee scoffed at Mr. Cutler's assertion of impartiality, but they were unable to wound his integrity. Mr. Clinton had called Mr. Cutler ''a man of seasoned judgment and the highest ethical standards,'' and similar views were offered by many of Washington's old hands.
        C. Boyden Gray, White House counsel for President George H.W. Bush, said ''no one was better suited'' for the job than Mr. Cutler, adding that he had ''helped write the modern training manual for this post.'' He had been Mr. Gray's mentor at Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering.
        Lloyd Norton Cutler was born on Nov. 10, 1917, in New York City. The original family name, Koslow, was Americanized when his paternal grandfather arrived at Ellis Island from Europe.
        Mr. Cutler's father was a trial lawyer in New York and a partner of Fiorello H. La Guardia. Mr. Cutler remembered how as a 10-year-old, he would see Mr. La Guardia, the congressman and future mayor of New York, when he visited his father's office, and would listen to his tales of politicians and politics.
        Around that time, Mr. Cutler decided to give up his dream of becoming a street-car conductor in favor of the law. He completed his undergraduate and law studies at Yale, intent on becoming a Wall Street lawyer. He joined Cravath, Swaine & Moore, the corporate law firm founded in 1819.
        Mr. Cutler said he had sought to pattern his own law office after the Cravath firm. But hours after he learned that the Japanese had attacked Pearl Harbor, he began calling friends who had gone to Washington, looking for government work.
        He joined the prosecution before a military commission of eight Nazis who had arrived in the United States by submarine on a sabotage mission. He then enlisted in the Army and was assigned to military intelligence as a code breaker and analyst.
        When the war ended, he joined three others to open a law office in Washington, which, after a merger 17 years later, became Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering.
        The firm's big early cases included representing the pharmaceutical industry in government hearings on the length of patent protection and the steel industry when President Harry S. Truman seized the steel mills.
        Over the years, Mr. Cutler became a target of criticism over the influence he wielded in the capital. Among his more prominent critics was Ralph Nader, who once picketed Mr. Cutler's law firm.
        ''People shouldn't forget,'' Mr. Nader said, ''that over the years he has represented the crassest positions of the auto companies, the drug companies and others in their anticonsumer and anti-environmental activities.''
        The criticism had little effect on Mr. Cutler's stature. He was a longstanding member of a powerful Washington community that included Clark Clifford, Cyrus R. Vance, Paul C. Warnke, Katharine Graham, Pamela Harriman and Edward Bennett Williams.
        Mr. Cutler's first wife, the former Louise M. Howe, whom he married in 1941, died in 1989. The next year, he married Rhoda Kraft, known as Polly, who was a painter and the widow of the syndicated columnist Joseph Kraft.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Norton, of Denver; three daughters, Beverly Cutler of Palmer, Alaska; Deborah Notman of Chestnut Hill, Mass.; and Louisiana Cutler of Anchorage; two stepsons, David W. Stevens of Denver and Mark W. Stevens of New York City; and eight grandchildren.
        Many of his closest friends shared Mr. Cutler's Democratic sympathies, but his powerful friends and associates extended across party and ideological lines. He liked and respected Judge Robert H. Bork and attracted Democratic charges of apostasy when he wrote to defend Mr. Reagan's nomination of Mr. Bork, a conservative, to the Supreme Court. He was also close to two former Republican secretaries of state who were clients of his firm, Henry A. Kissinger and George P. Shultz.
        Although he had critics, like Mr. Nader, his legal record was significant. Among his victories was a 1982 Supreme Court case, N.A.A.C.P. v. Claiborne Hardware, which established broad First Amendment protection for politically motivated boycotts. In 1985 he won an $8.1 million award for Greenpeace, which had sought damages from the French government for blowing up the Greenpeace ship Rainbow Warrior in New Zealand waters as the vessel prepared to lead a protest against French nuclear testing in the Pacific.
        As a power broker, however, his profile was even more visible. An appreciation appeared in American Lawyer Media in 1994. The author, Stuart Taylor Jr., had been a young associate at the Cutler firm before turning to writing, as a reporter for The New York Times and other publications, and now as a columnist for National Journal.
        Mr. Taylor described his former boss, with the ''deep, throaty voice, carefully chosen words, measured pace, gravitas, wisdom, courtliness, white hair, the whole bit.''
        ''Lloyd,'' he wrote, ''was born an éminence grise, in that last generation of people who got to be grown-ups.''
        Correction:  May 13, 2005, Friday  An obituary on Monday about Lloyd N. Cutler, the Washington lawyer and presidential adviser, omitted a survivor. She is his sister, Laurel Cutler of New York.
      