
        Peter Karasz, the managing partner of Cleary Gottlieb, one of New York's leading international law firms, died on April 30 in Washington, where he had gone for a business meeting. He was 63 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was a cancer diagnosed four years ago, the firm announced.
        Mr. Karasz, a native of Budapest, joined Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton in New York in 1967 and became a partner in 1975. He was elected managing partner in 2000 and was in his second three-year term when he announced his decision last month to step down at the end of the year.
        On May 5, the firm's partners announced his successor, Mark Walker, 63, a senior New York-based banking and finance specialist and a partner since 1975.
        Mr. Karasz guided the firm successfully through the aftermath of Sept. 11, which scattered 1,000 Cleary Gottlieb employees across the city for months until their return to the firm's downtown headquarters at One Liberty Plaza. He also oversaw the expansion of the firm's already formidable international presence.
        In less than six years, Cleary Gottlieb grew from about 600 to 850 lawyers from more than 50 countries, and it opened offices in Cologne and Milan. Its 170 partners now practice in 12 offices in nine countries.
        Peter Karasz was born on June 18, 1941. His father, Arthur Karasz, also a lawyer, was governor of the Hungarian National Bank in the brief interlude between the end of World War II and the advent of Soviet-style communism. The family fled into exile, and Arthur Karasz eventually became the head of the European office of the World Bank; he died in 1992.
        Peter grew up in France, Bolivia, Thailand and the United States, speaking English, French and Spanish. He graduated with a degree in political science from Johns Hopkins University in 1962 and received a J.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1965.
        He joined Cleary Gottlieb and was based in the Paris office from 1968 to 1973.
        Mr. Karasz is survived by his wife of 19 years, Marilyn Sobel, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, and their twin children, Matthew and Alexandra, 14. Also surviving are a son and daughter from an earlier marriage, Andrew and Valerie Karasz, both of Manhattan; and two sisters, Zsuzsanna K. Lipsky of Brooklyn Heights, and Eva Fruzsina March of Clinton, Conn. His first marriage, to Susan Holaday Schumacher, a resident of Washington, ended in divorce.
      