
        Richard Lewine, a Broadway composer and television producer, and a custodian of the legacy of Richard Rodgers, a second cousin, died on May 19 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94.
        The death was announced by his family.
        Mr. Lewine's Broadway credentials reached back to 1934, when he wrote the book for a short-lived musical revue, ''Fools Rush In.'' In 1957, he produced the only musical that Rodgers and Hammerstein created expressly for television, ''Cinderella,'' a show that was rediscovered and restored in 2002.
        From 1958 to 1961, Mr. Lewine was the executive producer for CBS of ''The Young People's Concerts'' with Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic.
        He also produced Barbra Streisand's first television special, ''My Name Is Barbra,'' on CBS in 1965, for which he won an Emmy. Other notable television productions included ''Aladdin'' (1958), with original music by Cole Porter; and three No
        l Coward specials for CBS.
        As director of special television programming for CBS from 1952 to 1961, he was in charge of the network's ventures into color.
        In collaboration with Rodgers and Hammerstein, he assembled a Broadway cast for their ''Cinderella,'' with a young Julie Andrews in the title role. The live broadcast proved a hit for CBS, with 107 million viewers. It also made Julie Andrews, who was performing in ''My Fair Lady'' then, into a national star.
        The original telecast production, unsophisticated by today's standards, was not seen again for 45 years until the surprise discovery of the complete rehearsal film (in black and white), without breaks, in the CBS tape archive in Hollywood in 2002. The recording was shown during a festival series, ''Richard Rodgers: The Sound of His Music,'' at the Museum of Television and Radio that year.
        Richard Lewine was born in Manhattan. He attended Columbia College and served in the Army Signal Corps in World War II, attaining the rank of captain. He was interim managing director of the Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization for several months after Mr. Rodgers's death in December 1979.
        With Alfred Simon, he wrote ''Songs of the American Theater'' (1973) as well as another, more complete guide to musical America: first published in the 1960's by Random House, this comprehensive guide was reissued most recently in 2003 as ''Encyclopedia of Theater Music: A Comprehensive Listing of More Than 4,000 Songs From Broadway and Hollywood,'' in print from Textbook Publishers.
        Mr. Lewine is survived by his wife of 35 years, Elizabeth Rivers Lewine; a son, Peter E. of Manhattan; a daughter, Cornelia L. Fortier of Westport, Conn.; and four grandchildren. His first wife, Mary Haas Lewine, died in 1968 after 23 years of marriage.
        Correction:  May 28, 2005, Saturday  An obituary of the Broadway composer and television producer Richard Lewine on Thursday misidentified the version of the 1957 TV musical ''Cinderella'' that had been unseen until its rediscovery in 2002. It was the first dress rehearsal of the program, which Mr. Lewine produced, not a film of the final telecast, which has been available for years.
      