
        Daniel Schwarz, who rose from clerk to the top editor of the Sunday department of The New York Times in a 44-year-career, died on Saturday at a hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 96.
        He died after injuring his head in a fall while on a visit to his wife, Peggy, who lives in a nursing home in Bradenton, their son Edward said..
        When Mr. Schwarz came to work at The Times as an office boy in the late 1920's, between his junior and senior years in college, the Sunday department was separate from the rest of the newspaper and produced The Times Magazine, the Book Review, the Travel section, the Week in Review and the Arts & Leisure section (once called the drama section). He returned to the department after graduation, in 1929, and remained there his entire career. He eventually advanced to assistant Sunday editor, a position he held for 14 years, and then was Sunday editor for eight years, until his retirement in 1973.
        Mr. Schwarz was for many years the indispensable deputy to the famously autocratic Lester Markel, the longtime Sunday editor, who resisted encroachments onto his autonomous domain and reported not to the paper's editor but directly to the publisher.
        The demanding Mr. Markel was not without admiration for Mr. Schwarz. He once wrote that Mr. Schwarz had become as much a part of the Sunday paper as the distinctive nameplate of the paper.
        ''He has a purring yet persuasive way with a blue pencil,'' Mr. Markel wrote in Times Talk, a newsletter for employees. ''He has the graphic touch that lends charm as well as authenticity to a layout.''
        By the 1960's, however, the paper was moving toward a consolidation of departments, and Mr. Markel was promoted to associate editor in 1964 and relieved of Sunday department oversight. Mr. Schwarz succeeded him and embarked on a program of gradual modernization.
        Among Mr. Schwarz's innovations in his years as Sunday editor was the introduction of color to the magazine, both on the cover and inside. He redesigned the Book Review, seeking a livelier presentation. He also revised the Week in Review to include signed news-analysis articles and dropped the sweeping news summary in the review's first two pages.
        Jack Rosenthal, a former Times editor who is now president of The New York Times Foundation, said Mr. Schwarz brought the review to ''modern readability.''
        Turner Catledge, who was appointed executive editor when Mr. Schwarz was named Sunday editor, wrote in his 1971 memoir, ''My Life and The Times,'' that Mr. Schwarz's ''soft-spoken, wonderfully agreeable nature'' helped him break down traditional barriers between the Sunday and daily departments of the paper, a process that was not fully completed until 1976. Mr. Catledge arranged regular meetings so the separate departments could trade and generate ideas.
        In addition to his wife, the former Peggy Mechanic, and his son Edward, of Weston, Conn., Mr. Schwarz is survived by his sons Allan, of Seattle, and Richard, of Oakland, Calif., eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Daniel Schwarz was born in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn on Aug. 16, 1908, and went to New Utrecht High School and then City College. His summer stint as an office boy came in 1928, and he was hired as a regular employee to type and do clerical work in February 1929.
        He quickly demonstrated versatility by writing book reviews and magazine articles, and in 1935 became an editorial assistant, working on pictures and layouts for the magazine and, later, for the Week in Review. In February 1939, he was put in charge of magazine layout, and six months later became Sunday picture editor. Within three months, he was named an assistant to Mr. Markel.
        His responsibilities continued to increase, particularly at the magazine, and in 1950 he became assistant Sunday editor, Mr. Markel's deputy. Mr. Markel once called Mr. Schwarz ''an active frontal lobe and a strong right arm,'' and praised him further in a bit of doggerel written when Mr. Schwarz became his deputy.
        ''I'm sure I'd have migraine, mildew, hives and wartz/If I didn't have the help of Daniel Schwarz.''
      