
        Dr. Marshall S. Horwitz, a virologist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine who studied potential keys to the immune system held by adenoviruses, a group of about 40 DNA viruses often affecting children, died on Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital on Long Island. He was 68 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        A cause was not determined, his family said.
        Adenoviruses are contagious viruses that often appear in the respiratory system and can cause pneumonia, croup and acute respiratory disease. Dr. Horwitz studied their growth, as well as their genetic and molecular structures, in light of the viruses' success in defeating the human immune system.
        Working in the 1980's and 90's, Dr. Horwitz and others investigated adenoviruses as a vehicle in cellular and gene therapy. The scientists used adenovirus genes as a gateway into immune defenses to transplant pancreatic cells successfully in mice.
        The research may have applications in the transplantation of human tissue to enable patients with diabetes to produce their own insulin.
        A colleague, Dr. Matthew Scharff, a professor in Einstein's department of cell biology, said that Dr. Horwitz ''made the interesting discovery that the viruses make substances that protect them from the immune response.''
        ''He then had a unique idea of putting the genes into cells to suspend the response and went on to show how we can use it,'' Dr. Scharff said.
        Dr. Horwitz and other researchers also employed adenoviruses to study the mechanism of DNA replication. In the 1980's, he was part of an early international team that suggested an association between an adenovirus and the AIDS virus. The team's findings, which were made before the discovery of H.I.V., were published in The Lancet in 1983.
        Marshall Sydney Horwitz was born in Boston. He graduated from Harvard and earned his medical degree from Tufts University in 1962.
        A virologist with the National Communicable Disease Center in Atlanta until 1969, Dr. Horwitz next joined Einstein, an affiliate of Yeshiva University. He was appointed professor of cell biology there in 1979, and held a variety of posts, including chairman of microbiology and immunology.
        The son of an electrician, Dr. Horwitz understood electrical circuitry and sometimes even reviewed plans for Einstein's building projects.
        From 1972 to 1999, he directed Einstein's division of pediatric infectious diseases. He also served as an associate director of the medical college's cancer center. In 1994, he was elected to the American Academy of Microbiology.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Susan Band Horwitz, who is a co-chairwoman of the department of molecular pharmacology at Einstein; two sons, Dr. Bruce, of Lexington, Mass., an assistant professor of pediatrics at Harvard, and Joshua, of Arlington, Va.; a sister, Toba Hausner of Silver Spring, Md.; and two grandchildren.
      