
        John Lawrence Collins Jr., a journalist and author known as Larry Collins, whose best-selling books included ''Is Paris Burning?'' and ''O Jerusalem!,'' died yesterday in Fréjus in the south of France. He was 75 and lived in Ramatuelle, on the Riviera.
        The cause was a brain hemorrhage, according to Dominique Lapierre, his French co-author and fellow researcher, who had been his collaborator since they met at Allied Headquarters in postwar France. He announced the death to The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse.
        The two were authors of both ''Is Paris Burning?'' (Simon and Schuster, 1965) and ''O Jerusalem!'' (1972), nonfiction works reconstructing the liberation of Paris in World War II and the rebirth of Israel as a Jewish state. For their historical works, the writers revisited the sites of some of the 20th century's most controversial events and interviewed many protagonists and witnesses.
        The results usually won critical approval and brisk book sales. ''Is Paris Burning?'' was also made into a 1966 action film, directed by René Clément, with Jean-Paul Belmondo, Charles Boyer, Leslie Caron, Alain Delon and Kirk Douglas as Gen. George S. Patton. Gert Fröbe played the German general whom Hitler had expected to torch Paris if he could not prevent its takeover by the French Resistance.
        Mr. Collins and Mr. Lapierre also collaborated on other books, published in both English and French. They included ''Or I'll Dress You in Mourning'' (1967), about Spain and the bullfighter El Cordobés; ''Freedom at Midnight'' (1975), about India's liberation from Britain; ''The Fifth Horseman'' (1980), a best-selling novel about nuclear terrorism; and ''Mountbatten and the Partition of India'' (1982).
        Mr. Collins's first solo effort was a thriller, ''Fall From Grace'' (1985).
        He also wrote ''Maze: A Novel'' (1989), ''Black Eagles'' (1995) and, most recently, again with Mr. Lapierre, ''Is New York Burning?'' (2004).
        John Lawrence Collins was born on Sept. 14, 1929, in Hartford, Conn., and graduated from Yale in 1951. The Collins-Lapierre team began when both men were soldiers in their countries' armies, serving at Shape headquarters near Paris in the early 1950's.
        Mr. Collins joined United Press International and was assigned to its Paris bureau in 1956. He then reported from Rome and from Beirut before being named chief of the agency's Middle East bureau in 1957. In 1959 he moved to Newsweek as Middle East editor in New York. He was Newsweek's Paris bureau chief from 1961 to 1964, when he quit topical journalism to write full time with Mr. Lapierre.
        Mr. Collins was married in 1966 to Nadia Hoda Sultan, and they had two sons, John Lawrence III and Michael Kevin. There was no immediate word on his survivors.
      