
        Louis R. Lucas, a Tennessee lawyer who came to prominence in the drawn-out battles over school desegregation and busing resulting from the Brown v. Board of Education decision of 1954, died on Monday in Memphis. He was 70 and lived in suburban Germantown, Tenn.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        A white Southern-born former federal prosecutor, Mr. Lucas was a lawyer, and at times chief counsel, in cases pressed by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund to integrate classrooms in both Northern and Southern cities and suburbs.
        He led the fund's trial team in 1972 when it won a school desegregation decision in Federal District Court in Richmond, Va., with far-reaching significance for metropolitan areas. The ruling, by Judge Robert R. Merhige Jr., forced the racial integration of the Richmond city and suburban public schools.
        ''There is no metropolitan area in the country,'' Mr. Lucas said at the time, ''that can escape the implications of this decision.''
        Citing the example of South Africa, he said, the issue was: ''Are we going to be another nation of apartheid? I think this case may decide it.''
        After the Richmond case, he went on to take part in integration cases of the 1970's affecting schools in Detroit and Dayton, Ohio, among others.
        In a benchmark case, Mr. Lucas was asked in 1973 to take over as the principal lawyer in Evans v. Buchanan, a long-running dispute involving the public schools of Wilmington, Del. Invoking a welter of data on school and housing segregation in the area, he won a decision from a three-judge federal trial court in 1975 ordering the remedy of busing across city lines into neighboring county school districts.
        An appeal of that decision went straight to the Supreme Court, which upheld it in November of that year, by 5 to 3, with one of its shortest rulings ever: ''Affirmed on appeal from D. C. Del. Reported below: 393 F. Supp. 428.''
        It was the first time the court had endorsed such busing into the suburbs as a means of achieving desegregation.
        Louis Russell Lucas was born in New Orleans and graduated in 1958 from Tulane University, where he received his law degree in 1960. He then worked as an assistant United States attorney in Louisiana and a trial lawyer for the Justice Department and its Civil Rights Division before going into private practice.
        After working for the N.A.A.C.P. affiliate, he stayed in private practice as a law partner, most recently in Louis R. Lucas & Associates in Memphis.
        Mr. Lucas is survived by his wife of 38 years, Bettye Daniel Lucas; two daughters, Lori E. Lucas of Germantown and Lisa L. Lucas of Cordova, Tenn.; two brothers, Joseph S. Jr., of Franklin, Tenn., and William F., of New Orleans; three sisters, Betty Chauvin of New Orleans, Mary F. Golladay of Flushing, Mich., and Alice Hendry of Dallas; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 25, 2005, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Louis R. Lucas, a lawyer prominently involved in the school desegregation and busing cases of the 1970's, referred incompletely to the outcome of one that he won in Richmond Federal Court in 1972 and misstated its ultimate effect on the area. While the trial judge ordered the racial integration of Richmond's city and suburban county school districts, the order was reversed on appeal as too sweeping, and the Supreme Court upheld that reversal. Thus the case did not result in court-ordered racial integration of the city and suburban schools.
      