
        Floriano Vecchi, an Italian-born artist, silkscreen printer and art publisher of the Warhol era in Greenwich Village, died on Friday at his home in the Village. He was 84.
        His death was announced by a friend, Rick Whitaker of the Italian Academy at Columbia University.
        Mr. Vecchi was born near Bologna and came to New York in 1952. He and a partner, Richard Miller, opened a successful business, Tiber Press, the next year, and Mr. Vecchi operated it until 1977. Together with Daisy Aldan they also started a small literary magazine, Folder, which became a vehicle for young writers of the period.
        The two men met in 1949 while studying at the University of Rome. As partners in New York, Mr. Miller largely took care of the business side, while Mr. Vecchi handled artistic design and production.
        Tiber Press printed poetry and the work of second-generation Abstract Expressionists like Alfred Leslie, Helen Frankenthaler, Georgia O'Keeffe, Paul Cadmus, Frank O'Hara and Ben Shahn, among others. Meanwhile, Mr. Vecchi's own figurative canvases were seen in shows in New York.
        The commercial success of Tiber Press lay primarily in its flourishing greeting-card and calendar business. Its trademark was sophisticated screen-printed Italianate design, especially in Christmas cards sold at Saks Fifth Avenue, Georg Jensen, Bergdorf Goodman and other stores around the country.
        Mr. Vecchi may have left another lasting impression on the New York art scene in 1962 when Andy Warhol visited Tiber to have a screen made of a dollar bill he had drawn on paper, the first of his United States currency compositions.
        According to Riva Castleman in the June 2004 issue of Print Quarterly, Mr. Vecchi told Warhol to redraw it on Mylar for refinement and instructed him in the screen-printing process, which Warhol promptly introduced in his studio, passing it on to Robert Rauschenberg as well.
        Mr. Vecchi also figured in a book by Paula Fox, ''Amzat and His Brothers: Three Italian Folk Tales Remembered by Floriano Vecchi,'' published by Orchard Press in 1993.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      