
        Dr. Eugene Stead Jr., a medical educator who created the country's first program for physician assistants at Duke University in the 1960's, died on June 12 at his home in Bullock, N.C. He was 96.
        He died in his sleep, said his son, William Stead.
        In the 1960's, as chairman of the department of medicine at Duke University Medical Center, Dr. Stead was one of several medical educators who recognized that trained people who lacked a complete medical education could still perform many clinical services and valuable assistance to overworked doctors. The first graduates of the two-year program, which he started in 1965, were former Navy hospital corpsmen.
        ''Dr. Stead was a profoundly original thinker,'' said Dr. Barton Haynes, a professor of medicine at Duke and a longtime colleague. ''When folks were coming back from the Vietnam War, everyone saw that they needed jobs, but he saw that those who had been in the medical corps could play a role as a new type of caregiver. He was the one who made that happen.''
        Dr. Stead's faith in the possibilities of the new profession helped it overcome regulatory and philosophical resistance from some quarters of the health care establishment.
        There are now more than 100 programs to train physician assistants and 50,000 licensed practitioners, who conduct physicals, prescribe medications, order and interpret diagnostic tests, and provide clinical care, among other responsibilities.
        In a 2000 article, Dr. Stead was quoted as saying that ''a person with a high school education, a reasonable rate of learning and a tolerance of the unavoidably irrational demands often made by sick people can learn to do well those things a doctor does each day.''
        Dr. Stead was also known for his groundbreaking studies of cardiac catheterization and congestive heart failure. He was an early proponent of the role that computer analysis could play in medical practice, and he helped to develop a research database that evolved into the Duke Clinical Research Institute, which today maintains diagnostic and treatment data on more than 250,000 patients.
        Eugene Anson Stead Jr. was born in Atlanta in 1908, one of six children of Eugene Anson Stead and the former Emily White. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Emory University and pursued further training in internal medicine and surgery in Boston and Cincinnati before returning to teach at Emory, where he was dean of the medical school in the mid-1940's.
        He was appointed chairman of the department of medicine at Duke in 1947 and held that position for 20 years.
        Dr. Stead's wife, Evelyn, died in 2003. Besides his son, William, who lives in Nashville, he is survived by two daughters, Nancy Atwood of Gainesville, Ga., and Lucy Barnhill of Raleigh, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      