
        Gen. Bernard A. Schriever, who oversaw the Air Force's development of intercontinental ballistic missiles and other rockets that ushered in the space age and escalated the weapons race with the Soviet Union, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 94.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his wife, the singer Joni James.
        General Schriever was the leading missile officer for the Air Force from the mid-1950's until well into the 60's.
        He was named commander of the Air Force Western Development Division, a euphemistic code name for the top-secret I.C.B.M. development program that began in 1954. Then he headed the Ballistic Missile Division of the Air Research and Development Command and finally was chief of the Air Force Systems Command.
        In what amounted to dual roles as general and industrialist, he oversaw research and development of the Atlas, Titan, Thor and Minuteman missiles as he shuttled from Air Force installations to contractors' plants.
        The I.C.B.M. program was an underpinning of American military policy at the height of the cold war with the Soviet Union, when closing the ''missile gap'' was a top priority.
        The powerful missiles, feared for their potential to deliver nuclear weapons to targets thousands of miles away, also took on a peacetime role. Atlas rockets carried American astronauts into orbit in the Mercury program. The Titan was the workhorse of the Gemini space program.
        Bernard Schriever (rhymes with beaver) so believed in missile development that, as a mere colonel in 1952, he dared to disagree with Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, the formidable commander of the Strategic Air Command. General LeMay championed the B-52 bomber as the best delivery vehicle for nuclear bombs. Colonel Schriever politely but firmly disagreed, witnesses said.
        Although General LeMay remained a devotee of the B-52, the colonel had made his point. He also proved to be prescient about the space race.
        ''In the long haul, our safety as a nation may depend on our achieving space superiority,'' he said in an interview in February 1957. ''We should be spending a certain fraction of our national resources to insure that we do not lag. Our prestige as world leaders might well dictate that we undertake lunar expeditions and, even, interplanetary flight.''
        Eight months after that interview, powerful rockets carried the first satellite into space, the Sputnik, for the Soviet Union. The Soviets were also first to put a man in space, Col. Yuri A. Gagarin, in April 1961.
        Soon thereafter, President John F. Kennedy called on the United States to commit itself to sending a man to the Moon and returning him safely by the end of the decade.
        Bernard Adolf Schriever was born in Bremen, Germany, on Sept. 10, 1910. His father was an engineer for a German steamship line and was interned in the United States in 1917. His family joined him, settling in a German-American community near San Antonio.
        Bernard Schriever became an American citizen in 1923, several years after his father was killed in an industrial accident, and attended Texas A&M University, graduating with an engineering degree in 1931. He entered the Army, then enrolled in the Army Air Corps Flying School at Kelly Field, Tex.
        He flew mail missions for the Air Corps, the Air Force predecessor, and received a master's in engineering from Stanford University in 1942. In World War II, he flew 63 combat missions as a B-17 pilot in the South Pacific. After the war, he was assigned to the Pentagon.
        After retiring as a four-star general in 1966, he was an industry consultant. In 1983, he headed an advisory group that recommended development of smaller intercontinental missiles, as well as larger versions.
        His marriage to Dora Brett ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. James, surviving are a son, Brett, of Colorado Springs, and 2 daughters, Dodie Moeller of Stevensville, Md., and Barbara Allan of Washington, from his first marriage; 2 stepchildren, Michelangelo Acquaviva of Joppa, Ala., and Angela Mia Acquaviva of Melbourne, Fla.; a brother, Gary, of San Antonio; and 11 grandchildren.
      