
        James Weinstein, the founder and longtime editor and publisher of the progressive magazine In These Times, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 78.
        The cause was brain cancer, the magazine's editors announced.
        Published twice a month, In These Times is concerned, in the words of its mission statement, with ''informing and analyzing popular movements for social, environmental and economic justice.'' Mr. Weinstein founded the magazine in Chicago in 1976 and was its editor and publisher until he retired in 1999.
        Originally trained as a historian, Mr. Weinstein also wrote several books about the progressive movement, most recently ''The Long Detour: The History and Future of the American Left,'' published in 2003. Reviewing that work, Kirkus Reviews said he ''demonstrates capably that socialist ideas have been a part of the American cultural and political landscape since the early days of the Republic, and have even flourished on occasion, particularly with the utopian communities of the early-19th and the labor activism of the early-20th centuries.''
        His other books included ''The Decline of Socialism in America, 1912-1925''; ''The Corporate Ideal in the Liberal State, 1900-1918''; and ''Ambiguous Legacy: The Left in American Politics.''
        James Weinstein was born in Manhattan on July 17, 1926, the son of a family that had made a considerable fortune in real estate. After serving in the Navy, he received a bachelor's degree in government from Cornell in 1949 and later completed a year of law school at Columbia. He returned to Columbia in 1956 for a master's in history.
        Having moved to Madison, Wis., in the early 1960's, he worked as an editor of the scholarly journal Studies on the Left. In the late 60's, he moved to San Francisco, where he started the journal Socialist Revolution (later Socialist Review) and founded the Modern Times bookstore. He later taught for a year at the Center for the Study of Social History in Covington, England.
        Mr. Weinstein ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1966 as an independent from the West Side of Manhattan. His platform called for an immediate cease-fire in Vietnam and the withdrawal of American troops.
        Mr. Weinstein joined the Communist Party in the late 1940's, but left in 1956 after the Soviet invasion of Hungary. Though he considered himself an ardent Socialist to the end of his life, in the early 1980's he angered some members of the left by saying publicly that he thought Julius Rosenberg had been guilty of espionage.
        Mr. Weinstein's first three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his fourth wife, Beth Maschinot; a sister, Lois Sontag of Stamford, Conn.; two children from his first marriage: Lisa, of Chicago, and Joshua, of San Francisco; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 24, 2005, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about James Weinstein, a historian and the founder of the magazine In These Times, misstated the location of the Center for the Study of Social History, where he taught for a year. It was based at the University of Warwick, in Coventry, England -- not in Covington, England.
      