
        Richard Eberhart, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet considered one of the foremost writers of lyric verse in the 20th century, died on Thursday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 101.
        Mr. Eberhart's daughter, Gretchen Eberhart Cherington, confirmed the death.
        The author of several dozen volumes of poetry, Mr. Eberhart won a Pulitzer Prize in 1966 for ''Selected Poems, 1930-1965'' (New Directions, 1965) and a National Book Award in 1977 for ''Collected Poems, 1930-1976'' (Oxford University, 1976).
        At his death, Mr. Eberhart was emeritus professor of English at Dartmouth College, where he had taught since 1956. He was also, variously, a crewman on a tramp steamer, a maker of furniture polish and a tutor to the crown prince of Siam.
        With their concern for the natural world, and their persistent exploration of the tension between spirit and matter, Mr. Eberhart's poems hark back to the Romantic tradition of Blake and Wordsworth. (He parted company with full-blown Romanticism through his use of short lines and irregular rhythms.) His style typically married an almost naïve description of sensory images with an erudite intellectualism. Though some critics found this marriage forced, for others it succeeded far more often than not.
        Reviewing Mr. Eberhart's work in The New York Times Book Review in 1969, the poet Jean Garrigue called him ''essentially a visionary for whom the sensory world is wonderfully vivid,'' praising ''his airiness of style when he is airy, his delicacy, his gusto and his élan.''
        Richard Ghormley Eberhart was born on April 5, 1904, in Austin, Minn. His father was a vice president of the George A. Hormel meatpacking company, and Richard grew up on his family's 40-acre estate, Burr Oaks, whose name he used as the title of volume of poems in 1947.
        When Richard was 18, his mother died of cancer. Shortly afterward, his father lost his fortune. These experiences, Mr. Eberhart would later say, helped make him a poet.
        Mr. Eberhart spent a year at the University of Minnesota before transferring to Dartmouth, where he earned bachelor's degree in English in 1926. After graduating, he traveled the world on a tramp freighter, ending up in England, where he earned a second bachelor's degree, from Cambridge University, in 1929. He later received a master's degree from Cambridge and did postgraduate work at Harvard.
        Returning to the United States in 1929, Mr. Eberhart spent a year as tutor to the son of King Prajadhipok of Siam (now Thailand), who came here for eye surgery with his family and 600 pieces of luggage in tow.
        In 1930, Mr. Eberhart published his first book of poems, ''A Bravery of Earth'' (Jonathan Cape). In 1941, he married Helen Elizabeth Butcher, and during World War II was an officer in the United States Naval Reserve.
        After the war, he worked for several years as an executive at the Butcher Polish Company, owned by his wife's family. He later built an academic career, teaching at the University of Washington, Harvard, Princeton, the University of Florida and elsewhere.
        Mr. Eberhart's wife died in 1993. Besides his daughter, of Meriden, N.H., he is survived by a son, Richard B., of Phippsburg, Me.; and six grandchildren.
        Among Mr. Eberhart's other awards are a Bollingen Prize, awarded by Yale for distinguished achievement in American poetry (1962, shared with John Hall Wheelock); and the Frost Medal of the Poetry Society of America (1986, shared with Allen Ginsberg). A fellow of the Academy of American Poets and a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, Mr. Eberhart was the consultant in poetry at Library of Congress from 1959 to 1961.
        His other books include ''The Quarry: New Poems'' (Oxford University, 1964); ''Shifts of Being'' (Oxford University, 1968); and ''The Long Reach: New & Uncollected Poems, 1948-1984'' (New Directions, 1984). The author of a number of verse plays, Mr. Eberhart was a founder, in 1950, of the Poets' Theater.
        While many of Mr. Eberhart's poems are concerned with mortality and dissolution, some, like ''This Fevers Me,'' published in ''Selected Poems, 1930-1965,'' were ecstatic songs of praise for the life force. The poem begins:
        This fevers me, this sun on green,
        On grass glowing, this young spring.
        The secret hallowing is come,
        Regenerate sudden incarnation,
        Mystery made visible
        In growth, yet subtly veiled in all,
        Ununderstandable in grass,
        In flowers, and in the human heart,
        This lyric mortal loveliness,
        The earth breathing, and the sun.
      