
        Forrest Perrin, a pianist and orchestra leader who for decades provided the soundtrack for society and fashion events, died on Friday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 88 and lived on the West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Perrin led his Forrest Perrin Orchestra from the 1960's until recently, its size ranging from three pieces to 16. He also was the musical director for galas and special events at Radio City Music Hall and Town Hall in Manhattan and on stages all over the country.
        Mr. Perrin was born in Elberton, Ga., and started playing the piano at 3. At 8 he was heard in Atlanta in children's programs on local radio. After high school he went to secretarial school and to Georgia State University and then worked for the Graham Paper Company.
        In World War II he served in the United States as an officer in the Army Air Forces. He graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, majoring in political science while also studying music more formally. Playing the piano on weekends in Palm Springs, Calif., he was hired by Rudy Vallee as an accompanist.
        Returning to Atlanta in the 1950's, he played with his sister Margaret at events like fashion shows that were broadcast locally. They both moved to New York, where Mr. Perrin studied music and related subjects at the Columbia University School of General Studies while playing with his sister at nightclubs and private parties from Philadelphia to Cape Cod.
        On Sundays he and Margaret were hosts on ''Piano Playhouse'' on ABC Radio, with Milton Cross as announcer. The program, featuring classical and pop guest artists, was heard on 600 ABC stations, as well on the Armed Forces Network, and won a Peabody award in 1952.
        After Margaret left for Atlanta around 1959, Mr. Perrin entertained, solo or with his orchestra, at Gracie Mansion, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center, accompanying Frank Sinatra, Ginger Rogers, Liza Minnelli and Mabel Mercer.
        He soon formed a new team with his wife, Lesley Davison, a composer and lyricist, producing shows for Fortune 500 companies, but he was probably most widely known as the music director of scores of high-fashion shows.
        Besides Lesley Davison Perrin, his wife of 44 years, and his sister, Margaret, of Atlanta, Mr. Perrin is survived by a daughter, Wendy Perrin Baker, and son, Christopher Scott Perrin, both of Manhattan; and two grandsons.
      