
        Verne Meisner, a virtuoso accordionist and bandleader who helped keep the polka alive and swinging into the age of rock and beyond, died on Friday in Milwaukee. He was 66 and lived in Waukesha, Wis.
        The cause was complications of melanoma, his son Steve said.
        Considered one of the titans of polka, Mr. Meisner was a bridge between the classics of the Lawrence Welk era and the pop-infused polkas of contemporary artists. To thousands of fans, he was second only to Frank Yankovic, the acknowledged king of polka, who died in 1998.
        For more than half a century, Mr. Meisner played for local taverns and Las Vegas nightclubs; European cities and Midwest state fairs; and weddings, cruises and countless jam sessions. Many of his fans followed him from city to city to dance the night away. He recorded dozens of albums and was inducted into five polka halls of fame.
        Mr. Meisner was a master of the Slovenian-style polka; also known as the Cleveland style, it features accordion and saxophone. But his own compositions -- he wrote more than 60 original polkas -- reflected an array of influences, from traditional German and Polish polkas to big-band music and even rock.
        The demand for polka is insatiable. The decades bracketing World War II were its heyday in the United States. And though the advent of rock sent polka into decline, for its most ardent fans, there was no giving up. They simply went underground.
        Today there are polka parties and polka clubs, polka conventions and polka cruises, polka chat rooms and polka tours, polka museums and polka memorabilia. Concentrated in the Upper Midwest, the polka subculture spans the country, with tens of thousands of adherents, perhaps more.
        One of the great pop-culture fads of 19th-century Europe, the polka originated, possibly in Bohemia, in the 1840's. For the time, it was a daring dance: men and women in a tight clinch, stomping across the floor to a vigorous 2/4 beat.
        In the late 1800's, immigrants from Eastern, Central and Northern Europe carried the polka with them to the farms of Minnesota, the coal mines of Pennsylvania, the meatpacking plants of Chicago and as far south as Texas and Mexico. Today, it remains a badge of ethnic and class identity, danced in blue-collar taverns and rural social halls.
        LaVerne Donald Meisner was born in Milwaukee on Dec. 4, 1938, and grew up in Whitewater, Wis. He picked up his first accordion at 8, and by 11, was playing in local bars. As a teenager, he toured with Mr. Yankovic's band and also formed his own, Verne Meisner and the Polka Boys. It made its recording debut in 1958 with ''Memories of Vienna,'' one of his best-known original tunes; his others include ''El Rio Drive.''
        Mr. Meisner's first marriage, to Judith Ann Kutz, ended in divorce. He is survived by their three children: Steve, of Whitewater, also an accordionist and bandleader; Daniel, of Seattle; and Michelle Bush of Milton, Wis.; a brother, Henry Jr., of Whitewater; a sister, Donna Borger, of Horicon, Wis.; and five grandchildren. His second wife, the former Shirley Tyson, died in the mid-1980's.
        Mr. Meisner, who struggled with alcoholism after a lifetime spent playing in bars, quit drinking in his 40's and was sober for the last 20 years of his life, his son said. In 1989, he was inducted into the International Polka Hall of Fame.
        Partly because of artists like Mr. Meisner, the polka, often an object of derision in the larger culture, has endured into the 21st century.
        ''It's about being members of a community,'' Richard March, a folklorist with the Wisconsin Arts Board, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''Individual navel-gazing, which you have so much of in angst-ridden pop and alternative rock -- the bulk of polka people would say: 'Get over it! Go out and dance!'''
      