
        Dr. William J. Thaler, an experimental physicist of the Cold War era who helped design an early electronic surveillance system for the Navy that was used to monitor missile tests and satellite launchings worldwide, died on June 5 at his home in Centreville, Va. He was 79.
        The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Thaler conducted most of his secret research for the military in the 1950's before spending the rest of his career at Georgetown University, where he was chairman of the physics department from 1960 to 1976.
        The surveillance system was code-named Teepee, derived from T.P., for Thaler's Project. Dr. Thaler's design combined two branches of physics research then under way. The first involved issuing high-frequency radio signals to bounce between the Earth's surface and the ionosphere, part of the upper atmosphere. The second branch was concerned with recording disruption of the radio signals, called back-scatter, caused by rocket launchings and nuclear tests.
        Working at the Office of Naval Research in Arlington, Va., Dr. Thaler and other scientists were able to pick up radio disruptions from nuclear tests held in Nevada and were later successful in tracking a Polaris missile fired from Cape Canaveral in 1957. The concept became known as over-the-horizon radar.
        Dr. Thaler's expertise was then used in the Navy's nuclear testing of the hydrogen bomb and for Project Argus in 1958, which was intended to measure the effects of radiation from three atomic bombs detonated in the upper atmosphere.
        In later work at Georgetown, Dr. Thaler became interested in the idea of using lasers as tools of communication over short distances. In the late 1960's, he performed ''groundbreaking work in laser communications, found new techniques for creating laser energy and had many useful ideas for using laser light,'' said Dr. Gerald M. Borsuk, superintendent of the Naval Research Laboratory's Electronics, Science and Technology division in Washington.
        Dr. Borsuk, a former student of Dr. Thaler, added: ''Laser science was in its infancy. Dr. Thaler was aggressive in plunging into the field.''
        William John Thaler was born in Baltimore. He attended Loyola College and earned his doctorate from Catholic University in 1952.
        Dr. Thaler joined Georgetown in 1960, helped enlarge the physics faculty and, as department chairman, created a low-energy nuclear physics facility for experimentation. From 1976 to 1979, he took a leave to serve as chief scientist and director of the Office of Telecommunications Policy, within the Executive Office of the President, in the Ford and Carter administrations.
        He then returned to Georgetown and remained there until becoming a professor emeritus in 1996. Dr. Thaler, who was a former Maryland state champion in tennis doubles, also briefly helped coach the tennis team at Georgetown.
        Dr. Thaler is survived by his wife of 54 years, Barbara; a daughter, Dr. Alice Thaler of Thurmont, Md.; three sons, Gregory, of Herndon, Va.; Paul, of Rixeyville, Va.; and Peter, of Gainesville, Va.; and nine grandchildren.
      