
        Dale Velzy, a master surfboard maker widely considered one of the men responsible for the rise of the California surfer culture in the years after World War II, died on May 26 at a hospital in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 77 and lived in San Clemente.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Fran Hoff, Mr. Velzy's companion.
        The first person to commercialize the sport, Mr. Velzy (pronounced VELL-zee) opened the first surf shop in the United States, in 1950. By the end of the decade, he was the world's biggest surfboard manufacturer, his work sought after by the country's top surfers.
        Today, surfing is a multibillion-dollar global business, comprising surf shops, board manufacturers, surfwear companies, surfing magazines and other enterprises.
        Known as Hawk for his keen eyesight, Mr. Velzy worked largely by hand, fashioning raw lengths of wood or synthetic material into streamlined boards that cut through the water swiftly, turned on a dime and, ideally, kept their riders upright. His art -- it could take a week of painstaking planing and sanding to make a single board -- is known in the surf community as shaping.
        ''The process itself is really a three-dimensional sculpture,'' Paul Holmes, the author of a coming biography of Mr. Velzy, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''And that three-dimensional sculpture has to work on, in and through the water.''
        In the mid-1940's, when Mr. Velzy built his first boards, the Beach Boys were in diapers and the word ''dude'' was usually followed by ''ranch.'' Surfing was the hobby of a reckless few, and surfboard-making was a tiny cottage industry: a few young men working out of their garages, shaping boards for themselves and their friends.
        In those years, surfboards were made from enormous lengths of redwood, chipped down to manageable size with an adze. A finished board weighed as much as a hundred pounds, deterring many would-be surfers.
        ''They were very cumbersome and they were difficult to ride,'' Mr. Holmes said. ''They were difficult just to get to the beach.''
        Mr. Holmes's book, ''Dale Velzy Is Hawk,'' is scheduled to be published this fall by the Surf Education Committee, a nonprofit organization.
        Dale Warren Velzy was born in Oakland, Calif., on Sept. 23, 1927, and grew up in Southern California. His grandfather was a cabinetmaker, his father a woodworker and part-time lifeguard. Dale began surfing as a boy; by the time he was 10 or 12, he and his father, using woodworking tools passed down from his grandfather, were making their own wooden surfboards. Dale quit school in the seventh grade, and at the start of World War II joined the merchant marine.
        After the war, Mr. Velzy returned to Southern California and began building surfboards commercially. It was a good time to be a shaper: boards were finally growing lighter. By the late 1940's, board makers were using balsa wood and fiberglass; by the mid-1950's, the balsa had been supplanted by polyurethane foam. A typical board weighed less than 50 pounds.
        One of Mr. Velzy's most innovative designs, from the mid-1950's, was known as the Pig. ''This board was narrow in the nose and wide and curvaceous in the tail,'' Mr. Holmes said. ''It was completely counterintuitive, but it happened to turn really well.''
        In 1950, Mr. Velzy opened his first surf shop, in Manhattan Beach, and in 1954, he and a partner, Harold Jacobs, began manufacturing custom boards. By 1960, Mr. Velzy, who had bought out his partner, owned five retail shops and three production facilities in California and Hawaii.
        During this period, Mr. Velzy developed promotional techniques that are standard today, including offering corporate sponsorship to top-ranked surfers. He bankrolled an early surfing documentary, ''Slippery When Wet'' (1958), shot in Hawaii by a surfer-turned-filmmaker named Bruce Brown. Mr. Brown went on to make classics like ''The Endless Summer'' (1966) and ''The Endless Summer II'' (1994).
        A gregarious man known for his love of horses, fast cars and beautiful women, Mr. Velzy was married and divorced five times, Mr. Holmes said. Besides Ms. Hoff, his partner of 27 years, he is survived by two children from his second marriage: a son, Matt, of Makawao, Hawaii, and a daughter, Malia Cohen, of Thousand Palms, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
        In recent years, Mr. Velzy was known for his handmade reproductions of vintage wooden boards from the 1930's, 40's and 50's. The finest of these, prized as works of art, sell for up to $10,000, Mr. Holmes said.
      