
        Cyril I. Nelson, a prominent collector of American folk art who donated about 150 pieces to the permanent collection of the American Folk Art Museum in New York, died on June 1 in Fairfield, Conn. He was 78. A longtime resident of New York City, Mr. Nelson had lived in Fairfield for the last several years.
        The cause was colon cancer, his niece Anna Nelson said.
        For a half century Mr. Nelson was an editor at E.P. Dutton, now a division of Penguin Putnam. There, he published many seminal books about folk art, including ''American Painted Furniture, 1660-1880'' (1972), by Dean A. Fales Jr. and Robert Bishop, considered a classic in the field. He also developed and edited the Quilt Engagement Calendar, published annually from 1981 to 2001.
        In conjunction with the museum, Mr. Nelson published a number of its exhibition catalogs, including ''Glorious American Quilts'' (1996), by Elizabeth V. Warren and Sharon L. Eisenstat. He became a trustee of the museum in 1974.
        Over the years, Mr. Nelson gave the museum many works from his own collection, most made between 1800 and 1940. In 2000 the museum featured many of Mr. Nelson's gifts in an exhibition, ''An Engagement With Folk Art,'' which included paintings, sculpture and furniture.
        Mr. Nelson's great love was textiles, and the exhibition included many significant examples of weaving, needlework and quilting. Among the most notable was a vibrant quilt in the Courthouse Steps pattern, sewn in explosive shades of red, orange and blue silk by a New York City tailor in the late 19th century.
        This fall, some decorated furniture and boxes from Mr. Nelson's collection will be displayed in the museum's exhibition ''Surface Attraction: Painted Furniture From the Collection,'' scheduled to open on Sept. 20.
        Cyril Irwin Nelson was born in Baltimore on May 6, 1927, and grew up in New Jersey. His family's home there and their summer home in Maine were filled with antiques, instilling in him a passion for the work of fine artisans. Mr. Nelson earned a bachelor's degree from Princeton.
        Mr. Nelson is survived by his companion, Cary Baker of Exeter, N.H.; and three brothers: Guerdon, of Exeter; Nicholas, of Portland, Me.; and Michael, of Dover, N.H.
      