
        Jon Idígoras, a founder of the Basque separatist party that is considered the political arm of the militant group ETA, died Friday at the Vicente San Sebastián de Deusto Clinic in Bilbao, Spain. He was 69, and lived in nearby Amorebieta.
        The cause was complications from a respiratory illness, said Juan Petrikorena, a spokesman for the party.
        Mr. Idígoras began his political career in the underground workers groups that agitated against the authoritarian rule of Gen. Francisco Franco, who governed Spain from 1939 until his death in 1975.
        Mr. Idígoras left Spain after being arrested by Franco's forces several times in the early 1970's, but returned in 1976. He began working to channel the separatist movement into a political force that could lobby for independence from the democratic government that was forming in Madrid.
        In 1978, the year that Spain approved its post-Franco constitution, which kept the Basque region within Spanish borders, Mr. Idígoras helped found the separatist party Herri Batasuna, now called Batasuna.
        The party united several of the Basque separatist parties that had formed after 1974, when ETA split into military and political factions. But the party's ties with ETA, which the European Union and the United States consider a terrorist group, made it a target of the antiterrorism policies of the central government.
        In 1998, judicial authorities in Madrid outlawed the group, saying its candidates could not run in parliamentary elections because they had ties to ETA.
        But the party, which has changed names several times in an occasionally successful effort to reinsert itself into electoral politics, remains influential in Basque politics, commanding a following of 100,000 to 150,000 of the Basque region's 2 million people, recent polls show.
        Throughout his political career, Mr. Idígoras would not publicly condemn ETA or its terrorist tactics, a decision that sowed permanent distrust of his motives among many politicians in Madrid.
        But in the Basque region, he was a revered figure among leftist radicals and other separatists, and was even respected by more mainstream politicians who sought greater Basque autonomy but opposed independence.
        ''He has long been one of the symbols of the political fight for Basque rights,'' said Gorka Knörr, a former vice president of the Basque Parliament and a supporter of Basque independence. ''Because of his age, his experiences and his charisma, he was able to reach beyond his own party and command respect for his views.''
      