
        David Whitney, a respected curator and prominent collector of contemporary art who was Philip Johnson's companion, acerbic alter ego and behind-the-scenes art adviser for more than 40 years, died on Sunday at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. He was 66.
        The cause was lung and bone cancer, said his sister, Anne Norsworthy.
        Though probably best known in New York social circles as a legendary architect's publicity-shy éminence grise, Mr. Whitney was a force of his own in the contemporary art world, where he organized exhibitions at the Whitney Museum of American Art of works by Cy Twombly, Jasper Johns and Andy Warhol, a close friend who made frequent references to Mr. Whitney in his famous diaries.
        In the 1980's Mr. Whitney also championed younger artists like Michael Heizer, Eric Fischl and David Salle, for whom he arranged midcareer retrospectives at the Whitney. (Mr. Whitney was not related to the family that founded the Whitney Museum.) As recently as last year, he organized a critically praised survey of Willem de Kooning's paintings at the Gagosian Gallery in Chelsea.
        In a rare profile of Mr. Whitney in The New York Times in 1996, Mr. Johnson, who died in January, was quoted as saying that he bought very little new art without Mr. Whitney's advice. ''David is my contemporary art,'' he said. ''I don't pretend to have an original eye.''
        But Mr. Whitney did, and used it to buy the work of many artists before they became huge stars, including that of Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, Frank Stella, James Rosenquist and Mr. Johns. Mr. Whitney's collection of Mr. Johns's works on paper is considered one of the best in private hands, and much of the important work that Mr. Johnson donated to the Museum of Modern Art over many years would not have ended up in the museum without Mr. Whitney's guidance. (Mr. Johnson bought Warhol's 1962 ''Gold Marilyn'' just after Mr. Whitney introduced him to the artist.)
        Mr. Whitney was not born into an artistic family. The son of a successful banker, he grew up in Worcester, Mass., and in one interview, in a remark characteristic of his dry wit, described his family as ''of absolutely no interest whatsoever.'' He studied architecture at the Rhode Island School of Design, and in 1960, while there, walked over to Brown University to hear Mr. Johnson give a lecture. He boldly approached Mr. Johnson, 33 years his elder, and secured a promise of a tour of his renowned Glass House in New Canaan, Conn. Mr. Whitney showed up the next weekend, and their relationship began almost immediately. In an interview with W magazine in 2002, Mr. Whitney recalled impishly: ''I was just legal.''
        After college, Mr. Whitney moved in with Mr. Johnson, and, with the architect's help, was hired at the Museum of Modern Art. He later worked at several galleries, including Leo Castelli's, and briefly ran his own gallery. He also worked as an assistant for artists, including Mr. Johns, and became renowned for his talent at arranging and installing exhibitions. Through the 1960's, he was heavily involved in the New York art world, and once even performed -- naked -- in a Claes Oldenburg happening.
        ''Everybody wanted to be the star,'' he recalled later, ''so I just decided to upstage them and take my clothes off.''
        He was in general far more private than that suggests, and in fact did not appear frequently in public with Mr. Johnson until the 1970's, when Mr. Johnson said he was chided at a dinner party by Barbara Walters for not bringing his companion to parties. But even as they began to appear more as a couple, Mr. Whitney remained very independent and pursued collecting not only paintings and drawings but also everything from Philippe Starck furniture and objects to Tiffany glass to George Ohr pottery.
        He was also devoted to gardening, a lifelong passion that his sister said was one of his first loves as a child. (Besides his sister, of Acton, Mass., he is survived by a brother, George Clarkson Whitney, of Greer, S.C.)
        In the 1980's, he bought a house for himself across the road from the Glass House, and in 2000 he bought a ranch house in Big Sur, Calif., where he entertained friends like Frank Gehry. In recent years, he was also increasingly relied upon by wealthy collectors like Ronald S. Lauder, chairman of the Modern's board, for his advice about their acquisitions.
        But Mr. Whitney, self-effacing to the point of comedy, rarely acknowledged publicly that his life as a connoisseur might have a lasting impact. In the W magazine interview, he summed up his collecting career with Mr. Johnson by making it sound like little more than a weekend garage-sale habit.
        ''We did all right,'' he said. ''But we weren't serious collectors. It was just kind of fun.''
      