
        Arthur Zankel, a financier who oversaw the Carnegie Hall endowment fund and made a $10 million donation that led to the construction of a new concert space there named for him, died in a fall from his Upper East Side apartment building on Thursday. He was 73.
        Mr. Zankel, who had been suffering from depression, jumped from the ninth floor of the building, on Fifth Avenue, said Sanford I. Weill, a close friend and the chairman of Carnegie Hall and Citigroup. ''He had extended medical treatment and tried his best, and the illness won out,'' Mr. Weill said.
        An astute numbers cruncher, Mr. Zankel made his fortune as an investment manager. He was an early investor in Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett's holding company, and served on Citigroup's board. Mr. Weill called him not only a friend of nearly 50 years but also the ''most valued adviser'' of his career.
        ''He helped me think through how I might structure, and where I should be interested, basically in everything I did or didn't do,'' Mr. Weill said. ''He could see through situations. He could help one reach a conclusion rapidly that was filled with common sense.''
        The name Zankel (pronounced zan-KELL) might have remained in the corporate shadows if not for Mr. Zankel's lead gift to build what is now the Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall, which opened in September 2003. With a capacity of about 600, Zankel Hall is one of three spaces at Carnegie and is dedicated to eclectic and educational events.
        Mr. Weill said he suggested that Mr. Zankel make a gift when Carnegie officials were planning to build the hall in the late 1990's. ''He said, 'Why don't we do it together?''' Mr. Weill said. ''Basically, I said, 'This would be a great thing for you. I have enough, you should do it.' We had the whole thing done in no more than a week or 10 days.'' (Carnegie's other small concert space is called Weill Recital Hall.)
        Carnegie Hall said it raised $106 million, exceeding Zankel Hall's eventual cost of $72 million, with the remainder returned to the general endowment fund.
        The hall, whose seating and stage can be reconfigured, presents world music, jazz, pop and new-music concerts, as well as traditional recitals and chamber music. It immediately assumed an important place on the New York cultural scene.
        ''I think he took enormous delight in what the hall meant,'' said Ara Guzelimian, Carnegie Hall's artistic adviser. ''Arthur had an incredibly mischievous sense of humor, and he loved to mix things up.'' He often attended Zankel Hall events and bought blocks of tickets for his children and their friends, Carnegie officials said.
        Arthur Zankel was born on Feb. 16, 1932, in New York City. He earned an undergraduate degree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
        After graduation, he joined Hallgarten & Company. In 1965 he moved to First Manhattan Company, an investment management company, where he was co-managing partner from 1979 to 1997 and senior partner for the next two years. In 2000, he founded High Rise Capital Management, where he was the co-managing partner. The firm manages partnerships that invest in real estate investment trusts.
        He served on Citigroup's board until 2004, when he reached the mandatory retirement age.
        Mr. Zankel joined Carnegie's board in 1992, at Mr. Weill's urging, and was vice chairman at the time of his death. He took music appreciation classes to understand the field better. From 1996 to 2002, he managed Carnegie Hall's endowment fund. The fund grew nearly sevenfold, to $124 million -- largely through increased giving, but also because of strong performance, Mr. Weill said.
        Mr. Zankel was also a trustee of Teachers College at Columbia University. He underwrote a tutoring program, TC Reading Buddies, for Harlem youngsters, staffed by 40 Teachers College students.
        He is survived by his wife, Judy; four sons from a previous marriage, Kenneth, James, R. Thomas and Mark; and two grandchildren. Mr. Zankel also had homes in Armonk, N.Y., and on Cape Cod.
      