
        Luther Vandross, the silky-voiced R&B crooner who spun romance into hits like ''Here and Now'' and ''Any Love,'' winning eight Grammy Awards, died yesterday afternoon at John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 54.
        The medical center, which did not disclose the cause, released a statement saying that Mr. Vandross ''had a peaceful passing under the watchful eye of friends, family and the medical support team.'' It added that he ''never fully recovered'' from a stroke he suffered at his Manhattan apartment on April 16, 2003.
        Mr. Vandross, whose supple tenor and smooth delivery drew ecstatic swoons from his fans, had kept a low profile since the stroke, though he did appear on videotape at the annual Grammy telecast in 2004, when he was a sentimental favorite to win several awards. He won four that night, including best song for ''Dance With My Father,'' a bittersweet reflection on his youth. He delivered his acceptance speech on the video. ''Remember, when I say goodbye, it's never for long,'' he said, breaking into a signature hit, ''because I believe in the power of love.''
        Mr. Vandross also appeared on Oprah Winfrey's show later that year, when she visited him as he underwent rehabilitation.
        Mr. Vandross sold an estimated 30 million albums. His ''Dance With My Father'' album on J Records made its debut at No.1 on the Billboard chart while he remained hospitalized from the stroke.
        He ranked as one of the most successful R&B singers of the 1980's and broke through to even wider commercial success in 1989 with ''The Best of Luther Vandross, the Best of Love,'' which included the new song ''Here and Now,'' his first Top 10 hit.
        Born in New York City in 1951, Mr. Vandross was the youngest of four children. His father, an upholsterer, died when Mr. Vandross was still a boy, leaving his mother, a nurse, to support the family.
        While in high school, Mr. Vandross developed an affinity for the legendary Motown label's all-female acts, and for the gospel-soul sounds of artists like Aretha Franklin and Cissy Houston. Dreaming of a career in music, he briefly attended Western Michigan University.
        In 1972, a song Mr. Vandross wrote, ''Everybody Rejoice,'' was included in the Broadway musical ''The Wiz.'' But his biggest early break came when he landed a job as a backup singer for the British glam-rock artist David Bowie, who later hired him to work on vocal arrangements for the album ''Young Americans.''
        Mr. Vandross soon became a sought-after backup singer and arranger, working for artists from Bette Midler to Barbra Streisand, and he helped pay the bills as an anonymous performer of commercial jingles. In the late 1970's, he recorded under different names and with a variety of groups, including Bionic Boogie and Change, and sang on the Chic hit ''Dance, Dance, Dance.''
        He finally signed a contract with Epic Records, which released his 1981 debut, ''Never Too Much,'' which reached the top of the R&B charts and sold more than one million copies, effectively sparking his career as a star. Through the 1980's, he released a string of hit albums, including ''Forever, for Always, for Love,'' ''Busy Body'' and Any Love.''
        Mr. Vandross had become a superstar with black audiences, but he often appeared frustrated about the difficulty of crossing into wider pop stardom.
        ''I didn't buy blond wigs; I didn't walk differently,'' he told one reporter in 1995. ''One of the things I admire most about, let's say, Aretha, is that she got crossover success based on her own terms, own talent, own approach.''
        He did broaden his audience further with the 1991 album ''Power of Love,'' and through the 1990's he performed hit duets with the pop stars Janet Jackson and Mariah Carey.
        Mr. Vandross won a Grammy for best R&B male vocal performance in 1991 for ''Here and Now,'' two in 1992 for co-writing the song ''Power of Love'' and performing on the album of the same name, and another in 1997 for his performance of ''Your Secret Love.''
        The Rev. Jesse Jackson, in a telephone interview last night, described Mr. Vandross as ''a voice of rare vintage.''
        ''In the tradition of Nat Cole, he was a singular male voice,'' Mr. Jackson continued. ''He was an artist who brought a great sense of dignity to his art.''
        Mr. Vandross had long struggled with obesity, hypertension and diabetes. His weight often fluctuated, and he told a television interviewer in 2001: ''I've never been more healthy than I am now. I wish I was this healthy when I was 25.''
        Mr. Vandross is survived by his mother, Mary Ida Vandross.
      