
        Paul Duke, the longtime moderator of the ''Washington Week in Review'' program on public television, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 78.
        The cause was acute leukemia, his family said.
        In 1974 Mr. Duke took the chair at what was then a locally broadcast weekly roundup and analysis of political events, featuring him with a rotating cast of correspondents. By the time he retired in 1994, the Friday night sessions, broadcast on PBS, had become a staple for more than four million viewers of about 300 public television stations.
        He invited more female and minority journalists to appear on the panels. During his tenure the program won an Emmy and a duPont-Columbia Journalism award. He also received a John Chancellor Prize in 1999 for lifetime journalistic excellence from the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania.
        ''Washington Week in Review,'' which was first broadcast on WETA in 1967, is the longest-running public affairs program on PBS.
        Paul Welden Duke was born in Bethlehem, Pa. Growing up in Richmond, Va., he got an announcer's job at a local radio station at 16 and at 19 was doing a nightly sportscast. He worked his way through the University of Richmond, graduating in 1947, and joined the local bureau of The Associated Press.
        His reporting on the civil-rights struggle in Virginia earned him a promotion to the A.P. Washington bureau in 1957. He joined The Wall Street Journal as a Congressional and political correspondent in 1959, and our years later he moved into television news. As a national correspondent for NBC News from 1963 to 1974 Mr. Duke distinguished himself with his reporting on Watergate.
        After his retirement from ''Washington Week,'' he lived in London for a time, occasionally contributing to the program. He filled in as a moderator again in 1999 after returning to this country.
        Mr. Duke is survived by his wife, Janet W. Duke; a son from a previous marriage, Paul F., of Los Angeles; and a grandson. His marriage to Janet Johnston Duke, of Fredericksburg, Va., ended in divorce.
        Correction:  July 30, 2005, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on July 20 about Paul Duke, longtime moderator of the public television program ''Washington Week in Review,'' misstated its broadcast history. By the time Mr. Duke joined the program, in 1974, it was seen nationally. (It began as a local program in 1967.) 1/3 1/3
      