
        Mortimer Levitt, an irrepressible and outspoken patron of the arts who made a fortune selling custom-made shirts to celebrities, business executives, political figures and others who didn't have to ask the price, died on Tuesday at his home in Green's Farms, Conn. He was 98.
        His family announced his death.
        Seizing on the idea that there must be many men with unusual builds like his (small neck, large shoulders) who might want individually tailored shirts, Mr. Levitt built a nationwide haberdashery empire. By 1997, when he sold Custom Shop Shirtmakers to the H.C. Holding Company, which owned Huntington Clothiers, the business had more than 60 branches across the country, mostly in high-end malls, and its top-line shirts sold for $100 or more. The shops closed in 2001.
        Early success in business gave Mr. Levitt the resources to ride in a chauffeur-driven Rolls-Royce, present gala musical events in his homes, write books, shower the world with his opinions and support arts organizations that met his exacting standards, like the Manhattan Theater Club and Young Concert Artists.
        ''He was like Jack Benny -- always pretending to be stingy but really the opposite,'' said Susan Wadsworth, founder and director of Young Concert Artists. For more than a quarter of a century Mr. Levitt served as chairman of the board of that organization, which started the careers of artists like the pianist Emanuel Ax and the violinist Pinchas Zukerman.
        Yet Mr. Levitt's generosity sometimes came with a price. His penchant for micromanaging was well known. In 1973 he founded the Levitt Pavilion for the Performing Arts, a band shell overlooking the Saugatuck River in Westport, and for years bombarded its board with suggestions about everything from what sort of grass should be planted (zoysia) to where the performers should hang their coats (in the storage room).
        But the flow of ideas eventually got to be too much for the pavilion board. In 1996, the 35 overseers fired Mr. Levitt as artistic director -- the job he had been given in gratitude in 1993. Members of the board complained that there had been more than a dozen managing directors since 1981 because of Mr. Levitt's involvement. Some members objected to his insistence that Perry Como recordings be played between classical music sets.
        A series of five books Mr. Levitt wrote beginning at age 75 were as opinionated as his views on how to run an arts pavilion. In ''Class: What It Is and How to Acquire It,'' he unabashedly explained himself with the following words: ''An aptitude for clothes was something I evidently was born with, in the same way that Babe Ruth, Mozart, Chris Evert Lloyd and Charles Chaplin were born with aptitudes that, in their respective cases, made them world-famous.'' In ''The Executive Look: How to Get It, How to Keep It,'' a Book-of-the-Month Club selection, Mr. Levitt argued that men looked their best in well-designed uniforms and formal wear. Hairy legs exposed by short socks, he declared, are ''a real turn-off for all women.'' The book included news photographs of Henry Ford, Sir John Gielgud, Alger Hiss and others whose looks were not improved by small collars, and photographs of Jimmy Carter and Edward I. Koch ''after they both 'got the message' about a collar high enough to cover neck wrinkles.''
        His fourth book, ''How to Start Your Own Business Without Losing Your Shirt: Secrets of 17 Successful Entrepreneurs,'' was a Fortune Magazine Book-of-the-Month Club selection.
        Although his business ventures brought him great wealth, Mr. Levitt said his attention was always focused on ideas rather than on money, and he had a bargain-hunting streak.
        ''I'm totally unable to relate to my wealth,'' he told an interviewer in 1978. ''My eye is always on the angle. It's always a question of working out the best deal. I travel to Europe economy class because I don't see any reason to spend an extra $900 for a six-hour trip.''
        But he would splurge on what he considered important. He gave the Levitt Pavilion $25,000 to get started and $5,000 a year after that for operating expenses. In recent years, he endowed music pavilions in Pasadena, Calif., and Harrisburg, Pa. He was producer of a theater piece called ''The Concept,'' which dramatized the experiences of young people in treatment for drug addiction; it was presented at the White House on three separate occasions. That led to his producing 20 showcase productions at the Manhattan Theater Club, which in turn led to his joining the board of the Film Society of Lincoln Center.
        He is survived by his wife, Mimi; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Los Angeles; and a son, Peter, of New York.
        Mortimer Levitt was born in Brooklyn on Feb. 28, 1907. At 16, he dropped out of high school and began to earn money to support his mother and younger brothers. His first job was as a textile salesman, but he was fired, he recalled later at film society board meetings, for going to movies in the afternoon.
        His need for a new source of income, together with his having heard about a man in the garment district who made custom shirts, led Mr. Levitt to start his own business.
        He resolved to offer the public a better deal than the man in the garment district. His competitor charged only $1.25 per shirt but made the customer provide his own fabric. Mr. Levitt was convinced that people who could afford a custom shirt would not wish to lug around a bolt of fabric, and therefore charged $2.15 for both fabric and tailoring.
        The first Custom Shop was opened in 1937 on Broadway near 36th Street. It had $100,000 in sales in its first year. Four years later, Mr. Levitt owned nine shops and was a millionaire.
        Correction:  July 21, 2005, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Mortimer Levitt, an arts patron and a haberdasher, described incompletely the fate of his business, Custom Shop Shirtmakers, which he sold in 1997. After the company changed hands several times, it was purchased in 2001 by Michael Smith and renamed Custom Shop Clothiers. It did not go out of business.
      