
        The Rev. George E. Calvert, a minister who became a pioneer in efforts to revitalize East Harlem by providing low-cost housing, died on July 17 at his home in Andes, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Elizabeth Calvert, said.
        He was one of the founders of Hope Community Inc., which has turned dozens of abandoned or damaged buildings into sound housing for low-income New Yorkers. The organization, which now owns about 70 buildings with almost 1,200 rental units, also helps build and maintain public spaces and sponsors community events.
        Mr. Calvert moved to East Harlem in 1954 and became pastor of East Harlem Protestant Parish, and later of an independent church, Church of the Living Hope on East 104th Street, now affiliated with the United Church of Christ.
        He saw that one of the biggest problems facing his parishioners was lack of adequate, safe housing. Motivated by the belief that solving this problem would help overcome the poverty, rampant crime and dilapidation that plagued the community at the time, he and other leaders founded Hope Community, a nonprofit community development organization, in 1968.
        ''He was a pioneer in community involvement in housing,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, whose district includes East Harlem.
        At first an all-volunteer organization, Hope Community relied on private contributions to buy buildings to turn into housing for low-income families. Additional money and new properties were later obtained through government agencies and programs. Along with the revenue from rental units, these grants allowed the organization to obtain more property.
        Mr. Calvert got residents involved ''not just rebuilding the physical bricks-and-mortar stuff, but also as a means of rebuilding the community,'' a colleague, the Rev. Earl Coopercamp, said.
        George Edward Calvert was born in 1928 in Evanston, Ill., and grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y. He obtained a bachelor's degree in history from Amherst College in 1950, and a master's of divinity from Union Theological Seminary in 1954. He earned a master's degree in education from City College of the City University of New York in 1966 and taught at a local junior high school. After retiring from his various positions, Mr. Calvert moved in 1997 to Andes, where he continued to work on housing issues and in community groups.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Calvert is survived by a brother, Robert, of Garrett Park, Md.; four sons: David, of Mexico City; Jonathan, of Clinton Hill in Brooklyn; Peter, of Richmond, Va.; and James, of Atlanta; and nine grandchildren. A daughter, Carol, died in 1965.
      