
        Franz Weissmann, one of Brazil's most prominent Modernist sculptors and the last surviving member of the Neo-Concrete movement of the early 1960's, died at his home in Rio de Janeiro on July 18. He was 93.
        His death was reported by The Associated Press.
        Like many ambitious Brazilian artists in the 1950's, Mr. Weissmann was decisively influenced by the art of the Swiss painter and sculptor Max Bill, who won the first prize for sculpture at the first São Paulo Biennial in 1951. Bill was a member of the Zurich Concrete group, and his belief in a type of strictly nonrepresentational abstraction derived from the Dutch De Stijl movement inspired a Brazilian Concrete movement.
        Along with other Concretists, Mr. Weissmann formed a short-lived collective called the Frente group in the 1950's. Near the end of the decade, he and artists like Lygia Clark, Lygia Pape and Hélio Oiticica founded the Neo-Concrete group, which favored expanding and loosening up the principals of Concretism to create more complexity and movement and to promote more intimate participation for viewers.
        The Neo-Concretists disbanded after only two years, but their influence on Brazilian avant-gardist art forms resonated for decades. Mr. Weissmann's own sculptures consisted of intricately folded and intersecting planes of metal that encouraged viewers to walk around them to see them from different angles.
        In the 70's he produced many large-scale and brightly colored works for major museums and public plazas in Brazil.
        Franz Joseph Weissmann was born in Knittelfeld, Austria, in 1911. He moved with his family to São Paulo in 1924 and to Rio de Janeiro in 1934, where he took courses in fine art and architecture at the National University's School of Fine Arts.
        From 1942 to 1944 he studied privately with the Polish sculptor August Zamoyski, who was living in Brazil. Mr. Weissmann moved to Belo Horizonte in 1948 and in the mid-50's helped found that city's first school of modern art. In 1956 he became a naturalized citizen of Brazil.
        After a sojourn in Paris from 1961 to 1965, he returned to Rio de Janeiro, where he lived for the rest of his life. Mr. Weissmann's work was seen in New York most recently in 2001 in the giant, 400-year survey of Brazilian art at the Guggenheim Museum, ''Brazil: Body and Soul.''
        Mr. Weissmann is survived by a daughter, Waltraud, and a son, Manfrid.
      