
        George Crews McGhee, a geophysicist who struck it rich in oil and became a top-ranking State Department troubleshooter and ambassador to West Germany in the cold war era, died on July 4 in Leesburg, Va. He was 93 and lived on his farm in Middleburg, Va.
        His death was announced by his family.
        Ambassador McGhee was also a writer, an arborist by avocation and a noted collector of antiques.
        He retired as ambassador at large in 1969.
        Ambassador McGhee was born in Waco, Tex., and worked his way through the University of Oklahoma, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1933. He started as a geophysicist in the oil industry and in 1934 earned a Rhodes scholarship, and spent three years at Queens College, Oxford, receiving a doctorate in 1937.
        He led a small prospecting group that found new wells in Louisiana and became a millionaire before he turned 30. Ambassador McGhee enlisted in the Navy and was commissioned to become its liaison to the bomber command headed by Gen. Curtis E. LeMay in World War II. He returned from the Marianas with three battle stars and the Legion of Merit.
        Ambassador McGhee joined the State Department after the war. In 1947, President Harry S. Truman named him coordinator for aid to Greece and Turkey. He played a crucial part in the postwar American effort to shore up the economies and governments of those countries and to keep them on the Western side of the Iron Curtain.
        In 1949 he became assistant secretary for Near Eastern, South Asian and African Affairs. He toured widely for the Point Four program and other Western development projects, and through his diplomatic and business connections helped establish links between the United States and the oil producers of the Middle East, particularly Saudi Arabia.
        With the arrival of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's administration, Ambassador McGhee returned to the oil business but was recalled as a consultant to the National Security Council and as a member of the president's commission on the military assistance program.
        President John F. Kennedy appointed him counselor to the State Department and head of its policy planning council. During the Cuban missile crisis he was under secretary for political affairs, the No. 3 job in the department.
        His next assignment in 1963 took him to Bonn as ambassador to the Federal Republic of West Germany, assigned to help keep the NATO alliance together while the United States was at war in Indochina. He remained until 1968 and described the experience in his best-known book, ''At the Creation of a New Germany: From Adenauer to Brandt: An Ambassador's Account'' (1989).
        His other books include ''On the Frontline in the Cold War: An Ambassador Reports'' (1997), and a memoir, ''I Did It This Way: From Texas and Oil to Oxford, Diplomacy, and Corporate Boards'' (2001).
        Ambassador McGhee's wife, Cecilia DeGolyer McGhee, died in 2002 after 63 years of marriage. He is survived by three daughters, Marcia Carter and Dorothy McGhee of Washington, and Bebek McGhee of Bodega Bay, Calif.; a son, George D., of Middleburg; five grandchildren; and two great-grandsons.
      