
        Sir Edward Heath, who as prime minister took Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973 and for decades was the Conservative Party's leading advocate of European unity, died yesterday at his home in Salisbury, his spokesman said. He was 89 and had retired from the House of Commons in 2001, after 51 years in Parliament.
        Britain's admission to what is now called the European Union was the high point of his time as prime minister, from 1970 to 1974, and the fulfillment of an ambition frustrated a decade earlier. Then, as a junior minister, he negotiated terms for Britain's entry, only to see it vetoed in 1963 by de Gaulle.
        His commitment to Europe made Sir Edward, who was knighted in 1992, unpopular with some factions in an island country that has never been entirely sure about its place among the Continentals. For decades he was not on speaking terms with his fellow Conservative Margaret Thatcher, who ousted him as the party's leader in Parliament in 1975, and was a fierce critic of closer European political unity when she was prime minister, from 1979 to 1990.
        Baroness Thatcher, as she later became, was the heroine of the party's so-called Euroskeptic wing, and Sir Edward its chief scapegoat.
        A lifelong bachelor, he brooded in later years in the solitude of Arundells, the magnificent home he bought beside Salisbury Cathedral, sallying forth periodically to joust against Rule Britannia die-hards at party conferences, returning to sulk after enduring jeers.
        When he was asked in 1990 whether it was possible that Mrs. Thatcher might have done a few good things as prime minister, his reaction was as startling as a lightning strike on the cathedral spire across the green. ''Name one!'' he roared, in the gravelly bass baritone that was as much a trademark as his bright blue eyes and his thatch of white hair.
        He contended that her hostility to Europe was an important reason she was forced to resign as prime minister in 1990 after a party leadership conference. He also held the party's increasingly anti-European stance responsible for the its overwhelming defeat in the election of 1997, when the Labor Party under Tony Blair ended an 18-year Conservative winning streak.
        Sir Edward, a trained organist and pianist, was often self-absorbed, seeking consolation in his hobbies, music and sailing. As prime minister and later, he fulfilled a youthful ambition and became a conductor, directing the London Symphony Orchestra in Elgar's ''Cockaigne'' Overture in 1971, the first of many such concerts with the symphony and other orchestras around the world.
        Did the organ and conducting give him a sense of power? '''Yes' is the answer,'' he wrote in ''Music: A Joy for Life'' (Pavilion Books Ltd., 1997), ''but not of power over people: it is the power of contributing sound to the general uplift of those making music together.''
        A Gentleman's Education
        Edward Richard George Heath was born during a German air raid on July 9, 1916, in St. Peter's-in-Thanet, a village in Broadstairs, a small coastal resort in Kent, on the southeastern coast, where his working-class family had its roots.
        His father, William George Heath, was a carpenter who eventually ran his own building firm; his mother, Edith Anne Pantony Heath, worked as a maid before she gave birth to Edward and his younger brother, John, who died in 1983.
        His parents sent Edward to the local Church of England primary school and made considerable financial sacrifice to buy him an upright piano for lessons. Later, he joined the choir of St. Peter's parish church as a boy soprano and took lessons on the pipe organ from the organist.
        After his graduation from the nearby Chatham House Grammar School in 1935, he was accepted at Balliol College, Oxford, where, as he put it, ''the sons of wealthy parents mingled with those of us living on scholarships or loans.'' His own financial situation eased when in his first year he won Balliol's organ scholarship, which brought in £80 a year for playing at chapel services.
        Introduction to Political Life
        He also became president of the Oxford Union, a debating society that has spawned scores of leading British politicians, and signed up with Oxford's Conservative Party association, attracted by the likes of Winston Churchill, Anthony Eden and Harold Macmillan.
        ''For me, these were the true Conservatives: compassionate men who believed in opportunity and a decent standard of living for all,'' he wrote in his autobiography, ''The Course of My Life'' (Hodder & Stoughton, 1998). ''I continued to believe in fairness and deplored the snobbishness of many Conservatives, as well as the envy and hatred of the party, which were the consequence of it.''
        He received his degree in philosophy, politics and economics in 1939 and prepared to study law, taking a trip that summer to Danzig (now Gdansk, Poland). He barely made it back to Britain before the Germans attacked Poland and started World War II.
        At home he signed up for the Royal Artillery, landing as adjutant of his regiment in Normandy in early July 1944 and fighting with it into Germany, where at war's end he held the rank of colonel.
        Reflecting half a century later on his return to Britain in 1946, he wrote: ''My generation did not have the option of living in the past; we had to work for the future. We were surrounded by destruction, homelessness, hunger and despair. Only by working together right across our continent had we any hope of creating a society which would uphold the true values of European civilization.''
        He joined the civil service in the Ministry of Civil Aviation but resigned in 1947 after persuading the Conservative organization in Bexley, Kent, on the southeast edge of London, to select him as its candidate for the next parliamentary elections.
        In the 1950 election, he squeaked in with a majority of only 133 seats, joining the Conservative opposition in the House of Commons. There he used his maiden speech to urge British support for the Schuman Plan, one of the earliest postwar moves toward European unity.
        After a new election put Churchill back into 10 Downing Street in 1951, Mr. Heath spent the next eight years in the whip's office, keeping the Conservative majority in line through such strains as the French-British debacle at the Suez Canal in 1956.
        After Macmillan succeeded Churchill as prime minister, he made Mr. Heath minister of labor in 1959 and, the next year, Lord Privy Seal at the Foreign Office. His new job there was to negotiate for Britain's accession to the European Community, which France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg had formed in 1957.
        Frustrated by a French Veto
        Britain had opted then to develop a European Free Trade Area outside the European Community. ''Throughout the 1950's,'' Sir Edward wrote, ''there was never a true understanding in Britain of the depth of the commitment to unity among our Continental neighbors.''
        Now there was a second chance, though there were also concerns by members of the Commonwealth like India, Australia, New Zealand and Canada about access to Continental markets for their agricultural goods if Britain joined, and difficulties over the cost of the Community's subsidies for farmers, which France had insisted upon.
        Negotiations with the Europeans took most of 1961 and 1962, and in January 1963, in a final meeting, Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Murville of France told Mr. Heath, ''No power on earth can now prevent these negotiations from being successful.''
        But de Gaulle could, and did. That Jan. 14, criticizing Britain's ''special political and military relations'' with the United States, the French president said that Britain's entry would result in ''a colossal Atlantic Community, dependent on America and directed by America,'' and that France would veto it.
        ''We are a part of Europe, by geography, history, culture, tradition and civilization,'' Mr. Heath said after the failure of negotiations. ''I say to my colleagues: they should have no fear. We in Britain are not going to turn our backs on the mainland of Europe or the countries of the Community.''
        Elections in 1964 put the Conservatives into opposition again, sidelining Mr. Heath during Harold Wilson's Labor government, but in 1965 Mr. Heath ran for the Conservative leadership and won.
        ''I had decided to give up golf, because I found that as my political career progressed, it became inevitable that people on the links would insist resolutely upon talking politics all the time,'' he wrote later, so he took up sailing.
        Years later almost everybody in Britain had heard of his yacht, Morning Cloud, and the satirical journal Private Eye needed only to mention ''Sailor Ted'' for readers to understand that Mr. Heath was the target.
        Mr. Heath supported Wilson's decision, strongly backed by public opinion, to reapply to the European Common Market, but de Gaulle vetoed Britain's accession again in 1967.
        Mr. Heath's chance to try again came after he led his own party to election victory in 1970. The new prime minister's cabinet included Mrs. Thatcher, as education secretary, and its first difficulties included struggling with militant labor unions that had crucial elements of the British economy, especially coal, in their grip.
        But among the first things the cabinet did was to reopen talks with the Europeans, even though, as Sir Edward later wrote, ''the six had reached an agreement on the Community budget in April 1970 and, under this system, the U.K. would inevitably be a large net contributor to the budget after accession.''
        By now a new French leader was in power, Georges Pompidou. After several weekend visits between Mr. Pompidou and Mr. Heath, Mr. Pompidou announced in May 1971 that both countries were determined this time to get Britain in.
        A month later the negotiations finally succeeded, though it required Britain to pay 19 percent of the Community budget within five years after joining, a provision Mrs. Thatcher would later renegotiate as prime minister, saying, ''I want my money back.''
        At the signing ceremony in January 1972 in Brussels, a woman in the crowd threw a pot of ink at Mr. Heath's head and ruined his suit. With some delay to change clothes, and with Jean Monnet and Paul-Henri Spaak, two of the fathers of the European Community, at his side, Mr. Heath signed the treaty of accession with a flourish, and Britain became a member on Jan. 1, 1973.
        Ulster, and Economic Woes
        Things were going less well at home.
        Rising violence in Northern Ireland turned to crisis after the Heath government decided in 1971 to arrest hundreds of suspected members of the outlawed Irish Republican Army. After British troops killed 14 people, most of them Roman Catholics, in a protest march in Londonderry the following January, Britain took over direct rule of Northern Ireland.
        In addition, increasing conflict among British industries, the government and militant labor unions weakened the economy, the pound and Mr. Heath's ability to govern.
        After the National Union of Miners voted to shut down the coal industry in early 1974 unless its members got a huge pay raise, he called a new election. The voters gave Labor a narrow victory in the election in 1974.
        Other personal setbacks followed. His yacht sank in a gale later that year, drowning a crewman. The Conservatives lost again in the second 1974 election in October, though Mr. Heath kept his seat in Bexley. But in February 1975, Mrs. Thatcher challenged him for the Tory leadership in Parliament, and to his irritated surprise, she ousted him.
        He survived two assassination attempts by the I.R.A. after leaving Downing Street, once in December 1974 when his home in London was bombed in his absence, and again in November 1975, when a bomb was planted under his car. It came loose and did not explode when he drove away quickly to avoid being late for a dinner, as he found out when he came home to find his street blocked off by emergency vehicles.
        After Britain's ''Winter of Discontent'' -- the period of strikes, power shortages, high inflation and rising unemployment in the 1970's when Labor was in power -- Mrs. Thatcher led the Conservatives back to power. But she snubbed Mr. Heath for a cabinet position.
        He disagreed publicly with her ''monetarist'' economic policies, and by 1985 was voicing doubts about her plans to sell state-owned assets and use the receipts to finance tax cuts. ''Casino capitalism,'' he called it.
        A Longtime Rival
        Most of all, he fought Mrs. Thatcher's steadily rising objections to closer European unity. ''It became apparent that Mrs. Thatcher wanted to convert the Community into nothing more than a market, a trading center lacking the other facilities and institutions of a common enterprise,'' he said in 1988 after she warned in a speech in Bruges, Belgium, against ''a European super state exercising a new dominance from Brussels.''
        ''In the eyes of the public, I was the man most associated with Europe and I could not stand back and watch history, and my own record, being grossly misrepresented,'' he wrote.
        He also criticized his successors for trying to fall back on close relations with the United States as an alternative to closer ties with Europe.
        ''We cannot behave like an adjunct of the United States and simultaneously carry out our responsibilities as a member of the European Union,'' he wrote. ''If we are to influence the United States, we must do so as one Community, through an agreed policy thrashed out between all the member states. Until we accept these facts and behave accordingly we shall always be regarded with suspicion by our European partners.''
        Views like these made him a favorite target of Euroskeptics like Sir James Goldsmith, a British expatriate in France whose Referendum Party tried to defeat him in 1997, failing to unseat him from Bexley.
        His music-making kept him as much in the public eye as his political views did, particularly the annual Christmas carol concerts he conducted in Broadstairs for 40 years. On one foreign conducting tour, to St. Petersburg, Russia, in 1991, he recalled going to a restaurant after the concert and finding a stale-sounding dance band boring the assembled diners.
        ''When they finished one particularly dreary piece, I strolled over to the bandleader and asked him if he had the 'Tiger Rag,''' he wrote. He then took over the baton. ''As we played, people got up and started dancing. They liked it so much we had to play it twice.''
        His 80th birthday party, in July 1996, was a musical feast at 10 Downing Street, with Mstislav Rostropovich, Yehudi Menuhin and the pianist Ivo Pogorelich among the musicians, and the queen in attendance.
        Asked in 1998 what conducting had meant to him over his life, Sir Edward made conducting sound a little like running a government. ''You have to get a performance out of a hundred people,'' he said.
        Correction:  July 19, 2005, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Edward Heath, who as prime minister took Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973, referred incorrectly to his election to the House of Commons in 1950. He won by 133 votes, not 133 seats.
        Correction:  July 21, 2005, Thursday  An obituary on Monday of the former British Prime Minister Edward Heath misidentified the prime minister who succeeded Winston Churchill in 1955. It was Sir Anthony Eden, not Harold Macmillan.
      