
        William J. Brink, a former managing editor of The Daily News of New York who was responsible for one of the most memorable headlines in American journalism, FORD TO CITY: DROP DEAD, died yesterday morning in Norwalk, Conn. He was 89 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son William A. Brink said.
        Set in huge bold letters, the headline screamed across Page 1 of the paper on Oct. 30, 1975. In six taut syllables, it brought home its message with the power of a knockout punch: At the height of New York's fiscal crisis, President Gerald R. Ford had declined to bail the city out.
        Those six syllables, as Mr. Ford later acknowledged, almost certainly lost him New York State in his 1976 race against Jimmy Carter, and with it, the presidency.
        At The News, as at most papers, Page 1 headlines can be collaborative efforts by several editors. But Mr. Brink is generally credited with coming up with this one, after rejecting preliminary candidates like FORD REFUSES AID TO CITY and FORD SAYS NO TO CITY AID.
        William Joseph Brink Jr. was born in Indianapolis on Feb. 29, 1916, and raised in Cincinnati. He received a bachelor's degree in journalism from Indiana University and served in the Army Air Corps in Italy and North Africa during World War II.
        Mr. Brink began his journalism career at The Indianapolis Star. (The paper later fired him for union activity, his son said, giving as its official reason that Mr. Brink wrote poor headlines.) He was later a reporter for United Press, where he met his wife, the former Jenny Lou Dwyer, also a journalist there.
        From 1956 to 1970, Mr. Brink was a senior editor at Newsweek. He joined The Daily News in 1970, becoming managing editor four years later. He retired in 1981.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Brink is survived by a brother, Paul, of Indianapolis; four sons -- Timothy, of Asbury, N.J.; John, of Edmonton, Alberta; William A., the editor for continuous news at The New York Times; and Robert, of Coudersport, Pa. -- and seven grandchildren.
        Displayed on the three major television networks and reproduced in newspapers around the world, Mr. Brink's headline has endured in the national memory for almost 30 years.
        The corresponding headline in The New York Times that day, FORD, CASTIGATING CITY, ASSERTS HE'D VETO FUND GUARANTEE; OFFERS BANKRUPTCY BILL, remains unsung.
      