
        Piero Cappuccilli, considered one of the finest Italian baritones of his generation, died on July12 in Trieste, Italy. He was 75.
        His death was reported by the newspaper Il Piccolo di Trieste, which said he had been in fragile health since a car accident in 1992.
        Though Mr. Cappuccilli never achieved international stardom, he was enormously admired within the field of opera for his rich and abundant voice, fine vocal technique and exceptional breath control. In the great Italian tradition he fused words and music into elegant phrases. He focused on Italian repertory, particularly the operas of Verdi, singing 17 major roles.
        Some critics found his full-voiced singing blunt and burly. And in striving for expressive restraint, he could sometimes come across as stiff. But at his best, with his handsome physique and vocal authority, he made a powerful impact onstage.
        In 1960, just three years into his professional career, he was tapped by the producer Walter Legge to sing the role of Enrico in a recording of Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' starring Maria Callas and conducted by Tullio Serafin. That EMI work remains a classic. In the mid-1970's the conductor Claudio Abbado chose him for the title roles in Verdi's ''Simon Boccanegra'' and ''Macbeth'' at La Scala in Milan. These productions led to studio recordings that remain prized by opera buffs.
        Born in Trieste, Mr. Cappuccilli's first exposure to opera came at 10, when he was recruited for the children's chorus of a production of ''Carmen'' in Naples, where his family was vacationing. The experience was not defining. Mr. Cappuccilli pursued a career in architecture.
        But after friends convinced him that he had an exceptional voice, he began lessons in Trieste. He made his debut in 1957 at the Teatro Nuovo in Milan, singing Tonio in ''Pagliacci.'' In 1960 he made his debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing Germont in Verdi's ''Traviata.'' That single performance was his only appearance at the Met. In later years he gave recitals in New York and performed several times with the Opera Orchestra of New York during the 1980's; he also made notable appearances with Lyric Opera of Chicago. Over all, though, Mr. Cappuccilli preferred to sing in Europe. He enjoyed a rewarding relationship with Covent Garden in London, making his debut there in 1967 in ''La Traviata.''
        For most of his life he made Trieste his home. There he kept a speedboat and enjoyed deep-sea fishing and diving.
        He is survived by his wife, Graziella; three children, Patrizia, Giovanni and Pier Paolo; and two grandchildren, according to the Trieste newspaper.
      