
        L. Patrick Gray III, the former acting director of the F.B.I. whose misplaced trust in Richard M. Nixon and early missteps in handling the Watergate investigation made him a lasting victim of a scandal he ultimately helped to expose, died yesterday at his home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        In his Senate confirmation hearings in 1973, Mr. Gray volunteered what amounted to the most dramatic public indication to that point that the president's men were covering up the Watergate break-in, when he disclosed that he had supplied the F.B.I.'s files on the investigation to the White House counsel, John W. Dean III, from the outset of the inquiry.
        That revelation rocked Washington and spurred Senate investigators to dig deeper. It also led Nixon's aide John D. Ehrlichman to propose, in one of the era's most famous phrases, letting Mr. Gray ''twist slowly, slowly in the wind'' until he resigned a few weeks later. He endured his fate in stoic silence for more than 30 years, in which he was often portrayed as a feckless footnote to the greatest political scandal of the age.
        But last month, after his former deputy, W. Mark Felt, acknowledged that he had been Deep Throat, the Washington Post's secret Watergate source, Mr. Gray at last spoke out about his profound betrayal and bitterness when he began to realize that the president he sought to serve so loyally was corrupt -- feelings compounded by the belated realization that his own No.2 man did not trust him to pursue the case, and was undermining him.
        ''I made the gravest mistake of my 88 years'' in going to work for Nixon, Mr. Gray told George Stephanopoulos of ABC News, adding that he never again spoke to Nixon after Watergate and repeatedly returned books the former president sent him in later life. ''I put the rudder in the wrong direction.''
        Mr. Gray was a paradox, a Navy submarine commander and punctilious private lawyer whose adherence to the chain of command was so ingrained that he briefly held up the F.B.I.'s inquiry into the break-in at Democratic National Committee headquarters in June 1972, when the White House concocted what turned out to be a bogus warning that pursuing the investigation could compromise C.I.A. activities in Mexico.
        On orders from the White House, he also destroyed forged documents from the White House safe of one of the Watergate conspirators, E. Howard Hunt, that had been created for use as Republican dirty tricks against the Kennedys.
        As Watergate unfolded, Mr. Gray was faulted as failing to grasp the implications of the scandal. But the record shows that as early as July 1972, just weeks after the Watergate break-in, he grew so concerned that the White House was improperly using the C.I.A. to warn the F.B.I. away from the investigation, that he warned Nixon ''that people on your staff are trying to mortally wound you.''
        Indeed, it was just such a scheme to use the C.I.A., concocted with Nixon's support, that lay at the heart of the Watergate cover-up, eventually detailed on the so-called ''smoking gun'' Oval Office tape recording that forced the president's resignation. But Mr. Gray did not know that at the time, and Nixon simply told him to ''continue to conduct your aggressive and thorough investigation.''
        The F.B.I. ultimately did so, amassing evidence of the Watergate money trail and conspiracy that led to the indictment of many of the president's aides.
        Mr. Gray himself was never charged with any Watergate-related crime. He told ABC last month that he had shared F.B.I. files with the White House only with the approval of the bureau's general counsel, and had been fully aware that his disclosure that he had done so would ''shake up all the candles in the church.''
        It was Mr. Gray's destruction of the papers from Mr. Hunt's safe -- bogus diplomatic cables that implicated President John F. Kennedy in the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam, and a dossier on Senator Edward M. Kennedy's peccadilloes -- that may have most damaged his reputation. He acknowledged burning them with his Christmas trash in 1972, about five months after Mr. Ehrlichman and Mr. Dean gave them to him with the warning that they were ''political dynamite'' and should never see the light of day.
        Mr. Gray told investigators at the time that he had destroyed the papers because they were not Watergate-related. Last month, he said he believed he had direct orders from presidential aides and no inkling ''that these guys are trying to sandbag me,'' adding, ''I know it's hard for people to think somebody could be so stupid, but I believed them.''
        Mr. Gray had been named acting director on the death of J. Edgar Hoover, just weeks before the Watergate break-in. A straight arrow who neither smoked nor drank, he nevertheless amounted to a breath of fresh air in an F.B.I. that had been dominated for more than 40 years by the iron-willed Hoover. He hired the first female agents, relaxed the rigid dress code and grooming standards that had required agents to wear hats, black shoes and short sideburns, and built morale by visiting field offices around the country.
        In the process, however, he infuriated many in the bureau's old guard, including Mr. Felt, who believed he himself should have succeeded Hoover.
        Louis Patrick Gray III was born July 18, 1916, the eldest son of a railroad man in St. Louis. He attended Rice Institute and later won a scholarship to the United States Naval Academy, eventually leading the submarine Steelhead on five combat patrols in the Pacific during World War II. After the war, the Navy sent him to George Washington University law school in Washington, where he first met Nixon, then a freshman congressman from California.
        He married the former Beatrice Kirk De Garmo, the widow of an Annapolis classmate killed in action over Okinawa. She survives him, as do the two sons from her first marriage whom he adopted and raised as his own, Alan K. Gray of New York, and Edward E. Gray of Lyme, N.H.; two other sons, Patrick E. Gray of Alpharetta, Ga., and Stephen D. Gray of Grantham, N.H.; 14 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        During the Korean War, Mr. Gray again served as a submarine skipper, and he worked in various Navy commands throughout the 1950's, retiring in 1960 to work as a staff member for Nixon, then the vice president and the Republican nominee for president. After Nixon's defeat that fall, Mr. Gray began practicing law in New London, Conn., with the firm that became Suisman, Shapiro, Wool, Brennan, Gray & Greenberg.
        Upon Nixon's election as president in 1968, Mr. Gray became executive assistant to the secretary of health, education and welfare. Nixon later made him assistant attorney general in charge of the civil division and nominated him to be deputy attorney general, before appointing him to the F.B.I. job in May 1972.
        In 1978, Mr. Gray was indicted, along with Mr. Felt and another senior F.B.I. official, Edward S. Miller, on charges of conspiring to violate the constitutional rights of American citizens by authorizing federal agents to break into homes without warrants, in a hunt for fugitive members of the radical Weather Underground. The case amounted to a posthumous prosecution of the excesses of the Hoover era, and the charges against Mr. Gray were dropped in 1980.
        ''To be indicted wrongly brings down upon one an overwhelming sense of despair and helplessness, accompanied by a grim determination to right the wrong that has been done,'' he said at the time.
        In the ABC interview this year, Mr. Gray said he had had to cash in all his insurance policies, sell his house in Stonington, Conn., and liquidate his stock portfolio to pay his legal bills. He returned to a quiet law practice as Louis P. Gray.
        He made no public statements, but meticulously annotated books and memoirs about the era, haunted by what he called in the ABC interview ''the days and nights of revisiting this particular episode in our history.'' His family now plans to publish a book intended to correct public misimpressions that he was somehow complicit in Watergate.
        ''At no time did I feel I was dealing with individuals who were trying to sweep me into the very conspiracy that I was charged with investigating,'' Mr. Gray testified to the Senate Watergate committee in August 1973. ''That's a madman's horror.''
        ''In the service of my country,'' he added, ''I withstood hours and hours of depth charging, shelling, bombing, but I never expected to run into a Watergate in the service of a president of the United States. And I ran into a buzz saw, obviously.''
      