
        A. William Holmberg Jr., a newspaper executive and civic leader who was chief business officer of The Chattanooga Times from 1970 until the paper's sale in 1999, died yesterday at a hospital in Chattanooga, Tenn. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of pulmonary disease, the family said.
        Mr. Holmberg's early career was with The New York Times, where he served as circulation manager and as general manager of its Western edition.
        In 1969, he went to Chattanooga as an adviser to The Chattanooga Times, and in 1970 became the executive in charge of the paper's business side, including production, advertising and circulation. When The Times and The Chattanooga News-Free Press established a joint operating agreement in 1980, he became The Times's principal representative in that business arrangement.
        Mr. Holmberg and Ruth Sulzberger Golden, the newspaper's publisher, married in 1972. Mrs. Holmberg is a granddaughter of Adolph S. Ochs, who acquired The Chattanooga Times in 1878 and whose descendants owned it until the sale. Ochs bought The New York Times in 1896, and controlling shares of The New York Times Company remain with the family.
        Over the years, Mr. Holmberg served numerous Chattanooga civic organizations. He was president of the Convention and Visitors Bureau, president of the Chattanooga Symphony Association, chairman of the Baroness Foundation of Erlanger Medical Center, a board member of Allied Arts of Greater Chattanooga and the Tennessee River Gorge Trust, and a charter board member of the Tennessee Aquarium.
        Albert William Holmberg Jr. was born on Sept. 18, 1923, in Orange, N.J. He served as a first lieutenant in the Army Air Forces during World War II and graduated from Lehigh University in 1947.
        Survivors include not only his wife but also three daughters by a previous marriage, Jeanne Johnson, Meg Duckworth and Elin Holmberg-Rowland; four stepchildren, Lynn G. Dolnick; Stephen Golden; Michael Golden, vice chairman of The New York Times Company and publisher of The International Herald Tribune; and Arthur Golden, author of the novel ''Memoirs of a Geisha''; six grandchildren; seven stepgrandchildren; and a sister, Jean Sutherland.
      