
        Alberto Lattuada, a highly regarded Italian filmmaker of the postwar years who was also known for giving a young screenwriter named Federico Fellini his first directing job, died on July 3 at his home outside Rome. He was 90.
        Rome city officials announced the death to The Associated Press.
        Originally trained as an architect and writer, Mr. Lattuada defied easy categorization as a director. His films included literary adaptations like ''Il Cappotto'' (''The Overcoat,'' 1952), based on the Gogol story; neorealist dramas like ''Il Bandito'' (''The Bandit,'' 1946), about a released prisoner of war who turns to crime; and melodramas like ''Senza Pietà'' (''Without Pity,'' 1948), about an interracial relationship.
        But despite their thematic variety, most of Mr. Lattuada's films were ultimately social commentaries on contemporary Italian mores, with particular attention paid to sexual peccadilloes. (Besides Mr. Fellini, he was credited with discovering several very young actresses, among them Nastassja Kinski.)
        Alberto Lattuada was born in Milan in 1914. His father, Felice, was a well-known composer who would later write the scores of several of his son's films. As a young man, Alberto helped found what became the Cineteca Italiana, Italy's national film archive. An ardent anti-Fascist, he screened banned movies, among them ''La Grande Illusion'' (1937), an antiwar film by Jean Renoir, on the eve of Italy's entrance into World War II.
        Mr. Lattuada began his cinematic career as a screenwriter and assistant director. He made his directorial debut in 1943, with ''Giacomo l'Idealista'' (''Giacomo the Idealist), the story of a woman raped by a nobleman. But because of his political activity, he was compelled to go into hiding for the rest of the war and did not make another film until 1945.
        In 1950, Mr. Lattuada hired Mr. Fellini, who had scripted several of his films, to share the direction of ''Luci del Varietà'' (''Variety Lights''), about itinerant vaudevillians. Mr. Lattuada's other films include ''Anna'' (1951), starring Anna Magnani as a sultry nightclub singer who becomes a nun; ''La Spiaggia'' (''The Beach,'' 1954), about a good-natured prostitute on vacation; and ''Così Come Sei (''Stay As You Are,'' 1978), about a middle-aged bounder (Marcello Mastroianni) who begins a heated affair with a young woman (Ms. Kinski) despite the fact that she may be his daughter.
        In later years, Mr. Lattuada turned to more commercial projects, among them ''Christopher Columbus,'' a television miniseries broadcast in the United States in 1985.
        Mr. Lattuada is survived by his wife, the actress Carla Del Poggio, and their two sons, The Guardian of London reported.
        Correction:  August 4, 2005, Thursday  An obituary of the Italian filmmaker Alberto Lattuada on July 16 misidentified the actress who starred in his 1951 film ''Anna.'' She was Silvana Mangano, not Anna Magnani.
      