
        Christopher Fry, the British playwright who created memorable parts for John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier and Edith Evans, gave Richard Burton his first role on Broadway, and was primarily responsible for the script of ''Ben-Hur,'' among other films, died on Thursday in Chichester, England. He was 97.
        His death was announced by his son, Tam.
        Mr. Fry will mainly be remembered as the most gifted of the writers who were impelled by the example of T.S. Eliot to attempt a revival of verse-drama in the verbally arid theater of the 1940's and 1950's. Although his reputation declined after the arrival of John Osborne and the ''kitchen-sink'' realists in 1956, his best-known play, ''The Lady's Not for Burning'' continues to be produced regularly.
        There was a time when Mr. Fry was a major force in the British theater. Five of his major dramas, plus his translation of a Jean Anouilh play, achieved critical and public success in the five years beginning in 1946. But Mr. Fry's intentions were more spiritual in nature. His plays radiated an optimistic faith in God and humanity, evoking, in his words, ''a world in which we are poised on the edge of eternity, a world which has deeps and shadows of mystery, and God is anything but a sleeping partner.'' He said he wrote his plays in poetry because that was ''the language in which man expresses his own amazement'' at the complexity both of himself and of a reality which, beneath the surface, was ''wildly, perilously, inexplicably fantastic.''
        Christopher Fry Harris was born in Bristol, England, on Dec. 18, 1907, the son of Charles John Harris, a master builder who became a full-time lay preacher in the Church of England, and the former Emma Marguerite Fry Hammond. When he was 4, his father died, and two years later his mother moved to Bedford, where she and her sister took in lodgers to help pay for schooling.
        While still young, Christopher changed his last name to that of his maternal grandmother, who was thought, on what the dramatist later admitted to be ''slight evidence,'' to be related to the family that produced the Victorian prison reformer Elizabeth Fry. Whatever the truth, Christopher eventually espoused the Fry clan's Quaker faith and became a lifelong pacifist.
        He attended the Bedford Modern School, where he developed an intense interest in the theater and wrote what he later called ''useless, untutored stuff,'' including a play called ''Armageddon,'' about refugees from a devastated world surviving on a remote island. ''Armageddon'' reflected his experience of World War I, which consisted of watching scores of gun carriages bearing dead men file past his house to the local cemetery. This memory was to have some impact on several of his plays, notably ''A Sleep of Prisoners,'' in which captured soldiers have dreams that vividly embody questions about the morality of violence.
        Mr. Fry briefly considered a career as a minister, but instead became a teacher at a school, where he wrote the words for a choral work by a fellow teacher. But from 1929 onward, he committed himself to the theater: acting and directing, writing pantomimes and musical shows for amateurs, and running a repertory company in Tunbridge Wells, where he presented the premiere of ''A Village Wooing'' by Shaw in 1934. He also was commissioned to write a play about Dr. Thomas John Barnardo, the founder of a network of children's homes, which toured Britain in 1935 and 1936 and included in its amateur cast a teenager called Deborah Trimmer, who later became Deborah Kerr.
        But what Mr. Fry always described as the Calling -- the compulsion to become a dramatist with his own distinctive voice -- remained unfulfilled until 1938, when the vicar of the Sussex village where he was living asked for a play celebrating his church's jubilee year and suggested that a local saint, Cuthman, would make a good subject. The result was ''Boy With a Cart,'' a verse drama about the ninth-century shepherd who founded a church after making a miracle-marked journey from Cornwall to Sussex.
        The play was strongly influenced by ''Murder in the Cathedral'' by T.S. Eliot, who became Mr. Fry's friend and mentor.
        When World War II began, Mr. Fry confided to Eliot that though he could not fight because he was a pacifist, he wanted to make a contribution; he thought of joining the fire service, but he had a fear of heights. Eliot suggested a solution: ''Specialize in basements!''
        Mr. Fry, who in 1939 had become the $10-a-week artistic director of Oxford Playhouse, joined a noncombatant army unit and found himself cleaning out sewers at the docks.
        In the 1930's and 1940's, Mr. Fry and his wife, the former Phyllis Hart, whom he married in 1936, lived in some poverty in the countryside. But his fortunes were changing.
        His play ''A Phoenix Too Frequent,'' about the love between a nihilistic Roman soldier and a young woman planning to entomb herself with her dead husband, gave Paul Scofield his first London lead in 1946. ''The Lady's Not for Burning'' arrived in 1948, and was received so warmly that John Gielgud restaged it in the West End in 1949. Gielgud decided to cast himself as the soldier who returns in despair from fighting in the 100 Years War and is emotionally rescued by the young woman whose scientific experiments have brought accusations of witchcraft. The main supporting roles were performed by two then-unknown actors, Claire Bloom and Richard Burton.
        In 1950, Mr. Fry was enjoying an annus mirabilis, with three of his original plays and one adaptation running in London during the course of the year. The adaptation was his version of Anouilh's ''Ring Round the Moon,'' presented by Peter Brook.
        In addition, while ''Lady'' was still running, Olivier opened a celebrated season of plays with Mr. Fry's ''Venus Observed.'' Olivier himself played a scientifically minded duke brought by his long-suffering mistress to recognize the selfishness of his habitual detachment.
        By now Mr. Fry was being acclaimed not only as the dramatist who had brought a neo-Elizabethan verbal dash to a drab theater, but also as the writer who was bringing a refreshing warmth to a drab postwar Britain. For Kenneth Tynan, ''he gave us access to imagined worlds in which rationing and the rest of austerity's paraphernalia could be forgotten.''
        Soon Mr. Fry's work was presented in New York. ''A Phoenix Too Frequent'' ran for only five performances in 1950, but ''The Lady's Not for Burning,'' with Burton in a reprise of his West End role, opened later that year and won acclaim from Broadway critics. Brooks Atkinson, in The New York Times, praised its ''hard glitter of wit and skepticism'' and it proved a success.
        But tastes were changing. His next play, ''The Dark Is Light Enough,'' with Edith Evans as a spiritually serene countess caught between armies in 1848, was widely criticized as dramatically static when it opened in London in 1954.
        Mr. Fry, who had taken pride in liberating the theater from the drawing-room realists, found himself accused of escapism by the adherents of the ''angry young men'' and their working-class naturalism. His poetry was increasingly dismissed as affected and decorative. The critic Denis Donoghue talked of ''the wanton prancing of words.''
        Mr. Fry went on to adapt ''The Lark'' by Anouilh and Giraudoux's ''Tiger at the Gates,'' ''Duel of Angels'' and ''Judith.'' He went to Rome for two weeks to doctor the script for ''Ben-Hur,'' with Charlton Heston, but wound up spending 14 months there producing a screenplay fine enough to earn him employment as the writer on the less successful films ''Barabbas'' and ''The Bible.''
        In 1962, the cool reception of the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of his play about Henry II, ''Curtmantle,'' undermined his self-confidence. He had always had trouble writing unless a producer encouraged or, preferably, commissioned him, and as the years passed his only substantial dramatic work was ''A Yard of Sun,'' a Siennese love story performed at Nottingham Playhouse in 1970.
        In the 1970's and 1980's he translated Rostand's ''Cyrano,'' wrote a television series about the Brontës and a short play about the early religious poet Caedmon for performance in Chelmsford Cathedral. But increasingly he preferred to sit quietly beside the waterfall in his garden in East Dean, the Sussex village where he and his wife had their home. Though he made the occasional trip to London, as recently as 1997 he told an interviewer, ''it's difficult enough fitting life in without finding room for the theater.'' Mr. Fry's wife died in 1987.
        Although by late in his life his plays were no longer represented on the West End stage, the title of the most famous of them achieved a strange public after-life when Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, faced with rebellion in her cabinet over her plans to cut public spending, belligerently declared, ''The lady's not for turning.'' Mr. Fry, characteristically, was not flattered. Asked what he felt about the remark, he gently replied, ''I don't think she knew the play.''
      