
        Danny Simon, a veteran television writer and teacher whose comedy writing partners over the years included Mel Brooks, Larry Gelbart, Woody Allen and his younger brother, the playwright Neil Simon, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his brother said.
        Mr. Allen was known to say he learned everything he knew about comedy writing from Danny Simon, and he was probably not alone. Over his six-decade career, Mr. Simon practiced and taught comedy everywhere from Sid Caesar's ''Your Show of Shows'' to institutions like Duke University, where he was once quoted as saying, ''A long time ago, I realized I didn't like writing.''
        If so, he surely chose a funny profession. Born in the Bronx, Mr. Simon took to the trade in the late 1940's with his brother as a comedy writing team for a variety of television and radio shows and stars, including Phil Silvers and Milton Berle. Soon the brothers were part of Mr. Caesar's stable of ''golden age'' writers, working on a live weekly television show in a chaotic, competitive environment captured by Neil Simon's 1993 play, ''Laughter on the 23rd Floor.''
        It would not be the last time Mr. Simon's life was used by his brother as comedic fodder. In 1962, Mr. Simon, a finicky dresser and recently divorced, moved in with another divorced man who was somewhat less concerned with cleanliness. Three years later, ''The Odd Couple'' made its debut on Broadway and ran more than two years. It became a 1968 film starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, spawned a popular television series and is being revived on Broadway this season.
        It was also a play that Danny Simon would direct dozens of times over the years, including, briefly, a 1985 all-female Broadway version; he left the production while it was playing out of town.
        Long before that, however, the Simon brothers had broken up as a writing team, with Danny remaining in television, initially as the head writer of NBC's ''Colgate Comedy Hour.'' Later credits would include shows like ''Make Room for Daddy,'' with Danny Thomas, ''The Facts of Life'' and ''Diff'rent Strokes.''
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Simon taught and led writing seminars around the country, work that gave him unexpected joys, he said in a 1987 interview with a Duke student newspaper, The Chronicle. Seeing his students' comedy credits made him feel like ''the Mr. Chips of comedy writing,'' he said.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Simon is survived by his son, Michael, of Portland; his daughter, Valerie, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
        On Tuesday, by e-mail, Neil Simon wrote: ''Danny made me laugh. He made everyone laugh. He was a character (in more ways than one) in at least 9 or 10 of my plays, and I'm sure will probably be there again in many plays to come.''
        Indeed, the Simons shared both a healthy sibling rivalry and a deep fraternal bond. Asked by The Chronicle what his greatest accomplishment was, he responded, ''I gave Neil Simon and Woody Allen their start in comedy.''
      