
        Rowland B. Wilson, whose watercolor cartoons were instantly recognizable to readers of Playboy, The Saturday Evening Post, Esquire and The New Yorker, died on June 28 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 74 and lived in La Costa, Calif.
        The cause was heart failure, his daughter Megan Wilson said in a statement. His sketches for a new cartoon for Playboy were on his drawing board when he died, she said.
        Long a mainstay of Playboy, Mr. Wilson's full-page color panels were often playful but generally tamer than those of fellow artists in the magazine. He enjoyed drawing dragons, poker-playing reindeer and Santa Claus, whom he once depicted, surrounded by elves, accepting an award ''on behalf of all the little people who did so much to make it possible.''
        Mr. Wilson, a tall, slow-talking Texan, came to New York during the golden age of Madison Avenue and worked as an art director at Young & Rubicam. He tackled themes with clear draftsmanship and what admirers viewed as a gentle sensibility, though he acknowledged that his work took effort. ''Ideas are easy to come by,'' he said. ''It's the drawing that takes a long time.''
        Mr. Wilson's cartoons poked fun at the blandness of human response to trauma and danger. ''You think I'm obligated to come across now, don't you, you male chauvinist pig!?'' says a disenchanted damsel to her exhausted knight and rescuer in a Playboy cartoon. In another one, an airplane pilot's view of the landscape is a Monopoly board.
        ''These poor humans have no idea what is happening to them,'' said Michelle Urry, the cartoon editor at Playboy. She worked with Mr. Wilson, whose relationship with the magazine began in 1967.
        Some of Mr. Wilson's best work appeared in a popular advertising campaign for New England Life Insurance, which he produced while living in Weston, Conn. Distinctive for their representations of impending disaster, the situations in Mr. Wilson's cartoons were like clownish screams of warning in a silent film. In one, a wrecking ball at a Manhattan construction site swings toward a glass-walled corner office, where a smug executive reclines in his chair, his back to the wall, as he discusses his insurance coverage on the phone.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Wilson moved to London, where he worked in animation. After returning to the United States, he was an animator on the Disney films ''The Little Mermaid,'' ''The Hunchback of Notre Dame,'' ''Tarzan'' and ''Hercules.'' He was awarded a daytime Emmy for his animation on ''Schoolhouse Rock!'' His cartoon collection, ''The Whites of Their Eyes,'' was published in 1962.
        Rowland Bragg Wilson was born in Dallas on Aug. 3, 1930. As a child, he spent Saturdays at the movies and, afterward, practiced drawing at the kitchen table. He received a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the University of Texas and did graduate work in art history at Columbia University.
        Mr. Wilson's first marriage, to Elaine Libman, ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter Megan, a commercial artist in Manhattan, he is survived by three other daughters from his first marriage, also commercial artists, Amanda Wilson of Piedmont, N.Y.; Reed Wilson of London; and Kendra Wilson of Leicestershire, England. He is also survived by his second wife, Suzanne Lemieux Wilson, an artist; and three grandchildren.
      