
        Dr. Clarence Dennis, a pioneering developer of the heart-lung bypass machine and other mechanical heart devices that have extended the lives of millions, died on July 11 in St. Paul. He was 96.
        The cause was dementia, his family said.
        Dr. Dennis trained hundreds of surgeons at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn and at SUNY-Stony Brook. But his career followed a roller-coaster course shared by many other medical researchers whose initial visions turned to failure before being realized.
        ''Dr. Dennis was one of the true innovators and visionaries in the cardiovascular field,'' said Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, the trailblazing heart surgeon at the Baylor College of Medicine, a friend of his.
        On April 5, 1951, at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Dr. Dennis performed the world's first open-heart operation to be done with the use of a heart-lung bypass machine. The apparatus worked well, but the patient, a 6-year-old girl, died because her heart defect, far more complicated than the surgical team had realized, was beyond any repair then possible.
        Two weeks later, Dr. Dennis's team used the heart-lung machine on a second patient, who died because of a technician's blunder during the operation.
        Still, Dr. Dennis maintained hope, writing in The Annals of Surgery later that year that the device ''provides promise of a useful tool in further cases.''
        That promise was fulfilled two years later, on May 6, 1953, at Jefferson Hospital in Philadelphia, by Dr. John H. Gibbon, who had been trying to develop a heart-lung machine since the mid-1930's. Dr. Gibbon's success ''blasted open the door that had been locked for centuries against any medical therapeutic intrusion into the cardiovascular field,'' Dr. DeBakey said.
        For eight years before that blast, Dr. Dennis had been exchanging ideas and information with Dr. Gibbon to avoid duplicating their efforts and speed development of a machine.
        In 1945, when Dr. Dennis began his research into such an apparatus, surgeons' ability to repair a damaged heart was very limited. Given its dangers, the leading surgeons of the late 19th century had virtually banned efforts at heart surgery.
        Yet along the way, a few defiant leaders repaired certain types of heart defects in procedures that, Dr. Dennis said, ''fired the imaginations of surgeons.''
        What surgeons needed to realize their visions more fully, however, were devices that could perform two critical functions: keeping blood from the operative field so they could see what they were repairing, and providing an uninterrupted flow of oxygen-rich blood through the body.
        Responding to that challenge, Dr. Dennis used grants from the National Institutes of Health to experiment with dogs, on which his team achieved nearly 100 percent survival before starting on people.
        A few weeks after the two unsuccessful operations in Minneapolis, Dr. Dennis moved to SUNY Downstate. The move, previously planned, delayed his additional efforts to perform open-heart procedures until he could set up a suitable laboratory to improve the heart-lung apparatus.
        His first laboratory after arriving at Downstate was in an empty funeral home, where the campus's Basic Sciences Building now sits. He converted the space to build animal quarters, a chemistry laboratory, an operating room and a small machine shop.
        Dr. Dennis would later say that two cardiologists had helped sway him in his decision to move to Brooklyn, by promising to refer more than 160 heart patients in need of surgery. But once at Downstate, he said, both doctors reneged. Though he never understood the reason, he said, the fact is that beyond the experimental nature of the surgery, many doctors feared losing their own patients by referring them to others. It was a time when cardiologists did not work as closely with heart surgeons as they do now.
        Whatever the case, Dr. Dennis went on to perform the second successful open-heart operation to use a heart-lung machine. The surgery took place on June 30, 1955, two years after Dr. Gibbon's groundbreaking success. Doctors at many medical centers then began performing the procedure, though with death rates that were initially high.
        Dr. Dennis also developed a procedure that used a pump to help support a failing heart, and tried it on 12 patients. The condition of three of them improved for up to 17 hours, but none completely recovered. Other researchers picked up on the concept, though, to create the ventricular assist device, or VAD, which the Food and Drug Administration recently licensed.
        ''Though the mechanical VAD that Dr. Dennis made did not prove to be clinically useful, he deserves a great deal of credit for developing the concept of VAD's,'' said Dr. DeBakey, who is among a team testing such a device.
        A platinum blond, Dr. Dennis maintained a youthful appearance well into his later years. His second wife, the former Mary Steinhilper, recalled that on one occasion he had to win over the confidence of a woman who initially refused to let him operate on her son because she thought that Dr. Dennis, then a full professor, was an intern.
        Clarence Dennis was born on June 16, 1909, in St. Paul, where his father, Walter A. Dennis, was a surgeon. Clarence graduated from Harvard, received a medical degree from Johns Hopkins and earned a master's degree in physiology and a Ph.D. in surgery from the University of Minnesota.
        By 1947, seven years after getting his Ph.D., he was a full professor of surgery at the University of Minnesota and the administrative head of surgery at Minneapolis General. And by 1952, a year after moving to Brooklyn, he was chairman of surgery at Downstate. He also became surgeon in chief at the neighboring Kings County Hospital Center.
        He and his second wife later endowed a $1 million surgical research professorship at SUNY Downstate, the largest endowment the institution had then ever received.
        Dr. Dennis worked with health officials to raise the standard of care in Brooklyn hospitals, complaining that some critically ill patients were transferred to Kings County Hospital without their medical records and that some other centers held patients several hours until they could ''arrive with a load to justify the trip.'' Problems like those contributed to overcrowding at Kings, he said.
        In 1972, Dr. Dennis moved to what was then the National Heart and Lung Institute, in Bethesda, Md., where he further helped to develop mechanical heart devices. In 1975, he moved again, to Stony Brook and the Veterans Administration Hospital in Northport. There, he continued research on wound closures and ailments affecting the stomach and intestines, longstanding interests of his.
        He retired in 1988, returned to St. Paul, came out of retirement in 1991 to become director of the cancer detection center at the University of Minnesota, then retired once more in 1996.
        His first marriage, to Eleanor Smith, ended in divorce. She died about 20 years ago.
        He is survived not only by his second wife but also by a daughter, Jane Wigertz, a cardiac intensive care nurse in Nykoping, Sweden; three sons, Dr. Richard, of Reading, Mass.; Dr. James, of Portland, Ore.; and David, of Austin, Tex.; two stepchildren, Katherine Franda of Plano, Tex., and Gregory Mott of Washington; 14 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      