
        Lord King, a tough-minded executive who in 1981 took over British Airways when its initials were said to signify ''bloody awful,'' and turned it into a sleek, profitable airline attractive enough to draw throngs of public investors when it was privatized six years later, died yesterday at his estate in Leicestershire. He was 87.
        The company announced his death.
        Lord King sliced costs and eliminated employees, spruced up service, fine-tuned the route structure, made marketing agreements with foreign airlines and hired Saatchi & Saatchi, the advertising firm, to come up with a snappy new slogan, ''The World's Favorite Airline.'' The transformation was so profound that when the airline's stock was offered to the public in 1987, demand exceeded supply by 11 times.
        This privatization was the goal of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher from the moment she appointed Lord King chairman of British Airways in 1981, but the government-owned company was then almost universally perceived as far from an attractive buy.
        A comment to The New York Times in 1989 by one frequent British Airways flier underscored its sorry service before Lord King took charge.
        Sir John Egan, chairman of Jaguar, said, ''The attitude was that the customer was an irritating part of the process.''
        The airline was inefficient, overstaffed and reported a loss of nearly $1 billion the year Lord King took over. By the fiscal year that ended in March 1987, its profits were among the industry's highest at $284 million.
        It had become the world's largest international airline in terms of passengers carried, 23 million, and passenger miles flown, 31 billion, according to Fortune magazine in 1988.
        ''Lord King transformed the airline from a position of state-owned weakness to one of financial strength and global renown as a pioneer privatized carrier,'' Martin Broughton, the current British Airways chairman, said in a statement.
        The later years of Lord King's life were marred by his rivalry with the boss of Virgin Atlantic, Sir Richard Branson, as the two sparred to win customers. They ended up in court where Lord King was ordered to pay libel judgments to both Virgin Atlantic and Sir Richard.
        Lord King lived the life of a country squire in Leicestershire, where he was master of foxhounds for two different hunts and affected the garb of a gentleman farmer. His roots, however, were humble.
        He was born John King in Brentwood, Essex, on Aug. 29, 1917, and later added the middle name Leonard. His father was an army sergeant and his mother took in washing to augment the family income, according to The Independent in 1990.
        After high school, he worked at a number of jobs, including on a vacuum cleaner assembly line. He then sold cars, married the boss's daughter, Lorna Sykes, and was given his own Ford dealership by his new father-in-law. They had three sons and a daughter before she died in 1969. The next year, he married Isabel Monckton.
        During World War II, he started an engineering company, Whitehouse Industries, to make component parts for machine tools. He then built a ball bearing manufacturer, Pollard Bearings, ultimately selling it for a large profit in 1969 when the British government forced the industry's three largest firms to merge. He then headed a fire truck maker, Dennis Brothers, again selling out for a profit.
        He then joined the power-generator maker that is now called Babcock International, rising to president and chairman. He retained this affiliation while at British Airways.
        Lord King, a Conservative Party member, was often described as Mrs. Thatcher's favorite businessman, and she gave him the daunting assignment of straightening out the mess British Airways had become since it was created through the merger of British European Airways and the British Overseas Airways Corporation in 1974.
        He quickly slashed the work force to 36,000 from 59,000, modernized the fleet and eliminated unprofitable routes. In 1983, Lord King emphasized his commitment to service by hiring Colin Marshall, a seasoned marketing professional who had previously worked for Avis, but never an airline. Lord King saw his own inexperience as useful.
        ''There seemed to be an advantage to not knowing too much about the business,'' he said to Fortune. ''In my ignorance I could do things I might not have done if I had been better informed.''
        Lord King was knighted in 1979 and awarded a life peerage as Baron of Wartnaby in 1983.
      