
        Judge Vito J. Titone, long a firm liberal voice on the New York State Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, died on Wednesday on Staten Island. He was 76.
        The death was announced by the Court of Appeals in Albany, to which he was elevated as an associate judge in 1985 by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a friend since law school. No cause was given; his family said he died after a long illness.
        He retired from the court in 1998.
        During his tenure, the Supreme Court moved toward restricting some of the rights of criminal suspects and defendants. The Albany court, on the other hand, though it split at times, was a leader among those high state courts that tended to broaden such rights, and Judge Titone became a prime mover in that movement, to the chagrin of Gov. George E. Pataki.
        The governor repeatedly criticized the state bench for decisions that he said stretched the law and hindered the police and state prosecutors.
        Judge Titone at one point departed from the customary circumspection shrouding the appeals courts and publicly rebutted the criticism.
        ''To say we are soft on criminals is not to look at the whole picture,'' he said. ''They are looking at a minuscule amount of cases. I would defend their right to criticize, but I also defend my right to decide a case without fear of rotten tomatoes and eggs being thrown at me.''
        In an early constitutional opinion, in 1985, Judge Titone took a conservative stance. He wrote that the New York Civil Liberties Union had no right to pass out political leaflets in a privately owned shopping mall.
        That decision, he remarked later, made him look like ''the most conservative judge in the world.''
        But a subsequent majority opinion he wrote expanded the definition of ''family'' in 1989 so the survivor of a homosexual couple could claim succession rights to a rent-controlled apartment; another opinion, contrary to a Supreme Court precedent, said in 1990 that under the State Constitution, the police must have a reasonable suspicion before they use a drug-detecting dog to sniff around someone's door; and in yet another case, in 1992, he wrote the opinion in a decision striking down a state law that had allowed the police to inspect salvage yards without a warrant while searching for evidence against stolen-car ''chop shops.''
        That decision, too, ran counter to a Supreme Court ruling. But, Judge Titone contended, a case required an ''independent construction of our own State Constitution'' when the Supreme Court, in ''a sharp and sudden'' course change, ''dramatically narrows fundamental constitutional rights that our citizens have long assumed to be part of their birthright.''
        Another opinion, which he considered among his most important, in 1996 overturned a family law precedent in the state and held that the courts must focus on the best interests of the child when ruling on a custodial parent's wish to relocate.
        ''It is the rights and needs of the children that must be accorded the greatest weight,'' he wrote, ''since they are innocent victims of their parents' decision to divorce and are the least equipped to handle the stresses of the changing family situation.''
        Vito Joseph Titone was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Queens. He graduated from New York University in 1951 and received his law degree at St. John's University in 1956, a classmate of Mr. Cuomo. He taught law at Staten Island College and later at St. John's, into the mid-1980's. He twice ran unsuccessfully for the State Senate and was elected to the State Supreme Court on Staten Island in 1969. In 1975, Gov. Hugh L. Carey named him to the Appellate Division, the middle level of the state court system.
        Judge Titone is survived by his wife of 49 years, Margaret Viola Titone; two sons, Stephen D. and Matthew J., both of Staten Island; two daughters, Elena T. Hill of Bath, England, and Elizabeth Titone-Alderson of Brooklyn; two sisters, Mary Ann Izzo and Jean Bushimi, both of Florida; and five grandchildren.
        Judge Titone's 14-year term on the Court of Appeals did not end until 1999, so his retirement came as a surprise. He joined the small Manhattan firm of Mintz & Gold, saying he wanted to work part time and spend more time with his grandchildren.
        ''I'm leaving now because I'm healthy now,'' he explained, ''and 30 years is a long time to be a judge.''
      