
        Myron Floren, an accordion virtuoso whose televised solos with the Lawrence Welk band became a staple of the cheerful folksiness that was the Welk show's hallmark, died on Saturday at his home in Rolling Hills, Calif., said Margaret Heron, syndication manager for the show. He was 85.
        Largely self-taught, Mr. Floren was one of the country's most famous accordionists, certainly the only one featured weekly by a big band with a coast-to-coast television audience. A farmer's son from South Dakota, he was a quintessential part of the Welk musical family -- a wholesome and amiable company of singers, dancers and musicians adored by nostalgic viewers for their easygoing take on big-band music.
        His serene smile earned him the moniker ''the happy Norwegian,'' and he liked to make a song hum by trilling each note. During his renditions of ''Lady of Spain,'' his showpiece, he would place a leg against his sequined accordion and furrow his brow in concentration.
        Welk, a farm boy turned bandleader, described the band's sentimental and danceable arrangements as ''Champagne music.''
        ''Keep it simple so the audience can feel like they can do it, too,'' Welk would say. And, ''You have to play what the people understand.''
        Despite the disdain of highbrow critics, ''The Lawrence Welk Show'' became one of the most enduring programs in television history, and its weekly reruns still attract millions of viewers. At its heart was a folksy familiarity that Welk attributed to his and Mr. Floren's Midwestern roots. Both were sons of immigrant farmers in the Dakotas (Welk in Strasburg, N.D., Mr. Floren in Roslyn, S.D.), and both took up the accordion, whose tremulous music reminded their families and immigrant neighbors of home.
        Then and now, it was a peculiar instrument to feature in a big band. In his autobiography, ''Accordion Man'' (Stephen Greene Press, 1981), written with his daughter Randee, Mr. Floren relates that the director of his college orchestra coolly informed him there was no place for an accordionist. ''I thought to myself, 'Maybe not now, but just wait!''' Mr. Floren recalled.
        The oldest of seven children, Mr. Floren was born on Nov. 5, 1919, in Roslyn to Ole and Tillie Floren, Norwegian immigrants. He began playing the accordion when he was 7, and he later said he had honed his technique by milking cows on the family's farm. He took piano lessons to learn to read music, and he paid for them with eggs from the family's chickens.
        After attending Augustana College in Sioux Falls, S.D., he performed as the Melody Man on a radio station in Sioux Falls, and he entertained troops in Europe during World War II. He then joined the Buckeye Four, a country music group in St. Louis.
        His audition for Welk was an impromptu performance with the Welk band at a ballroom in St. Louis. Welk, an acquaintance, had spotted him with his wife on the dance floor and invited him to play. During his solo, Welk crawled under the band's grand piano and waved a white handkerchief in surrender.
        Mr. Floren was offered a job during intermission and held onto it for the next 32 years, making several solo albums on the Welk Music Group's record label. He collaborated with Welk on a popular compilation of the world's greatest polkas, and he worked as backup conductor, assistant band director and stage manager -- ''my right-hand man for over 30 years,'' Welk later called him.
        ''The Lawrence Welk Show,'' first broadcast in Los Angeles in 1953, regaled a national audience on Saturday evenings for 16 years starting in 1955. When network executives dropped it in 1971 in favor of hipper programming, more than 200 independent stations chose to keep it on the air for 11 more years. Reruns began appearing in 1987, and the show now has the highest ratings of any syndicated program on public television, reaching three million households each Sunday afternoon.
        After the Welk show stopped filming, Mr. Floren continued playing with big bands across the country, making roughly 150 appearances a year before suffering a stroke and discovering that he had colon cancer. He also directed several productions featuring the show's former stars.
        Mr. Floren is survived by his wife, Berdyne; five daughters, Randee, Robin, Heidi, Holly and Kristie; and seven grandchildren.
      