
        Sonny Hertzberg, the scoring leader for the Knicks in their inaugural 1946-47 season, when the set shot reigned and the new franchise seemed an extension of the New York City college basketball scene, died Monday at his home in Woodmere, N.Y. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, his son, Howard, said.
        Hertzberg, a 6-foot guard and native of Brooklyn, was an outstanding player at City College, teaming up with Red Holzman, the future Knicks coach, during the early 1940's.
        On Nov. 1, 1946, Hertzberg was on the court -- a floor covering the ice at Maple Leaf Gardens -- when the Knicks played the first game in their history, and the inaugural game of the Basketball Association of America, the forerunner of the N.B.A.
        He scored only 2 points in the Knicks' 68-66 victory over the Toronto Huskies, but he went on to score a team-leading 515 points in the 60-game season.
        Hertzberg averaged a modest 8.7 points a game, but the pro game was a rough, slow-moving affair in the 1940's, and only Joe Fulks of the league-champion Philadelphia Warriors, averaging 23.2 points a game with a pioneering jump shot, exceeded a 20-point-a-game average.
        In that first season, when college basketball was king, the Knicks played most home games at the 69th Regiment Armory because the college game and hockey were bigger attractions at Madison Square Garden.
        Pro basketball, Hertzberg recalled, could not have been more foreign to the Toronto fans on that opening evening.
        ''Whenever there was a jump ball, the fans would yell, 'Face-off,''' he told Dave Anderson of The New York Times 50 years later, when he was honored with four fellow members of the original Knicks: Nat Militzok, formerly of Hofstra; Ralph Kaplowitz, from New York University; Hank Rosenstein of City College; and Ossie Schectman of Long Island University.
        Hertzberg joined the Washington Capitols early in the 1947-48 season, playing for Red Auerbach. He led the Boston Celtics in scoring in 1949-50, and the next season, when Auerbach became the Celtics' coach, Hertzberg started in the backcourt alongside Bob Cousy, who was in his rookie season.
        ''My game strength was court savvy,'' Hertzberg told Charles Salzberg in ''From Set Shot to Slam Dunk.'' As he remembered it: ''I could set up plays. Red Auerbach called me his second coach on the floor. Cousy said the same thing.''
        After five seasons in the N.B.A., Hertzberg served as a scout and broadcasting commentator for the Knicks, then became a senior executive at Bear Stearns, an investment bank and brokerage firm.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Irene; his daughter, Lois Nevitt; and four grandchildren.
        In Hertzberg's playing days, conditions on the road were sometimes comparable to the gritty court style.
        Hertzberg told of a time when the Knicks traveled in a group of cars to make a train connection after a game in Toronto because their flight was snowed in.
        ''The car I was in broke down out in the country,'' he told The Wall Street Journal in 2001. ''We hitchhiked to a restaurant, and while we were sitting there waiting for a tow, some Mounties came in and started questioning us about a robbery. We were big guys, rough looking, unshaven, so I guess the restaurant owner thought we looked suspicious. Looking back, I can't blame him.''
      