
        Dr. Conrad M. Riley, a versatile pediatrician who helped describe Riley-Day syndrome, a rare genetic childhood disorder that harms the nervous system and often leads to early death, died on July 5 at the University of Colorado Hospital in Denver. He was 91.
        The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family said.
        In 1949, while working at Columbia University with Dr. Richard L. Day and others, Dr. Riley described a complex disease most commonly found in Jewish children, particularly those of Ashkenazi, or Eastern European, descent. The symptoms include seizures, insensitivity to pain, vomiting, extremes in blood pressure, inability to produce tears and delay in puberty.
        The disorder, which is caused by a defective gene inherited from both parents, can lead to death before age 20. Among Ashkenazi children, the incidence of Riley-Day, or familial dysautonomia, is about 1 in 3,700. There is no known cure or effective treatment.
        In 1960, Dr. Riley moved to the University of Colorado School of Medicine, where, broadening his research in the use of hydrocortisone to treat pediatric kidney disorders, he applied it to preventive medicine.
        He was chairman of the university's department of preventive medicine from 1961 to 1966 and, while continuing to practice as a pediatrician, served as an associate dean and a member of the health sciences ethics committee. Dr. Riley argued for liberalizing Colorado's abortion law and for increasing the number of women and minority members accepted to the medical school.
        In addition to his academic work and medical practice, He also became president of the Denver Zoo's board of trustees.
        Conrad Milton Riley was born in Worcester, Mass. He earned his undergraduate degree from Yale and, in 1938, a medical degree from Harvard.
        Dr. Riley was married four times; three of his wives preceded him in death. He is survived by the fourth, Marilyn Griggs Riley of Denver; a son, Christopher, of Fort Myers Beach, Fla.; three daughters, Jody Aardal of Parker, Colo., and Kitty Clark and Patricia Riley, both of Brookline, Mass.; a brother, Chapin, of Malibu, Calif.; a sister, Rosamond R. Bennett of Worcester; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      