
        Richard Kelly, a Florida politician who became the only Republican congressman convicted in the Abscam corruption scandal a quarter century ago, died Monday at a nursing home in Stevensville, Mont., where he had moved in retirement. He was 81.
        His death was confirmed by the Whitesitt Funeral Home in Stevensville.
        Mr. Kelly, a former federal prosecutor and judge, was elected to Congress in 1974 and was re-elected twice from a central Florida district that stretched from Orlando to Clearwater. He lost a bid for re-nomination in 1980 after he and six other members of Congress were caught in the Abscam undercover bribery investigation, in which agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation posed as Arab sheiks buying influence. His sentence was the lightest given to any of the defendants.
        Mr. Kelly, who said he had accepted $25,000 in cash as part of his own investigation of corruption, was convicted by a federal jury of bribery and conspiracy in January 1981. Judge William B. Bryant of Federal District Court threw out the conviction, saying the government agents had used outrageous tactics and should have stopped pressuring Mr. Kelly after he had rebuffed their initial bribe offers.
        The conviction was reinstated by higher courts on the ground that the elaborate hoax ''simply did not reach intolerable levels,'' after which Judge Bryant, in 1984, sentenced Mr. Kelly to 6 to 18 months in prison, of which he served 13 months.
        Richard Kelly was born in Atlanta. He served in the Marine Corps during World War II, graduated from the Colorado State College of Education in 1949, and received a law degree from the University of Florida in 1952.
        He went into private practice in Zephyrhills, Fla., where he also served as city attorney. He was a senior assistant United States attorney in the Southern District of Florida in the late 1950's and later was a circuit judge until his election to Congress.
        Mr. Kelly is survived by his wife, Claire; a daughter, Sherri; and a son, John.
      