
        Morton Yarmon, a former director of public information and education for the American Jewish Committee and, with his wife, Betty, a major benefactor of Beth Israel Medical Center, died on Wednesday in his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 89.
        His death followed complications related to a stroke, his wife said.
        In 1994, after a stroke necessitated a stay at Beth Israel Medical Center, he and his wife made their first gift to the hospital, and ultimately contributed more than $5 million. Mrs. Yarmon said they built their fortune through smart investments, including financial interests in the publishing company Leader Enterprises and the public relations newsletter Partyline, published out of their home since 1960, as well as through Mr. Yarmon's salary from the American Jewish Committee.
        Mr. Yarmon was born in New York City on March 8, 1916, and graduated from what was then City College at 18. He received a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University.
        During World War II, as an American Army captain in Paris, Mr. Yarmon wrote a history of the battle of Cherbourg, in addition to ''Opportunities in the Armed Forces,'' the first of several books written with Maxwell Lehman. While still in the Army he volunteered his services to The Herald Tribune, and stayed on briefly after the war to work there as an editor.
        Back in the United States, he became a vice president of Leader Enterprises, the company that published The Civil Service Leader, a newspaper for civil service employees, where he had worked before the war. While working for Leader, he also took an evening job as a copy editor at The New York Times. He worked there for nine years in the 40's and 50's, first on the foreign desk and later as an editor on what was then called the women's section. He also published several books, ranging from one on Early American antiques to an investment guide and a writing manual.
        He worked for the public relations firm Ruder & Finn for a time and later was an assistant managing editor of Parade magazine.
        In 1963, Mr. Yarmon became the director of public education and information for the American Jewish Committee and was its chief public relations strategist for 28 years.
        Beginning in 1993, Mr. and Mrs. Yarmon developed a philanthropic relationship with Beth Israel Medical Center and its parent company, Continuum Health Care Partners, of which she is a trustee. Their gifts to Beth Israel supported projects including the Betty and Morton Yarmon Center for Parkinson's Disease, the Betty and Morton Yarmon Neurobehavior and Alzheimer's Disease Center and the Betty and Morton Yarmon Stroke Center.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Yarmon is survived by a brother, Elliott.
      