
        Donald H. Shively, a noted scholar of Japanese literature and culture whose work helped forge the emerging discipline of Japanese studies in the United States in the decades after World War II, died on Aug. 13 in Oakland, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Berkeley.
        The cause was complications of Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurodegenerative disease, according to the University of California, Berkeley, where Dr. Shively was emeritus professor of East Asian languages and cultures. Dr. Shively had also taught at Harvard University for many years.
        An authority on the popular culture of the Tokugawa period (1603-1868), Dr. Shively was best known for his translation of ''The Love Suicide at Amijima,'' a domestic tragedy by the renowned Japanese dramatist Monzaemon Chikamatsu (1653-1725). Dr. Shively's translation, originally published in 1953, was re-issued by the University of Michigan in 1991.
        Written in 1720 as a puppet play, ''The Love Suicide at Amijima'' was quickly adopted by the kabuki theater for performance by live actors and remains a staple of both theatrical traditions. The play told the story of a paper merchant torn between his love for a young prostitute and duty to his wife. (A film adaptation, ''Double Suicide,'' directed by Masahiro Shinoda, was released in 1969.)
        In focusing on ordinary townspeople rather than on samurai or noblemen, Chikamatsu's play was a seminal example of the populist literary tradition then emerging in defiance of the widespread censorship and repression of the Tokugawa shogunate.
        Donald Howard Shively was born on May 11, 1921, in Kyoto, Japan, the son of American missionaries there. Educated almost entirely in Japan, he entered Harvard in 1940, before World War II interrupted his studies. A member of the Marine Corps, he worked as a Japanese-language officer during the war. Returning to Harvard, he received his bachelor's degree in 1946, a master's degree the next year and a Ph.D. in 1951.
        After teaching at Berkeley from 1950 to 1962, Dr. Shively moved to Stanford, where he taught from 1962 to 1964. He was a member of the Harvard faculty from 1964 to 1983. That year, he rejoined the faculty at Berkeley, where he was also the head of the university's East Asian library. He retired in 1992.
        Dr. Shively's first two marriages, to Emily Mary King and Ilse Dorothea Raacke, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Mary Elizabeth Berry, a professor of Japanese history at Berkeley whom he married in 1980; two sons from his second marriage: Kent Raacke Shively of Seattle and Evan Raacke Shively of Marshall, Calif.; two daughters from his marriage to Ms. Berry: Anne Shively Berry and Catherine Shively Berry, both students at Oberlin College; two sisters: Mary Pursel of Honolulu and Alice Bunce of Virginia; and three grandchildren. A son from Dr. Shively's first marriage, Bruce King Shively, died in 2003.
        Dr. Shively edited several books, among them ''Personality in Japanese History'' (University of California, 1970, with Albert M. Craig); ''Tradition and Modernization in Japanese Culture'' (Princeton University, 1971); and ''Studies in Kabuki: Its Acting, Music and Historical Context'' (University of Hawaii, 1978, with James R. Brandon and William P. Malm).
        In 1982 he was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun by the government of Japan.
      