
        Jane Lawrence Smith, an actress and singer and the widow of the architect and sculptor Tony Smith, died on Aug. 5 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 90.
        Her death was announced by her family.
        Ms. Smith was one of the last survivors of the central circle of Abstract Expressionist artists and companions who came to the fore in New York in the 1940's and 50's. Her husband was close to Jackson Pollock and Barnett Newman, and she was the subject of one of Pollock's late black-and-white paintings, ''No. 7'' (1952), now owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Two of her daughters, Kiki Smith and Seton Smith, are artists, adding to her prominence in the art world, but she made a career of her own in entertainment.
        Jane Lawrence was born in Bozeman, Mont., in 1915 and raised in Mount Vernon, Wash. At 16, she began studying theater. By the time she was 18, she was living in New York and making her way in the theater. She appeared on Broadway in the original casts of ''Oklahoma!,'' ''Inside U.S.A.'' and ''Where's Charley?,'' the musical based on ''Charley's Aunt.'' As June Lawrence, she appeared in the Columbia Pictures movie ''Sailor's Holiday'' (1944), and she was also in three independent films.
        In 1943 she married Tony Smith in Hollywood, with her close friend Tennessee Williams as best man. Her family said she helped inspire aspects of the character Blanche DuBois in Williams's ''Streetcar Named Desire.''
        In 1950 she traveled to Europe and began an opera career in Germany; the next year she sang the part of Electra in the 1951 Salzburg Festival presentation of ''Idomeneo,'' conducted by Georg Solti. After her husband's death, in 1980, she resumed her acting career, this time in avant-garde theater, and worked with the directors John Jesurun, Joan Jonas and Marianne Weems.
        Ms. Smith's daughter Beatrice Smith Robinson died in 1988. In addition to her daughters Kiki and Seton, who live in New York, she is survived by a granddaughter.
      