
        Sumner M. Rosen, a prominent political economist and a longtime advocate of social policies to benefit working people, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Dr. Rosen was emeritus professor at the Columbia University School of Social Work, where he had taught social policy for nearly two decades. Among the issues with which he was most closely associated were joblessness, workers' rights, health care policy, the global economy and the economics of disarmament.
        Dr. Rosen was a founder and board member of the Five Borough Institute, a public policy organization based in New York City that studies urban economic issues and their effect on the lives of working people. He was also a founder and vice-chairman of the National Jobs for All Coalition, which advocates full employment at livable wages.
        Last year, Dr. Rosen, a decorated World War II veteran, helped found Purple Heart Veterans Against the War, which opposes the United States' military involvement in Iraq.
        Sumner Maurice Rosen was born in Boston on June 17, 1923. During World War II, he served with the Army Infantry in Europe and was wounded in the Battle of the Bulge. He was awarded a Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts.
        Dr. Rosen earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard in 1948 and a Ph.D. in labor economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1959. He married Judith Davidoff, a musician, in 1949; she is a noted cellist and viola da gamba player. Besides Ms. Davidoff, Dr. Rosen is survived by a son, Max, of Manhattan; a daughter, Rebekah Rosen-Gomez, of Jamestown, R.I.; and two grandchildren.
        During the 1960's, Dr. Rosen worked in the research department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and was research director of New York University's New Careers Development Center, which offered job training for the chronically poor. He joined the Columbia faculty in 1975, retiring in 1993. Dr. Rosen also taught at Rutgers University, Brooklyn College and Northeastern University.
        Dr. Rosen edited several books, including ''Economic Power Failure: The Current American Crisis'' (McGraw-Hill, 1975) and, with Aaron W. Warner and Mathew Forstater, ''Commitment to Full Employment: The Economics and Social Policy of William S. Vickrey'' (M.E. Sharpe, 2000).
      