
        Al McKibbon, a bassist who anchored some of the leading jazz bands of the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 86.
        His death was announced by Gary Chen-Stein, a friend, who owns the music store Stein on Vine in Hollywood.
        Mr. McKibbon was admired by fellow musicians for his big sound and his impeccable sense of time, but little known to the general public. His profile grew even lower after he moved from New York to Los Angeles in 1958 and began devoting most of his time to studio work.
        But by then he had left an indelible mark on jazz history through his work with Dizzy Gillespie's big band and with popular small groups led by the pianist George Shearing and the vibraphonist Cal Tjader. He also took part in some of Thelonious Monk's earliest recordings and Miles Davis's celebrated ''Birth of the Cool'' sessions.
        After Mr. McKibbon spent more than a decade in relative anonymity on the West Coast, his stature in the jazz world was reaffirmed when the promoter George Wein hired him for an all-star sextet called the Giants of Jazz, which toured the world in 1971 and 1972. Among the other members were Gillespie and Monk.
        Alfred Benjamin McKibbon was born in Chicago on Jan. 1, 1919, and grew up in Detroit. His parents were musical -- his father played tuba and guitar, his mother sang -- and he began studying the string bass at Cass Technical High School. He was soon working at local nightclubs, and when the bandleader Lucky Millinder found himself in Detroit without a bassist in 1943, Mr. McKibbon was hired. After traveling to New York with Millinder's band, he settled there and soon became a fixture of the nightclub scene on 52nd Street.
        In 1947 he joined Gillespie's big band. Gillespie, one of the architects of bebop, was also beginning to experiment with a fusion of jazz and Afro-Cuban music on recordings like ''Manteca.'' Mr. McKibbon was drawn to this new style, and when he joined Mr. Shearing's quintet in 1951 he helped introduce a strong Afro-Cuban element to Mr. Shearing's music. After six years in that very popular group he joined Tjader, another former Shearing sideman, who with Mr. McKibbon's help soon established himself as a leading exponent of Latin jazz.
        When he moved to Los Angeles, Mr. McKibbon continued to perform in nightclubs, but was soon making most of his money in studios. He worked in the staff orchestras of CBS and NBC, on film soundtracks, and on albums by Frank Sinatra, Randy Newman and many others. In 1989 he returned to New York to play in the orchestra of the Broadway revue ''Black and Blue.''
        His survivors include his daughter, Allison, and his sister, Geraldine.
        In 1999, at the age of 80, Mr. McKibbon, the quintessential sideman, finally recorded his first album as a leader. Five years later, he recorded his second.
        Correction:  August 8, 2005, Monday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Al McKibbon, a bassist who anchored some of the leading jazz bands of the 1940's and 1950's, misstated the date of his death. It was July 29, not last Friday.
      