
        Julius Caruso, one of the earliest of Manhattan's celebrity hairstylists, who appeared as a consultant at beauty pageants and in television commercials, died on Tuesday at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 77.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said.
        Mr. Caruso and his brother, Enrico, who also operated a famous salon and who died in 2004, were trained as stylists by their father, Michael Caruso, an Italian immigrant who came to New York as a stowaway and found a job sweeping a barbershop floor in exchange for a place to sleep. He eventually opened a salon in the Tudor City complex, where his sons began working as teenagers.
        For more than 30 years, Julius Caruso owned a salon at 72 East 55th Street, across Park Avenue from Enrico Caruso's shop at 110 East 55th Street, and the brothers had rosters of famous clients, including Ann Sheridan, Marilyn Monroe, Joan Rivers, Hugh Downs and members of the Ford, Rockefeller and Vanderbilt families, said Julius's wife, Aurora.
        ''Marilyn Monroe used to come into the beauty salon,'' Mr. Caruso's daughter, Aurora Galanti. recalled''My father would spend hours putting her hair in rollers and fixing her hair, and then she would put her hands in her hair and just mess it up as much as she could. My father would say, 'I just spent two hours trying to get her to look like a lady.'''
        Julius Caruso also worked for Michael of the Waldorf in the Waldorf-Astoria before opening his business in 1952 in a town house on East 55th Street. He remained there until 1986, then moved to the Carlton House at 22 East 62nd Street. The salon will continue to operate there.
        Mr. Caruso also had a salon for 25 years in Southampton, N.Y., where he met many of his celebrity clients. He was hired as a consultant for Procter & Gamble and Bristol Meyers, promoting their products in advertisements, and for many years was the spokesman for Lilt, a home permanent.
        In addition to his wife and daughter Aurora, of Stuart, Fla., Mr. Caruso is survived by another daughter, Aleta DiBenedetto, also of Stuart.
      