
        Gary Belkin, a comedy writer whose credited works included jokes for Sid Caesar, Carol Burnett and the television series ''Car 54, Where Are You?'' and whose ghostwriting included some of the provocative poems intoned by Muhammad Ali, died on July 28 in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was emphysema, his friend Bob Holof said.
        Mr. Belkin was part of the writing team that turned out the variety show ''Caesar's Hour'' in the mid-1950's, a group that included Carl Reiner, Mel Brooks, Neil Simon and Larry Gelbart. He later wrote scripts for Danny Kaye, Frank Sinatra, Anne Bancroft, Doris Day and other performers.
        His uncredited work included captions for cartoons in The New Yorker; poems for a phonograph record released by Cassius Clay, before he changed his name to Muhammad Ali; and speeches delivered by John V. Lindsay when he was running for mayor of New York.
        Gary Belkin was born on April 24, 1926, in the Bronx, where he grew up. In 1945, he left to serve in the Army for two years. When he returned to New York, he began writing material for radio personalities like the popular host Ted Brown. He earned extra money by writing the captions for New Yorker cartoons, which someone else would then draw.
        He moved to Los Angeles after getting the job with Mr. Caesar, who had earlier been host of ''Your Show of Shows'' and was starting ''Caesar's Hour.'' It ran from 1954 to 1957.
        Among Mr. Belkin's many television writing assignments was ''The Carol Burnett Show.'' In his eight years there, he was sometimes credited as lead writer. He wrote for Johnny Carson twice, first for the quiz show ''Do You Trust Your Wife?'' and then for the ''Tonight'' show.
        He won an Emmy for his 1972 PBS sex education program, ''VD Blues,'' which contained humor that prompted the American Medical Association to decline to endorse it.
        In 1962, Columbia Records hired Mr. Belkin to work on an album of poems said to be written by Ali. Mr. Belkin was listed as producer but said several times that he had actually written many of the poems, which were intended to be part of the buildup to the fight with Sonny Liston in 1964.
        On the record, Ali told listeners to expect ''a total eclipse of Sonny'' and wrote, ''Here I predict Mr. Liston's total dismemberment, I'll hit him so hard he'll wonder where October and November went.''
        George Plimpton, who knew Ali and wrote about him, and David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker who published a biography of Ali in 1998, publicly questioned how many of the poems Mr. Belkin wrote. Mr. Plimpton said he had witnessed Ali write a poem.
        In an interview yesterday, Mr. Remnick said, ''There's no doubt that Ali wrote a great deal of what he recited.''
        Mr. Belkin, in an interview with The New York Press earlier this year, said: ''The idea was that I would write 60 percent of the album, but I ended up writing the whole thing. My poems pushed his image a little further. It wasn't 'I am the prettiest,' but more about 'I am the greatest.'''
        In 1978 Ali's managers hired Mr. Belkin to help write a broadcast for a retirement party for Ali, Mr. Belkin said. In a reissue of the album in 1999, Mr. Belkin was listed as a co-writer.
        In his later years, Mr. Belkin, who had no immediate survivors, was a mentor to young comedians. He also supplied humor to publications. His ''Beverly Hills Philosophy'' was printed in The Los Angeles Times in 1994. ''If you give a man a fish,'' one joke went, ''also give him a lemon wedge and basil.''
      