
        Abraham S. Goldstein, a former dean of Yale Law School, died on Saturday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 80.
        His death was announced by Yale University, where he had taken emeritus status at the end of the academic year. It said the cause was a heart attack.
        An expert in criminal law and procedure, Professor Goldstein gained a reputation as a trial lawyer in Washington before he joined the Yale faculty in 1956. He became the 11th dean of the law school in 1970 but returned to teaching full time in 1975, when he was named a Sterling professor.
        He wrote ''The Insanity Defense'' (Yale University Press, 1967), a comprehensive analysis of its history and the controversies about it. He also wrote ''The Passive Judiciary: Prosecutorial Discretion and the Guilty Plea'' (Louisiana State University Press, 1981) and, with Leonard Orland, ''Criminal Procedure'' (Little, Brown, 1974).
        Abraham Samuel Goldstein, a son of immigrants from Ukraine, was born in Manhattan on the Lower East Side. He attended high school in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and enrolled at City College.
        In World War II, he served as an Army demolition man and military policeman before transferring into a military intelligence unit. After graduating from City College with a degree in economics in 1946, he entered Yale Law School and received his L.L.B. in 1949. He clerked for Judge David L. Bazelon of the United States Court of Appeals in Washington and worked as a civil and criminal litigator and partner in a Washington firm, Donohue & Kaufmann, before he returned to teach at Yale.
        Over the years he sat on Connecticut state boards and commissions and bar association panels. He was a visiting professor at Cambridge and the University of Tel Aviv, among others.
        Professor Goldstein is survived by his second wife, Sarah Poleyeff Goldstein, whom he married in 1995; a son, William I., of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Marianne Goldstein of Peoria, Ariz.; a brother, Sidney, of Washington; three stepdaughters, Laura Schafer of North Brunswick, N.J., Sylvia Schafer of Willimantic, Conn., and Amy Schafer Boger of Concord, Mass.; and six grandchildren. His first wife, Ruth Tessler Goldstein, died in 1989 after 41 years of marriage.
      