
        Melvin Howard Osterman, a founding partner of the Albany law firm Whiteman Osterman & Hanna and an architect of important state labor legislation, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Delmar, N.Y. He was 70.
        The cause was a severe reaction to insect stings he received while gardening, according to an announcement by the firm, which he helped establish in 1975.
        As a young labor lawyer, Mr. Osterman joined Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's legal staff in 1962. After three years as an assistant counsel in the governor's office, he became counsel to the governor's Committee on Employee Relations, known as the Taylor Committee after its chairman, George W. Taylor. The committee drafted the 1967 law, popularly known as the Taylor Law, that gave public employees collective bargaining rights while forbidding them to strike and setting up graduated penalties for job actions.
        He then organized the governor's Office of Employee Relations and directed it from 1968 to 1972. In that period, the state's employees were assigned bargaining units that negotiated the first collective agreements with the state government.
        A native New Yorker, Melvin Osterman graduated in 1955 from Cornell University, where he received his law degree two years later. He clerked for Justice Charles D. Breitel, later the chief judge, before going into private practice in New York City.
        He formed Whiteman Osterman & Hanna with two colleagues from government service and saw it grow into the region's largest law firm. His own specialties were labor and employment law, education law and municipal bonds.
        Mr. Osterman's first marriage, to the former Elaine Pevar, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Norma G. Meacham, a partner in Whiteman Osterman & Hanna; three sons, Andrew, of Colorado Springs; Lawrence, of Woodinville, Wash.; and Jeffrey, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; two daughters, Laura, of Washington; and Edith, of Albany; and two grandchildren.
      