
        Aleksandr Gomelsky, the patriarch of Soviet basketball and coach of the Soviet men's team that won the 1988 Olympic gold medal, died Tuesday at a hospital in Moscow. He was 77. His death was announced by the Central Army basketball club of Moscow, which he coached from 1966 to 1988. Gomelsky had been treated for cancer.
        With Gomelsky as the head basketball coach, the Soviet men won medals in four Olympics, including silver in 1964 and bronze in 1968 and 1980.
        Gomelsky put together the team that won the gold medal at the 1972 Munich Olympics, beating the United States by 51-50 in the final after the referees had twice allowed controversial replays in the last three seconds. He did not coach that team, having lost his job for a previous loss to Yugoslavia, but the squad employed his system of screens and movement.
        That was the first Olympic basketball loss ever by the United States. The Americans won their next 21 games in the Olympics until the Soviet team upset them in the 1988 semifinals en route to the gold medal.
        Sarunas Marciulionis, one of the Soviet players in 1988, told The New York Times Magazine the next year that Gomelsky knew his players were afraid of the Americans. He said the coach spent three days before the game bucking up his players one by one.
        ''He told us the American players are emotional, but also very fragile,'' Marciulionis said. ''We must try to stop their fast break, but at all cost not let them finish it with a dunk. Because when they start dunking they play as if they have wings instead of arms.''
        In those Olympics, the Americans used college players rather than professionals. Afterward, Gomelsky told the Americans, ''Next time, bring Magic Johnson, not magic defense.''
        Gomelsky was born Jan. 18, 1928, in Kronstadt, near Leningrad. At 5 feet 5 inches, he was an outstanding player, and at 21 he became a full-time coach. Euroleague Basketball quoted him as saying years later: ''In many things, we were self-taught because there were few books at that time. Clinics for coaches were unimaginable things. TV had just been born. But we were willing to learn and we progressed quickly.''
        Between 1958 and 1988, he was the Soviet national team coach for 22 seasons. He coached Soviet teams to world championships in 1967 and 1982. In all, he coached more than 2,600 games. In 1995, he was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass.
        He is survived by his wife, Tatyana, and four sons.
        ''Gomelsky was a great tactician and strategist,'' the Russian sports minister, Vyacheslav Fetisov, who was captain of the Soviet hockey teams in the 1970's and 80's, told Bloomberg News. ''He was also a great psychologist. As a coach, he was ahead of his time.''
      