
        Clarence C. Newcomer, who as a federal judge in Philadelphia for more than three decades won a reputation for no-nonsense jurisprudence in hundreds of cases ranging from civil rights to organized crime to baseball cards, died Monday at his home in Stone Harbor, N.J., near Cape May. He was 82.
        The cause was melanoma, his family told The Associated Press.
        Judge Newcomer presided over a fiercely contested trial in which the City of Philadelphia was found liable this year for $12.8 million in damages to residents forced from their homes by a 1985 fire touched off when the police dropped a bomb on a house occupied by the radical group MOVE.
        But that was hardly the first of his cases to draw vast attention in eastern Pennsylvania, and sometimes beyond.
        In 1974, he stripped William Stinson of a seat in the Pennsylvania Senate because of evidence that Mr. Stinson had stolen votes, and declared Bruce Marks the winner, tipping control of the Senate to Republicans.
        In 1975, he ordered girls admitted to Central High School in Philadelphia. That order was reversed on appeal, though girls were ultimately admitted to the school in 1983.
        In 1980, he ended Topps Chewing Gum's exclusive right to sell baseball cards, allowing the Fleer Corporation to compete in that lucrative market.
        In 1993, he ruled that a law firm's refusal to promote a female associate to partner violated civil rights law, and in 1997 determined that states could not discriminate against new residents by paying them lower welfare benefits than longtime residents.
        Clarence Charles Newcomer was born on Jan. 18, 1923, in the Lancaster County town of Mount Joy, Pa. He graduated from Franklin and Marshall College, served as a naval officer in World War II, then graduated from the Dickinson School of Law.
        After pursuing a private law practice, he became a Lancaster County prosecutor and rose to district attorney. He had returned to private practice when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him to the bench in 1971. He assumed senior status in 1988.
        Judge Newcomer gained particularly wide attention in 1985 when he rebuked the Philadelphia police for their wholesale roundup of Spanish-speaking people after the killing of an officer. In a statement from the bench, he called the activity ''disgraceful'' and ''unlawful,'' and said the episode ''sadly brought to mind'' a line from the movie ''Casablanca'': ''Major Strasser has been shot. Round up the usual suspects.''
        Judge Newcomer is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Jane Martin; two daughters; four grandchildren; and a sister.
        Correction:  August 26, 2005, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Clarence Newcomer, a long-serving federal judge in Pennsylvania, misstated the date of a case in which he held that a Pennsylvania Senate election had been stolen; it was decided in 1994, not 1974.
      