
        James H. Scheuer, a fiercely liberal New York congressman who for 13 terms represented districts covering parts of the Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn and Nassau County as part of a post-World War II generation of political reformers, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 85.
        The cause was heart and kidney failure, said his wife, Emily Scheuer.
        A multimillionaire real estate developer and lawyer, Mr. Scheuer made political waves in the 1964 election when he and another reform Democrat, Jonathan B. Bingham, ousted incumbent congressmen who were part of the Bronx political machine, James C. Healey and Charles A. Buckley, respectively.
        Mr. Scheuer and Mr. Bingham were part of a group of reform Democrats that included Robert M. Morgenthau, Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. and Robert F. Wagner Jr.
        But it took Mr. Scheuer (pronounced SHOY-er) several attempts before he was successful in a campaign against the city's entrenched patronage system.
        Mr. Scheuer arrived in Congress with a belief that government had an important role in improving Americans' lives. This philosophy shaped his legislative agenda around programs that have become part of the social landscape: Head Start for early education, environmental protection and automotive safety.
        ''He was an unreconstructed liberal,'' said George Kopp, Mr. Scheuer's former staff director.
        Even as redistricting forced him to switch Congressional districts twice and contributed to a loss, he consistently pushed his issues. He played a key role in protecting the Environmental Protection Agency's regulatory powers during the Reagan administration. As chairman of the consumer protection and finance subcommittee, he also fought for seat belts and air bags against fierce resistance from automakers.
        Mr. Scheuer also held that government should step out of individuals' bedrooms. He introduced a bill to repeal laws limiting the trade of contraceptives and argued that abortion was a private and not a policy matter. He once had a hundred posters printed up that said, ''Someday the decision to have children will be between you, your spouse and your congressman.'' The photograph showed a couple sitting in their bed with Mr. Scheuer, dressed in a suit, sandwiched between them.
        Mr. Scheuer lost re-election in 1972 after serving four terms in the 21st Congressional District, in the Bronx, when redistricting forced him to run against another incumbent congressman. He then switched to the 11th district in Queens, where he won the 1974 election and three more, and finally the redistricted 8th District, which covered part of Queens and Nassau County, where he served his final five terms.
        Charles B. Rangel, the congressman and a close friend, once asked why a multimillionaire would fight so hard to come back and stay in the Congress when he did not need the income. ''He said there was no amount of money that could compensate for the psychic income of public service,'' Mr. Rangel said.
        Mr. Scheuer announced that he would not be running for re-election in 1992, when another population change cost New York State three Congressional seats and pushed many of incumbents into retirement.
        President Clinton then appointed Mr. Scheuer to be the United States director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, founded to make loans to Eastern European and Asian countries and thus counter Communist influence.
        James Haas Scheuer was born on Feb. 6, 1920, in his parents' home in Manhattan. His father was an investor. He received his bachelor's degree from Swarthmore College in 1942, a master's degree from Harvard Business School in 1943 and a law degree from Columbia Law School in 1948.
        Mr. Scheuer, who spoke seven languages, played harmonica in a vaudeville act as a child and formed a three-man harmonica group called the Harmonicats along with the speaker of the House, Jim Wright.
        He met his future wife, Emily Malino, when she was 17 and he was 22 and about to become a flight instructor in World War II. They married in 1948.
        He contracted polio during their honeymoon in Italy and spent a year recovering at the Warm Springs Foundation in Georgia. He used a cane for the rest of his life.
        Before moving into public office, Mr. Scheuer was president of the Renewal and Development Corporation of New York City. He sponsored urban renewal projects and middle-incoming housing developments in cities including Washington, Cleveland, St. Louis, Sacramento and San Francisco.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Laura Scheuer and Elizabeth Scheuer, both of New York; two sons, James Scheuer Jr., of New York, and John Scheuer, of Nyack, N.Y.; and ten grandchildren.
      