
        Elwood Perry, a soft-spoken Southerner who translated his almost preternatural ability to catch fish into a finely tuned philosophy, a lucrative business and a personal legend as outsized as any fish story, died on Aug. 12 at his home in Taylorsville, N.C. He was 90.
        His family said in a statement announcing his death that he had been in declining health, but did not give a cause.
        Mr. Perry was known to three generations of fishermen as Buck, with his name forever linked to the lure he patented in 1946, the Spoonplug. He sold millions of the lures, which meld two pieces of traditional tackle, the spoon and the plug.
        Buck Perry said they looked like ''a shoehorn that's been tromped on by a horse.''
        Mr. Perry's fishing system was called Spoonplugging, but Spoonplugs were not really the most important part of it. His concern was the essence of fishing: the migration of fish, underwater topography, weather, water conditions and much more; ''structure fishing,'' he called it.
        His own piscatorial genius was indisputable. When the golfer Bobby Jones wanted to improve his fishing, he came to Mr. Perry.
        On June 2, 1932, when he was a teenager, he used a Creek Chub Wiggle Fish, the only store-bought plug he owned, to catch a largemouth bass of 22 pounds, 4 ounces, still the world record. His whole fishing outfit that day cost $1.33.
        On July 24, 1954, Mr. Perry, before dozens of witnesses, cast a silver Spoonplug 30 times and landed 30 bass, an informal record.
        ''I believe I could have caught 100,'' he told reporters.
        Mr. Perry discovered profound fishing truths, including the advisability of dragging a lure -- be it Spoonplug, jig or plastic worm -- so that it bounces on the bottom.
        ''A bumping lure is often the only presentation that will produce fish,'' Mr. Perry said in an interview with boats.com in 1997. ''A free-swimming lure can pass within inches of a school and the fish will not strike.''
        In 2000, In-Fisherman magazine named Mr. Perry, a member of the Freshwater Fishing Hall of Fame, one of the nation's 25 most influential anglers. In 1984, George Pazik, publisher of Fishing Facts magazine, said Mr. Perry began the ''whole modern era of freshwater fishing.''
        Elwood Lake Perry was born on July 10, 1915, in Hickory, N.C. Thirteen years later, in a boat on nearby Lake James, he informed his father, a confident angler, that the two of them were being less than brainy.
        ''We're not only fishing wrong, we're fishing in the wrong place,'' Mr. Perry said, according to an interview in The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in 2004. His father threatened to throw him in the lake.
        The youth's theory was that big fish dwell in deeper water, but occasionally move to shallower depths, following regular routes, so successful anglers fish at the right place in the right depth at the right time. This idea was the foundation of all his future research and success.
        After earning a degree in physics and mathematics from Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory, N.C., Mr. Perry taught and coached at Hickory High School. He then studied engineering at North Carolina State University, leaving for the Army during World War II.
        After briefly working in a family business, he started making Spoonplugs. Business lagged, despite stunts like dousing a Spoonplug in gasoline, considered repugnant to fish, then promptly catching one.
        In 1957, he visited a supposedly fished-out lake with two Chicago writers. They marveled in print over his success, and Spoonplugs took off.
        At first, Mr. Perry made other things in addition to lures, including golf clubs and sleeping bags. But after a fire at his plant, he stuck to Spoonplugs, which today come in seven sizes and 35 colors.
        The differing weights mean the lures sink to different depths, so a fisherman needs several to be sure he is on the all-important bottom. In 1973, Mr. Perry published ''Spoonplugging: Your Guide to Lunker Catches,'' and in 1981, a nine-volume home study series.
        Spoonplugs and much more are still commercially available, and understandably popular.
        Mr. Perry is survived by his wife of 22 years, Geraldine Jeri Stowe Petty; son, G. Reid, of Hudson, N.C.; stepsons Don, John and Ron Wallace, all of Indiana; stepdaughters Jane Townsend, of Maine, and Susan Winkler, of Taylorsville; 24 grandchildren; and 9 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Perry's first wife, Marjorie Bud Seltzer Perry, died in 1978 after 39 years of marriage. An article in The Chattanooga Free Press in 1995 recalled her perhaps good-natured complaints about wives who were dragged along on fishing trips. She said she just knew what their husbands were thinking:
        ''How did I ever get married to a woman who can be so selfish as to complain that she has no respite from cooking and washing dishes if we take our vacation at this fishing paradise?''
        Correction:  August 30, 2005, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about Elwood L. Perry, a fisherman and the inventor of the Spoonplug lure, attributed a distinction to him erroneously. It was George W. Perry, not Elwood Perry, who caught a largemouth bass of 22 pounds 4 ounces -- a world record -- on June 2, 1932.
      