
        Duncan R. Elder, a leading advocate of low-cost housing, particularly for the elderly, and a former president of Phipps Houses in New York City, one of the country's largest nonprofit housing ventures, died on Aug. 14 at a hospice in East Northport, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        Phipps Houses started in 1905 with an investment in model tenements by the steel magnate Henry Phipps. As the organization's president from 1968 to 1982, Mr. Elder oversaw its conversion from a relatively small foundation into a fully integrated developer and manager of apartments for people with moderate incomes.
        Under Mr. Elder, Phipps Houses added 2,300 apartments in Manhattan and the South Bronx, for a current total of 13,000. It also provided housing for employees of New York Hospital and Rockefeller University.
        A lawyer by training, Mr. Elder became involved with Phipps Houses while he was a partner in DeForest, Elder & Mulreany. After stepping down as president, he was vice chairman and chief executive at Phipps until 1995, and remained a trustee and consultant until two years ago.
        A native of Cranford, N.J., Duncan Robert Elder graduated from Yale University in 1939 and Columbia Law School in 1946. In between, he served on Navy destroyers in the Atlantic and the Pacific in World War II, attaining the rank of captain and eventually commanding a destroyer. He earned two Bronze Stars.
        Mr. Elder was a director of the National Housing Conference and past chairman of the New York Housing Conference. From 1977 to 1996, he was chairman of the Lloyd Harbor Planning Board.
        Over the years he was also associated with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York, serving as its president in the 1970's; the New York Foundation for Senior Citizens; and the Senior Citizens Housing Committee in Huntington. From 1955 to 1993, he was on the board of the Huntington Hospital Association.
        Mr. Elder is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Frances Noyes; two sons, Robert D., of Brunswick, Me., and Alexander N., of Tucson; a daughter, Prof. Sarah M., of Buffalo; and five grandchildren.
      