
        John Michael Montias, an economist who became one of the foremost scholars on the painter Johannes Vermeer and a pioneer in the economics of art, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 76 and lived in New Haven.
        The cause was complications from melanoma, said his son, John-Luke Montias.
        Part of the Annales school of economists and historians, Mr. Montias was among those who, in the early and mid-20th century, promoted a new form of history by replacing the examination of major leaders and events with the microstudy of ordinary people and occurrences.
        Through the scrupulous analysis of common documents ranging from notes and letters to receipts and legal papers, Mr. Montias peeled back the layers in the life of Vermeer, one of his favorite artists -- and one of the world's most enigmatic. His work opened the door for a new genre of art history in which artists were analyzed in the context of their societal and economic surroundings and not merely their works.
        ''I think he was important for all of us,'' said Egbert Haverkamp-Begemann, the John Langeloth Loeb professor emeritus at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts. ''When he started this in the 1960's and 70's, there was no one who approached the history of art from that point of view. His work was pioneering -- accurate, extremely convincing, with many novel insights. What was not considered to be relevant to the work of art in the past, we all have subsequently used.''
        Mr. Montias's research was a primary source for Tracy Chevalier's 2000 novel ''Girl With a Pearl Earring,'' about Vermeer's relationship with the model for his iconic work, and for the 2003 film adaptation.
        Mr. Montias began teaching at Yale University in the late 50's, where he specialized in the economic systems of the Soviet bloc during the 1960's and 70's and served as a consultant to high-ranking government officials. His analysis of the economies of Eastern European countries at times drew suspicion, perhaps never more so than during his visits to Czechoslovakia and Hungary from 1963 to 1965; he was shadowed and eventually expelled from Hungary on suspicion of espionage. But if his work was economics, his passion was art, particularly that of the 16th- and 17th-century Netherlands.
        ''I came to Vermeer 'sideways,''' he said in a 2003 interview for the Essential Vermeer Web site (www.essentialvermeer.20m.com), explaining the genesis of his second career. Having won a summer grant in 1975 to write a comparative study of Dutch art guilds, he traveled to Delft, where he discovered that no in-depth study of a guild existed.
        ''In the course of this research, I realized that, contrary to my expectations, previous scholarship on Vermeer's life had not exhausted the subject,'' he said.
        And so began his quest to uncover the life of one of the world's most mysterious artists, with Mr. Montias unearthing and poring over 454 documents related to Vermeer and his family that lay, long undisturbed, in the archives of no fewer than 17 Dutch and Belgian cities.
        In 1989 he published ''Vermeer and His Milieu: A Web of Social History'' (Princeton University Press), in which he revealed secrets of Vermeer's life: that Vermeer's grandfather was a convicted counterfeiter; that his grandmother ran illegal lotteries; and that the artist himself fathered 13 children and died at the age of 43, destitute.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, the art critic John Russell wrote that Mr. Montias had previously ''proved that there is a great deal more to art history than shuffling slides in a library.''
        ''His new book does not crack the code of Vermeer's personality, let alone the code of his inner experience,'' the review continued. ''But as detective work, and as a portrait of an era, it ranks high.''
        In fact, Mr. Montias's midlife obsession had adolescent roots. Born on Oct. 3, 1928, in Paris, he was sent in 1940, alone and by ship, by his Jewish parents to the safety of the United States -- and an Episcopalian baptism -- just as the Germans were preparing to invade France. He boarded at the Nichols School in Buffalo, where as a 14-year-old volunteer in the small library of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, he came across Wilhelm Bode's gilt-edged folio volume of Rembrandt and was immediately captivated.
        Mr. Montias's curiosity resurfaced in 1954 when, as a Ph.D. candidate in the economics department at Columbia University, he considered writing his dissertation on the prices of Dutch paintings at auction. He failed to get financial support for his project, perhaps thought frivolous during the cold war.
        Things changed when Mr. Montias met Mr. Begemann in the mid-1960's, when they were both at Yale. A specialist in Dutch and Flemish art, Mr. Begemann gave Mr. Montias his first lessons in connoisseurship, and soon after he began to study the genre's history methodically. His first project in the field -- the 1975 summer grant -- required Mr. Montias, already a gifted linguist, not only to learn modern Dutch but also to read 17th-century manuscript sources in old Gothic script.
        ''He decided to attack the archives in Delft, knowing that they had been scoured for information on Vermeer,'' recalled Otto Naumann, a Manhattan art dealer who studied under Mr. Montias. ''With the confidence that only a true genius can posses, he decided that he could do better, without first learning Dutch.''
        It took Mr. Montias one week to find an unpublished document that mentioned Vermeer and but another to decipher it, Mr. Naumann said.
        Mr. Montias published three more books about the 17th-century Dutch art market: ''Artists, Dealers, Consumers: On the Social World of Art'' (Hilversum: Verloren, 1994); ''Public and Private Spaces: Works of Art in 17th-Century Dutch Houses'' (Zwolle, 2000), with John Loughman; and ''Art at Auction in 17th-Century Amsterdam'' (Amsterdam University Press, 2003).
        In addition to his son, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Marie, of New Haven, and his mother, Giselle de la Maisoneuve, of Paris.
      