
        Little Milton, a bluesman with a gritty voice and a sensuous guitar style who had hits throughout the 1960's and 70's, died yesterday in a hospital in Memphis. He was 71 and lived in Las Vegas and Memphis.
        He died a week after suffering a stroke that left him in a coma, said Burton Doss, a spokesman for his record label, Malaco.
        Born James Milton Campbell on Sept. 7, 1934, in Inverness, Miss., a Delta town less than 10 miles from Indianola, where B.B. King had been born nine years earlier, Little Milton was often compared by critics to both Mr. King and Bobby Blue Bland, the exemplars of elegant, urbane blues. He took his nickname to distinguish himself from his father, Big Milton Campbell, who was also a musician.
        With chugging rhythms and soaring vocal and guitar tones, his style combined elements of R&B, blues and soul. He learned to play guitar by watching local musicians in Mississippi and listening to the radio, and over his five-decade career his music spanned a wide stretch of blues history.
        Early in his career he was discovered by Ike Turner, who recommended him to Sam Phillips of Sun Records, the home of Elvis Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis and Johnny Cash. His recordings for Sun did not become hits, but he found success on a series of labels from the mid-50's into the 70's.
        His 1958 song ''I'm a Lonely Man,'' recorded for Bobbin -- a label he founded with Bob Lyons, a disc jockey -- was an early hit, and ''We're Gonna Make It,'' one of many songs he recorded for Checker during the 60's, became a No. 1 R&B hit in 1965. Among his other successful records for Checker, a subsidiary of the famous Chess label, were ''Who's Cheating Who,'' ''Feel So Bad'' and ''Grits Ain't Groceries.''
        In 1971 he signed with Stax, where he expanded his sound with strings and horns. His records for Stax included ''Walking the Back Streets and Cryin''' and ''That's What Love Will Make You Do,'' and he appeared at the label's ''Wattstax'' concert in Los Angeles in 1972. He stayed with Stax until it went bankrupt in 1976. Since 1984 he had recorded more than a dozen albums for the Malaco label, based in Jackson, Miss.
        Though Little Milton never enjoyed the kind of crossover success that Mr. King or Mr. Bland had, he remained a strong concert draw. He headlined a concert cruise in the Caribbean each year. His album ''Welcome to Little Milton,'' which featured duets with Lucinda Williams, Keb' Mo', Peter Wolf, Dave Alvin, G. Love and others, was nominated for a Grammy Award in 2000 for best contemporary blues album.
        Among his survivors are his wife, Pat Campbell.
      