
        Walter J. McNerney, who oversaw the integration of Blue Cross and Blue Shield and gave shape to the Congressional debate leading to Medicare and Medicaid, died on July 29 at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 80.
        His death was announced by Northwestern University, where he retired in 1999 as Herman Smith professor emeritus of health policy at the university's Kellogg School of Management. He joined the faculty in 1982 and for many years taught the advanced health policy course at Kellogg, the graduate business school.
        An experienced hospital administrator, Mr. McNerney was named president of Blue Cross in 1961 and promptly joined the American Hospital Association in calling for a nationwide single-payer benefit plan for older Americans.
        The formula he proposed prescribed benefits at uniform rates and ''with no restrictions because of pre-existing conditions and no waiting periods.'' At the time, even the basic concept faced strong political opposition and, not least, the opposition of organized medicine.
        Because the Blue Cross system had the strongest voice in health insurance, Mr. McNerney's lobbying carried extra weight in Congressional hearings and bargaining sessions at which he urged leaders to assume health care costs for the elderly.
        In ''The Blues,'' a 1997 history of Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the authors Robert Cunningham III and Robert M. Cunningham Jr. recalled that Medicare came about over more than a decade of maneuvering ''by government officials, doctors, hospital people, labor leaders, business executives, the commercial insurance industry and the Blues.''
        ''McNerney, very much in the center of the action,'' the authors wrote, ''discovered that a pragmatic political philosophy cut across the partisan boundaries, separating participants in the debate.''
        The Democratic sweep of the 1964 elections swelled the ranks of advocates for care of the elderly and won over crucial earlier doubters like Wilbur Mills, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and a co-author of the 1960 Kerr-Mills bill, which created a needs-based medical safety net for the aged poor.
        With the number of supporters rising in the Senate, Mr. McNerney and Wilbur J. Cohen, an architect of Social Security in the New Deal administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, furnished the blueprints that Medicare supporters used to carry the day.
        After the adoption of Medicare and Medicaid under President Lyndon B. Johnson, Mr. McNerney was chairman of the Task Force on Medicaid in the Nixon administration. The panel's report called for sweeping changes in Medicaid, the system for the uninsured poor of all ages, particularly in its federal-state apportionment of costs and responsibilities, issues that remain contentious to this day.
        Mr. McNerney's expertise on such matters had come to the fore nationally with a study he directed while heading the hospital administration program at the University of Michigan School of Business Administration. The three-year project, begun in 1957, documented how the uninsured and underinsured elderly and poor fared in this country when illness struck them.
        Issued under the aegis of the American Hospital Association, the report went well beyond what the Kennedy-Johnson administration had envisioned under an expanded Social Security system. It became a route map for the government insurance programs of the 1960's.
        Walter James McNerney was born in New Haven on June 8, 1925, and graduated from Yale in 1947, when he became an instructor in advanced mathematics at Hopkins School in New Haven. He received a master's in hospital administration at the University of Minnesota in 1950.
        He held administrative positions at hospitals in Providence, R.I., and Pittsburgh before he joined the faculty at the University of Michigan in 1955 to head the business school's program in hospital administration. He was named a full professor in 1958.
        Mr. McNerney was president of the Blue Cross Association of nonprofit medical insurance plans from 1961 to 1977, when it merged with the Blue Shield Association, its counterpart in hospital insurance. Both national associations had their roots in the 1940's as coordinating bodies for a countrywide membership of private, voluntary, prepaid insurance plans.
        He became president and chief executive officer of the combined Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and led it through 1981, just before resuming his academic career at Northwestern.
        Mr. McNerney is survived by his wife of 58 years, Shirley Ann Hamilton McNerney; four sons, Walter J. Jr., of Chicago, who became chief executive of Boeing last month, Peter H., of Minneapolis, the Rev. Daniel M., of Winnetka, and Richard H., of Atlanta; a daughter, Jennifer Horstkotte of Winnetka; and 22 grandchildren.
      