
        Keter Betts, a veteran jazz bassist who spent more than two decades accompanying Ella Fitzgerald and played a role in bringing the bossa nova to the United States, died on Aug. 6 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77.
        His death was confirmed by McGuire Funeral Services in Washington, which did not specify the cause.
        Mr. Betts, best known for his work with singers, always said that he was more interested in providing support for other performers than in being in the spotlight himself; he did not record an album as a leader until he was almost 70.
        His association with Fitzgerald began in the mid-1960's, became full time in 1968 and continued until her retirement in 1993. Among the other singers he backed were Dinah Washington and Joe Williams. He also worked frequently with the pianist Tommy Flanagan, both in support of Fitzgerald and in a trio under Flanagan's name, and performed or recorded with Cannonball Adderley, Woody Herman and many others.
        While on an extended South American tour with the guitarist Charlie Byrd in 1961, Mr. Betts first heard the music of João Gilberto, Antonio Carlos Jobim and other bossa nova pioneers in Brazil. Back in the United States, the two musicians joined forces with the saxophonist Stan Getz the next year on the album ''Jazz Samba,'' released under the joint leadership of Getz and Byrd, which helped start the worldwide bossa nova phenomenon.
        William Thomas Betts was born in Port Chester, N.Y., on July 22, 1928, and played drums before switching to bass as a teenager. His first job of note was with the popular rhythm-and-blues saxophonist Earl Bostic in 1949.
        In his later years Mr. Betts was active in jazz education in the Washington area, where he spent most of his life, and also performed frequently on jazz cruises.
        Mr. Betts, a widower, is survived by three sons, William Jr., of Washington, Derek, of Los Angeles, and Jon, of Olney, Md.; two daughters, Jacquelyn and Jennifer, both of Silver Spring; and four grandchildren.
      