
        Ted Croner, whose rigorously blurry photographs of New York at night in the 1940's epitomized the film noir energy of a city that never sleeps, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 82.
        He died of natural causes, said Margit Erb of the Howard Greenberg Gallery, which represents him.
        Mr. Croner belonged to what the curator Jane Livingston called the New York School of photography, which included Lisette Model, Diane Arbus, Richard Avedon, Robert Frank and William Klein. For the cover of her 1992 book ''The New York School Photographs 1936-1963,'' Ms. Livingston chose a picture by Mr. Croner. The picture, ''New York at Night, 1948'' shows a Manhattan skyline reduced to abstract slashes of white light among black tall buildings against a gun-metal gray sky. Such images, Ms. Livingston wrote, ''most quintessentially define the New York School.''
        Mr. Croner's best-known work is ''Taxi, New York Night, 1947-48,'' taken while he was a student at Alexei Brodovitch's legendary ''design laboratory.'' In producing this dazzling, bold blur of an image, Mr. Croner took a leaf from his teacher's book and went a few steps further. In 1945 Brodovitch had created a book of photographs, ''Ballet,'' which in its styleless style -- all blur and unorthodox angles -- captured the evanescent, elegant nature of dance.
        According to Mr. Croner, Brodovitch asked him to take 12 to 15 photos of the city at night for a Strawbridge & Clothier department store display. Mr. Croner accepted the assignment, even though the $100 budget would barely cover the cost of film and processing.
        ''As things turned out,'' Mr. Croner said, ''it was one of my greater moments, not only as a photographer but also as perhaps the most important positive step in my career as a commercial photographer.''
        Mr. Croner was born in Baltimore on Dec. 5, 1922, and grew up in Charlotte, N.C. His interest in photography began in high school. In World War II he worked as an aerial photographer with the United States Air Corps in the South Pacific. After the war, on a ski trip in Stowe, Vt., Mr. Croner met Fernand Fonssagrives, a fashion photographer, who urged him to go to New York and work in his field. In 1946 Mr. Croner and Bill Helburn, another former Air Corps photographer, used their G.I. Bill aid, for veterans starting their own businesses, to open a small studio in Manhattan.
        At Fonssagrives's recommendation, Mr. Croner enrolled in Brodovitch's photography class at the New School in 1947. Even as he accepted commercial work at magazines like Harper's Bazaar and Vogue, Mr. Croner pursued his own photography, producing vigorously experimental, cinematic images of cafeterias, solitary diners and the city after dark.
        In 1948 his work appeared in two exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art in New York: ''In and Out of Focus'' and ''Four Photographers.'' The other photographers in ''Four Photographers'' were Bill Brandt, Harry Callahan and Model. Other exhibitions of Mr. Croner's work followed over the years but interest in his photographs waned.
        In 1991 Ms. Livingston's book ''The New York School of Photographs'' did much to revive interest in his work. The Howard Greenberg Gallery gave him a solo exhibition in 1995, and the Whitney Museum included his work in its 1999 exhibition ''American Century Part II.''
        Mr. Croner is survived by his daughter, Catherine Croner, of New York City, and a brother, Stanley, of Manassas, Va.
        In recent decades Mr. Croner worked as a commercial photographer for corporations like the Chase Manhattan Bank and Coca-Cola. He is noted for the black-and-white work he did in the 40's and 50's. A photographer was lucky, he told Ms. Erb, if he produced just 10 great images.
      