
        Philip J. Klass, an electrical engineer and aviation editor who earned the nickname Sherlock Holmes of U.F.O.'s for his assiduous, acidic debunking of flying saucers and those who claim to see them, died Tuesday at his home in Merritt Island, Fla.
        The cause was prostate cancer, Rosanne Klass, his daughter, said. He was 85.
        Mr. Klass was for many years a top editor at Aviation Week & Space Technology magazine, where he wrote about satellite communications, lasers, missile defense systems and arms control. But he became known to a wider audience as a leading critic of the ever-growing number of Americans who are convinced that alien beings have visited Earth and taken at least a few lucky, or quite unlucky, people for a spin in space.
        Mr. Klass applied careful, reasoned analysis to what is often a very emotional topic, as he repeatedly found explanations for saucer sightings in natural phenomena and manmade objects. He used details like the typefaces on documents to question the veracity of what some contended were deliberately covered-up government documents.
        At a time when the cohort of people who have reported being kidnapped by aliens is growing, Mr. Klass suggested that improper use of hypnosis might be a good explanation. In his 1989 book, ''UFO Abductions: A Dangerous Game,'' he lamented that some people ''will needlessly bear mental scars for the rest of their lives'' because, he said, they have succumbed to ''fantasies'' of alien abduction.
        He wrote seven books on U.F.O.'s, appeared on many television shows and personally fielded a half-dozen phone calls a day on the subject.
        His answers could be as specific as pointing to the unusual brightness of Mars and Jupiter in 1987 to explain a Japanese pilot's report of a flying saucer, and as general as his observation that people taken by aliens have never reported returning with a souvenir.
        Mr. Klass could rankle people who believe in U.F.O.'s, some of whom called him ''a disinformation agent,'' and irritate others who at least do not disbelieve. A notice about his death on the Web site of UFO Magazine referred to his ''logically untenable stands on issues where even the facts were not in his favor.''
        Philip Julian Klass was born in Des Moines on Nov. 8, 1919, and grew up in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He earned a degree in electrical engineering from Iowa State University and got a job with General Electric, where he worked on the development of electronics for aviation during World War II.
        In 1952, Mr. Klass left G.E. to become the first avionics editor of Aviation Week & Space Technology. He retired as senior editor of the magazine in 1986 but remained a contributing editor until 2002.
        For years, he offered a $10,000 prize to anybody who could provide solid scientific evidence of extraterrestrial visitations. It is still unclaimed.
        In addition to his sister, who lives in Manhattan, Mr. Klass is survived by his wife, the former Nadya Gane, and a stepdaughter and stepson.
        In an interview with Skeptic magazine in 1999, Mr. Klass said his ''fondest hope'' was that he would be abducted by aliens. Afterward, he said, he would find time to watch TV, go to movies and read books about something besides flying saucers.
        Correction:  August 13, 2005, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Philip J. Klass, a science writer who debunked reports of flying saucers, misstated his relationship to a survivor, Rosanne Klass. She is his sister, not his daughter.
        Correction:  August 18, 2005, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday about Philip Klass, a science writer who debunked reports of flying saucers, misspelled his wife's name. She is the former Nadya Ganew, not Gane.
      