
        Armand S. Deutsch, a child of privilege who escaped becoming the victim of one of the 20th century's most celebrated crimes and lived on to befriend many of its most celebrated personalities as a movie producer and Hollywood bon vivant, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 92 and lived in Beverly Hills.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Deutsch, a jaunty, elegant figure, was known as Ardie to his friends. Those friends included the composer Frank Loesser, who was his roommate for a time, and Frank Sinatra, with whom he spent many a marathon weekend of whiskey, pasta and golf in Palm Springs. With his wife, Harriet, he was part of a circle of Californians who were among Ronald and Nancy Reagan's closest friends. The Deutsches were two of the few intimates Mrs. Reagan continued to see after her husband's Alzheimer's disease forced his withdrawal from public life.
        Mr. Deutsch was the oldest grandson of Julius Rosenwald, the philanthropist and longtime chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, and he lived his life as a Zelig-like witness to the events and personalities of his day.
        He shared a box at Dodger Stadium with Jack Benny and then with Walter Matthau, traveled the world with the publisher Bennett Cerf, lunched regularly with the director Billy Wilder and had dinner every Christmas for years in the Beverly Hills home of James Stewart.
        Late in life, he recalled these associations and others in magazine and newspaper articles and in a 1991 memoir, ''Me and Bogie (And Other Friends and Acquaintances From a Life in Hollywood and Beyond).''
        But none of his stories was more diverting than that of his childhood brush with death in Chicago as one of the kidnapping and murder targets considered by Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb, the young killers intent on committing a perfect crime. As it happened, the 11-year-old Ardie had an appointment with a dentist on May 21, 1924, and was picked up at school by his family's chauffeur. Instead, the frustrated kidnappers offered a ride to a schoolmate, Bobby Franks, whom they killed.
        As the years went on and the case assumed a legendary air, Mr. Deutsch was sometimes accused of embellishing his role in it for dramatic effect. Loeb did confess to having included Mr. Deutsch on an initial short list of possible victims. But Irving Stone, in his biography of the killers' defense lawyer, Clarence Darrow, wrote that Mr. Deutsch was quickly ruled out because kidnapping him might hurt Sears, where Loeb's own father was a vice president.
        Mr. Deutsch's parents divorced not long after the Franks murder, and he was brought up mostly in New York and Paris, attending more than one college and eventually taking a job as a clerk with the Chicago investment firm of A.G. Becker & Company. His main interest, he conceded, was night life, but he was astute enough to call a family investment adviser and ask if the family did any business with Becker. Told that it did, he asked to have the sales credited to his account and promptly saw his commission rise.
        Eventually, he returned to New York, cafe society and marriage to the Broadway musical comedy actress Benay Venuta, which produced two children but ended in divorce. After service as a Navy public relations officer in World War II, Mr. Deutsch resumed a desultory career on Wall Street.
        At a show business dinner party he met Dore Schary, then the head of production at RKO, who offered him a job as an assistant. Mr. Schary later took him to MGM as a producer.
        Mr. Deutsch's screen credits included ''Ambush,'' a Robert Taylor western; ''The Magnificent Yankee,'' an adaptation of a stage biography of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.; and ''Green Fire,'' an adventure film with Grace Kelly and Stewart Granger.
        He married Harriet Berk Simon, the young widow of the director S. Sylvan Simon, whose two children Mr. Deutsch adopted.
        Besides his wife, to whom he was married for 53 years, Mr. Deutsch is survived by three daughters, Susan Granger of Westport, Conn., and Patricia A. Winter and Deborah Herschel of Manhattan; a son, Stephen Simon of Ashland, Ore.; nine grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
        As the studio system fell apart in the late 1950's, Mr. Deutsch left the movie business, though he served for a time on the Warner Brothers board and he and his wife remained fixtures on the Hollywood social circuit.
        Friendships Mr. Deutsch made in his Hollywood years gave him a front-row view of political power when Ronald Reagan became governor of California and then president. A lifelong Democrat, Mr. Deutsch soon became a Republican and was part of a small group that spent every election night with the Reagans, although he often said he was never part of Mr. Reagan's ''kitchen cabinet.''
      