
        Julian C. Stanley, a psychologist and champion of academically gifted children who helped promote testing nationwide to identify promising students and then lobbied for special programs to challenge them, died on Friday in a hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 87.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Stanley was a professor of psychology at Johns Hopkins University, where he began an early and influential study of mathematically talented children in 1971.
        His research, known as the Study of Mathematically Precocious Youth, was an effort to measure the abilities of select students before they entered high school. Dr. Stanley had the students take college entrance exams and other standardized tests, which he found to be more reliable indicators of ability than tests geared specifically to elementary-level age groups. The study, which continues, is focused on students age 13 or younger who score 700 points or higher of a possible 800 on a part of the SAT, a score achieved by about one student in 10,000 in the younger age bracket.
        Dr. Stanley, who began his career as a high school math teacher, used the results to persuade schools and universities to better accommodate high achievers. In 1979, Johns Hopkins opened its Center for Talented Youth to encourage younger students to pursue college-level courses on weekends and during summer sessions, and other universities soon followed suit. Duke, Northwestern, the University of Denver and other institutions have added similar programs.
        Joyce Van Tassel-Baska, president of the National Association for Gifted Children, said Dr. Stanley's work was a ''pioneering effort'' to establish outside enrichment programs to act in concert with the curriculum of secondary schools.
        ''Julian Stanley cut through the bureaucracy and constraints of schools and gave us a mechanism of program models, a tailored approach for the young and highly gifted,'' said Dr. Van Tassel-Baska, who is also a professor of education at the College of William and Mary.
        In the 1980's, sifting through data from the Hopkins study, Dr. Stanley and another researcher, Camilla P. Benbow, found that math prodigies were more likely to be left-handed and suffer from myopia and allergies, and cited biological differences, instead of social factors, as a potential explanation for larger numbers of boys than girls among their study group.
        Late in his career, in 2000, Dr. Stanley also spoke about the latent pressures placed on gifted children and cautioned against sending youths away to college too soon, before they could become emotionally prepared for campus life, reversing his earlier opinion.
        Julian Cecil Stanley was born in East Point, Ga. He earned his undergraduate degree from Georgia Teachers College and a doctorate in experimental and educational psychology from Harvard in 1950.
        After teaching at Vanderbilt, he joined the staff at the University of Wisconsin, where he was appointed chairman of the department of educational psychology in 1962. He moved to Johns Hopkins in 1967, and was a professor of psychology there until retiring in 1999.
        With Donald T. Campbell, Dr. Stanley wrote ''Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Designs for Research'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1990), which Dr. Van Tassel-Baska said remained a standard textbook that explained the methods and need for making reasoned comparisons in education research.
        Dr. Stanley was a former president of the American Educational Research Association and the National Council on Measurement in Education. He received a lifetime achievement award from the genius group Mensa in 2000.
        He was married three times and is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Fahey. The couple wed in 2002 and lived in Vantage House, an assisted-care facility in Columbia.
        He is also survived by a daughter, Susan Willhoft of Tacoma, Wash.; a sister, Lestina Webb of Fayetteville, Ga.; and a grandchild.
      