
        Jude Wanniski, a journalist, consultant and, most of all, a fierce and unconventional partisan who marshaled intellect and salesmanship to promote big tax cuts as the best cure for an ailing economy, a theory embraced and executed by President Reagan, died yesterday in Morristown, N.J. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to a statement by Polyconomics, his consulting firm in Parsippany, N.J.
        Mr. Wanniski coined the phrase ''supply-side economics'' to describe his idea that a reduction in personal tax rates would stimulate productive investment, the production side of the economy and spur economic growth. He immodestly called this idea, which he formulated in the early 1970's, ''a general theory of the world political economy.''
        Others viewed it as traditional Republican ''trickle down'' economics, meaning that the benefits accruing to wealthier taxpayers would filter throughout the economy. But, indisputably, the idea that tax cuts are almost always a good idea became a tenet of Republican, and many Democratic, campaigns.
        Mr. Wanniski waged his campaign in thousands of articles, most influentially in editorials he wrote for The Wall Street Journal during the 1970's. Though these editorials were unsigned, he worked hard at becoming known, once calling himself ''the most influential political economist of the last generation.''
        The columnist George Will, no shrinking violet himself, once remarked, ''I wish I was as confident about something as he is about everything.''
        Mr. Wanniski was eager to express big thoughts, like his explanation of the cause of the Depression in his 1978 book, ''The Way the World Works.'' He wrote that the day-to-day collapse of the stock market in 1929 coincided with votes on the Senate floor on the protectionist Smoot-Hawley tariff bill.
        National Review, a conservative magazine, called the book one of the 100 most influential books of the 20th century. Mr. Wanniski suggested that the theories expressed in the book helped rehabilitate classical economics, as opposed to the Keynesian and monetarist theories, which were then clashing in a war of ideas.
        Since 1978, Mr. Wanniski had been president of Polyconomics, where he and his analysts advised corporations, investment banks and others. He has also been involved in political campaigns like that of Steve Forbes in 1996 for the Republican presidential nomination, which highlighted another novel economic idea: a single tax rate for everyone.
        How far Mr. Wanniski may have wandered from the traditional bounds of the Republican Party was suggested by his endorsement of Senator John F. Kerry in the 2004 presidential race. He called President Bush ''an imperialist.''
        Jude T. Wanniski was born on June 17, 1936, in Pottsville, Pa. His grandfather was a Pennsylvania coal miner and a dedicated Communist who gave his grandson a copy of ''Das Kapital'' for his high school graduation. He was raised in Brooklyn, and the Dodgers popped up regularly in his writings.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in political science and a master's degree in journalism from the University of California, Los Angeles. He worked for The Las Vegas Review- Journal as a political columnist from 1961 to 1965 and reported to his next job as a Washington columnist for The National Observer in a silver convertible, shiny gold coat and mirrored sunglasses -- with a Las Vegas showgirl on his arm, according to ''Worldly Power: The Making of The Wall Street Journal'' by Edward Scharff.
        Robert L. Bartley, editor of The Journal's editorial page, hired Mr. Wanniski in 1972 as part of the team of bright and brash young conservative writers he had decided to field. The inspiration for supply-side economics partly came from Robert A. Mundell, an economist at Columbia University who had long championed tax cuts.
        The famous epiphany came when Arthur B. Laffer, an economist then at the Office of Management and Budget who had studied with Mr. Mundell, was sitting at a table in 1974 having drinks with Mr. Wanniski and Dick Cheney, then deputy White House chief of staff. Mr. Laffer drew on a cocktail napkin to explain his theory of how lower taxes generated greater economic growth, thus, almost miraculously, paying for themselves. That story became legend.
        Gradually, others joined The Journal in writing about supply-side economics. The columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak were early proponents, and in the late 1970's, BusinessWeek published articles about it.
        Mr. Wanniski, Mr. Bartley, the two economists and a few others met regularly to develop the theory. Mr. Wanniski was head cheerleader and chief propagandist -- ''a true zealot'' in his own words.
        Eventually, his political zeal became too much for The Journal's editorial page. Ray Shaw, then a top executive of Dow Jones & Company, The Journal's parent, saw Mr. Wanniski at a train station passing out literature for a New Jersey Republican running for the United States Senate. That was a violation of the company's ethical standards, and he was fired.
        Mr. Wanniski is survived by his wife, Patricia; his mother, Constance Wanniski; his sister, Ruth Necco; his brother, Terry; his sons, Matthew and Arnold; his daughter, Jennifer Harlan; and a granddaughter.
        In an interview in 2000 with The New York Observer, Mr. Wanniski characterized himself as a ''theologian,'' and supply-side economics as a ''mission.''
        ''I truly believe that I can save people and that the supply-side revolution can save the world from decline, poverty, disease and war,'' he said.
      