
        Nell I. Mondy, a Cornell biochemist who extolled the nutritional benefits of the potato to consumers worldwide and pushed hard to dispel its reputation as a weighty clump of empty calories, died on Aug. 25 at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 83.
        The cause was complications after an operation, said a friend, Marion Howe.
        After early research in vitamins, Dr. Mondy became passionate about potatoes in the 1950's, drawn by their nutritional richness, low cost and long life in storage.
        In her four decades at Cornell, she compared the taste of different varieties, examined color changes in potatoes and continually promoted their value as a staple food providing amino acids, protein, calcium, vitamin C, iron and other nutrients. In fact, Dr. Mondy said that meals of potatoes and milk provided enough nutrition for a healthy diet.
        Dr. Robert L. Plaisted, an emeritus professor of plant breeding at Cornell, said that Dr. Mondy tested big king, Atlantic, Katahdin and other potato varieties, and investigated why some varieties darkened after cooking, a trait considered undesirable by consumers. She also assembled panels of potato tasters to better define the subtleties of different varieties, and then tried to explain differences on a biochemical basis.
        In 1987, Dr. Mondy's research created a public stir when she and a graduate student, Barry Gosselin, released a study suggesting that a naturally occurring toxic compound found in potatoes could be hazardous to human health.
        The compounds, called glycoalkaloids, become concentrated in the potato skin, especially when exposed to light, but enormous quantities would have to be eaten to result in harm. Regardless, Dr. Mondy recommended removing the skins.
        In the 1990's, she reported other potential health hazards from potato skins. Dr. Mondy and others found that chemicals sprayed on potatoes to prevent sprouting in storage often arrived at the grocery store in significantly higher levels than federal guidelines recommended.
        She also promoted potatoes as a crop for developing countries, particularly in Africa.
        Nell Irene Mondy was born in Pocahontas, Ark. She earned an undergraduate degree from Ouachita Baptist College and a master's degree from the University of Texas. In 1953, Cornell awarded her a doctorate in biochemistry.
        Dr. Mondy was appointed an associate professor of food and nutrition at Cornell in 1953, and became a professor there in 1961. While at Cornell, she was a consultant to Frito-Lay, Procter & Gamble and other food companies before retiring in 1992.
        She wrote an autobiography, ''You Never Fail Until You Stop Trying: The Story of a Pioneer Woman Chemist,'' in 2001.
        She lived in Ithaca.
        No immediate family members survive.
      