
        Dr. Daniel A. Ruge, the White House physician who made crucial decisions in the care of President Ronald Reagan after he was shot in 1981, died Aug. 30 in Denver. He was 88.
        Dr. Ruge died in his sleep at his home from a ruptured aortic aneurysm, said his daughter, Charlotte Wiessner, also of Denver.
        Dr. Ruge was standing near Mr. Reagan when John W. Hinckley Jr. shot him in the chest outside the Washington Hilton and followed in another car as the Secret Service sped the president to George Washington University Hospital.
        Emerging from his limousine, Mr. Reagan appeared ashen from severe bleeding. As he told hospital workers that he was having difficulty breathing, his knees began to buckle. Emergency room doctors quickly found the bullet wound, began blood transfusions and rushed Mr. Reagan to the operating room.
        In those few minutes, Dr. Ruge (pronounced ROO-ghe, with a hard ''g'') made decisions that earned him praise and criticism.
        Dr. Ruge was lauded for insisting that Mr. Reagan be treated by the hospital's trauma team, instead of taking charge himself or summoning high-powered surgeons from other medical centers, as has occurred in many cases involving other dignitaries. Dr. Ruge instructed staff members at George Washington to make the same medical and surgical decisions for the president that they would make for any patient in the same condition.
        Mr. Reagan went back to the White House 12 days after the shooting. Many doctors credited his recovery, if not his survival, to Dr. Ruge's decision not to disrupt the hospital's routine.
        But Dr. Ruge later said in interviews with this reporter that he erred in neglecting to invoke the 25th Amendment to transfer presidential powers to Vice President George Bush temporarily, because of Mr. Reagan's need for emergency chest surgery, requiring general anesthesia, and for later treatment in an intensive care unit.
        Dr. Ruge said he had studied the Constitution during the 10 weeks that Mr. Reagan had been in office and carried a copy of the 25th Amendment in his bag. Section 3 of the amendment should have been invoked to transfer executive powers to Mr. Bush for at least a day or two, Dr. Ruge said, ''because Mr. Reagan could not communicate with the people a president is supposed to communicate with.''
        Dr. Ruge, whose thick crop of gray hair topped a 6-foot-2-inch frame, was an unassuming, self-confident man capable of self-criticism. Despite his knowledge of the Constitution, he said he did not think about applying the 25th Amendment because of the frantic nature of the moment. He also said he was not sure what would have been the right time to revoke the declaration transferring power.
        Dr. Ruge said that he wanted to be publicly invisible as the White House physician and declined to talk with medical reporters at the time. But Dr. Ruge later said that he had also erred in refusing interviews about these issues.
        Fred F. Fielding, counsel to Mr. Reagan, has said that the president and the vice president told him they had discussed Mr. Reagan's wishes in a medical emergency, but those wishes have not been made public.
        Dr. Ruge said he did not participate in any such meeting. But he said that if he had, he would have been more likely to have remembered the amendment's provision during the tense period immediately after the shooting.
        At that point, he recalled in interviews, he would almost certainly have said, ''Mr. President, you are going to have general anesthesia, and we had better think now about our earlier discussion of the 25th Amendment.''
        Dr. Ruge said he spoke out to help clarify the issue for future situations involving a president's incapacity.
        Daniel August Ruge was born in Murdock, Neb., on May 13, 1917. After graduating from North Central College in Naperville, Ill., in 1939, he earned a medical degree and a doctorate in pharmacology at Northwestern University Medical School in Chicago.
        As a medical student, he contracted tuberculosis, which scarred his lungs, preventing surgical repair of his aortic aneurysm after it was detected in recent years, his daughter said.
        While training as a neurosurgeon in Chicago, one of his teachers was Dr. Loyal Davis, Nancy Reagan's stepfather. The two later worked as partners for 20 years. Dr. Ruge also was a professor at Northwestern and became an expert in spinal cord disorders.
        He wrote a textbook on spinal cord injuries and directed the spinal cord injury service for the Veterans Administration in Washington. At 63, he was about to retire to spend more time fishing and enjoying the company of his wife, Greta, whom he met when they were classmates in college.
        When Mr. Reagan followed his father-in-law's recommendation and asked Dr. Ruge to be the chief White House physician, he did not immediately accept.
        He was an unusual choice in a number of ways.
        Like Mr. Reagan, who was the oldest man to assume the presidency, Dr. Ruge would be the oldest to become the White House physician.
        Also, most White House physicians have been specialists in broader fields, like internal medicine and family medicine, than Dr. Ruge's specialty, neurosurgery.
        Further, White House physicians of the era had been drawn from the military. Dr. Ruge was a civilian. It can be hard for civilian doctors to close their practices and then plan to resume them after their patient's term is up.
        Though many doctors may perceive a White House physician's job as exciting, Dr. Ruge did not. He said he rejected a second term because he found the job ''vastly overrated, boring and not medically challenging.''
        ''It's not one of the glamour spots in the White House,'' Dr. Ruge said.
        Dr. Ruge said he rarely attended state dinners because of space limitations. Yet he had to be prepared in case of an emergency at the dinner. So, he said, he often sat alone in his office, dressed in a tuxedo, solving crossword puzzles and reading medical journals.
        Aspects of the patient-doctor relationship between presidents and White House physicians are significantly different from those in a standard medical practice. For example, a doctor generally controls the time patients can make appointments. A White House physician's schedule depends entirely on that of his principal patient, the president.
        Still, there are advantages. A White House physician can enter the Oval Office or the president's residence at any time, with good reason. Also, the White House physician can tap any number of experts for advice.
        ''A president's physician can ask for anything, and he will get it,'' Dr. Ruge said. ''No doctor will refuse a request to consult.''
        Indeed, Dr. Ruge said that occasionally when he learned a visiting medical expert was in Washington, he invited that physician to examine the president.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, Dr. Ruge is survived by a son, Thomas, of San Francisco; two sisters, Ruth Rikli of Murdock and Loretta Stock of Lincoln, Neb.; and two grandchildren.
        In an interview with this reporter during the presidential campaign in 1980, Mr. Reagan said that if elected, he expected his doctors to check him periodically for signs of a failing memory. He also said that he would resign if he showed evidence of mental deterioration.
        As a neurosurgeon, Dr. Ruge was well qualified to observe Mr. Reagan closely. After Mr. Reagan disclosed in 1994 that he had Alzheimer's disease, Dr. Ruge said he had never detected any signs of Alzheimer's in talking with him almost daily from 1981 to 1985.
        Mr. Reagan had ''a good memory'' then, Dr. Ruge said.
      