
        Jacob A. Marinsky, a chemist who helped discover promethium, No.61 in the periodic table and one of several elements isolated during work on the Manhattan Project, died Sept. 1 at his home in Buffalo, where he taught at the State University of New York. He was 87. The cause was multiple myeloma, his family said.
        An associate chemist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee from 1944 to 1946, Dr. Marinsky and colleagues isolated promethium, a radioactive element, in the form of metal salts, the byproduct of atomic research in uranium fission. Also credited with the discovery were Lawrence E. Glendenin and Charles D. Coryell of Oak Ridge.
        In a commercial application, promethium was used to produce luminous materials like watch dials, leading the scientists to name the element for Prometheus, the figure in Greek mythology who brought fire to mankind.
        Harry F. King, a professor of chemistry at SUNY, said Dr. Marinsky and his colleagues washed a solution of metal salts through a column of resins and succeeded in isolating promethium ions. The process, called ion exchange, remained a primary interest of Dr. Marinsky's throughout his career. The American Chemical Society acknowledged the result in 1949, recognizing the finding for the periodic table.
        A synthetic and relatively unstable material, promethium was introduced to the international scientific establishment after World War II, along with plutonium, neptunium, technetium and others. In part because it decays rapidly, promethium ''was an astounding thing to discover in the middle of the periodic table, so late in the history of science,'' Dr. King said.
        Jacob Akiba Marinsky was born in Buffalo. He graduated from the University of Buffalo and earned his doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1949.
        Dr. Marinsky worked in industrial research before returning to Buffalo, where he was appointed as a professor of chemistry in 1957. He became a professor emeritus in 1988.
        Dr. Marinsky is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Ruth Slick; four daughters, Deborah Marinsky of Princeton, N.J.; Elyse Friedman of Newton Center, Mass.; Jane Marinsky of Buffalo, and Susan Cramer of Blacksburg, Va.; 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      