
        Mary Lee Settle, a master of historical fiction who recreated time and place with visceral, almost fanatical accuracy, died Tuesday at a hospice in Charlottesville, Va. She was 87 and made her home in Charlottesville.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Christopher Weathersbee.
        Ms. Settle, who was a National Book Award winner and the author of the novels known as ''The Beulah Quintet,'' explained her research process in an introduction to ''O Beulah Land,'' the first in an interconnected five-book saga that spanned three centuries, from Cromwell's England to what Ms. Settle called ''the feudal coal culture'' of West Virginia, her native state.
        To inform her book, she wrote, it was necessary to ''let the past become a present, let it fall beyond intelligence into reliving, which is true sensuous recall, where dreams come from with all their fears and future hopes of things long past.''
        ''The Beulah Quintet'' novels, written between 1956 and 1982, were linked by an exploration of the ways American concepts of personal freedom evolved, and began with the journey of former English prisoners to West Virginia's Kanawha Valley (called Beulah in the novels). For instance, the plot of ''The Scapegoat'' (1980), the fourth volume, unfolds during a violent 1912 confrontation between miners and owners. The other books are ''Know Nothing'' (1960), ''Prisons'' (written in 1973, years after ''O Beulah Land,'' but labeled Book I because the action takes place earlier in history) and ''The Killing Ground'' (1982).
        But Ms. Settle's work ranged far beyond her birthplace, geographically and otherwise. In 1978, she received the National Book Award for ''Blood Tie,'' the story of American and British expatriates in Turkey. She had been living there, well aware of the sociocultural influences that traveled both ways between natives and outsiders. Reviewing the novel in The New York Times, Anatole Broyard wrote that the American and British characters were ''like so many Typhoid Marys, carrying the disease of change, change as a fever, wherever they go.''
        If Ms. Settle's work was never wildly fashionable -- possibly because ''I don't write about being vaguely unhappy in Connecticut,'' she once said -- that allowed it to age well.
        In her historical novels, readers could be assured that the characters spoke pretty much the way people in their time and place spoke, or as close to it as was humanly possible to determine. Ms. Settle had been known to spend months on end reading letters and other accounts from the period she was researching without taking a single note. ''She believed that the key to understanding these people was in their words,'' said Starling Lawrence, her editor at W.W. Norton. So she simply immersed herself in them.
        ''Ye're no more nor 19, if that,'' a character in ''O Beulah Land'' tells a new acquaintance. In ''I, Roger Williams: Fragment of an Autobiography'' (2001), Williams has low opinions of ''brabble'' and ''fribbling matters.''
        Ms. Settle, always sympathetic to other writers and an advocate of their causes, decided that authors should have their own awards program, with the winners chosen by fellow authors. That way the selections would be independent of publishing industry influences. The idea turned into the PEN/Faulkner award, which began in 1980 and which, with a $15,000 grand prize, has become the largest of the country's major fiction awards.
        Mary Lee Settle was born on July 29, 1918, in Charleston, W.Va., the daughter of Joseph Edward and Rachel Tompkins Settle. Her father was a civil engineer in charge of worker safety at coal mines. That industry ran into financial difficulties even before the Depression. More than a half century later, Ms. Settle recalled ''the brave Christmas dinner of 1930'' when she and her parents were living with her grandmother ''because the bottom had dropped out of the coal business.'' Ms. Settle attended Sweet Briar College in Virginia for two years, then began a career as a fashion model. ''I took for granted the kind of looks that other women envied and that I treated with a slight contempt,'' she wrote at the age of 69, contemplating the advisability of face-lifts. She is also said to have been given a screen test, along with half of Hollywood, for the role of Scarlett O'Hara in ''Gone With the Wind.''
        During World War II she went to England and served in the women's branch of the Royal Air Force, an experience she recounted later in ''All the Brave Promises: Memories of Aircraft Woman Second Class 2146391.''
        In New York after the war, she worked as a magazine editor, but briefly. She often told the story of how, while going over a Harper's Bazaar fashion layout that had been inspired by ''Wuthering Heights,'' she noticed in some notes that Emily Brontë had died at 30. It was then, she said, that she decided she had better start on the books she was planning to write, walked into the boss's office and resigned.
        Nine years later her first book was published. ''The Love Eaters'' (1954) was about a small-town theater company. She went on to write 22 books, the most recent being ''Spanish Recognitions'' (2004), a travel memoir.
        Ms. Settle traveled extensively and lived abroad at various periods in her life for various reasons. In the late 1960's she fulfilled a promise that many of her fellow Democrats had made to themselves. In 1987, she explained it to Nancy Carol Joyner of Western Carolina University: ''I said if Nixon was elected president I was going back to Europe. He was, and I did.''
        Ms. Settle married three times and divorced twice. Her first two husbands, Rodney Weathersbee (1939-46) and Douglas Newton (1946-56), were British. In 1978, when she was 60, she married William L. Tazewell, an American writer and historian. He died in 1998.
        Like many authors, she had an academic career as well. Her longest association was with Bard College, where she was an associate professor from 1965 to 1976. She also taught at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, where she lived on and off throughout her life.
        Ms. Settle never let age slow her writing career. ''Spanish Reflections'' was based on a trip that she took in her early 80's, after finishing ''I, Roger Williams.''
        At the time of her death she was working on ''Tom: An Appreciation of Thomas Jefferson,'' an ''imagined biography'' focusing on Jefferson's youth. Her son said it was not yet clear whether the book was in shape for publication.
        In addition to her son, now living in Charlottesville, she is survived by a granddaughter, Beatrice Weathersbee, of Portsmouth, N.H.; a grandson, Nicolas Weathersbee, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; and four great-grandchildren.
        Just days before her death, Ms. Settle discussed her memorial service with Mr. Lawrence, her editor. In a conversation that inspired her to give an impromptu recitation of a Keats sonnet (''When I have fears that I may cease to be''), she told him that she would like to have the beginning of the Gospel of St. John read. ''If you're a writer, you can see the appeal of that text,'' Mr. Lawrence said.
        The first words of the first verse of the Book of John are ''In the beginning was the word.''
      