
        Harry Heltzer, who began at the 3M Company as a $12-a-week manual laborer, invented one of the company's most profitable products and rose to be its top executive, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Lenoir, N.C. He was 94.
        A granddaughter, Deborah Heltzer, confirmed the death.
        Mr. Heltzer's invention was a new way of making reflective signs for use on highways. It went on to become a market leader.
        As head of 3M, a diversified technology and manufacturing company founded as the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Mr. Heltzer expanded the company to 150 countries, directly investing in new businesses abroad instead of just selling products.
        From 1966 to 1972, years in which he was at the top of the company, earnings rose sharply. Nearly a third of that increase came after he rose from president to chairman and chief executive in October 1970.
        Mr. Heltzer was fond of pointing out that none of 3M's 30,000 products, the most famous of which is Scotch tape, generated more than 5 percent of its total revenue.
        ''It's all nickel and dime stuff,'' he said in a newspaper interview in the 1970's. ''But those nickels and dimes, they sure do add up.''
        Mr. Heltzer was born in Cincinnati on Aug. 22, 1911, and moved to Minneapolis as a child. He graduated from the University of Minnesota in metallurgical engineering, then went to work for 3M as a laborer in its abrasives department.
        His first job was unloading roofing granules from boxcars for 35 cents an hour. His wife, Elizabeth, told The Star Tribune of Minneapolis for its obituary article that he liked to say, ''I asked for a job, and they gave me a job and a shovel.''
        In 1937, he was assigned to a project to make the center striping on highways more reflective at night than was possible with the standard white or yellow paint. A Minnesota highway official had suggested painting glass beads onto the stripe.
        The first problem Mr. Heltzer encountered was a lack of glass beads small enough to use. He proceeded to make his own, often through novel methods. One was to drop molten glass from his window.
        He finally fashioned an acceptable double-coated tape with beads on one side, but he could not make it stick to the road during a Minnesota winter. So he used the process he developed to make a material for signs, which was sold as Scotchlite reflective sheeting.
        Later he developed a glass-bead reflective compound for highway striping that would stick to the road's surface. He was awarded six patents for reflective highway products.
        In 1961, Mr. Heltzer was named a vice president of 3M; in 1965, a board member; and, in 1966, president. In 1970, he was elected chairman and chief executive.
        Mr. Heltzer resigned in 1975, at age 64, one year before 3M's official retirement age.
        That year, 3M, Mr. Heltzer and two other executives consented to a federal court order barring them from violations of securities laws in connection with illegal campaign contributions. In 1973 he had pleaded guilty to contributing $30,000 in company funds to President Richard M. Nixon's presidential campaign in 1972.
        In a scheme that began before Mr. Heltzer rose to the top of the company, 3M had kept an illegal slush fund of more than $600,000, which it used to make more than $400,000 in illegal political donations. Mr. Heltzer disbursed the money during his time as chief executive.
        ''I should have been a lot smarter than I was,'' Mr. Heltzer said in an interview with The New York Times in 1975. ''By just not asking the proper questions at the right time, I kind of fell into what seemed to be the practice of the times.''
        Mr. Heltzer was chairman of the International Road Federation, the Highway Users Federation for Safety and Mobility and the Automotive Safety Foundation. He was a director of the National Safety Council and a member of the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee.
        In addition to his wife, the former Elizabeth Kent, Mr. Heltzer is survived by a son, James, of Bemidji, Minn.; a daughter, Maryhelen Hauge, of Maple Grove, Minn.; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      