
        Theodore R. Sarbin, a prominent social psychologist who in 1988 helped write a controversial Pentagon report recommending that the United States military end discrimination against gay men and lesbians, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 94.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Frank Barrett, a colleague and longtime friend.
        At his death, Dr. Sarbin was emeritus professor of psychology and criminology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where he had taught since 1969. He was previously on the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley.
        Dr. Sarbin's report was prepared for the Defense Personnel Security Research and Education Center, at the time a Navy program. Completed in late 1988, the report was publicly rejected by the Pentagon after it was leaked to the news media the next year by members of Congress sympathetic to the cause of gay men and lesbians in the military. The report was written with Kenneth E. Karols, a Navy psychiatrist and surgeon.
        Dr. Sarbin was known as a pioneer in the field of role theory, which places the behavior and actions of an individual in a larger social context. He was also known for his work in narrative psychology, which examines people's use of familiar stories to make sense of the world around them.
        Theodore Roy Sarbin was born in Cleveland on May 8, 1911. As a young man, he rode the rails as a hobo, an experience he would later say helped him identify with people on the margins of society. He earned a bachelor's degree from Ohio State University, a master's from Western Reserve University and, in 1941, a Ph.D. in psychology from Ohio State.
        After an early marriage that ended in divorce, Dr. Sarbin married the former Genevieve Donahue Allen in 1948. She died in 1998.
        From 1987 until shortly before his death, Dr. Sarbin was a research psychologist at the Defense Personnel Security Research and Education Center, which is now part of the Department of Defense. Based in Monterey, Calif., the center was established in 1986 in the wake of the discovery of a Navy spy ring. It studies human behavior as it relates to national security.
        Dr. Sarbin's report was originally commissioned to examine the security risks posed by gay men and lesbians in the military. In the finished report, ''Nonconforming Sexual Orientations and Military Suitability,'' he and Dr. Karols concluded that gay men and lesbians posed no greater risk than heterosexuals did. They recommended that the Pentagon rethink its policy barring them from service.
        ''Having a same-gender or an opposite-gender orientation is unrelated to job performance in the same way as being left- or right-handed,'' they wrote.
        The report caused a furor at the Pentagon, which denounced it as exceeding its mandate. The Clinton administration eventually instituted a ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, which requires gay service members to keep their sexual orientation private or face discharge. The policy remains in effect.
        Among Dr. Sarbin's many books are ''The Myth of the Criminal Type'' (Wesleyan University, 1969) and ''Schizophrenia: Medical Diagnosis or Moral Verdict?'' (Pergamon Press, 1980, with James C. Mancuso). His report for the military was published in book form in 1990 as ''Gays in Uniform: The Pentagon's Secret Reports'' (Alyson Publications), edited by Kate Dyer.
        Dr. Sarbin is survived by his companion, Karin Sobeck; a sister, Ruth Landy, of Beachwood, Ohio; three sons: James Allen of Belvedere, Calif., Ronald Allen of Carmel, and Theodore Jr., of Reno, Nev.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      