
        Brian Roylance, an English publisher whose company, Genesis Publications, turned rock into history with hand-crafted, autographed limited editions of musicians' memoirs and photography collections, died on Tuesday in Guildford, England. He was 60.
        His son, Nicholas, said that Mr. Roylance died during a soccer game with friends, apparently of a heart attack.
        Mr. Roylance's company published books by George Harrison (including his memoir, ''I Me Mine,'' and two books of reproduced lyric manuscripts) and Ringo Starr (''Postcards From the Boys,'' a collection of postcards sent to him by the other Beatles), as well as ''Sometime in New York,'' a collection of Bob Gruen's photographs of John Lennon. Among the other Beatles-related books Mr. Roylance published were ''Fifty Years Adrift,'' a memoir by Derek Taylor, who worked for the Beatles in various capacities in the 1960's and again in the 1990's, and ''Playback,'' an autobiography by the group's record producer, George Martin.
        Mr. Roylance also published photography collections by Astrid Kirchherr, Jurgen Vollmer and Max Scheler, who photographed the Beatles during their early years as a Hamburg bar band. And he issued an edition that included reproductions of paintings by Stuart Sutcliffe, the Beatles' original bassist, who left the band to pursue his art career but died in 1962. As a result of his work on various Beatles-related projects, starting with Harrison's ''I Me Mine'' in 1980, Mr. Roylance was enlisted by Apple, the group's company, to assemble ''The Beatles Anthology,'' a book based on the band's video autobiography. It was published by Chronicle in 2000.
        The success of his Beatles projects also opened other doors in the rock music world for Mr. Roylance. Among the company's publications are books devoted to Jimi Hendrix, the Rolling Stones, David Bowie, Brian Wilson, the Who, Pink Floyd and Ravi Shankar.
        Many of these books were built around the work of photographers who, in the 60's, defined the art of capturing rock 'n' roll on film, and several included reproductions of concert tickets and other memorabilia, as well as the signatures of the musicians or photographers whose work they covered. Their hallmark, though, was their physical heft: they were invariably printed on handmade, acid-free paper, usually from Milan, and bound by family-run bookbinders in Oxford, London, Edinburgh or Milan. Most had gilded or silvered edges, which Mr. Roylance said were not just for decoration but to protect the books from insects.
        Mr. Roylance was born in Newcastle-Emlin, Wales, on April 4, 1945, and grew up in London. At 15, he took a job as a photo reproduction apprentice at a London newspaper, and through the 60's he held several publishing jobs while attending the London College of Printing. At the time, he spent his lunch hours studying nautical logs at the public records office, and it occurred to him to assemble a reproduction of Capt. William Bligh's log from the Bounty, in an edition of 500 hand-bound copies.
        When that edition sold out, Mr. Roylance published reproductions of other nautical documents, including Charles Darwin's ''Journal of a Voyage in HMS Beagle,'' with a foreword by Prince Charles, and James Cook's ''Journal of HMS Resolution 1772-1775,'' with a foreword by Earl Mountbatten. Mr. Roylance's move into popular culture took place after a chance encounter with Derek Taylor in 1977. He showed Taylor some of his nautical books and mentioned that he regarded the Beatles' song manuscripts as historical documents that should be published in similar editions. With Taylor's help, he contacted the members of the band, but only Harrison responded enthusiastically, largely because he admired the craftsmanship of Mr. Roylance's early seafaring logs. Harrison's ''I Me Mine'' was published in a 2,000-copy signed edition, with commentary by Taylor, in 1980, and quickly sold out.
        Over the next 25 years, Mr. Roylance devoted himself mainly to rock 'n' roll projects, but he had recently begun expanding in other directions as well, with books on horse racing and rugby.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Guildford, Mr. Roylance is survived by a daughter, Catherine Roylance, of London; his wife, Patricia Roylance; and two stepdaughters, Laura and Delphine Adburgham. An earlier marriage ended in divorce.
      