
        Stanley Dancer, an eighth-grade dropout who became harness racing's most successful trainer, driver, owner and breeder during the sport's glory days from the 1940's to the 60's, died yesterday in his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 78.
        The cause of death was complications from prostate cancer, according to his wife, Jody.
        The United States Trotting Association, which governs harness racing, once called Dancer ''perhaps the best-known personality in the sport.'' He and the late Billy Haughton were the stars of the old county-fair sport that was revived in the New York City suburbs with the opening of Roosevelt Raceway in 1940 and Yonkers Raceway in 1950. The sport retained its new stature until casinos and lotteries took away the largest chunks of the betting dollar.
        Dancer began driving horses in 1945 at Freehold Raceway in New Jersey. His first victory came in 1946, his 3,781st and last in 1995. In 1964, he became the first driver to win $1 million in purses in a year, and in 1968 he drove the pacer Cardigan Bay to the first $1 million year ever for a horse. Over his career, he won $28,002,426.
        ''I've made a lot of money in the horse business,'' he once said, ''which to me was like never having to work at all. I've been blessed with some of the greatest horses of all time.''
        He is the only driver to have won three triple crowns for 3-year-olds: with the trotters Nevele Pride in 1968 and Super Bowl in 1972, and the pacer Most Happy Fella in 1970. Seven times he trained and drove the harness horse of the year: the trotters Su Mac Lad in 1962; the trotter Nevele Pride in 1967, 1968 and 1969; the pacer Albatross in 1971 and 1972; and the pacer Keystone Ore in 1976. Four times he drove the winner of the sport's premier race, the Hambletonian for 3-year-old trotters. In 1969, he was inducted into the Harness Racing Hall of Fame.
        At 5 feet 8 inches and 135 pounds, he was quiet, soft-spoken and meek looking. As Red Smith wrote, ''He doesn't look old enough to be let out for night racing.'' But in an era when drivers would generally dawdle for three-quarters of a mile and then stage a cavalry charge over the last quarter-mile, Dancer introduced an aggressive style that forced rivals to drive hard from the start.
        He remained aggressive despite an endless physical beating. He survived 32 racing spills, four auto accidents, a helicopter crash and a plane crash. In his driving days, he had two heart attacks. In 1955, he broke his back. In 1973, his right arm started to atrophy from nerve damage sustained in a collision 18 years earlier. In 1988, he broke two bones in his back and tore the rotator cuff in his right shoulder.
        Several times, doctors told him to quit driving. He refused, once saying: ''There is nothing dangerous about harness racing. The worst crackup I ever had came in an auto accident.''
        Stanley Franklin Dancer was born July 25, 1927, in West Windsor, N.J., near Trenton, and was raised on the family farm in New Egypt, N.J.
        He bought his first horse with $200 borrowed from his parents. In his first race as a driver, wearing borrowed silks, he drove a horse he bought for $75 with 4-H Club prize money. He lost the race, but within 10 years the man who had lent him the silks was working for him.
        In 1948, he started a stable with a broken-down 7-year-old trotter, Candor, bought with $250 that his wife had saved for college. Over the next three years, the horse earned $12,000, and a career had begun.
        As William Liggett wrote of Dancer in Sports Illustrated, ''His public acceptance came almost immediately in the big time in front of the largest crowds available and, more importantly, where the greatest amounts of money are bet.''
        Despite his success, Dancer never let up. Pete Axthelm observed: ''He hardly knows how to slow down and savor his success. At the height of his career, he remains vaguely uneasy, impatient and preoccupied. By some standards, he is a man who has almost everything, but he wants more. His colleagues say he won't really be satisfied until somebody holds a series of races for the greatest harness racing horses in the world and finds that every one of them beds down in the Dancer stable.''
        His favorite horse may have been Dancer's Crown, whom he named for himself. Three weeks before the 1983 Hambletonian, in which the horse would have been a heavy favorite, the colt died. When Dancer's family and friends urged him to enter Duenna, a little-known filly, he reluctantly did. Duenna won the race in what Arnold Palmer called ''one of the most dramatic moments in sports.'' Dancer shrugged and said, ''You just can't quit, can you?''
        Dancer once said of harness racing: ''It's my whole life. I don't have a hobby because I like to spend as much time as I can with my horses. I guess it's a hobby and a career at the same time. I really enjoy it.''
        The sport was a big part of his family life, too. Harold and Vernon, two of his three brothers, were drivers. So was a son, Ronnie.
        Dancer lived most of his life in New Egypt on a 160-acre farm with a half-mile training track. In 1999, he moved to Pompano Beach, where he had wintered since 1985. He was married to the former Rachel Young from 1947 until a divorce in 1983. He married Jody O'Connor in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife; two sons, Ronnie, of New Egypt, and Stanley Richard of Pompano Beach; two daughters, Susan Moyher of Naples, Fla., and Shaldonna Chaisson of Pompano Beach; seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        Dancer's great regret was that his sport had lost so much prestige. In 1995, he told The New York Times: ''It breaks my heart that harness racing is not as popular as it once was. I guess I was a big celebrity back then, but I still get my kicks.''
        Correction:  September 17, 2005, Saturday  An obituary on Sept. 9 about Stanley Dancer, the harness racing champion, misstated the milestone reached in 1968 by the pacer Cardigan Bay. He was the first harness horse to win $1 million in a career, not in a year.
      