
        Dr. Margot S. Kruskall, a Harvard hematologist and an expert on blood banks who was an early advocate for patients' donations of their own blood before surgery, a practice propelled by the spread of AIDS in the 1980's, died on Aug. 27 at her home in Dover, Mass. She was 56. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
        In 1982, when Dr. Kruskall headed Beth Israel Hospital's blood bank and hematology laboratory in Boston, she established a program for patients to donate and store their own blood, in large part stemming from concerns about hepatitis infections.
        The practice, known as autologous donation, was known for more than a century, although it had never before been instituted on a wide scale. Dr. Kruskall and others at Beth Israel set up a system to label the blood, decided what surgical procedures were best served by it and created an inventory system.
        The program's timing was propitious, coming just as H.I.V. was being recognized as a blood-borne virus.
        When similar programs appeared nationwide, Dr. Kruskall and others analyzed their effectiveness and published the findings in the journal Transfusion in 1986. Autologous donations have since declined, largely because of closer controls on blood banks and the application of the hormone erythropoietin, which stimulates production of red blood cells and markedly reduces the need for blood transfusions.
        Dr. Justine M. Carr, a hematologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and a former director of the hematology lab there, said Dr. Kruskall began to research the viability of erythropoietin in the 1980's, helping to prove its effectiveness and determine dosages.
        She and other scientists later developed a blood test to detect erythropoietin, which has been used by athletes to reduce muscle fatigue and illicitly enhance performance.
        More recently, Dr. Kruskall pursued research to develop a kind of universal red blood cell that could be safely infused, regardless of a patient's blood type. She worked with Type B blood, modifying its red cells with enzymes to react like the cells in blood Type O, which can be received by most patients.
        Margot Sheffield Kruskall was born in New York City. She earned an undergraduate degree from Jackson College of Tufts University, and her medical degree from the Medical College of Wisconsin in 1974.
        She arrived at Beth Israel in 1976 and remained for the rest of her career, ultimately serving as director of the division of laboratory and transfusion medicine. Harvard appointed her an associate professor of medicine in 1992 and a professor of pathology in 2002.
        Dr. Kruskall was an associate editor of Transfusion.
        She is survived by her husband of 32 years, Dr. Stephen Kruskall, co-chairman of the emergency room at MetroWest Medical Center in Framingham, Mass.; a son, Peter; two daughters, Gillian and Lauren, all of Dover; and by a sister, Denni Day of Rochester.
      