
        Nan Kempner, the New York socialite known as much for her wit as for her celery-thin figure, had her last party yesterday, at Christie's. Peter Duchin played, Champagne was served, the fellow who designed Camilla Parker Bowles's wedding hat flew in from London. The consensus was it was an event that Ms. Kempner, who once said she would attend the opening of an envelope, and who died of emphysema in July, would have very much enjoyed -- excepting the early hour of 10 a.m., which was ghastly.
        ''Nan's very sorry she couldn't be here, today,'' Kenneth J. Lane, the jewelry designer, who was one of the speakers said. ''But as you all know she would never want to see any of you, no matter how much she loved you, before lunch.''
        A pause, before the 800 or so socialites who filled the room. ''She did love most of you.''
        Another pause. '' I see only a few of you she didn't.''
        A great collector of fashion, who is credited as being one of the models for the ''social X-rays'' about whom Tom Wolfe wrote, Ms. Kempner loved parties, loved making an entrance. She was open about having had plastic surgery and made no excuses for maintaining 110 pounds on her 5-foot-9 frame. Earlier this year, after new government guidelines about weight were released, Ms. Kempner was told by a reporter that under those guidelines she was considered much too thin.
        ''Yes,'' Ms. Kempner said, ''Isn't it wonderful?''
        Those who wondered why her memorial service took place at Christie's had no doubt forgotten that in the late 90's, she had become an international representative for the auction house. She described that job, in her characteristic fashion, as ''a shill to bring friends in.''
        Yesterday morning, a series of black Town Cars and taxis deposited those friends at Christie's, at Rockefeller Plaza; such an unending stream of Size 4 ladies in black sling backs and men with silk pocket scarves that it seemed as if all of upper Park had been drained for the occasion. There was John Richardson, Annette de la Renta, Blaine Trump, Pepe and Emilia Fanjul, Dominick Dunne, Carolina Herrera. There was Dixon Boardman and his much younger wife, Arriana Hohenlohe- Boardman. Betsy Bloomingdale, who had come in from Los Angeles, wore leopard Manolos, of which Ms. Kempner would have certainly approved. Also attending were William F. Buckley Jr., who spoke, and Pat Buckley, Ms. Kempner's close friend.
        ''I spoke to her every morning at 11 and every evening at 6,'' Ms. Buckley said. ''She was my own Holly Golightly.''
        The mood of the memorial was like that of a party of old friends. Mr. Duchin, who played romantic standards between tributes, greeted friends before the speeches started as if he was playing the Carlyle. The stories, which often involved Ms. Kempner's love of both family and eating off other people's plates, were sometimes racy; Ms. Kempner liked a naughty joke.
        Ms. Kempner's husband, Thomas L. Kempner, said his wife, ''loved the theater and saw the world as her stage. Thomas Kempner Jr. spoke of the time in Venice that his mother bought his son Nate his first cognac, ''Rémy XL,'' and his first cigar, ''a Montecristo No. 2.'' Nate was 15 at the time.
        James Kempner recalled some of his mother's expressions. He said she called tight pants ''small-hotel pants'' (for reasons that cannot be spelled out in a family newspaper). Mr. Duchin, seeing an opening, played, ''There's a Small Hotel.''
        At the reception Mr. Duchin, backed by three other musicians, played romantic standards. The designer Mary McFadden described Ms. Kempner as a woman who could fly to India for a party and show that it was well worth it, emboldening Ms. McFadden, years later, to fly to India for a party.
        Philip Treacy, who designed the Parker Bowles wedding hat, said Ms. Kempner had once tracked him down in London to get a leopard hat with leopard ears in which she planned to ski.
        Boaz Mazor, who is an executive at large of Oscar de la Renta, said he could not recall a memorial with music like this. If Ms. Kempner were here, Mr. Mazor said, she would be the one to start the dancing.
        A little later, standing near the piano with Ms. Bloomingdale, he sang along with ''Ya Mustapha.'' Can you imagine that the Turkish song ''Ya Mustapha'' was one of Ms. Kempner's favorites, Mr. Mazor said, laughing. Then he and Ms. Bloomingdale, moving their bodies in time to the music, did a little dance.
      