
        Horace W. Davenport, a physiologist and educator at the University of Michigan who laid a foundation for more effective ulcer treatments by revealing how gastric acid works in digestion without consuming the stomach itself, died Aug. 29 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 92. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Davenport, who was chairman of the university's physiology department from 1956 to 1978, published his pioneering research in the 1960's, after observing the digestive tracts of dogs.
        Working with Charles F. Code of the Mayo Clinic, and others, he explored the stomach's lining, investigating why the powerful acid secreted during digestion does not also destroy the tissue that contains it. The researchers studied a protective wall, which they called the gastric mucosal barrier, and breached the wall with aspirin, alcohol and weak acids.
        Leonard R. Johnson, chairman of the physiology department at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center, said the experiments led to a breakthrough in understanding the mechanism of digestion. Dr. Davenport found that aspirin and other substances caused hydrogen to flood into the cells of the barrier -- and caused sodium to leave the same cells, leading to the cells' destruction, and a stomach ulcer.
        In a series of papers published in the 60's, Dr. Davenport later refined the concept. He also wrote what became a standard textbook explaining the process to medical students, ''Physiology of the Digestive Tract.''
        In the 1970's and 80's, pharmaceutical companies used Dr. Davenport's insights to devise a new generation of stomach medications, including histamine blockers and proton blockers, to protect the barrier and prevent peptic ulcers.
        An earlier textbook by Dr. Davenport, ''The ABC of Acid-Base Chemistry,'' ''taught an entire generation of medical doctors about how the body regulates acids and alkalines, and their delicate interplay in the bloodstream,'' said Allen S. Lichter, dean of the University of Michigan's medical school.
        After retiring from teaching in 1983, Dr. Davenport turned to the history of medicine, and published two books about the foundation and evolution of the Michigan medical school as well as articles on developments in physiology.
        Horace Willard Davenport was born in Philadelphia and earned an undergraduate degree from the California Institute of Technology. In 1935, he was named a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, where he received degrees in biochemistry and animal physiology. He then returned to Caltech to earn his doctorate in biochemistry in 1939.
        Dr. Davenport taught briefly at Harvard and the University of Pennsylvania before accepting a position at the University of Utah in 1945. He was chairman of Utah's division of biological sciences from 1948 to 1951. He then moved to Michigan in 1956 and remained for three decades.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Married twice, Dr. Davenport, is survived by a son, Dr. Robertson D. Davenport, director of the University of Michigan's blood bank and transfusion service, of Ann Arbor, and by two grandsons.
      