
        Arnold Weinstein, the poet, playwright and librettist who wrote works performed on and off Broadway, taught playwriting at Yale and Columbia, and collaborated with composers from William Bolcom to Henry Threadgill to Philip Glass, died Sunday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his niece, Lisa Hamm.
        A self-described ''theater poet,'' he was perhaps best known in recent years for his collaboration with Mr. Bolcom, which included four volumes of cabaret songs as well as the operas ''McTeague,'' ''A View From the Bridge'' (with Arthur Miller) and ''A Wedding'' (with Robert Altman). The operas had their premieres at the Chicago Lyric Opera; ''A View From the Bridge'' came to the Metropolitan Opera in 2002. Affiliated with the group of poets, painters and musicians known as the New York School in the 1950's and 60's, he counted the poet John Ashberry and the painter Larry Rivers among his close friends. He collaborated with Mr. Rivers on ''What Did I Do? The Unauthorized Autobiography'' in 1999. Among his own notable works were ''The Red Eye of Love,'' a satire about an all-meat department store that had a long Off Broadway run in 1961, and an adaptation of ''Ovid's Metamorphoses,'' which went to Broadway in 1971.
        ''He had such a gift for writing words that were singable, and that gave character,'' Mr. Bolcom said. ''He was more influential on a lot of other people than people have taken into account.''
        Arnold Weinstein was born on June 10, 1927, in New York to English-born parents; he grew up in Harlem and then in the Bronx. He enlisted in the Navy during World War II and served on a destroyer. After the war, he attended Hunter College on the G.I. Bill, and later did graduate work at Harvard, eventually earning a Rhodes scholarship.
        It was while he was living in Florence, Italy, on a Fulbright fellowship that he came to the attention of Darius Milhaud, the composer. Milhaud loved his libretto ''A Comedy of Horrors,'' but found it too American for his own tastes; he passed it on to his American student, Mr. Bolcom, and a collaboration was born. The result was a show, later rechristened ''Dynamite Tonight,'' an antiwar satire that opened at the Actor's Studio in 1964, with a cast that included Alvin Epstein and Gene Wilder. Robert Brustein later revived the piece at the Yale Repertory Theater.
        Mr. Bolcom described his work with Mr. Weinstein as a true collaboration, noting that he sometimes outlined the shape of words for Mr. Weinstein to follow, or that Mr. Weinstein -- ''in his Bronx butcher's diction'' -- sometimes outlined an idea of a tune for Mr. Bolcom.
        But ''it was always hard getting him to sit still to work,'' Mr. Bolcom said. ''He was a real party boy. We seemed to work better long distance.'' For their opera collaborations, Mr. Bolcom faxed vocal scores to Mr. Weinstein's apartment in the Chelsea Hotel, where he lived for the last decades of his life. Since Mr. Weinstein did not play piano, a downstairs neighbor would run through the music for him.
        His work with Paul Sills, the founder of Second City Theater in Chicago, helped cement Mr. Weinstein's love of improvisational theater and adaptation. ''An adaptation gives you a funny kind of limitation that makes it easier to improvise,'' he said in a 1992 interview.
        In 1999, he spoke to The New York Times about working on Mr. Miller's ''View From the Bridge.''
        ''You're not just rendering it,'' he said. ''If that's all you do, the playwright loses. He loses his nuances of language and he doesn't have the fun of discovering anything new about the piece.'' He said that he had told Mr. Miller, ''This play is strong enough to take a lot of kicking around, and I think it wants the exercise.''
        He was married and divorced three times. None of those marriages produced children, but he did have one daughter, Cynthia Slade, who died several years ago. He is survived by a sister, Gloria, in Greenlawn, N.Y., and four nieces.
      