
        Kathy Wilson, who as head of the National Women's Political Caucus in the 1980's lobbied on behalf of issues affecting women's lives, from the proposed equal rights amendment to the right to an abortion, died on Sept. 1 while vacationing in Rehoboth Beach, Del. She was 54 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Ms. Wilson died in her sleep, apparently of heart failure, her sister-in-law Ann Goodrich said.
        Founded in 1971, the National Women's Political Caucus is a bipartisan group that seeks to foster women's participation in the political process. Ms. Wilson was its chairwoman for two terms, from 1981 to 1985, and was previously its first vice chairwoman. In recent years, Ms. Wilson worked in early childhood education, the field in which she originally trained.
        Among the changes Ms. Wilson advocated during her tenure were the election of more women to public office, the appointment of women to cabinet and other high-level government positions and equal pay for women.
        An almost life-long Republican, she became an outspoken critic of President Ronald Reagan and supported the candidacy of Walter F. Mondale and Geraldine A. Ferraro in the 1984 presidential race.
        ''I believe in individual rights and the absence of government interference in those rights,'' she told People magazine in 1983. She added: ''I have worked for scores of Republican candidates, but I'm not going to toe the party line when I have a president who seeks to send me down the time tunnel as a woman.''
        Kathleen Anne Higdon was born in Quonset Point, R.I., the daughter of a Navy pilot and a homemaker. The family moved wherever her father's job took them, settling in St. Louis when she was a teenager. The Higdons were ardent Republicans, and much of Ms. Wilson's ideology was forged at the dining-room table.
        Ms. Wilson earned a bachelor's degree in education, with a concentration in special education, from the University of Missouri in 1973; she married a fellow student, Paul O. Wilson, the next year. In 1976, she earned a master's in education from Missouri.
        After college, Ms. Wilson worked briefly as a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines, a job that she quickly came to loathe, her family said. She then worked in the convention sales department of a Kansas City hotel; in less than a year, she was the top saleswoman there. But after spending several months training two male employees to do the job, Ms. Wilson discovered that they were being paid $100 more a month than she was.
        ''I walked out,'' she told The New York Times in 1981, ''and joined the women's movement.''
        Moving to Washington in 1977 to work as a research analyst for the Department of Labor, Ms. Wilson remained politically active. She founded several chapters of the women's political caucus, including its Northern Virginia chapter, before becoming involved with the national organization.
        Ms. Wilson's full-time entry into politics coincided with her years as a young mother. When her children were small, she often took them to out-of-town engagements, presenting what she viewed as a living demonstration of the compatibility of career and family. She attended the 1980 Republican National Convention -- visibly pregnant -- with a button supporting abortion rights pinned conspicuously to her lapel.
        Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
        For the last 14 years, Ms. Wilson worked as the director of a preschool in Alexandria. A few years ago, her sister-in-law said, she left the Republican Party.
      