
        Lewis E. Platt, who rose from an entry-level engineer to become the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, died on Thursday at his home in Petaluma, Calif. He was 64.
        His death was announced by the company, which did not give a cause.
        During his tenure as chief of Hewlett-Packard from 1992-99, Mr. Platt was known for his low-key management style, straightforward manner and an engineering attitude applied to the executive suite. Yet he also displayed a determined, even impassioned, nature when he decided that matters of principle were at stake -- and not just at Hewlett-Packard.
        This year, when Mr. Platt was serving as the lead board member and nonexecutive chairman of Boeing, he quickly began an investigation after receiving an anonymous tip that the chief executive, Harry C. Stonecipher, was having an affair with a company executive. Mr. Stonecipher admitted the affair, and he was asked to resign, Mr. Platt said, because his behavior was ''inconsistent with Boeing's code of conduct'' and ''reflected poorly on his judgment and would impair his ability to lead going forward.''
        Under Mr. Platt, Hewlett-Packard, the computer and printer company, prospered in the 1990's, but it seemed slow to recognize the rise of the Internet and did not benefit as much as most of its competitors from the resulting investment boom. To try to make Hewlett-Packard a more nimble company, Mr. Platt spun off the medical instruments business, which is where he began his career.
        In 1999, Hewlett-Packard decided to recruit an outsider as chief executive. Mr. Platt supported the move and helped lead the search for his successor, Carleton S. Fiorina. She came from Lucent, the telecommunications equipment maker, with a background in sales and marketing, and she brought a high-profile executive style of leadership.
        At first, Mr. Platt backed Ms. Fiorina as an energetic outsider with fresh ideas. But later, when she championed a controversial merger with Compaq, the personal computer maker, Mr. Platt opposed her and her leadership.
        As an influential board member of the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, the single largest shareholder of Hewlett-Packard, Mr. Platt was an outspoken critic of the deal, saying it would saddle the company with a large personal computer business, an industry with slender profits and fierce competition.
        The shareholders narrowly approved the Compaq purchase in 2002. The merger failed to produce the anticipated profits, and Ms. Fiorina was ousted from Hewlett-Packard this year. Born on April 11, 1941, Mr. Platt grew up in Johnson City, N.Y., and went to Cornell University, where he majored in mechanical engineering, and then earned a master's degree in business administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
        He joined Hewlett-Packard in 1966 as an engineer. He fit in smoothly as an ambitious young manager in a company founded by two business-minded engineers, William Hewlett and David Packard.
        After leaving Hewlett-Packard, Mr. Platt served for two years as the chief executive of a much smaller company, Kendall-Jackson Wine Estates. As a wine enthusiast with a 2,500-bottle cellar at home, Mr. Platt enjoyed the new job with its absence of corporate bureaucracy. ''I'm actually back doing things,'' he said in an interview in 2000. ''I've had more trouble convincing my friends this is work.''
        Mr. Platt is survived by his wife, Joan Ellen, and his four daughters, Caryn, Laura, Amanda and Hillary.
      