
        Rabbi Balfour Brickner, a voice of Reform Judaism on issues like race and abortion and the rabbi emeritus of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue in Manhattan, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J., and Stockbridge, Mass.
        His death was announced to the congregation, which he had served as senior rabbi from 1980 until he reached emeritus status in 1992, by Senior Rabbi Ammiel Hirsch. The cause was given as lung cancer. At his death he was also executive director of the Engelberg Foundation.
        Balfour Brickner was a rabbi for more than half a century and a noted activist. He took part in the civil rights struggle and the Vietnam antiwar movement and was a founder of Religious Leaders for a Free Choice, a New York group supporting a woman's right to choose abortion.
        He was jailed while demonstrating for voting rights in the South in the 1960's. He became a Zionist as a teenager, but, recognizing the plight of Palestinians, he warned against Israeli expansionism in the protracted Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
        Rabbi Brickner was named for Lord Balfour and the Balfour Declaration, in which Britain supported a Jewish homeland in Palestine. He became a disciple of Stephen Samuel Wise, the Hungarian-born Zionist and Reform leader who helped persuade President Woodrow Wilson to endorse the Balfour Declaration. Rabbi Wise founded the Free Synagogue in 1909 and helped start the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        Rabbi Brickner was born in Cleveland on Nov. 18, 1926, and grew up in a Zionist family as the son of a Cleveland Reform rabbi and outspoken Zionist. His parents believed, he said later, that all Jews who wanted to should have a country of their own to live in.
        He graduated from the University of Cincinnati in 1948. He was ordained a Reform rabbi at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in 1952, the year he founded Temple Sinai in Washington, where he served for 10 years.
        In 1961 he moved to New York as co-director of the National Commission on Social Action of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the central organization of Reform Judaism, a position he held until 1980. He also founded its national Commission on Inter-Religious Affairs and for 19 years directed its work to strengthen relations between Christians and Jews.
        His antiwar activism took him to Paris to meet with representatives of the Vietcong and to visit Vietnam with an inter-religious peace delegation. For seven years beginning in the 1960's he was also host of the syndicated radio program of music and drama ''Adventures in Judaism.''
        Rabbi Brickner raised hackles among fellow Zionists for his opposition to the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982 and was criticized for calling Lebanon and the occupied Palestinian territories ''Israel's Vietnam.'' He remained committed to the search for reconciliation and peace in the Middle East.
        He brought his vision of liberal Judaism to the pulpit at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, on West 68th Street in Manhattan. His message emphasized social action and lay leadership. He spoke out against American policies toward Central America and corporate involvement in South Africa under apartheid and for the rights of Palestinians and environmental safeguards.
        He brought a more participatory style of worship to Stephen Wise, and according its historian made both himself and the sanctuary more accessible to the congregation and the clergy.
        Rabbi Brickner, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by his companion, Marcia Lawrence Soltes, of Fort Lee; two sons, Rabbi Barnet Brickner of Columbus, Ohio, and Adam, of Baltimore; a sister, Joy Rabinowitz of Weston, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
        Rabbi Brickner's writings touched on a wide range of religious and philosophical questions. His last book was ''Finding God in the Garden: Backyard Reflections on Life, Love and Compost'' (Little, Brown; 2002), a contemplation of his life, theology and philosophy, mixed with thoughts about current events, God, sex and gardening.
      