
        Robert Denning, an interior decorator whose lush interpretations of French Victorian décor became an emblem of corporate-raider tastes in the 1980's, died on Aug. 26 at his home in New York. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, Paul Besser.
        A silver-haired fixture of society in Paris and New York, Mr. Denning was the partner of Vincent Fourcade in Denning & Fourcade, one of the most famous and successful decorating firms of its time. Mr. Fourcade died in 1992.
        The firm's inspiration was the velvet-swathed, antiques-studded and somewhat suffocating interiors that had been famously associated with the Rothschild banking family since the late 19th century.
        As a friend, David McJonathan-Swarm, explained in a telephone interview on Wednesday: ''Vincent's job was to keep the clients buying signed pieces of expensive furniture. Bob was grand, too, but all he really cared about was the effect.''
        Mr. Denning's search for the most opulent of effects was part of a lifelong reaction to a decoration-deprived childhood, his family and friends suggested.
        Mr. Denning was born in the Bronx on March 13, 1927. His parents were immigrants from Russia and Poland, and he was named Robert Dennis Besser. His father, Jacob, was a milliner; his mother, the former Jean Rosen, became an insurance agent with Mutual of Omaha. A childhood bereft of lampshades but rich in bare light bulbs led Mr. Denning to daydream about having a maid, a chauffeur, a Rolls-Royce and a mansion, his brother said. Initially, he believed those goals could be achieved as a concert pianist.
        In 1942, when Mr. Denning was a student at the High School of Music and Art, he met Edgar de Evia, an aristocratic Mexican-born medical researcher, and became his companion and eventual business partner.
        Mr. Denning, who soon changed his name -- as well as his appearance, through plastic surgery -- and Mr. de Evia, who became a prominent commercial photographer, went on to found a real estate company and become owners of an estate in Greenwich, Conn. They also lived on three floors of one of the grandest houses in Manhattan, the Gertrude Rhinelander Waldo mansion, an 1898 faux-French chateau at Madison Avenue and 72nd Street. Today the building houses the flagship store for Polo Ralph Lauren.
        In 1959, Mr. Denning became involved with Vincent Fourcade, a playboy scion of a French banking family, and left Mr. de Evia. Though neither Mr. Denning nor Mr. Fourcade had any practical decorating experience, Mr. Fourcade had grown up amid antiquarian splendor, and Mr. Denning had designed and made sets for his former companion's photography commissions.
        Encouraged by well-connected supporters like Ethel Fogg Clift (whose son was the actor Montgomery Clift) and with the background of the opulent décor of the Rhinelander mansion (where Mr. Denning continued to live for some time after his separation from Mr. de Evia), the newly minted decorators were soon hired by Lillian and Ogden Phipps for major work on their house on Long Island.
        By the 1980's, Denning & Fourcade was renowned for colorful rooms densely outfitted with rare 18th- and 19th-century antiques, museum-quality art and sumptuous fabrics that would not have looked out of place at the Vatican.
        ''Outrageous luxury is what our clients want,'' Mr. Fourcade once explained.
        Among Denning & Fourcade's clients were the fashion designers Oscar de la Renta and Diane von Furstenberg, the philanthropist Jayne Wrightsman, the billionaire Henry R. Kravis and Henry A. Kissinger.
        The extravagance of Mr. Kravis's apartment on Park Avenue, which he shared with Carolyne Roehm, then his wife, was particularly astounding. A version of it appeared as the onscreen home of the bond salesman Sherman McCoy (portrayed by Tom Hanks) and his interior-decorator wife, Judy (Kim Cattrall), in ''Bonfire of the Vanities,'' the 1990 movie based on Tom Wolfe's novel.
        In addition to his brother, of North Miami Beach, Mr. Denning is survived by a nephew, Richard Besser of Davie, Fla., and a niece, Suzanne Sneider of Palm City, Fla.
        In recent years, Mr. Denning worked in a lighter version of his grand style. He also startled some observers by offering unexpectedly budget-conscious advice.
        ''I know I'm probably being unwise,'' Mr. Denning would sheepishly say before starting an enthusiastic explanation of how to achieve, in cut-rate fashion, the same details for which he had charged so many clients so much for more than four decades.
      