
        Sir Joseph Rotblat, a physicist who was the only scientist to quit working on developing the atomic bomb for moral reasons and who won the Nobel Peace Prize a half-century later for his worldwide campaign to eliminate nuclear weapons, died Wednesday night in London. He was 96.
        His death was announced by the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, which he and other scientists founded in 1957.
        Dr. Rotblat, a Polish-born physicist, was 87 when the Nobel committee awarded the 1995 peace prize to him and the Pugwash conferences for convening scientists, scholars and, later, political leaders, from both East and West ''to diminish the part played by nuclear arms in international politics and in the long run to eliminate such arms.''
        ''We have been trying for 40 years to save the world, sometimes against the world's wishes,'' Mr. Rotblat said.
        The Pugwash meetings for many years provided the only channel of communications between scientists who knew one another personally or through their publications to speak to each another as individuals, not as representatives of countries or organizations, about the technicalities of disarmament and arms control.
        Their meetings were able to range more widely than those of diplomats operating under strict instructions from their governments. Historians credit them with laying the groundwork for the Partial Test Ban Treaty of 1963, the Nonproliferation Treaty of 1968, the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty of 1972, the Biological Weapons Convention of 1972 and the Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993.
        Dr. Rotblat led the talks from the first meeting in 1957, held in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, until 1997. In 1955 he was a principal author of the manifesto that inspired them. That declaration had been signed by Albert Einstein, who died before the meeting, and Bertrand Russell, who could not attend because he was ill.
        ''Remember your humanity, and forget the rest,'' it said.
        That statement and the Pugwash gatherings challenged the prevailing view that scientists should stick to science. Because they best knew the powers of technology, Dr. Rotblat and his colleagues believed they had no choice but to address political questions.
        Initially calling for destroying all nuclear weapons, the conferences became more nuanced in both issues and proposed solutions as the big powers reached a precarious balance of terror. The Pugwash experts, without ever renouncing their goal of disarmament, took on the tangled, intricate issues of arms control.
        No matter how technical some of these issues were, Dr. Rotblat found himself buffeted by strong and conflicting outside forces. Some, particularly conservatives in the Reagan administration, accused him of being a servant or unwitting tool of the Soviet Union. Others saw him as a symbol of resistance: the Nobel committee said his prize was partly a protest against Chinese and French nuclear tests.
        Joseph Rotblat was born in Warsaw on Nov. 4, 1908, one of seven children of prosperous Jewish parents. He went to work at 15 as an electrician, but managed to pass the entrance exams to University of Warsaw by studying at night. In 1930, he met and married Tola Gryn, a literature student.
        Enthralled with Einstein's discoveries about the nature of energy, he obtained a master's degree and a doctorate in physics. In 1939, he won a research fellowship to Liverpool University, where he studied with Sir James Chadwick, the discoverer of the neutron. His wife stayed in Warsaw because the fellowship's stipend was small.
        When his stipend increased, he returned to Poland to fetch his wife. She was ill and could not leave. The day after he left for London without her, Hitler invaded Poland. He tried to rescue her, but never saw her again.
        He never remarried, explaining that he never learned anything ''definite'' about his wife. He left no immediate survivors.
        On his return trip to Poland, Dr. Rotblat visited Ludwik Wertenstein, director of the Radiological Laboratory of Warsaw. Dr. Rotblat showed him some calculations he had done on how an atomic bomb could be made and asked, ''Should I be doing this?''
        Dr. Wertenstein answered that he himself would not work on such a project. ''This wasn't a great help, I'm afraid,'' Dr. Rotblat said.
        After the war started, Dr. Rotblat decided the only way to stop Hitler from making an atomic bomb was to make sure the Allies could threaten retaliation in kind. Back in Britain, Dr. Chadwick told him to go ahead with his research. In 1944, Dr. Rotblat and Dr. Chadwick became members of the British team assigned to the Manhattan Project to help build a bomb.
        As the Allies began to win the war without an atomic bomb, Dr. Rotblat felt deeper and deeper misgivings about the project. His colleagues responded that it was important to see the experiment through, but late in 1944 Dr. Chadwick told him that intelligence indicated the Germans were not working on a nuclear weapon.
        Dr. Rotblat left the project after nine months on it. After the war, he was visited by American intelligence agents who accused him of spying for the Soviet Union and planning to fly from Britain into Poland to give atomic secrets to the Soviets.
        He convinced the agents of his loyalty, but was threatened with arrest if he divulged his reasons for quitting the Manhattan Project. He was banned from entering the United States until 1951.
        Allegations of being a spy, or at least a Russian sympathizer, continued, but no proof was established. In 1997, he addressed the accusations in an interview, saying he would never spy on his government. He said he would publicly blow the whistle on his country if it was ''a threat to humanity,'' but never to a foreign country wanting to ''engage in the same wrong.''
        In 1995, in an interview with William J. Broad of The New York Times, he was asked if he thought that past atomic spying by the Soviet Union on the United States was a good thing if it helped level the precarious balance in which the two superpowers were caught. He said yes, under some circumstances.
        ''My philosophy is to never say never,'' he said.
        After he left Los Alamos, N.M., home of the Manhattan Project, he returned to Dr. Chadwick's lab in Liverpool. He remained silent until the United States dropped atomic bombs on Japan, then began giving talks in England to convince his fellow scientists of the need for a moratorium on nuclear weapons.
        In 1949, he joined the Medical College of St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London where he led studies on the effect of radiation on living organisms.
        After the American test of a hydrogen bomb in Bikini Atoll in 1954, he met Bertrand Russell on the set of the BBC Television program ''Panorama.'' Lord Russell started to come to him to ask for information about the bomb, then decided to get eminent scientists from around the world to join in issuing a statement on the dangers of thermonuclear war.
        They soon had the enthusiastic support of Einstein. Dr. Rotblat was the youngest of the 11 who signed the manifesto, and was the last to die. Signers included nine Nobel Prize winners, including Einstein, Linus Pauling, Frederic Joliot-Curie, the German physicist Max Born and the Japanese physicist Hideki Yukawa.
        The scientists got the backing of Cyrus Eaton, a Canadian industrialist and self-styled global peacemaker, who offered money and his boyhood home in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, for their gathering. Mr. Eaton thought the scientists might get lost in the rush of events if they met in a big city, but could attract attention in a remote location.
        Only 22 people attended, but they included Aleksandr Topchiyev, vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, and George Brock Chisholm, first director general of the World Health Organization. ''What 22 people!'' Dr. Rotblat said.
        The conference's report concerned the radiation hazards of nuclear testing and made recommendations on arms control and the social responsibilities of scientists. The conclusions were sent to leaders of the United States, the Soviet Union, Canada, Britain and the Soviet Academy of Scientists. Only Prime Minister Harold Macmillan, leader of Dr. Rotblat's adopted country, did not reply.
        Over the years, Dr. Rotblat's off-the-record meetings of Nobel laureates came to include government advisers and well-connected academics from both sides of the Iron Curtain. The resultant lines of communication aided the passing of vital information during the Cuban missile crisis, the Vietnam War and other times of tension.
        An example was Henry A. Kissinger's role as an intermediary for the United States in talks with North Vietnam on a bombing halt before he joined the Nixon administration.
        ''Pugwash played a major, pioneering role, starting before everyone else, in helping soften the edges of the cold war, and taming it,'' Charles William Maynes, a former editor of Foreign Policy, once observed. He cited the greater openness of people speaking unofficially.
        For example, at the Lake Palace Hotel in Udaipur, India, in 1964, American scientists with connections to the Defense Department suggested banning antimissile missiles. The Soviets questioned why anyone would give up the right to intercept a missile heading for its own border.
        Over the ensuing three years an antimissile ban continued to be discussed at Pugwash meetings. Finally, in 1967, at a hotel on the shore of the Black Sea in Sochi, Yevgeny Velikhov, director of the Kurchatov Institute, a huge weapons research center in the Soviet Union, rose and said he had changed his mind.
        ''Moses cast his rod on the ground and it became not only a serpent -- but all the serpents of hell,'' he said, explaining his position that defensive missiles would just spawn more offensive ones. Five years later, during the Nixon administration, the Antimissile Treaty was signed.
        Since Communism sputtered out in 1989, Pugwash has redefined its mission for a world without two distinct power centers. In particular, it has brought together scientists, experts and policy makers to discuss ways to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons, particularly to terrorists. The original goal of disarmament persists.
        In 1993, Dr. Rotblat and the Pugwash Conferences published a book titled ''Nuclear-Weapon-Free World: Is It Desirable? Is It Feasible?'' and translated it into seven languages. It argued that dividing the world into countries that are allowed to have nuclear weapons and those that are not is hardly a basis for stability. The solution, the book said, is to eliminate nuclear weapons entirely as well as to change political systems to end war itself.
        Some experts see this solution as naïve. George Rathjens, a physical chemistry professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was once chairman of the American chapter of the Pugwash Conferences, said: ''If the United States were to disarm and Britain kept its nuclear weapons, I would not be upset. But if Libya did, I certainly would not be happy.''
        Dr. Rathjens said Sir Joseph was not interested in such nitty-gritty details, but was ''a very great man'' because of his broad vision.
        By contrast, Richard N. Perle, assistant secretary of state in the Reagan administration, said the Pugwash leaders were ''definitely Communist dupes.'' He cited the antimissile treaty, he said, because he believed it served Soviet purposes.
        Sir Joseph's response was that he and his colleagues ''were never working for the Russians in any way to make life sweeter for them.'' He declared: ''We were working for the whole of civilization.''
        In 1996, he convened the 208th Pugwash Conference, in Hiroshima, and, a few days later, he addressed a seminar in Nagasaki.
        Sir Joseph was knighted in 1998.
        Courtly and brimming with Old World charm, and fired by the enthusiasm of a man half his age, Sir Joseph traveled the world, sometimes making three speeches a day on disarmament.
        ''Once I get on this subject, I'm always energized,'' he said.
      