
        R.L. Burnside, a blues singer and guitarist who found fame only in his gray years, when his music was embraced by young rock fans and remixed with electronic beats, died yesterday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 78 and lived near Holly Springs, Miss.
        The cause was unknown, said Matthew Johnson, the founder of Mr. Burnside's record label, Fat Possum.
        With a raw, unadorned electric guitar style and hypnotic one-chord songs, Mr. Burnside's music was seen by critics as a link to the sound of Muddy Waters and Mississippi Fred McDowell. That might not have been a coincidence: Mr. Burnside, who was born in Harmontown, Miss., grew up near McDowell and learned to play guitar from him, and said that a cousin of his had married Muddy Waters.
        But Mr. Burnside's music had a rough, obstinate energy that also appealed to contemporary rock musicians and fans, and in the 1990's, after decades of obscurity, Mr. Burnside began to find wide success. In 1991, in his mid-60's, he signed with Fat Possum, based in Oxford, Miss. One of his first albums for that label, ''Too Bad Jim,'' was produced by Robert Palmer, a former pop critic for The New York Times.
        Soon he was performing as an opening act for the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion, an avant-garde rock band. Mr. Burnside continued to record for Fat Possum; his most recent album for the label was ''A Bothered Mind'' last year. He also collaborated with the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion on an album released by Matador Records in 1996. One of Mr. Burnside's albums, ''Come On In,'' remixed his music with electronic beats.
        Mr. Burnside continued to cross over to mainstream audiences as he entered his 70's. One of his songs was included in the soundtrack to ''The Sopranos'' in 1999, and another was used in a Nissan commercial in 2002. The New Yorker, in an article about Fat Possum and Mr. Johnson, reported that Mr. Burnside had earned around $175,000 in 2001.
        In his recordings, Mr. Burnside's music could be gentle, but in concert it had a blare (and volume) closer to AC/DC than Muddy Waters. Usually sitting down during the shows, Mr. Burnside cut an odd figure, smirking quizzically and making few remarks to the crowd. A former sharecropper from one of the most segregated areas of the Deep South, he often seemed bemused by his popularity among white rock fans and celebrities.
        ''He was a happy-go-lucky nihilist,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''He took things exactly as they were. No more, no less.''
        Except for a brief time in Chicago during his youth, Mr. Burnside spent most of his life in the poor hill country of northern Mississippi, and his experience with the music industry had been slight before the 1990's. He had been recorded by the folklorist George Mitchell in the late 1960's, but through the 1970's and 1980's, he was little known outside Mississippi.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice Mae Burnside; 12 children; and numerous grandchildren.
      