
        Eugene Desmond O'Kelly, the former chairman and chief executive of KPMG's United States unit, died Saturday night in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 53.
        The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by KPMG, the fourth-largest accounting firm in the United States, with 20,000 employees.
        Mr. O'Kelly served as head of the KPMG unit from April 2002 until June 2005, when he stepped down for medical treatment.
        During Mr. O'Kelly's time as chairman, the firm endured investigations by the Internal Revenue Service and federal prosecutors into tax shelters it had sold to wealthy clients from 1996 until 2002.
        In late 2003, Mr. O'Kelly began telling the firm's directors that the firm needed to take ''a new direction,'' according to an article in The New York Times in August.
        KPMG first acknowledged ''unlawful conduct'' in the creation and sale of the tax shelters about 10 days after Mr. Kelly stepped aside as chairman.
        Last month, the firm settled the federal criminal investigation and agreed to pay $456 million.
        Timothy P. Flynn, the new chairman of the firm, said Mr. O'Kelly put KPMG on the path to recovery. ''He made some fundamental changes in how we run our business,'' he said.
        Mr. Flynn said that Mr. O'Kelly lived for only about three months after his cancer was diagnosed.
        KPMG has commissioned a book tentatively called ''Chasing Daylight'' to capture Mr. O'Kelly's thoughts on living and dying, Mr. Flynn said.
        A graduate of Pennsylvania State University with an M.B.A. from Stanford University, Mr. O'Kelly joined KPMG in San Francisco in 1972.
        He became a partner in 1982 and was appointed to the management committee in 1998.
        He is survived by his wife, Corinne; two daughters, Eugenia O'Kelly and Marianne Pearson; two grandchildren, Charlotte Pearson and Oliver Pearson; his mother, Marian O'Kelly; two sisters, Linda O'Kelly, of Monmouth, N.J., and Rose Sherman, of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.; and a brother, William O'Kelly, of Napa, Calif.
      