
        Wellington Mara, the patriarch of the National Football League, who served as a ball boy for the leather-helmeted 1925 Giants and later turned the team -- founded by his father -- into one of the marquee names in professional sports, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 89.
        The cause was cancer of the lymph nodes, the Giants said.
        Mr. Mara had a front-row seat in the world of pro sports going back to the afternoon of Oct. 18, 1925, when the Giants played their first home game, losing to the Frankford Yellow Jackets. He witnessed the famed Sneakers Game, when the Giants outmaneuvered the Chicago Bears by wearing rubber-soled footgear in the 1934 championship game on a frozen Polo Grounds field.
        After 31 seasons at the Polo Grounds, Mr. Mara took the Giants to Yankee Stadium in 1956, and they became the glamour franchise of the N.F.L., winning the league championship that season and playing in the title game five times in the next seven years.
        Mr. Mara moved the Giants again, to the New Jersey Meadowlands, in 1976, despite an outcry led by the city's mayor at the time, John V. Lindsay, when the plans were announced several years earlier. The Giants went to the Super Bowl three times after that, winning it twice, and their games at the 76,000-seat Giants Stadium are invariably sellouts.
        Through the decades, Mr. Mara remained an owner who was also a gentleman of the old school, a serious businessman and a serious fan maintaining a careful reserve in contrast to more voluble or explosive sports executives. At Giants road games, he often sat in the press box, watching quietly, expressing his thoughts in a low voice, projecting the aura of a man who had been through countless triumphs and travails and could take them all in stride.
        A fixture at practices, always low-key and polite, Mr. Mara was also a man who appreciated coaches of the old school. Bill Parcells, a disciplinarian, was one of his favorites.
        Mr. Mara assembled the fabled Giants teams of the 1950's and 60's; they included Frank Gifford, Kyle Rote, Y.A. Tittle, Sam Huff, Andy Robustelli, Roosevelt Brown and Roosevelt Grier. And he helped fuel the immense prosperity that all the N.F.L. franchises enjoy by championing a formula in which all the teams share equally in national television broadcast revenue.
        He devoted his life to his large family, his Catholic faith and his extended Giants family, whose members revered him for his integrity and kindness.
        ''One of the things I miss the most this year is seeing him at every practice, sitting on that golf chair he always had,'' Giants running back Tiki Barber said. ''After games, you'd walk into the locker room and he'd be standing right there to shake your hand, win or lose. He was such a dignified and in some ways regal character who always respected the game and respected what this league is about.''
        Two Generations in Hall
        Tim Mara, the Giants' founder, who died in 1959, was a charter member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Wellington Mara, the Giants' president and co-chief executive officer, was elected to the Hall in 1997 as the Maras became the first father and son to be inducted.
        Preston Robert Tisch, the chairman of the Loews Corporation, purchased a 50 percent interest in the Giants in 1991, but they remain very much a Mara family enterprise with three of Wellington Mara's 11 children holding administrative posts.
        Wellington Timothy Mara was born in New York City on Aug. 14, 1916. The N.F.L. was five years old when Tim Mara, a legal bookmaker before parimutuel betting arrived in New York, bought the rights to put a team in New York City. He paid either $500 or $2,500, the exact figure lost in the mists of football history.
        ''My earliest recollection of the Giants was on a Sunday morning in the autumn of 1925,'' Mr. Mara told Richard Whittingham in ''Giants: In Their Own Words.''
        ''I was about 9 years old. We were coming out of Mass, and I remember my father saying to one of his friends, 'I'm gonna try to put pro football over in New York today.' Then I recall going to the game. I don't think my father had ever seen a football game before. I had seen one or two -- my brother, Jack, had taken me to a couple of Fordham games.
        ''I remember our coach, Bob Folwell, a former Navy coach, turning to one of the players on the bench -- his name was Paul Jappe -- and saying, 'Jappe, get in there and give 'em hell!' I thought, 'Boy, this is really a rough game.'''
        Wellington continued to help out at practices, shining shoes and running errands. At age 16, four years before the first N.F.L. draft, he put together a list of the top pro prospects in college.
        He graduated from Loyola High School in Manhattan, then entered Fordham University. While there, he heard about Tuffy Leemans, a fine running back at George Washington University, and went to see him on campus. Leemans thought at first that his visitor was simply a young man seeking an autograph, but he eventually signed with the Giants and became a Hall of Famer.
        Working His Way Up
        Mr. Mara began working for the Giants full time after he graduated from Fordham in 1937. He was a Navy officer during World War II, then returned to the Giants and oversaw personnel while his brother, Jack, concentrated on business affairs.
        He scouted, supervised draft selections, and during the 1950's became one of the league's early eye-in-the-sky aides, taking photos of opposing defenses with Polaroid cameras from atop Yankee Stadium and dropping them in weighted socks to Vince Lombardi, the offensive coach and his Fordham classmate.
        He drafted Gifford, Rote, Brown, Grier, Huff and Jim Katcavage and traded for Tittle, Robustelli, Del Shofner, Dick Lynch and Dick Modzelewski in shaping the powerful Giants teams of the late 1950's and early 60's.
        Pete Rozelle, the commissioner in the early 60's, once recalled how Mr. Mara had also been influential in shaping the N.F.L. national television deal providing for shared revenue. Mr. Rozelle remembered how the Giants were getting $175,000 from CBS under the previous contract -- the highest payout to any team -- while the Green Bay Packers were getting $35,000. ''Well argued that the N.F.L. was only as strong as its weakest link, that Green Bay should receive as much money as any of the other teams,'' Mr. Rozelle said.
        During much of the 1970's, Mr. Mara served as chairman of the executive committee of the N.F.L. Management Council, the owners group that negotiated with the players union.
        When Jack Mara, the Giants' president, died in 1965, Wellington, who was vice president, took over the post. But he became overburdened by handling business matters and directing personnel moves. The Giants made a series of poor draft selections and failed to rebuild as their longtime stars departed.
        The Giants had only two winning seasons from 1964 to 1980 while the Jets gained the spotlight for a time, buoyed by Joe Namath's leading them to a Super Bowl victory in January 1969.
        Mr. Mara announced in 1971 that the Giants would leave Yankee Stadium for a new stadium in New Jersey, but before it could be built, New York City officials essentially evicted the team when they began a renovation for the benefit of the Yankees. The Giants played at the Yale Bowl in New Haven and at Shea Stadium until Giants Stadium was completed in 1976.
        Low Moment for Giants
        The franchise's low moment came on Nov. 19, 1978, with the play known as the Fumble, when Giants quarterback Joe Pisarcik, needing only to fall on the ball to secure a victory against the Eagles, handed it off. The ball went astray, and Eagles defensive back Herman Edwards -- the future Jets coach -- scooped it up and ran for a game-winning touchdown. Three weeks later, during a game against the Cardinals, a fan flew a private plane over Giants Stadium with a streamer reading ''15 Years of Lousy Football -- We've Had Enough.'' There were more than 24,000 empty seats, and many of the fans who did show up chanted, ''We've had enough.''
        ''People said we were cheap and didn't care if we won, because all our games were sold out,'' Mr. Mara told The New York Times in 2001, recalling the 1970's. ''That got under my skin. We weren't cheap. We were just stupid. We made a lot of poor personnel decisions on the football field. That's why we lost.''
        Coach John McVay was fired after that 6-10 season in 1978, and Robustelli, a former star defensive end for the Giants who had been the team's director of operations since the 1974 season, resigned.
        But Giants management was in turmoil. Wellington Mara and Timmy Mara, Jack Mara's son, who had become vice president after his father's death and whose side of the family controlled half the team, barely spoke to each other. Timmy was convinced that Wellington, who made all the important decisions, was too set in his ways.
        Then Mr. Rozelle recommended that George Young, who had been an executive with the Colts and the Dolphins, take over as general manager in 1979. Mr. Young got the Giants back to the playoffs in 1981, and with Bill Parcells as coach, they went to the Super Bowl in January 1987, defeating the Denver Broncos.
        ''Wellington never told me what to do,'' Mr. Young once said. ''But I listened to him, because he had all this experience. He was an owner who had directly run a football team. People asked me if I consulted him and I told them, 'If I lived next to a great big library, I would take advantage of the great, big library.'''
        Another Super Bowl Victory
        The Giants won a second Super Bowl in 1991, beating the Buffalo Bills, and then Mr. Tisch bought the 50 percent of the team controlled by Jack Mara's family, paying $75 million. The Giants went to the Super Bowl again in 2001, losing to the Baltimore Ravens.
        As co-owner, Mr. Tisch, who has been battling brain cancer, is the Giants' chairman and co-chief executive officer. John K. Mara, Wellington Mara's oldest son, plays a major role in overseeing the Giants' administrative affairs. Wellington Mara's son Chris is vice president for player evaluation and another son, Frank, is director for promotions.
        Mr. Tisch has concentrated on the business side of the Giants' operations and has largely stayed out of football matters, now handled by General Manager Ernie Accorsi with Coach Tom Coughlin.
        The two owners put together a telephone book-sized agreement on the role of each, but both sides have said they never needed to open it once it was signed.
        A meeting of fellow N.F.L. owners scheduled for today and tomorrow to discuss revenue sharing and labor relations was postponed because of Mr. Mara's death.
        Mr. Mara is survived by his wife, the former Ann Mumm, whom he married in 1954; his sons John, Chris, Frank and Stephen; his daughters Susan, Sheila, Kathleen, Maureen, Ann, Meghan and Colleen, and 40 grandchildren.
        Mr. Mara displayed a keen sense of loyalty to the Giants as his larger family. That extended notably to Steve Owen, the captain of the Giants' 1927 team, who served as head coach from 1930 to 1953. The next three head coaches, Jim Lee Howell, Allie Sherman and Alex Webster, had been Giants assistant coaches, and Howell and Webster had played for the Giants. Owen's brother-in-law, Francis J. Sweeny, was the team physician for almost three decades. The Rev. Benedict Dudley was a familiar presence as the Giants' chaplain.
        Although Mr. Mara attended Giants practices and almost all their games, he disliked the news media spotlight and generally shunned public pronouncements. When he spoke to the players late in the 1999 season after two straight blowout losses -- urging them to end the year on a positive note -- it was the first time he had addressed the team in that kind of setting in 30 years.
        In early December 2003, after a loss to Buffalo, Mr. Mara promised changes as the Giants headed toward a dismal finish, taking the rare step of revealing his thoughts to reporters in the locker room.
        ''I don't know exactly what he said, but when he says something it definitely carries all the weight in the world,'' defensive end Michael Strahan remarked at the time.
        Gifford, the Giants' Hall of Fame back, said in a telephone interview yesterday that Mr. Mara ''started as my boss and for a long time was sort of a father figure to me.''
        He recalled a surprise party for Mr. Mara a few years ago attended by some 60 players going back to the 1950's where ''all of them said something about what he'd done for them, whether it was financial or just being there at some important part of their lives.''
        Huff, the Hall of Fame linebacker, said yesterday: ''He was always there. When we were on the field, he was always standing on the side. Our football team wanted to see him there. A lot of football teams don't want to see the owner around. But the Giants did. He was the man.''
      