
        David Eliot McGiffert, a Washington lawyer and former Pentagon official who dealt with domestic security during the antiwar and racial disorders of the late 1960's, died on Oct. 12 at his home in Washington. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart ailment, his family said.
        Mr. McGiffert was under secretary of the Army when protests against the Vietnam War, combined with racial confrontations, prompted the Johnson administration to enlist the military to quell civil disturbances. Later, as assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs under President Jimmy Carter, Mr. McGiffert was cast into Middle Eastern policy and negotiations on military assistance at the time of Soviet armed intervention in Afghanistan.
        A native of Boston, Mr. McGiffert studied at the University of California, Berkeley, before serving in the Navy in World War II. He graduated in 1949 from Harvard, where he also received his law degree in 1953. That year, he joined a Washington firm, Covington & Burling, becoming a partner in 1969 and retiring in 1995.
        Mr. McGiffert first entered the government in 1962 as Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara's assistant for legislative affairs. After being promoted to under secretary of the Army in 1965, he soon faced the repercussions of Vietnam at home, coinciding with demands for desegregation and equal rights.
        Ill-prepared National Guard units were called on to help suppress disturbances in the inner cities, notably the Detroit and Newark riots of 1967. At about that time, in an operation that was to continue until it was ordered halted in 1970, Army agents began feeding the names of thousands of civilians into Army computers and dossiers in a wide-ranging intelligence effort to keep track of radicals suspected of fostering disturbances.
        The military also provided security personnel for the Republican and Democratic National Conventions of 1968, including 6,000 regular Army soldiers placed on alert at bases outside Chicago, where the Democrats were meeting.
        Within months of an antiwar march on the Pentagon in 1967, a Directorate for Civil Disturbance Planning and Operations started working out of a ''domestic war room'' in the Pentagon basement. Defense Secretary McNamara directed Mr. McGiffert to form a civil disturbance steering committee, in which he was joined by Warren M. Christopher, then the deputy attorney general, to review and coordinate the entire domestic role of the federal military.
        As pieced together in Congressional investigations years later, the committee prompted detailed intelligence and tactical planning to meet such contingencies, in an atmosphere freighted with the assassinations in 1968 of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Robert F. Kennedy. Mr. McGiffert left the Army under secretary's post in 1969 but returned as the Pentagon's chief of international security matters in 1977. He was a principal negotiator for the Carter administration's efforts to maintain military security in the Middle East.
        Mr. McGiffert is survived by two daughters from his marriage to Enud McGiffert, a Washington resident from whom he was divorced, Carola McGiffert and Laura M. Slover, both of Washington; his partner, Mitzi Wertheim of Washington; a brother, Michael, of Williamsburg, Va.; a sister, Ellen M. Brokaw of Santa Paula, Calif.; two grandsons and two step-grandchildren.
      