
        Ba Jin, one of China's most acclaimed writers and the author of several influential prerevolutionary novels about the brutality of Chinese feudal family life, died on Monday after a long hospitalization. He was 100.
        The cause was cancer, Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, said in its announcement.
        Mr. Ba was widely considered a literary giant in China, a novelist who had inspired generations of writers and whose fame many here said should long ago have earned him the Nobel Prize in Literature.
        With dozens of novels, essays, short stories and translations, Mr. Ba established himself decades ago as one of China's greatest modern writers. Along with Lu Xun, Mao Dun and Lao She, he helped describe and define modern China's awakening and upheaval early in the 20th century.
        He achieved fame early, in 1931, with what is regarded as his masterpiece, ''Family,'' a brutal portrayal of a large feudal family's disintegration and demise around the turn of the 20th century.
        Semi-autobiographical, the novel alluded to the suicide of his own older brother, couching him as a victim of the decadent feudal family system. It denounced that system of patriarchal control even as it warmly related family gatherings, literary diversions and festivities. The family's younger generation rebelled in a quest for personal and social renewal.
        Several other novels and short stories written in the 1930's and 1940's helped cement his reputation as a great writer capable of describing family and societal ills in pre-revolutionary China; he won plaudits from the Communists in the 1950's.
        But he was persecuted by his own government during the Cultural Revolution, the roughly decade-long period that ended in 1976, in which intellectuals were publicly humiliated and millions of ordinary people and high-level party officials were denounced and sent to labor in the countryside.
        Later, however, he was recognized as one of the nation's literary lions. He was even honored in recent years with a museum about his life in his hometown in western China.
        Two years ago, Wen Jiabao, now the country's premier, paid a visit to Mr. Ba in the hospital where he spent most of the last years of his life, suffering from Parkinson's disease and unable to speak or walk.
        He was born Li Yaotang on Nov. 25, 1904, in Chengdu, to a large wealthy family that he later said existed under a cruel, feudal system that suffocated and poisoned the lives of everyone in the family.
        After growing up with private tutors and receiving a traditional, literary education, he left home to study and travel.
        He later said he was inspired by the May 4 movement of 1919, when students and intellectuals demonstrated and protested the West's harsh treatment and rule over China.
        Soon, he gravitated toward socialist and anarchist writings, and changed his name, to Ba Jin, which was said to have been derived from the names of two of his favorite Russian anarchists, Mikhail Bakunin and Pyotr Kropotkin. (Xinhua, however, said it came from a friend who committed suicide because he detested the world.)
        He went to Paris in 1927 and wrote his first novel, ''Destruction,'' the story of a depressed young anarchist, and then returned to China to write a trilogy, which began with the novel ''Family.''
        He later settled in Shanghai. He was a friend of some of China's leading writers in the 1930's and 1940's, like Lu Xun, now considered the father of modern Chinese literature.
        But during the Cultural Revolution, he later said, he and his family endured great suffering and hardship. He was forced to work in a labor camp, and during that period, in 1972, his wife died after she was denied medical treatment. He said he managed to remain strong during that period by reading Dante's ''Inferno.''
        In 1977, however, he was rehabilitated and in 1981 was elected chairman of the Chinese Writers Association. He never lashed out against China's leadership, but in 1985, he called for an end to restrictions on writers in China and said the country should even build a museum to remember the victims of the Cultural Revolution.
        Xinhua did not provide a list of his survivors, but he is known to have two children, a son and a daughter.
        He continued writing well into his 80's, publishing more than 100 essays. In the 1980's he told reporters that he was writing a book about his experiences during the Cultural Revolution and that he hoped it would be published posthumously. He said he would dedicate the book to his wife.
      