
        Marvin Chodorow, an applied physicist and administrator at Stanford who helped refine the use of microwave tubes in improving radar, telecommunications, cancer treatments and other applications, died Oct. 17 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 92.
        Dr. Chodorow's family confirmed his death.
        In the 1940's, when microwave technology was in its infancy, Dr. Chodorow began his work on tubes known as klystrons, which generate and amplify high frequencies of microwaves. The tubes were developed at Stanford in the 1930's and later became essential in television transmission, missile guidance systems and satellite communications. They are also used in linear accelerators to create beams of radiation to treat cancers.
        Dr. Chodorow helped increase the power of klystrons and contributed to the theory of the reflex klystron tube. From 1959 to 1978, he directed the microwave laboratory at Stanford, where he also served as founding chairman of the department of applied physics.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Chodorow and others experimented with acoustic microwaves and developed an acoustic microscope. A collaborator on the project, Calvin F. Quate, an emeritus professor of engineering at Stanford, said the microscope examined the acoustic properties of surfaces and was commonly used to test the integrity of coverings around semiconductor chips.
        Marvin Chodorow was born in Buffalo and received his undergraduate degree from the University of Buffalo and a doctorate in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1939.
        He taught at the City College of New York and Pennsylvania State University before joining Stanford in 1947. He was named a professor of physics and electrical engineering there in 1954. He then served as executive head of Stanford's division of applied physics from 1962 to 1968.
        In 1964, Dr. Chodorow and Charles Susskind published a textbook, ''Fundamentals of Microwave Electronics'' (McGraw-Hill).
        Dr. Chodorow was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Chodorow is survived by his wife of 68 years, the former Leah Ruth Turitz; two daughters, Joan E. Chodorow of Los Angeles, and Nancy J. Chodorow, a psychoanalyst and sociologist, of Cambridge, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      