
        Leo H. Sternbach, a research chemist who was foremost among the team of scientists who developed Valium, the tranquilizer that has been prescribed to millions of the sleepless and anxiety-ridden since the 1960's, died on Wednesday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 97.
        His longtime employer, Hoffmann-LaRoche, the international drug company based in Nutley, N.J., announced his death.
        The genial image of Dr. Sternbach was well known in psychiatric and pharmacological circles for more than five decades. In his role as a highly productive researcher for Hoffmann-La Roche, he developed products that received more than 200 patents involving chemical innovations.
        Dr. Sternbach helped develop antibiotics, hypnotic drugs and compounds used in bloodless surgery, but he was most widely known for his contribution in producing Valium as well as Librium, a predecessor drug that is also a tranquilizer.
        Librium was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1960. It was soon eclipsed by Valium, also known as diazepam, when it was introduced three years later.
        Dr. Jeffrey A. Lieberman, chairman of the psychiatry department at Columbia, said that Valium had been used successfully in treating depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and alcoholic withdrawal and quickly became ''a cultural symbol in books and movies for the frenzied life of the modern age.''
        ''It represents one of the major milestones of recent psychopharmacology,'' Dr. Lieberman continued, ''and began a transition from drugs that were heavy-handed to drugs that are now much more precise and selective in their activity.''
        Dr. Sternbach, who tried Valium and reported that it made him drowsy, developed the drug from a class of chemical compounds called benzodiazepines. Dr. Sternbach -- working with Lowell Randall, Earl Reeder and others -- also showed that it was relatively safe and effective in further testing on mice and cats.
        The drug imparts a mild euphoria and can be addictive and cause respiratory arrest, if taken in high dosages.
        In 2003, the pharmaceutical industry celebrated the 40th anniversary of Valium's approval and invited Dr. Sternbach to a public celebration.
        ''It's a very good drug,'' he told The New Yorker. ''It has pleasant side effects. It's quite a good sleeping drug, too. That's why it's abused. My wife doesn't let me take it.''
        Leo Henryk Sternbach was born in what is now Croatia. He studied in Poland and earned his doctorate from the University of Krakow in 1930.
        He joined Hoffmann-LaRoche in 1940 and began his career in research at the company's center in Nutley in 1941. He remained there as director of chemistry until his retirement in 1973 and continued to work for the company as a consultant until 2003.
        In 1979, Dr. Sternbach was given the Chemical Pioneer Award from the American Institute of Chemists.
        He is survived by his wife of 64 years, Herta Kreuzer Sternbach. The couple lived in Upper Montclair, N.J., until last year, when they moved to Chapel Hill.
        He is also survived by two sons, Dr. Daniel Sternbach, a research chemist, of Chapel Hill, and Michael, of Little Silver, N.J.; and five grandchildren.
      