
        William Henry McKeon, a former chairman of the New York State Democratic Party who mobilized New Yorkers for John and Robert Kennedy in the early 1960's, died on Friday in Auburn, N.Y. A native and lifelong resident of Auburn, he was 85.
        His death was announced by his family.
        A lawyer by training, Mr. McKeon (he pronounced it Mick-YONE) served as county chairman from 1953 to 1974 and as state chairman from 1962 to 1965. He was a delegate to the party's national nominating conventions through 1976, including the one in 1960 at which the New York delegation helped secure the presidential nomination for Senator John F. Kennedy.
        On that occasion Mr. McKeon, the delegation's vice chairman under Mayor Robert F. Wagner, was in charge of an elaborate telephone system with which he marshaled the troops. He was the first New York county leader to declare for Kennedy in 1960 and became a key ally for his brother, Robert F., when he ran for the Senate in New York in 1964.
        Mr. McKeon was later counsel to committees of the State Legislature from 1967 to 1973 and then sat on the state's Board of Elections until 1983. For 45 years, he was a lawyer in general practice in Auburn, in Cayuga County, retiring about 10 years ago.
        He started in politics with the Cayuga County Young Democrats and helped revive his party's fortunes upstate, where, he said, it took ''a little courage'' to be a Democrat.
        Mr. McKeon worked at an automobile body plant while earning a bachelor's degree in philosophy from the University of Detroit. He interrupted his education for service in North Africa and Europe in World War II, returning as an Army staff sergeant with a Bronze Star.
        He graduated in 1946 from the University of Detroit. While working for a life insurance company and as a school librarian, he earned his law degree at the Fordham University School of Law in 1949.
        Mr. McKeon is survived by his wife of 54 years, Ann Donovan McKeon; three sons, David, of Camillus, N.Y., Judge Michael McKeon of Auburn, and Brian, of Washington; three daughters, Kathleen Neal of Sturbridge, Mass., Maureen McKeon of Dayville, Conn., and Teresa Oberg of Tewksbury, Mass.; a sister, Jane Dodge; three brothers, Robert, of Manhattan, John, of Clearwater, Fla., and Paul Connors of Holiday, Fla.; and 10 grandchildren.
      