
        Richard E. Smalley, the Rice University chemistry professor who shared a Nobel Prize for discovering a new spherical form of carbon and championed the potential of nanotechnology to create a more sustainable economy, died Friday at 62 at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
        The cause was leukemia, a spokesman for Rice said.
        Dr. Smalley, a short, trim man with a fringe of beard and a wry sense of humor, used his renown as a platform to evangelize for increased investment in educating a new generation of scientists and engineers. He also spoke ceaselessly to conferences and business executives about how nanotechnology with its rapidly expanding capacity to reshape materials at the molecular level could transform the economy and address both environmental and energy challenges.
        ''He's like a rock star in technology circles,'' said Robert Gower, chief executive and co-founder with Dr. Smalley of Carbon Nanotechnologies, a company set up to commercialize Dr. Smalley's discoveries, in a 2003 interview.
        Dr. Smalley's scientific breakthrough, which was shared with Harold W. Kroto of the University of Sussex in England and Robert F. Curl Jr., a colleague at Rice, stemmed from Dr. Kroto's efforts to understand the composition of carbon-rich stars. Dr. Kroto arrived at Dr. Smalley's laboratory at Rice in 1985 to set up experiments vaporizing graphite with lasers.
        As the scientists analyzed the results, they encountered a large number of exceptionally stable carbon molecules with 60 atoms. They puzzled over the shape until Dr. Smalley, building models in his kitchen out of paper, figured out that the atoms must be arranged as a soccer ball-like mix of 12 pentagons and 20 hexagons. Because the shape reminded him of the geodesic dome invented by Buckminster Fuller, he called the molecule a ''buckminsterfullerene.''
        The novel molecule, the most spherical ever discovered, was nicknamed the buckyball. The appearance of a new form of carbon in a world that had only known graphite and diamond thrilled chemists and ignited a worldwide race to understand its traits. The fullerene family eventually grew to embrace cylindrical tubes known as carbon nanotubes and numerous variants.
        Depending on their structure, the fullerenes exhibit a variety of eye-opening electrical, chemical and strength characteristics. Buckyballs, in particular, fascinated materials scientists for their lubricating potential -- being round they were ideally formed to slide past other materials -- and the possibility that they could serve as cages for storing or transporting other chemicals.
        In time, the nanotubes, which were discovered by researchers at NEC in Japan in 1991, emerged as the more promising form of fullerene for most commercial applications. But many researchers date the dawn of modern nanotechnology to the excitement ignited by the buckyballs, for which Drs. Kroto, Curl and Smalley shared the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
        Nanotechnology derives its name from the nanometer, which is a billionth of a meter and the size of a small molecule. Researchers have discovered that not just carbon but numerous other materials have novel and potentially valuable traits when formed with dimensions of under 100 nanometers.
        Dr. Smalley was as excited by the commercial potential of nanotechnology as the science. In 2000, he helped -found Carbon Nanotechnologies and became its chairman.
        He also became an outspoken advocate for the National Nanotechnology Initiative, a government-financed research program founded under President Bill Clinton and expanded into a multibillion-dollar investment under President Bush.
        Dr. Smalley was particularly interested in the possibility that carbon nanotubes could one day be woven into long transmission wires that would be far lighter, stronger and more efficient than today's electrical grid. He also saw nanotechnology as the key to producing solar and other renewable energy sources that could replace fossil fuels.
        ''You are about to be in the center of the world,'' he told scientists at the National Renewable Energy Laboratories in Golden, Colo., in a lecture in 2003 outlining the population and resource pressures the world would face as fossil-fuel reserves declined and energy demands rose. ''Clean water is a great example of something that depends on energy. And if you solve the water problem, you solve the food problem.''
        Richard Errett Smalley was born on June 6, 1943, in Akron, Ohio, the son of Frank D. Smalley Jr. and Esther Rhoades. He was the fourth and youngest child in the family, which soon moved to Kansas City, Mo. He was an indifferent student until he found himself competing in a chemistry class with his sister Linda shortly after the launching of Sputnik focused the nation's attention on science.
        ''Before that, I went to bed at night praying for a thermonuclear war so I wouldn't have to turn in my homework,'' Dr. Smalley said in 2003.
        He entered Hope College in Holland, Mich., but transferred to the University of Michigan after two years to complete his undergraduate work. After four years as a research chemist for Shell Oil, he entered Princeton, where he earned a Ph.D. for pioneering work developing high-speed laser systems to study the behavior of individual molecules.
        After three years of postdoctoral research at the University of Chicago, he moved to Rice in 1976. Although he was mainly known as a chemist, he was given the additional position of professor of physics in 1990.
        Dr. Smalley is survived by his fourth wife, the former Deborah Sheffield; a son, Chad, of Houston, from his first marriage to the former Judith G. Sampieri; another son, Preston, of Houston, from his third marriage, to the former JoNell M. Chauvin; a brother, Clayton; two sisters, Linda and Mary Jill; two stepdaughters, Eva and Allison; and one grandchild.
        Dr. Smalley liked to call Preston his true Nobel Prize because he believed the child was conceived in Stockholm when he received his prize.
      