
        John Elliott Jr., who for 17 years led one of the world's largest advertising agencies, Ogilvy & Mather, died on Saturday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 84 and lived in Cross River, N.Y.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his wife, Eleanor Thomas Elliott.
        Mr. Elliott was chairman of Ogilvy & Mather's American operations from 1965 to 1975, and then chairman of the agency's worldwide division from 1975 to 1982. He succeeded David Ogilvy, the agency's founder, in both posts.
        Mr. Elliott, who was known as Jock, landed his first job in advertising in 1945 as a copywriter at what was then Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, now the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. He joined Ogilvy in 1960 to run the newly acquired Shell Oil Company account and quickly began his ascent at the agency. He retired as chairman of Ogilvy & Mather International in 1982.
        ''Big ideas are so hard to recognize, so fragile, so easy to kill,'' Mr. Elliott said in announcing his retirement at the agency's annual meeting in December 1981. ''Don't forget that, all of you who don't have them.''
        Mr. Elliott's dry wit and self-deprecating sense of humor were staples of the many speeches he delivered at advertising industry events. Looking back on his early days as a copywriter, he once said: ''I was pretty good, but not good enough. I could execute campaigns, but never came up with the big ideas, so I went into a less demanding kind of work. I became an account man.''
        Mr. Elliott was a renowned book collector and owned more than 3,000 pieces of Christmas ephemera, ranging from the first appearance of the Christmas story in the Algonquian language to a copy of ''A Christmas Carol'' that Charles Dickens used in public readings. His collection formed the basis of his book ''Inventing Christmas: How Our Holiday Came to Be,'' published in 2002.
        Born in Manhattan, on Jan. 25, 1921, to John and Audrey Osborn Elliott, he went to the Browning School in Manhattan and St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H. He graduated from Harvard in 1942 and was a major in the Marines during World War II.
        Mr. Elliott was a board member of the Wildlife Conservation Society and the public television station WNET. He served as chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the Advertising Council, and was inducted into the Advertising Hall of Fame in 1983.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, Osborn Elliott of New York; and several nieces and nephews.
      