
        Aleksandr N. Yakovlev, a historian, propagandist and diplomat and an architect of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's political reforms in the Soviet Union during the 1980's, died Tuesday at his home in Moscow. He was 81 and died after being hospitalized earlier in the day.
        Once a committed Communist and ideologue, he joined Mr. Gorbachev in advocating a loosening of Soviet economic and political restrictions that, in their view, were stifling personal incentive and initiative.
        The reforms were called perestroika, or restructuring, and glasnost, or openness, and they contributed to the collapse of the Soviet Union, though in ways neither man imagined they would.
        A former ambassador and censor as Soviet censorship was easing, Mr. Yakovlev became Mr. Gorbachev's most influential adviser and one of the most visible. Abroad, he accompanied Mr. Gorbachev during his summit meetings with President Ronald Reagan. At home, he not only championed the freedom of the press to expose and criticize the Soviet Union but also played a role in publicizing some of the grimmer aspects of Soviet history.
        In 1989, he detailed for the Congress of People's Deputies -- the election of which was another result of Mr. Gorbachev's changes -- the consequences of Stalin's secret 1939 pact with Nazi Germany, which paved the way for the division of Poland and the annexation of the Baltic nations.
        Such was his role in the roiling changes that swept the Soviet Union at the time that he became known as ''the godfather of glasnost.'' He was one of the most powerful advocates for democratic change, before and after the Soviet dissolution.
        ''We were able to bring the country to the point of no return,'' Mr. Gorbachev said Tuesday in a telephone interview from London, referring to the democratic evolution that ultimately ended the Soviet Union and, however erratically, continues in Russia today. ''And we did that together.''
        At the end of the Soviet era, though, Mr. Yakovlev broke with his patron and ally over the pace of the changes they were encouraging. In 1989, as political freedoms were sweeping the Soviet bloc nations in Europe, he was sidelined as Mr. Gorbachev turned to hard-liners for support in holding the country together, while Mr. Yakovlev advocated greater political competition.
        Mr. Yakovlev was a founder of the Democratic Reform Movement, a coalition intended to challenge the Communist Party. On Aug. 16, 1991, he quit the Communist Party and warned of an impending ''party and state coup.''
        Three days later a committee of eight party leaders ousted Mr. Gorbachev while he was on vacation in the Crimea. The coup failed three days later, but Mr. Gorbachev's fate was sealed, along with that of the Soviet Union.
        ''Why did he surround himself with people capable of treason?'' Mr. Yakovlev said at the time, in a typically blunt statement.
        Aleksandr Nikolayevich Yakovlev was born on Dec. 2, 1923, in Korolevo, a tiny village near Yaroslavl on the Volga River. He came of age during Stalin's rule, though, as he recalled in an interview with The New York Times in 1988, the purges, deportations and other manifestations of his repressions were only vague hints at the time. They would become a life-long obsession for Mr. Yakovlev.
        He was not yet 18 when Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941, but within months he was at war. In 1943, near Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, he was gravely wounded by machine gun fire that left him partly disabled for the rest of his life. The Soviet victory inspired him. He joined the Communist Party in 1944 and earned a doctorate in history from the party's Academy of Social Sciences in Moscow.
        In 1956, as a young apparatchik in the party's Central Committee, he learned of Nikita Khrushchev's ''secret speech'' disclosing the details of Stalin's terror, sowing the seeds of doubt about Soviet infallibility.
        Beginning in 1958, he studied for a year at Columbia University as part of an exchange program, for which he would never have been chosen had he lacked Communist zeal. For years after returning he wrote several histories of the United States filled with distaste for and mistrust of American social, economic and foreign policy.
        At the same time, his studies in America tainted him at home, at least among suspicious hard-liners, including the last chairman of the Soviet K.G.B., who in 1991 accused him of links with ''Western secret services.''
        He rose through the Soviet ranks, joining the party's propaganda department in 1965, a position he held until 1973. His career then took a detour that signaled a break with unbending Soviet ideology, if not the system.
        He was sent to Canada as the Soviet ambassador, where he languished in a sort of exile from the top ranks in Moscow. His offense, it appeared, was outspokenness, particularly in an article published in 1972 on the dangers of nationalism and anti-Semitism.
        He served in Canada for a decade, and became known as a curious, good-humored contrast to his predecessors. During this period, he befriended a like-minded Mr. Gorbachev. At the time, Mr. Gorbachev was the youngest member of the Politburo, making his international debut. Within two years, he would become the general secretary.
        Within months of meeting with Mr. Gorbachev in Canada, Mr. Yakovlev returned to Moscow at Mr. Gorbachev's invitation -- in the interview, Mr. Gorbachev called the idea ''a lucky move'' -- and together they began carrying out the reforms. Mr. Yakovlev served not only as a kindred spirit and ideological ally, he was also an advocate and intermediary for the writers, editors and other intellectuals testing the limits of the new freedoms.
        Asked by The Times, in 1988, about the failed efforts of Khrushchev and Brezhnev to institute reforms, he referred to a fear of enfranchising the people. ''One of the vital components was overlooked, the decisive component of all changes: democracy,'' he said.
        It is a measure of Mr. Yakovlev's standing in Russia that politicians from across the spectrum honored him on Tuesday -- from liberals to President Vladimir V. Putin. In a letter of condolence released by the Kremlin, Mr. Putin credited Mr. Yakovlev with inspiring ''the democratic renewal of our country, the development of civil society, and the construction of a state based on the rule of law'' -- all ideals Mr. Putin's critics have accused him of eroding.
        He is survived by his wife, Nina; a son, Anatoly; a daughter, Nataliya; seven grandchildren; and one great-grand daughter.
        Like many democrats in the newly independent Russia, Mr. Yakovlev struggled in the years after the Soviet collapse. For a time, in the early 1990's, he joined forces with the country's first democratically elected president, Boris N. Yeltsin. He was the head of the state's television network until he resigned in 1995 amid a debate over the state's role.
        Mr. Gorbachev said he and Mr. Yakovlev had reconciled and continued to meet until recently, discussing ways to strengthen democracy. ''He never wavered in his belief in the future of democracy in Russia,'' he said. ''His life is an important lesson to those who remain committed to a democratic Russia.''
        Mr. Yakovlev wrote prolifically, combing the archives of the Soviet state for new disclosures about the horrors of Lenin and Stalin. He continued to work on the Presidential Committee on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression -- even as the country's willingness to revisit the past waned.
        Last year, he questioned Mr. Putin's commitment to democracy, warning that the committee would soon be disbanded. (So far, it has not.)
        ''Rehabilitation and human rights are seen as an obstacle to the so-called stabilization process,'' he said in a radio interview on Ekho Moskvy. ''If we look at this stabilization closely, we would see something different behind it, namely restoration.''
      