
        Benjamin DeMott, a prominent writer, scholar and cultural critic whose work explored the mythology that underpins contemporary American life, especially collective ideas about race, class and sex, died on Thursday at his home in Worthington, Mass. He was 81 and also had a home in Anna Maria, Fla.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his son Tom said.
        At his death, Mr. DeMott was emeritus professor of English at Amherst College, where he had taught for nearly 40 years. Before retiring from the college in 1990, he was the Mellon professor of humanities there.
        The author of more than a dozen books, Mr. DeMott was best known for a trilogy that examined cultural beliefs in three sensitive areas: ''The Imperial Middle: Why Americans Can't Think Straight About Class'' (William Morrow & Company, 1990); ''The Trouble With Friendship: Why Americans Can't Think Straight About Race'' (Atlantic Monthly Press, 1995); and ''Killer Woman Blues: Why Americans Can't Think Straight About Gender and Power'' (Houghton Mifflin, 2000).
        The books investigated what Mr. DeMott saw as three pervasive social myths: the assumption, held by many Americans, that we live in a classless society; the promise, held out by movies and television, that individual friendships between blacks and whites can vanquish racism all by themselves; and the images of women, ubiquitous in popular culture, that render them almost indistinguishable from men.
        Reviewing ''The Imperial Middle'' in The New York Times Book Review, Barbara Ehrenreich wrote: ''Mr. DeMott excels at exposing the insularity that leads the upper middle class to imagine, among other things, that everyone can swim. Among many instances of class bias in the news media, he brings us two famous anchormen, stroking their chins over Jesse Jackson's support in the 1988 Democratic presidential primaries and opining that movements of the lower classes have a tendency to 'go awry.' Or there is the television critic who asks, insultingly, of the working-class heroine on 'Roseanne': how did she get so smart?''
        Benjamin Haile DeMott was born on June 2, 1924, in Rockville Centre, N.Y.; his father was a carpenter, his mother a faith healer. As a young man, lacking the money for college, he worked as a clerk in New York City and later as a freelance journalist in Washington. During World War II, he served in the United States Infantry and afterward attended college on the G.I. Bill.
        Mr. DeMott received a bachelor's degree from George Washington University in 1949. He joined the Amherst faculty in 1951 and earned a Ph.D. in English literature from Harvard two years later.
        He was best known for his writing in the popular media: his essays and criticism appeared frequently in Harper's Magazine, The Atlantic Monthly, The New York Times Book Review and elsewhere. Throughout his work, he was concerned with what he viewed as the increasing dehumanization of contemporary life, brought about by a potent combination of obliviousness, anti-intellectualism and the failure of empathy.
        Critical response to Mr. DeMott's work was divided. Some reviewers applauded a sensibility that could take in Elvis and existentialism, Mailer and McLuhan, Salinger and ''The Simpsons.'' Others saw the pop-culture references as forced efforts to look au courant.
        Mr. DeMott is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Craig, whom he married in 1946; two daughters, Joel, of Montgomery, Ala., and Megan DeMott-Quigley of Cambridge, Mass.; two sons, Tom and Benj, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Georgia, of East Norwich, N.Y., and Louise Orr of Hendersonville, N.C.; and six grandchildren.
        His other books include ''You Don't Say: Studies of Modern American Inhibitions'' (Harcourt, Brace & World, 1966); ''Supergrow: Essays and Reports on Imagination in America'' (E.P. Dutton, 1969); and most recently, ''Junk Politics: The Trashing of the American Mind'' (Nation Books, 2003).
        Mr. DeMott also published two novels, ''The Body's Cage'' (Little, Brown, 1959) and ''A Married Man'' (Harcourt, Brace & World, 1968).
      