
        Dorothy Law Nolte, a writer and family counselor whose ubiquitous inspirational poem, ''Children Learn What They Live,'' was photocopied, circulated, anthologized and affixed to refrigerator doors worldwide for nearly two decades before she claimed rightful authorship of it in the 1970's, died on Nov. 6 at her home in Rancho Santa Margarita, Calif. She was 81.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        In 1954, Mrs. Nolte, who wrote a weekly column on family matters for The Torrance Herald, a local newspaper, found herself on deadline and strapped for material. She composed a 14-line poem on childrearing that would become a mantra for millions of parents.
        The poem quickly took on a life of its own. It was copied repeatedly and passed from hand to hand. It was printed on plaques and posters. It was distributed to millions of new parents by a maker of baby formula.
        Earlier this year, Crown Prince Naruhito of Japan announced that he would raise his daughter, Princess Aiko, by its tenets.
        For years, the poem was widely believed to be anonymous, and Mrs. Nolte received neither credit nor compensation. Unaware that she had loosed a genie on the world, she soon forgot about it.
        In 1972, after discovering how big her poem had become, Mrs. Nolte copyrighted it. In 1998, she expanded it into a book, ''Children Learn What They Live: Parenting to Inspire Values,'' written with Rachel Harris. The book has more than 3 million copies in print worldwide and has been translated into 18 languages, according to its publisher, Workman Publishing.
        Mrs. Nolte and Ms. Harris also collaborated on a sequel, ''Teenagers Learn What They Live: Parenting to Inspire Integrity and Independence,'' published by Workman in 2002.
        Considered timeless wisdom by some and undiluted treacle by others, Mrs. Nolte's poem is organized as a series of logical propositions:
        If children live with criticism, they learn to condemn.
        If children live with hostility, they learn to fight.
        If children live with fear, they learn to be apprehensive.
        If children live with pity, they learn to feel sorry for themselves.
        But do not despair, the poem seems to say. It continues:
        If children live with encouragement, they learn confidence.
        If children live with tolerance, they learn patience.
        If children live with praise, they learn appreciation.
        If children live with acceptance, they learn to love.
        The poem has time-honored antecedents in Western oral tradition. With its steady rhythm and gentle didacticism, it recalls well-loved nursery rhymes or ballads. As with much oral literature that is later written down, it circulated in a number of variant texts over the years, some longer, some shorter, some with altered language.
        Mrs. Nolte herself changed the poem in later years to make it gender-neutral. (The original read, ''If a child lives with criticism, he learns to condemn,'' and so on.)
        Dorothy Louise McDaniel was born in Los Angeles on Jan. 12, 1924. She held various jobs before training as a family counselor in the 1950's. In recent years, she lectured often on childrearing.
        Mrs. Nolte's first marriage, to Durwood Law, ended in divorce. She married Claude Nolte in 1959. With her second husband, Mrs. Nolte wrote a book, ''Wake Up in Bed, Together! A Handbook for Sexual Repatterning'' (Stein & Day, 1975).
        Mr. Nolte died in 1988. Mrs. Nolte is survived by two children from her first marriage, Joyce Jameson of Gold Canyon, Ariz., and Gerald Law of Rancho Santa Margarita; a daughter from her second marriage, Lisa Mulvania, of Huntington Beach, Calif.; a stepson, David Nolte, of Kailua, Hawaii; eight grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
      