
        Alan A. Reich, the founder and president emeritus of the National Organization on Disability, a voice in public forums for those disabled in any way, died on Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 75.
        His death was announced on the Web site of the organization, which he ran until last April. The cause was heart failure resulting from longstanding respiratory problems, said Michael R. Deland, his successor as president.
        The 23-year-old group is an umbrella organization that is active on a local, state and national level. It seeks full and equal participation for disabled people in all aspects of life, and each year it gives its Accessible America Award to communities showing the most progress in that area, most recently citing Pasadena, Calif., and Phoenix.
        Mr. Reich, who used a wheelchair after suffering severe spinal injuries in a diving accident in 1962, was a recipient this year of a George H. W. Bush Award, established to honor outstanding service under the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1992.
        Alan Anderson Reich was born in Pearl River, N. Y., and graduated from Dartmouth in 1952. He received a diploma in Slavic studies from Oxford University in 1953, along with a master's from the Russian Institute of Middlebury College, and an M.B.A. at Harvard in 1959.
        From 1953 to 1957 he served as an officer and Russian-language interrogator with the Army in Germany. He started a business career with the Polaroid Corporation in 1962. In 1970, he joined the State Department as a deputy assistant secretary for educational and cultural affairs.
        He worked in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and directed the Bureau of East-West Trade for the Department of Commerce before he was named president of the United States Council for the International Year of Disabled Persons in 1978. As council president, he was the first wheelchair user to address the United Nations General Assembly when it opened the International Year of Disabled Persons in 1981.
        Resigning from the government, Mr. Reich transformed the council into the National Organization on Disability in 1982. Using his connections from private business and public service, he built the organization into a platform to alert the public to the needs and potentials of people with disabilities and to prod policy makers into action.
        Mr. Reich also helped build a coalition of disability groups that was instrumental in the placing of a statue of President Franklin D. Roosevelt in a wheelchair in the F. D. R. Memorial in Washington.
        In addition to his wife of 50 years, Gay Forsythe Reich, Mr. Reich is survived by two sons, James F., of Marshfield Hills, Mass., and Jeffrey P., of Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.; a daughter, Elizabeth R. Keane of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Peter B., of Pasadena; and 11 grandchildren.
      