
        Lou Myers, a satiric artist and graphic essayist whose expressive style helped modernize cartoons in advertisements and major American magazines, died yesterday at his home in Cortlandt Manor, N.Y. He was 90.
        The cause of death was spindle cell carcinoma, said his daughter-in-law Alyse Myers, vice president for marketing services at The New York Times.
        In a career that spanned about seven decades, Mr. Myers developed a deceptively childlike, raw, black brush stroke that gave the illusion of lightheartedness. But his cartoons were more like comic bombs that exploded political and social taboos. Among Mr. Myers's frequent topics were sex (especially the relational tensions between men and women) and war and peace (especially the nuclear arms buildup of the 70's and 80's). One of his most memorable images shows a circle of bent-over military officers, each of whom is lighting the fuse of a missile poised to fly into the next.
        Louis Myers was born in Paris in 1915 and came to New York with his family in 1917. He saw his father drown in 1926 and was the one who had to tell his mother, and his son Marc attributed the ''fatalistic sense of humor'' of his father's work to that experience.
        After graduating from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, Mr. Myers studied at the Art Students League in New York and worked for 20th Century Fox and Columbia Pictures in New York, illustrating movie posters. After enlisting in the Navy during World War II, he was dispatched to paint combat scenes and officers' portraits throughout Europe.
        After the war, Mr. Myers returned to his job at Columbia, where he met his second wife, Bernice, a children's book illustrator. In 1952, they moved to Paris, where Mr. Myers also illustrated children's books and began drawing captionless cartoons for French magazines and newspapers. While in France, he also illustrated ''Paris After Dark,'' a book by Art Buchwald that established Mr. Myers's graphic style and artistic reputation.
        His cartoon style had developed a sophistication that began to attract the attention of ad agency art directors. As the demand for his work grew among corporate clients, so did his risk-taking. By the late 60's, many of his advertisement images toed a fine line between conformity and subversion; Mr. Myers achieved his client's marketing goal while also taking a playful swipe at corporate life.
        In the mid-60's, Mr. Myers's provocative style was in such demand that clients included his oversize signature in their ads, a practice unheard of at the time and still rare today. Most clients prefer to keep artists' signatures out of ads to avoid distracting consumers from their marketing message.
        In 1966, Mr. Myers published his first short story, ''The Landlord,'' in The Evergreen Review, as well as some poetry in Niobe, a literary journal. Throughout the 60's, he illustrated magazine and newspaper articles in publications that included Monocle, Ramparts, Holiday, Show, Esquire, U & L C and The New York Times. He also created the cartoon logo of two men in the same polka dot dress for the film poster for ''La Cage aux Folles'' (1978).
        Mr. Myers published three cartoon collections: ''Group Therapy'' (Dutton, 1962); ''A Psychiatric Glossary'' (Dutton, 1965); and ''Absent and Accounted For'' (Workman, 1980). He also wrote and illustrated three children's books: ''Tutti-frutti'' (Pantheon, 1967) ; ''Ha Ha Hyenas'' (Coward-McCann, 1971) ; and ''In Plenty of Time'' (Coward-McCann, 1972).
        In 1976, Mr. Myers illustrated the cover of The New Yorker issue for the national bicentennial using famous quotations to create a profile of Uncle Sam. Under the editor William Shawn, The New Yorker published 13 of his stories about growing up poor, serving in the Navy and living in Paris. The stories were later the basis for an autobiographical collection, ''When Life Falls It Falls Upside Down'' (Grove Press, 1990).
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son from his first marriage, George; two sons from his second marriage: Marc and Danny; a sister, Mary Dischell; and a granddaughter. His first marriage ended in divorce.
        Mr. Myers, who worked until earlier this year, was known for wearing a small strip of adhesive tape on his left cheek. When asked the reason, he often said that underneath was the center of the universe.
      