
        Sybil Shearer, an unpredictable individualist of modern dance, died on Thursday in Evanston, Ill. She was 93 and lived in Northbrook, Ill.
        The cause was a stroke, said Toby Nicholson of the Morrison-Shearer Foundation and Museum.
        A dancer of extraordinary agility, Ms. Shearer depicted both spiritual visions and human foibles. As the dance historian Margaret Lloyd wrote in ''The Borzoi Book of Modern Dance,'' ''Sybil Shearer is a perfectionist who likes to believe that perfection is humanly attainable.''
        In her youth, she was sometimes compared to another experimental dancer, Merce Cunningham. When both gave separate programs at the American Dance Festival at Connecticut College in 1959, Doris Hering concluded in Dance Magazine: ''Both are mystics. Both move as though chosen by the wind.''
        Ms. Shearer's first New York solo concert in 1941 attracted considerable attention, but less than two years later she abruptly abandoned what she considered the rat race of New York and settled in the Chicago suburbs. Making only sporadic returns to New York, she continued performing in the Chicago area and inspired dedicated students, among them John Neumeier, now the director of the Hamburg Ballet.
        Ever idiosyncratic, Ms. Shearer rejected stage makeup and let her abundant reddish-brown hair hang loose during performances. She sometimes refused to take curtain calls and occasionally presented long evenings without intermissions.
        Born in Toronto, Ms. Shearer grew up in Nyack, N.Y., and on Long Island. She studied ballet with various local teachers and acquired a virtuoso technique. The summer after she graduated from Skidmore College in 1934, she was drawn by a newfound interest in modern dance to Bennington College, then a center of modern-dance ferment.
        At first, she specialized in solos. Some -- for instance, ''Let the Heavens Open That the Earth May Shine'' (1947) -- celebrated spiritual ideals. Others commented on earthly problems: ''In a Vacuum'' (1941) portrayed an assembly-line worker with physically demanding but unrelated movements that suggested dehumanization. Still other pieces were whimsical. ''Once Upon a Time'' (1951) was a suite of solos for fantastically named characters. Thus Medmiga was an ominous witch, Yanchi was fey, Relluckus was woebegone and Ziff fluttered aimlessly. Ms. Shearer once told the dancer Stuart Hodes that all these creatures ''live in my garden at home.'' Ms. Shearer also choreographed group works, among them ''Fables and Proverbs'' (1961) and ''The Reflection in the Puddle Is Mine'' (1963).
        Many of her productions were close collaborations with Helen Morrison, a photographer, filmmaker and lighting designer who meticulously documented Ms. Shearer's career. The Morrison-Shearer Foundation and Museum maintains the Shearer archives. In recent years, Ms. Shearer became a dance writer; her criticism as Chicago correspondent for Ballet Review combined shrewd appraisals with evocative metaphors. The first volume of her autobiography, is to be published next year.
        No immediate survivors are known.
      