
        Beland H. Honderich, the publisher and editor who transformed The Toronto Star from a publication focused on crime and sensationalism into an influential newspaper with Canada's largest circulation, died on Tuesday in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his son John Honderich said.
        Mr. Honderich became editor in chief of The Star in 1955 and began a 22-year reign as its publisher in 1966, turning it into a newspaper that appealed to Toronto's rapidly growing middle class and suburban populations. Under Mr. Honderich, the newspaper greatly expanded its coverage of the arts and of news that took place outside of Toronto and beyond Canada. He recruited staff members who in many cases went on to become popular writers and editors, like Pierre Berton and Peter C. Newman, who became two of Canada's top-selling nonfiction authors.
        Mr. Honderich frequently lost senior editors, whom he dismissed or who quit out of frustration with what they saw as micromanagement.
        Mr. Honderich's Toronto Star was also frequently attacked by political critics for its overt support of social causes, Canadian economic nationalism and the Liberal Party of Canada.
        ''He would plead guilty to doing that,'' said John Honderich, who was also the newspaper's publisher until 2004. ''He very much believed in a crusading, if fair and accurate, newspaper. He once made a convocation address in which he said there was no such thing as objectivity.''
        As editor, publisher and later chairman of the paper's parent company, Torstar, Mr. Honderich was guided by principles laid down in the will of Joseph Atkinson Sr., The Star's publisher and controlling shareholder until his death in 1948. The will essentially required the paper to devote itself to social reform and limited its ownership to people who shared that goal.
        After the government of Ontario passed legislation thwarting a plan that would have turned ownership over to a charitable foundation promoting Mr. Atkinson's principles, Mr. Honderich borrowed money to join the charity's other directors in buying the paper.
        Ultimately, that decision made Mr. Honderich wealthy, in contrast to his upbringing on a farm in the Mennonite community of Baden, Ontario. Mr. Honderich worked early in his career at various newspapers in southwestern Ontario. After being rejected from military service because of his weak eyesight and hearing, Mr. Honderich was hired by The Star as a reporter in 1943 to replace staff members who were fighting in World War II.
        As chairman, Mr. Honderich expanded Torstar beyond newspapers and acquired Harlequin, the publisher of romance novels. He retired as chairman in 1995 but kept an office near the paper's newsroom until 1999.
        In addition to his son John, of Toronto, Mr. Honderich is survived by another son, David, of Toronto, and a daughter, Mary, of Geneva, all from his marriage to his first wife, Florence, which ended in divorce. His second wife, Agnes, died in 1999. He is also survived by his third wife, Rina; a brother, Ted, of Frome, England; and six grandchildren.
      