
        Gordon A. Craig, a leading interpreter of modern Germany to the English-speaking world, died on Oct. 30 in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 91.
        The cause was heart failure, according to Stanford University, where he taught from 1961 until retiring in 1979.
        Professor Craig reached a wide audience as one of the most distinguished political and cultural observers of Germany in the United States and beyond. He was noted for his sympathetic approach, leavening criticism with deeper understanding of a country that he encountered at its worst, visiting as a young man in the 1930's.
        After retiring from teaching, he continued to write influential books and regular commentary on the European scene in The New York Review of Books.
        He emerged as an authority with the publication in 1955 of his classic text, ''The Politics of the Prussian Army, 1640-1945'' (Clarendon). Telford Taylor, reviewing the volume for The New York Times, described it as ''a powerful study of the role of the German officers' corps in shaping the foreign and domestic policies of the Prussian Kingdom and, after 1871, of the German Reich.''
        Professor Craig covered the roots of Germany's emergence as the fulcrum of 20th-century Europe in books including ''From Bismarck to Adenauer: Aspects of German Statecraft'' (Harper; rev. ed., 1965); ''The Battle of Königgrätz: Prussia's Victory Over Austria, 1866'' (Lippincott, 1964), and ''Military Policy and National Security'' (Praeger, 1966).
        His most important summary of his epic subject came in two comprehensive studies: ''Germany, 1866-1945'' (Oxford University Press, 1978), ending with the country's surrender in ruin, and ''The Germans'' (Putnam, 1982), a broad cultural survey.
        Writing in The Times Book Review, the historian Hugh Trevor-Roper called ''Germany'' a ''work of great erudition, packed with detail, and of a wide range, dealing with all aspects of government and social life.'' It presented the period under review as a distinct and violent chapter of German history that pointed up the ''ramshackle construction'' of Bismarck's Second Reich.
        Also in the Book Review, another noted historian of Germany, Fritz Stern of Columbia, called the ''The Germans'' an ''elegant and enticing work.'' Its separate chapters, he wrote, dwell on ''some of the often neglected fundamental facets of German life and culture'' as the author ''searches for the deeper sources of German conduct.''
        The book reminded the reviewer, Professor Stern wrote, ''that for two centuries or more, Germans have had a difficult time defining their relations to the West,'' a condition that changed only after the ''total defeat and degradation'' of 1945.
        ''It is impossible,'' Professor Stern wrote, ''to convey fully the richness of the book.''
        Born in Glasgow, Gordon Alexander Craig came to the United States in 1927 and graduated in 1936 from Princeton, where he also received his M.A. in 1939 and Ph.D. in history two years later.
        He spent a year at Oxford as a Rhodes scholar in the late 1930's, started his academic year at Princeton as an instructor in 1941 and rose to professor of history in 1950.
        After joining the Stanford faculty, he also held a visiting professorship at the Free University of Berlin in the 1960's. He had been a thorough reader of German literature since his student days to deepen his understanding of the country, considering novelists to be material witnesses to their time and surroundings.
        That notion was reflected in ''Theodor Fontane: Literature and History in the Bismarck Reich'' (Oxford, 1999). He also wrote ''The Politics of the Unpolitical: German Writers and the Problem of Power, 1770-1871'' (Oxford, 1995) and a compilation of magazine articles, ''Politics and Culture in Modern Germany: Essays From the New York Review of Books'' (1999).
        He was a co-editor of an important historical text in two volumes, ''The Diplomats, 1919-1939'' and ''The Diplomats, 1939-1979,'' published by Princeton University Press in 1953 and 1994, and a co-editor of ''Makers of Modern Strategy, From Machiavelli to the Nuclear Age'' (Princeton, 1986).
        In World War II, as an analyst for the Office of Strategic Services, Professor Craig had written a pamphlet for the military, ''Know Your Enemy.'' The tenor of his writings after that was that of an understanding critic devoid of hostility, and he gained wide popularity and an appreciative readership in Germany.
        As a historian he had a clear, informative style and a sharp analytical sense. His dissection of the Prussian Army's political aspects refuted the pretense that the army was a purely apolitical institution. At the same time, he disputed the argument that militarism and a penchant for authoritarian government were bred into the German national character.
        At Stanford he was regarded as a mainstay of its history department, having been recruited with a group of established historians and other scholars to lift the national standing of the university. He was chairman of the department from 1972 to 1975 and again from 1978 to 1979 and strengthened both its undergraduate and graduate teaching.
        Dr. Craig is survived by his wife of 66 years, Phyllis Halcomb Craig; three daughters, Deborah Preston of Los Altos Hills, Calif., Susan Craig of Pasadena, Calif., and Martha Craig of Peoria, Ill; a son, Charles, of South Pasadena, Calif.; a sister, Jean Clarke of Ontario; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      