
        Joseph J. Thorndike, a former managing editor of Life magazine who in 1954 helped found American Heritage magazine, died Tuesday at his home in Harwich, Mass. He was 92.
        The cause was congestive heart failure and complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son John said.
        Mr. Thorndike, the longtime editorial director of American Heritage, started the magazine with two Life colleagues, Oliver Jensen and James Parton. Mr. Jensen died in June, at 91.
        A general-interest publication that recounts the American past in the style of a newsmagazine, American Heritage is published six times a year and has a circulation of 340,000. Its corporate parent, the American Heritage Publishing Company, is a division of Forbes Inc.
        In 1958, the three men founded Horizon magazine, which focused on the arts and world history; Mr. Thorndike was the magazine's editor for many years. Horizon ceased publication in 1989.
        Joseph Jacobs Thorndike was born in Peabody, Mass., on July 29, 1913. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard in 1934 and immediately joined the staff of Time magazine.
        In 1936, when Life magazine made its debut, Mr. Thorndike became an associate editor there. At Life, he edited the work of writers including John Kenneth Galbraith, John Dos Passos, James Thurber and Winston Churchill. He also worked with noted photographers like Robert Capa, Alfred Eisenstadt, Henri Cartier-Bresson and Margaret Bourke-White.
        During World War II, Mr. Thorndike reported for Life from Italy and North Africa. From 1946 to 1949, he was the magazine's managing editor.
        Mr. Thorndike's first marriage, to Virginia Lemont, ended in divorce, as did his second, to Margery Darrell. His companion, Jane Allport, died last year.
        In addition to his son John, of Athens, Ohio, Mr. Thorndike is survived by another son from his first marriage, Alan, of Stowe, Vt.; a son from his second marriage, Joseph, of Charlottesville, Va.; and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Thorndike wrote several books, among them ''The Very Rich: A History of Wealth'' (American Heritage, 1976); and ''The Coast: A Journey Down the Atlantic Shore'' (St. Martin's, 1993).
      