
        Skitch Henderson, the conductor, pianist and radio and television entertainer who provided music and repartee for the ''Tonight'' show in the 1950's and 60's and who founded and led the New York Pops, died on Tuesday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 87.
        His death was announced by James M. Johnson, executive director of the Pops.
        With his neatly trimmed Vandyke beard and friendly disposition, Mr. Henderson was a familiar personality to millions of Americans over a long career. He had shows of his own on radio and television, and made many guest appearances in the 1950's and 1960's on ''To Tell the Truth'' and other game shows.
        He was also a mainstay of the ''Tonight'' show, conducting the studio band and swapping stories with Steve Allen beginning in 1954 and later with Johnny Carson. He devised the ''Stump the Band'' routine, in which members of the studio audience would suggest obscure song titles and challenge the band musicians to play the tunes.
        Mr. Henderson liked to stretch his players when he could, using arrangements by distinguished writers like Neal Hefti and Ernie Wilkins. Among the sidemen in the Henderson band were the trumpeter Clark Terry and Doc Severinsen, who took over as leader in 1967.
        Though he became as much a performer as a conductor-pianist, Mr. Henderson always maintained his musical presence. He once described himself as ''a middlebrow musician who does quality show music,'' and critics over the years seemed to agree with that assessment.
        Under Mr. Henderson's leadership, the New York Pops were born unofficially in the 1950's, with 70 members of the New York Philharmonic. It faded, but Mr. Henderson started it again, formalized its existence in 1983 and conducted it for many years, drawing musicians from the city's freelance pool.
        Mr. Henderson was regarded as one of the best-traveled musicians on the scene. In addition to turns on the podium of the New York Philharmonic, he made appearances as a guest conductor of orchestras in San Diego, Minneapolis, Salt Lake City, Tulsa and Stamford, Conn., and of quality pops orchestras in Virginia, Florida and Kentucky. Abroad, he conducted the Royal Philharmonic and the London Symphony.
        He received a 1963 Grammy Award for an album of selections from ''Porgy and Bess,'' with the RCA Orchestra and Leontyne Price as the main soloist. ''What's great about Skitch,'' Marvin Hamlisch, who performed with him often, once said, ''is that he can move between any type of music. Now he does a lot of pop music, but he knows the repertoire of the classics as well as anyone. He's a consummate musician.''
        But music, and in particular a batch of musical scores, led Mr. Henderson afoul of the I.R.S. in 1974. He was indicted on charges that he had tried to evade federal taxes of more than $40,000 when he donated scores to the University of Wisconsin.
        Mr. Henderson said the scores were worth $350,000 and testified that he had consulted Leonard Bernstein and Henry Mancini about their value. But Mr. Bernstein and Mr. Mancini testified that they had not been consulted. Prosecutors said that all the manuscripts together were worth perhaps a few hundred to a few thousand dollars. The composer Morton Gould and Schuyler Chapin, then the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, testified in support of Mr. Henderson. Though the conductor was acquitted of some of the charges, he was convicted of filing false income-tax returns, sentenced to six months in prison and fined $10,000. He served four months.
        Still, he remained a popular figure on the New York musical scene for years afterward. In July 1997, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani awarded him the Handel Medallion, the city's highest arts honor. The following January, a celebrity-filled gala was held at Carnegie Hall to honor him on his 80th birthday.
        In recent years, Mr. Henderson and his wife, Ruth, ran the Silo, a combination cooking school, art gallery and country store, at Hunt Hill Farm in New Milford.
        Lyle Russell Cedric Henderson was born on Jan. 27, 1918, in Birmingham, England. In interviews over the years he said that he took piano lessons when he was 6 from his mother, a church organist, and that he came to the United States when he was 14. By the time he turned 15, he said, he had decided to try to make his mark in music.
        Mr. Henderson told reporters that when he was very young, ''I ran away and played with a rinky-dink band.'' He was somewhere in the Midwest in the 1930's, playing a hotel, when he encountered Judy Garland. He stepped in when her regular accompanist became ill and later was a rehearsal accompanist for both Garland and Mickey Rooney.
        In 1938 he played piano for ''The Bob Hope Pepsodent Show'' on radio. Two years later, Mr. Henderson enlisted in the Royal Canadian Air Force. When the United States entered the war in 1941, he joined the Army Air Corps and became a fighter pilot.
        After his discharge in 1945, he organized his own dance band and toured the United States. He worked with Bing Crosby on the radio and was also music director of Frank Sinatra's ''Light-Up Time'' radio show.
        The following year he was hired to be a D.J. on WNBC radio in New York. He then started doing nightclub dates in New York and took over as the master of ceremonies of ''Talent Search'' on NBC. Mr. Henderson went on to a staff position at NBC in New York, which, he said, led to conducting engagements with the NBC Symphony on radio when the ensemble's leader, Toscanini, took two summer vacations. He became music director of NBC and then worked on the ''Tonight'' show.
        In 1950, Mr. Henderson married Faye Emerson, an actress and early television performer. They were divorced in 1957.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Einseidel Michaels, whom he married in 1958; a son, Hans Henderson; a daughter, Heidi Maria Henderson; and four grandchildren.
        He was often asked where he got the name Skitch. He said it was given to him by Bing Crosby, who told him the public would never remember proper names like Harry Lillis Crosby but couldn't forget him once he became Bing. Crosby began to call him the Sketch Kid, because as a rehearsal pianist he made piano sketches for the orchestrator. From that came Skitch.
        In 1998, he summarized his career for The Salt Lake Tribune. ''I've never had goals,'' he said. ''I have worked and been lucky enough. If one trolley broke down, I was able to get on another that was running. Goals are dreams but they are seldom realistic.''
      