
        Maurice Rosenfield, a civil liberties lawyer turned theatrical producer who helped bring several well-received shows to Broadway, including the Tony Award-winning musical ''Barnum,'' died on Oct. 30 in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 91 and lived in Glencoe, Ill.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        In 1980, Mr. Rosenfield and his wife, Lois, were members of the small team of producers behind ''Barnum,'' which starred Jim Dale and Glenn Close. Mr. Dale received a Tony Award for his portrayal of the circus impresario P. T. Barnum; the show also won Tonys for costume and scenic design. It ran for 854 performances.
        The Rosenfields got their start in show business in the early 1970's, after they fell in love with Mark Harris's baseball novel of 1956, ''Bang the Drum Slowly,'' and set out to produce it as an independent film. They had a budget of less than $1 million and only 75 extras, who had to move around a lot to impersonate a stadium crowd.
        In the lead roles, the Rosenfields cast two little-known actors, Michael Moriarty and Robert De Niro; Mr. Rosenfield had a small role as a team owner. ''Bang the Drum Slowly'' was released by Paramount Pictures in 1973.
        Mr. Rosenfield was for many years the principal outside attorney for Playboy, helping shepherd the magazine through a series of legal hurdles in its early days. In 1964, he and two colleagues represented Lenny Bruce before the Illinois Supreme Court, winning an acquittal for the comedian on an earlier obscenity conviction.
        Maurice Rosenfield was born in Chicago on July 8, 1914. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago in 1936 and a law degree from the university two years later. He served in the Army during World War II and in 1948 married Lois Fried.
        Among the Rosenfields' other Broadway productions were a 1983 revival of ''The Glass Menagerie,'' starring Jessica Tandy and Amanda Plummer; and a stage version of ''Singin' in the Rain,'' directed and choreographed by Twyla Tharp, in 1985.
        Mrs. Rosenfield died in 2003. Mr. Rosenfield is survived by two sons, Andrew, of Lake Forest, and James of Santa Fe, N.M.; and four grandchildren.
      