
        Waldemar Nielsen, an influential and widely recognized expert on the workings of charitable foundations who wrote exhaustive, critical analyses of America's foremost philanthropies, their goals and their methods, died on Wednesday in New York, where he lived. He was 88.
        The death was announced by his family.
        His seminal work, ''The Big Foundations'' (Columbia University Press, 1972) parted the curtain on the secretive world of private fortunes and public largess. An encyclopedic work, it profiled, one by one, philanthropies with assets of $100 million or more -- the ''Big 33'' of that era -- topped by the Ford Foundation, which had $3.6 billion at the time the book was being compiled. The book, which included sketches of the founding philanthropists -- Carnegie, Kellogg, Ford, Rockefeller, Mellon, DuPont and others -- reflected as well on the American character and American business.
        Mr. Nielsen examined, and often found wanting, the foundations' performance and the ways in which they responded to challenges to their tax-exempt status and demands for openness and diversification. He deemed them generally timid, inert and unimaginative but saw them, potentially, as a force for public good.
        Reviewing the book for The New York Times, Thomas Lask wrote that Mr. Nielsen ''has exposed for scrutiny the history, workings and rationale of institutions we have heard a lot of and know little about.'' The review went on to say that there was ''very little'' in Mr. Nielsen's presentation to warrant optimism about secretive, unaccountable institutions born as ''playthings of the very rich'' and past their social utility.
        Mr. Nielsen updated the scene to the mid-1980's with ''The Golden Donors'' (E. P. Dutton, 1985), which expanded his history of philanthropy and introduced a new crop of foundations. He rated the new ones mediocre for the most part, with some exceptions, like those of Robert Wood Johnson, Mary Lasker and Brooke Astor.
        Foundations, started with money the superrich would otherwise pay in taxes, the argument went, carried out tasks that were beyond the means or scope of government. Andrew Hacker, reviewing ''The Golden Donors'' in The Times, wrote that Mr. Nielsen found that ''few foundations are delivering on that promise.''
        Mr. Hacker continued: ''This should be a matter of public concern. After all, one reason taxpayers must pay more every April is that wealth made over to foundations not only avoids inheritance levies but becomes tax-exempt in its new incarnation.''
        In ''The Golden Donors'' Mr. Nielsen wrote that ''in the great jungle of American democracy and capitalism there is no more strange or improbable creature than the private foundation. Private foundations are virtually a denial of basic premise: aristocratic institutions living on the privileges and indulgence of an egalitarian society; aggregations of private wealth, which, contrary to the proclaimed instincts of Economic Man, have been conveyed to public purposes. Like the giraffe, they could not possibly exist, but they do.''
        People familiar with the business of philanthropy agree that foundations bristled at Mr. Nielsen's candor, which thrust them uncomfortably into the spotlight, but that his stinging criticism ultimately brought changes.
        Brian O'Connell, the founder of Independent Sector, an umbrella organization for large foundations and public charities, said, ''He was often shunned because of his sharp observations and tongue, which pointed up the shortcomings'' of foundation officials.
        In ''The Golden Donors,'' Mr. O'Connell said, ''Wally took some of the biggest foundations to task for their cautiousness, their reluctance to take gambles.''
        Sarah L. Englehardt, president of the Foundation Center, which helps grant seekers, said that Mr. Nielsen ''can be credited with the emerging self-consciousness of foundations'' and that ''the new generation of leaders of foundations have been very much influenced by his work.''
        Early in his career, Mr. Nielsen worked in government, disseminating information about the Marshall Plan to the American taxpayer and to its beneficiaries in Europe. He directed domestic and overseas programs at the Ford Foundation, becoming an expert on Africa, and, as the president of the African-American Institute in the 1960's, fostered cultural and educational exchanges with a continent still struggling to emerge from colonialism.
        His first three books dealt with issues facing Africa. The third volume, ''The Great Powers in Africa'' (Praeger, 1969), published for the Council on Foreign Relations, gained the author wide recognition.
        Backed by statistical tables, ''The Great Powers and Africa'' examined Africa at the end of the colonial era, when countries became a battleground for superpower politics. One chapter assessed the ''white redoubt'' in southern Africa as a ''smoldering catastrophe.'' Reviewing American policy, Mr. Nielsen discounted direct military intervention as a solution but suggested aid to liberation movements in nearby states and the kind of economic strictures, in fact, that eventually helped end South Africa's apartheid regime.
        Waldemar August Nielsen was born on March 27, 1917, in Greensburg, Pa., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in economics and business administration from the University of Missouri in 1939. He was chosen as a Rhodes scholar, but the outbreak of war in Europe kept him from going to Oxford. He got an M.A. in political science at the University of Missouri in 1940 and quit a doctoral program to take an economist's job with the Department of Agriculture.
        Once the United States entered the war, he saw action as a radar officer in the Pacific, receiving a bronze star. He was a special assistant to the secretary of commerce in Washington after the war and lived in Paris as deputy and later director of the State Department's European information program at Marshall Plan headquarters.
        He joined the Ford Foundation in 1952 as deputy director of its behavioral sciences division, rose to executive assistant to the president and associate director international affairs, dealing with the foundation's programs overseas. He was elected president of the African-American Institute in New York, a foundation beneficiary, and oversaw programs that, among other things, broke educational bottlenecks by helping young Africans to an otherwise unaffordable secondary education in their own countries.
        After leaving the African-American Institute in 1970, he started his own firm, Waldemar A. Nielsen Inc., a consultancy on corporate social policy, which he ran in New York until four years ago. Over the years, he was affiliated with the Aspen Institute and the Council on Foreign Relations. In 2000 a Nielsen chair in philanthropy was endowed in his honor at Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute.
        Mr. Nielsen is survived by his wife of 62 years, Marcia Kaplan Nielsen; a daughter, Signe Nielsen of Manhattan; a sister, Rita Nielsen of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  November 5, 2005, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Waldemar Nielsen, an expert on the workings of charitable foundations, misspelled the name of the director of the Foundation Center, which helps those seeking grants. She is Sara L. Engelhardt. Not Sarah L. Englehardt.
      