
        E. Stewart Williams, an architect whose many works in Palm Springs, Calif., including a home for Frank Sinatra, helped define what became known as the Desert Modern style, died on Sept. 10. He was 95.
        He died at his home in Palm Springs, said Michael J. Stern, an artist who is writing a book on Mr. Williams's architecture.
        Mr. Williams's career as a Palm Springs architect got off to a lucky start one day in May of 1947 when a skinny man in a sailor's cap walked into his office licking an ice cream cone. The man was Frank Sinatra, and he wanted a new house -- by Christmas.
        He also indicated that he admired Georgian architecture, a style that Mr. Williams thought quite out of place in the desert environment of Palm Springs.
        The house that Mr. Williams designed and had built in time for Mr. Sinatra's Christmas party was anything but traditional. Influenced by the Scandinavian architects Gunnar Asplund and Alvar Alto, Mr. Williams created a sleek, warm home of glass, wood and stone that harmonized with the desert landscape and offered panoramic views of the surrounding mountains. Featuring a piano-shaped swimming pool, it also hit a note of glamorous sophistication.
        The Sinatra house included many of the elements later associated with the Desert Modern style: the use of natural materials, a sophisticated contrast of textures and an elegant flow between inside and outside.
        ''Stew was concerned with integrating his homes into the building site,'' Mr. Stern said. ''He was an artist, a skilled watercolorist, and was able to work various textures against one another -- wood, stone, concrete -- to create a harmonious whole.''
        Emerson Stewart Williams was born in 1909 in Dayton, Ohio, the son of Harry Williams, a prominent local architect who designed the headquarters for National Cash Register. The elder Mr. Williams moved the family to Palm Springs after working on a project there combining residences, offices, a theater and retail stores. The complex, La Plaza, was one of the first multiuse projects in California; it opened in 1936 and remains the centerpiece of downtown Palm Springs.
        Stewart Williams, who graduated from Cornell and received a master's in architecture from the University of Pennsylvania, began his professional career in New York in the office of Raymond Loewy, where he worked on projects for the 1939 New York World's Fair and the Lord & Taylor store in Manhasset, on Long Island.
        After serving in the United States Navy, he returned to Palm Springs to set up his own shop.
        Mr. Williams designed many public buildings in Palm Springs, including Temple Isaiah, which won an award from the American Institute of Architecture in 1949. In the 1950's and 60's, he completed several commissions for local banks and designed the mountain station for the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway.
        His largest project was the campus for Crafton Hills College in Yucaipa, Calif., where he transformed a hilly site into a flowing series of terraces. His most prominent, and his favorite, was the Palm Springs Desert Museum, which opened in 1976. In 1993, he came out of retirement to design a new wing for the museum.
        He also continued doing residential work throughout his career, including the Edris House, which was designated a historic building by the Palm Springs City Council in 2004, and a vacation house in nearby Rancho Mirage for Ralph Kiner, the Hall of Fame baseball player and longtime New York Mets announcer.
        He is survived by a daughter, Mari Anne Pasqualetti of Tempe, Ariz.; two sons, Erik, of Palm Springs, and Geoffrey, of San Francisco; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His wife of 60 years, Mari, died in 1998.
        Mr. Williams was an extremely meticulous architect who had his hand in almost every aspect of his projects. ''He designed built-ins, light fixtures, mailboxes, even light switches,'' Mr. Stern said. ''If he could have designed the molecules of his materials, he would have.''
      