
        William O. Baker, a prominent scientist and a former head of Bell Laboratories who advised five presidents on scientific affairs, died on Monday in Chatham, N.J. He was 90 and had lived in Morristown, N.J., for many years.
        The cause was heart failure, his son, Joseph, said.
        Trained as a physical chemist, Mr. Baker was president of Bell Labs from 1973 to 1979; he retired in 1980 as chairman of the board. Based in Murray Hill, N.J., Bell Labs is now the research and development arm of Lucent Technologies.
        During Mr. Baker's tenure as president, Bell Labs scientists twice won the Nobel Prize in Physics. In 1977 Phillip W. Anderson shared the prize with two other scientists for research into the electronic structure of glass and magnetic materials. The next year Arno A. Penzias and Robert W. Wilson shared the prize with a third scientist for discovering background radiation in space believed to have been left over from the Big Bang.
        William Oliver Baker was born on July 15, 1915, in Chestertown, Md., and grew up on his family's 400-acre farm on the Eastern Shore of Chesapeake Bay. His mother raised turkeys -- her Baker's Bronze Beauties were a famous local brand -- and her adroit use of chemicals to combat parasites may have set her son on his professional course.
        Mr. Baker earned a bachelor's degree in physical chemistry from Washington College in Chestertown in 1935 and a Ph.D. from Princeton in 1938. The next year he joined Bell Labs, then Bell Telephone Laboratories, as a research scientist. In World War II, his work there contributed to the development of synthetic rubber.
        In 1948 Mr. Baker was named the head of polymer research and development at the laboratory. He was later assistant director of chemical and metallurgical research and director of physical sciences research there. He was the lab's vice president of research from 1955 to 1973.
        As an adviser to Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon and Reagan, Mr. Baker was consulted on a variety of scientific issues, including the technology of information gathering. He was for many years a member of the President's Science Advisory Committee, the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board and the Federal Emergency Management Advisory Board.
        He received 11 patents for his own research, which focused on the crystalline molecular structure of various materials, including plastics and natural rubber. He also received the National Medal of Science in 1988.
        Mr. Baker's wife, the former Frances Burrill, whom he married in 1941, died in 1999. His son, Joseph, of Morristown, is his only immediate survivor.
      