
        Endre Marton, a prize-winning journalist who sent the first account of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 just weeks after serving a year in prison for covering the events preceding it, died yesterday at the home of a daughter in Manhattan. He was 95.
        His daughter Kati Marton confirmed the death.
        As a correspondent first for The Daily Telegraph of London and later for The Associated Press, Mr. Marton reported on the Communist takeover of Hungary from the late 1940's through the autumn of 1956, when the anti-Communist uprising was suppressed by Soviet forces. He worked beside his wife, Ilona, a reporter for United Press, who was also imprisoned for her work.
        In 1957 the Martons, who had fled from Hungary, shared a George Polk Award. The award is given yearly for reporting in the public interest, often carried out at considerable personal risk. Mrs. Marton died last year..
        After settling in the United States, Mr. Marton was for many years the senior diplomatic correspondent for The Associated Press. In the 1960's he was president of the State Department Correspondents' Association.
        Endre Marton was born in Budapest on Oct. 29, 1910. He earned an undergraduate degree from Budapest University in 1932 and a doctorate in economics from the university in 1936. An accomplished fencer, he was a member of the 1936 Hungarian Olympic team. He married Ilona Nyilas in 1943.
        In early 1955, Mr. Marton was arrested on what were widely considered false charges of spying for the United States; Mrs. Marton was arrested that June. Tried and convicted in secret by a Hungarian military court, he was sentenced to six years in prison, she to three.
        Mrs. Marton was released in April 1956, Mr. Marton in August. But their vigorous coverage of the uprising, which began that fall, put them in danger of being arrested again. They and their children were given asylum in the American Embassy, from which Mr. Marton slipped out each day to report on the fighting. The family was smuggled out of the country at the beginning of 1957.
        Besides his daughter Kati, a journalist, Mr. Marton is survived by another daughter, Julia Marton-Lefevre of San José, Costa Rica; a son, Andrew, of Fort Worth; and four grandchildren.
        In 1971 he published ''The Forbidden Sky'' (Little, Brown), an account of the uprising.
      