
        James J. Fyfe, an author and nationally recognized expert on the use of force by the police, and the top training official in the New York Police Department since 2002, died on Saturday in Princeton, N.J. He was 63.
        He died at University Medical Center in Princeton after being treated for cancer for more than a year, said his wife, Candace S. McCoy.
        Dr. Fyfe joined the Police Department as a patrolman in 1963. He retired as a lieutenant in 1979 after having earned his Ph.D. in criminal justice. He then spent more than two decades in academic posts, researching police practices and policies, particularly the use of deadly force, and serving as an expert witness in several important trials before he was chosen by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly to direct the way the department trained its officers.
        His wife, a professor of criminal justice in the City University system, said one of the first things he did was to revamp the Police Academy curriculum, a task he had begun more than two decades earlier as a lieutenant on assignment there. ''He looked at the existing curriculum and said: 'Oh, I know this. I wrote this 25 years ago,' '' she said.
        Dr. Fyfe was unique in going from the practical, as a police officer, to the theoretical and back again, said Jerome H. Skolnick, a New York University law professor who is an expert on police practices and a co-author with Dr. Fyfe of ''Above the Law: Police and the Excessive Use of Force'' (Free Press, 1993).
        Early in his career, Dr. Fyfe challenged the so-called fleeing felon rule, which permitted police to shoot people who were fleeing crime scenes. ''He proved that it was wrong, both morally and practically,'' said Professor McCoy, his wife. ''It served no law enforcement purpose; that was revolutionary, and the Supreme Court of the United States agreed with him.''
        Next, he turned to researching how police officers use their guns when off duty. And he developed recommendations on how on-duty plainclothes officers should identify themselves when responding to reports of crimes in progress.
        It was Dr. Fyfe's research ''that convinced police departments nationwide to arrest people at scenes of alleged domestic violence incidents, rather than mediating the situation,'' Professor McCoy said.
        Born in Brooklyn on Feb. 16, 1942, Dr. Fyfe graduated from Fort Hamilton High School. He received a bachelor's degree and an honorary doctorate of laws from John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a master's degree and Ph.D. in criminal justice from the State University of New York at Albany. Among his honors was the American Society of Criminology's 2002 August Vollmer Award, given to a scholar whose work has influenced criminal justice practice. At his death, Dr. Fyfe was on leave as a distinguished professor from John Jay College.
        ''His research on the use of force changed the direction of police practice and legal doctrine,'' said Jeremy Travis, president of the college.
        In 2000, Dr. Fyfe testified as a defense witness at the trial of four police officers accused of shooting Amadou Diallo, an unarmed civilian, who they mistakenly believed had a gun. Dr. Fyfe asserted that the officers had followed proper procedures when they tried to stop and question Mr. Diallo because they said he had been acting suspiciously.
        Three weeks before his death, Dr. Fyfe videotaped testimony for a federal civil rights trial in Rhode Island in a case brought by the mother of an off-duty sergeant who was killed by colleagues when he intervened to break up a fight.
        Dr. Fyfe's marriage to Carol Roinos Fyfe ended in divorce. In addition to Professor McCoy, his wife of 18 years, he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Laura Fyfe of Reston, Va., and Jill Fyfe of Haddon, N.J.; a daughter from his second marriage, Gwen Fyfe of Princeton; two sisters, Jeanne Raffaelli of Hawthorne, N.Y., and Dorothy Fyfe of Brooklyn; his mother, Alice Fyfe of Brooklyn; and three grandchildren.
      