
        John Campo, a New York-based trainer for three decades who saddled Pleasant Colony, the winner of the 1981 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, died on Nov. 13 at his home in Hewlett, N.Y. He was 67.
        His death was announced by his son Paul, who said he had been treated for diabetes and strokes.
        Campo was a brash presence on the New York racing scene, a high school dropout known as the Fat Man (he was 5 feet 7 inches and 250 pounds or so) who roamed his barns in T-shirt and baseball cap, puffing on cigars.
        ''He's by Damon Runyon out of a Don Rickles mare,'' the actor Jack Klugman once said.
        A son of Italian immigrants, Campo grew up in Ozone Park, Queens, near the old Aqueduct racetrack. A fan of Roy Rogers, he saved money to buy a palomino that resembled Trigger and pranced with it at a local riding academy.
        Beginning as a stable hand, Campo worked for the trainer Eddie Neloy for nine years. At one point, Neloy felt that Campo needed to complement his talents with horses by polishing his approach to people. So he persuaded Campo to take a Dale Carnegie course.
        Campo began training on his own in 1968, and three years later his colt Jim French finished second in the Kentucky Derby and the Belmont Stakes. He trained both 1973 juvenile champions: Protagonist, the top 2-year-old male, and Talking Picture, the leading 2-year-old filly.
        In March 1981, Thomas Mellon Evans, owner of Buckland Farm of Virginia, became unhappy with the progress that his trainer Odie Lee had made with a promising colt named Pleasant Colony. So Evans turned the colt over to Campo, who had also been training for him.
        Under Campo's tutelage, Pleasant Colony won the Wood Memorial in New York, then came from far back to win the Kentucky Derby, followed by a victory in the Preakness. But Campo's bid for a Triple Crown sweep ended when Pleasant Colony finished third in the Belmont Stakes, which was won by Summing.
        Campo's reputation for speaking his mind was underlined when he was interviewed by Jim McKay of ABC after Pleasant Colony's Derby victory.
        ''He won because I'm a good horse trainer, pal,'' Campo said, ''and don't ever forget it.''
        Pleasant Colony also won the Woodward Stakes, but was retired soon afterward because of a leg injury. He was voted the outstanding 3-year-old male of 1981 and became a leading sire.
        In January 1986, a fire at Belmont Park killed 36 of 38 horses that Campo had stabled there. He continued training, but in March 1988 he told The Orange County Register, ''There's not a day goes by that I don't think about getting that phone call at 1:30 in the morning.'' He retired as a trainer in 1996.
        In addition to Paul Campo, known as P. J., the racing secretary of the New York Racing Association, he is survived by his wife, Peggy; his son John Jr., a New York thoroughbred trainer; a brother, Sal; a sister, Frances; and one grandchild.
        ''Some people may have taken him for being arrogant or whatever, but there were an awful lot of people who enjoyed his style,'' the trainer Nick Zito said in a statement. ''He came from humble beginnings and he came on the scene at a time when he showed the world that the little guy, the guy who had to work from the ground up, could be a success in this business.''
        When Pleasant Colony won the Derby, Campo told Red Smith of The New York Times: ''I ain't no genius, but I ain't no dummy. Everybody thinks I'm a clown.''
        Asked if he had ever dreamed of a Derby victory, he replied: ''I don't dream. I win.''
      