
        Catherine M. Pessino, a naturalist and educator who spent more than three decades introducing young people to wildlife in the most inhospitable of places -- the sidewalks, sewers and catchment basins of New York City -- died on Nov. 5 in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 80.
        Her death was announced by the Great Gull Island Committee, a conservation group of which Ms. Pessino was a past chairwoman. She was also on the staff of the American Museum of Natural History for many years.
        In 1954, Ms. Pessino helped found the museum's first natural science center for children, directing it through several incarnations. The center still offers classes for children and families.
        She was also known for her intensive studies of terns on Great Gull Island, a bird sanctuary off the eastern tip of Long Island. Her work there helped bring thousands of the birds back to the island to nest.
        Catherine Mary Pessino was born in the Bronx in 1925. She received a bachelor's degree in biology from Hunter College in 1946, and shortly afterward was hired to work at the museum's information desk. The next year, she joined the education department.
        When Ms. Pessino first came to the museum, its dusty, glassed-in exhibits were geared primarily to adult visitors. What was more, she realized, most city children considered the natural world irrelevant. In 1954, Ms. Pessino and several colleagues established the Peter Van Gerbig Natural Science Center at the museum. It was intended to be a place where children could not only study nature but also handle it, often for the first time.
        There were other nature centers for children around the country, but perhaps none focused so intimately on urban life forms. In 1960, Ms. Pessino became the head of the center, renamed the Alexander M. White Natural Science Center. In 1973, she oversaw the creation of new exhibits that showcased the flora, fauna and geology of New York.
        There were pussy willows, and a piece of city sidewalk with a tree growing through it. There was an ant farm, and an escaped tropical lizard that had been apprehended in Central Park. There were starlings and squirrels, frogs and fossils and dandelions.
        Of course, there was a cockroach display. It was one of the easiest for Ms. Pessino to pull together.
        In addition to running the natural science center, Ms. Pessino supervised the Louis Calder Natural Science Laboratory at the museum, where students could conduct research. She also advised the New York City Board of Education on the science curriculum.
        During these years, Ms. Pessino was also closely involved with the Great Gull Island Committee. A joint project of the museum and the Linnaean Society of New York, the committee oversees research on the island's tern population. In the course of her work, Ms. Pessino spent many weeks living on the island, a desolate outcropping in Long Island Sound seven miles off Orient Point.
        Until the mid-19th century, Great Gull Island was home to vast colonies of nesting terns. By the end of the century, hundreds of thousands had been slaughtered for the millinery trade. In 1897, the federal government began building Fort Michie on the island, which was soon overrun with buildings and ordnance. This devastated the remaining tern population.
        Designed to protect the entrance to the sound, the fort remained active through the end of World War II. The museum acquired the island in 1949.
        In 1950, Ms. Pessino and a colleague, Lois J. Hussey, were put ashore there, amid the ruins of the derelict fort. There was no telephone, fresh water, plumbing or electricity. The Coast Guardsmen who ferried them across spoke gleefully of shipwrecked sailors, and of ''mosquitoes so large that one holds you by the arms while another sucks blood,'' the women wrote in the April 1951 issue of Natural History magazine.
        They stayed for a month, setting up camp in an abandoned observation tower alongside companionable spiders and mice. They found no terns nesting on the island, though a number visited each day to feed.
        ''To see flocks of 20, 50 or 200 terns feeding is an unforgettable sight,'' the women wrote. ''The contrast of black caps and gleaming white feathers, flashes of brightly colored bills and feet, the seemingly effortless and marvelously graceful flight produce a never-to-be-forgotten picture. They fly over the water with heads bent, pause, hover for an instant, then plunge headfirst into the water.''
        On subsequent visits, Ms. Pessino and her co-workers made a habitat for the terns by clearing undergrowth, tearing down Quonset huts and covering exposed concrete with sand and beach grass. Little by little, the birds returned to the island.
        Today, about 1,600 pairs of roseate terns and about 9,500 pairs of common terns nest there, according to Helen Hays, the current chairwoman of the Great Gull Island Committee.
        With Ms. Hussey, Ms. Pessino wrote three books for young people, all published by Thomas Y. Crowell: ''Collecting Cocoons'' (1953); ''Collecting Small Fossils'' (1970); and ''Collecting for the City Naturalist'' (1975).
        Ms. Pessino, who retired from the museum in 1985, leaves no immediate survivors.
      