
        Maurice Sanford Paprin, a retired New York builder and property owner with another life as a liberal social activist, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was an injury sustained in a fall, said a family spokesman, Harry Zlokower.
        Mr. Paprin, who entered the real estate field in the mid-1950's, was the president of the Douglass Urban Corporation and a principal in other companies, including the Paprin Realty Organization, which built thousands of apartments in Harlem. Among Douglass Urban's major developments was Schomburg Plaza, at Fifth Avenue and 110th Street, a public-private housing project for low- and moderate-income families, dedicated in 1974.
        For 14 years in the 1970's and 1980's, Mr. Paprin was president of the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York, pressing its agenda of public subsidies and tax policies to benefit the development of rental housing.
        Mr. Paprin also wrote a regular column for the trade publication Real Estate Weekly.
        He was a partner in a group that in 1985 bought the flagship building of the B. Altman department store chain, at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street, as well as other units in the chain, and later resold them to developers. The Fifth Avenue building is now the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
        Mr. Paprin, a native of the Bronx, graduated from City College in 1939, received a master's degree in history from the University of Wisconsin and briefly taught history at New York University before turning to real estate and political issues.
        He was a founder and leader of a number of advocacy groups, including the Foundation for Social Change, the Fund for New Priorities in America and, most recently, the Business Labor and Community Coalition of New York. Through those groups he helped sponsor publications and organize meetings and debates about issues like welfare policies, housing for the poor and the war in Iraq.
        Mr. Paprin's first wife, Rita Most Paprin, died in 1980.
        He is survived by his second wife, Jacqueline Stuchin Paprin, whom he married in 1982; three sons, Seth of Manhattan, Yale I. of Chappaqua, N. Y., and Frederick R. of Briarcliff, N. Y.; a daughter, Dr. Judith E. Paprin of Brookline, Mass.; a sister, Eugenia P. Gunier of Cambridge, Mass.; two stepsons, Dr. Steven A. Stuchin and Miles M. Stuchin, both of Manhattan; and 12 grandchildren.
      