
        Fernando Bujones, whose pure classical technique, sheer power and bold temperament made him one of the first American-born male dancers to become an international ballet superstar, died early Thursday in Miami.
        He was 50 and had two homes in Florida: in Orlando, where he was artistic director of the Orlando Ballet for the past five years, and in Hallandale, near Miami.
        The cause was melanoma, said his cousin Zeida Cecilia-Mendez. The Orlando Ballet announced in September that Mr. Bujones would take a three-month leave to be treated for lung cancer. But Ms. Cecilia-Mendez said the final diagnosis was metastatic melanoma.
        Mr. Bujones was one of American Ballet Theater's most versatile stars from 1972 to 1985 and again in the 1990's. He dazzled audiences with his whiplash turns as the bravura skater in Frederick Ashton's ''Patineurs,'' his precision and perfect Romantic style in August Bournonville's 19th-century ''Sylphide'' and his interpretation of more than one troubled hero in Antony Tudor's dance-dramas.
        With his curly hair, slim build and hyperextended legs that inevitably tapered to sleekly pointed feet, Mr. Bujones projected a deceptively wiry silhouette that was immediately transformed by his explosive technique and attention to stylistic detail.
        As a young dancer he had two idols: he wished, he said, to combine the purity of Erik Bruhn with the power of Rudolf Nureyev.
        In the end, he was himself, a virtuoso of the highest caliber (Solor in ''La Bayadère'') who was occasionally idiosyncratic but always meticulous about his work in the 19th-century classics, which he danced in companies both here and abroad. He also staged these works for large and small ballet companies that he directed, including Ballet Mississippi and the Orlando Ballet, as well as troupes in Brazil, Spain and Mexico.
        Mr. Bujones joined Ballet Theater in 1972, and two years later he became the first American to win the gold medal at the International Ballet Competition in Varna, Bulgaria, a prestigious event until then dominated by Soviet dancers. But Mr. Bujones felt that his triumph was overshadowed by the defection of Mikhail Baryshnikov at that time.
        ''Baryshnikov has the publicity and I have the talent,'' Mr. Bujones said in youthful exasperation. Reflecting on those remarks in 1980, he said that he had felt his achievements had been overlooked, but that he had since matured ''like a good wine.''
        Born in Miami on March 9, 1955, Mr. Bujones was sometimes considered a Cuban-trained dancer because he began studying ballet in Havana, to which his Cuban mother, Maria Calleiro, took him twice before she and her son settled again in Miami in 1964.
        Mr. Bujones had begun studying ballet at 6 in Havana, both at a local school and at Alicia Alonso's school. But his training from age 9 was in the United States. After one year of study in Miami, he and his mother attended a performance by the touring group Ballet Spectacular, led by the New York City Ballet stars Melissa Hayden and Jacques d'Amboise. As Ms. Cecilia-Mendez, his cousin, said on Thursday, Ms. Calleiro just happened to have her 10-year-old son waiting in the wings in tights. Mr. d'Amboise had him do ballet exercises and recommended him for the full scholarship he received at the School of American Ballet, affiliated with City Ballet, in New York.
        ''They were a big help,'' Ms. Cecilia-Mendez said. ''They paid for his training, academic schooling, private piano lessons, and helped with the rent.''
        At the school, supervised by George Balanchine, Mr. Bujones considered his prime teachers to be André Eglevsky and Stanley Williams, and he came to public notice as a prodigy in the school's annual performances. Mr. Eglevsky also cast him at 15 with the 16-year-old Gelsey Kirkland in the ''Don Quixote'' pas de deux in his Eglevsky Ballet, a performance that caused a sensation.
        Balanchine invited him to join City Ballet, but Mr. Bujones surprised many by joining Ballet Theater, where he hoped to find a more eclectic repertory. He rose through the ranks with unsurprising speed; after joining Ballet Theater's corps in 1972, he became a soloist in 1973 and a principal in 1974.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1975, Clive Barnes singled out the 20-year-old dancer's special impact in a review of his performance in the Kingdom of the Shades scene in ''La Bayadère'': ''His solo dancing had a brio and freedom that had the audience on the edge of its seats. Mr. Bujones was not merely exhibiting tricks -- although he does have plenty of them in his technical armory -- but dancing with heroic grace.''
        When Mr. Baryshnikov directed Ballet Theater in the 1980's, Mr. Bujones felt increasingly unhappy about the lack of new roles. When he declined to dance in a New York season, he was dismissed in 1985. He was invited back to the company when Jane Hermann and Oliver Smith became the company's directors for the 1989-90 season. In 1995, Mr. Bujones gave his farewell performance with Ballet Theater at the Metropolitan Opera House.
        In the meantime, he continued to teach, stage and perform as a guest with many companies. He was a permanent guest artist with the Boston Ballet in 1990, when he partnered Nina Ananiashvili in the company's acclaimed production of ''Swan Lake,'' which matched Russian and American dancers. He left Boston in 1993 to become director of Ballet Mississippi in Jackson before the company suspended operations for lack of money.
        While appearing as a guest with the Stuttgart Ballet in Germany, he met his wife, Maria, a Peruvian-born dancer in the company, who has the title assistant to the director at the Orlando Ballet. He was divorced from Maria Kubitschek, whose father had been president of Brazil, and whom he married in 1980.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Bujones is survived by his daughter with Ms. Kubitschek, Alejandra, of New York City; his mother; his father, Fernando Bujones Sr.; a half-brother, Manny Bujones; and two half-sisters, Susi and Annette Bujones.
        Correction:  November 17, 2005, Thursday  An obituary on Friday about the ballet star Fernando Bujones misstated the precedent for an American's winning the gold medal at the International Ballet Competition in Varna, Bulgaria. Eva Evdokimova, an American citizen born in Geneva, was the first, in 1970. Mr. Bujones, in 1974, became the first American male dancer to win the gold medal, not the first American.
      