
        Paul Roazen, a political scientist and chronicler of the development of psychoanalysis who explored Sigmund Freud's complex relationships with his family, students and adherents, died Nov. 3 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 69.
        The cause was complications of Crohn's disease, his family said.
        In the 1975 book ''Freud and His Followers'' (Knopf), Dr. Roazen pointed out inconsistencies in Freud's analytical practices and drew the ire of orthodox Freudians.
        Dr. Roazen, who was not a psychiatrist, interviewed about 70 patients and pupils of Freud to sketch a portrait that showed biases, indiscretions and quirks in treating patients that seemed inconsistent with Freud's espoused methods. The book was read as a counterpoint to Ernest Jones's largely admiring three-volume biography of Freud, published in the 1950's and previously taken to be authoritative.
        Dr. Roazen's book, however, was not considered to be a challenge to Freudian theory in the main.
        E. James Lieberman, a psychiatrist in private practice in Washington and a biographer of Freud's close colleague Otto Rank, said that Dr. Roazen's work had ''opened up a whole field of historiography of psychoanalysis, essentially barren before him, that was anathema to the establishment but later absorbed into the mainstream.''
        In an earlier book, ''Brother Animal: The Story of Freud and Tausk'' (Knopf, 1969), Dr. Roazen (pronounced ROE-zuhn) looked at the relationship of the master with a student, and later a colleague, Viktor Tausk, who committed suicide in 1919. A more recent book, ''How Freud Worked: First-Hand Accounts of Patients'' (Jason Aronson, 1995), continued Dr. Roazen's fascination with Freud's breaches of his stated methods and practices. It revealed that Freud had analyzed his daughter, Anna, as well as a friend of Anna's, Eva Rosenfeld, while Eva lived in Freud's household, despite his emphasis on maintaining objective distance between analyst and patient.
        A review of the book in The New York Times found that the book was, in part, fueled by gossip but acknowledged that Dr. Roazen had established certain patterns and practices in Freud's work. ''Freud did not keep his analytic life separate from his personal life,'' it said. ''Everyone Freud analyzed was either translating his writings, acting as an emissary for him, finding him summer homes, keeping company with his daughter or his son, or taking care of him in old age. The analytic world was small and ingrown.''
        Dr. Roazen's chronicles extended to other practitioners and eminent disciples of Freud. He published one book about the psychobiographer and theorist Erik H. Erikson, and another about Helene Deutsch, the Boston psychoanalyst who had been a client of Freud's in Vienna.
        A professor of social and political science at York University in Toronto, Dr. Roazen also developed psychological portraits of Woodrow Wilson and other political leaders.
        Paul Roazen was born in Boston. He received his doctorate in political science from Harvard, where he was an assistant professor of government from 1968 to 1971.
        He then moved to York University and remained there for the rest of his career. He was named a professor of social and political science in 1974. After retiring in 1995, he returned to Cambridge.
        In 1993, Dr. Roazen was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada. He was made an honorary member of the American Psychoanalytic Association in 2004.
        Dr. Roazen's marriage to Deborah Heller ended in divorce.
        He is survived by two sons, Daniel Heller-Roazen, a professor of comparative literature at Princeton, and Jules Roazen of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Bernard Roazen of San Francisco; and a sister, Sheila Weiss of Westport, Conn.
      