
        C. DeLores Tucker, an outspoken advocate for minority and women's rights who marched arm in arm with Martin Luther King Jr. at Selma, Ala., and campaigned against profanity-ridden rap music lyrics, died on Oct. 12 at a rehabilitation center in Philadelphia. She was 78.
        Peter Bailey, editor of ''Vital Issues: The Journal of African-American Speeches,'' which Mrs. Tucker founded, confirmed her death.
        When she was 16, Mrs. Tucker raised her voice from the back of a flatbed truck to protest a Philadelphia hotel's refusal to admit black athletes. She went on to become the highest-ranking black woman in any state government when she served as secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the 1970's.
        She started the first Commission on the Status of Women in Pennsylvania and helped found and led the National Political Congress of Black Women. She held leadership positions in the Democratic Party, the National Women's Caucus and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, among many other organizations.
        Mrs. Tucker achieved perhaps her greatest fame in the 1990's when she campaigned against gangsta rap lyrics, calling them ''sleazy, pornographic smut.'' At one point, she bought 20 shares of Time-Warner stock and rose at an annual meeting to demand the company's leaders read aloud the lyrics on records one of their subsidiaries was selling. They declined.
        In her zeal to fight gangsta rap, the fiercely partisan Democrat found herself allied with William J. Bennett, the conservative Republican who held top posts in the presidential administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.
        Despite having raised more than $1 million for the N.A.A.C.P. as a public speaker, she picketed the organization's Image Awards because the rapper Tupac Shakur had been nominated for one. At the time, he was accused of sexually assaulting a 20-year-old female fan in New York and with shooting two Atlanta police officers in a traffic dispute.
        At her funeral on Oct. 21, former Vice President Al Gore, one of many political leaders in attendance, called Mrs. Tucker ''a four-star general in the battle for righteousness.''
        Cynthia DeLores Nottage was born in Philadelphia on Oct. 4, 1927, as the 10th of 11 children of the Rev. Whitfield Nottage and the former Captilda Gardiner. The children were raised in a strict religious atmosphere, not allowed to dance, listen to music or date until they were 21.
        Because her father refused to accept pay for his pastor posts, Mrs. Tucker's mother became an entrepreneur to feed the family. She founded an employment agency for Southern blacks who migrated northward for jobs, ran a grocery store and became a landlord. When Mrs. Tucker later inherited some of those properties, political opponents accused her of being a slumlord.
        She attended Temple University but did not earn a degree. Her first involvement in civil rights came when she registered black voters for a Philadelphia mayoral campaign in 1950.
        The next year, she married William Tucker, a real estate executive, who is her only immediate survivor. They had no children but helped raise a number of relatives in their extended families.
        In the 1960's, she campaigned for black candidates, served on the Pennsylvania Democratic Committee and earned a reputation as an excellent fund-raiser. She was the first black and the first woman elected to the Philadelphia Zoning Board. In 1971, Gov. Milton J. Shapp appointed her secretary of the commonwealth, equivalent to secretary of state in other states.
        As secretary, she was a leader in instituting voter registration by mail and lowering the voting age to 18. Governor Shapp fired her in 1977 because of accusations that she used state employees to write speeches for which she was paid $66,931.
        She ran unsuccessfully for Congress, lieutenant governor and the United States Senate.
        Her involvement with gangsta rap began when a niece she was raising was ostracized for using foul language she had picked up from listening to the music. Music industry executives responded by suing her, and much of her later life was tangled in complicated suits and countersuits.
        In 1997, she sued the estate of Mr. Shakur, who was shot to death the year before, for $10 million, alleging defamation for mentioning her in an obscene lyric. The suit was dismissed.
      