
        Dr. Thomas Royle Dawber, who led the revolutionary Framingham Heart Study that identified the major risk factors for heart disease, died Nov. 23 in Naples, Fla. He was 92.
        He had Alzheimer's disease and was at a long-term care center, said his daughter, Dr. Nancy H. Dawber.
        In 1949, Dr. Thomas Dawber was chosen the first director of the heart study, which the Public Health Service started in 1948 to look for the causes of heart disease and to test strategies to prevent it.
        Unlike earlier heart disease studies, which looked at patients who were already ill and then tried to deduce some common thread, the Framingham study recruited 5,209 healthy men and women ages 30 to 60 in Framingham, Mass., to follow their medical histories.
        When people in the study became ill from heart disease, the researchers could look in their health records and deduce what previous health conditions could have helped the disease take hold.
        ''He was the chief architect of the study,'' said Dr. William B. Kannel, who succeeded Dr. Dawber as the study director in 1966.
        In 1961, Dr. Dawber was an author of the landmark scientific paper that isolated the major risk factors associated with heart disease: high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels and certain irregularities in the electrical patterns in the heart. The paper also noted hints of a connection between smoking and heart disease.
        ''This was a really critical new step in studying cardiovascular disease,'' said Dr. Daniel Levy, the current director of the study, now in its 57th year.
        The study was the first to put forward the concept of ''risk factors,'' and that approach has been applied to cancer, arthritis and other diseases. Such a study ''provides clues about the how the disease starts,'' Dr. Kannel said.
        Shortly after Dr. Dawber became director of the project, the newly established National Heart Institute took over the study from the Public Health Service. With the goals of finding causes of heart disease and preventing it, the project ''had kind of a confused dual mission, really without much direction and scientific purpose,'' Dr. Levy said.
        Dr. Dawber and others realized that so little was known about heart disease that it would be much too early to look for prevention strategies. Instead, he focused on the more reachable goal, finding the causes.
        Born in Duncan, British Columbia, in 1913, Thomas Royle Dawber graduated from Haverford College in Pennsylvania in 1933. He attended Harvard Medical School, completing his medical degree in 1937. He served in the Public Health Service before taking over the Framingham project.
        He left it in 1966, in part because of budget cuts, and moved to Boston University, where he became chairman of preventive medicine. The heart institute, which had become the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, decided that the study had achieved its goals and that it could be shut down.
        At Boston University, Dr. Dawber raised enough private money to keep the study going. As a steady stream of scientific papers from the study continued, the institute reversed its decision a few years later. The study now continues to follow not just the original participants, but also many of their children and grandchildren.
        The research has generated more than 1,000 scientific papers, and many of the significant findings, like the connection between high blood pressure and strokes and the benefits of good cholesterol (H.D.L. or high density lipoprotein) were produced after the restoration of federal financing.
        In addition to his daughter Nancy, of Naples, Fla., a son, John, of Needham, Mass., and two grandchildren survive.
      