
        Elrod Hendricks, who spent nearly four decades with the Orioles as a catcher and coach and came to be revered in Baltimore for his community work and his bonds with the fans, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Glen Burnie, Md., a day before his 65th birthday.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Orioles said. They had planned to assign Hendricks to off-field work next season as a result of a minor stroke he had in April that kept him away from his bullpen-coaching duties for a time.
        Playing in the major leagues for 12 seasons -- appearing with three World Series teams as an Oriole (1969 to 1971) and another as a Yankee (1976) -- and spending 28 summers as the Baltimore bullpen coach, Hendricks was the archetype of the baseball lifer. He was the Orioles' last active link to Manager Earl Weaver's pennant-winning clubs.
        Brooks Robinson, Baltimore's star third baseman of the Weaver era, called Hendricks ''the most beloved Oriole of all time.''
        ''Every ballpark that we would go into, he'd be the first on the field signing autographs and saying hello,'' Robinson told The Associated Press on Thursday.
        Hendricks, a native of the Virgin Islands, became the public face of the Orioles, making numerous visits to hospitals and sometimes to the homes of fans who were ill. He ran a baseball camp in the Baltimore area, hitting baseballs to youngsters in the mornings before going to the ballpark, and he loved chatting with fans, even giving out cool towels to bleacher devotees from his spot in the bullpen.
        ''No one was like him,'' Frank Robinson, the Washington Nationals' manager and former Oriole outfielder and manager, told The Baltimore Sun on Thursday in recalling Hendricks's ties to the fans. ''No one is going to be like him after this.''
        Hendricks caught in the major leagues from 1969 to 1978, playing for the Orioles except for brief stints with the Yankees and the Chicago Cubs. Often a platoon player, he had a career batting average of .220, but he was an astute handler of Baltimore's outstanding pitching staffs.
        Hendricks's best-remembered moment as a catcher came when the Orioles played the Cincinnati Reds in the 1970 World Series. In the sixth inning of Game 1, the Reds' Bernie Carbo headed for home on a ball chopped high in front of the plate. The umpire, Ken Burkhart, took a spill in a collision at home plate and called Carbo out, though the Reds insisted that Burkhart had not seen the play. Replays showed that Hendricks swiped at Carbo with his glove but had the baseball in his other hand. The Orioles went on to win the game, 4-3, and took the World Series in five games, with Hendricks, who had a game-winning double in Game 2, batting .364.
        Last Monday, Hendricks played his customary role as Santa Claus in the Orioles' holiday party for children, then he went out to distribute gifts to needy youngsters.
        He is survived by his wife, Merle, and six children.
        Hendricks seemed the epitome of perpetual cheer, but he could bristle when his Orioles stumbled, as they have in recent years. ''I get tired of the Orioles being the butt of all jokes,'' he told The Washington Post in 2003. ''I take pride in the uniform I put on, and I expect everyone else who puts it on to have pride.''
      