
        Charles Engell France, a writer on dance, a collector and the influential assistant to Mikhail Baryshnikov when he was artistic director of American Ballet Theater in the 1980's, died on Sunday. He was 59.
        Mr. France collapsed in his apartment building on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and was dead on arrival at Roosevelt Hospital, said Ellen Levene, a colleague. The cause is not yet known but Mr. France had been in poor health for years.
        Born in Oklahoma City, Mr. France spent part of his childhood in Copenhagen, where he studied at the school of the Royal Danish Ballet. He received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University and worked toward a master's degree in French literature at the Sorbonne, Yale and Columbia. But his great passion was ballet, which he also studied briefly at the New Dance Group Studio in Manhattan.
        He drew upon his extensive knowledge of the art form and its practitioners in collaborations with Mr. Baryshnikov on two books, which Mr. France edited: ''Baryshnikov at Work'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1978) and ''Baryshnikov in Color'' (Harry N. Abrams, 1980). Mr. France also wrote for Ballet Review early in his career, on topics including the choreographer Eliot Feld and the New York City Ballet's 1972 Stravinsky Festival.
        But he was best known for his work at Ballet Theater. A looming backstage presence who knew and seemed to be known by just about everybody in ballet, Mr. France worked his way up through the ranks. At Columbia in the late 1960's he answered an ad for a summer job as a driver for Justin Colin, a financier who was a Ballet Theater trustee and later president of the American Ballet Theater Foundation. They soon became friends, and Mr. Colin put Mr. France in charge of several small company projects. He went on to work in the press office at Ballet Theater and was director of the office when Mr. Baryshnikov was named artistic director in 1980.
        Mr. Baryshnikov named Mr. France as his assistant, and the two worked together to revitalize Ballet Theater, doing away with the company's long tradition of imported guest artists and adding to the repertory numerous ballets by George Balanchine and carefully chosen modern-dance pieces by choreographers including Merce Cunningham and Paul Taylor. They commissioned work from cutting-edge modern-dance choreographers like Mark Morris, David Gordon, Karole Armitage and Twyla Tharp, whom Mr. Baryshnikov appointed artistic associate of the troupe in 1988.
        Mr. France was widely recognized as a brilliant, astute artistic adviser who did not suffer disagreement gladly. His autocratic manner was irritating to many, and sometimes hurtful. But he helped shape careers of promising dancers and administrators. ''He taught me to fight for myself, to see -- on the stage and in life,'' said Susan Jones, a corps dancer who is today a ballet mistress with the company.
        In 1989 Mr. France became a central figure in a dispute between Mr. Baryshnikov and Jane Hermann, who had just been named an executive director of Ballet Theater. Mr. Baryshnikov abruptly left the company that September after Ms. Hermann placed Mr. France, who had been sick, on a year's leave of absence, an action Mr. Baryshnikov considered unfair and an infringement of his authority. Neither returned.
        Mr. France also collected costume jewelry and other antiques, a pursuit to which he devoted his post-Ballet Theater years.
        He has no known survivors.
      