
        Robert F. Newmyer, a prominent independent-film producer whose credits include ''sex, lies and videotape'' and the ''Santa Clause'' movies, died on Monday while on location in Toronto. He was 49 and had homes in Los Angeles and Telluride, Colo.
        Mr. Newmyer, a lifelong asthma sufferer, died of a heart attack triggered by asthma after exercising at a health club, Michelle Kydd Lee, a family spokeswoman, said. He was in Toronto working on a film, ''Breach,'' starring Chris Cooper, Laura Linney and Ryan Phillippe, which is scheduled to be released next year.
        With Jeffrey Silver, Mr. Newmyer founded Outlaw Productions in 1987. Two years later, they had their first hit with ''sex, lies and videotape,'' the first feature by the writer and director Steven Soderbergh.
        A drama of love, lust and betrayal in the lives of two sisters (Andie MacDowell and Laura San Giacomo), ''sex, lies and videotape'' was made for just $1.1 million. It was released by Miramax Films.
        Among Outlaw's best-known productions are ''The Santa Clause'' (1994) and ''The Santa Clause 2'' (2002). The third film in the series, which, like the others, stars Tim Allen, is in production. Other recent credits include ''Training Day'' and ''The Thing About My Folks.''
        Mr. Newmyer's involvement with his films sometimes transcended a producer's customary role. To make ''Phat Girlz,'' a forthcoming romantic comedy, he put up nearly $3 million of his own money, obtained by liquidating personal assets and mortgaging his homes.
        Mr. Newmyer recently bought the feature film rights to ''The Lost Boys of Sudan,'' which originated as a segment on ''60 Minutes.'' Currently in development, the film centers on the lives of thousands of young refugees from Sudan's civil war who were later resettled in the United States. Mr. Newmyer became an advocate for the children in this country, providing temporary accommodations for some of them in his home.
        Robert Frederick Newmyer, was born in Washington on May 30, 1956. He received a bachelor's degree in economics from Swarthmore in 1978 and afterward worked as a real estate developer in Telluride. After earning a master's from Harvard Business School in 1982, he held various positions at Columbia Pictures, eventually becoming a vice president of production and acquisitions.
        Mr. Newmyer is survived by his wife, Deborah; two daughters, Sofi and Billi; two sons, Teddy and James; his parents, Jimmy and Ginger Newmyer, of Washington; and two sisters, Elsa, of Washington, and Lory, of Hull, Mass.
      