
        Frederik Jacques Philips, the former president of the Dutch electronics giant that bears his family's name, who was credited with saving hundreds of Jews during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands in World War II, died on Monday. He was 100.
        The cause was pneumonia and complications from a fall last week, said Rene Westbroek, a company spokesman.
        Born and raised long before many of the products that would make his company a household name had even been developed, Mr. Philips, who was known as Frits, was a successful businessman who was more interested in the common good than the corporate coffers. Mr. Philips, along with his predecessors at the company, helped build houses for company employees along with sports clubs and cultural institutions.
        Mr. Philips's father, Anton, was a co-founder of Royal Philips Electronics with his brother. Mr. Philips was the last member of his family to serve as president of the company, a worldwide concern based in Amsterdam that sells consumer electronics, lighting, semiconductors and medical technology. He held that office for just 10 years, stepping down in 1971.
        Mr. Philips remained in the Netherlands during World War II even after most of his family fled to North America, essentially leaving him in control of the company. Under pressure from the Nazi occupiers, Philips opened a factory inside a concentration camp in 1943 in the Dutch town of Vught.
        Mr. Philips reportedly tried to hire as many Jews as possible and then told the Nazi occupiers that they were irreplaceable, a strategy that prevented many of them from being sent to Auschwitz.
        Of the 469 Jews employed at the factory, 382 survived the war, according to a company history. Mr. Philips himself was imprisoned by the Nazis after some of his company's workers at other factories went on strike.
        In 1996, Israel awarded Mr. Philips a Yad Vashem medal given to non-Jews who risked their lives to save Jews during the Holocaust.
        In spite of that distinction, a book published two years ago in the Netherlands said that Philips opened the factory in Vught not only to save lives but also to guarantee the company's own survival. The company's factories in nearby Eindhoven were badly damaged by Allied bombers and the company's viability was in danger, the book's authors said.
        A Dutch war documentation center said Tuesday that the company played a double role in the war because its factory production contributed to the German war industry as well.
        Mr. Philips stayed on at the company after the war while other family members directed it. He was given the top job in 1961.
        During his 10 years as president, the company's revenue tripled, thanks in part to soaring demand for color television sets. The work force in the period grew to 367,000 employees from 226,000.
        Mr. Philips wife, Sylvia van Lennep, whom he married in 1929, died in 1992. They had three sons and four daughters.
        Much of the nation -- and nearly everyone in Mr. Philips' hometown, Eindhoven -- knew him simply as Mr. Frits, a deeply religious man who was a fanatic supporter of the local soccer team, PSV Eindhoven.
        Just before his 100th birthday, Mr. Philips told a local newspaper that one of the things he was most proud of was that he never lost touch with the common man. He preferred to watch soccer matches at Philips stadium in Eindhoven in the bleachers with factory workers rather than in the corporate skybox with company executives.
        Tuesday evening, in a match against a Turkish team from Istanbul broadcast on national television, Eindhoven's soccer players wore black armbands in honor of Mr. Philips. Having literally followed the team for the last 93 years, it was one of the few matches he ever missed.
      