
        John D. Laupheimer, who oversaw the virtual doubling of players' earnings as commissioner of the Ladies Professional Golf Association during the 1980's amid inroads from a newly popular senior men's tour, died Monday in London, where he had lived for the past year. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, John Jr.
        Mr. Laupheimer served as L.P.G.A. commissioner from 1982 to 1988, a span in which prize money rose to $12.5 million from $6.4 million. He created retirement and medical plans for Tour members, the first such benefits in pro golf.
        But during his six and a half years as commissioner, the L.P.G.A.'s quest for television exposure and corporate backing faced competition from the men's Senior PGA Tour, now called the Champions Tour, which emerged as a major attraction, complementing the popular men's PGA Tour.
        In the 1988 season, Mazda dropped sponsorship of its season-opening L.P.G.A. event and its yearlong women's bonus pool, and a loss of sponsorship money from other sources forced the cancellation of the Lady Westchester Open as well as a trimming of purses at the Greater Washington Open.
        In June 1988, Tour players, concerned that marketing opportunities had been missed, voted to seek Mr. Laupheimer's resignation. He resigned a month later, two years into a five-year contract, but stayed on until his successor, William Blue, a corporate marketing executive, was named commissioner in November 1988.
        Mr. Laupheimer told Knight-Ridder Newspapers in October 1988 that he had essentially decided on his own to step down. ''I asked them to make a change,'' he said. ''While I feel the Tour has done very well, we had reached a plateau.''
        Mr. Laupheimer, a native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Princeton, was an investment banker before becoming a golf administrator. He was president of Merion Golf Club in Ardmore, Pa., and executive director of administration for the United States Golf Association before joining the L.P.G.A. as executive director in 1981.
        He is survived by his second wife, Sally Bott; his son, John Jr., of Weston, Mass., and his daughters, Ann Sonnenfeld, of Haverford, Pa., and Helen Schlosser, of Philadelphia, from his marriage to Ann Zabel, which ended in divorce; a brother, Curtis, of Haverford, Pa.; and eight grandchildren.
      