
        Dr. Morton Birnbaum, a physician, lawyer and mental health advocate who worked to establish and expand rights for mentally ill patients, died on Nov. 26 at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. He was 79 and lived in Brooklyn Heights.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Birnbaum began fighting for mentally ill patients after graduating from medical school in 1957. In 1960 the American Bar Association Journal printed an article by Dr. Birnbaum that apparently included the first published use of the term ''right to treatment'' as it applied to the mentally ill.
        At that time, courts in the United States did not recognize that such patients had an affirmative right to receive mental health treatment.
        Dr. Birnbaum helped establish rights for patients in several major lawsuits. He was a lawyer in the early stages of the landmark O'Connor v. Donaldson case, which went to the United States Supreme Court. The 1975 decision in that case established that patients cannot be confined involuntarily if they are not a proven threat and are not being treated, but it stopped short of establishing a constitutional right to treatment.
        Though Dr. Birnbaum was not a lawyer in an Alabama case that identified a constitutional right to treatment while confined and that ultimately established federal standards for treatment, his ideas and theories were critical to the case, according to a spokeswoman for the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law in Washington.
        Morton Birnbaum was born in 1926 in Brooklyn. He received a bachelor's degree from Columbia in 1948, a law degree from Columbia Law School in 1951, and his M.D. from New York Medical College in 1957.
        Dr. Birnbaum also worked as a private physician and was often not paid for his legal work. He continued his work for better care in hospitals and for Medicaid benefits for patients in state hospitals.
        He is survived by his wife, Judith, of Brooklyn; three sons, Jacob, of New York City, Julius, of Baltimore, and David, of New York City; three daughters, Jan, of Westchester, N.Y., Belinda, of Philadelphia, and Rebecca, of New York City; a brother, Bernard, of New Jersey; and three grandchildren.
      