
        Eliot Freidson, a sociologist at New York University who studied the inner workings of society's professions, particularly the way doctors are organized to practice medicine, died on Dec. 14 in a hospice in San Francisco. He was 82.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said.
        Dr. Freidson (pronounced FRIDE-son) studied the hierarchy and organizational structure within law and engineering, but he was most widely known for his long-running study of medicine. He was interested in the profession's makeup of largely self-regulating bodies with unique expertise and, as a result, in its having uncommon ethical obligations to society.
        In his influential book ''Profession of Medicine: A Study of the Sociology of Applied Knowledge'' (1970), Dr. Freidson looked comprehensively at the field's history and internal politics, and at the powerful bonds formed between doctor and patient.
        In a later book, ''Doctoring Together: A Study of Professional Social Control'' (1976), he expanded on his observations and concluded that ''doctors had no effective way of disciplining people in their group for incompetence or ethical lapses,'' said Howard S. Becker, a former professor of sociology at Northwestern University.
        ''He found that, as a result, doctors tended to steer their own patients away from incompetence and unethical behavior,'' Dr. Becker continued, as an unspoken and unofficial mechanism to regulate their profession.
        In the 1980's and 90's, Dr. Freidson warned of increasing commercialism and bureaucratic control as threats to the independence of professions, citing the proliferation of health care management organizations and the erosion of doctors' autonomy in practicing medicine.
        In his book ''Professionalism Reborn: Theory, Prophecy and Policy'' (1994), Dr. Freidson reported observing broader changes in the professions, in which ''everyday practitioners become subject to the control of professional elites who continue to exercise the considerable technical, administrative and cultural authority that professions have had in the past.''
        Eliot Lazarus Freidson was born in Boston. He received his doctorate in sociology from the University of Chicago in 1952.
        He taught at City College of New York before being named an associate professor of sociology at N.Y.U. in 1961 and a full professor in 1964. He was department chairman from 1975 to 1978 and retired in 1993, though he continued to write and teach as a visiting professor at the University of California, San Francisco.
        Dr. Freidson was a former president of the Eastern Sociological Society and an editor of The Journal of Health and Social Behavior. In 1972, he was elected to the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Freidson is survived by his wife of 29 years, Helen Giambruni, an art historian. The couple lived in San Francisco and Sag Harbor, N.Y. Two of his previous marriages ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by a son, Matthew, of Lewes, England; a daughter, Jane, of Brooklyn; two sisters, Ruth Kavesh of Manhattan and Adele Feldman of Boston; and four grandchildren.
      