
        Miller Upton, who during 21 years as president of Beloit College found innovative and widely imitated ways to maximize the college's educational and financial resources, died yesterday at his home in Fontana, Wis. He was 88.
        The college, in Beloit, Wis., announced his death.
        Dr. Upton's presidency of Beloit, a liberal arts college, was marked by intensive study of its performance and mission, followed by wide-ranging initiatives, the best known being a plan for keeping the college operating year-round.
        The Beloit Plan, as the project was called, involved getting rid of the traditional two-semester format with an annual summer vacation and replacing it with a three-term year running through the summer. The plan was adopted elsewhere but was later largely discontinued. Beloit eventually dropped it as well.
        New students took three consecutive 15-week terms that carried them through the summer. For the next five terms, students were required to spend two terms on campus; one term in an approved activity like overseas study or an internship, and two terms on vacation. The last three terms were spent on campus, during which students concentrated on their majors.
        The Beloit Plan, begun in 1964, was intended to increase the number of students to maximize use of facilities, and to gain greater revenue through tuition. It was widely imitated by other colleges, including Dartmouth College, which used a similar plan to create more spaces for women when it began to admit them in the 1973 academic year.
        Under the plan, Beloit grew to 1,600 students in 1973 from 1,000 in 1963, and its budget rose to $4.8 million from $3.5 million. It transformed a $22,500 deficit into a $97,000 surplus.
        In addition to the expected foreign study and internships in government offices, the plan enabled one student to be an evangelist in Ohio, another to work in a factory in Denmark and still another to teach English in Indonesia. Not surprisingly, many students went south to escape the Wisconsin winter.
        Beloit dropped its year-round plan in the late 1970's, citing factors like smaller enrollments and changed student interests. Dartmouth and most of the other colleges that had imitated all or parts of the plan also made significant changes in the original vision.
        Dr. Upton, a native of New Orleans, attended Tulane University, where he was president of the student body and his achievements as a tackle on the football team earned him a place on the All-America team chosen by Sports Illustrated on its 25th anniversary. He earned an M.B.A. from Harvard and a Ph.D. from Northwestern.
        He arrived at Beloit from Washington University in St. Louis, where he was dean of the School of Business and Public Administration. He previously taught at Washington, Northwestern and Lake Forest College.
        In addition to building Beloit's enrollment, Dr. Upton built buildings, including a new library, a science center and a performing arts center. In 1960, he started the World Outlook program to coordinate foreign study opportunities. About 40 percent of Beloit students now study abroad in their college years.
        In 1963, Dr. Upton won a $1.6 million grant from the Ford Foundation to carry out the Beloit Plan. In 1971, he set up a sliding scale of tuition fees, with students paying different amounts based on their ability to pay.
        Dr. Upton, who resigned in 1975, is survived by his wife, June; and three sons, Randall, of Delavan, Wis.; Thomas, of Independence, Ky.; and Richard, of Richmond, Va.
      