
        , the fashion director of Bloomingdale's, whose instinct for trends was so keen and enthusiasm for promotion so vigorous that he frequently upstaged even his more famous designers, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of lymphoma, said Anne Keating, the senior vice president for public relations at Bloomingdale's.
        As the most visible face of Bloomingdale's during his 28-year career there, Mr. Ruttenstein, known as Kal, informed shoppers of what would be important for the season by blending the latest designs from the runways of Paris, New York and Milan with mainstream versions of the same trends, produced for the store by manufacturers at his request. He also liberally lifted ideas from what was happening in pop culture, creating in-store boutiques with designs inspired by movies and musicals, pairing fashion with the music from ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' ''Hairspray'' and ''Saturday Night Fever.''
        His role as the chief interpreter of style for the store, ensuring that Bloomingdale's was stocked with tiered peasant skirts or hot pants well before consumers knew they wanted them, was sometimes at odds with the designers he favored. Gianni Versace once banned Mr. Ruttenstein from a fashion show because Bloomingdale's carried similar men's wear designs under the store's own label. But few harbored grudges against Mr. Ruttenstein for long. He often pulled the strings behind the scenes that helped advance many designers' careers.
        ''He was really the one man who was the voice of the designer,'' Donna Karan said. ''He understood us as designers, and then he could explain us to the consumer.''
        Mr. Ruttenstein was a vibrant presence at fashion shows, offering reporters his enthusiastic endorsement of collections he liked, and for those he did not, an excuse that he could not talk at the moment.
        But he found more inspiration in the most stylish restaurants: Balthazar or Da Silvano in New York, Bice in Milan and Le Stresa in Paris, where he was fond of pointing out unexpected celebrities like Marc Jacobs with Lee Radziwill or speculating on whether certain customers paid more for their dates than for their dinners.
        Most of his favorite restaurants stocked glass bottles of Diet Coke because Mr. Ruttenstein was a famously fickle diner, who appreciated a high level of carbonation in his soft drinks, and his stamp of approval for good service would cement a restaurant's reputation.
        ''Restaurants are the discothèques of the first decade of the new century,'' he said in DNR, the men's wear publication. ''I have to be out there to see what everyone is wearing. I don't feel like I'm doing my job if I'm not out at night.''
        Mr. Ruttenstein had a serious stroke on Jan. 30, 1997, but within a few months he returned to his usual schedule of attending fashion shows and traveling to Europe up to six times a year. His new uniform was a more comfortable Sean John velour tracksuit paired with white sneakers and a custom-tailored blazer.
        By studying stylish women, Mr. Ruttenstein was quick to recognize when cropped jackets or jeans as skinny as stovepipes were about to take off. And he had a knack for gauging which movie or Broadway show would be a hit and would commission promotional merchandise and events around them, as he did when he saw the musical ''Rent'' in 1996.
        ''Kal had a unique ability to see what wasn't there,'' said Michael Gould, the chief executive of Bloomingdale's, part of Federated Department Stores. ''He could conceptualize about something that had nothing to do with fashion and make it applicable to the business.''
        Mr. Ruttenstein also promoted many young designers, clearing window displays to expose the work of those who were then unknown to general audiences, including Zac Posen and Helmut Lang.
        Ms. Karan recalled that in 1975, when Mr. Ruttenstein was president of Bonwit Teller, before he joined Bloomingdale's, he dedicated a window to her first solo designs for Anne Klein, including cow-print skirts shown in a sea of oversize red balloons, a modern display for the time.
        In 1988, he recommended to Robert McDonald, then the president of Perry Ellis, that Marc Jacobs should become its women's designer, helping establish Mr. Jacobs's career.
        Kalman Ruttenstein was born on June 9, 1936, in Buffalo, where his parents, Maxwell and Rose Ruttenstein, owned three clothing shops. In his teens, he often accompanied his mother to buying trips to Seventh Avenue, before pursuing an English degree at Princeton University, from which he graduated in 1958, and an M.B.A. from Columbia University.
        In 1960, Mr. Ruttenstein entered the training program at Lord & Taylor, and in 1972, he went to Saks Fifth Avenue as a vice president, making his reputation as a fashion seer when the store quickly sold out of thousands of tie-dyed jeans, shirts and jackets he had ordered while on vacation in St.-Tropez.
        In 1977, Marvin Traub, then the president of Bloomingdale's, hired Mr. Ruttenstein from Bonwit Teller to shake up the store's stodgy image. Mr. Ruttenstein responded with a range of collections from young designers. When Bloomingdale's changed its focus to lower-priced collections in the 1990's, he responded by looking for ways to offer adaptations of the runway collections. ''My job in the 80's was much more just looking around,'' Mr. Ruttenstein said in an interview in The New Yorker in 1994. ''In the 90's, I gotta make it happen.''
        Mr. Ruttenstein left no immediate survivors .
      