
        Dr. Herman Roiphe, a psychoanalyst who explored the notion of sexual identity in early childhood development, died on Dec. 14 in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Working with another researcher, Dr. Eleanor Galenson, Dr. Roiphe (pronounced ROY-fee) drew on his clinical practice and time spent with children in nurseries to refine existing Freudian notions of when children begin their psychosexual development.
        Their research resulted in an important book, ''Infantile Origins of Sexual Identity'' (1981), which showed that ''sexual awareness starts earlier than what Freud had held, and that by 18 months of age children start feeling the differences between boys and girls,'' said Dr. Leon Hoffman, a psychoanalyst and director of the Pacella Parent Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute.
        Dr. Roiphe and his wife, Anne, a novelist, collaborated later on a popular book, ''Your Child's Mind'' (1985). The book looked at mental health aspects of divorce, spanking and toilet training, and explained possible causes and therapies for autism and child psychoses. It focused on children up to age 10, and was an effort to summarize and place into context many conditions that Dr. Roiphe considered to have been obscured by academic jargon.
        Herman Roiphe was born in Brooklyn, and earned his undergraduate and medical degrees at Columbia. After training at Yale and the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, he became an assistant professor of psychiatry at the Albert Einstein Medical College at Yeshiva University, from 1967 to 1978. That year he was named an associate professor of psychiatry at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and remained there until this month.
        Dr. Roiphe's first marriage ended in divorce. In addition to his wife Anne, whom he married in 1967, he is survived by five daughters: Katie, the writer, and Rebecca, both of Brooklyn; Margaret, of Los Angeles; Emily, of Minneapolis; and Dr. Jean, of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
      