
        Michael A. W. Evans, a photographer whose picture of Ronald Reagan in a well-worn cowboy hat was on the covers of Time, Newsweek and People after Mr. Reagan's death last year, died yesterday at his home in Atlanta. He was 61.
        The cause was cancer, the National Press Photographers Association said.
        Mr. Evans worked for Time magazine, The New York Times and other publications, but was best known as the official White House photographer during the Reagan administration. He was by the president's side when he was shot in 1981, and for weeks afterward Mr. Reagan was seen by the public almost exclusively in still photographs taken by Mr. Evans or his staff of four.
        The photograph of Mr. Reagan, smiling his celebrated, slightly crooked smile, was taken in 1975 during the early months of his losing campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, Mr. Evans said in interviews in 2004.
        The only child of Canadian diplomats, Mr. Evans was born in St. Louis and lived in South Africa and Cuba as a youth. At 15, he shot pictures for $2 each for The Port Hope Evening Guide in Ontario. He attended Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario.
        He worked at The Cleveland Plain Dealer before joining The Times. His photographs of Mr. Reagan's 1980 campaign prompted the new administration to make him official photographer, a position begun by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        In 1982, Mr. Evans decided to photograph 595 of the most powerful people in Washington and set up a nonprofit corporation to do it. The pictures were exhibited at the Corcoran Gallery; some prints are now in the Library of Congress, with negatives in the National Archives.
        He later served as photography editor of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and developed computer software for finding photographs in large collections, which he sold to the J. Paul Getty Museum and others.
        Mr. Evans is survived by two daughters and a son from his marriage to Linda Anne Forde, which ended in divorce, as well as his wife, the former Story Shem, and their two daughters.
      