
        Swami Jagdishwaranand, a prominent Hindu spiritual leader in New York City who was responsible for establishing several temples here, died last Thursday at the Geeta Temple in Elmhurst, Queens. The swami, who founded the temple more than 30 years ago and made his home there, was 71.
        Swami Jagdishwaranand died after a short illness, according to Anil Dass, a temple member.
        One of the major centers of Hindu religious life in the metropolitan area, the Geeta Temple is among the oldest Hindu temples in the country. Swami Jagdishwaranand founded it in 1972, several years after arriving in New York; he had previously worked here as a penniless teacher of yoga. The swami also founded Divya Dham, a vast temple complex and living-history museum in Woodside, Queens.
        Devoted to the teachings of the Bhagavad-Gita, one of Hinduism's most sacred texts, the Geeta Temple primarily serves immigrants from northern India. It occupies a former A.&P. supermarket on a commercial block, its magnificent interior appointed with carved statues of Hindu deities. (The swami's living quarters, by contrast, were rigorously ascetic.)
        In keeping with tradition for a swami, or Hindu religious teacher, Swami Jagdishwaranand spoke little of his early life as a worldly person. According to Mr. Dass, the swami was born in the village of Sohagaura, in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, on March 13, 1934.
        Orphaned as a boy, he was taken in by a prominent chief swami, who became his guru. Educated in Varanasi and Calcutta, Swami Jagdishwaranand was given his religious name on becoming a holy man. His original name is unknown.
        After United States immigration laws were revised in 1965 to admit more non-Europeans, Swami Jagdishwaranand came to New York. The Geeta Temple began in 1971 in a basement apartment in the borough's Sunnyside section. The next year, the temple officially opened on 48th Avenue in Elmhurst. In 1983, needing more space, it moved to in its present location, at 92-09 Corona Avenue, which accommodates 500 people.
        In 1993, Swami Jagdishwaranand opened Divya Dham in the cavernous site of a former electronics factory. In addition to traditional temple furnishings, Divya Dham features an outsize scale model of the Himalayas, showing the Ganges River appearing at its source.
        In 1996, the swami traveled to India to bring back an eternal flame, known as the Divya Jyoti, for the altar of Divya Dham. Visiting 52 sacred sites around the country, he gathered a holy flame from each one into a single light. As no airline would transport the flame, it was carried overland through Central Asia into Western Europe and across the channel to England, where it departed by ship for California.
        From there, the Divya Jyoti made its way by car across the United States to Queens, where it was installed at Divya Dham amid great ceremony. Before his trip, the swami had consulted members of the International Olympic Committee on how to keep the flame safe during its arduous journey.
        In keeping with the duties of his office, Swami Jagdishwaranand was forbidden to marry. He leaves no immediate survivors.
      