
        Kerry Packer, who became Australia's richest man by turning a magazine and television inheritance worth millions into a diverse business worth billions, died yesterday in Sydney. He was 68.
        His death was reported by his family. The Associated Press reported Mr. Packer had been plagued by ill health.
        Through his company, Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd., Mr. Packer controlled Australia's most popular television network and a magazine empire, as well as having an interest in several casinos. His fortune was estimated at $5 billion.
        There were some common points in the careers of Mr. Packer and the even richer Australian-born publisher Rupert Murdoch. Both inherited media companies. Their fathers, Sir Frank Packer and Sir Keith Murdoch, were awarded British titles for their newspaper industry achievements. Their sons multiplied their legacies into huge fortunes, sometimes as rivals, sometimes as partners.
        Unlike Mr. Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, who built that global enterprise from a single newspaper in Australia, Kerry Packer had national rather than global horizons. He once had a polo stable in Britain, made some profitable investments in the United States, employed several American executives and had a TV stake in India, but otherwise Australia was his focus.
        In the era of globalization he was an economic nationalist. One exception was his use of offshore finance havens to minimize personal taxation, a practice he defended as legitimate in the face of parliamentary and media scrutiny. This income allowed a lavish lifestyle, with personal aircraft, an oceangoing motor yacht, a private polo field and golf course, mansions and cattle ranches.
        He was often successful in lobbying Australian governments to shape media legislation to benefit his companies but was usually not able to persuade them to change laws to permit him to control newspapers as well as a TV network.
        Eager to surpass his father's success, Mr. Packer was a tireless deal maker despite illnesses and disabilities that might have defeated others.
        He suffered poliomyelitis as a child and was afflicted by dyslexia, which limited his education at private boarding schools. Mr. Packer lost a kidney to cancer at the age of 40, and in 1990 while playing polo he suffered a heart attack. He underwent kidney and cardiac surgery in 1998, and two years later required a kidney transplant, receiving an organ donated by his pilot.
        ''We are the best of friends,'' the pilot, Nick Ross, said. Mr. Ross, a former British Royal Navy flier who piloted helicopters for Mr. Packer for more than 20 years and was a regular companion, said, ''Kerry comes across as larger than life. To some he's an ogre. The truth is that he's a very kind person who has got where he is by being tough.''
        Mr. Ross's donation led Mr. Packer to give a rare TV interview to express his gratitude. Choosing a noncommercial station rather than his own Nine Network he said: ''Imagine having a friend good enough to do that. There are so few people in the world who'd do it. It is the most precious gift anyone can give.''
        Mr. Packer reputedly had few close friends, and was known for a formidably competitive and abrasive personality, which he often displayed as a negotiator in business deals and in litigation.
        His biographer, Paul Barry, whose research was opposed by Mr. Packer's lawyers, wrote that some sources ''described him as the rudest and most frightening man they've ever met.''
        He was also known for generosity, however, giving employees expensive Christmas gifts and paying large bills for workers facing sickness or debt, and was considered a lavish tipper at the Las Vegas casinos and London clubs where he frequently played high-stakes games.
        His biggest winning gamble was selling his TV network for almost $500 million in 1987 and buying it back from its bankrupt owners for about $100 million in 1990.
        Mr. Packer gave no attention to the arts or education -- his personal pursuits were polo, golf and gambling -- but he donated significantly to the Australian hospitals and medical researchers he came to know in his treatments.
        Mr. Packer's bold personality and business drive apparently derived from the example of his father, whom he succeeded in 1974.
        The elder son, Clyde, left the family company in 1972 after personal and editorial disputes with Sir Frank and settled in 1975 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He died there in 2001.
        In contrast to the mix of neglect and bullying that Kerry Packer endured from his father -- including beatings with a polo whip, which he described in a 1979 interview -- he had a warm relationship with his only son, James, who succeeded him in 2000 as head of the media and gambling companies.
        One of Mr. Packer's legacies is the revolution he brought to the British sport of cricket. In 1977-78, he thrust the game into the world of satellite TV, hiring star players away from traditional teams to play international challenge matches under lights. The cricket world condemned him at first but later adopted his changes.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalind Weedon Packer, whom he married in 1963, his son, James, and his daughter, Gretel.
      