
        Frederic B. Vogel, the founder of the Commercial Theater Institute, a teaching program for prospective Broadway producers, and a longtime expert on theater management, died on Tuesday night at his home in New York. He was in his 70's, but his family could not provide an exact age.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Adrian Bryan-Brown, a spokesman for Mr. Vogel.
        Mr. Vogel established the institute in 1982 as a seminar to teach what he had learned from years in the theatrical trenches. A native of Philadelphia, he started his career as an actor -- at the age of 9 -- before gradually moving into the administrative side, working as a stage manager, box-office treasurer and, finally, general manager for everything from national tours of Broadway productions to summer stock.
        Mr. Vogel passed on his knowledge to hundreds of fledgling producers through his institute, to which he invited all manner of theater professionals to share their expertise.
        He was blunt about the business that had fed and clothed him most of his life. ''A lot of people come looking for the formula,'' he said in a 2003 interview with The New York Times. ''And there ain't no formula.''
        Still, by mixing nuts-and-bolts training about contracts and royalty pools with more creatively oriented instruction, the institute claimed many accomplished producers as alumni, including Kevin McCollum, a producer of ''Avenue Q,'' and Nick Scandalios, the executive vice president of the Nederlander Organization, which owns nine Broadway theaters.
        Mr. Vogel was also active as a producer and investor in Broadway shows. He put his money into more than 30 productions, including hits like ''Same Time, Next Year'' (1975) and some flops as well, like ''Marlene'' (1999). His final Broadway credit was as a producer of ''Enchanted April,'' a drama that played for four months in 2003.
        Mr. Vogel's survivors include a sister, Naomi V. Zitin of Philadelphia.
      