
        Lewis J. Horowitz, who helped usher in a new wave of high-octane financial trading as chairman of the New York Futures Exchange, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was gall bladder cancer, said his wife, Jo-Ann Malkin Horowitz.
        Mr. Horowitz, who began a career on Wall Street in 1957 when he bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, became one of the Big Board's champions of new ideas. As a young floor broker, he helped execute sophisticated risk arbitrage trades that were rare at the time but have since become commonplace.
        While still a specialist, he obtained a seat to trade options on the American Stock Exchange and would rush over there during lunch to learn about the new investment tools, which did not interest most of his New York Stock Exchange colleagues at the time.
        Mr. Horowitz became chairman of the New York Futures Exchange, a small market owned and operated by the Big Board, when his business partner, John J. Phelan Jr., stepped down from the post in 1983 to become head of the stock exchange.
        He spent the next decade traveling around the world, promoting the emerging financial futures industry while trying to pry business away from its longtime home in Chicago and toward New York. Similar to commodities futures for soybeans or silver, financial futures are contractual obligations to buy or sell a stock index at a given price and time.
        The New York Futures Exchange was sold in late 1993 to the New York Cotton Exchange.
        Mr. Horowitz retired as an executive vice president of the New York Stock Exchange in 1995.
        Mr. Horowitz grew up on the Upper West Side and graduated from the Barnard School for Boys in 1952 and Brown University in 1956. His marriage to his first wife, Ann Horowitz, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1983, he is survived by two sons by his first wife, Jay, of Manhattan, and Stephen, of Pelham, N.Y.; two stepchildren, Harold Malkin, of Seattle, and Jill Malkin Addeo, of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
      