
        Peter D. Eimas, a Brown University scientist who found that babies can distinguish different sounds of speech as early as their first month and published his findings in a groundbreaking study explaining how infants acquire language, died Oct. 28 at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 70.
        His death came after a long illness, his family said.
        In experiments in the 1960's, Dr. Eimas adapted a colleague's device that used a pacifier connected to a polygraph. The pacifier was able to measure infant responses to different stimuli by recording the frequency of a baby's sucking.
        Dr. Eimas's colleague, E. R. Siqueland, also of Brown, used it initially to test responses to visual images, and they collaborated to try it for responses to sounds.
        With babies from hospitals in Providence, the scientists used a synthesizer to sound the syllables ''pah'' and ''bah.'' As the synthesizer shifted between syllables, they found that sucking rates tended to rise. The experiment suggested that infants -- from 4 months old down to merely a month old -- were capable of discriminating and might hold an innate ability to learn language.
        Dr. Eimas, Dr. Siqueland and two students published their study, ''Speech Perception in Infants,'' in 1971 in the journal Science.
        William H. Warren, chairman of the department of cognitive and linguistic sciences at Brown, said Dr. Eimas's experiments challenged the notion of speech as a wholly learned behavior and resulted in ''the application of a brand-new technique to the study of speech, and the creation of the field we know as infant language acquisition.''
        Later, Dr. Eimas elaborated on his earlier findings and turned to visual studies, looking at how babies learn to categorize pictures of objects, in this case, breeds of dogs and cats. He also conducted studies of how adults perceive speech.
        Peter Dorman Eimas was born in Bridgeport, Conn. He earned an undergraduate degree from Yale and received his doctorate from the University of Connecticut in 1959.
        Dr. Eimas taught at Williams College and briefly at Rutgers before arriving at Brown as an associate professor in 1968. He became a professor in 1971 and was chairman of the psychology department from 1977 to 1980. He was a former director of the Center for Cognitive Science at Brown. Dr. Eimas became a professor emeritus in 1996.
        He married Joanne L. Miller, a professor of psychology at Northeastern University, in 1977. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        Dr. Eimas is survived by his wife and a daughter, Leslie Eimas of Syracuse, and by three grandchildren.
      