
        Mary Aiken Littauer, whose love affair with horses began with a childhood pony, blossomed with her marriage to an officer in the cavalry of Czar Nicholas II, and flowered famously when she became a leading expert on horses of ancient times, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Syosset, N.Y. She was 93.
        Her son, Andrew, announced the death.
        Mrs. Littauer's scholarly career did not begin until her mid-50's, when her husband's health would no longer permit him to maintain his standards of horsemanship. The standards were high indeed: Vladimir S. Littauer was the author of eight books on riding and training horses, and his instructional techniques are still used.
        Not wanting to ride alone, Mrs. Littauer was restless. Her husband suggested she write a book about horses.
        She had had no college education, but decided to start at the beginning. By bringing her keen intelligence and considerable horse sense to archaeological discoveries, she would write about when and how horses and men got together. Her first article, ''The Function of the Yoke Saddle in Ancient Harnessing,'' appeared in the British journal Antiquity in 1968.
        The same year, Mrs. Littauer was introduced to Joost Crouwel, who had just earned a degree in classical archaeology from the University of Amsterdam and was beginning his doctoral thesis on Mycenaean chariots. A collaboration of three decades began.
        Dr. Crouwel became professor of Aegean archaeology at the University of Amsterdam. Mrs. Littauer gained fame as the Grande Dame of the study of horses.
        The two wrote about 65 articles for academic journals, usually with each other though sometimes with other scholars and sometimes individually. A typical title: ''The Earliest Evidence for Metal Bridle Parts.''
        They wrote two books, ''Wheeled Vehicles and Ridden Animals in the Ancient Near East'' (1970) and ''Chariots and Related Equipment from the Tomb of Tutankhamen'' (1985). Both became standard reference works.
        ''They have set international standards that will last for many years,'' said Peter Raulvig, an archaeologist and linguist who also studied chariots.
        In 2002, Mrs. Littauer and Dr. Crouwel published a collection titled ''Selected Writing on Chariots and Other Early Vehicles, Riding and Harness.''
        An example of Mrs. Littauer's analysis was her article in 1983 in La Recherche, a French counterpart of Scientific American, in which she rejected earlier assertions that the first wheels were used on two-wheeled carts. Instead, she argued, the first real wheel was on a crude four-wheel vehicle. She theorized that soft sands in the Middle East would have made a two-wheeled precursor of the chariot impractical, and pointed to the four-wheeled carriages discovered by Sir Leonard Woolley in the so-called King's Tomb in Ur, a Sumerian city that flourished in Lower Mesopotamia (now Iraq) about 4,500 years ago.
        But she disputed Sir Leonard's contention that the vehicles were the ''tanks'' of antiquity. The reason was that the harness used was highly vulnerable to projectiles, not to mention the vehicle's occupants, The New York Times reported in 1983.
        Her ability to interpret evidence found by others became legendary. She once pointed out that an ancient horse's bit displayed in the British Museum was upside down. Embarrassed curators corrected the error.
        Mary Aiken Graver was born in Pittsburgh on Feb. 11, 1912, and grew up in Manhattan. Her formal education ended when she graduated from what is now the Spence School. Her interest in horses dates from her ownership of a cow pony in Nevada, where her family vacationed.
        As a young woman, she was a volunteer courier in the Frontier Nursing Service, which provided health care in rural Kentucky. For young society women, the chance to ride horses for many miles over roadless, mountainous terrain in a good cause was grand adventure. She was once caught in the middle of a shooting battle between feuding families.
        Mr. Littauer founded a riding academy called the Boots and Saddles Club, and also taught private clients at the family's Long Island home before his death in 1989, at 96. In addition to their son, of Princeton, N.J., Mrs. Littauer is survived by two grandsons.
        Already fluent in French, Mrs. Littauer taught herself ancient Greek, German and Russian. Scholars sent her their research results, commentaries and papers to edit.
        Mary B. Moore, an art historian at Hunter College specializing in ancient Greece, said that Mrs. Littauer advised colleagues on how an ancient bit or bridle was probably used, or on where the driver would have stood on a chariot. Dr. Moore said those suggestions were utterly practical, and seldom theoretical or aesthetic.
        She said that Mrs. Littauer seldom went to archaeological digs, because of her age. ''Sitting around a ditch all day wouldn't have been one of those things she would go for.''
        She was nonetheless famously observant. In a paper on the Roman use of horses, Judith A. Walker, an archaeologist, mentioned a chariot and harness found in an ancient tomb.
        ''No one person has spent more time studying, reconstructing and analyzing this harness and chariot than Mary Littauer,'' she wrote.
        Mrs. Littauer embodied skepticism, as when what appeared to be wheels of chariots were found on the Russian steppes. In an article in The New York Times in 1994, she cautioned, ''A spoked wheel is not necessarily a chariot, only a light car on the way to becoming a chariot.''
        On rare occasions, Mrs. Littauer ventured beyond the ancient world, with an interest as modern as the horses of medieval knights.
      