
        Rodney Whitaker, a writer best known by one of his many pen names, Trevanian, who was the only writer of airport paperbacks to be compared to Zola, Ian Fleming, Poe and Chaucer, died on Wednesday in the West Country of England. He was 74.
        The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, his agent, Michael V. Carlisle, said.
        Trevanian's international best sellers, mainly thrillers, include ''The Eiger Sanction'' (1972), which was made into a film starring Clint Eastwood; ''Shibumi'' (1979); and ''The Loo Sanction'' (1973). His 10 known published books sold more than 5 million copies and were translated into at least 14 languages.
        Mr. Whitaker once said he wrote books under at least five pseudonyms, including Trevanian. Mr. Whitaker was chairman of the radio, television and film department at the University of Texas when he wrote his first two books as smart little spoofs of James Bond. But even then it was an open question whether he was being playful with a genre or expanding its limits.
        Under his own name, Mr. Whitaker wrote ''The Language of Film'' (1970). Under the name Nicholas Seare, he wrote ''1339 . . . or So: Being an Apology for a Peddler'' (1975), a medieval tale, and ''Rude Tales and Glorious: The Account of Diverse Feats of Brawn and Bawd Performed by King Arthur and His Knights of the Table Round'' (1983).
        ''I write under five different names on several subjects -- theology, law, aesthetics, film -- and want to keep my readerships separate,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times in 1979, which may have been his first.
        Although the entry in ''Who's Who'' for Trevanian says that person was born in Tokyo on Jan. 12, 1925, other sources say Mr. Whitaker himself was born on June 12, 1931, a date that would conform with his age of 74.
        In an e-mail interview with The Hartford Courant this June, he discussed his last book, ''The Crazyladies of Pearl Street,'' published earlier this year. He said he spent two two-week sessions with a man who grew up in the slums near Albany, where the novel is set, to get information. But in publicity material from the book's publishers, he admitted the book was essentially his own autobiography.
        Mr. Whitaker told The Times Union, an Albany newspaper, that he had published novels under the pen names Benat LeCagot and Edoard Moran. He said his wife chose the name Trevanian after reading the historian G. M. Trevelyan.
        Adding mightily, but momentarily, to the confusion, a Washington bureaucrat, James T. Hashian, in 1984 told The Times he was the first owner of the pen name Trevanian, although he spelled it Travanian. Mr. Hashian told The Times he had sold the name to another writer.
        In 1998, a reporter for The Austin American Statesman examined University of Texas records on Mr. Whitaker. He reported that Trevanian earned his doctorate in communications and film from Northwestern University, had been chairman of the communications division at Dana College in Blair, Neb., and served in the Navy during the Korean War. He later won a Fulbright scholarship to study in England.
        Mr. Whitaker's books were generally very well reviewed. The St. James Guide to Crime & Mystery Writers said ''The Eiger Sanction'' was ''more intelligent, witty and stylish'' than the Ian Fleming novels they subtly parodied. After John Leonard in The Times called ''Shibumi'' quite silly, he hastened to add, ''It just happens to be the most agreeable nonsense in commercial fiction this spring.''
        Mr. Whitaker lived much of his life in a little Basque village on the French side of the Pyrenees and used it as a setting in his writing.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Diane Brandon; his sons Lance and Christian, and his daughters Alexandra and Tomasin.
        In 1979, Mr. Whitaker told The Times he wanted to put Trevanian out of business and ''write erudite little novels for special audiences.'' For legal reasons that he mentioned many times and never explained, he could not shed the pseudonym. As for little novels, his next book, ''The Summer of Katya'' (1983) became a best seller.
        Mr. Carlisle pointed out that between that book and the next, ''Incident at Twenty-Mile'' (1998), some 15 years passed. During that time, Mr. Whitaker wrote extensively, and some of that work will be published posthumously under the name Trevanian.
        For all his reluctance to diminish the mystery surrounding him, Mr. Whitaker emphatically put to rest a recurrent rumor that Trevanian was really the writer Robert Ludlum.
        ''I don't even know who he is,'' he told The Times in 1979. ''I read Proust, but not much else written in the 20th century.''
      