
        Marvin A. Schwam, who made it a year-round business to prepare for Christmas -- and Hanukkah and Kwanzaa -- as the founder of American Christmas Decorations Inc., died on Dec. 10 at his home in the Chelsea neighborhood in Manhattan. He was 63.
        The cause was bladder cancer, said his son Frederic, who succeeded him as the company's owner and president.
        The elder Mr. Schwam, who started as a designer and decorator, founded his company in 1968 and built it into one of the country's biggest suppliers of holiday displays of all kinds. With headquarters in the Bronx, it has designed, made and installed what decks the halls and walls at places like Radio City Music Hall and Saks Fifth Avenue.
        It delivers elaborately dressed trees, ranging in size from modest to huge, along with wreaths, garlands, menorahs, poinsettias, animated figures and lights, and puts them up in hotel and apartment house lobbies, department stores, malls and theaters, and film and television studios. It lists Bloomingdale's and Lord & Taylor among its notable clients.
        Under Mr. Schwam, the company began to operate through the calendar year, its staff of designers, elves and installers waxing and waning with the season.
        Marvin Albert Schwam was born in Newark and received a bachelor's a degree in fine arts from Cooper Union in 1964. He worked as a staff artist and floral designer before he founded American Christmas Decorations, as well as M. Schwam Floralart, a sister company, in 1968.
        After handing over the business to his son in 1988, Mr. Schwam started Gay Entertainment Television, an early effort on cable to create a national network aimed at gay viewers. From the mid-1990's until his illness, he was a principal in a gallery combined with a ceramics and pottery school in Chelsea, Forma Studio Gallery and the Union Square Ceramics Center.
        Mr. Schwam's marriage to Jeanette Fein ended in divorce. In addition to his son Frederic, of Armonk, N.Y., he is survived by another son, Matthew N., of Manhattan; a brother, Melvin, of Syosset, N.Y.; two grandchildren; and his companion, Brad Lamm of Manhattan.
      