
        Constance Keene, a pianist and teacher whose recordings of the Romantic keyboard repertory were highly regarded, died on Dec. 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 84, and lived in Manhattan.
        Her death was announced by Debra Kinzler, the spokeswoman for the Manhattan School of Music, where Ms. Keene has taught since 1969. She also joined the school's board of trustees in 1997.
        Ms. Keene maintained a fairly low-key performing career in recent years, but her influence as a teacher and occasional writer on keyboard topics for Clavier magazine was considerable. She was a juror at several major competitions, and in addition to her work at the Manhattan School, she gave master classes in Europe, Asia and South Africa.
        Early in Ms. Keene's career, her playing was praised by Artur Rubinstein, who said that her recording of the Rachmaninoff Preludes left him ''completely flabbergasted by the fantastic sweep, color, tone and last but not least, by the incredible technique.'' When Rubinstein decided that his children were old enough to take piano lessons, he hired Ms. Keene as their teacher.
        Ms. Keene was born in Brooklyn on Feb. 9, 1921, and began to play the piano when she was 4. She completed high school when she was 15 and never attended college or a conservatory. But in 1934, when she was 13, she became a student of Abram Chasins, the pianist, composer, writer and broadcaster. She and Chasins married in 1949, and performed and recorded together as a duo-piano team. Chasins died in 1987. Ms. Keene later married Milton Kean, who survives her.
        In addition to her duet performances with Chasins, Ms. Keene pursued a solo career that was given a boost by her victory at the Naumburg Competition in 1943. She then spent the remaining years of World War II touring Army installations for the U.S.O. At one camp, in Mississippi, she played eight concerts in three days for 65,000 soldiers.
        She undertook her first professional tour in 1945, and made headlines in 1946 when she substituted for Vladimir Horowitz at a recital for an audience of 4,000. In the several years that followed, she performed with the New York Philharmonic and the Philadelphia Orchestra, and toured with Benny Goodman, as the soloist in Gershwin's ''Rhapsody in Blue.''
        Her recordings included works of Bach, Handel, Griffes, MacDowell, Schumann, Beethoven, Rachmaninoff and Chasins, as well as widely praised recent discs devoted to the complete sontatas of Hummel and Weber.
      