
        Alan Shields, whose radiantly colored, sewing-machine stitched, three-dimensional paintings made him prominent in the New York art world of the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his home on Shelter Island, New York. He was 61.
        Mr. Shields was being treated for emphysema and died in his sleep, said Marla Gagnum, his companion.
        A tall, athletic man with a pierced ear, shaved head and full beard, Mr. Shields simultaneously resembled a harpooner out of Melville and a hippie from central casting. He burst on the scene in 1969, with a show at the Paula Cooper Gallery in SoHo, with a style of counterculture modernism that became so popular its sales supported the gallery for several years. By 1973, his work had appeared on the cover of Artforum and been acquired by numerous major museums in New York and across the country.
        Mr. Shields's work combined expanses of gorgeous stained color, reminiscent of Helen Frankenthaler's canvases, with the humbler crafts and a Gypsy sense of portability. Mr. Shields was a Post-Minimalist, but his work had a joyful quality at odds with his many of his more cerebral contemporaries.
        His unstretched textilelike paintings conjured up tribal non-Western cultures and undermined notions of painterly machismo. They could resemble pliant mandalas or sky maps with stitching and beads for constellations, be elegantly tie-dyed structures reminiscent of small tents, hanging labyrinths, or simple strands of beads or strips of canvas.
        Mr. Shields was, as the critic Robert Hughes wrote, a brilliant bricoleur who could, and often did, make art out of just about anything. In the early 1990's, when his teenage daughter asked him to stop painting his fingernails, he started painting wood beads and making necklaces. He collaborated on handmade books, excelled at watercolor (usually two-sided, often woven) and became an innovative printmaker, experimenting with handmade paper and turning out editions in which each print was unique. Recently, he had become interested in animation.
        Born on Feb. 4, 1944, in Herington, Kan., Mr. Shields grew up on his family's farm doing chores, learning to sew from his mother and two sisters and assimilating a strong work ethic and penchant for tinkering. He studied engineering, then theater and finally art at Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kan., and by the time he left (without a degree), was making three-dimensional paintings with a sewing machine. He had seen very little contemporary art firsthand.
        Although it was linked to Pattern and Decoration in the late 1970's, Mr. Shields's his work dropped from view in the onslaught of appropriation art and Neo-Expressionism in the 1980's. Nonetheless, his work is a forerunner to a host of younger artists using bricolage, craft, strong color and non-Western references, among them Jessica Stockholder, Jim Lambie, Jim Drain, Xenobia Bailey and John Bock.
        In addition to Ms. Gagnum, he is survived by his the children of his first marriage, his daughter, Victoria Shields Westlek, and his son, Jason Shields, both of Shelter Island; his mother, Arvis Shields, of Kansas City, Mo., and two sisters, Dorothy Dyer, of Kansas City, and Rosemary Deen, of Shawnee, Kan.
        Correction:  December 22, 2005, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Alan Shields, an artist known for radiantly colored three-dimensional paintings, misstated the date of his death. It was Dec. 13, not Dec. 20.
      