
        James Ingo Freed, an architect and partner of I. M. Pei, whose own buildings ranged from the provocatively somber United States Holocaust Memorial Museum to the sprawling crystal palace of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, died Thursday at his home on Gramercy Park in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said George H. Miller, a partner in the firm Pei Cobb Freed & Partners.
        Most recently, Mr. Freed had been working on the United States Air Force Memorial in Arlington, Va., now under construction, with three stainless-steel spires more than 200 feet high, its diverging arcs recalling the contrails of Air Force Thunderbirds.
        There really is no such thing as a Freed building. Though greatly respected in the profession, Mr. Freed was not as widely known as Mr. Pei, who was often credited in the press for the work of both Mr. Freed and Henry N. Cobb, a founding partner of the firm.
        Moreover, like his partners, Mr. Freed took a singular approach to each project. The ethereal Air Force memorial is as distinct in style from the brooding Holocaust museum as these memorials are from the intricately faceted Javits Center, which differs, in turn, from the Beaux-Arts solidity of the San Francisco Main Public Library.
        ''Space is the thing that matters,'' Mr. Freed said in a 1997 interview with Betty J. Blum as part of an oral history project in architecture by the Art Institute of Chicago. ''The ability to see space is like the ability, in a way, to hear music.''
        Mr. Pei said yesterday that the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington was Mr. Freed's principal legacy. ''He felt it,'' Mr. Pei said. ''He participated in it. He remembered his boyhood. Who else was better qualified to do it than Jim?''
        Born on June 23, 1930, in Essen, Germany, Mr. Freed watched the rise of Nazism firsthand as a boy, recalling later in life that he might even have witnessed the burning of a synagogue. At the age of 91/2, he was taken to the United States and settled in Chicago, where he had family.
        Known to friends as Ingo, Mr. Freed is survived by a daughter, Dara Freed of New York, and a grandson. His wife, the artist Hermine Freed, died in 1998.
        Mr. Freed received a bachelor's degree in architecture in 1953 from the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago, which was then under the direction of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. Mr. Freed worked briefly in the 1950's for George Danforth and A. James Speyer and then for Mies on the Seagram Building in Manhattan.
        Impressed by Mr. Freed's experience with housing, Mr. Pei brought him into his office in 1956. As an associate, Mr. Freed had projects including the Kips Bay Plaza housing complex of 1963, between First and Second Avenues in the 30's, and the University Plaza towers of 1967, on Bleecker Street and LaGuardia Place in Greenwich Village.
        The 88 Pine Street office tower of 1973, a crisp grid of pristine white cladding framing broad windows, most clearly revealed Mies's influence on Mr. Freed. (Pei Cobb Freed moved into the building in 2000.)
        Terence Riley, the chief curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art, said yesterday, ''88 Pine Street and University Plaza are two of the most refined examples of modern design in all of Manhattan.''
        Mr. Freed returned to the Illinois Institute of Technology from 1975 to 1978 as dean of architecture. At that time, he was also part of a group of architects known as the Chicago Seven, who challenged the prevalent Miesian orthodoxy.
        His largest mark on New York was the Javits Center, in the 30's between 11th and 12th Avenues, which staggered through political and construction troubles to open in 1986.
        Not a windowless box like so many other exhibition halls, the Javits Center was covered in glass on an intricate framework of tubes and nodes. Its luminous 150-foot-high crossing struck Paul Goldberger, then the architecture critic of The New York Times, as ''an airplane hangar in which one felt moved to hear chamber music.''
        ''This great, glass-enclosed public space embraces a wonderful contradiction: it seems to call at once for a Boeing 747 and for a string quartet,'' Mr. Goldberger wrote.
        In the monograph ''I. M. Pei'' (Harry N. Abrams, 1990), Carter Wiseman said, ''Freed now had achieved a level of public recognition that had long been lacking,'' one result of which was the commission to design the Holocaust Memorial Museum.
        To prepare for this task, Mr. Freed immersed himself in the sites and images of the Holocaust, the observation towers and the ovens of the concentration camps.
        Rather than reproduce these forms literally, Mr. Freed ''absorbed them, tracing their contours as if he could distill their meaning in a ritual of recollection,'' wrote Herbert Muschamp, The Times's architecture critic in 1993, when the museum opened.
        Mr. Muschamp continued: ''Images of confinement, observation, atrocity and denial surface and recede within the building's hard industrial forms: expanses of brick wall bolted with steel, floating glass bridges engraved with the names of devastated cities, lead pyramids clustered into sentry-box rooflines. A memorial in form as well as function, the museum is a place quarried from the memory of other places.''
        ''Even those who have studied the published drawings of Mr. Freed's design may find themselves unprepared for the shattering impact of the finished work,'' he wrote.
        Five years later, however, Mr. Muschamp expressed disappointment with the enormous and vaguely neo-Classical Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, which he called ''an overwhelming monument to compromise.''
        Though Mr. Freed said he did not want to be remembered only as the architect of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, he acknowledged it as the greatest opportunity of his career and the most moving experience of his life. It reconnected him with his Jewish roots, which his family had truncated after their flight from Nazi Germany.
        He was made uneasy, however, when people told him they liked the building.
        ''I can't say, 'Oh, well, I thank you and I'm glad you like it,' '' he told Ms. Blum, of the architecture oral history project, in 1997. ''You don't like things like that. You're not supposed to like things like that. So I say: 'Oh, yes, you did see it? Too bad for you, it was such an awful experience.' ''
      