
        The emir of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, a low-key ruler who helped guide his people through the long days when Iraqi's military occupied, looted and ransacked their small, oil-rich nation, died Sunday morning after a long illness, the Kuwaiti royal court announced. He was 79.
        In a region where heads of state tend to live extravagantly, residing in multiple palaces and traveling with entourages, Sheik Jaber stood out for his modest style. He declined to put his own image on the nation's currency, lived in what Kuwaitis considered a relatively simple home and on Sunday was buried in an unmarked grave.
        It was, to a large degree, his personal style that seemed to touch the people of his country, and so they often referred to him as Baba Jaber, or Father Jaber. Thousands of people turned out for his funeral, and the outpouring of grief seemed to cut across all ages.
        But if it was his humanity that grabbed his people, it was his strategic thinking that cemented his legacy: the very survival of Kuwait as an independent nation. His decisions to set aside billions dollars of Kuwait's vast oil revenues, and accept a strategic relationship with the United States -- moves not always embraced by those around him -- are widely credited with helping preserve Kuwait's independence.
        While serving as a finance minister before becoming head of state 28 years ago, Sheik Jaber saw to it that Kuwait set up a future fund, which grew to about $120 billion at the time Iraq invaded in 1990.
        The money sustained his government in exile, financed the forces that routed the Iraqi occupiers and then served as seed money to begin to rebuild the nation, which had been ransacked, its oil wells set ablaze.
        ''People are sad, and I didn't expect to be that sad,'' said Ghanim al-Najjar, a professor of political science at Kuwait University. ''I felt sad in some way on the personal side. He commanded very good affection among people, definitely the younger generation.''
        If there were two defining moments in Sheik Jaber's time as emir, they were an assassination attempt in 1985 and the 1990 invasion of Iraq. Both caused him to turn inward and to be more cautious. In recent years ill health had kept him even more out of the public eye.
        The assassination attempt by a Shiite Muslim militant came during the region's tumultuous 1980's, when Iran was intent on spreading its revolution and the Iran-Iraq war threatened the stability of the Persian Gulf states. But if the assassination attempt inspired him to rule with more of an iron fist, the invasion by Saddam Hussein's forces seemed to have the opposite effect.
        He established a government in exile in Saudi Arabia, then was able to return to his country in 1992. From that point on, political analysts said, he seemed far more respectful of the independence of Parliament and on at least two occasions allowed it to overrule his decrees. One of those was his effort to allow women to vote. That measure was finally approved in 2005.
        ''There were some positive changes, especially after the Iraqi invasion,'' Professor Najjar said. ''Two things that happened were remarkable. Twice he returned laws to the Parliament and they voted against his will. He didn't show any resentment.''
        Sheik Jaber's decades in power were not free of problems. Some critics suggested that Kuwait's government and military should have been able to do a better job of preventing the Iraqi invasion.
        He also dissolved Parliament in 1986, charging that its debate had descended into anarchy, and there have been charges of corruption within the ruling family. Perhaps the greatest problem with Sheik Jaber's tenure was that he left behind a sense of unease and a degree of uncertainty over who would rule his country now and into the future.
        Sheik Jaber married many times, and it is unclear exactly how many children he left behind.
        Muhammad al-Rumaihi, a sociology professor at Kuwait University, said the emir was viewed as a father of all Kuwaitis. ''We have lost today the last father, if you like, of Kuwait,'' he said.
      