
        Gideon A. Rodan, a biomedical researcher who studied the destruction and formation of bone cells in important work used to develop treatments for osteoporosis and bone loss, died Jan. 1 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Rodan (pronounced roe-DAN) studied the relationship between the cells that form bones, called osteoblasts, and the cells responsible for removing calcium from bones, known as osteoclasts. He helped to isolate and describe both types, and he and others found that the strength of bones depended on a careful balance between the two.
        In the 1990's, Dr. Rodan, while executive director of the department of bone biology and osteoporosis research at Merck Research Laboratories, helped formulate a compound, Fosamax, that hinders osteoclasts and helps prevent bones from becoming brittle.
        The Food and Drug Administration approved the compound in 1995, and it is frequently prescribed for postmenopausal women experiencing bone loss that is caused by a natural decline in the production of estrogen.
        In related work, Dr. Rodan examined the function of steroids in bone metabolism and the way bone cells respond to hormones. He found that medications that inhibit osteoclasts could also be useful in treating bone inflammation associated with arthritis, periodontal disease and Paget's disease, a degenerative disorder that softens bones.
        Gideon Alfred Rodan was born in Bucharest, Romania. He received a medical degree from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and his Ph.D. from the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel.
        From 1970 to 1985, he taught at the University of Connecticut School of Dental Medicine, where he led the department of oral biology. He then joined Merck, and retired in 2003.
        In 1987, he was named president of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. From 2001 to 2003, he was president of the International Bone and Mineral Society. He was an editor of a textbook, ''Principles of Bone Biology'' (1996).
        Dr. Rodan is survived by his wife of 34 years, Sevgi, a biochemist and former researcher at Merck; a daughter, Aylin Rodan of San Francisco; and a son, Elan, of Fairfax, Va.
      