
        James Bastien, a pianist and educator whose instructional books have been used for more than four decades by millions of eager, and some not-so-eager, piano pupils worldwide, died on Dec. 7 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 71 and lived in La Jolla.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Jane Smisor Bastien.
        With his wife, also a pianist, Mr. Bastien wrote more than 300 books of piano repertory and technique. Published in several series, among them Bastien Piano Library, Bastien Piano Basics and Music Through the Piano, the books include ''Piano for the Young Beginner,'' ''Theory & Technic for the Young Beginner'' and ''Musicianship for the Older Beginner.''
        The Bastiens' publisher, the Neil A. Kjos Music Company in San Diego, does not make sales figures public, but a company spokesman said the couple's books had sold in the millions of copies and been translated into 15 languages since the first one appeared in 1963.
        A hallmark of the Bastiens' method is that it refrains from teaching musical notation, the bane of many beginners, right away. Instead, students learn to play simple tunes by placing their hands on designated keys and following a set of numbered finger patterns. (The opening of ''Peer Gynt,'' for example: 5-3-2-1-2-3, 5-3-2-1.) Only after several months do the authors initiate students into the mysteries of the musical staff.
        James William Bastien was born in Bellingham, Wash., on April 10, 1934. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Southern Methodist University; his teachers included the eminent Hungarian pianist Gyorgy Sandor, who also died last month.
        Mr. Bastien married Jane Smisor in 1961. They had met a few months earlier, over Prokofiev's Seventh Sonata, and were soon performing as a duo-piano team.
        Mr. Bastien held faculty positions at Notre Dame, Tulane University and Loyola University in New Orleans. He also taught in summer programs at Tanglewood and at the National Music Camp (now Interlochen Arts Camp) in Interlochen, Mich.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Bastien is survived by the couple's two daughters, Lisa Bastien Hanss of Manhattan, and Lori Bastien Vickers of La Jolla, both piano teachers who have collaborated with their mother on many recent books; and by four grandchildren.
      