
        Ibrahim Rugova, the leader of the United Nations-administered Serbian province of Kosovo, died Saturday. He was 61.
        The cause was lung cancer, a statement issued by the presidency said Saturday.
        Mr. Rugova encompassed the hopes of nearly two million Kosovo Albanians in their drive for independence from Serbia. His academic appearance and resolute pacifism in the face of severe repression and human rights abuses by Serbian security forces in the region made him a near legendary figure among his followers. But he was also widely criticized by ethnic Albanians who felt that pacifism was not the route to independence.
        Talks on the future of Kosovo are scheduled to begin in earnest next month and are widely expected to lead to some form of independent state, but his stewardship has been seen as weak and has raised doubts among international supporters about Kosovo's ability to govern itself.
        Mr. Rugova emerged in the late 1980's as the unlikely figure to lead Kosovo's Albanian population as the Serbian leader of that era, Slobodan Milosevic, imposed difficult conditions on Kosovo, using it as the motor for a virulent nationalist revival.
        In 1989, Mr. Rugova, then the president of the Kosovo Writers Club, was elected at an informal meeting to be leader of the newly created Democratic League of Kosovo. He was among the first Kosovo Albanians to speak out, demanding both democracy and self-determination for the province, said Blerim Shala, one of the founding members of the league and now editor of the Kosovo Albanian daily Zeri. Until then, Albanian nationalism in Kosovo had been Marxist and focused on unification with Albania. ''He was a father of the nation,'' Mr. Shala said.
        Instantly recognizable by the scarves he wore, his glasses and often a timid smile, he did not have the appearance of a great statesman. Visitors to his Pristina apartment could always expect to leave with a rock in their hands, part of his extensive mineral collection. But his message was consistent, said Bernard Kouchner, the first chief of the United Nations mission in Kosovo, who first met Mr. Rugova in 1991.
        ''He was always calm, never shouting,'' Dr. Kouchner said.
        Born in the village of Cerrce, Mr. Rugova was quickly exposed to the fratricidal politics of the region as his father and grandfather, who had fought with German troops during World War II, were executed by partisans soon after his birth. As a promising student, he was able to advance in Communist Yugoslavia and was able to study French literature at the Sorbonne. By the mid-1980's he had become professor of Albanian literature at the recently established University of Pristina, in Kosovo's regional capital.
        After he became involved in politics, his dogged determination to demand independence, but without the use of force, won him international respect. After ethnic Albanians were fired by Kosovo's institutions in 1991, the Democratic League established a parallel state, providing education and health services to Albanians, financed largely by donations from the Albanian diaspora in Europe and the United States.
        However, after the war in nearby Bosnia ended in 1995, some Kosovo Albanians began to question his nonviolent stance, contending that the world would remain deaf to their demands until conflict broke out in the province.
        The rebel force called the Kosovo Liberation Army emerged in 1997, leading Serbian security forces to retaliate against ethnic Albanian civilians, and finally prompting NATO to intervene in March 1999. A two-and-a-half-month bombing campaign forced the Serbs to withdraw their troops and to leave administration of affairs in Kosovo to the United Nations.
        The possible low point of Mr. Rugova's career was his appearance on television alongside Mr. Milosevic during the bombing campaign. His supporters maintained that he was abducted and forced to meet the Yugoslav leader, but the episode caused bitterness toward him.
        By the elections in late 2000, however, he had emerged once again as a symbol of stability as his party won more than 53 percent of the vote in local elections, well ahead of the political parties formed by the former leaders of the Kosovo Liberation Army. In 2002 he was appointed president, and his party led in parliamentary elections.
        But as inter-ethnic violence returned to Kosovo soon after the end of the war, the international sympathy that Kosovo Albanians had won diminished. Neither moderate politicians like Mr. Rugova nor the United Nations administrators seemed to be able to prevent attacks by hard-line Albanians on Kosovo's Serbian minority. Mr. Rugova was also criticized as appearing distant from everyday government affairs.
        Mr. Shala said Mr. Rugova was unable to galvanize the support among Kosovo's intensely patriarchal society and make Kosovo's new government a responsible authority that other nations could trust. ''He was the chairman of a big family,'' said Mr. Shala, where decision making was extremely slow. ''We failed. We were victims of the war, and afterward we were waiting for the international community to do the job.''
      