
        Enrico Di Giuseppe, an American tenor who sang for many years with both the New York City and Metropolitan Operas, died on Dec. 31 in Voorhees, N.J. He was 73.
        The cause was small cell cancer, said his wife, Lorna.
        With his light and ringing voice and a notable upper extension, Mr. Di Giuseppe specialized in the entire spectrum of the Italian repertory, from the light -- Alfredo in ''La Traviata'' -- to heavier fare like Turiddu in ''Cavalleria Rusticana.''
        At City Opera, he partnered Beverly Sills in some of her most famous bel canto roles, including Donizetti's ''Anna Bolena,'' ''Maria Stuarda'' and ''Roberto Devereux,'' as well as Bellini's ''Puritani''; he also recorded ''Norma'' with her. At the Met, he performed everything from Almaviva in ''The Barber of Seville'' (with Marilyn Horne) to Massenet's Werther (with Christa Ludwig) to Turiddu (with Martina Arroyo).
        Enrico Di Giuseppe was born on Oct. 14, 1932, to Italian parents in Philadelphia. His first musical experience was with the clarinet, which he played in the school band; but he then gained entrance to the prestigious Curtis Institute, where he studied with Richard Bonelli, himself a former Met singer. After a period of service with the United States Army Field Band, he went on to study at Juilliard with Hans Heinz.
        Among his early professional opportunities were stints touring with Boris Goldovsky's company and with the fledgling, and short-lived, Metropolitan Opera National Company. It was there he met his wife, the soprano Lorna Ceniceros. In addition to her, he is survived by a son, Enrico , of Tallahassee, Fla.; and a brother, John, of Runnemede, N.J.
        In 1965, he made his City Opera debut as Michele in Menotti's ''Saint of Bleecker Street'' and rapidly became a company member in good standing, performing 26 roles there over 16 years. His Metropolitan Opera house debut took place on Jan. 1, 1970, opposite Ms. Arroyo in ''Madama Butterfly.'' His subsequent appearances there included a couple of turns as Tonio opposite Joan Sutherland in the famous 1972 run of ''The Daughter of the Regiment,'' most of which was sung by Luciano Pavarotti. Unlike Mr. Pavarotti, Mr. Di Giuseppe was considerably shorter than Ms. Sutherland, who played up the humor by giving him a pat on the head before their embrace.
        By the 1980's, Mr. Di Giuseppe was no longer appearing with either City Opera or the Met; he made his final Met appearance in 1986. In the following years, he regularly performed with the New York Grand Opera, often in the noted cycle of the complete Verdi operas that company staged in Central Park.
        While some American singers have been known to Italianize their names, Mr. Di Giuseppe's name was his birthright.
        ''I am not Henry Joseph,'' he told an interviewer in 1973. ''My parents were from Italy, and I am me!''
      