
        Bradford Cannon, a Boston physician and pioneer in reconstructive plastic surgery who applied path-breaking medical techniques to advance skin grafting, especially in cases involving serious burns, died on Dec. 20 at his daughter's home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 98.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Cannon, who was a former chief of plastic and reconstructive surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital, experimented with new therapies to heal severe burns, garnering widespread attention early in his career.
        In 1942, he and others at Massachusetts General treated victims rescued from the Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston, a disaster that eventually killed 492 of the nearly 1,000 people in the nightclub. The badly burned were sent to Dr. Cannon and others, who applied sterile dressings and pressure bandages to stabilize the open wounds.
        Dr. Cannon's team discarded the accepted approach of using dyes and tannic acid as the primary treatment for burned areas. Instead, the members cut out the most heavily damaged skin and used grafts -- sheets of skin -- to cover relatively large wounds.
        They published their results in The Annals of Surgery in 1943, and the Cocoanut Grove fire became an acclaimed case study for successfully treating large numbers of burn victims. Dr. Cannon stayed in contact with many of the fire's survivors for decades.
        Dr. Joseph E. Murray, a transplant and plastic surgeon who shared the Nobel Prize for Medicine or Physiology in 1990, called Dr. Cannon ''a superb surgeon, meticulous and careful, who learned how to preserve bits of a patient's epithelium,'' which then could regenerate the skin ultimately to close a wound.
        Dr. Murray added, ''Brad Cannon's work revolutionized our care of burns.''
        From 1943 to 1947, Dr. Cannon went on to apply the lessons of Cocoanut Grove to treat thousands of soldiers disfigured by burns or shellfire and served as chief of plastic surgery at Valley Forge General Hospital in Pennsylvania, with Dr. Murray and other military surgeons.
        Dr. Cannon also studied techniques of skin harvesting and helped establish a clinic dedicated to pediatric plastic surgery at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. In the 1950's, he became a consultant to the Atomic Energy Commission and investigated the health effects of weapons tests and radioactive fallout in the Marshall Islands.
        Bradford Cannon was born in Cambridge and received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Harvard.
        He was the son of Walter Bradford Cannon, a Harvard physiologist who studied the body's response to stress and traumatic shock, and wrote authoritatively on neurology. After training at Washington University in St. Louis, Bradford Cannon joined Massachusetts General in 1940, and helped create the first residency in plastic surgery there. He retired in 1973.
        Dr. Cannon was named president of the American Association of Plastic Surgeons in 1957. He was a former president of the New England Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery.
        Dr. Cannon's wife, the former Ellen DeNormandie, died in 2003. The couple were longtime residents of Lincoln and Franklin, N.H.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sarah Cannon Holden of Lincoln; three sons, Dr. Walter B. Cannon, a thoracic surgeon, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Dr. Woodward Cannon, a general surgeon, of Raleigh, N.C.; and R. Laurent Cannon, of Centennial, Colo.; a sister, Marian Cannon Schlesinger of Cambridge; 14 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
      