
        Sidney E. Frank, who was forced to leave Brown University as a freshman when his money ran out, went on to concoct spectacularly successful marketing campaigns for Jägermeister liqueur and Grey Goose vodka, then became so rich he gave Brown its biggest gift ever, died Tuesday in San Diego. He was 86.
        His death was announced by the Sidney Frank Importing Company.
        After Mr. Frank sold Grey Goose to Bacardi for an estimated $2.3 billion in 2004, he liked to call himself ''the $2 billion man'' and told BusinessWeek that he planned to become ''the $10 billion man.''
        He died well short of his goal, but this deprivation hardly sabotaged his lifestyle. He owned six palatial homes, traveled with four chefs and, when he could no longer play golf, hired a team of professionals to play just for him; he instructed them on which clubs to use.
        His generosity was similarly outsize: a $23.8 million bonus for his secretary, $100 million in scholarships and $20 million for a building for Brown, among other gifts. After he saw ''Escape From Sobibor,'' a film from 1987 based on the revolt in 1943 of Jewish prisoners at a Polish death camp, he tracked down nine survivors and sent them checks of $11,000 each.
        The ebullient Mr. Frank was known for audacious sales techniques, including employing a squadron of pretty young women, called Jägerettes, to patrol bars and promote Jägermeister. Sales increased from 600 cases a month in 1974, when Mr. Frank started selling it, to more than two million cases last year.
        Grey Goose's success was also stellar, but involved a different technique from Jägermeister's, which rarely advertised. Mr. Frank plowed his entire first year's profit from Grey Goose, $3 million, into ads.
        The idea was to build an elegant image, beginning with a price about $10 a bottle more than the market leader, Absolut. He gave Grey Goose away at charity events and deposited bottles in limousines used for the Academy Awards ceremony. It became the best-selling premium vodka in the country.
        Sidney Edward Frank was born on Oct. 2, 1919, in Montville, Conn., where his father and mother raised chickens and grew vegetables. He graduated from the Norwich Free Academy, which was not free; his tuition was paid by the town, which had no high school. Two years ago, Mr. Frank gave the school $12 million.
        At 12, he started as an entrepreneur by making a ladder to climb Mohegan Rock, a tourist attraction. He charged a dime to climbers.
        He earned mostly A's in high school and planned on paying for college with earnings from Mohegan Rock and odd jobs. When he applied to Brown, he was told his chances were borderline. His firm handshake finally persuaded the dean of admissions to accept him, he was told.
        Once there, he was assigned a room next to that of another freshman, Edward Sarnoff, a son of David Sarnoff, the founder of the National Broadcasting Company. Mr. Sarnoff introduced him to Louise Rosenstiel, daughter of Lewis Rosenstiel, founder of Schenley Industries, one of the nation's largest distillers. They later married.
        ''The easiest way to make a million dollars is to marry it rather than earn it,'' Mr. Frank said in an interview with The Daily Mail, a London newspaper, in 2005.
        When he ran out of tuition money, he applied for a job at Pratt & Whitney. There were many applicants, and he was told to come back in a couple of hours to demonstrate that he knew how to use a slide rule, which he did not. He bought one, pored over the directions and got the job, which involved keeping Allied planes flying in World War II.
        Not yet married to Miss Rosenstiel, he met her father, who asked him to use his engineering skills to help develop an alcohol-based motor fuel. That flopped, so Mr. Frank switched to liquor.
        After his sixth marriage proposal to Miss Rosenstiel, which she accepted, he went to work for the family's company and soon vastly increased the production of a Scotch distillery that Schenley had bought in Glasgow.
        He discovered that the distillery was still following a law limiting distillation to twice a week, a law that had been repealed. With daily production, the still, for which Schenley had paid $13 million, rang up $10 million in profit the first year, nearly recouping the cost.
        Mr. Frank soon discovered that marrying a fortune was not a foolproof tactic, as he became enmeshed in repeated familial disputes. He was fired, rehired, made president, and fired again. His father-in-law then blackballed him from the industry.
        Mr. Frank sold art for a few years, then clawed his way back, first by supplying sake to sushi restaurants. He discovered Jägermeister -- a German liqueur variously described as tasting like licorice, root beer or cough syrup -- on a stroll through Yorkville, a historically German neighborhood in Manhattan.
        Germans viewed the syrupy drink, which contained many herbs, as medicinal, but Mr. Frank saw another niche: the hard-partying college market. He said he got a big break when a newspaper in Baton Rouge, La., likened Jägermeister to Valium, even if it had no drugs.
        The party scene Mr. Frank fostered -- rife with free shots at the bar, promotions by young women and, later, male Jägerdudes -- developed a reputation for wild behavior. In 1997, a group of Jägerettes persuaded the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to sue Mr. Frank's company, charging sexual harassment. Some said they had been harassed by Mr. Frank himself.
        The company and Mr. Frank denied the charges, but paid $2.9 million as part of a settlement.
        Mr. Frank's first wife died in 1972. He is survived by his wife, Marian; his daughter, Catherine Halstead, of Seattle; his son, Matthew, of Marin County in California; his sister, Edna Nowitz, of Bridgeport, Conn.; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        In recent years, Mr. Frank was working on a travel magazine, a new Irish whiskey and an energy drink called Crunk.
        Correction:  January 27, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Jan. 12 about Sidney Frank, a liquor importer and marketing executive, referred incorrectly to a World War II death camp featured in ''Escape from Sobibor,'' a film that led Mr. Frank to give money to some of the camp's survivors. Sobibor was set up and run by the German occupiers of Poland; it was not a ''Polish death camp.''
      