
        Frank T. Cary, the chairman and chief executive of International Business Machines during the tumultuous 1970's when I.B.M. confronted antitrust lawsuits, rising competition from Japanese manufacturers and the dawn of the personal computer, died Sunday. He was 85.
        He died of unknown causes while asleep at his home in Darien, Conn., according to a son, Bryan Cary.
        Mr. Cary took over as I.B.M.'s chief executive on Jan. 1, 1973, three months after T. Vincent Learson, his 60-year-old predecessor, surprised Wall Street by establishing 60 as the mandatory retirement age for senior executives and announced plans to step aside.
        Mr. Learson was chief executive for less than two years, after a half-century in which I.B.M. had flourished under the control of Thomas J. Watson and his son, Thomas J. Watson Jr. Thus it was left largely to Mr. Cary to set the agenda for the post-Watson era.
        Litigation, especially antitrust lawsuits, was a constant threat to I.B.M. during Mr. Cary's tenure. A government antitrust action that aimed to split I.B.M. began in 1969 and dragged on until the Justice Department abruptly dropped the complaint in 1982. Many private patent and antitrust cases also plagued the company, but Mr. Cary felt strongly that I.B.M. needed to fight in court to maintain its freedom to compete effectively.
        ''He endured hundreds of days of depositions,'' said John R. Opel, who succeeded Mr. Cary in 1981 as chief executive and in 1983 as chairman.
        Mr. Cary presided over heavy investments to help make I.B.M. a more efficient manufacturer in response to Japanese imports and the rise of manufacturers like Amdahl, which sought to sell I.B.M.-compatible mainframe computers at cheaper prices. I.B.M. developed a hugely successful range of midsize computers known as the 4300 series in the mid-1970's.
        Mr. Cary also pursued a number of ventures that failed to prosper, including I.B.M.'s effort to overtake Xerox in copiers and its investments in satellite communications.
        I.B.M.'s first personal computer, which soon took market leadership away from Apple Computer, reached retail stores in August 1981, the year that Mr. Opel took over. But the product's popularity did not turn it into a long-term moneymaker for the company, and I.B.M. eventually had trouble keeping up with emerging leaders in the segment like Dell and Compaq. The business was sold to Lenovo of China last year.
        By the time Mr. Cary stepped down in 1981, I.B.M. had doubled its revenue and profit but its stock had lost its reputation for high growth.
        Frank Taylor Cary was born Dec. 14, 1920, in Gooding, Iowa, the son of Dr. Frank T. Cary and the former Ida Hayden. The family moved soon after his birth to Inglewood, Calif.
        Mr. Cary graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles with a B.S. degree in 1943 and from Stanford with an M.B.A. in 1948, the year he joined I.B.M. as a salesman in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Cary, like other young men identified as promising I.B.M. executives, moved frequently among jobs in the company. He became general manager of data processing and a vice president in 1966, moved to corporate headquarters three years later as a senior vice president and became president in 1969.
        In addition to his son Bryan, Mr. Cary is survived by his wife, the former Anne Curtis, and a son, Steven, all of Darien; a son, Marshall, of Bangor, Me.; a daughter, Laura, of Burlington, Vt.; and 12 grandchildren.
      