
        Bill Rice, an artist, actor, director and scholar, and for decades a linchpin of the now all-but-extinct cultural underground of the Lower East Side, died on Monday in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Mitchell Algus, his New York dealer. He was 74.
        Mr. Rice studied painting at Middlebury College in Vermont, his home state, in the late 1940's, and moved in 1953 to New York, where he settled in an East Third Street tenement that became his home and studio for the rest of his life.
        Although Mr. Rice always identified himself as a painter, in the 1960's and 70's he also worked in sculpture and photography and became active in experimental theater and films. He was legendary as a performer, but came to acting almost accidentally in the 1970's.
        ''On a dare, I auditioned for a play,'' he said in a 1992 interview with the critic David Hirsch. ''I got drunk, got the part and I've been working ever since.''
        In the theater and in film, Mr. Rice worked with Jim Jarmusch, Robert Frank, Allen Frame, Gary Goldberg, Taylor Mead, Jack Smith, Charles Allcroft and Jim Neu. He came out of the hospital to appear in a short piece by Mr. Neu, ''Alone Together'' last November. He collaborated with the writers Gary Indiana, Rene Ricard and David Wojnarowicz.
        In 1978, he made a notable screen debut in ''G-Man,'' a film by Scott and Beth B, as Max Karl, an F.B.I. agent with an affinity for transvestism. Other films followed, the most recent shot with Gary Indiana last year.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Rice briefly opened a gallery in his apartment, and gave shows for artists like Robert Gober and Barbara Ess.
        He began to exhibit his own paintings regularly in the 1980's. Originally an abstract artist, he later developed an expressionistic figurative style. His pictures often depicted multiethnic street life. He once described his images as ''what most other people saw out of the corner of their eye.'' The curator Richard Milazzo organized an exhibition of his work at Sidney Janis Gallery in 1996. Mr. Rice's last show was at Mitchell Algus Gallery in Chelsea last fall.
        For several years, Mr. Rice worked with the Swiss-born scholar Ulla E. Dydo on books about Gertrude Stein, ''A Stein Reader'' (1993) and ''Gertrude Stein: The Language That Rises, 1923-1934'' (2003). Earlier, he assisted Edward Burns on a volume of Stein's correspondence.
        Mr. Rice also did extensive independent research on Picasso's ''Desmoiselles d'Avignon,'' leaving some 2,000 unedited pages of typescript on the subject.
        Mr. Rice was recently described by the photographer Larry Mitchell as ''the last Bohemian,'' chronically but contentedly short of money, interested only in happenstantial fame, rarely traveling more than a few blocks from his home. He is survived by a half-brother, Edward Baumgardner, of Oneonta, N.Y.
      