
        Jack Snow, an outstanding receiver for the Los Angeles Rams for more than a decade and a longtime radio analyst for the Rams franchise, died Monday at a hospital in St. Louis. He was 62.
        The cause was complications of a staph infection, the Rams said. Snow had double hip replacement surgery last spring. The Rams' internal medicine physician, Douglas Pogue, said last week, according to The Associated Press, that the staph condition originated as a sinus infection, then entered the bloodstream and infected an artificial hip joint.
        Playing for the Rams from 1965 to 1975, Snow teamed with quarterbacks Roman Gabriel, John Hadl and James Harris in passing offenses that helped bring five division championships. He caught 340 passes for 6,012 yards and 45 touchdowns on teams that were also known for the Hall of Fame defensive players Deacon Jones, Merlin Olsen and Jack Youngblood.
        ''He was one of the few guys we had that would go across the middle and catch that football,'' Jones told The Associated Press. ''He was tough, tough as nails.
        ''Jack had the greatest hands in that time period. You won't talk about his speed, but his speed was deceiving. He would catch that slant pattern over the middle, and I've seen him outrun some guys that we thought were fast.''
        Snow was an analyst for the Rams' radio broadcasts in their final three seasons in Los Angeles and continued to work for them when they moved to St. Louis in 1995. He made his final broadcast Nov. 20, when the Rams played the Arizona Cardinals.
        He was the father of the Gold Glove first baseman J. T. Snow, who joined the Boston Red Sox last week after nine seasons with the San Francisco Giants.
        A native of Rock Springs, Wyo., Snow, 6 feet 2 inches and 210 pounds, was an all-American end at Notre Dame in 1964, finishing second in the nation in receptions, with 60, and fifth in the voting for the Heisman Trophy, won by Irish quarterback John Huarte. The Minnesota Vikings made Snow a first-round draft pick but traded him to Los Angeles soon afterward.
        In addition to J. T. Snow, he is survived by his daughters, Michelle and Stephanie. His wife, Merry, died in 1998.
        When Snow played in Los Angeles, the Rams' spectacular passing game of the late 1940's and 50's featuring quarterbacks Bob Waterfield and Norm Van Brocklin and receivers Tom Fears and Crazy Legs Hirsch was long gone. But celebrities of another sort were at times on the sideline.
        As Snow recalled it: ''I once ran over Telly Savalas on an out pass. I tippy-toed to stay in bounds and nailed him. I looked down to see who I hit and said, 'Oh, my God.' Told my wife that night that I'd KO'd Kojak.''
      