
        Marshall A. Robinson, former president of the Russell Sage Foundation in New York, died on Saturday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 83, and died after a long illness, his family said.
        After a career in academia and with the Ford Foundation, Dr. Robinson headed the Russell Sage Foundation, one of the nation's oldest private philanthropies, from 1979 to 1986. The foundation, established in 1907, focuses on research in the social sciences, supporting and publishing studies on topics like the social effects of economic inequality.
        Before he took the helm, the foundation had had a succession of short-lived administrations and faced friction between trustees and directors as well as outside questions over the relevancy of its work. During his tenure, the foundation spent millions of dollars in research grants exploring topics like risk perception and the way the changing roles of men and women were reshaping the country's institutions.
        He sought to avoid either a liberal or conservative label for the foundation, with resident or visiting scholars drawn from both the conservative American Enterprise Institute and the liberal Brookings Institution.
        Marshall Alan Robinson was born in Berkeley, Calif., and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1943. He served as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps in the Pacific in World War II before receiving a master's degree in 1948 and a Ph.D. in economics in 1950 from Ohio State University.
        He started teaching at Ohio State and rose to assistant professor at Tulane University and Dartmouth College. He was a senior staff member and assistant to the president at Brookings in the late 1950's and then worked as a professor of economics and dean of the Graduate School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh.
        In 1964 he joined the Ford Foundation, rising to vice president for resources and the environment before moving to the Russell Sage Foundation in 1979. After his retirement there, he was a visiting professor at the Graduate School of the City University of New York and a fellow at the Institute of Social and Policy Studies, Yale University. From 1992 until last year he was vice president of the Daniele Agostino Foundation in of New York, which supports women and children's programs in Indian communities, primarily in Guatemala and Mexico.
        Dr. Robinson is survived by his second wife, Flavia Derossi; two daughters, Joan D. Robinson of Lexington, Mass., and Margaret E. Caldwell of El Cerrito, Calif.; a son, Richard W. of Santa Monica, Calif.; and two granddaughters. His first marriage, to Ynid Douglas Rankin, ended in divorce.
        Huge sums had been spent to conquer poverty in this country without defining its root causes, he told The New York Times in 1982, noting the role of social science in tackling modern problems. ''There's an eternal battle going on between the people who say let's do and not just think about doing, and those who want to be more thoughtful,'' he said. ''There's room for both.''
      