
        David S. Kruidenier, a former publisher of The Des Moines Register who devoted much of his post-newspaper career to revitalizing downtown Des Moines, died on Monday in Des Moines. He was 84.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Kruidenier was a member of the Cowles family, which entered the Des Moines newspaper business in 1904 when Mr. Kruidenier's maternal grandfather, Gardner Cowles, bought The Register.
        The Cowles Media Company eventually grew to include The Des Moines Tribune, The Minneapolis Star and Tribune and other newspaper, radio and television properties in Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois, Oregon, Tennessee and Wisconsin.
        Mr. Kruidenier started in the family business in 1948 as a trainee at The Minneapolis Star and Tribune, moving to Des Moines three years later to join The Register and Tribune. In 1971, he became the president, publisher and chairman, which he remained until 1985.
        Throughout his decades in the newspaper business, Mr. Kruidenier faced an industrywide decline in circulation and profits. In 1982, he was a crucial figure in the decision to close The Des Moines Tribune, an afternoon paper, after its circulation slumped. Three years later, the Gannett Company bought The Register for approximately $165 million, ending 81 years of Cowles family ownership.
        Under the leadership of Mr. Kruidenier, The Register was one of the top newspapers in the country, winning 3 of its 15 Pulitzer Prizes.
        Mr. Kruidenier was an avid supporter of the arts and business development in Des Moines He recruited I. M. Pei in the 1960's and Richard Meier in the 1980's to design wings of the Des Moines Art Center. In the 1970's, he led an effort to raise $9 million for the completion of a downtown civic center.
        After the Cowles Media properties were sold in 1998, Mr. Kruidenier turned his attention full time to philanthropy and the Kruidenier Foundation. He gave millions to other projects to improve the city center.
        David Scholte Kruidenier was born in 1921 in Des Moines. From 1942 to 1945, he served in World War II as an Army Air Force officer.
        After his military service, Mr. Kruidenier graduated from Yale. He later earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard.
        Mr. Kruidenier was a trustee of the Des Moines Art Center and with his wife, the former Elizabeth Stuart, owned a vast personal art collection.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Kruidenier is survived by their daughter, Lisa Kruidenier, of Colorado.
      