
        Ronald Hector, the silver-haired fellow in the morning suit behind the front desk of the Carlyle hotel whose aplomb in juggling room preferences and protecting the privacy of princesses, prime ministers and pretenders was the stuff of lobby legend, died on Jan. 29 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 66.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his friend Martin Sonkin.
        Mr. Hector's welcome was among the first for guests, whom he termed friends. He would remember room preferences and special requests, including whether a particular guest needed one of the 23 suites with baby grand pianos, each tuned twice a week.
        Mr. Hector was known to take cabs to Kennedy International Airport to deliver forgotten luggage. His soft-spoken polish prompted GQ magazine last year to say that he could ''out-Jeeves an entire library of P. G. Wodehouse novels.''
        In a city that is now home to more than a handful of luxury hotels, the Carlyle, at 76th Street and Madison Avenue, has cultivated a reputation for lush comfort since 1930. There are two staff members for each guest, but Mr. Hector stood out. A regular visitor from Massachusetts, after learning of his death, sent a letter calling Mr. Hector ''the face'' of the hotel.
        Indeed, after 40 years in the lobby, he seemed as much a fixture as the Louis XV chests. He delighted in seeing the grown children of couples he met on their honeymoons.
        That is not to say that his many ''friends'' received unlimited chumminess; Mr. Hector politely turned down invitations to tea to maintain ''professional distance.''
        He could keep a secret in a palace of secrets. The Carlyle was the New York residence of Diana, Princess of Wales. Mr. Hector personally helped her scurry unnoticed through a flower shop to her room.
        In general, he would tell stories about celebrities only after they were dead. One involved the time Audrey Hepburn was sitting on a couch and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis plopped down next to her. They talked for a half an hour, he said, and he thought they both looked beautiful.
        So did Grace Kelly and Sophia Loren. Mr. Hector somehow managed to ask Princess Grace if she had enjoyed her lunch. When she smiled and said yes, he was so thrilled he broke his own rule and told everybody. He remembered beasts as well as beauties, recalling how Jackie Gleason dropped his cigarette butts on the floor at exactly the spot he claimed to remember an ashtray.
        Then there was the time, many years ago, when a woman who said her name was ''Whoopee'' asked to see a particularly secretive guest. Mr. Hector was at a loss as to what to do. With angst and trepidation, he called the guest, who hurried down to greet Whoopi Goldberg.
        Ronald David Hector was born in Brattleboro, Vt., on Nov. 7, 1939. His father was a butcher, and his own first job, at 16, was at a local hotel. He graduated from the University of Vermont, where he met Mr. Sonkin in a freshman math class. The two owned houses in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens, and Berlin, N.Y.
        Mr. Hector left no other immediate survivors.
        He worked at several Manhattan hotels, and started in the Carlyle as a room clerk on April 13, 1965. Michael O'Connell, a bellman at the Carlyle for 55 years, was pretty sure his friend was nervous at first, if only because every new employee is, often with reason. President Harry S. Truman was the first person Mr. O'Connell greeted.
        Mr. Hector had various titles at the hotel, the last being executive assistant manager. He developed immense and uncanny expertise at manipulating the board on which names and rooms were juggled until the puzzle was at least temporarily solved. He adapted the system to computers only reluctantly.
        If every day in the hotel business is a crisis, some were worse than others. Mr. Hector stood behind the front desk during the 1977 blackout; on a day when the hotel, with about 180 rooms, was 38 rooms overbooked; and on Sept. 11, after the World Trade Center towers fell and air traffic was halted.
        ''Most of the checkouts? Can't. Most of the arrivals? Can't,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 2001. ''You had the not-leavings, and the not-comings.''
        Mr. Hector, again, kept things together. Sherri Nelson of Los Angeles, who handles the travel arrangements of movie stars and others she won't name, remembered his favorite phrase.
        ''Let me play with it for a while and see what I can work out,'' he would say.
      