
        Michael Gilbert, who somehow managed to produce dozens of intricately plotted and gracefully written detective stories, police procedural novels, espionage thrillers, puzzle mysteries and crime-based plays for stage, radio and television while carrying on a separate career as a senior partner in a firm of London solicitors, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Luddesdown, Kent. He was 93.
        His death was confirmed by his former publisher Douglas Greene of Crippen & Landru.
        According to an article by the British author and critic H. R. F. Keating, who included Mr. Gilbert's 1950 novel ''Smallbone Deceased'' (whose plot he deemed ''in every way as good as those of Agatha Christie at her best'') in ''Crime & Mystery: The 100 Best Books,'' Mr. Gilbert was still writing mysteries until a few years before he died.
        Beginning in 1947 with the novel ''Close Quarters,'' Mr. Gilbert's work was notable for its high literary style and meticulous plot construction, elements that put him in the category of those classical masters of what is often called the golden age of the British mystery -- Dorothy Sayers, Michael Innes and Cyril Hare among them -- who valued above all else a sturdy story with a daunting puzzle, layered with dense detail, multiple clues and schools of red herrings.
        But Mr. Gilbert was hardly a slave to category. Although he wrote a popular series featuring Patrick Petrella, an erudite detective who over several procedural novels worked his way up from lowly constable to detective chief inspector with Scotland Yard, Mr. Gilbert was quick to try out new sleuths and place them in a variety of fiction subgenres. Two elderly counterintelligence agents, Daniel John Calder and Samuel Behrens, who figured in several short stories with espionage themes, exercised considerable skill at passing themselves off as harmless, even witless, country gentlemen. The bluff Chief Inspector Hazelrigg was the protagonist of another popular series. But Mr. Gilbert also pressed civilians, from art experts and government bureaucrats to the dean of a cathedral, into one-time service as amateur sleuths of his novels.
        ''Smallbone Deceased,'' published in the United States by Harper & Brothers, as was much of his other writing, is most often cited by critics as Mr. Gilbert's most intricate and rewarding novel. Set in a firm of London solicitors who work under the shingle of Horniman, Birley and Graine, the novel ingeniously cross-fertilizes the arcane workings of British law with the elaborate red herrings and blind clues of the traditional whodunit. Many of Mr. Gilbert's stories begin in law offices and turn on technical legal matters that sometimes make their way into trial scenes. He himself wrote much of his work on his one-hour trip between home and office. Given the author's own legal background, it was no wonder that he took pleasure in mixing the high drama of the courtroom with the low farce afforded by suave lawyers and their unsavory clients.
        Carolyn Heilbrun, the literary scholar who wrote academic mysteries under the name of Amanda Cross, saw something more enduring than a keen (one might even say nit-picking) legal mind behind Mr. Gilbert's urbane mysteries, literary spy stories and harrowing thrillers. In a 1982 review of ''Mr. Calder and Mr. Behrens'' and ''End-Game'' for The New York Times Book Review, Heilbrun characterized his entertaining fiction as ''what I think of as the English male romance, in which the ideals of boyhood and youth make one either gallant or a renegade.'' Observing the ''male camaraderie'' of his sleuths, she saw his novels as repositories for ''the myths of friendship, loyalty, courage and unadvertised accomplishment.''
        The first editions of Mr. Gilbert's last two books, both short story collections, were published by a small American house, Crippen & Landru. ''The Man Who Hated Banks and Other Mysteries'' came out in 1997, and ''The Curious Conspiracy and Other Crimes'' was published in 2002, for the author's 90th birthday.
        ''Michael was an exceptionally fine storyteller, but he's hard to classify,'' said Mr. Greene of Crippen & Landru. ''He's not a hard-boiled writer in the classic sense, but there is a hard edge to him, a feeling within his work that not all of society is rational, that virtue is not always rewarded.''
        Michael Francis Gilbert was born in Billinghay, Lincolnshire, on July 17, 1912, and graduated with honors from the University of London, where he studied law, in 1937. He served with the Royal Horse Artillery in North Africa and Europe during World War II and, after being captured in 1943, was imprisoned in an Italian military prison for the duration of the war, an experience that he turned into fiction in his 1952 novel ''Death in Captivity.''
        In 1947 he married Roberta Marsden, who survives him, as do their two sons and five daughters. That same year, he joined the London law firm of Trower Still & Keeling, becoming a partner in 1952 and taking on clients like the Conservative Party, the sultan of Bahrain and Raymond Chandler, whose will he drew up. Although he retired from the firm in 1983, he continued to use his personal experiences with the law as source material for his novels. He also continued writing, turning out book reviews and anthologies, as well as novels, stories and plays.
        Mr. Gilbert was made a C. B. E. (commander, order of the British Empire) in 1980. A founding member of the Crime Writers Association, which awarded him its Diamond Dagger for lifetime achievement in 1994, he was named a grandmaster by the Mystery Writers of America in 1988.
        Two of his later works, ''Roller Coaster''(1993) and ''Into Battle''(1994), were reprinted in the United States by Carroll & Graf, whose publisher, Kent Carroll, prized Mr. Gilbert's writing for its stately style and extraordinary range.
        ''He was always so utterly urbane and civilized,'' Mr. Carroll said yesterday. ''He wrote about a sordid world from the perspective of a gentleman. There was something comforting as well as exciting about that.''
      