
        The bandleader Skitch Henderson, who died on Nov. 1 at 87, was honored yesterday at a Carnegie Hall memorial service as a towering influence over American entertainment who retained a wry sense of humor and common touch on the streets of New York.
        The service, on a stage where Mr. Henderson was said to have performed 281 times, was open to the public, and nearly every seat was filled in Carnegie Hall. Liz Smith, Mike Wallace, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Marilyn Horn and Kitty Carlisle Hart offered anecdotes about his musicianship and personal warmth.
        Their comments were punctuated by music from the New York Pops orchestra, which Mr. Henderson founded and conducted. It performed an eclectic mix of symphonic work, jazz and Broadway tunes that echoed Mr. Henderson's own wide ranging interests as a conductor, pianist and entertainer. He became best known in the 1950's as a mainstay on the ''Tonight'' show with Steve Allen, and later Johnny Carson.
        The musical program was perhaps climaxed by the appearance of Ms. Carlisle Hart, who is 95. In full voice and unwavering pitch, she led the audience in a sing-along rendition of Irving Berlin's ''Always,'' a song she said Mr. Henderson had insisted she sing repeatedly over a professional relationship that spanned decades.
        Mr. Henderson's rapport with his fans was reflected in an anecdote recounted by James M. Johnson, the executive director of the New York Pops. He recalled Mr. Henderson, in an elevator, being addressed as Skitch by a woman he had never met, and engaging her in an animated conversation.
        ''He was on a first-name basis with half of New York, and the other half wanted to shake his hand,'' Mr. Johnson said.
        Mr. Giuliani, who had been invited by Mr. Henderson to appear as a guest conductor at a New York Pops performance in 1995, described the experience in a way that revealed both Mr. Henderson's wit and the professionalism he had instilled in the orchestra.
        Mr. Giuliani said the Pops musicians seemed to respond so well to his direction that at one point he simply dropped his arms to his sides, and stopped conducting, only to find the orchestra played on seamlessly.
        Mr. Henderson's response to the episode, Mr. Giuliani said, was a joke. ''Skitch said it's a little like being the mayor of New York,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''You think you are in charge, but you really are not.''
        Correction:  February 9, 2006, Thursday  An article on Tuesday about a memorial service for the bandleader Skitch Henderson misspelled the surname of the mezzo-soprano who was a speaker. She is Marilyn Horne, not Horn.
      