
        Henry N. Michael, an anthropologist and geographer who used the growth rings of ancient pine trees to help resolve problems of radiocarbon dating in archaeology, died last Sunday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 92 and a resident of nearby Ardmore.
        Dr. Michael's family confirmed his death.
        While a professor of geography at Temple University, Dr. Michael studied Siberia and the cultures of the Eskimos and other Arctic people, and translated works from their Russian sources. But he was most widely recognized for elegant and groundbreaking research on the ancient bristlecone pine trees found in the White Mountains of California.
        Beginning in the late 1950's, he drilled samples from standing trees, which can live 4,500 years or more, to study their growth rings for telltale patterns. Other scientists had discovered discrepancies when using radiocarbon dating methods on archaeological digs in the Mediterranean, bringing into question a standard method of establishing a site's age.
        Working with Elizabeth Ralph of the University of Pennsylvania and C. Wesley Ferguson of the University of Arizona, Dr. Michael and others used the pines as living calendars and subjected rings of known age to radiocarbon testing. The research, which was also partly conducted at the University of California, San Diego, expanded the known record for radiocarbon testing by thousands of years, to create a reliable chronology for archaeologists and other scientists.
        With tests from Stonehenge and similar sites, others employed the corrected record to discredit a notion then prevailing within anthropology: that Northern European civilizations had been necessarily derived from Greece or Egypt.
        In the 1970's and 80's, Dr. Michael continued to hunt for even older samples of buried bristlecones and managed to match signature patterns from dead trees to living samples, eventually pushing back the limit of the radiocarbon record to 7,400 B.C. He successfully applied the dating method to timbers from Greece and to the cedars of Lebanon, and handed over his data to the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research at the University of Arizona in the 1990's.
        In separate work as an anthropologist, he translated the legends of the Yupik Eskimos of Siberia. From 1959 to 1974, he helped edit a series of books, ''Anthropology of the North,'' published by the University of Toronto Press.
        During the cold war, he maintained ties with Russian anthropologists and translated and helped publish their articles. He also edited an account of an early exploration of Alaska and the Yukon, ''Lieutenant Zagoskin's Travels in Russian America, 1842-1844.''
        Henry Michael was born in Pittsburgh and earned his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He was named an assistant professor at Temple in 1959, the year he began his tree-ring studies as a research associate at Penn.
        He was chairman of Temple's geography department from 1965 to 1973, and retired there in 1980. Yet until last year he continued his studies at Penn, working at its Museum Applied Science Center for Archaeology, where he was a senior fellow.
        Dr. Michael is survived by his wife of 63 years, Ida; a daughter, Shelley Michael of Ardmore; two sons, Andrew, of Downingtown, Pa., and Richard, of Chevy Chase, Md.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      