
        Basil V. Worgul, a biologist at Columbia University who studied radiation's harmful effects on the eye, particularly as a cause of cataracts, and helped lead a long-term international study of thousands of workers exposed to radiation in the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Edgewater, N.J. He was 58.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Worgul's research ranged from studies of health risks from low doses of radiation in occupational exposures to an examination of the effects of cosmic radiation received by astronauts. Beginning in the early 1990's, he was a director of the Ukrainian/American Chernobyl Ocular Study, which is following about 12,000 workers exposed to radiation in the course of cleaning up after the meltdown of the reactor.
        Most of the workers wore radiation-exposure badges called dosimeters, and Dr. Worgul and others tried to correlate the extent of irradiation with the onset of cataracts and related eye conditions. For decades, ophthalmologists have found that radiation from the atmosphere is one cause of cataracts, a clouding of the lens that can also be genetic or linked to diabetes.
        A colleague at Columbia, Norman J. Kleiman, who is also involved in the Chernobyl study, said preliminary findings suggest that the exposure threshold for radiation damage to the eye may be lower than previously believed. Dr. Kleiman added that Dr. Worgul found indications that even a small dose of radiation to a single cell might be enough exposure to lead to cataracts. The study is intended to help prepare a scale for assessing potential damage from radiation exposure.
        In other work, Dr. Worgul studied congenital cataracts and explored the notion of genetic susceptibility to developing cataracts and other eye conditions.
        Basil Vladimir Worgul was born in Manhattan. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of Miami and his doctorate from the University of Vermont.
        He joined Columbia in 1974, and was named an assistant professor of radiation biology in 1979. Dr. Worgul became a professor of radiation biology, in the departments of ophthalmology and radiology, in 1990. He also served as director of the Eye Radiation and Environmental Research Laboratory at Columbia, which he helped establish in 1984.
        In 1992, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.
        Dr. Worgul is survived by his wife, the former Kathleen Hennessey; a son, Ronald, of Florida, N.Y.; a daughter, Suzanne Pappano, of Cambridge, England; his mother, Stephanie, of Andover, N.J.; a brother, John, of Vernon, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
      