
        Sir Nicholas Shackleton, a geologist who studied cycles of climate changes going back more than a million years and who issued some early warnings on global warming, died Jan. 24 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 68.
        The cause was leukemia, said Joyce Gavin, a climate researcher at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University, who was with Sir Nicholas when he died.
        An emeritus professor at the department of earth sciences at the University of Cambridge, where he spent his entire career, Sir Nicholas specialized in paleoclimatology, the study of past climates, and paleoceanography, the study of oceans in the distant past.
        ''He worked backwards, not forwards, and no one else did that,'' said Ekhard Salje, president of Clare Hall at Cambridge and head of the department of earth sciences, referring to his work in climatology.
        His particular interest was the Quaternary period, the most recent geological era, roughly the last 1.8 million years. He was the director of the Godwin Institute for Quaternary Research in the department of earth sciences at Cambridge until he retired in 2004. The era is divided into about 40 time periods in which massive ice sheets and mountain ice caps built up over wide swaths of land, separated by periods of warm weather in which the ice receded. Ice ages occurred roughly every 100,000 years, Sir Nicholas's data indicated.
        Sir Nicholas concluded that several forces cause ice to advance and retreat, and that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere are far more significant than temperature in glacial movement.
        Combining data from an ice sheet in Russia with data from fossil shells extricated from the depths of the oceans, he showed that a drop in the level of carbon dioxide fosters the cooling process that spreads ice. As a result, he warned, increasing the emissions of gases into the atmosphere can cause global warming.
        Sir Nicholas was a pioneer in the study of deep sea fossils, modifying a spectrometer, an instrument used to measure spectral wavelengths, so that it could analyze minuscule samples embedded in sediment on the ocean floor. That technology opened the door to a variety of studies, including one finding evidence that the most recent reversal of the earth's magnetic field took place 780,000 years ago.
        In 1976, he published a paper with James Hays of Columbia University and John Imbrie of Brown University putting forward their findings that changes in three characteristics of the way in which the earth orbits the sun -- the shape of the orbit itself and the tilt and direction of its axis -- cause the 100,000-year cycles of the Quaternary.
        Nicholas John Shackleton was born June 23, 1937, the son of Robert Millner Shackleton, a well-known field geologist, and the former Gwen Isabel Harland. The family was distantly related to Sir Ernest Shackleton, the explorer of the Antarctic. He spent part of his childhood in Kenya, where his father worked.
        ''My father was described as 'perhaps the last of the great field geologists,' and so, not surprisingly, he had a big influence in my career choice,'' Sir Nicholas told The Independent of London in 2002. ''Mind you, what appealed to me about geology was going out into the field and wandering across the countryside, whereas in fact, I've spent all my life in the lab.''
        He earned a bachelor's degree and his Ph.D. from Clare College at the University of Cambridge. In 1995 became the director of the Godwin Institute of Quaternary Research. In 1998, he was knighted for his contributions to science.
        His marriage to Judith Carola Murray ended in divorce. In 1986 he married Vivien Law, a historian of linguistics and an expert in ancient grammar, who died in 2002. He is survived by two sisters, Penelope Mitford Shackleton of Sutton Courtenay, and Annabel Cormack of London, and by his companion, Ingrid Pearson.
        Sir Nicholas was also an impassioned classical clarinetist, once telling Dr. Hays of Columbia that he was more famous for the clarinet than for science.
      