
        Lou Jones, a former world-record holder in the 400 meters and a member of the United States 4x400-meter relay squad that won a gold medal at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, died Friday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 74 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        His death was announced by his son Louis Jones IV.
        While in the Army after competing for Manhattan College, Jones clipped fourth-tenths of a second off the 400-meter world record, capturing the event in 45.4 seconds at the 1955 Pan American Games in Mexico City. He collapsed from exhaustion in the high altitude when he crossed the finish line after eclipsing the mark set by George Rhoden of Jamaica.
        Jones set his record with a new pair of shoes received from his former coach at Manhattan, George Eastment, a little more than a week before the Games. The day Jones achieved the record, Eastment told The Associated Press that he had received a letter from him saying that the shoes ''were a perfect fit.''
        Jones broke his record in June 1956 when he won the 400 meters in the Olympic trials at the Los Angeles Coliseum, clocking 45.2 seconds. But he finished fifth in the 400 at the Melbourne Games in November, setting the early pace in a race won by Charlie Jenkins of Villanova in 46.7 seconds.
        Jones captured a gold medal at Melbourne when he teamed with Jenkins, Tom Courtney and Jesse Mashburn in the 4x400 relay triumph.
        Louis Woodard Jones III graduated from Manhattan College in 1954 with a degree in business administration and received a master's degree from Teachers College of Columbia University.
        He was a teacher, coach and administrator at New Rochelle High School, a dean at Manhattan College and an assistant professor at Queensborough Community College.
        He was formerly director of Westchester County's Equal Employment Opportunity unit.
        In addition to Louis Jones IV, of Massachusetts, he is survived by his son Steven and a daughter, Carla Jones, both of Greenburgh, N.Y. His marriage to Vivian Jones ended in divorce.
      