
        Msgr. John T. Fagan, who retired in 2001 as director of Little Flower Children and Family Services of New York, one of the largest social service agencies in the country, died on Thursday at his home in Wading River, N.Y. He was 79.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said Herbert W. Stupp, Father Fagan's successor as chief executive of Little Flower, which is based on Long Island. Father Fagan, who sat on several state and national boards, commissions and committees, foreshadowed his long association with Little Flower in 1945. That year, he volunteered as a counselor and lifeguard at Camp Claver, a summer camp for needy youngsters in Wading River, where the agency has its headquarters.
        John Thomas Fagan was raised in Brooklyn, studied at the Seminary of the Immaculate Conception in Huntington, and was ordained in 1952. After serving in parishes on Long Island and in Queens, he was assigned in 1960 to head Little Flower.
        The agency was formed in 1929 by parishioners of St. Peter Claver's Church in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, to offer needy neighborhood children a summer treat on the shores of Long Island Sound. It grew into a year-round, full-service family agency.
        Father Fagan received a master's degree in psychiatric social work from Fordham University in 1962. Under his direction, Little Flower grew into the largest private children's aid agency in the region. It now offers an array of programs and services for children, families and disabled adults throughout Long Island and New York City.
        In 1982 it opened one of the first community-based residences for the mentally handicapped, near Prospect Park in Brooklyn. A later foster-family program for such adults provided two additional residences in Queens and Long Island.
        An urgent appeal by Father Fagan in the late 1980's on behalf of ''boarder babies'' -- newborns with birth parents unable or unwilling to care for them -- drew more than 1,000 responses, the agency said, and more than 2,600 babies had found a place with families by the time the emergency was declared over, in 1991.
        Father Fagan sought to give deprived children stability by finding them families through expanded fostering and adoption programs. He also shifted the agency's residential program toward smaller, more familial group-living arrangements, rather than institutionalized group settings.
        Father Fagan is survived by a brother, Msgr. R. Emmet Fagan of Huntington, N. Y.; and three sisters, Jane Fucigna of Quogue, N. Y.; Helen Marie Murphy of Garden City, N. Y.; and Sister Kathleen Fagan of London.
      