
        Henry S. Coleman, who arrived at Columbia University as a freshman who would have preferred Princeton and stayed for a third of a century as an administrator, including a memorable 24 hours in 1968 when student demonstrators took him hostage, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 79.
        The cause was a blood disorder, his son-in-law Frank Strasburger said.
        Mr. Coleman, then acting dean of Columbia College, the undergraduate part of the university, was barricaded in his office by members of the Students for a Democratic Society and the Student Afro-American Society during the school's famous upheavals in April 1968.
        Newspapers quoted students, including demonstrators, saying how much they liked him.
        ''He's a very nice jock who's been a much better dean than anybody expected,'' a student who identified himself only as an S.D.S. member told The New York Times.
        Four years later, Mr. Coleman again appeared in news reports when he was shot five times by a disgruntled student who was angry because the university had asked him to withdraw because of low grades.
        Henry Simmons Coleman was born in Manhattan on April 20, 1926. He attended the Hill School in Pottstown, Pa., and planned to attend Princeton.
        But the Navy V-12 program, which began during World War II and put young men through college at an accelerated pace so they could serve as officers, sent him to Columbia. After graduation in February 1946, he spent six months as an ensign on a destroyer escort.
        He returned to Columbia that fall to do graduate work in engineering. When he finished this work two years later, he was asked to become assistant to the dean of the college to administer a new scholarship program.
        For four years, he headed all of the college's financial aid programs and at the same time coached the varsity lightweight crew; he had participated in crew as a student athlete. In the Korean War, he was recalled to the Navy for two years.
        He returned to the college to work in financial aid. In 1958, he was named assistant dean of the college, and in 1960, director of admissions. In the admissions post, he worked to de-emphasize the significance of standardized tests and to increase minority enrollment.
        In 1967, he became acting dean of the college, the position he held in April 1968, when students protested Columbia's plans to build a gymnasium in a nearby park, among other things.
        Mark Rudd, president of Columbia's S.D.S. chapter, announced that Mr. Coleman had been selected to be the group's hostage. He urged that the several hundred protesters remain in Hamilton Hall outside Mr. Coleman's office until their demands were met.
        Dean Coleman was not in his office when the protest began. After elbowing his way through several hundred chanting protesters, he stood next to Mr. Rudd and declared, ''I have no control over the demands you are making, but I have no intention of meeting any demand under a situation such as this.''
        The protesters then used furniture to barricade him in his office. Later that night, the S.D.S. left to seize another building, and members of the black student group remained. In reminiscences, some participants have suggested that Mr. Coleman was free to leave, but stayed to carry on a dialogue with his captors. Contemporaneous accounts never hinted that he was anything but a captive.
        After 24 hours or so, Mr. Coleman left. The Times reported that he ''strode out calmly and briskly, showing no sign that he had been unsettled by the experience.'' He remarked that food had been plentiful.
        The protests ended a week later when Mayor John V. Lindsay sent in 1,000 police officers to clear occupied buildings. The contested gym was never built.
        Mr. Coleman stayed on to serve as dean of students for four successive deans of the college and retired in 1979.
        Mr. Coleman, who lived in New Canaan, Conn., is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Lila Heffelfinger; his daughters Wendy Hiboldt, of New Canaan, and Carrie Strasburger, of Princeton, N.J.; his son, Hank, of Yardley, Pa.; and nine grandchildren.
        After his retirement, he started Coleman Associates to counsel college-bound high school students and administer various scholarship programs. He wrote law school recommendations for some of the students who had held him captive.
      