
        Herbert Schilder, a Boston dental surgeon who refined the instruments and techniques used to perform root canals and made the procedure safer and more successful, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 77.
        The cause was Lewy body disease, a brain malady, his family said.
        In the 1960's, while teaching at the Boston University School of Dental Medicine, Dr. Schilder developed what became known as the Schilder technique to save teeth severely damaged by infection in their internal tissue.
        Root canals are typically performed on teeth that would otherwise have to be extracted. An infected tooth is drilled in order to remove blood and nerve tissue and sterilize its interior. Dr. Schilder experimented with materials to pack the tooth permanently and succeeded in shaping gutta-percha, a pliable, natural substance derived from trees, and inserting it into the vacant canals in teeth.
        Gutta-percha had been used for similar procedures in dentistry, as had silver, but Dr. Schilder's method of compressing it and then heating it managed to fill the tooth effectively. As in all root canals, the tooth was then crowned to provide a permanent seal.
        The result was a long-lasting solution that halted the deterioration of a tooth's internal tissue.
        A colleague, Harold J. Levin, a professor of endodontics at Boston University, recalled that Dr. Schilder had stressed the importance of thoroughly cleaning out a tooth's infected interior. Dr. Schilder adapted files, reamers and other dental tools to work specifically in the procedure.
        The Schilder technique and tools are still widely used, even as some endodontists have more recently started to pack teeth with plastics.
        Herbert Schilder was born in Brooklyn and received his undergraduate and dental degrees from New York University.
        After teaching briefly at Tufts and Temple, he arrived at Boston University in 1958. He was chairman of the department of endodontics from 1966 to 1999 and retired as a professor of endodontics in 2003. He also had a private practice in Brookline, Mass.
        Dr. Schilder served as president of the American Association of Endodontists and the Massachusetts Dental Society and as first vice president of the American Dental Association.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Joan Baylor; a son, Richard, of Belmont, Mass.; and a brother, Dr. Stanley Schilder, a dentist, of Forest Hills, Queens.
      