
        Otis Chandler, who inherited The Los Angeles Times from his parents and then, as its publisher, transformed it into one of the most respected, widely read and profitable newspapers in the United States, died yesterday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Chandler died of a degenerative brain disorder known as Lewy body disease, said Tom Johnson, who succeeded Mr. Chandler as publisher.
        Born to a life of privilege, Mr. Chandler was given the reins of the newspaper in 1960, bringing with him a reputation as a ruggedly handsome golden boy with a preference for body-building over journalism. But he shed that image as publisher as he set about remaking what was then a provincial, lightly regarded daily. Almost immediately he angered family members and local Republicans by shifting the paper from its right-wing bias to a more centrist outlook.
        Under his leadership, the newspaper hired talented journalists, opened dozens of bureaus throughout the world and won numerous awards, including nine Pulitzer Prizes. Mr. Chandler also distinguished himself as an empire builder, expanding the Times Mirror Company, the parent corporation of The Los Angeles Times, by purchasing Newsday, The Baltimore Sun, The Hartford Courant, several broadcast and cable television stations and two highly regarded book publishers, New American Library and Harry Abrams Publishing.
        Yet Mr. Chandler was never able to rid himself entirely of the suspicion that he was not taken seriously enough by his peers at The New York Times, The Washington Post and other members of the Eastern news media establishment. His critics could not understand his enthusiasm for surfing, big-game hunting, motorcycles and sports cars -- obsessions that several times nearly cost him his life. Even Chandler loyalists were dumbfounded by his decision to quit in 1980, when he was 52.
        ''Otis has gone surfing, and he's never coming back,'' Noel Greenwood, The Times's metropolitan editor, famously remarked about his boss's unexpected abdication, according to Dennis McDougal, the author of ''Privileged Son,'' a well-regarded biography of Mr. Chandler published in 2001.
        But Mr. McDougal, a former Los Angeles Times reporter, said yesterday that ''Otis was certainly the last of the great 20th-century newspaper publishers,'' one who brought ''national and international stature'' to the paper and who spared no expense in pursuing the news.
        In retirement, Mr. Chandler lashed out at The Times's managers during a 1999 scandal that erupted over revelations that they had secretly entered a deal to devote an edition of the newspaper's Sunday magazine to the Staples Center, a new indoor sports arena in Los Angeles, in exchange for hefty ad revenues.
        In a public letter to Times employees, Mr. Chandler warned that the management's ''unbelievably stupid and unprofessional'' behavior risked destroying the newspaper's glowing reputation.
        Mr. Chandler remained so upset at The Times that he welcomed its acquisition by the Chicago-based Tribune Company a year later. The sale ended four generations of Chandler family control over the newspaper, beginning 1882, when Gen. Harrison Gray Otis, a Civil War veteran, bought part-ownership of it.
        Otis Chandler was born on Nov. 23, 1927, in Los Angeles, the only son of Norman Chandler, who became publisher of The Times, and Dorothy Buffum Chandler, a passionate fund-raiser who helped transform Los Angeles into a major cultural center.
        Otis Chandler was sent to prep school at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. Though a mediocre student, he was personable and athletic enough to be voted ''most likely to succeed'' by his classmates. He then attended Stanford University, where he became one of the premier shot-putters in the nation. He married a Stanford student, Marilyn Brant, in 1951, and they had five children: Norman, Harry, Cathleen, Michael and Carolyn. After a two-year stint in the Air Force, which assigned him to the track team, young Otis joined the family newspaper.
        Seven-Year Trainee
        His father tailored a seven-year executive training program for him. He began as an apprentice pressman on the late night shift, then had stints as a general assignment reporter and junior executive in circulation before being promoted to general manager of The Los Angeles Mirror News, an afternoon tabloid owned by his family. But he was unable to pull the newspaper out of the red. In 1958, he moved back to The Times as its vice president for sales.
        On April 11, 1960, Norman Chandler invited more than 700 of the most powerful businessmen, politicians and entertainers in Southern California to a banquet at the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles, where he made a surprise announcement: he was appointing his 32-year-old son, Otis, sitting next to him, as publisher of The Times, effectively immediately.
        Otis Chandler claimed he was as stunned as the rest of the audience, and his immediate response seemed to bear him out: ''Wow! If someone were to hand me a shot-put right now, I think I could put it 70 feet!''
        But the young publisher was taking over what was considered one of the worst major dailies in the country. S. J. Perelman, the New Yorker humorist, wrote that during a train trip to the West he asked the porter for a newspaper, ''and unfortunately the poor man, hard of hearing, brought me The Los Angeles Times.'' The NBC News anchor Chet Huntley claimed to read the newspaper in order to ''know that I can be reasonably accurate by going 180 degrees in the other direction.''
        In its political coverage, The Times made no pretense of fairness. In 1950, the political editor, Kyle Palmer, wrote that The Los Angeles Times intended to back Richard M. Nixon for the Senate while covering his liberal Democratic rival, Helen Gahagan Douglas, ''from time to time, as space allows.''
        Soon after taking over as publisher, Otis Chandler vowed to raise the stature of the paper.
        The daily's new course was evident in the 1960 presidential election. While the editorial page, as expected, backed Mr. Nixon, who was then vice president, news articles gave balanced coverage to his opponent, Senator John F. Kennedy. Two years later, the paper again demonstrated impartiality while covering Mr. Nixon's losing gubernatorial campaign against Pat Brown. It was a reporter from The Los Angeles Times who was the chief target of Mr. Nixon's sour post-election statement in which he declared: ''You won't have Nixon to kick around anymore, because, gentlemen, this is my last press conference.'' Under the next two decades of Mr. Chandler's stewardship, the Times Mirror Company and its flagship newspaper scored one success after another. Reversing decades of indifference to Los Angeles's African-American community, The Times won a Pulitzer Prize for its coverage of the Watts riots in 1965.
        In the 1964 presidential election, Mr. Chandler's parents insisted that their newspaper endorse Senator Barry Goldwater, the Republican candidate, and not President Lyndon B. Johnson. But by 1970, Otis Chandler's more liberal views were reflected in editorials that urged an American withdrawal from the Vietnam War.
        The Los Angeles Times soon had 34 bureaus both in the United States and abroad. By the 1970's, media critics ranked it among the best newspapers in the country. It was also among the heaviest, so thick with ads that its Sunday edition could land on a doorstep with a seven-pound thud.
        A Passion for Risk
        It also became the fastest-growing daily, with such a stranglehold over its home territory that it was able to drive The New York Times's West Coast edition out of California in 1964 only 15 months after its introduction. (The New York Times was more successful in a second attempt with a regional West Coast edition two decades later). Bulging with profits from record ad revenues, Times Mirror was able to make inroads on The New York Times's own turf in the 1970's by purchasing the dominant Long Island daily, Newsday, and three Connecticut dailies: The Hartford Courant, Greenwich Time and The Advocate in Stamford.
        Despite these accomplishments, Mr. Chandler seemed to devote as much passion to risky sports as he did to the media business. He raced Porsche cars against professionals, shattered an ankle and several ribs in a motorcycle accident, and had his shoulder torn from its socket when a musk ox gored him during an Arctic hunting expedition. He took up the shot-put again and entered senior competitions for weightlifting. He was known to suspend meetings with his editors upon receiving reports that the surf was up at Malibu.
        By his early 50's, Mr. Chandler was losing interest in publishing. In 1980, he stepped down as publisher, appointing Mr. Johnson, a former editor and publisher of The Dallas Times Herald, as his successor. It was the first time in almost a century that someone outside the family had headed The Los Angeles Times. In 1981, Mr. Chandler became the Times Mirror chairman. Four years later, under pressure from other board members, he resigned as chairman. Though he stayed on as a director and continued to attend board meetings, Mr. Chandler virtually retired from the news business.
        He and his second wife, Bettina Whitaker, whom he married in 1981, two months after divorcing his first wife, spent much of their time at homes and ranches outside Los Angeles. Mr. Chandler devoted himself to the Otis Chandler Vintage Museum of Transportation and Wildlife, which he built in Oxnard, Calif., to display his extensive car and motorcycle collection and trophy animals from his many hunting safaris.
        Mr. Chandler is survived by his wife; two sons, Harry, of Los Angeles and Michael, of Bend, Ore.; two daughters, Cathleen Eckhardt, of Soquel, Calif., and Carolyn Chandler, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a sister, Camilla Chandler Frost, of Los Angeles and 15 grandchildren, according to The Los Angeles Times. His eldest son, Norman, died of a brain tumor in 2002.
        At first, The Times seemed none the worse for Mr. Chandler's departure. By 1990, circulation reached a record of 1,225,189 on weekdays and 1,514,096 on Sundays, making it the largest metropolitan daily in the country. But The Times was facing stiff competition from formerly mediocre Southern California rivals, like The Orange County Register and The San Diego Union-Tribune. As revenues and profits fell, Mark H. Willes, a former vice chairman of General Mills, was appointed president and chief executive of the Times Mirror Company in 1995. He added the title of board chairman the next year, then fired thousands of Times Mirror employees and shut Newsday's New York City edition and The Baltimore Evening Sun.
        By 1999, Mr. Willes's decision to eliminate the traditional barriers between advertising and journalism had embroiled the newspaper in the Staples Center fiasco, in which the advertising revenues from a special edition of the paper's Sunday magazine about the new indoor sports arena would be shared between The Times and the arena's owners.
        Pride in a Principle
        Mr. Chandler, who in retirement had remained largely silent about Mr. Willes's stewardship, addressed an open letter to the staff decrying the ''enormous negative impact'' that the Staples affair was having on the paper's reputation for independent journalism. The scandal persuaded the family to sell the paper and its parent company, in 2000, to the Chicago-based Tribune Company for $6.4 billion, plus an assumed debt of $1.8 billion.
        In recent years circulation has fallen -- it was about 843,000 on weekdays and 1.2 million on Sundays last September -- and the paper has been burdened by layoffs, severe budget cuts and a soured relationship with the Tribune Company.
        William F. Thomas, who was editor of the paper under Mr. Chandler, said in an interview yesterday, ''People who worked there then, by and large, thought of it as a golden age, and the paper did reach its peak.''
        Mr. Chandler took great pride in having spoken out forcefully during the Staples Center affair. In an interview with The New York Times in 1999, Mr. Chandler said, ''I don't want my obituary to read, 'Otis had all these opportunities to be helpful and he just stayed away and said it's not my problem.' ''
      