
        Endesha Ida Mae Holland, a noted scholar and dramatist whose best-known play, ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' chronicled her journey from poverty and prostitution in the Jim Crow South to civil rights activism, a Ph.D. and an academic career, died on Jan. 25 at nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 61.
        The cause was complications of ataxia, a degenerative neurological condition, according to the University of Southern California, where she was an emeritus professor of theater. Professor Holland, who retired from U.S.C. in 2003, previously taught in the American studies department at the State University of New York, Buffalo.
        Partly financed by Oprah Winfrey, the Off Broadway production of ''From the Mississippi Delta'' opened in 1991 at the Circle in the Square Downtown. Directed by Jonathan Wilson, it starred Cheryl Lynn Bruce, Sybil Walker and Jacqueline Williams in the principal role, which depicted the author at various stages of her life.
        Though it ran for 218 performances, the production received a mixed reception from critics. Few, however, disputed the hypnotic pull of Professor Holland's story. Ida Mae Holland -- she added Endesha as an adult -- was born on Aug. 29, 1944, in the Delta town of Greenwood, Miss. She was reared along with several siblings in a wooden shack, its walls plastered with newspapers. She never knew her father; her mother, an esteemed rural midwife, sometimes took in local prostitutes as boarders to make ends meet.
        When Ida Mae was 11, in an incident she often recounted afterward, she was raped by a white man who employed her as a baby sitter. When it was over, he handed her $5.
        ''I knew I was a woman then,'' Professor Holland told Ebony magazine in 1992. ''And since I didn't want to go to the cotton fields and work all day, I figured this was a way that I could make money. And I started turning tricks.'' The going rate, she said, was $5 for black men, $10 for white.
        By her late teens, she had been arrested many times for street fighting, shoplifting and prostitution. One day, looking for a customer, she followed a young man to his office. He turned out to be a volunteer for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, which had come to Greenwood to register black voters.
        ''I saw and heard things in that office I had never seen or heard before,'' Professor Holland told Ebony. ''I had never seen black people sitting down using typewriters or heard black people talking about civil rights or voter registration.''
        She became involved with the organization, marching, speaking and registering voters, and was jailed 13 times for her activities. In 1965, a suspicious fire broke out in her family's home, killing her mother. Professor Holland said afterward that she believed the Ku Klux Klan had firebombed the house in retaliation for her civil rights work.
        Encouraged by colleagues in the movement, Ida Mae obtained a high school equivalency diploma and enrolled at the University of Minnesota. She earned a bachelor's degree in African-American studies there in 1979, followed by a master's in American Studies in 1984 and a Ph.D., also in American studies, in 1986. Professor Holland taught at Buffalo from 1985 to 1993.
        The author of a half-dozen plays, Professor Holland remained famous for ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' which has been performed by the Negro Ensemble Company, at the Goodman Theater in Chicago and at the Young Vic in London. She wrote a memoir of the same name, published by Simon & Schuster in 1997.
        Professor Holland's three marriages ended in divorce. She is survived by a sister, Jean Beasley; a brother, Charlie Nellums; a son, Cedric; and a granddaughter, according to the University of Southern California.
      