
        Frank Goodman, one of the last of the old-time Broadway press agents, a star handler and headline hustler, died on Friday at the Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medical Center. He was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter Karen Goodman.
        In an era when movies like ''Sweet Smell of Success'' made Broadway seem like the most glamorous and gritty terrain in entertainment, Mr. Goodman was as reliable a presence as broken hearts and dreams come true.
        From 1939, when he started his career, to 1961, Mr. Goodman represented more than 50 Broadway productions, including eight shows in 1960 alone. Over the years, Mr. Goodman would act as a booster and sometimes as a baby sitter for every type of show person and show personality, from the volatile genius (Jerome Robbins of ''Gypsy'') to the delicate ingénue (Audrey Hepburn in ''Gigi'' in 1951) to the predictably haunted playwrights (William Inge and Clifford Odets, among others).
        A short, feisty man, Mr. Goodman used the time-honored tools of his trade -- cajoling, coddling and candor -- on both critics and creative types, and had the war stories to prove it. In his early days as a publicist, he worked with John Houseman and Orson Welles at the Mercury Theater, a place that he said ran on ''minimum cash and maximum genius.'' He worked with Ethel Merman on ''Gypsy'' and Mary Martin on ''The Sound of Music,'' and swore that the producer David Merrick once fired him from three shows at once for taking a rival's account.
        The child of an immigrant couple from Austria -- his mother was a housekeeper, his father died when he was 2 -- Mr. Goodman was introduced to theater in the 1930's when he worked for the Federal Theater Project under the Works Projects Administration, helping to bring students to the theater in New York. It was on one of these trips, to Hunter College, that he met Arlene Wolfe, whom he would woo -- with a show, naturally -- and wed in 1937. They were married nearly 70 years and worked together for many of those. In addition to his daughter Karen, of Manhattan, Mr. Goodman is survived by another daughter, Andrea Brin of Shavertown, Pa.; Mrs. Goodman; and three grandchildren.
        Summing up his career in his unpublished memoir, Mr. Goodman started with an adage about the publicity game: ''You don't get paid for the work you do; you get paid for the grief you take.'' Mr. Goodman seemed to believe that, but only to a point.
        ''Still and all,'' he wrote, ''there's worse ways to make a living.''
      