
        George T. Davis, a swashbuckling criminal lawyer who over a half century gained fame in high-profile cases, more than 200 of them involving the death penalty, by marshaling a keen intelligence and artful folksiness, died on Feb. 4 at a resort on the Big Island of Hawaii. He was 98.
        His death was confirmed by his friend and former assistant, Suzette Martinez Standring.
        ''Every case I've ever had has been a heart-stopper,'' Mr. Davis said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1989. ''Those are the only kinds of cases I take.''
        In his first truly major case, the one that established his reputation, Mr. Davis convinced the Supreme Court in 1935 that Tom Mooney, a labor organizer convicted of a bombing in San Francisco that killed 10 people, deserved a new trial. Mr. Mooney had been in San Quentin Prison for 21 years.
        The ruling widened criminal defendants' rights, and led to Gov. Culbert Olson's granting Mr. Mooney an unconditional pardon in 1939. The case became an international sensation.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Davis for five years handled the death penalty appeal of Caryl Chessman, who was executed on May 2, 1960, for robbery, rape and kidnapping, the last of which was then a capital offense. That case provoked worldwide support for the condemned man in a manner reminiscent of Mr. Mooney's.
        The morning after Mr. Chessman's execution, The New York Times reported that Mr. Davis had at almost the last minute persuaded a federal judge to stay the execution for one hour. But the judge's secretary misdialed when she called the warden, and by the time she got through, the warden told her the cyanide pellets had just been dropped.
        Mr. Chessman's goodbye to Mr. Davis thus proved prophetic: ''George, you're shaking hands with a dead man,'' he had said.
        Mr. Davis's last prominent case was the defense of Jim Bakker, the religious broadcaster charged with swindling donors to his PTL organization by diverting money raised for its theme park in South Carolina.
        At the trial in Charlotte, N.C., the lawyer rambled sonorously about Mr. Bakker's divine inspiration; advanced the theory that the devil made him do it; and, when a witness broke down on the stand, nudged his client to hurry up to the witness's side and say a prayer.
        Mr. Bakker was nonetheless convicted of fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud and sentenced to 45 years in federal prison. On appeal, the sentence was reduced to 18 years, of which Mr. Bakker served 5 before being paroled for good behavior.
        Mr. Davis's other clients included Nazi war criminals, a perpetrator of the My Lai massacre in Vietnam, political prisoners, death row inmates and deposed foreign leaders. In 1983, he defended Galileo at a mock retrial held at the Catholic University of America.
        He was also active in Democratic Party politics and ran the Northern California campaigns of Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman.
        Mr. Davis asked for and received permission from Truman when he wanted to argue the appeal of the German industrialist Alfred Krupp, convicted at Nuremburg. Mr. Davis persuaded John J. McCloy, the United States high commissioner for Germany, to cut Mr. Krupp's prison term in half on the argument that Mr. Krupp's father, not the younger man, had been in charge of the family business empire in Nazi Germany.
        Another of Mr. Davis's clients was Benigno S. Aquino Jr., the Philippine opposition leader. Mr. Davis persuaded President Ferdinand Marcos not to execute Mr. Aquino, but to let him leave the country to go to the United States in 1980. When Mr. Aquino returned home three years later, he was shot to death as he stepped from the airplane.
        George Thomas Davis was born in St. Louis on May 29, 1907. His father, a restaurant manager, moved the family to San Francisco, where the boy took up the drums and seriously considered a career as a drummer. Mr. Davis earned a philosophy degree and a law degree from the University of California, Berkeley.
        He worked briefly as a prosecutor for the city and county of San Francisco, then put up his shingle as a criminal defense lawyer in 1932. His pugnaciousness as a young lawyer is suggested by his characterization of police interrogation: ''the law of the rubber hose.''
        Among the legal areas he helped pioneer were the use of hypnosis and sodium pentothal, or ''truth serum.''
        Mr. Davis was married four times, and is survived by his wife, Virginia.
        He relished the spotlight. After securing the release of Mr. Mooney, he marched proudly beside him in a huge parade. He played himself in a 1956 television drama based on one of his cases, starring Tab Hunter and James Garner. He raised cattle on his Hawaiian ranch, played polo, quoted Shakespeare and surfed.
        When, at age 82, Mr. Davis came out of retirement, as he did periodically, in order to represent Mr. Bakker, The Los Angeles Times observed, ''Even at the end of a 12-hour court session he appears as alert as a hawk circling a poultry ranch.''
        Correction:  May 12, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Feb. 19 about George T. Davis, a California criminal lawyer, misstated the year in which the United States Supreme Court considered a habeas corpus petition by a client, Tom Mooney, a labor organizer convicted in a San Francisco bombing that killed 10 people. It was 1934, not 1935. The obituary also misstated the ruling. The court directed that all remedies first be pursued at the state level in California; it did not rule that Mr. Mooney deserved a new trial. (The California Supreme Court did grant a writ of habeas corpus in 1935, and a court-appointed referee determined that the conviction should stand. The governor pardoned Mr. Mooney in 1939.) A reader pointed out the errors by e-mail on April 11; the correction was then delayed by an editing oversight.
      