
        Martin Feinstein, who helped the Kennedy Center in Washington and its resident opera company grow and fill a large, empty niche in the capital's cultural life as executive director of one, then general manager of the other, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 84.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the Washington National Opera, of which he was general manager from 1980 to 1995.
        Mr. Feinstein joined the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1972 after a long association with the illustrious international concert impresario Sol Hurok. He served at the center until 1980 and went on to manage the opera at a time when it gained recognition among opera fans beyond the capital district.
        He was the first executive director of the Kennedy Center, working as deputy to its chairman and chief fund-raiser, Roger L. Stevens. In his eight years at the center, Mr. Stevens presented the center's public face while Mr. Feinstein oversaw its programming, developed a schedule of festivals and arranged for guest appearances by leading soloists and orchestras.
        He then took over as general director of Washington's struggling opera company, overseeing the expansion of its season, bolstering the ranks of its resident artists, adding new productions and bringing in prestigious visiting companies.
        The multitude of contacts he had made in the music world over the years served him well in getting the company's board to increase the budget, and attracting money from corporations. The annual Opera Ball became a Washington society event, as well as a big fund-raiser. Mr. Feinstein used his skills to line up embassies to give large black-tie dinner parties after which the guests would converge on one embassy to drink and dance, with the proceeds going to the opera.
        Under his guidance, the Washington National Opera evolved as a company, shaking off any vestiges of provincialism. With its move into the Kennedy Center, to enjoy the prestige of a new 2,200-seat house, it took root as an integral part of the capital's cultural and institutional scene.
        Opera was a passion with Mr. Feinstein from the days he was a child in New York and used his school lunch money to take in a performance at the long-forgotten Hippodrome. As a boy he sold librettos at the old Metropolitan Opera House. And as he grew up, he combined that love for opera and music with a strong streak of practicality and showmanship, honed in the years he worked for the ubiquitous Hurok organization.
        Martin Feinstein graduated from City College in 1942 and received a master's degree from Wayne State University in Detroit the next year. He joined Hurok Concerts in 1945 as publicity director and was promoted to vice president in 1950. Hurok Concerts was famous for bringing many of the world's best-known artists to the United States and arranging hugely popular tours by performing companies like Igor Moiseyev's troupe of folk dancers and the Kirov and Bolshoi ballets. Mr. Feinstein was responsible for much of the spadework and organization that went into arranging these visits.
        In 1971, he accepted the offer to become deputy to Mr. Stevens at the Kennedy Center.
        Most recently, he was a senior consultant to the University of Maryland Performing Arts Center at College Park, where he also taught as an adjunct professor and in the late 1990's was the artistic director.
        Mr. Feinstein's first marriage, to Ruth Benjamin Feinstein, ended in divorce. His second wife, Bernice Richman Feinstein, died in 1993 after 40 years of marriage. He is survived by his third wife, Marcia Teller Feinstein; two sons and a daughter from his second marriage, John, of Potomac, Md., Robert, of McLean, Va., and Margaret Feinstein of Arlington, Va.; three stepchildren; six grandchildren; a brother, Leonard, of Manhattan; and a sister, Shirley Rubinfeld of Old Westbury, N.Y.
      