
        Reuven Frank, a pioneering television news producer whose career at NBC ran from Huntley and Brinkley (whom he first paired on the evening news in the 1950's) to Tom Brokaw (whom he installed as a solo anchor in the 1980's), died Sunday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey.
        He was 85 and lived in Tenafly, N.J. The cause of death was complications of pneumonia, said a son, James A. Frank.
        In a review of Mr. Frank's 1991 memoir, ''Out of Thin Air: The Brief Wonderful Life of Network News,'' Bill Carter of The New York Times described Mr. Frank as a founding father of broadcast journalism, one of a rarefied few ''who made up the rule book of television news as they went along'' and whose every decision on how to cover a particular event was a precedent.
        But where CBS programs like Edward R. Murrow's ''See It Now'' owed much to radio, Mr. Frank's NBC-TV news programs often seemed to be more directly descended from the newsreels shown as teasers before motion pictures in the days before television.
        Among Mr. Frank's most durable contributions to television news was his emphasis on the nascent medium's basic advantage over radio and newspapers: that it could impart information through a palette of visual techniques.
        ''Pictures are the point of television reporting,'' he once wrote, as recounted in a profile of him posted on the Web site of the Museum of Broadcast Communications.
        He is also credited with helping imprint on the DNA of the earliest television journalists, to say nothing of their descendants, the notion that their nonfiction reports must borrow the most time-tested techniques of good narrative storytelling.
        But Mr. Frank was no mere theorist. He continually put his ideas onto the small screen through programs that became the building blocks of modern television news.
        As an executive producer, he first fused Chet Huntley and David Brinkley as an anchor team for an evening news program (''The Huntley-Brinkley Report'') that lasted 15 minutes when it was first broadcast (in 1956) and had stretched to a half-hour by the time it ended (1970.)
        In his memoir ''Out of Thin Air'' (Simon & Schuster), which Mr. Carter described as ''commendably unself-congratulatory,'' Mr. Frank did note one contribution, however simple, that he had made to the television lexicon: when struggling to find an ending for ''Huntley-Brinkley'' each night, he typed out the words ''Good night, Chet,'' and ''Good night, David.''
        Mr. Frank twice served as president of NBC News. His first term began in 1968, in the final years of ''Huntley-Brinkley,'' and ended in 1973. He was also president of the division from 1982 to 1984, a period that included his selection of Mr. Brokaw as the solo anchor of ''NBC Nightly News'' in 1983.
        Earlier, he had all but drafted the blueprint for how to cover a political convention -- in the days when such gatherings had more in common with a raucous mystery novel than with a rubber stamp -- by sending reporters, microphones in hand, onto the convention floor and then pointing them toward nearby cameras.
        ''Our men are already on the job from coast to coast,'' Mr. Frank said in a news release issued by NBC on June 8, 1960, a month before the Democratic Convention in Los Angeles. ''They'll arrive at the conventions with their own assigned delegations or personalities. And when the conventions get under way, our men will belong to and be an integral part of their assignments.''
        He added, ''It's a kind of aboveboard and perfectly ethical journalistic 'espionage,' if you will.''
        Similarly, Mr. Frank is credited with conceiving the networks' modern approach to election night coverage, with the results often marshaled to support an overall theme.
        Israel Reuven Frank (he later dropped his first name) was born Dec. 7, 1920, in Montreal. His father, Moses, was a journalist and teacher. His mother, Anna, was a homemaker.
        Mr. Frank attended University College of the University of Toronto from 1937 to 1940. But it was only after he left Canada for the United States that he earned a bachelor's degree, in social science, from the City College of New York, in 1942. Mr. Frank later enrolled in the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University, but his studies were interrupted by service in the United States Army from 1943 to 1946. The highest rank he attained was sergeant. Among his postings was France.
        Upon returning to the United States, Mr. Frank married Bernice Kaplow on June 9, 1946. Mrs. Frank, a longtime librarian in Tenafly, survives him, along with two sons, Peter Frank of Los Angeles, and James A. of Manhattan; two grandsons; and a sister, Devora Wagenberg of Fort Lee, N.J.
        Mr. Frank worked briefly as a reporter, rewrite man and night city editor at The Evening News in Newark before joining NBC News in 1950. His first job was as a writer on the ''Camel News Caravan,'' the network's first 15-minute evening news program.
        Among the award-winning documentaries he also produced along the way was ''The Tunnel,'' a ''fly on the wall'' account of the escape of 59 East Berliners through a tunnel dug underneath the Berlin Wall. The United States State Department tried to keep the program off the air, for reasons that, as Mr. Frank described in his memoir, remained something of a mystery.
        In person, Mr. Frank was wise and thoughtful, but with a dry sense of humor -- much like Mr. Brinkley's, Mr. Brokaw said. In his later years, Mr. Frank, who could be a tough critic of what he watched on television, also remained in touch with those, like Mr. Brokaw, whose careers and approach to journalism he had helped mold.
        Mr. Brokaw said in an interview yesterday that he last heard from Mr. Frank in December, in a typically succinct e-mail message, after NBC had broadcast Mr. Brokaw's prime-time documentary ''To War and Back.''
        ''Tom: Stunning,'' the message had read. ''Reuven.''
        ''That,'' said Mr. Brokaw, ''was all I needed to hear.''
        Correction:  February 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Reuven Frank, former president of NBC News and a pioneering producer, referred incorrectly to his surviving grandchildren. They are a grandson and a granddaughter, not two grandsons.
      