
        Ray Barretto, a percussionist who helped define the role of the conga drum in jazz and became an influential figure in both jazz and Latin music during a career spanning more than 50 years, died yesterday at the Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 76 and lived in Norwood, N.J.
        The cause was heart failure, said Brandy Barretto, his wife of 28 years.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Barretto insisted on being considered a full-fledged jazz musician, as opposed to strictly a Latin player or a product of the hybrid known as Latin jazz. His success made a particular impact among Puerto Ricans in New York.
        ''Ray was like the quintessential Nuyorican,'' said Bobby Sanabria, a percussionist and educator who said he considered Mr. Barretto a mentor. ''For us in our community, he was a shining example of how somebody from humble beginnings can rise and achieve greatness.''
        Mr. Barretto was the author of a subtle and responsive style of conga playing intended to complement the standard jazz rhythm section of piano, bass and drums. His distinctive approach is more or less in place even on one of his earliest recordings as a sideman, a 1958 album called ''Manteca'' (Prestige) by the pianist Red Garland.
        Yet it was the collision of jazz with Afro-Cuban music in the 1940's -- and especially the original ''Manteca,'' written by Dizzy Gillespie and Chano Pozo -- that propelled Mr. Barretto down his musical path. Born in Brooklyn to Puerto Rican parents and raised mainly in the South Bronx, he spent his childhood absorbing equal portions of jazz and Latin music from the radio: Duke Ellington and Benny Goodman, as well as Arsenio Rodriguez and Machito. It all came together powerfully in the music of Gillespie with Pozo, which he heard in his late teens as an Army soldier stationed in Munich with occupation forces.
        Mr. Barretto returned to New York just shy of 20 and soon bought a cheap Cuban conga drum at a bakery on 116th Street in Spanish Harlem. Before long, he was sitting in at jam sessions with the prime architects of bebop, including Gillespie and Charlie Parker. He also came to the attention of Latin bandleaders: he played for four years with the Cuban pianist José Curbelo and then for another four with Tito Puente. His first recording credit was on a popular Puente album, ''Dance Mania'' (RCA), from 1958.
        By 1960, Mr. Barretto was the house percussionist for the Prestige, Blue Note and Riverside labels. He had his first session as a leader in 1961, for Riverside. His next record, ''Charanga Moderna,'' on the label Tico, featured a song called ''El Watusi'' that capitalized on a contemporary dance craze and became a hit, the first Latin tune to enter the Billboard Top 20.
        Mr. Barretto continued to work as a jazz session man in the 1960's and beyond, contributing to albums by the guitarists Wes Montgomery, Kenny Burrell and George Benson, the saxophonists Lou Donaldson and Sonny Stitt, the trumpeter Freddie Hubbard and the multi-reedist Yusef Lateef, among many others. He had the honor of being one of the most extensively recorded conga players in jazz.
        As a solo artist, he never had another hit along the lines of ''El Watusi,'' but his career as a bandleader was considerable, touching on not only the charanga style but also the horn-oriented conjunto and other variations. In 1967 he joined the early roster of Fania Records, the New York salsa label, where he remained for years. His 1979 album for the label, ''Rican/Struction,'' is widely considered a classic of the genre.
        Mr. Barretto won a Grammy Award for best tropical Latin performance in 1990, for a duet with the singer Celia Cruz, ''Ritmo en el Corazon.'' In 1992 he turned back toward small-group jazz, forming a band called New World Spirit and enlisting some of the finest talent in New York. He won the Down Beat critics poll for percussion in 2003 and 2005, and his most recent album, ''Time Was -- Time Is'' (O+ Music), was nominated for a Grammy this year.
        He received his highest honor last month, when the National Endowment for the Arts gave him its Jazz Masters Award, a distinction for lifetime achievement. He accepted the award at an induction ceremony in New York on Jan. 13, and suffered a heart attack two days later. He had quadruple bypass surgery on Jan. 20 and follow-up open-heart surgery on Jan. 29.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Barretto is survived by his sons, Christopher, Raun and Ray; his daughter, Kelly; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 28, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary of the jazz and Latin percussionist Ray Barretto on Feb. 18 misidentified the town where he lived at his death. It is Warwick, N.Y., not Norwood, N.J.
      