
        Darren McGavin, an actor with hundreds of television, movie and theatrical credits to his name, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 83.
        The cause of his death, which was reported to The Associated Press by his son Bogart, was not announced, nor was the precise location, identified only as a Los Angeles area hospital.
        Among the television roles with which Mr. McGavin was most closely identified were Mike Hammer, Mickey Spillane's tough-talking New York detective, and Carl Kolchak, the cynical newspaper reporter in the horror series ''Kolchak: The Night Stalker,'' which had a short run but became a cult classic.
        Mr. McGavin was not particularly proud of Mike Hammer, describing him to a reporter in 1968 as ''a dummy.'' ''I made 72 of those shows and I thought it was a comedy,'' he said. ''In fact I played it camp. He was the kind of guy who would have waved the flag for George Wallace.''
        Spanning almost seven decades, his versatile career took him from ''Macbeth'' to ''Marcus Welby M.D.'' He played General George S. Patton in the television biography ''Ike'' and appeared recently in ''The ''X Files,'' a show said to have been inspired by ''The Night Stalker.'' He won an Emmy Award in 1990 for playing Candice Bergen's father in ''Murphy Brown.'' He also was the voice for a time on Budweiser's ''This Bud's for You'' commercials.
        His childhood is an enigma. Born in San Joaquin, Calif., he told TV Guide in 1973 that his parents disappeared and that he spent his teenage years living in warehouses in Tacoma, Wash., eluding the police and social workers.
        He attended the College of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif., for a year before moving on to Hollywood. He also studied at the Neighborhood Playhouse under the legendary acting coach Sanford Meisner and at the Actors Studio.
        According to The Associated Press, his career started after he was hired at Columbia Pictures as a dishwasher and a painter. He was painting a movie set in 1945 when he learned of an opening for a small role in the film ''A Song to Remember.''
        ''I climbed off a painter's ladder and washed up at a nearby gas station,'' he later recalled. Hired by the director Charles Vidor, he returned through Columbia's front gate. No one recognized him but the paint crew foreman, who promptly fired him. The role was a Polish peasant with one line.
        Mr. McGavin went on to more substantial roles in movies including ''Summertime''; ''The Man With the Golden Arm,'' in which he played Frank Sinatra's drug dealer; ''The Court Martial of Billy Mitchell''; and ''A Christmas Story.''
        He also acted on Broadway and off in plays including ''Death of a Salesman,'' ''The Rainmaker'' and ''The King and I.''
        He and his first wife, Melanie York, were divorced in 1969. That year he married Kathie Browne, who died in 2003. He is survived by four children from his first marriage, York, Megan, Bridget and Bogart.
      