
        Benno Besson, a disciple of Bertolt Brecht who became one of the most admired stage directors in Europe, died on Feb. 16 in a Berlin hospital. He was 83.
        Mr. Besson died after a long illness, said one of his daughters, Katharina Thalbach, a noted German actress and director.
        Mr. Besson met Brecht in 1947 and joined his Berliner Ensemble in 1949. For a time he was known as ''the little B. B.,'' a testament to his closeness with Brecht. A Marxist, Mr. Besson was based in East Berlin until the late 1970's, although as a Swiss citizen he was free to direct throughout Europe. In Berlin he led both the Deutsches Theater (Max Reinhardt's old theater) and the Volksbühne am Rosa-Luxembourg-Platz.
        ''Brecht was the opposite of dogmatic,'' Mr. Besson recalled in a New York Times interview in 2001. ''He helped me to do what I wanted to do.'' Never overtly political in his work, Mr. Besson adopted a popularly engaging style, influenced by circus and street theater. He once said he sought ''a theater of sensuousness that pleases the public and fuses the spirit and the body.''
        Mr. Besson's successes were many: a production in 1962 of ''Peace,'' an antiwar play by Aristophanes, counted as his breakthrough to the top ranks of East German directors; only Walter Felsenstein at the Komische Oper surpassed him in international renown. Fantastical productions of ''The Dragon,'' by Yevgeny Schwartz, and ''Oedipus the Tyrant'' (Sophocles via Hölderlin and Heiner Müller) sealed his reputation, as did innumerable productions he led by Brecht and Molière.
        Born on Nov. 4, 1922, in Yverdon, Switzerland, Mr. Besson was educated in Zurich and spent time from 1942 in Lyon as part of the French resistance, working politically and theatrically with Jean-Marie Serreau (the father of his third wife, Coline Serreau, the actress and director) and later with him and Jean Vilar in the Théâtre Nationale Populaire.
        After his nearly three decades in East Berlin, Mr. Besson tired of the grimness of the East German regime and worked mostly in the West, including the Avignon Festival in France, Geneva and Paris.
        In his later years he ventured for the first time into opera, with productions of Mozart's ''Zauberflöte'' in Geneva and in Paris and of Prokofiev's ''Love for Three Oranges'' in Venice and in Düsseldorf/Duisburg. He returned to Berlin in 1992 for a production of ''Rabbit, Rabbit,'' a play by Ms. Serreau, who survives him.
        Mr. Besson was the center of a European-wide extended theatrical family. In the Berlin staging of ''Rabbit, Rabbit,'' his second wife, Ursula Karusseit, played the mother. The young hero was portrayed by Ms. Thalbach, his daughter from his first marriage, to the Brecht actress Sabine Thalbach, who died in 1966. Three other actors are among his survivors: two sons by Ms. Serreau, Pierre and Philippe, and a granddaughter, Anna Thalbach, Katharina's daughter.
      