
       Flora Rheta Schreiber, the author of ''Sybil,'' a best-selling book about a woman with multiple personalities, and ''Shoemaker,'' a portrait of a Philadelphia murderer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 70 years old.
        Flora Rheta Schreiber, the author of ''Sybil,'' a best-selling book about a woman with multiple personalities, and ''Shoemaker,'' a portrait of a Philadelphia murderer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 70 years old.
        Miss Schreiber, a professor of English and speech at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, first gained renown with ''Sybil,'' her 1973 case study chronicling the life and psychoanalysis of a woman with 16 clinically distinct personalities. The book became a best seller and was turned into a two-part NBC television movie in 1976.
        Because of her studies of the psychological origins of criminality, Miss Schreiber became interested in writing about Joseph Kallinger, a shoemaker who killed three people in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. She interviewed him in jail in 1976, saying that a book about the murderer would show that ''it's even more important to prevent the development of psychosis that leads to crime than to get tough with criminals after the event.''
        Like ''Sybil,'' the new book by Miss Schreiber provoked considerable controversy. After ''Shoemaker'' was published in 1983, she was sued by the family of one of Kallinger's victims under a so-called Son of Sam law in New Jersey that required that money owed to a criminal or his representatives as a result of his crimes go to the victims. A Superior Court ruled that not only the 12.5 percent promised to Mr. Kallinger but also money earned by Miss Schreiber and her publisher, Simon & Schuster, be paid to the victim's family.
        Publishers called the ruling a violation of First Amendment rights of free speech, and an appellate panel reversed the decision, ruling that the law applied only to payments received by the criminal.
        Before teaching at John Jay College, Miss Schreiber taught for many years at the New School for Social Research and at Adelphi College. She specialized in children's speech and wrote a 1956 manual for parents called ''Your Child's Speech.'' She was a theater critic in the 1940's and later contributed to many magazines and published several short stories.
        Miss Schreiber had no immediate survivors.
      