
       Christina Onassis, the head of a family business empire and stepdaughter of Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis, died of a heart attack while visiting friends in Argentina yesterday, according to local news reports from Buenos Aires. She was 37 years old.
        Christina Onassis, the head of a family business empire and stepdaughter of Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis, died of a heart attack while visiting friends in Argentina yesterday, according to local news reports from Buenos Aires. She was 37 years old.
        The reports said Ms. Onassis had been staying with childhood friends at an exclusive country club outside the Argentine capital. Her father, Aristotle Onassis, laid the foundation of his self-made fortune in shipping, real estate and high finance in Argentina and was a dual citizen of that country and Greece.
        Mr. Onassis died in 1975 in France and his daughter and only surviving child was left in charge of the Onassis Group, with assets then variously estimated at $500 million to $1 billion, most of it in shipping. Forbes magazine, citing a worldwide slump in that industry, reported in 1987 that the figure probably had shrunk to $250 million or less.
        Mr. Onassis' two major shipping companies were Springfield Shipping of New York City and Olympic Maritime of Monte Carlo.
        A native New Yorker, Ms. Onassis gave up her American citizenship. She learned about business and finance in the New York offices of her father, beginning as a 20-year-old secretary. After his death, she gradually strengthened her hold over the Onassis Group, although some questions remained in the late 1970's as to just how much control she exerted and how much she left to day-to-day managers.
        One of the world's richest women, Miss Onassis was no stranger to personal misfortune. There was the death of her only brother, Alexander, in a private-plane crash in 1973. She herself went through four much-publicized marriages and divorces. Churchill and Callas
        The social life on ''Ari'' Onassis' 325-foot yacht, named Christina, was legendary and included the likes of Winston Churchill and the soprano Maria Callas. In fact, Mr. Onassis was romantically linked with Miss Callas when his own marriage to the former Athina (Tina) Livanos, another shipping heiress, broke up in 1959.
        Tina Onassis eventually was remarried to her former husband's arch rival, Stavros Niarchos. And Ari Onassis, in 1968, married Mrs. Kennedy, the widow of President John F. Kennedy, whom he first met in 1963.
        Christina Onassis defied her father in 1971 by marrying Joseph Bolker, a millionaire home builder and real-estate man, A divorced father of four, he was 27 years her senior and the union broke up within months, apparently at the insistence of her father.
        Her next marriage, strongly promoted by her father, took place shortly after his death. Her second husband was Alexander Andreadis, a Greek shipping and banking heir. It, too, lasted only 14 months.
        Miss Onassis' third marriage, in Moscow in 1978 to Sergei Kauzov, a Soviet shipping agent, again made front-page headlines, as did her flight to Greece a few days later and their separation in 1979. Marries Frenchman
        She married a French businessman, Thierry Roussel, in 1984 and had a daughter with him, Athina, the following January. They filed for divorce eight months later.
        Ms. Onassis was said to have never felt close to her stepmother. Friends in Athens said Mr. Onassis was thinking of divorcing the former Mrs. Kennedy at the time of his death and had intended to limit a divorce settlement to $3 million rather than the $250,000 a year provided in his will.
        The reports of a forthcoming divorce were denied by Christina, who in 1977 was said to have made a much more generous multi-million settlement in return for which Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis dropped all further claims against the estate.
      