
       Prince Mohammed Ibn Abdel-Aziz, the eldest surviving brother of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia and a warrior who fought in pivotal battles with his father, the founder of the Saudi kingdom, died yesterday in Riyadh. He was 80 years old.
        Prince Mohammed Ibn Abdel-Aziz, the eldest surviving brother of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia and a warrior who fought in pivotal battles with his father, the founder of the Saudi kingdom, died yesterday in Riyadh. He was 80 years old.
        The Prince's death was proclaimed to the country by the Royal Court. A burial was scheduled for today.
        Prince Mohammed was known as ''the maker of kings'' because he twice appeared to have passed up the throne in favor of two of his younger half-brothers, King Faisal and King Khalid.
        But another theory was that he had been told as early as 1964 that he would never ascend because of his reported addiction to alcohol, which is forbidden under the strictures of the Koran.
        He was called Abu Al-Sharrain, which means father of two evils, because of his temper and his alcoholism.
        Under the Saudi system, a new King is selected from among the royal heirs by a family committee. Prince Mohammed gained a reputation as a fearsome warrior in the 30-year period of battles led by his father, King Abdel-Aziz Ibn Saud, that resulted in the forging of the Saudi kingdom in 1932.
        In 1977, Prince Mohammed ordered the execution of one of his granddaughters and her husband after they defied a royal order calling for the granddaughter, Princess Mishael, to marry a man selected by the family.
        The couple were accused of adultery, punishable by death under Saudi law.
        Princess Mishael was shot in Jiddah as her husband, Khalid Muhallal, watched. He was then beheaded, news accounts said.
        The executions caused a stir in the West and were the subject of a British television movie, ''The Death of a Princess,'' broadcast in 1980. King Khalid, Saudi Arabia's ruler at the time, was said to have offered $11 million to the network to suppress the film.
      