
       Haywood S. Hansell Jr., who commanded American strategic bombing of Germany and Japan in World War II as an Army Air Force major general after being a stunt flier in his youth, died Monday at Hilton Head Hospital in South Carolina of heart failure brought on by pulmonary edema.
        Haywood S. Hansell Jr., who commanded American strategic bombing of Germany and Japan in World War II as an Army Air Force major general after being a stunt flier in his youth, died Monday at Hilton Head Hospital in South Carolina of heart failure brought on by pulmonary edema.
        Born in Fort Monroe, Va., the son of an Army doctor, he spent his early years in China, where his father was stationed. After earning a mechanical engineering degree from Georgia Institute of Technology in 1924, he went to work as a boilermaker's helper for a California manufacturer and became chief engineer in four years.
        He joined the Army in 1928 ''temporarily, to learn to fly,'' as he later said, but soon became a stunt pilot. He barnstormed with the Air Corps Aerobatic and Demonstration team known as ''The Men on the Flying Trapeze.'' The team was led by Claire Chennault, who later would command American forces in China.
        After the United States entered World War II, he was sent to England as a planner on the staff of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. He became a brigadier general in 1942 and went on air raids in B-17 Flying Fortresses over the Continent as commander of bombardment wings of the Eighth Air Force. He soon was named to command the First Bombardment Division. Shifted to the Pacific
        In 1944 he was assigned to the Pacific as chief of staff to Gen. Henry H. (Hap) Arnold, commander of the 20th Air Force. General Hansell later commanded the 21st Bomber Group, flying B-29 Superfortresses from Saipan and Guam on the first raids over Tokyo and other cities on Japan's home islands.
        General Hansell retired in 1946 but was recalled to active duty five years later for the Korean conflict. He headed the Air Force's military assistance program and later advised the Joint Chiefs of Staff on evaluating weapons systems.
        Retired from military service again in 1955, he went to work for the General Electric Company, eventually becoming head of its subsidiary in the Netherlands, a post he held until 1967.
        He continued to lecture and to write and was the author of two books on air strategy in World War II. On Monday, when he was fatally stricken, he was preparing to leave for Toronto to deliver a speech. Many Military Decorations
        Among General Hansell's decorations were the Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star, the Legion of Merit and the Distinguished Flying Cross. He also received the Order of the British Empire in the grade of honorary commander and, from the Italian Government, the Order of Merit of the Republic.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Rogers; two sons, Col. Haywood S. Hansell 3d of San Antonio and Dennett R. Hansell of Peachtree City, Ga.; a daughter, Lucia Rose of San Francisco; a sister, Susan Vance of Gloucester, Va., and six grandchildren.
        He will be buried with military honors Friday at the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs.
      