
       Howard Jeffrey, a film producer who had also choreographed for Broadway shows and movies, died of AIDS Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 53 years old.
        Howard Jeffrey, a film producer who had also choreographed for Broadway shows and movies, died of AIDS Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 53 years old.
        Trained as a ballet dancer, Mr. Jeffrey became Jerome Robbins's chief assistant on Broadway shows, including ''West Side Story.'' ''He assisted in the choreography and was one of the most supportive people I have had to work with on a production,'' Mr. Robbins said on Monday.
        Mr. Jeffrey was born in Philadelphia and became a child actor on radio after his family moved to Los Angeles. After dancing with American Ballet Theater, he joined the Ballet Alicia Alonso. Worked on 'West Side Story'
        Mr. Jeffrey worked with Mr. Robbins's company, Ballets: U.S.A., and on ''West Side Story'' in the late 1950's, supervising the dancing in the show's touring companies and in the movie version.
        Shortly afterward, he worked as Herbert Ross's assistant for musical numbers in ''Inside Daisy Clover.'' He was an assistant to Gene Kelly in ''Hello, Dolly!'' and choreographer for Vincente Minnelli's ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever.''
        Mr. Jeffrey also worked with Barbra Streisand, with whom he had danced in ''Funny Lady.'' He staged nightclub acts for Debbie Reynolds and Anthony Newley, and was the choreographer for the Broadway show ''Georgy Girl.''
        Mr. Jeffrey became a film producer after serving as assistant producer for ''The Turning Point,'' ''The Seven Percent Solution'' and ''Nijinsky.'' Among the films he produced were ''Looker,'' starring Albert Finney; ''Divine Madness'' and ''Jinxed,'' starring Bette Midler, and ''To Be or Not to Be,'' starring Mel Brooks and Anne Bancroft. He also produced for television.
        A memorial service is to be held in New York on Nov. 18 at 890 Broadway, between 19th and 20th Streets, at 1:30 P.M.
      