
       Charles G. Sammons, a billionaire and philanthropist, died Saturday at St. Paul Medical Center. He was 90 years old.
        Charles G. Sammons, a billionaire and philanthropist, died Saturday at St. Paul Medical Center. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Sammons was chairman of the board of Sammons Enterprises Inc., a conglomerate of insurance, cable television, travel, industrial supply and bottled-water companies.
        Unlike most billionaires, he did not inherit his wealth and he never went to college. In September, Forbes magazine estimated Mr. Sammons's personal wealth at $1.3 billion.
        Born in 1898 in what is now Oklahoma, Mr. Sammons was orphaned at the age of 11, and then lived with an aunt in Plano, Texas, near Dallas. First Company at 19 Years Old
        He started a grain and hay business when he was 19. In 1928, he entered the insurance business and 10 years later formed the Reserve Life Insurance Co., wich became the basis for his fortune.
        He diversified his economic interests, forming Sammons Enterprises in 1962.
        Mr. Sammons, who rarely gave interviews, did explain his success in a 1959 interview with The Dallas Morning News. ''Having no particular skill and no college training, I figured the only way I could get ahead was to get other people to work for me,'' he said.
        Robert Korba, president of Sammons Enterprises, said, ''I knew him to be a consummate entrepreneur, a person who literally until the day he died was seeking and urging his executives to expand and to grow in their businesses.'' Backed Cancer Institute
        Mr. Sammons was active in Dallas civic and charitable organizations and was a benefactor to health care and arts institutions. He was a major donor to the Baylor University Medical Center, giving the institution the money that purchased its first cobalt machine for cancer treatment. In 1976, he gave $1 million to the center to start a cancer institute. A year later it opened as the Charles G. Sammons Tumor Institute and Radiation Center.
        Mr. Sammons' first wife, Rosine, died in 1962. He is survived by his second wife, Elaine Sammons of Dallas; a daughter, Mary Anne Cree of Dallas, and grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        A funeral service was scheduled for Tuesday.
      