
       Raymond A. Dart, the anatomist who in 1924 revolutionized the study of human origins with his discovery of an early human fossil in Africa, died yesterday in Johannesburg. He was 95 years old.
        Raymond A. Dart, the anatomist who in 1924 revolutionized the study of human origins with his discovery of an early human fossil in Africa, died yesterday in Johannesburg. He was 95 years old.
        Phillip V. Tobias, A longtime colleague in paleoanthropology, or the study of ancient man, said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg that Dr. Dart died of complications from a cerebral hemorrhage that he suffered a few weeks ago.
        The skull was the first early human fossil found in Africa. With his find, Dr. Dart upset orthodox scientific thinking, inspired the extensive searches for the ''missing link'' between apes and humans throughout Africa and was the forerunner of some of the most illustrious fossil hunters on that continent, like Dr. Tobias, the Leakey family and Donald Johanson.
        The skull, commonly called the Taung child, was found embedded in rock at a mine near Taung, a village 400 miles southwest of Johannesburg. When Dr. Dart, an anatomy professor at the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, chipped away the rock, he exposed the nearly complete skull of a 3-year-old child. Scorn at First
        Although its braincase was not human-sized, Dr. Dart, as an expert on the brain, recognized that its shape displayed human characteristics. The aperture through which the spinal cord leaves the braincase implied that the creature had walked on two legs, not four.
        Dr. Dart's announcement of the discovery met with widespread skepticism and even scorn among most scientists. Nearly all theories of human origins then, though based on little or no hard evidence, assumed that the birthplace of mankind would be found in Asia, not Africa. Other scientists felt that a single skull, and of a child at that, was insufficient to support Dr. Dart's claim of having found the missing link between apes and humans.
        In the announcement, made in February 1925, Dr. Dart said the creature had a mixture of apelike and humanlike features, but was more human than ape. He called the species to which the creature had belonged Australopithecus africanus, meaning southern ape from Africa. Subsequent research indicated that these creatures lived three million to two million years ago.
        Vindication came to Dr. Dart slowly and not until a succession of spectacular fossil discoveries by Louis Leakey, working in East Africa after World War II, firmly established the African genesis of early humans. 'I Wasn't in a Hurry'
        Three years ago, at a celebration of his 92d birthday and the 60th anniversary of the Taung discovery, Dr. Dart said: ''You know, I was never bitter about how I was treated back in 1925. I knew people wouldn't believe me. I wasn't in a hurry.''
        Dr. Tobias, who is Dr. Dart's successor as anatomy professor at Witwatersrand, said yesterday, ''It was wonderful that he lived long enough to see his claims recognized and vindicated.''
        Dr. Dart had not set out to be a paleoanthropologist. Nor had he gone to South Africa with the intention of searching for human origins.
        Raymond Arthur Dart was born Feb. 4, 1893, in Australia. He studied biology at the University of Brisbane and earned a medical degree from the University of Sydney, intending to be a medical missionary in China. But World War I intervened, and after he served with the Australian army in France, he joined the anatomy department at University College in London. The Reluctant Professor
        In 1922, on the advice of his scientific mentors in London, Dr. Dart reluctantly moved to South Africa to take the newly created position of anatomy professor at the University of Witwatersrand Medical School. He became dean of the medical school in 1926.
        Although his specialty was neuroanatomy, Dr. Dart had become fascinated with anthropology while working in London with Grafton Elliot Smith, the eminent British anatomist and anthropologist who helped reconstruct the Piltdown skull, which was later discredited as a fraud. When Dr. Dart arrived in South Africa, he urged his students to look for fossil bones and skulls. As a result, he received a horde of fossils from the Taung area.
        A miner there, who took an interest in fossil hunting, actually found the rocks containing the famous skull and other early human fossils. The Taung skull is now kept at the Transvaal Museum in Pretoria.
        Most of Dr. Dart's work was done in the laboratory, but after World War II he led expeditions that opened up the major fossil site of Makapansgat in the Transvaal. Discoveries there led him to develop theories of how early human ancestors had fashioned tools out of bone before they learned to make them from stone. A Dynamic Teacher
        ''This theory never gained general support,'' Dr. Tobias said. ''But it did force people to examine what happens to bones after death.''
        Associates described the short, thick-set Dr. Dart as a man of tremendous energy. Former students remembered him as an animated lecturer, illustrating with his own body the walk of a crocodile and dangling from ceiling pipes to show how apes moved.
        Dr. Dart retired from the university 30 years ago, but continued to teach as a visiting professor at the Institute for the Study of Human Potential in Philadelphia. Besides his many scholarly publications, he wrote his autobiography, ''Adventures With the Missing Link,'' in collaboration with Dennis Craig.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marjorie Gordon Frew; a daughter, Dr. Diana Graham of Tampa, Fla., and a son, Galen Dart, in South Africa.
      