
       Dr. Hollis L. Caswell, president of Teachers College of Columbia University from 1954 to 1962, died of pneumonia on Tuesday at the retirement community of Samarkand in Santa Barbara, Calif., where he had lived since 1972. He was 87 years old. Dr. Caswell, who became Marshall Field Jr. Professor of Education at the college after stepping down as president, retired in 1967.
        Dr. Hollis L. Caswell, president of Teachers College of Columbia University from 1954 to 1962, died of pneumonia on Tuesday at the retirement community of Samarkand in Santa Barbara, Calif., where he had lived since 1972. He was 87 years old. Dr. Caswell, who became Marshall Field Jr. Professor of Education at the college after stepping down as president, retired in 1967. He was the fifth president of the 101-year-old institution and had served on the faculty for nearly three decades. A 1929 graduate of the college, he was its dean for five years before assuming the presidency.
        In the years after World War II, Dr. Caswell opposed efforts to develop a standard national curriculum for public schools, arguing instead for more differentiation in teaching methods. He called for strengthening university centers that influence curriculums and teacher training. Outspoken on Education
        He was frequently outspoken on educational subjects and did not shun controversy. In 1958, in a speech at a conference in Albany, he welcomed citizen interest in schools but opposed participation by people who were not educators in planning curriculums.
        ''What should be taught in American history,'' he said, ''should not be left up to historians and not to citizens' committees.''
        Dr. Caswell also disputed campaigns to do away with some of the so-called frills in education, contending, for example, that driver training was worthwhile because it cut accidents and that the draft in World War II had taught that ''physical education wasn't a frill either.''
        In the two decades before his retirement, Dr. Caswell was a principal editorial adviser to the World Book Encyclopedia, published by Field Enterprises. He also was a consultant to many state education departments and municipal school systems and held a number of high positions in national educational organizations, including the National Education Association and the American Council on Education. Author of Textbooks
        He wrote several books on curriculum planning, including ''Education in the Elementary School,'' published in 1942, and ''Program-Making in Small Elementary Schools,'' published in 1930. With Doak S. Campbell, he wrote two standard textbooks, ''Curriculum Development'' in 1935 and ''Readings in Curriculum Development'' in 1937.
        Hollis Leland Caswell was born in Woodruff, Kans., on Oct. 22, 1901, a descendant of homesteaders. He went to a rural school in western Kansas and attended Kansas State College for two years before transferring to the University of Nebraska, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1922.
        Planning to go to law school, he took a temporary job teaching at the high school in Auburn, Neb. But when he was appointed principal at the age of 21, he gave up his ambition to become a lawyer and devoted his full energies to teaching. After two years in Auburn, he was named superintendent of schools in Syracuse, Neb.
        In 1926 he enrolled in Teachers College, earning a master's degree the following year and a doctorate in 1929. A Teacher in Nashville
        That same year Dr. Caswell joined the faculty of George Peabody College in Nashville, now affiliated with Vanderbilt University, and rose to become a full professor before he returned to Teachers College nine years later to head its department of curriculum and teaching and to direct its division of instruction.
        After World War II Dr. Caswell made a study of educational reforms in Bavaria for the United States Army of Occupation. He received many awards during his career, including the John Dewey Society Award in 1973 and the American Educational Research Association Award in 1981.
        Dr. Caswell is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Allen; two sons, Hollis, of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Allen, of Oneonta, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      