
       John N. Mitchell, President Nixon's Attorney General who was jailed for his role in the Watergate scandals, died this evening at George Washington University Hospital after suffering a heart attack on a sidewalk in Georgetown. He was 75 years old.
        John N. Mitchell, President Nixon's Attorney General who was jailed for his role in the Watergate scandals, died this evening at George Washington University Hospital after suffering a heart attack on a sidewalk in Georgetown. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Mitchell, the nation's only Attorney General to be imprisoned, was the last of 25 Watergate defendants to go to prison, serving 19 months for conspiracy, obstruction of justice and lying under oath. He left prison in 1979 and was disbarred. The scandal forced President Nixon to resign in 1974.
        In 1968, Mr. Mitchell, a municipal bond specialist and senior partner in Mr. Nixon's old Manhattan law firm, headed the Nixon election campaign. 'I Am a Law-Enforcement Officer'
        When he took over the Justice Department in 1969, Mr. Mitchell said, ''I am first and foremost a law-enforcement officer.''
        Almost immediately, he embarked on a series of activities that the courts would later hold to be in violation of the Constitution. At first, they were directed chiefly against foes of the Vietnam War and black militants, then against officials and journalists suspected of leaking damaging information, finally against politicians from George Wallace to George McGovern who were deemed threatening to what was seen as the precarious position of Mr. Nixon.
        On Jan. 27, 1972, a project to cripple these foes by muggings, kidnapping, sabotage, blackmail and burglary was unveiled in the office of the Attorney General of the United States.
        This included breaking into the Democratic National Committee offices in the Watergate complex in Washington to photograph documents and plant microphones. After a first break-in produced no satisfactory data, a second was ordered.
        This one was botched, and the burglars were arrested. Through a series of extraordinary developments and the dedication of a few investigators, a cover-up of the break-in came apart, and the Nixon Administration went down.
        Never, before the press, before a Senate hearing and on the witness stand in his own defense, would Mr. Mitchell implicate the President. Cool and tough to the end, he saw his marriage and his career destroyed, and went to prison for conspiracy, obstruction of justice and perjury. He remained loyal to Richard M. Nixon, for whom, he said, he had done it all.
        He was a tall man, athletic (he had played semiprofessional hockey in his youth) with high forehead, strong nose, thin lips and small eyes under bushy brows. ''Big John'' was regarded as the strong man in the first Nixon Administration. Many thought him cold and taciturn, but his protege, Jeb Stuart Magruder, called him ''a father figure'' to the younger men around him, and his wife, Martha, said he was ''soft, sweet, warm and cuddly.'' Had Happy Childhood
        Born in Detroit on Sept. 15, 1913, the son of Joseph C. and Margaret McMahon Mitchell, John Newton Mitchell grew up in Blue Point and Patchogue, L.I., and Queens. He recalled his childhood as a happy one, filled with swimming, fishing, baseball and hockey.
        After graduation from Jamaica High School and Fordham University Law School, Mr. Mitchell, in 1938, joined the firm of Caldwell & Raymond, which specialized in the highly political area of municipal and state bond financing.
        For Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1960, Mr. Mitchell devised ''moral obligation'' bonds of the Housing Finance Agency, again to avoid the referendum that would have been required for ''full faith and credit'' obligations of the state. Knew Kennedy Slightly
        As a naval officer in World War II, Mr. Mitchell had commanded squadrons of torpedo boats, one of which was skippered by John F. Kennedy. But their acquaintance was slight, and did not last. Mr. Mitchell took up very quickly with another future President, however, when his law firm merged with Mr. Nixon's on Jan. 1, 1967, to become Nixon, Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander & Mitchell.
        Late that year, Mr. Nixon persuaded his new partner to become his campaign manager.
        ''I did it,'' Mr. Mitchell said, ''because I believed in the cause and the individual.''
        Mrs. Mitchell, the former Martha Beall Jennings, was an attractive, plump blonde often described as ''a southern belle,'' ebullient, unpredictable and outspoken in the accent of her native Pine Bluff, Ark. The Mitchells had been married in 1957, after divorcing their first spouses. He had two children, she one. They had a daughter, Martha, in 1961. Closest Political Adviser
        In an early sample of the ''dirty tricks'' that would later mark the 1971-72 campaign, Mr. Mitchell approved a $10,000 subsidy to employ an American Nazi faction in a bizarre effort to get Governor Wallace off the ballot in California. The move failed.
        From the outset, the new Attorney General strove to suppress what many Americans saw as major threats to their safety: urban crime, black unrest, war resistance. He called for ''no-knock'' entry and no-warrant frisking and wiretapping, preventive detention, the use of Federal troops to repress crime in the capital, a ''restructured'' Supreme Court and a slowdown in school desegregation.
        ''This country is going so far to the right you won't recognize it,'' he told a reporter.
        Peace demonstrations alarmed and infuriated the President and his Attorney General. Mrs. Mitchell said one of them, in late 1969, reminded her husband of the Russian Revolution.
        In one of the earliest of Martha Mitchell's famous interviews, in 1969, she said: ''As my husband has said many times some of the liberals in this country, he'd like to take them and change them for Russian Communists.'' Nominations Rejected
        Mr. Mitchell was widely credited with the nominations of Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. and G. Harrold Carswell to the Supreme Court. Both jurists were rejected by the Senate as unfit.
        Mrs. Mitchell, who had actively lobbied among wives of Senators, now telephoned The Arkansas Gazette and said: ''I want you to crucify Fulbright,'' referring to former Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas. To suggestions that she might be embarrassing her husband with these blunt comments, she replied: ''These things I do are the only fun the poor man has.''
        Mr. Mitchell did not disagree then. ''I get a grat kick out of all this,'' he said. ''I love it.'' The Congressional elections of 1970 were a setback for the Administration. Worse, the polls showed Mr. Nixon's popularity sliding rapidly; by April, 1972, Senator Edmund Muskie of Maine, the Democratic front-runner, was leading the President, 47 per cent to 39 percent. Dirty Tricks Begun
        This led to a series of fateful measures. The White House initiated a program of ''dirty tricks,'' including espionage, forged letters and sabotage, directed against Senator Muskie, who eventually withdrew from the campaign, and against other potential candidates.
        Mr. Mitchell had the responsibilty, unofficially at first, of building up the Committee for the Re-Election of the President, widely known as Creep, and its secret and public funds, collected on the finance chairman, Maurice Stans. Mr. Magruder has described the Attorney General as ''ambivalent'' about the dirty tricks, but testified that he approved the payments for them from the start.
        While still Attorney General in December 1971, Mr. Mitchell had approved the appointment of G. Gordon Liddy, then a White House ''plumber,'' as general counsel to Mr. Nixon's re-election committee. Three months earlier, Mr. Liddy and Mr. Hunt had directed a burglary at the office of the psychiatrist of Daniel Ellsberg, the man who has said he gave the Pentagon Papers to the press. $1 Million Plan Now in response to demands for campaign intelligence work, and in line with the ''dirty tricks'' already under way, Mr. Liddy prepared a $1 million program calling for muggings and kidnappings of demonstrators at the Republican National Convention, sabotage of the air-conditioning at the Democratic convention, wiretapping of Democratic leaders, the engagement of prostitutes for purposes of blackmail, and so on.
        Mr. Magruder later testified that the Attorney General ordered Mr. Liddy to ''tone it down a little'' and come up with a less costly plan.
        Mr. Mitchell himself later described it as ''beyond the pale,'' adding that he should have thrown Mr. Liddy out the window. In any case, Mr. Liddy returned on Feb. 4 with a $500,000 budget.
        On Feb. 15, Mr. Mitchell announced that he would resign as Attorney General to become chairman of Mr. Nixon's re-election committee; Mrs. Mitchell told a reporter that it was ''a very bad move.''
        On Memorial Day, the Liddy-Hunt team broke into Democratic national headquarters in the Watergate complex and planted microphones in an aide's telephone. According to Mr. Magruder, when Mr. Mitchell saw the first set of transcripts, he complained that it was ''not worth the paper it's printed on,'' and ordered that the burglars return for a better placement. Mr. Mitchell later testified that this was ''a palpable, damnable lie.'' Caught in Break-In
        At any rate the burglars did return, on the night of June 16 and were caught in the act. Mr. Liddy telephoned the news to Mr. Magruder in Los Angeles, where he and Mr. Mitchell were on a campaign trip.
        The cover-up began. Mr. Magruder testified later, ''I don't think there was ever any discussion that there would not be a cover-up.''
        On July 1, Mr. Mitchell resigned from the re-election committee, citing the need to choose between his family and politics.
        He himself later acknowledged that his fear of a Nixon defeat led him to withhold information about the payment of secret campaign funds to the Watergate burglars. Other witnesses said he had approved those payments, as a means of buying their silence.
        Late in September 1972, The Washington Post advised Mr. Mitchell that it would report that he controlled the secret funds that had been paid Mr. Liddy before Watergate. It said he replied, ''Jeeeesus!'' and then warned that its publisher would be ''caught in a big fat wringer if that's published.''
        The story was printed. The President was re-elected with a near-record majority of 60.7 percent. And the story continued to unravel.
        At the White House, the President and his closest advisers allegedly agreed that it would be best for Mr. Mitchell to take the blame. Mr. Mitchell declined to carry his loyalty that far.
        Martha Mitchell called publicly for the President to resign, saying he had known all that was going on. In public, Mr. Mitchell disavowed this, saying his wife was speaking under stress. In private, he told Mr. Ehrlichman at the White House that he was standing on his denials of guilt. To the end, the President gave primary blame to his aides, including Mr. Mitchell, for Watergate and the cover-up.
        According to friends, it was Mr. Mitchell's refusal to break with Mr. Nixon that destroyed his marriage. The couple separated in 1974, and Mrs. Mitchell blamed the former President. ''He fell into the clutches of the King,'' she said.
        At his trial in late 1974 for conspiracy, obstruction of justice and three counts of perjury, his own lawyer echoed Mrs. Mitchell, maintaining that Mr. Nixon had been the ''maestro'' and that Mr. Mitchell had done what he had done because ''he believed in and trusted and he was completely loyal to Mr. Nixon.'' Life With Martha
        In his own testimony, Mr. Mitchell refrained from criticizing Mr. Nixon. He denied most of the charges, and said he had withheld some information from investigators for solid political reasons. He was convicted on Jan. 1, 1975, on all counts, along with Mr. Haldeman, Mr. Ehrlichman and Robert C. Mardian.
        Sentenced to from 30 months to eight years in prison, Mr. Mitchell quipped to reporters: ''It could have been a hell of a lot of worse. They could have sentenced me to spend the rest of my life with Martha.''
        After his release in January, 1979, Mr. Mitchell lived quietly in Washington, avoiding most interviews and refusing to discuss the scandal in public.
        Mrs. Mitchell died of bone cancer on Memorial Day 1976. Her physician had asked that Mr. Mitchell stay away during her final illness, lest his presence upset her, but he and her children attended the funeral in Pine Bluff.
        Jeb Magruder, whose testimony was devastating to the former Attorney General, has left a sympathetic portrait of the man. In his memoir, ''An American Life,'' he wrote:
        ''He was more than a strong man: he was a kind of father figure to dozens of people in the top level of the Administration. Young men like John Dean and myself thought of him in those terms, and even the President seemed to regard him as a tower of strength, an equal, someone to take his troubles to and to be counseled by.
        ''I always found Mitchell more of political moderate than his public image suggested. Mitchell was a hard-liner in a philosophical sense - he wanted strong anticrime laws and conservatives on the Supreme Court - but he was not a hard-liner like Colson or Nixon in wanting to go after our critics with a meat ax. My impression was that he tolerated the 'dirty tricks' approach as a means of humoring the President.''
        Mr. Mitchell is also survived by his daughter from his first marriage, Jill Reed of New York, and six grandchildren.
      