
       A. Aladar Marberger, a New York art dealer, died Tuesday evening at New York Hospital. He was 41 years old and had had AIDS for three years.
        A. Aladar Marberger, a New York art dealer, died Tuesday evening at New York Hospital. He was 41 years old and had had AIDS for three years.
        As director of the Fischbach Gallery on West 57th Street, Mr. Marberger successfully turned the gallery's program from abstract art to contemporary American realism and showed the work of such well-known artists in the field as Jane Freilicher, Nell Blaine, Neil Welliver and John Button. He also gave the first one-man show to Donald Evans, an artist celebrated for his poetic creation of imaginary postage stamps. A longtime friend of Robert Joffrey, he served from time to time as informal art adviser to the Joffrey Ballet and was an executor of Mr. Joffrey's will. Fighting 'Stigma of AIDS'
        Mr. Marberger was outspoken about his illness and was the subject of several newspaper and magazine profiles as well as a television documentary about his spirited way of dealing with the disease. He volunteered for experimental treatments and actively encouraged and supported fellow AIDS patients. ''A war must be fought against the stigma of AIDS as well as the disease itself,'' he once told an interviewer.
        Mr. Marberger was born in Philadelphia on June 15, 1947, to Albert Bela and Ethel Wein Marberger. He grew up nearby in Elkins Park, Pa., attended Cheltenham High School there, and graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he majored in art. He moved to New York at the age of 22 at the urging of the painter Elaine de Kooning, with whom he studied at Carnegie-Mellon. After a short stint as assistant dean of the New York Studio School, an artist's academy, he was named director of the Fischbach Gallery.
        Mr. Marberger is survived by his parents, of Jenkintown, Pa.; two sisters, Divashakti Haber of Staten Island and Donna Marberger, of Venice, Calif., and a brother, Dr. Jon Marberger of Jenkintown.
        A funeral service will be held at 1 P.M. Friday at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, in Manhattan.
      