
       Wolfgang Roth, an internationally noted stage designer whose work was seen on Broadway and at the Metropolitan and New York City Operas, died of bronchial pneumonia Friday night at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and had homes in Manhattan and in Bucks County, Pa.
        Wolfgang Roth, an internationally noted stage designer whose work was seen on Broadway and at the Metropolitan and New York City Operas, died of bronchial pneumonia Friday night at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and had homes in Manhattan and in Bucks County, Pa.
        Mr. Roth, who was a native of Berlin, learned his profession as a young collaborator with Erwin Piscator and Bertolt Brecht. He came to the United States in 1938 and worked in many media, from stage to film, interior decoration to painting.
        He made his mark in 1952 as the costume and scenery designer of the Blevins Davis-Robert Breen production of ''Porgy and Bess.'' Mr. Roth designed the sets from paintings by Horace Pippin, and then built a duplicate set for a European tour starring Cab Calloway, Leontyne Price and William Warfield. Celebrated for 'Littlest Circus'
        Mr. Roth also designed the sets and costumes for the Metropolitan's 1955 production of ''Don Pasquale.'' It was one of many operas, plays and musicals to use his designs.
        His own pantomime entertainment, ''The Littlest Circus,'' delighted audiences and critics when he mounted it on Broadway in 1959. It had no animals but presented a cast of clowns, jugglers and magicians.
        His work also filled stages in Washington and Cincinnati, at the Vancouver International Festival in 1963 and 1964 and in cities in Europe.
        His career was varied, and included a stint as a clown in a European circus. He began as a student of painting at the Academy of Art in Berlin, and his fascination with the circus and theater was reflected in the drawings and sketches he continued to exhibit in the 1970's.
        Also in the 1970's he went on the stage himself several times to sing and talk about the Berlin cabaret scene and theater life he recalled from his youth.
        Mr. Roth's wife, Lee, died in March. He is survived by a brother, Bertolt, of Holon, Israel.
      