
       James Boffman, former superintendent of high schools in Manhattan, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Springfield Gardens, Queens. He was 59 years old.
        James Boffman, former superintendent of high schools in Manhattan, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Springfield Gardens, Queens. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Boffman, who was superintendent from 1970 to 1984, when he retired, was the first black educator to hold the job. In 1970, when he was also principal of Thomas Jefferson High School in the East New York section of Brooklyn, he was one of the city's two black principals. He was also one of the city's two youngest principals, assuming the job when he was 41.
        Mr. Boffman was born in Manhattan and earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the City College of New York. He joined the New York City school system in 1954 as a teacher of Romance languages.
        He was a Fulbright Scholar at the University of Lyons, where he did graduate work in French. He was also a group leader for Operation Crossroads Africa, a youth organization that built a community center in Nigeria. Discouraged Demonstrations
        Upon returning to the United States, Mr. Boffman taught at Frederick Douglass Junior High School in Manhattan. Then he became an assistant principal at Grossley Junior High School in Jamaica, Queens. In early 1968, he became chairman of the department of foreign languages at Fort Hamilton High School in Brooklyn.
        As a high school principal during the days of racial and antiwar protests, Mr. Boffman adopted a low-key style, seeing himself as a buffer between a white school system and black students. While permitting expressions of social concern, he discouraged open political demonstrations, a stance that brought criticism from students and praise from superiors. As superintendent of high schools, Mr. Boffman administered 2,000 teachers and 50,000 students.
        He was on the executive committee of the New York Association of Black School Supervisors and Administrators and was active in the American Friends Service Committee, now AFS International.
        Surviving are his mother, Gladys, of Springfield Gardens; his sister-in-law, June, of Princeton, N.J., and two nieces, Lynn Boffman James of Laurel Springs, N.J., and Jan Boffman Jennings of Princeton Junction, N.J.
      