
       Morris Janowitz, a sociologist who specialized in the role of the military in society as well as in patriotism and urban issues, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at his home in Hyde Park. Ill. He was 69 years old.
        Morris Janowitz, a sociologist who specialized in the role of the military in society as well as in patriotism and urban issues, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at his home in Hyde Park. Ill. He was 69 years old.
        In a long association with the University of Chicago, Professor Janowitz served as chairman of its sociology department from 1967 to 1972, after which he became Lawrence A. Kimpton Distinguished Service Professor.
        Professor Janowitz wrote extensively about the relationship between citizens and their society. With Bruno Bettelheim he was the author of a major work, ''The Dynamics of Prejudice,'' published in 1950, which offered new perspectives on the problem of racial and ethnic prejudice. His book ''The Professional Soldier'' (1960), was credited with opening avenues of research on the military and its relations with civilian society.
        In 1981 Professor Janowitz received the Laing Prize, the highest honor bestowed on faculty members for books published by the University of Chicago Press, for his work, ''The Last Half Century: Societal Change and Politics in America,'' (1978).
        He was also a frequent government adviser, beginning the 1947 as a consultant on the Commission on Civil Rights established by President Truman.
        Professor Janowitz founded the Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces and Society, serving as its chairman from 1962 until 1981. Two years ago he became the first scholar to occupy the S. L. A. Marshall Chair at the United States Army Research Institute for Behavioral and Social Sciences.
        Mr. Janowitz, a native of Paterson, N.J., received a bachelor's degree in economics from New York University. After serving as a propaganda analyst in the Department of Justice in Washington, he joined the United States Army, rising from private to second lieutenant in World War II.
        He earned a doctorate in sociology from the University of Chicago and was named an assistant professor there in 1948. Four years later he joined the sociology faculty of the University of Michigan, returning to Chicago as a professor of sociology in 1962.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Gayle Shulenberger; two daughters, Rebecca, of Chicago, and Naomi, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Henry Janowitz, of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      