
       Ernest Matthew Mickler, the author of ''White Trash Cooking,'' a best-selling cookbook, died of AIDS Tuesday at his home in Moccasin Branch, Fla. He was 48 years old.
        Ernest Matthew Mickler, the author of ''White Trash Cooking,'' a best-selling cookbook, died of AIDS Tuesday at his home in Moccasin Branch, Fla. He was 48 years old.
        ''White Trash Cooking,'' first published in 1986 by the Jargon Society, a small publisher in Highlands, N.C., soon became a national best seller. The book has sold 350,000 copies, according to its current publisher, Ten Speed Press, in Berkeley, Calif.
        The book's down-home recipes, part loving re-creations of family heirlooms, part tongue-in-cheek inventions, had wide appeal. Kiss Me Not Sandwich (with raw onions), Aunt Rosie Deaton's All-American Slum Gullion (''simmer till you can't stand it any more'') and Edna Rae's Smothered Potatoes (his mother's specialty) nourished a public fed up with fancy cooking.
        As for the book's title, which offended some readers, Mr. Mickler explained: ''There's white trash and there's White Trash. Manners and pride separate the two.'' Mr. Mickler clearly relished being among the latter. Rituals of the Rural South
        Mr. Mickler was born in Palm Valley, Fla. He graduated from Jacksonville University in that state and earned a master's degree from Mills College in California. Along the way, he collected folklore and recipes. He became a caterer in Key West, where he met his first publisher.
        Mr. Mickler's latest book was published by Ten Speed Press only this week. Titled ''Sinkin Spells, Hot Flashes, Fits and Cravins,'' it describes rituals of the rural South -from hog killing to quilting parties -as well as its culinary history. One chapter is devoted entirely to funerals.
        As for the recipes, Ritz crackers, Cool Whip and Velveeta fill Mr. Mickler's larder. Rose Pink's baloney roll-ups, Willadoll's Baked Peekabeef and Naireen the Perlow Queen's Sausage Perlow are but a few of the recipes in which the names of the creators form a cultural subtext.
        Mr. Mickler's companion, Gary Jolley, was with him when he died. Surviving are three brothers: William, of Jacksonville, Fla., and Hugo and Hampton, both of Pontevedra Beach, Fla.
      