
       Talaat Yacoub, leader of the Palestine Liberation Front, a small and militant Palestinian guerrilla faction, died after a heart attack in Algeria on Thursday, according to reports from Algiers and New York.
        Talaat Yacoub, leader of the Palestine Liberation Front, a small and militant Palestinian guerrilla faction, died after a heart attack in Algeria on Thursday, according to reports from Algiers and New York.
        Algerian state television reported Mr. Yacoub's death yesterday but gave no other circumstances or any indication whether a funeral was to be held. The Associated Press quoted Palestinians with medical knowledge as saying that Mr. Yacoub, who was in his mid-40's, had no history of heart disease.
        The New York office of the Palestine Liberation Organization, the umbrella group of which the front is a part, confirmed Mr. Yacoub's death but had no further details yesterday.
        Mr. Yacoub, a former teacher, was considered an ideologue and a hard-liner. The faction he led, variously described as pro-Syrian and pro-Iraqi, is believed to number no more than 200 members who remained loyal to Mr. Yacoub after internal splits within the group.
        He was born in British-occupied Palestine not long before Israel came into being. He was one of several members of a larger, also hard-line guerrilla group, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, which broke away in 1979 to form the Palestine Liberation Front. In 1981, the Palestine Liberation Front itself split in two, with some members following Mr. Yacoub and others remaining loyal to Abul Abbas.
        The faction led by Mr. Abbas was responsible for the hijacking of the Italian cruise liner Achille Lauro in the Mediterranean in 1985 and the murder of an American passenger, Leon Klinghoffer.
        Mr. Yacoub denounced the hijackers as pirates alien to the Palestinian cause, and was joined in his condemnation of the Abbas faction by leaders of several other Palestinian groups.
      