
       Judge Edward T. Gignoux, who presided over a number of cases of nationwide interest in his 26 years on the Federal bench, died Friday at Maine Medical Center in Portland. He was 72 years old and lived in Cumberland Foreside, a seashore village near Portland.
        Judge Edward T. Gignoux, who presided over a number of cases of nationwide interest in his 26 years on the Federal bench, died Friday at Maine Medical Center in Portland. He was 72 years old and lived in Cumberland Foreside, a seashore village near Portland.
        The hospital declined to give the cause of death, but Judge Gignoux had been reported in failing health for months.
        Chief Justice Warren E. Burger twice called Judge Gignoux to preside over sensitive cases far from his Maine home. One involved the contempt-of-court charges brought in 1972 against defendants and lawyers in the Chicago Seven case. The other was the 1983 bribery trial of another Federal judge, Alcee L. Hastings of Florida's Southern District.
        Judge Gignoux was also widely praised for his handling of a land dispute in the 1970's that pitted the State of Maine against two Indian tribes. The two tribes, the Penobscot and the Passamaquoddy, sought to recover 10 million acres under a 1790 statute. Judge Gignoux ruled that the statute was legal, forcing an eventual settlement in which the state surrendered 300,000 acres and $27 million. Presided at Writer's Trial
        In addition, Judge Gignoux presided at the jury trial of Richard L. Stratton, a writer convicted of drug smuggling in 1983. Mr. Stratton contended that he was researching a novel when he was arrested in a raid in which large quantitites of marijuana and hashish were found. Judge Gignoux denounced Mr. Stratton as a ''major actor'' in a large smuggling ring and sentenced him to 15 years in prison.
        Judge Gignoux formally retired that year but continued to hear cases as a senior judge. The courthouse in Portland was recently renamed in his honor.
        Edward Thaxter Gignoux (pronounced zhe-NOO) was born in Portland on June 28, 1916. He graduated with honors from Harvard College in 1937 and from Harvard Law School in 1940.
        He served in World War II and afterward returned to his hometown, where he was city counsel from 1949 to 1955. In those years he also was a partner in a Portland law firm.
        President Eisenhower named Mr. Gignoux to the Federal bench in 1957, and he was regarded as a leading contender for a vacancy on the United States Supreme Court in 1971 and again in 1975. In 1980, American Lawyer magazine rated him the best district judge in the Federal court system's First Circuit. Case of Chicago Seven
        When Judge Gignoux was sent to Chicago in 1972, the case of the Chicago Seven centered on 175 contempt citations issued by Judge Julius J. Hoffman, who had presided over their original trial. In that trial, the defendants were accused of crossing state lines to incite a riot and disrupt the 1968 Democratic National Convention.
        An appeals court struck down all but 52 of the 175 contempt counts and ordered a new trial. Judge Gignoux acquitted three defendants - Rennard C. Davis, Tom Hayden and Leonard Weinglass. He found four others - William M. Kunstler, Jerry Rubin, Abbie Hoffman and David Dellinger - all guilty, but declined to impose prison sentences.
        The Hastings case in Florida, early in 1983, just months before his retirement, might have been his toughest assignment: presiding over the trial of a peer. Judge Hastings was charged with bribery-conspiracy, although he was never accused of taking money.
        Judge Hastings was acquitted, but a panel of judges resumed the investigation, and his impeachment, voted by the House of Representatives three months ago, is still pending in the Senate.
        Judge Gignoux is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Hildegarde Thaxter; a daughter, Marie Andree Grise of Hartford; a son, Edward Thaxter Gignoux Jr. of Atlanta; five grandsons, and one great-granddaughter.
      