
        Joseph Bova, an actor whose roles ranged from Prince Dauntless the Drab in the original production of ''Once Upon a Mattress'' to Shakespeare's King Richard III, died on March 12 at the Actors' Fund retirement home in Englewood, N.J. He was 81.
        The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Dr. Lee Lawson.
        Mr. Bova, known largely for his comedic abilities, was an actor who, though not a major star, had a steady career on and off Broadway, in movies and on television.
        Born in Cleveland to Anthony Bova, a grocer, and Mary Bova, a homemaker, he was a child actor there. After graduating from Northwestern University, he became the program director for an NBC outlet in Cleveland and, as Uncle Joe Bova, was host of a children's television program and brought the character to ABC's local station in New York.
        His first stage appearance in New York was in ''Once Upon a Mattress,'' the 1959 Broadway take-off on ''The Princess and the Pea,'' which also featured Carol Burnett's debut. He played Prince Dauntless, the son of a domineering queen bent on thwarting any princess with eyes on her son.
        His many later theatrical appearances included New York Shakespeare Festival productions in Central Park and at the Public Theater, including ''King Richard III,'' ''The Comedy of Errors,'' ''Troilus and Cressida,'' ''Love's Labour's Lost'' and ''Twelfth Night.''
        He acted with Lynn Redgrave in a 1977 production of Shaw's ''St. Joan,'' appeared in Nabokov's ''Invitation to a Beheading'' and was nominated for a 1970 Tony Award for his performance in the ''The Chinese'' by Murray Schisgal. For its entire run, from 1980 to 1989, he played Bert Barry in ''42nd Street.''
        His credits included numerous movies and television series episodes, and he did hundreds of voice-overs.
        ''He played a purple turtle in a children's vitamin ad,'' Dr. Lawson said. ''Those ads were enough to buy a country house in Woodstock.''
        Mr. Bova is survived by his wife; two daughters, Gabriella Bova of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Leslie Bova of Boulder, Colo.; a stepson, Christopher Boal of Manhattan; a brother, Phillip Bova of Lyndhurst, Ohio; and a sister, Barbara Losik of Russell, Ohio.
      