
        Dr. E. Russell Alexander, an epidemiologist and public health official who helped curb deadly disease outbreaks and raised concerns about federal plans to thwart a potential swine flu epidemic in the 1970's, when a vaccine was linked to a neurological disorder, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Seattle. He was 77.
        The cause was islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas, his family said.
        Dr. Alexander was a member of a committee on immunization practices that was advising the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention when swine flu was first reported at Fort Dix, N.J., in 1976.
        The outbreak caused public health officials to fear a national epidemic. More than 200 soldiers were mildly infected with the influenza A virus, and 13 were hospitalized. Dr. Alexander advised caution and argued for the stockpiling of flu vaccine, without embarking on vaccinations until it could be shown that the flu had spread beyond Fort Dix. But the committee decided to move quickly to cut off potential contagion, and about 40 million Americans received the vaccine.
        A small percentage of those treated developed Guillain-Barré syndrome, a poliolike disorder that causes paralysis, and some patient deaths were linked to the vaccinations.
        The devastating consequences of a flu epidemic did not occur, and the effort to use the vaccine nationwide was halted by the end of 1976.
        Dr. Harvey V. Fineberg, president of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences, said that Dr. Alexander ''posed very important questions about how to proceed with swine flu, and they turned out to be the right questions.''
        With Richard E. Neustadt, Dr. Fineberg wrote a book, ''The Epidemic That Never Was: Policy Making in the Swine Flu Scare'' (1983). As a result of his prudence, Dr. Alexander received ''wide respect by knowledgeable leaders in public health,'' Dr. Fineberg added.
        In 1993, while serving as chief of epidemiology for the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, Dr. Alexander and others headed off a food-borne epidemic that killed four children. Within three days, investigators traced E. coli bacteria back to improperly cooked beef served by a fast-food chain.
        The tainted food was withdrawn from the market, in an ''example of timely action that prevented many more cases of illness,'' said James L. Gale, an emeritus professor of epidemiology at the University of Washington.
        Dr. Alexander, who trained as a pediatrician, was interested in preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. He studied the association between genital herpes and cervical cancer in women, and the neonatal infection of infants by mothers carrying the trachoma organism, a leading cause of blindness in children.
        Edward Russell Alexander was born in Chicago. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Chicago.
        He joined the federal Epidemic Intelligence Service in 1955, which is part of the Communicable Disease Center, and served there until 1960, ultimately as chief of its surveillance section. The center would eventually become the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
        From 1961 to 1969, Dr. Alexander was an assistant professor of preventive medicine and pediatrics, and then an associate professor, at the University of Washington. He was named a professor and chairman of Washington's division of epidemiology and international health in 1970 and remained until 1979.
        From 1980 to 1983, he was a professor of pediatrics at the University of Arizona. After returning to the Centers for Disease Control, from 1983 to 1989, Dr. Alexander moved to the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, and also held a professorship at the University of Washington. He retired in 1998.
        Dr. Alexander was president of the American Epidemiological Society in 1986, and was named president of the American Venereal Disease Association in the same year.
        Dr. Alexander is survived by his wife, the Rev. Mary Jane Francis, an Episcopal priest. Two previous marriages ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by four daughters, Ann Alexander of Seattle, Kay Alexander of Lake Forest Park, Wash., Bess Carter of Fall City, Wash., and Eva Alexander Rice of Denver; a stepson, Bill Levitch of Renton, Wash.; and by five grandchildren.
      