
        Bill Cardoso, a writer and an editor who might have been lost in the haze of the hip, offbeat, drug-tinged world of 70's journalism had he not come up with the perfect word to describe Hunter S. Thompson's roller-coaster prose -- ''gonzo'' -- died on Feb. 26 at his home in Kelseyville, Calif. He was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Mary Miles Ryan, his companion for many years.
        Mr. Cardoso worked for many newspapers, wire services and magazines, establishing a reputation as a careful but hardly prolific writer and a jolly companion. Friends tell of his being ''writer in residence'' at a hotel bar for nearly a year; making up a secret ''language'' with Mr. Thompson when both covered the Muhammad Ali-George Foreman fight in Zaire, and owning a jazz club in the Canary Islands.
        Both Mr. Thompson, who died last year, and Mr. Cardoso said ''gonzo'' sprang to life after Mr. Cardoso read Mr. Thompson's article about the Kentucky Derby in Scanlon's Monthly in June 1970. The article, ''The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved,'' bristled with the raw disorder, odd humor and piercing insight that became Mr. Thompson's trademarks.
        Mr. Cardoso, who was the editor of The Boston Globe Sunday Magazine at the time, wrote Mr. Thompson a letter, saying he had scored a stunning breakthrough.
        ''This is it, this is pure Gonzo,'' Mr. Cardoso wrote, using a capital G. ''If this is a start, keep rolling.''
        Ralph Steadman, the illustrator who worked with Mr. Thompson, said in an interview that Mr. Thompson immediately took to the term: ''He said, 'O.K., that's what I do. Gonzo.' ''
        Mr. Steadman theorized why. ''It was a strangely goofy word,'' he said. ''Things are strangely gonzatic.''
        The next year, the following appeared in Mr. Thompson's ''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'': ''Free Enterprise. The American Dream. Horatio Alger gone mad on drugs in Las Vegas. Do it now: pure Gonzo journalism.''
        A new breed of subjective journalism was christened. The idea was that a bizarre, highly personalized grapple with a situation led to truth. If drugs did not help -- a minority view -- they unarguably made the journey more colorful and the resulting journalism more marketable.
        ''Gonzo'' came to describe everything from marketing to computer programming to mud-kicking country music. Google has 15.3 million references to ''Gonzo,'' and the Oxford English Dictionary gives full credit to Mr. Cardoso.
        Not that even he knew its roots. He often said it was a corruption of the French Canadian ''gonzeaux,'' which he said connoted ''shining path.''
        In an academic paper, titled ''What Is Gonzo? The Etymology of an Urban Legend,'' Martin Hirst of the University of Queensland in Australia wrote that he could not find the word in French dictionaries. He offered other possibilities: a hipster expression, an Italian word for ''simpleton'' or old South Boston slang for the last man standing after a drinking bout.
        Another twist comes from Lucian K. Truscott IV, an author and a screenwriter who was friendly with both writers. He said Mr. Cardoso first used ''gonzo'' in 1968 to compliment Mr. Thompson on an article he wrote for The Globe magazine about President Richard M. Nixon.
        William Joseph Cardoso, a son of a fire chief, was born in Boston on Sept. 24, 1937. He attended Boston schools, pitched a no-hitter in junior high school and graduated from Boston University. He worked for newspapers in Vermont and New Hampshire before joining The Globe.
        Mr. Cardoso, a reporter at the time, met Mr. Thompson on a press bus during the 1968 New Hampshire primary, according to ''Fear and Loathing in America: The Gonzo Letters, Volume II.'' He became the editor of the Globe magazine later that year.
        In 1984, he published ''The Maltese Sangweech and Other Heroes,'' an anthology of his articles that had appeared in Harper's, Rolling Stone and other magazines. The New York Times called it ''a good natured romp.''
        In addition to Ms. Ryan, Mr. Cardoso is survived by his daughter, Linda Cardoso of Los Angeles, and his brother, Gilbert, who lives near Boston.
        ''It seems sad to me that all Bill's going to be remembered for is Gonzo journalism,'' Mr. Truscott said, explaining that Mr. Cardoso's style was more precise and restrained than Mr. Thompson's.
        ''Bill may have named it, but he never wrote it,'' he said.
      