
        Robert J. Dryfoos, who played a critical role in the fight to save Radio City Music Hall from demolition and then represented the Upper East Side on the City Council for 11 years, died on March 2 at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 63.
        The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said his companion, Susan Dymond.
        Robert Jerry Dryfoos was born on Aug. 11, 1942. He graduated from Marietta College in Ohio and received a law degree from New York University. He was admitted to the state bar in 1968.
        Mr. Dryfoos entered government in 1975 as chief counsel to Lt. Gov. Mary Anne Krupsak. Besides coordinating the effort to save Radio City, whose interior was designated a city landmark in 1978, he worked with public television stations to develop programming like ''Live From Lincoln Center'' and drafted economic development and professional licensing laws.
        From 1978 to 1980, Mr. Dryfoos was a lawyer for the State Assembly and advised its Housing Committee. In November 1980, Mr. Dryfoos won a special election to complete the term of Jane B. Trichter, who had resigned from the Council.
        Mr. Dryfoos is perhaps best known for a vote he cast on Jan. 8, 1986, when he defied the Manhattan and Brooklyn Democratic leaders to support Peter F. Vallone, a Queens Democrat, as speaker of the Council. Mr. Dryfoos had promised the leaders that he would support a Brooklyn colleague, Samuel Horwitz, but at the last minute he declared his support for Mr. Vallone, giving him an 18-to-17 victory.
        ''It was a profile in courage,'' recalled Mr. Vallone, who was speaker until 2001 and devoted a chapter to the episode in his memoir, ''Learning to Govern,'' published last year. ''Up until this guy, the votes only went according to what the county leaders said. This was a big, big break from what had transpired on the City Council up until that time.''
        At the time, Mr. Dryfoos described Mr. Vallone as ''clearly the most qualified person to lead us into the 1990's,'' but some of his Council colleagues never forgave him and refused to speak to him for years.
        Mr. Dryfoos decided not to seek re-election in 1991 after The New York Times reported that he had failed to file federal income-tax returns for three years; accepted a loan from a developer whose projects he had promoted; and used an expense fund for personal bills. However, he denied any wrongdoing and was never charged with a crime. Some of his defenders say that a minor matter was exaggerated and exploited by his political opponents, adding that they believe he paid the taxes.
        In 1999, after his political career had ended, he established the Dryfoos Group, a lobbying firm. He worked for after-school programs and helped the Center for Educational Innovation-Public Education Association, a nonprofit organization, secure city money to help low-income students prepare for high-school entrance exams and to improve social studies instruction.
        Mr. Dryfoos never married. In addition to Ms. Dymond, he is survived by her two sons and two grandchildren.
      