
        Richard Fleischer, a film director who never became a household name despite working with some of Hollywood's biggest stars on hits like ''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea,'' ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' and ''Fantastic Voyage,'' died early Saturday at the Motion Picture and Television Country House and Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 89.
        The cause was complications of an upper respiratory infection, said his son Mark.
        After directing a string of B-movie thrillers and ''The Happy Time,'' a 1952 comedy about coming of age in Quebec, Mr. Fleischer was asked by Walt Disney to direct a big-budget movie based on Jules Verne's novel ''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.''
        The decision was not a simple one. Mr. Fleischer's father, Max Fleischer, and Max's siblings were pioneers in the early days of animation, gaining fame with their Betty Boop and Popeye the Sailor shorts in the 1930's. Disney, their main rival, was not a popular name in the Fleischer household, and Mr. Fleischer told Disney he would have to ask his father's permission first. His father told him that he should of course take the job.
        After the enormous success of ''20,000 Leagues,'' Mr. Fleischer moved to the A list and began working with top stars on ''The Vikings,'' with Kirk Douglas and Tony Curtis; ''Barabbas,'' with Anthony Quinn; and ''Tora! Tora! Tora!,'' a dramatization of the Pearl Harbor attack told from both the American and the Japanese perspectives. (Mr. Fleischer directed the American half.)
        Though his movies were often hits, they were not always so popular with critics. Among those receiving less than stellar reviews were ''Che!,'' starring Omar Sharif as Guevara; ''Doctor Dolittle,'' with Rex Harrison talking to the animals; and ''Soylent Green,'' named for a futuristic foodstuff that, as Charlton Heston announced in his starring role, ''is people.''
        Mr. Fleischer's movies in the 1980's, the remake of ''The Jazz Singer'' starring Neil Diamond, ''Amityville 3-D'' and ''Conan the Destroyer,'' continued in this vein.
        He later told entertaining, often lacerating anecdotes about the actors, producers and other ''greats, near-greats and ingrates of Hollywood'' in his 1993 memoir, ''Just Tell Me When to Cry.'' The title was the actress Sylvia Sidney's response when Mr. Fleischer, then a young, enthusiastic director, gave a prolonged explanation of her character's motivation.
        Mr. Fleischer said in a 1993 interview with The Los Angeles Times that the average person would not be interested in his own story but would want to hear about the stars with whom he had worked. The book tells of Kirk Douglas's sometimes difficult personality, Orson Welles's insistence that other actors keep their eyes closed when he was addressing them in certain scenes and, conversely, Rex Harrison's frustrations that the animals he was singing to in ''Doctor Dolittle'' were not making eye contact.
        Richard O. Fleischer -- the O does not stand for anything, a result of a misunderstanding in filling out his birth certificate -- was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 8, 1916. Though he grew up in a show-business household, he intended to become a psychiatrist when he enrolled at Brown University.
        But after graduation, instead of medical school, he went to the Yale School of Drama. There he met his future wife, Mary Dickson, who acted in plays that he was directing. She survives him, along with their two sons, Bruce, of State College, Pa., and Mark, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Jane Reid of Oakland, Calif.
        While traveling with a theater troupe after Yale, Mr. Fleischer was spotted by an RKO talent scout and invited to New York to write scripts for newsreels. After a few months in the Army, he moved to Hollywood and began directing noirish B-movies like ''Trapped,'' ''Follow Me Quietly'' and the critically well received ''Narrow Margin,'' a cat-and-mouse thriller that takes places almost entirely on a train.
        Throughout his career, he was attracted to true crime, directing the ''The Boston Strangler,'' ''10 Rillington Place'' and ''Compulsion,'' about the Leopold and Loeb case.
        ''You cannot be interested in the theatrical world and not be interested in criminology,'' Mr. Fleischer said in a 1970 interview with Women's Wear Daily. ''But I'm also interested in fantasy and drama, whatever makes theater. I'm interested in everything.''
      