
        Michael S. Joyce, who as steward of the Olin and Bradley foundations was an influential patron of leading conservative research and civic organizations, died on Feb. 24 at a hospice in Germantown, Wis. He was 63 and lived in West Bend, Wis.
        The cause was liver disease, said Frank Cannon, a family spokesman in Washington.
        Mr. Joyce was executive vice president of the conservative John M. Olin Foundation in New York from 1979 to 1985. He then became president of the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation of Milwaukee, shortly after its assets soared to nearly $300 million, making it one of the richest foundations in the country. He remained at its helm until 2001.
        Mr. Joyce was an important figure in a formidable network of organizations that emerged during that time to promote a conservative political and social agenda. The Olin and Bradley foundations, along with the Sarah Scaife Foundation in Pittsburgh, accounted for a large share of support for centers of conservative thinking, including the American Enterprise Institute, the Cato Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the Hoover Institution, the Hudson Institute and the Federalist Society.
        The Olin Foundation had long given to such causes, if somewhat randomly. Mr. Olin recruited William E. Simon, Treasury secretary under President Richard M. Nixon, to head the foundation board in the late 1970's. Mr. Simon, in turn, entrusted operations to Mr. Joyce, a protégé of Irving Kristol, a founder of neoconservatism.
        Waldemar A. Nielsen wrote in his authoritative study on foundations, ''The Golden Donors,'' that Mr. Joyce saw to it that grants were made ''with a sharp focus on maximizing their impact on government policy and on public opinion.'' Money was channeled into public policy research via respected individuals, like free-market economists and Nobel laureates, and via institutions like the American Enterprise Institute, but also through liberal centers like the Brookings Institution.
        Mr. Joyce told The New York Times in 1985 that many traditional foundations had become ''fossilized in their opinions.'' By contrast, he said, his intention was to support the scholars best able to ''de-utopianize political thinking'' and to promote thinkers who sought ''new ways to improve the workings of democratic capitalism.''
        During Mr. Joyce's tenure, the Olin Foundation played a crucial role in taking free-market thinking to law schools by supporting programs at Harvard, Columbia and others. It sponsored a program to teach judges how to apply economic analysis to the cases before them.
        Mr. Joyce left the Olin Foundation when it disbanded in accordance with Mr. Olin's wishes and then took charge at the Bradley Foundation. As a believer in smaller government, Mr. Joyce directed more money toward local programs, including religion-based initiatives, fellowships, advocacy groups and experiments with welfare changes and school vouchers.
        Michael Stewart Joyce was born in Cleveland and graduated with a major in history and philosophy from Cleveland State University in 1967. He taught history and political science and coached football at Catholic high schools in the Cleveland area. He received a doctorate in education from Walden University in 1974 while working for the Educational Research Council of America, a textbook publisher.
        He moved to New York in 1978 to direct the staff of the Institute for Educational Affairs, which was led by Mr. Kristol and Mr. Simon, an investment banker. He was named executive director at the Olin Foundation the following year.
        Mr. Joyce served on the Reagan administration's transitional team in 1980 and on President Ronald Reagan's panel on government cost reduction. The Olin Foundation grants he channeled helped writers and economists who were widely regarded as influential in setting White House policies.
        He was also an informal adviser to the administration of President Bush, suggesting names for appointments and policy ideas. He also was associated with the president's early efforts to promote religion-based initiatives across the country.
        Mr. Joyce is survived by his wife of 17 years, Mary Jo Repinski Joyce; two daughters, Mary Therese Joyce of Milwaukee and Angela R. Joyce of West Bend; a son, Martin M., of Milwaukee; a sister, Sheila M. Montgomery of Milwaukee; and two brothers, Timothy J., of Brewster, Mass., and Kevin F., of Seattle.
      