
        Owen Chamberlain, who shared a Nobel Prize for discovering the antiproton, opening a glimpse into the strange world of antimatter, whose mysteries tantalize scientists to this day, died Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Senta Pugh Chamberlain.
        Dr. Chamberlain, an emeritus professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley, had been determined enough to attend a departmental physics colloquium as recently as Monday, Mrs. Chamberlain said.
        The antiproton, discovered in 1955 by a team led by Dr. Chamberlain and another Berkeley physicist, Emilio Segrè, was the second bit of antimatter that physicists had created in what were then referred to as atom smashers.
        But as a sort of mirror-image of the proton -- one of two main components of the atomic nucleus -- the Berkeley particle captured the imaginations of physicists, who had already begun envisioning antimatter particles as routine counterparts of their more familiar twins. Scientists began asking things like why the universe ended up being made almost entirely of matter rather than antimatter, a question that has not yet been resolved.
        The antiproton also became a workhorse of experimental particle physics, as scientists later spent decades smashing it into protons in racetrack-shaped accelerators and measuring the sprays of weird new particles that emerged, producing what seemed to be an endless stream of Nobel Prizes.
        Dr. Chamberlain and Dr. Segrè, who died in 1989, received their prize in 1959.
        Steven Weinberg, a physics Nobelist at the University of Texas, said that while the existence of the antiproton had been predicted decades before the Berkeley experiments, the laboratory discovery of the particle was still highly anticipated.
        ''If it had not been discovered, the foundations of physics really would have crumbled,'' Dr. Weinberg said. He added that the antiproton ''was something like the South Pole: it's something that you know is there but you just have to get there anyway.''
        Owen Chamberlain was born in San Francisco on July 10, 1920. He received a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth in 1941 and entered graduate school at Berkeley before being recruited for the Manhattan Project.
        Dr. Chamberlain made lab measurements for the program and at one point accidentally exposed himself to radiation so powerful that he was forced to take a leave of absence.
        He traveled to Hiroshima after World War II ended and found the experience profoundly disturbing, Mrs. Chamberlain said. Dr. Chamberlain would later become active in numerous causes involving human rights, nonviolence, free speech and minority rights.
        Once the war was over, he went to the University of Chicago to work with Enrico Fermi, the Italian physicist, whom he had met in the Manhattan Project. He received a Ph.D. there in 1948.
        Dr. Chamberlain soon returned to teach at Berkeley, becoming a full professor in 1958.
        The physicists working in the Chamberlain-Segrè group at Berkeley included Gerson Goldhaber, whose brother, Maurice, is a noted theorist who raised questions about whether the antiproton existed after all. On a spur-of-the-moment bet at a party, Maurice Goldhaber had laid down $500 that the particle did not exist.
        ''If someone of the stature of Maurice thought maybe antiprotons didn't exist, then this was a real spur to showing they did,'' Dr. Chamberlain said later. ''And I think it was at that moment that I decided, 'By Jove, this is what I want to do.' ''
        Working at a powerful new accelerator called the Bevatron at what is now Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Dr. Chamberlain and his colleagues smashed ordinary protons into copper, producing streams of other particles spewed from the collisions.
        A few of those particles were just the same mass as protons, but they curved the opposite way in a magnetic field -- meaning that they carried a negative electrical charge, rather than the usual positive charge for protons -- and the antiproton had been discovered.
        A short while later, it was Gerson Goldhaber himself who used photographic emulsions to see the tracks of antiprotons encountering protons and magically annihilating in a little starburst, just as the theory said would happen when the two kinds of matter collided.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Chamberlain is survived by three daughters, Karen Chamberlain of Tampa, Fla.; Lynne Guenther of Ithaca, N.Y.; and Pia Chamberlain of San Jose, Calif.; and his son, Darol, also of Ithaca; all with his first wife, Beatrice Babette Copper, who died in 1988.
        He also is survived by two stepdaughters, Mary Pugh of Toronto and Anne Pugh of Oakland, Calif. Dr. Chamberlain's second wife, June Steingart Greenfield, died in 1991.
        Herbert Steiner, who worked on the experiments as a young student, said that Dr. Chamberlain was a magnet for students because he was approachable and always had a novel way to untangle complicated matters for the uninitiated. ''He would explain things, but in his own way,'' Dr. Steiner said. ''We called them Chamberlainisms.''
      