
        Bernard Lacoste, who inherited the Lacoste fashion company from his father, the French tennis champion René Lacoste, and directed its international expansion into a billion-dollar company recognizable by its signature crocodile logo, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Paris. He was 74.
        A spokeswoman for Lacoste in New York said yesterday that she could not provide a cause of death. An Associated Press report said Mr. Lacoste had been suffering from a ''serious illness'' for more than a year.
        Mr. Lacoste was president of the company, which began as a specialized tennis brand, for four decades starting in the 1960's, when he created a licensing program with manufacturers that made clothing with the crocodile logo available worldwide.
        The crocodile, taken from René Lacoste's nickname reflecting his tenacity on court, became a widely worn symbol of preppiness. But its mass exposure in time weakened its fashion status. American consumers had difficulty separating the image of the crocodile from the name Izod, the company that made and marketed the shirts in the United States.
        René Lacoste, who died in 1996, said the crocodile nickname came about because of reports in American newspapers about a bet he made with his team captain that he would win a critical match; the stakes were a crocodile-skin suitcase he had seen at a Boston store. A friend then embroidered a crocodile on a blazer that Mr. Lacoste wore on the courts.
        Mr. Lacoste also broke with the sport's traditions by popularizing the first short-sleeve polo shirts with pop-up collars during a match in 1928. In 1933 he founded his company with a series of white piqué styles based on those looks.
        By 1995, the company had sold more than 300 million shirts. Nowadays, the crocodile can be found on products including swimsuits, track pants, caps, belts, gloves, shoes and fragrances.
        Different companies produce Lacoste products in each market, including Brazil, China, France, India and the United States, resulting in some mutations in the styles, as Bernard Lacoste once acknowledged.
        For the American market, the shirt grew a longer tail in the back; the French preferred an even hemline that would look neat when worn untucked. In India, Lacoste offers crocodile-stamped kurtas. Some Lacoste logos appear with a spot of red at the opening of the crocodile's mouth. And there have often been questions whether the logo was a crocodile or an alligator.
        ''We don't mind what it is called in other countries,'' Mr. Lacoste said. ''It's definitely an alligator in America, while it's a crocodile in France.''
        It was not until Mr. Lacoste reined in the use of the logo in the 1990's and introduced a new designer, Christophe Lemaire, in 2000 that the brand began to regain some cachet among fashion-conscious consumers. To the label's sports heritage, Mr. Lemaire added music and street styles.
        In 2003, when a longstanding trademark dispute with a Hong Kong sportswear company that used a similar logo was concluded, Mr. Lacoste vigorously defended the company's rights to the crocodile, saying in a television interview, ''I think it has become something mythical and that it represents for the consumer a more quality product.''
        Mr. Lacoste arranged for the sponsorship of crocodiles at the Lisbon Zoo, stocked his office in Paris with crocodile sculptures from Rajasthan and China, and at a party at the Central Park Zoo in 2003 cuddled a baby alligator.
        Bernard Lacoste was born in Paris on June 22, 1931. He became president of his company in 1963, remaining active until last year, when he stepped down as chairman and chief executive, citing health problems. He was succeeded by a younger brother, Michel Lacoste.
        According to The Associated Press, Mr. Lacoste is also survived by his wife, Sachiko, and three children from an earlier marriage.
      