
        Dr. Lawrence M. Brass, a Yale neurologist and leader in the field of stroke research who played a major role in linking a common decongestant to a possible increased risk of strokes, died on March 8 at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 49.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said. They said he was a nonsmoker.
        The study of the decongestant was conducted at Yale in the 1990's and involved an ingredient then used in cold remedies and diet pills, the drug phenylpropanolamine, or PPA.
        At the time, there was uncertainty over the drug's safety, although several pharmaceutical companies maintained that it had been used for decades without evidence of significant harm.
        Yale's study was financed by drug companies, but the results, published in 2000 in The New England Journal of Medicine, were startling. The researchers found ''a substantially increased risk of stroke among people who had recently used PPA -- a risk that was particularly elevated among women who used appetite suppressants,'' said Dr. Ralph I. Horwitz, an internist and dean of Case Western Reserve University's medical school.
        Dr. Horwitz, who collaborated in the study and was previously chairman of Yale's department of medicine, continued: ''Lawrence Brass actually came up with the idea for the study and was actively involved in its design and conduct.''
        Controversy over potential problems with the drug continued, but after the Yale study and in light of other evidence, the Food and Drug Administration recommended in 2000 that manufacturers remove the drug from their products.
        In another study, conducted at Yale from 1993 to 2001, Dr. Brass and others investigated the potential benefits of estrogen for postmenopausal women who had already suffered strokes. Dr. Brass initially proposed that estrogen might reduce the risks of a secondary stroke, but the results showed no benefit for women taking the hormone.
        In other work, Dr. Brass looked at the use of a blood thinner, warfarin, as a treatment for irregular heartbeat and at the incidence of elevated blood glucose among stroke patients.
        Throughout his career, he was interested in studying large populations of patients and helped to develop a computer database containing details from about six million stroke cases.
        Lawrence Mitchell Brass was born in Brooklyn. He earned an undergraduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania and his medical degree from Tufts.
        After training at Columbia and the Neurological Institute of New York, he arrived at Yale as an assistant professor of neurology in 1987. He was named clinical director of the Yale Stroke Program the next year, and became a professor of neurology in 1996. More recently, he held an additional appointment as a professor of epidemiology and public health.
        Dr. Brass is survived by his wife of 19 years, the former Lori Ann Haubenstock, and their sons, Zachary and Schuyler. He is also survived by his parents, Melvin and Joyce Brass, of Islip Terrace, N.Y.; and by two sisters, Jill Brass, of Albany, and Susan McInerney, of Bohemia, N.Y.
      