
        Dan Curtis, a prolific television producer and director who was best known for shepherding two of the most ambitious mini-series ever made, ''The Winds of War,'' and ''War and Remembrance,'' onto ABC in the 1980's, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 78.
        The cause was brain cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Curtis worked in television for more than four decades on a variety of projects, including westerns, horror movies and golf coverage. He also produced or directed an unusual number of cult television classics, ranging from the memorable, like the original ''Dark Shadows'' soap opera in the 1960's and the film ''The Night Stalker,'' to the forgettable, like one of the most infamous flops of all time, the 1979 NBC series ''Supertrain.''
        Mr. Curtis's most recent work came just last year, when he produced and directed two movies: ''Saving Milly,'' based on the columnist Morton Kondracke's memoir about his wife's battle with Parkinson's disease, and ''Our Fathers,'' which examined the sexual abuse scandal among priests in the Boston Archdiocese.
        Mr. Curtis was born Daniel Cherkoss in Bridgeport, Conn., and educated at Syracuse University. He began his career in television in 1950 as a salesman for syndicated shows. A golf lover, he created ''Challenge Golf'' with Arnold Palmer and Gary Player in the early 1960's, and later ''The CBS Match Play Golf Classic,'' which ran for a decade. He moved into the creative side of television in 1966, when he came up with the idea for ''Dark Shadows,'' a daytime soap opera on ABC featuring vampires and other gothic characters.
        The show became an enormous hit, and in the early 1970's Mr. Curtis directed two feature films based on the characters. He continued working in the horror genre by often teaming up with the ''Twilight Zone'' writer Richard Matheson. The two men collaborated on the original ''Night Stalker'' movie with Darren McGavin.
        Mr. Curtis and Mr. Matheson also worked together on a project for ABC called ''Trilogy of Terror,'' which was remembered by a generation of fans for an Indian doll that left viewers limp with fright.
        In 1979, Fred Silverman, the chairman of NBC at the time, commissioned Mr. Curtis to produce his idea for an ambitious series portraying adventures aboard a cross-country luxury train. The cost of the series, ''Supertrain,'' was extravagant: it featured a massive set consisting of various train cars. And it was canceled after just nine episodes. Asked about it later in his career, Mr. Curtis usually answered, ''Super what?''
        But only because the show failed so quickly was he available when Barry Diller, then running the Paramount Studio, brought him in to direct and produce an 18-hour adaptation of the Herman Wouk bestseller ''The Winds of War,'' starring Robert Mitchum and Ali McGraw. The film, which traced the origins of World War II, set ratings records for ABC. ''He was full-throated, full-bodied, sure of himself, commanding -- a great general,'' Mr. Diller said Monday.
        Mr. Curtis followed that success with an even bigger mini-series, an adaptation of Mr. Wouk's sequel, ''War and Remembrance.'' Lasting 30 hours, it remains the longest mini-series ever made for network television. Mr. Curtis won an Emmy Award for the production.
        He is survived by two daughters. His wife, Norma, died earlier this month.
        Correction:  April 1, 2006, Saturday  An obituary of the television producer Dan Curtis on Wednesday misstated Fred Silverman's position with NBC in 1979, when he commissioned Mr. Curtis to produce a series called ''Supertrain.'' He was president of the network, not chairman.
      