
        Dominic J. Baranello, an enduring power in Democratic Party affairs of Suffolk County and New York State since he played a big role in Hugh L. Carey's winning the governorship in 1974, died on Thursday in Smithtown, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Blue Point, N.Y.
        The death was announced by Richard H. Schaffer, his successor as leader of the Suffolk Democratic organization. According to his family, the cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Baranello stepped down in 2000 after 34 years as the Suffolk County Democratic chairman, celebrated as the longest-serving Democratic Party leader in the country.
        He was one of the first New Yorkers consulted by Hillary Rodham Clinton as she started her quest for the Senate. Aside from having seniority as a party elder, he had the reputation of a scrappy strategist who had overcome the Republicans' two-to-one registration advantage in Suffolk to help his party win the county executive's office and three of Suffolk's Congressional seats in the mid-1980's.
        From the days of Lyndon B. Johnson's presidency, Democrats seeking an office in Suffolk County usually consulted Mr. Baranello. He buttressed his influence in Democratic politics statewide as an early supporter of Mr. Carey's candidacy for the Statehouse in Albany.
        After Mr. Carey won the election, he returned the favor by backing Mr. Baranello for the chairmanship of the state Democratic Party. In 1982, Mr. Baranello endorsed Mayor Edward I. Koch for governor over Mario M. Cuomo, then the lieutenant governor, but Mr. Cuomo went on to win and stripped Mr. Baranello of the statewide chairmanship.
        ''It's like betting on a horse,'' he said at the time. ''Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.''
        Dominic Joseph Baranello was raised in Medford, N.Y.; his father was a highway laborer and native of Italy. He said he became a convinced Democrat while listening with his father to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's fireside chats on the radio.
        He graduated from Brooklyn College and got his law degree at Brooklyn Law School in 1951.
        In 2000, he accepted a patronage job with Suffolk Off-Track Betting, saying ''it was time to do something else,'' and announced he would not seek an 18th two-year term as county chairman, opening the way for his successor, Mr. Schaffer, a protégé and the town supervisor of Babylon.
        Mr. Baranello is survived by his wife of 24 years, Patricia Ellis Baranello; two sons, Dominic Jr. of Kings Park, N.Y., and Stephen of Medford; a daughter, Christina Wood of Fort Myers, Fla.; two brothers, Angelo, of Medford, and Daniel, of Yaphank, N.Y.; two sisters, Emily Germano of North Charleston, S.C., and Letitia DeVeau of Hicksville, Ohio; two stepsons, Raymond E. Garafola of Centereach, N.Y., and Ralph Garafola of Ridge, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Susan Garafola of Centereach; and five grandchildren.
      