
        Peter Osgood, a star of English soccer in the late 1960's and early 70's, and a glamorous figure for the Chelsea club, died Wednesday after collapsing at a family funeral in Slough, near London. He was 59.
        Osgood's death was announced by Chelsea. The Guardian and The Daily Telegraph newspapers said he had a heart attack.
        At 6 feet 2 inches, handsome with distinctive sideburns, Osgood cut a dashing form at his center forward spot for Chelsea, which attracted its share of celebrity fans in what became known as Swinging London in the 1960's.
        ''Those were the days -- when Raquel Welch walked along the touchline to wave goodbye to me in the middle of a match, when Steve McQueen would come into the dressing room and exchange gossip as he sat on the edge of the bath,'' British newspapers recently quoted Osgood as recalling.
        Known as the King of Stamford Bridge, for Chelsea's home stadium, Osgood scored 150 goals in 380 games for Chelsea, the third-highest total in club history, and he played key roles in Chelsea's first F.A. Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup championships. He later helped Southampton capture an F.A. Cup title.
        Osgood, a native of Windsor, Berkshire, made his debut with Chelsea in 1964. Appearing in the 1970 Football Association Cup final at Old Trafford stadium in Manchester, he scored on a memorable diving header with 10 minutes remaining in regulation time, tying Chelsea's replay match with Leeds United at 1-1. Chelsea captured the championship on David Webb's goal in extra time. Osgood scored in every round of the F.A. Cup competition, the last player to accomplish that feat.
        The following season, Osgood scored a goal to help Chelsea defeat Real Madrid, 2-1, in a Cup Winners' Cup final, a replay of a tie with Real Madrid in which he had scored.
        Osgood played in four international matches for England and was a member of its 1970 World Cup team.
        In March 1974, Chelsea sold Osgood to Southampton for a reported $645,500. He played in Southampton's 1-0 upset of Manchester United in the 1976 F.A. Cup final, then took the trophy home with him. As Mick Channon, a striker on the Southampton team, told The Daily Telegraph: ''He even finished up in the early hours of that morning flashing it at a motorway cafe before bringing it back safe and sound.''
        He later played for the Philadelphia Fury of the North American Soccer League, then returned to Chelsea in 1978 and retired a year later.
        Osgood, who lived in Waltham Chase, near Southampton, is survived by his third wife, Lynnette, and three children.
        After his playing days, he owned a pub, worked in corporate relations for Chelsea and was an after-dinner speaker.
        Although a celebrity in his own right, Osgood was awed by glitter beyond the soccer world. He once told The Daily Telegraph how McQueen was waiting for him in the locker room after he broke the 100-goal milestone for Chelsea and how he later concluded: ''What's 100 league goals compared to a visit from the most famous movie star in the world?''
      