
        Danny Perasa, a nimble-witted leprechaun of a man who captivated radio listeners across the nation with goofy, slyly wise stories, most touchingly about his romance with the woman who became his wife, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn.
        He was 67, and died in the arms of that woman, Annie Perasa. The cause was pancreatic cancer resulting from diabetes, she said.
        Mr. Perasa was a member of the office staff at The New York Times for 34 years, then worked for the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation. But, in a sense, his true life's work was storytelling. Indeed, he and his wife became beloved among National Public Radio listeners who relish great stories. On Aug. 11, 2004, the 27th anniversary of the day they met, those listeners heard him tell of their snap engagement.
        ''I says, 'If we're going anywhere, we're going down the aisle, because I'm too tired, too sick and too sore' '' to do anything else, Mr. Perasa said. ''And she turned around and said, 'Oh, of course, I'll marry you.' ''
        On Friday, as the semiconscious Mr. Perasa was dying, NPR broadcast words the couple recorded a week earlier, speaking of their love and his fate. ''She lights up my life when she says to me at night, 'Would you like a little ice cream?' '' Mr. Perasa said. ''These aren't very romantic things to say, but they stir my heart.''
        Within hours, NPR's ''Morning Edition'' received more than 350 e-mail messages, a tally that has since risen to more than 1,000, said Ellen McDonnell, executive producer of the program.
        Many were moved to hear that he had left a love letter each morning on their kitchen table. A man wrote that he had decided not to separate from his wife as he had planned. Women said just-applied mascara had been hopelessly smeared by tears. Not a few listeners voiced faith that love lasts for all eternity.
        The Perasas had long recounted their adventures through StoryCorps, an organization that seeks to capture the life experiences of ordinary people. Participants enter soundproof booths to spin tales that StoryCorps hopes will become a national oral history. Discs of interviews go to the Library of Congress, and some of the more interesting ones go to NPR.
        Because of the popularity of their story, the Perasas were invited to a cocktail party at the Library of Congress and traveled on behalf of StoryCorps. On Feb. 10, the organization dedicated its booth in Grand Central Terminal to the Perasas. Only one other of its five booths has been named for a person, and that was for the writer Studs Terkel.
        Mr. Perasa's therapy for diabetes was very long walks. On some, he was accompanied by this reporter, who often sought his wisdom. ''Just because somebody does something outrageous doesn't mean it's wrong,'' Mr. Perasa said while in Staten Island in 1992.
        Mr. Perasa philosophized and recited baseball statistics in a Brooklyn argot that was fast-fading. For St. Patrick's Day, he dyed his beard green; on New Year's Eve, he wore a diaper and a sash.
        Daniel Anthony Perasa was born on Oct. 9, 1938, in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn, where he spent most of his life. The doctor who delivered him predicted that the weak baby would live no more than five years. As it happened, the doctor died on Oct. 9, 1943, the very day Danny was not supposed to see.
        ''It was my first funeral,'' Mr. Perasa said. ''I enjoyed it immensely.''
        His father, Anthony, was a steamfitter on the Brooklyn docks. His father died after 24 years of marriage, and his mother, the former Mary Mennahan, went to work for 10 years before becoming a nun for her final 24 years.
        ''There was something about the number 25 she couldn't handle,'' Danny Perasa said.
        As a boy, Danny attended Catholic schools, went to 100 Brooklyn Dodgers games by himself before he was 12, and had a dog named Nuisance. He left Queensborough Community College a couple of credits short of a degree. He was a copyboy first at The New York Journal-American, then at The Times, where he worked in communications.
        He last worked for Off-Track Betting, taking bets on the telephone.
        In his account to StoryCorps, Mr. Perasa said that the momentous first date with Anne Dawson was at a restaurant on the 43rd floor of a building. He told The Times that they had gone to Eddie Condon's jazz bar.
        Whichever was the case, he quickly realized that the stories of Miss Dawson, a nurse, were at least equal to his. She told of treating Leo Durocher, the baseball manager, in a hospital. Mr. Durocher tried to get her to say hello to someone on the telephone. She picked up the phone and said she was too busy administering enemas to talk. Frank Sinatra, on the other line, laughed uproariously.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Perasa is survived by his sister, Mary Perasa, of Brooklyn.
        ''Maybe I've still got the instincts and intellect of a 6-year-old,'' Mr. Perasa said when he was 63, ''and maybe I'm better off for it.''
      