
        Cindy Walker, a country songwriter whose pure, plainspoken lyrics of romance, heartbreak and picturesque prairies were recorded by major artists like Bing Crosby, Elvis Presley and Willie Nelson, making Top-40 country or pop charts more than 400 times, died on March 23 in Mexia, Tex.
        She was 87, but did not broadcast her birthdate any more than the brief marriage she sometimes confirmed and sometimes did not. Her niece Carol Adams reported her death, The Associated Press said.
        Until the 1990's, it was easier to count the number of country stars who had not recorded Cindy Walker songs than those who had, Texas Monthly observed in 1999. She had Top 10 hits in every decade from the 1940's to the 1980's.
        Even as country music veered in louder, brasher directions, her continuing appeal to traditionalists is suggested by Mr. Nelson's release this year of an album of her songs, ''You Don't Know Me: The Songs of Cindy Walker.''
        The title song was a hit for Eddy Arnold in 1956, Ray Charles in 1962 and Mickey Gilley in 1981, and was re-recorded by Mr. Charles with Diana Krall for his best-selling 2004 album of duets, ''Genius Loves Company.'' Presley, Van Morrison, Patti Page, Roy Orbison, Kenny Rogers and Emmylou Harris are among others who have recorded the tune.
        It told of a man too shy to tell his true feelings to a female friend:
        You give your hand to me
        And then you say hello
        And I can hardly speak
        My heart is beating so
        And anyone could tell
        You think you know me well,
        But you don't know me.
        Writing on a floral-patterned typewriter, she produced a string of other sentimental standards like ''Cherokee Maiden,'' ''In the Misty Moonlight,'' ''Dream Baby,'' ''Jim, I Wore a Tie Today'' and ''Distant Drums.'' Gene Autry and other singing cowboys crooned her lyrics onscreen, and Bob Wills, patron saint of western swing, recorded more than 50 of her tunes, some of which he helped write.
        Her songs have many times crossed over to pop to be recorded by Bette Midler, the Byrds, Cher and Michael Bolton, among other stars.
        Harlan Howard, himself often called the greatest country songwriter, deferred to Ms. Walker when both were inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1997. He called her ''the greatest living songwriter of country music.''
        Fred Foster, Mr. Orbison's producer and the discoverer of Dolly Parton, the only woman songwriter whose output rivals Ms. Walker's, said in an interview with The Austin American-Statesman in 2004, ''Cindy Walker has never written a bad song in her life.''
        Howard once called a great country song ''three chords and the truth,'' and Ms. Walker's life sounds as if it springs from that formula. A granddaughter of the hymn writer F. L. Eiland (''Hold to God's Unchanging Hand''), she was born on July 20, 1918, on a farm near Mart, Tex. By age 12, she was composing songs on her Martin guitar.
        On a family trip to Hollywood in 1940, she barged into Bing Crosby's studio and sold him a song, ''Lone Star Trail,'' which he recorded. Within weeks, she had her own record deal, with Decca.
        From 1942 to 1944, she wrote 39 songs for Wills's western movies; was a movie actress herself; and, in 1944, wrote her first Top-10 country hit, ''You're From Texas,'' which Wills performed. She also recorded a hit herself in 1944, ''When My Blue Moon Turns to Gold Again,'' a song she did not write.
        In 1954, she moved to Mexia, near her East Texas birthplace. There she lived in a modest three-bedroom house with her mother, Oree, and rose at dawn, made herself black coffee and went upstairs to write.
        She was as proficient at pushing songs as writing them. Each year for decades, she and her mother would set up shop in an apartment in Nashville for five months or so to market songs. They would sweeten deals by inviting music industry people by for a plate or two of her mother's delectable Southern cooking.
        Oree Walker was her best friend and, until her death, in 1991, worked out melodies for her daughter's words. Some suggested that Ms. Walker's declining output in later years was a result of Oree's absence.
        Ms. Walker guarded her privacy. When she granted interviews, she stipulated that her age not be given. She worried that she might be regarded as too old to write contemporary songs.
        Many articles about her, often based on interviews, say she never married. In an interview with The New York Times this year, however, she said she had had a ''short-lived marriage'' but declined to discuss it. She is survived by three nieces.
        Ms. Walker did not consider herself a feminist pioneer; she often said that the music industry would welcome a potential hit written by anyone, even an orangutan. She declined to hang her awards on the wall. She kept them under her bed.
        ''Worldly things were of little meaning,'' her niece Ms. Adams told The Associated Press. ''She lived for hamburgers, ice cream, pencil and paper.''
      