
        Philip B. Kunhardt Jr., a former managing editor of Life magazine who later became known as a writer and producer of historical documentaries for television, died on Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 78 and also lived in Hancock, Me.
        The cause was complications of pulmonary fibrosis, his son Peter said.
        With Peter and another son, Philip B. III, the elder Mr. Kunhardt (pronounced KOON-hart) was part of Kunhardt Productions, a family-run filmmaking enterprise based in Chappaqua.
        The Kunhardts' films include ''Freedom,'' an eight-hour series broadcast on PBS stations in 2003; ''The American President,'' a 10-hour series shown on PBS on 2000; and ''P. T. Barnum,'' a three-hour biography shown on the Discovery Channel in 1995.
        Mr. Kunhardt wrote more than a dozen books. Several, written with his sons, are companion volumes to the films. He also wrote two memoirs of his parents, ''My Father's House'' (Random House, 1970) and ''The Dreaming Game'' (Riverhead Books, 2004), about his mother, Dorothy M. Kunhardt, the children's author known for the classic picture book ''Pat the Bunny,'' published in 1940.
        The family penchant for collaboration, documentation and accumulation extends back generations. In the late 19th century, Mr. Kunhardt's maternal grandfather, Frederick Hill Meserve, began collecting photographs from the Civil War, which he hoped to use to illustrate the diary of his father, a former Union officer.
        The Meserve-Kunhardt Collection, as it is now known, grew to include rare glass negatives of Abraham Lincoln by Mathew Brady and other memorabilia. It passed to Mr. Kunhardt's mother, then to Mr. Kunhardt. It has inspired much of the family's work, including two books Mr. Kunhardt wrote with his mother: ''Twenty Days'' (Harper & Row, 1965), about Lincoln's assassination, and ''Mathew Brady and His World'' (Time-Life Books, 1977).
        Philip Bradish Kunhardt Jr. was born in Manhattan on Feb. 5, 1928. He grew up in Morristown, N.J., in a house that was lighted by lamps from the parlor where Lincoln was married. He earned an undergraduate degree in humanities from Princeton in 1950 and afterward joined Life magazine as a reporter.
        After Life ceased publication in 1972, Mr. Kunhardt, by then an assistant managing editor, worked on other Time Inc. magazines, including People. In 1978, when Life was revived as a monthly, Mr. Kunhardt was named managing editor. He retired in 1982.
        Mr. Kunhardt is survived by his wife, the former Katharine Trowbridge, whom he married in 1950; a sister, Edith Kunhardt Davis, a well-known author and illustrator of children's books; six children: Philip B. III, of Waccabuc, N.Y.; Peter, of Chappaqua; Jean Herschkowitz of Manhattan; Sandra Basile of East Greenwich, R.I.; Sarah Horton of Northampton, Mass.; and Michael, of Brunswick, Me.; and 18 grandchildren.
      