
        Robert C. Baker, an agricultural scientist who looked at chickens and envisioned chicken nuggets, not to mention chicken hotdogs, helping transform what is now a $29 billion poultry industry, died on Monday at his home in North Lansing, N.Y. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son Dale.
        Cornell University hired Dr. Baker in 1957 as a professor and as a liaison to growers and marketers. His mission was to find ways to persuade people to eat more poultry, rather than viewing chickens as just egg-laying machines or Sunday luxuries. He took them to places no bird had been before, including the sausage department.
        It was part of a fundamental transformation of the poultry business. It was after World War II that plucked chickens became generally available in supermarkets, and prepackaged chicken parts arrived only in the late 1960's. Now more than 40 percent of chicken sales involve processed meat, like patties and nuggets.
        Among the more than 50 chicken products that Dr. Baker and his team of technicians and graduate students developed were chicken baloney, chicken steak, chicken salami, chicken chili, chicken hash, chicken pastrami and chicken ham. He performed similar magic for turkeys and eggs, doing some of the earliest work on frozen omelets.
        Part of the magic lay in extracting all the meat from the poultry carcass and reshaping it. In 1982, Forbes magazine credited Dr. Baker with having invented processed chicken in 1963. De-boning machines, which Dr. Baker helped develop, made the new shapes possible -- even nuggets in the form of dinosaurs.
        Just about all these foods found their way into supermarkets, though some took more than a decade to do so. The new products promised convenience to harried households, and they used chicken parts -- including backs, necks and skin -- that would otherwise have gone to waste.
        ''Robert Baker is something of a chicken Edison,'' The New York Times reported in 1984 in discussing the transformation of the industry.
        Glenn Froning, professor emeritus of food science and technology at the University of Nebraska, said Dr. Baker's contributions ranged from basic research on microbiology to marketing strategies.
        ''He stimulated a lot of the early work in developing new products,'' Dr. Froning said.
        Chicken hotdogs were a particular success, though naming them was problematic: in virtually equal numbers, women preferred ''chicken franks,'' and men liked ''bird dogs.''
        McDonald's is often given credit for inventing chicken nuggets in 1979, but the groundwork was laid by Dr. Baker's contributions in the 1960's in developing ways to bind chicken meat together and make the coating stick to the reconstituted meat.
        McDonald's version sold. Dr. Baker's did not, but Cornell was interested only in promoting agriculture and shared its research freely in detailed bulletins and consultations. The professor said in an interview with The Ithaca Journal that he had particularly enjoyed his collaborations with Frank Perdue.
        Among Dr. Baker's innovations were ways to barbecue chicken, helping establish what was for many people a new and enjoyable ritual. He went to every county in New York State to promote barbecued chicken, and sold it for many years at the annual state fair in Syracuse.
        Robert Carl Baker was born on Dec. 29, 1921, in Newark, N.Y. His family scraped by on sporadic earnings from an orchard and 400 or so chickens. His mother made chicken and biscuits every Sunday.
        Dr. Baker admitted that his experiences with poultry as a youth were far removed from today's mass-produced poultry products. He said to The Times:
        ''Some people say the flavor used to be better. I grew up on a farm. We'd chop the head off the chicken and it would bounce around the yard and lay there for a while before we picked it up; then we'd scoop it into a pail and it would lie in the house a bit before my mother would get around to cooking it. Probably it did taste different. But do you want to put up with that to get the taste?''
        He received his bachelor's degree from Cornell in 1943, majoring in pomology, the science of fruits, and then got a master's in marketing from Pennsylvania State University. In 1957, he took a yearlong sabbatical to earn a Ph.D. in food science.
        He joined Cornell's faculty in 1957, and in 1970 founded the university's Institute of Food Science and Marketing, of which he was director until 1975. It was here that he honed his awareness of the importance of naming foods.
        For example, when students at Ithaca High School were served minced-fish-in-tomato-sauce, made from a trash fish, they revolted. But when Dr. Baker's team changed the name to sloppy Jonah, they loved it.
        While in college, Dr. Baker met Jacoba Munson, whom he married in 1944. He often brought home a product he had invented for her to cook.
        ''Some of it was really bad,'' his son said, mentioning an early version of chicken bologna.
        Dr. Baker is survived by his wife; his sons Dale, of Lansing, and Kermit, of Boston; his daughters Regina Robbins of Knoxville, Reenie Sandsted and Johanna Baker, both of Lansing, and Karen Applebee of Towanda, Pa.; 12 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Dale noted that there were still few chickens on the fruit farm his parents operated.
        ''I'm trying to figure out what to do with them,'' he said. ''Do you want some chickens?''
      