
        Alfredo Silipigni, a conductor and specialist in lesser-known Italian operas who founded the New Jersey State Opera and ran it for four decades, died on Saturday in Livingston, N.J. He was 74 and lived in West Orange, N.J.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Astera Argyris, a spokeswoman for the company.
        Mr. Silipigni, a dapper figure of old-world elegance with his pencil-thin mustache, manicured nails and ascot, was as meticulous with his productions as he was with his appearance. Before conducting works like Leoncavallo's ''Zazà,'' Cilea's ''Adriana Lecouvreur'' and Verdi's ''Attila,'' he did painstaking research. For a production of ''Tosca'' six years ago, he matched the color of choir robes used in Rome in 1800.
        Often, the works had not been heard in the United States for decades before Mr. Silipigni presented them, turning Newark, where the company was based, into a destination for lovers of verismo and operatic obscurities.
        He also did things on a grand scale. In 2000, he conducted two performances of ''Aida'' before tens of thousands of people at a stadium in Shanghai, with a cast put at 3,000. Alfredo Silipigni was born in Atlantic City on April 9, 1931, a son of Italian immigrants. He attended the Westminster Choir College in Princeton and the Juilliard School. He made his Carnegie Hall debut at 25 with the NBC Symphony Orchestra, and went on to conduct at the Vienna State Opera and the English National Opera, among others.
        But his home was in New Jersey. In 1965, an amateur troupe, the Opera Theater of Westfield, asked him to take charge, and he set about turning it into a professional operation.
        Many singers with big reputations chose to sing with Mr. Silipigni and his modest company. Beverly Sills, Birgit Nilsson, Anna Moffo and Plácido Domingo were a few.
        Mr. Silipigni is survived by his wife, Gloria; three children, Marisa, Elisabetta and Alfred; a brother, Richard; and two grandchildren.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 2000, Mr. Silipigni said his goal at the start of his career was to make great music. ''Now, that just seems grand and pompous,'' he said. ''I conduct for myself. If it is not what consumes me, then it doesn't work for me.''
        Correction:  April 11, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on March 29 about Alfredo Silipigni, a conductor who founded the New Jersey State Opera, included an erroneous name supplied by the State Opera for the orchestra with which he made his conducting debut at Carnegie Hall at the age of 25. It was the Symphony of the Air. (The NBC Symphony Orchestra was a predecessor organization.)
      