
        Donelson Hoopes, an authority on 19th- and 20th-century American paintings and a curator who helped restore the reputation of John Singer Sargent in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at a hospital in Bangor, Me. He was 73 and lived in Steuben, on the Maine coast.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, said Joerg-Henner Lotze, Mr. Hoopes's friend and executor.
        In books and articles, Mr. Hoopes, an art historian, wrote extensively about the watercolors of artists like Sargent, Winslow Homer and Thomas Eakins, characterizing their work as ''the American medium.''
        Donelson Farquhar Hoopes was born in Philadelphia and attended the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. After service in the Army he studied at the University of Florence and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1960, when he was named director of the Portland Museum of Art in Maine.
        In 1962 he became a curator at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington. Two years later he helped return Sargent to his place in the front ranks of American artists by mounting a well-received loan exhibition titled ''The Private World of John Singer Sargent.'' Sargent (1856-1925) was best known for his portraiture but lost favor for having clung to his style of realism when Impressionism conquered the art scene.
        The critic Stuart Preston wrote in The New York Times that the Washington exhibition did ''much to redeem the name of a painter whose reputation declined severely, and perhaps inevitably, after his death in 1925.''
        Mr. Hoopes later served on the Committee for the Preservation of the White House for several years.
        From 1965 to 1969 he was the curator of paintings and sculpture at the Brooklyn Museum. In the 1970's, he worked as senior curator of American art at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and visiting curator in charge of the American Galleries at the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum in San Francisco. From 1983 until his retirement in 1997 he directed the Thomas Cole Foundation and its mission to preserve Cole's home, Cedar Grove, in Catskill, N.Y.
        Mr. Lotze said Mr. Hoopes had left his home in Steuben to the Eagle Hill Foundation and the Humboldt Field Research Institute to be used as a writers' retreat for art historians, with a studio for artists in residence. Mr. Hoopes was a foundation board member and an adviser to the institute, of which Mr. Lotze is the director.
        No immediate family members survive.
      