
        Charles Newman, an avant-garde novelist and critic who in 1964 turned a campus publication at Northwestern University into the prestigious literary magazine TriQuarterly and was its editor for more than a decade, died on March 15 in St. Louis. He was 67 and lived in St. Louis and Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, Mr. Newman's nephew Ben Ryder Howe said. At his death, Mr. Newman was a professor of English at Washington University in St. Louis, where he had taught since 1985.
        Mr. Newman, who arrived at Northwestern in 1964 as a young instructor in the English department, is credited as the first official editor of TriQuarterly, which began in 1958 as a student and faculty magazine. Under his stewardship, it became an international journal showcasing the world's most eminent writers.
        TriQuarterly still appears three times a year. It has published Jorge Luis Borges, Gabriel García Márquez, Carlos Fuentes, William H. Gass, Joyce Carol Oates, Cynthia Ozick, Raymond Carver, Anne Sexton, W. S. Merwin and John Ashbery.
        Mr. Newman, its editor until 1975, also wrote several experimental novels, including ''White Jazz'' (1984) and ''The Promisekeeper: A Tephramancy'' (1971).
        (Praised by critics for his mordant wit and pyrotechnic use of language, Mr. Newman reveled in the knowing, self-referential asides that were a hallmark of postmodern style. Thus, it is only fitting to interrupt his obituary here to explain that ''tephramancy'' -- also spelled ''tephromancy'' and pronounced TEFF-ruh-man-see -- means divination by means of ashes, especially those from an altar or ruined temple.)
        Mr. Newman also wrote two nonfiction books. The first, ''A Child's History of America'' (1973), is sometimes described as a travel memoir, sometimes as beyond category. The second, ''The Post-Modern Aura: The Act of Fiction in an Age of Inflation'' (1985), is a critical essay in which he argued that literature, like other late-20th-century commodities, had become devalued.
        Charles Hamilton Newman was born in St. Louis on May 27, 1938, and grew up in the Chicago area. He earned a bachelor's degree in American studies from Yale in 1960 and afterward studied politics and economics at Oxford as a Fulbright scholar. For several years in the late 70's, Mr. Newman directed the Writing Seminars at Johns Hopkins University.
        Sometimes likened to the work of William S. Burroughs and Thomas Pynchon, Mr. Newman's novels explore soullessness and atomization amid the ruined temple of postmodern life. Critical response was divided, often within a single review. Perhaps this was the point: he succeeded in atomizing even the individual critic, who fractured and flew apart with the effort of interpretation.
        Mr. Newman's other fiction includes ''There Must Be More to Love Than Death: Three Short Novels'' (1976) and ''New Axis: Or, The Little Ed Stories, an Exhibition'' (1966). He also edited critical studies of Vladimir Nabokov and Sylvia Plath.
        Mr. Newman was married and divorced five times. He is survived by a sister, June Howe, of Cambridge, Mass., and two nephews.
        Correction:  April 7, 2006, Friday  An obituary on March 22 about Charles Newman, an avant-garde novelist and the first editor of the literary magazine TriQuarterly, misstated the year he began teaching at Washington University in St. Louis. It was 1983, not 1985.
      