
        Dr. James H. Schwartz, a neurobiologist at Columbia whose research helped explain the biochemical basis of learning and memory, died on March 13 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 73.
        The cause was complications of leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Schwartz was interested in the notion that changes in the electrochemical switches within the brain cause shifts in the function of brain circuits, leading to different behaviors. He studied sea slugs as a model for brain function in more complex animals.
        Much of his work involved the origins, at the cellular and molecular level, of learning and animal behaviors.
        Dr. Schwartz and others observed that learning was associated with changes in the structure of chromatin, a basic material found within a cell, in some neurons.
        With Dr. Eric R. Kandel and Thomas M. Jessell, Dr. Schwartz edited an influential textbook, ''Principles of Neural Science'' (1979), for medical students and neuroscientists. It is now about to enter its fifth edition.
        The book became ''a standard of basic neuroscience, with a focus on how the nervous system generates and controls behavior'' and includes clinical descriptions of neurological and psychiatric disorders, said John Koester, acting director of Columbia's Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, which Dr. Schwartz helped found in 1974.
        Dr. Kandel, a Columbia scientist who shared the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 2000, said Dr. Schwartz had been ''a pioneer in studying the chemistry of memory storage -- especially short-term memory storage -- and was a cultured scientist.''
        Also a scholar of ancient coinage and medals, Dr. Schwartz collected and studied coins and gems from antiquity and published papers in the journal of the American Numismatic Society. Broadly interested in contacts between Greco-Roman and barbarian cultures, he specialized in collecting and describing coins struck by the Vandals in northern Africa in the fifth century.
        In addition, he studied gems and amulets, most originating in Egypt and the eastern Mediterranean and dating from the second to the fourth centuries. Many were thought to have magical or curative properties.
        Dr. Schwartz's research on these artifacts was ''an attempt to grasp man's perception of his role in a world he did not understand,'' said William E. Metcalf, curator of coins and medals at the Yale University Art Gallery.
        In 2000, Dr. Schwartz raised concerns about the Numismatic Society's plans to move from its home on 155th Street in Manhattan to a site downtown and to offer buyouts to the curatorial staff. To balance a budget deficit, the society moved to Fulton Street. Dr. Schwartz helped raise money for the society and was named a trustee in 2002. He was also a fellow at Columbia's Center for the Ancient Mediterranean.
        James Harris Schwartz was born in Manhattan. He received an undergraduate degree from Columbia and a medical degree from New York University. In 1964, he earned a doctorate from Rockefeller University.
        Dr. Schwartz was named an assistant professor of microbiology at N.Y.U. the same year and became a professor of microbiology in 1972. He joined Columbia as a professor in 1974 and held appointments in physiology, cellular biophysics, psychiatry and neurology.
        He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. From 1984 to 1991, he was also an investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
        Dr. Schwartz is survived by his wife, Dr. Catherine Lipkin, who tutors the disabled. The couple lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. His first wife, Frances, died in 1984.
        He is also survived by a daughter, Daisy Salzman, of San Francisco; a son, Peter, of Boston; a stepson, Jonathan Lipkin, of Brooklyn; and five grandchildren.
      