
        Andrew Sherratt, a British archaeologist whose explorations of animal husbandry and other civilizing practices shed light on European prehistory, died Feb. 24 near his home in Witney, Oxfordshire. He was 59.
        The cause was heart failure, said a spokeswoman for the University of Sheffield, where Dr. Sherratt became a professor of Old World prehistory last year.
        A researcher of eclectic interests, he studied the use of alcohol and narcotics in prehistory and the monumental arrangements of standing stones known as megaliths, but was most widely known for his work with the origins of animal products like milk and wool.
        Dr. Sherratt and others theorized that renewable products from animals brought on a lasting shift in Europe's prehistory, beginning around 3500 B.C.
        Animals had probably been domesticated about 3,000 years earlier, but were then used chiefly as sources of meat, bones and hides. At the end of the Neolithic period and the beginning of the Bronze Age, Europeans began to value animals as a sustainable resource for secondary products and agricultural labor.
        In the landmark 1981 essay ''Plough and Pastoralism: Aspects of the Secondary Products Revolution,'' Dr. Sherratt proposed that milk, textiles and animal traction for plowing had spurred profound advances in trade, social organization and land management, opening the European mind to ''the huge animal potential for renewable wealth,'' said Haskel J. Greenfield, a professor of anthropology at the University of Manitoba.
        In the 1980's, Dr. Greenfield tested the theory by looking at the demographics of animal bones sifted from archaeological sites in the Balkans and found ''that essentially Sherratt was correct when he described a dramatic shift in the way that animals in Europe were managed.''
        In other work, Dr. Sherratt, who had been an assistant keeper of antiquities at Oxford's Ashmolean Museum, edited The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Archaeology (1980) and contributed to comparative studies of Europe's prehistoric contact with China and of the archaeology of Turkey. He sometimes wrote research papers with his wife, Susan, an archaeologist at the University of Sheffield.
        More recently, Dr. Sherratt embarked on a Web project, known as ArchAtlas, which was intended to be a comprehensive vehicle for applying maps, graphics and remote-sensing technologies to questions in archaeology.
        Andrew George Sherratt was born in Lancashire. He earned his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from Cambridge. He joined the Ashmolean in 1973 and was named a senior assistant keeper of antiquities in 1988. He was a reader in archaeology at Oxford from 1997 to 2002, before becoming a professor, a position he held until last year.
        Dr. Sherratt is survived by his wife and their three children.
      