
        Dr. Robin Coombs, a British immunologist who in the 1940's invented a blood test that bears his name and a version of which is still widely used to diagnose some kinds of anemia and to prevent negative reactions to transfusions, died on Jan. 25, said the British Society for Immunology, a professional group he helped found. He was 85.
        His death was not widely reported in the British press until this month.
        Even before Dr. Coombs received his doctorate in 1947, he had established his reputation with research that he and a co-author had published in The Lancet, a London-based medical journal.
        At the time, researchers had only recently identified the Rh, or Rhesus, factor, a protein, or antigen, found on the red blood cells of most people.
        The factor is important because when a pregnant woman lacks it but her fetus has it, the results can be devastating: the mother's immune system may regard the Rh factor as an invader and make antibodies against it, attacking the fetus's blood cells and causing disease or even death. With each succeeding pregnancy, the problem can worsen.
        But the usual techniques for finding antibodies in the blood did not work when researchers tried to use them to test women at risk for Rh trouble. Dr. Coombs solved the problem by discovering that another protein could be added to the blood test.
        In a paper published in 1998 in the journal Vox Sanguinis, Dr. Coombs described his eureka moment. ''It was on a late-night ill-lit train from London to Cambridge that I was pondering how to measure these antibodies on red cells with pictures in my head,'' he wrote. Suddenly, in his mind's eye, he saw the answer.
        Versions of the test based on Dr. Coombs's insight are still widely used to screen Rh-negative women for potential problems in pregnancy and to determine whether other patients have autoantibodies that will attack their own red blood cells and to guard against mismatches when administering blood transfusions.
        Robert Royston Amos Coombs was born in London and grew up in South Africa. He returned to Britain and received a veterinary degree in Scotland and a doctorate in pathology at Cambridge University.
        Dr. Coombs spent the rest of his academic career at Cambridge, retiring in the late 1980's.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne; a son, Robert; a daughter, Rosalind; and four grandchildren.
      