
        William V. Musto, a former Union City mayor who was a charismatic and visionary force in New Jersey politics for decades, until he was convicted of racketeering and sent to federal prison, died on Monday at home in Union City. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Whether Mr. Musto was devouring enormous Italian sandwiches from La Bella restaurant in Union City, taking packs of friends to the racetrack or speaking out as an early champion of the state lottery, he lived with unchecked gusto. He was so popular in his hometown that the day after he was sentenced to prison in 1982 for helping mobsters and contractors pocket public money designated for schools, voters re-elected him anyway. His supporters insisted he was framed.
        Mr. Musto, a Democrat, was a pioneer in affirmative action, flinging open the doors to City Hall to his growing Cuban-American constituency. He was mayor from 1962 to 1970 and 1974 to 1982, an era when the city, perched on the sandstone palisades across the Hudson from New York City, dramatically changed, from an old-line Italian enclave to a little Little Havana.
        He was one of the first mayors in New Jersey to push for bilingual education, and whether out of decency or political expediency, he was also one of the first to hire and promote Hispanic residents.
        ''He was way ahead of his time,'' said Rudy Garcia, mayor of Union City from 1998 to 2000.
        One of Mr. Musto's protégés was Robert Menendez, who started out as a mayor's aide and rose to become a powerful Democratic congressman in New Jersey, recently appointed to the United States Senate.
        The two were very close, like father and son, many said, until Mr. Musto was investigated for corruption and Mr. Menendez became a government witness and testified against him. That testimony helped convict Mr. Musto, along with six other men, of racketeering. His conviction withstood appeals, and Mr. Musto eventually had to leave office. He spent three years in federal prison.
        Mr. Musto was also a lawyer and an influential state lawmaker, serving in New Jersey's Assembly from 1947 to 1966 and in the State Senate from 1966 to 1982.
        William Vincent Musto was born March 27, 1917, at a hospital in neighboring Jersey City. He spent his entire life in what is now Union City, except during World War II, when he served as an artillery officer under Gen. George S. Patton. Mr. Musto won a Bronze Star.
        He and his wife, Rhyta, met in 1941, at Fort Dix, shortly before he shipped off to war, and corresponded, usually in batches of 10 to 12 letters at a time, until their marriage in 1946.
        She survives him, along with a son, Patrick E. Musto; a daughter, Patricia Griffin; a brother, Patrick Roy Musto; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      