
        Dr. Francis M. Forster, a neurologist and university leader who helped treat President Dwight D. Eisenhower for his 1957 stroke, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Cincinnati. He was 94.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Forster, a dean of Georgetown's medical school, was summoned to the White House after Eisenhower returned from an outdoor reception for King Mohammed V of Morocco and reported feeling cold. The president had difficulty speaking shortly afterward.
        Specialists from Columbia University and a military surgeon joined Dr. Forster in diagnosing a blockage of a branch of a cerebral vessel, leading to a mild stroke. Eisenhower, then 67, was not hospitalized, and he recovered in time to attend a NATO conference in Paris two weeks later.
        But the incident contributed to wider concerns about the president's health. In 1955, he was treated for a heart attack, and in 1956, he had surgery for ileitis, an intestinal disorder now known as Crohn's disease.
        Dr. Forster again appeared in the national eye in 1964, when he was called as an expert witness at Jack Ruby's trial in the slaying of Lee Harvey Oswald.
        Melvin Belli, the San Francisco lawyer representing Ruby, had prepared an insanity defense, claiming that a rare form of epilepsy had prompted Ruby to shoot Oswald.
        Dr. Forster, a specialist in epilepsy and related neurological conditions who was then at the University of Wisconsin, examined charts of Ruby's brain activity and said he saw little evidence to support the defense's theory.
        A leading brain researcher, Dr. Frederic A. Gibbs, disagreed and diagnosed what he called psychomotor epilepsy. But medical experts from Harvard and Northwestern supported Dr. Forster's findings. Ruby was convicted, but he was later granted a new trial; he died in prison before the case could be retried.
        In 1948, Dr. Forster was one of four neurologists who founded the American Academy of Neurology, a professional organization with about 19,000 members today. From 1957 to 1959, Dr. Forster served as the academy's president.
        Dr. Forster participated in an early scientific exchange with the Soviets, when he joined five other American neurologists on a medical tour to the Soviet Union in 1958 and 1959. He concluded that the West was more advanced in brain research but that the Russians were not far behind.
        Francis Michael Forster was born in Cincinnati. He received his medical degree from the University of Cincinnati in 1937.
        Dr. Forster taught briefly at Boston University and Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia before moving to Georgetown in 1950. He became chairman of Georgetown's neurology department and, in 1953, was named dean of its medical school.
        In 1958, he joined the University of Wisconsin, Madison, as a professor of neurology, and he remained there for the rest of his teaching career. After retiring from the university in 1978, he was director of the Francis M. Forster Epilepsy Center at the Veterans Affairs hospital in Madison until 1982.
        He was a former president of the American Epilepsy Society and the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology.
        Dr. Forster's wife of 67 years, the former Helen Kiley, died in 2004. The couple resided in Blue Ash, Ohio.
        He is survived by two sons, Denis, of Wilton, Conn., and Kittery Point, Me., and Mark, of Madison; three daughters, Susan Cole of Sun Prairie, Wis., Marianne Kopp of Beloit, Wis., and Kathleen Marot of Cincinnati; six grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      