
        Dr. Robert W. Miller, an epidemiologist who led an American team that determined that even fetuses had suffered damage from the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84.
        The cause was colon cancer, said the National Cancer Institute, where Dr. Miller worked for more than four decades. The institute announced his death last week.
        A pediatrician by training, Dr. Miller went to Japan in 1954 as chief of pediatrics for the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission, an agency established by President Harry S. Truman after World War II to study the effects of radiation in survivors.
        Among other findings, Dr. Miller established that ''exposure to radiation before birth increased the incidence of mental retardation in children and small head circumference,'' said Dr. Joseph F. Fraumeni Jr., director of the division of cancer epidemiology and genetics at the National Cancer Institute.
        Moreover, Dr. Fraumeni said, ''for the exposed unborn child, the closer you were to the bomb's epicenter, the greater the risk'' for health issues.
        Beyond his service to the casualty commission, Dr. Miller made a wide study of childhood cancer causes, often specializing in the connections between congenital deformities and the development of certain cancers.
        With Dr. Fraumeni, he studied a tie between aniridia, the congenital absence of an iris within the eye, and a kidney cancer known as Wilms's tumor. Other researchers later used the observation to make successful genetic studies of how cancers form, in children and adults alike.
        Dr. Miller also looked at a tumor of the eye, retinoblastoma, and its connection to a bone cancer of the knee sometimes found in retinoblastoma patients.
        He described his larger interest as an ''instinctive search for patterns in designs, disease occurrence or clustering of any sort.'' As an epidemiologist, he studied seeming clusters of cancer cases, particularly of childhood leukemia, many of which remain unexplained.
        But not all his findings were bleak. In 1984, he reported in The Journal of the American Medical Association that survival rates for children with cancer had improved markedly since 1950. He credited the development of chemotherapy and improvements in surgery and radiation therapy.
        Dr. Miller also helped investigate environmental sources of cancer internationally. As a member of medical advisory committees, he studied the health effects of Agent Orange on Vietnam veterans and of dioxin on the local population from a major spill in Seveso, Italy. In 1957 and again in 1989, he recorded the health effects from nuclear weapons tests in the Marshall Islands. In the 80's, he reviewed Russian studies of children exposed to radiation released in the Chernobyl disaster.
        Robert Warwick Miller was born in Brooklyn and received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. He later earned a master's degree and a doctorate in epidemiology at the University of Michigan.
        He joined the National Cancer Institute, as chief of its epidemiology branch, in 1961. In 1976, he became chief of the institute's clinical epidemiology branch, a position he held until 1994. He also served as director of the institute's office of international affairs. He was named a scientist emeritus in 1994 but continued his research until last year.
        Dr. Miller is survived by his wife of 51 years, Haruko, a former research technician in the institute's laboratory of chemical carcinogenesis.
      