
        Frank Little, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for five seasons but ultimately left the stage for a career as an arts administrator and educator, died on Feb. 22 at a palliative care center in Skokie, Ill. He was 69.
        He died of complications of cardiac arrest, said his son Courtney Little.
        Mr. Little began singing at Chicago Lyric Opera in 1968, and made his debut at the Met as Narraboth in ''Salome'' in 1977. Other roles at the Met included parts in the world premiere of the three-act version of Berg's ''Lulu'' in 1977 and several turns as Cassio in Verdi's ''Otello,'' which he also sang on the RCA recording with Plácido Domingo and Renata Scotto. At Chicago Lyric, he sang in the world premiere of Krystof Penderecki's ''Paradise Lost.'' His appearances in Italy ranged from La Scala to a private performance for Pope John Paul II.
        Mr. Little returned to teaching as early as 1970, and in 1981 decided to leave performing altogether. His performing schedule kept him on the road for as much as nine months a year, and he wanted to spend more time with his family.
        After working as chairman of performance studies at DePaul University in Chicago and chairman of the music department at Furman University in Greenville, S.C., he became president of the Music Center of the North Shore in Chicago, later renamed the Music Institute of Chicago, a school for young, gifted musicians. He remained there for 17 years, until retiring in 2003.
        Francis Easterly Little was born on March 22, 1936, in Greeneville, Tenn., in the Smoky Mountains, and began studying voice in high school. He worked his way through East Tennessee State University (with, among other things, stints in a vaudeville show), joined the Army and subsequently received a master's degree from the Cincinnati College Conservatory of Music (in 1960) and a doctorate in vocal performance from Northwestern (in 1971). Described by friends as a Southern gentleman, he remained true to his roots, with a passion for Civil War history and bluegrass music. Two of his sons, Courtney and Carter Little, are musicians in Nashville.
        He met his wife, Carolyn, on a blind date in 1962; they were married the next year.
        At the Music Institute of Chicago, Mr. Little tripled the enrollment, expanded the facilities and helped lead a number of students toward international success.
        ''I think he felt children's education in music was as, or more, important as education at the collegiate level,'' said his son Courtney.
        Mr. Little also helped develop the school's Institute for Therapy Through the Arts, one of only a few such programs in the country.
        In addition to his wife, of Winnetka, Ill., and his sons Courtney and Carter, he is survived by a daughter, Caroline Degenaars of Kenilworth, Ill.; another son, Kent Little of Santa Fe, N.M.; five grandchildren; and a sister, Winnie Pruett of Picayune, Miss.
      