
        Walerian Borowczyk, an internationally known Surrealist filmmaker described variously by critics as a genius, a pornographer and a genius who also happened to be a pornographer, died on Feb. 3 in Paris, where he had resided since the late 1950's. He was 82.
        The cause was heart trouble, friends of Mr. Borowczyk told Agence France-Presse. His wife, Ligia Branice, who starred in several of his films, is his only known survivor.
        If Franz Kafka and the filmmaker Luis Buñuel were cross-pollinated, the result would be Mr. Borowczyk. Originally trained as a painter and graphic artist, he made several dozen films, both animated and live-action, in the decades after World War II. His work attracted a cult following over the years and has been cited as an influence on contemporary filmmakers like Terry Gilliam, Jan Svankmajer and the Brothers Quay.
        Working first in his native Poland and later in France, Mr. Borowczyk (pronounced bo-ROV-chick) was drawn incessantly to the competing lures of sex and death. His live-action films were known for their candid, often explicit, depictions of sexual congress, mostly, but by no means exclusively, between one human being and another.
        His best-known live-action work includes ''Goto, l'Île d'Amour'' (''Goto, Island of Love,'' 1968); ''Blanche'' (1971); ''Contes Immoraux'' (''Immoral Tales,'' 1974); and, most notoriously, ''La Bête'' (''The Beast,'' 1975).
        Among his animated films are ''Dom'' (''House,'' 1958), made with Jan Lenica; ''Les Astronautes'' (1959), with Chris Marker; ''Renaissance'' (1963); and the full-length feature ''Théâtre de M. et Mme. Kabal'' (''Mr. and Mrs. Kabal's Theater,'' 1967).
        In the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Borowczyk was widely considered one of the most eminent animators in the world. His techniques, bold at the time, included manipulating cutout geometric shapes and painting directly onto lengths of film.
        ''Renaissance,'' one of his most famous animated movies, opens on a roomful of devastated objects, which lie in ruins after some unseen cataclysm. As the action unspools in reverse, a pile of feathers reconstitutes itself as a stuffed owl; a tangle of metal becomes a trumpet. The last object to reassemble itself is a grenade, which promptly pulls its own pin.
        In his live-action work, Mr. Borowczyk homed in on the sexual tensions smoldering beneath claustrophobic social propriety. Many of these films are period pieces set among decadent European aristocracy. Though nihilistic, they are also visually exquisite, often described as medieval frescoes or tapestries come to life.
        ''Contes Immoraux,'' for instance, comprises four tales, each exploring a different sexual taboo. (Incest is merely one of them.) The film is also noteworthy for starring Paloma Picasso as the murderous 16th-century noblewoman Erzsebet Bathory.
        To many critics, ''Contes Immoraux'' marked the start of Mr. Borowczyk's slide into complete depravity. It did not help his case that he went on to be a co-director of ''Emmanuelle V,'' a later entry in a well-publicized soft-core-pornography series, released in 1987.
        Walerian Borowczyk, known as Boro, was born in Kwilcz, near Poznan, in 1923. After graduating from the Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow, he worked as an illustrator of film posters. In the years before his death, Mr. Borowczyk, who had not made a movie in more than a decade, devoted himself to painting, sculpture and writing.
        The reaction to Mr. Borowczyk's films reached its hysterical zenith in the mid-1970's with ''La Bête.'' A licentious reworking of ''Beauty and the Beast,'' it features an act of passionate coupling between a young maiden (Lisbeth Hummel) and an extremely hairy creature that looks something like a bear. ''La Bête'' was initially banned in Britain.
        But some critics saw even this film as elegant dark farce. They praised Mr. Borowczyk as an innovator who deliberately erased the line between art house and eros, labeling him one of the great visionaries of modern cinema. Mr. Borowczyk concurred.
        ''I look through the camera's viewfinder and I eliminate: that's the secret,'' he said in an interview quoted in the reference book World Film Directors (H. W. Wilson, 1988). ''I also eliminate collaborators who dare to haggle over my ideas with me. I know it all. And that's often had members of my team in tears.''
      