
        Barbara Guest, a prominent modernist poet who was the only woman to be a member of the famed New York School of poets of the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Feb. 15 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 85. Ms. Guest, who had lived in Berkeley for the last decade, formerly resided in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y.
        The cause was complications of a recent series of strokes, her daughter, Hadley Guest, said.
        The author of more than 20 volumes of poetry, Ms. Guest was part of the first generation of the New York School, together with John Ashbery, Kenneth Koch, Frank O'Hara and James Schuyler. Long considered a ''poet's poet,'' she was widely admired by colleagues but less well known to the general public.
        In recent years, Ms. Guest attracted a new following, especially with the publication in 1995 of her ''Selected Poems'' (Sun & Moon Press). In 1999, she was awarded the Robert Frost Medal of the Poetry Society of America.
        Her best-known poetry collections include ''The Blue Stairs'' (Corinth Books, 1968); ''The Countess From Minneapolis'' (Burning Deck Poetry Series, 1976); ''Fair Realism'' (Sun & Moon, 1989); and, most recently, ''The Red Gaze'' (Wesleyan University Press, 2005).
        Ms. Guest was also known as the author of ''Herself Defined'' (Doubleday, 1984), a biography of Hilda Doolittle, better known as the poet H. D. Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani called it ''a shimmering, delicately patterned narrative that is never less than absorbing,'' though she expressed reservations over its relative lack of critical analysis.
        The New York School emerged partly as a reaction against the angst-ridden work of the confessional poets of the late 1950's, among them John Berryman and Robert Lowell and, somewhat later, Anne Sexton and Sylvia Plath. In contrast, the New York poets shared a concern with language as pure form, using words much as a painter uses paint.
        Not surprisingly, these poets, Ms. Guest among them, were deeply influenced by the visual art of the period. They saw a particular affinity between their work and that of action painters like Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and Larry Rivers.
        In 1960, Ms. Guest attracted favorable notice with her first collection of poems, ''The Location of Things'' (Tibor de Nagy Editions). But by the end of the decade, the spotlight had shifted to poets like Denise Levertov and Adrienne Rich, whose work was overtly political.
        Ms. Guest's poetry is intended for both the eye and the ear, straddling the border between the painterly and the musical. Her work defies easy interpretation or, in some cases, any interpretation. It is meant to.
        Like Gertrude Stein, Ms. Guest wielded English as Picasso wielded a brush, and the result can be hard-edged and fractured, almost Cubist, as in the opening stanza of ''Heavy Violets,'' from ''Fair Realism'':
        Heavy violets there is no way
        if the door clicks the cushion
        makes murmur noise and the woman
        on the sofa turns half in half out
        a tooth slipping from velvet.
        Barbara Ann Pinson was born on Sept. 6, 1920, in Wilmington, N.C. Her girlhood was rootless: her father was a probation officer, and the family moved wherever his job took him. After spending her early childhood in various Florida towns, Barbara was sent at 11 to live with relatives in Los Angeles, so that she could be educated there.
        After attending the University of California, Los Angeles, she earned a bachelor's degree in English from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1943. She later moved to New York and for several years in the early 1950's was a reviewer for the journal Art News.
        Ms. Guest's first marriage, to John Dudley, a painter and writer who was a close friend of Henry Miller's, ended in divorce. In 1948, she married Stephen Guest, an Englishman who later became Stephen Lord Haden-Guest. They were divorced in 1954. That year, Ms. Guest married Trumbull Higgins, a military historian; their marriage ended with his death in 1990.
        Besides her daughter, of Berkeley, Ms. Guest is survived by a son, Jonathan Higgins of Eugene, Ore.
        Her other work includes an experimental novel, ''Seeking Air'' (Black Sparrow Press, 1978); ''Dürer in the Window'' (Roof Books, 2003), a collection of poetry, essays and art criticism; and several books done in collaboration with visual artists.
      