
        John M. Falotico, the detective who arrested David R. Berkowitz, the notorious ''Son of Sam'' killer, died on Saturday at his home in North Brunswick, N.J. He was 82.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his niece, Jennifer Falotico Taylor.
        Mr. Falotico's date with destiny came around 10 p.m. on Aug. 10, 1977. It had been almost a year since the beginning of a series of mysterious attacks around New York City, resulting in the death of six people and the wounding of seven others. Menacing letters mentioning ''Son of Sam,'' sent to the newspaper columnist Jimmy Breslin and others, pushed anxiety to fever levels.
        With summer heat still hanging in the evening air, Detective Falotico approached the driver's side of a car parked in front of 35 Pine Street in Yonkers.
        He thrust his pistol inches from the temple of a young man who had just gotten into the car, a cream-colored Ford Galaxie, while Detective Sgt. William Gardella pointed his gun from the passenger's side.
        Next to the man in the car was a paper bag later found to contain a .44-caliber revolver of the type used in the shootings. As described in ''Son of Sam'' (1981), by Lawrence D. Klausner, what Detective Falotico (pronounced fa-LAH-tik-o) could never forget was the big, inexplicable smile on the man's face.
        ''Now that I've got you,'' Detective Falotico said to the suspect, ''who have I got?''
        ''You know,'' the man said in what the detective remembered was a soft, almost sweet voice.
        ''No I don't. You tell me.''
        The man turned his head and said, ''I'm Sam.''
        ''You're Sam? Sam who?''
        ''Sam. David Berkowitz.''
        The next afternoon, while Mayor Abraham D. Beame and the police commissioner, Michael J. Codd, held a news conference at police headquarters, Detective Falotico was at the 84th Precinct station house booking Mr. Berkowitz, 25. He was already one of the most notorious criminals in the city's history, but according to investigators, he had been planning to drive out to Long Island and open fire on a crowd at a nightclub. A machine gun was found in the trunk of his car.
        Detective Falotico's involvement in the case began on July 31, 1977, when he was awakened at home and told to report to the 10th Homicide Division at the 60th Precinct station house in Coney Island. A few hours earlier, Stacy Moskowitz and Robert Violante, both 20, had been shot while sitting in a car in Bath Beach, Brooklyn. Mr. Violante lost an eye and Ms. Moskowitz was fatally wounded. They were the last of Mr. Berkowitz's victims. .
        Detective Falotico was given two weeks to work on the case as a normal murder investigation. Then it was to be handed over to a special Son of Sam task force.
        Detective Falotico and his colleagues, most from the task force, benefited from the lucky combination of a parking ticket and a telephone call from a witness on a Brooklyn street. Those breaks led to the apprehension of Mr. Berkowitz, who confessed to all the attacks and was sentenced to 364 years in prison.
        Detective Falotico was promoted from second- to first-grade detective and given a $2,500 raise.
        John Michael Falotico, one of 12 children, was born on Dec. 18, 1923, in Manhattan. In World War II, he served in the Army as a welder, then graduated from the Police Academy with the huge postwar class of 1946.
        In his 36-year career with the Police Department, Officer Falotico worked for the mounted unit, the narcotics unit and emergency services. His also spent 18 years with the investigative squad of Frank S. Hogan, the Manhattan district attorney.
        His niece said he worked on many Mafia cases, using his fluent Italian. His marriage to the former Loretta Barfitt ended in divorce. Mr. Falotico is survived by three daughters, Linda Rose of New Brunswick, N.J.; Jean Falotico of North Brunswick, N.J.; and Jacinda Perry of Lawrenceville, N.J.; his brothers, Tony, of Tifton, Ga., and Joe, of San Jacinto, Calif.; and his sister, Millie Micera, of Gillette, N.J.
      