
        Philip H. Coombs, who championed promoting education and American culture as tools of diplomacy during the Kennedy administration and organized the first State Department bureau to lead the effort, died on Feb. 15 in Chester, Conn. He was 90.
        The death was announced by his family.
        In February 1961, shortly after taking office, President John F. Kennedy named Mr. Coombs to the new post of assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs. At the time he was program director for education in the Ford Foundation and had been an educational adviser to the governments of India and Turkey.
        With his White House appointment, to run the newly created Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, he sought to bring a new dimension to foreign policy by putting the State Department and its embassies in closer touch with leading cultural and educational figures and organizations overseas.
        While holding that post he moved to Paris to organize the International Institute for Educational Planning and, as its first director, advised member states of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on steps to improve their educational systems.
        Mr. Coombs resigned from the State Department in mid-1962 with a letter to the secretary of state, Dean Rusk, saying that bureaucratic obstacles and a dearth of funds had hampered the department's educational mission. Still, he said, he had succeeded in making ''initial progress.'' The bureau he organized survives.
        Mr. Coombs stayed on as director of the international institute in Paris through 1968. From 1970 until his retirement in 1992 he was vice chairman, and later chairman, of the International Council of Economic Development, where he focused on improving education in rural regions and developing countries.
        Philip Hall Coombs was born in Holyoke, Mass. With scholarships and part-time work he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Amherst College in 1937. He did graduate work in economics at the University of Chicago and became an instructor in economics at Williams College.
        He was the author of a number of books, notably ''The Fourth Dimension of Foreign Policy'' (1964); ''Education and Foreign Aid'' (1965); ''Attacking Rural Poverty: How Nonformal Education Can Help'' (1974); and ''The World Crisis in Education: The View From the Eighties'' (1985).
        Mr. Coombs is survived by his wife of 65 years, Helena Brooks Coombs; a son, Peter B., of Essex, Conn.; a daughter, Helena H. Weeks of Salem, Conn.; three grandchildren; and two great-granddaughters.
        ''We praise education's virtues and count on it to help the new generation solve great problems which the older generation has failed to solve,'' Secretary Coombs told an international meeting in Washington in 1961. ''But when it comes to spending more money for education, our deeds often fail to match our words.''
      