
        Barry Bingham Jr., former editor and publisher of The Louisville Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times, whose corrosive feud with two sisters led to the 1986 sale of the newspapers in a high drama that ended the family stewardship of an acclaimed journalistic enterprise, died yesterday in Louisville, Ky. He was 72. His daughter, Mary C. Bingham, said he died of respiratory failure after a long bout with Hodgkin's disease.
        The sale of the two newspapers to the Gannett chain was reluctantly ordered by Barry Bingham Sr., the 80-year-old patriarch of the family, as a last resort to end a bitter struggle between Barry Jr. and his sisters, Sallie Bingham and Eleanor Bingham Miller, over control of the family properties. A television station as well as AM and FM radio stations in Louisville and a printing company were also sold, to other buyers.
        The sales brought $432 million but closed out three generations of Bingham family pilotage and an era of liberal journalism in Louisville.
        In national news coverage and in a chorus of investigative books, the divestiture was portrayed as a tragedy mirroring the tortured Mississippi Delta families of William Faulkner's novels: a story of poor strivers rising to great wealth but tormented by pride, distrust, sibling intrigue and implacable disagreements -- a family devoted to the arts, the theater, education and social progress torn apart by fights over money and control that ultimately lay waste to the enterprise that had made it all possible.
        The Binghams, a proud clan of Southern patricians often compared with the Kennedys for their wealth and history of tragic deaths, had built their Kentucky media empire over nearly 70 years. The cornerstone was The Courier-Journal, a recipient of eight Pulitzer Prizes and a champion of civil rights and other liberal causes. The newspapers were the first to install an independent ombudsman to hear complaints by the public, and they offered employee benefits unheard-of elsewhere in the industry, including subsidized day care, paternity leave and flexible worktime options.
        In 1971, Barry Bingham Jr., a 38-year-old Harvard-educated former marine, succeeded his father, Barry Sr., as editor and publisher of both the morning Courier-Journal and the afternoon Times and as the operating head of WHAS-TV, a CBS affiliate; the radio outlets; and Standard Gravure, the printing company. He and his sisters and parents were the principal stockholders of the companies, although Barry Sr. remained as chairman of them and, along with his wife, Mary, controlled 95 percent of the voting stock.
        Over the next 15 years, despite circulation losses and rising costs in a stagnant economy, Barry Jr. presided over essentially healthy companies and burnished The Courier-Journal's reputation for high journalistic and ethical standards.
        But years of family tensions surfaced in 1984 after Barry Jr. insisted that his mother, his wife and two sisters leave the boards of the companies. He said he wanted more professional boards. His parents said he wanted mainly to remove the outspoken Sallie, a feminist who had become critical of his management. Sallie refused to resign and, in what she saw as a humiliation, was voted out.
        She responded by demanding a buyout for her stock. Barry Jr. made an offer of $26.3 million, but she rejected it as laughably low and threatened to sell to outsiders, the ultimate slap at a family that prided itself on solidarity. She said her holdings were worth $80 million. Her brother said the company could not afford that. Negotiations went nowhere.
        The relationship between Barry Jr. and Eleanor also deteriorated. She told him that she wanted to own and operate the broadcast enterprises or that she, too, might sell out. A plan to swap his stock in WHAS for her stock in the newspapers was floated. But Eleanor insisted that Sallie and Barry Jr. agree to a stock price before the swap could proceed. Gridlock set in.
        After a failed attempt at compromise, Barry Sr. announced that all the companies would be sold. Barry Jr. accused his father of betrayal. Sallie called it a positive step, and Eleanor said it was a relief. A few months later, the newspapers were sold to Gannett for $306.9 million. WHAS went to the Providence Journal Company for $85.7 million; the radio stations went to Clear Channel Communications for $20.1 million, and an Atlanta businessman picked up Standard Gravure for $20 million.
        The story of the Binghams gave rise to several books, including ''The Patriarch: The Rise and Fall of the Bingham Dynasty,'' by Susan E. Tifft and Alex S. Jones, and ''House of Dreams,'' by Marie Brenner. ''Passion and Prejudice: A Family Memoir,'' by Sallie Bingham, said that the family reputation for public service and liberality was a myth, and that its history was actually a lurid tale of incest, suicide, fortune-hunting men, cheated women, even a murder. The family denounced it as ''maliciously skewed.''
        George Barry Bingham Jr., who, like his father, never used his first name, was born into a fortune in Louisville on Sept. 23, 1933. The family empire was founded in 1916 when his grandfather, Robert Worth Bingham, a teacher's son, married Mary Lily Kenan Flagler, the daughter of Henry Flagler, who invented south Florida as a world-class resort. Eight months after the marriage, she died and left $5 million to her spouse.
        With his legacy, Robert bought the two Louisville newspapers and Melcombe, a 40-acre estate with a Georgian mansion overlooking the Ohio River in Glenview, Ky. It remains the family home. His Courier-Journal championed women's suffrage, the League of Nations, labor unions and Franklin D. Roosevelt; his reward was appointment as ambassador to Britain. He died in 1937, and the newspapers passed to his son, Barry Sr.
        Barry Jr., one of five children of George Barry Bingham Sr. and the former Mary Clifford Caperton, grew up shy, chubby and with a reading disability that he worked hard to overcome. He attended the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass., and graduated from Harvard in 1956 with a bachelor's degree in history. After two years as an officer in the Marines, he worked as a broadcast researcher in the news divisions of CBS in New York and NBC in Washington.
        He returned to Louisville in 1963 and went to work for WHAS. A year later his younger brother, Jonathan, 22, was electrocuted in a freakish accident. In 1966, his older brother Worth, 34, who had been groomed to succeed their father at the newspapers, was killed in another freakish accident: a surfboard protruding from his car hit a parked vehicle, pivoted abruptly and snapped his neck.
        Barry Jr. moved into the executive suite. When his father retired in 1971, he took over as editor and publisher. Later that year, he learned he had Hodgkin's disease, a form of lymph cancer that had killed his grandfather. After months of chemotherapy, the cancer went into remission.
        Mr. Jones, director of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, described Mr. Bingham yesterday as ''a serious man'' and ''more passionate about media than anyone I've ever known.'' Had he continued as publisher, Mr. Jones said, ''he would have operated The Courier-Journal as a moral as well as a journalistic and economic institution.''
        His tenure at the newspapers was marked by declining circulation but aggressive news coverage that won three Pulitzer Prizes. The Courier-Journal's reputation for placing principle before profit was preserved, though critics called the newspaper arrogant, patronizing, even communistic. In 1975, a mob smashed its windows to protest its support for court-ordered busing to integrate the public schools.
        Barry Jr. imposed rigid conflict-of-interest standards on employees and adhered to them himself, refusing to socialize with politicians and remaining aloof from Louisville's society. That contrasted with his forebears' tradition of elegant parties, Kentucky Derby breakfasts and a social circle of celebrities and national leaders in politics and the arts. Barry Jr. was active in some civic affairs, but his pleasures were solitary: hunting and woodcutting on the family estate.
        After the sale of the newspapers, Barry Jr. received $45.6 million, while Sallie and Eleanor got $55 million each. The largest share, $106 million, went to their parents, while $85 million went to a family trust. Barry Sr. died in 1988, and his wife died in 1995 at the age of 90.
        In the late 1980's, Barry Jr. published a monthly newsletter on journalistic ethics called Fineline, and he continued for many years to serve on the boards of Louisville arts and cultural institutions, but he was never again on the national stage.
        Besides his daughter Mary, of Washington, he is survived by his wife, the former Edith Stenhouse, whom he married in 1963; another daughter, Emily S. Bingham, of Louisville; two sons from his wife's first marriage, Philip John Franchini, of Topanga Canyon, Calif., and Charles Wharton Bingham, of Louisville; four grandchildren; and his sisters, Sallie, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Eleanor, of Louisville.
        Correction:  April 5, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Barry Bingham Jr., former editor and publisher of The Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times, referred incorrectly to his battle with Hodgkin's disease. It had been in remission since the early 1970's, the family said; he had not been suffering from it in recent years. The obituary also misstated the background of Mary Lily Kenan Flagler, who married Robert Worth Bingham, founder of the family businesses. She was the widow of Henry Flagler, the early developer of South Florida, not his daughter.
      