
        Dr. William A. Barnes, a New York surgeon and stomach specialist who developed an early device that improved the catheterized feeding of patients with a blockage of the esophagus, died on March 26 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 94.
        His family confirmed his death.
        The device, called the Barnes-Redo button, was developed in the late 1950's with Dr. S. Frank Redo, a surgeon at what was then New York Hospital, where Dr. Barnes also practiced. Both men were professors of surgery at Cornell University.
        The button, shaped like a spool of thread with flanges at each end, served as a conduit for a catheter that was passed directly into the stomach. It was implanted in a patient's skin and then covered by a cap to stay in place indefinitely.
        The rigid nylon device allowed ''hospital patients to go home and even feed themselves, with less risk of infection'' from the procedure, called a gastrostomy, said Dr. Redo, who was chief of pediatric surgery at New York Hospital from 1960 to 1995.
        Before the button, catheters were liable to slip out of a patient, with greater risk of an abdominal incision closing prematurely. Dr. Barnes and Dr. Redo published their findings but did not seek a patent for the device.
        The two later collaborated on a surgical procedure to control reflux, the eruption of caustic gastric juices from the stomach into the esophagus. Beginning in the 1960's, they used a patient's own tissue to create a valve, or flap, at the junction of the esophagus and stomach. The valve allowed food and liquids to enter the stomach, but worked to shield the esophagus from a corrosive return.
        The work spurred efforts to make an artificial esophagus, intended to replace tissue severely damaged by stomach acid. The research was conducted with animal tissue and was never clinically applied, Dr. Redo said.
        William Alexander Barnes was born in Manhattan. He attended the College of the City of New York and earned his medical degree from Cornell in 1937.
        Dr. Barnes is survived by his wife of 61 years, Dr. Shirley A. Mayer, a pediatrician, who was the state health commissioner in New Jersey in the early 1980's. The couple lived in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.
        He is also survived by three sons, William C., of Midland Park, N.J.; George, of Charlottesville, Va.; and Robin, of Davidson, N.C.; a daughter, Esme Root of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and by seven grandchildren.
      