
        Henry Farrell, whose gift for writing pulpy melodrama was most famously realized in the 1962 movie ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?,'' died on March 29 at his home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 85.
        Mary Bishop, his executor, confirmed his death.
        The ''Baby Jane'' movie was based on a novel Mr. Farrell wrote in 1960. He was also a co-writer of the screenplay for the 1964 campy cult classic ''Hush  Hush, Sweet Charlotte,'' which was based on one of his short stories.
        In both movies, Mr. Farrell made a bad joke of the command to grow old gracefully by creating once-glamorous female characters and turning them into crazy hags acting out evil fantasies.
        In ''Baby Jane,'' the stars were Bette Davis and Joan Crawford, who had never appeared together and who were both trying to revive flagging careers. Davis played a woman who had been a world-famous child actress but who had lost her popularity as she grew up, until all she had left were photographs and glorious memories. Crawford played her sister, a former movie star who had suffered an accident that put her in a wheelchair at the peak of her career.
        Miss Davis's character becomes her sister's vengeance-seeking custodian. She feeds her sister a dead pet canary and a scalded rat for ''din-din.''
        Mr. Farrell's press agent, Mitch Douglas, said Davis and Crawford had been enticed into the movie by the book and the chance to co-star. He said each actress used exactly the same words about the other: ''I'll wipe the floor with her.''
        The film received five Academy Award nominations, including best actress for Davis.
        Mr. Farrell and the director Robert Aldrich hoped to reunite the two stars for ''Sweet Charlotte,'' but Crawford ultimately declined.
        In this second film, Davis plays Charlotte, a haunted, desperate and demented recluse. Olivia de Havilland is Miriam, her cousin who comes from Europe to help her but who really wants her to pack up and vacate so she can sell the house. Mad and murderous things ensue.
        The second movie received seven Academy Award nominations, and helped establish a new genre of psychological horror films revolving around murder, guilt, family and the apparent ghosts of the dead. It and its predecessor also set the standard for what became known as the Grand Guignol style of horror movies starring legendary female film stars.
        Charles Henry Myers was born on Sept. 27, 1920, somewhere in California. Ms. Bishop did not know where, or when or why he began using a pseudonym. Mr. Farrell's other novels included ''The Hostage'' (1959), ''Death on the Sixth Day: A Novel'' (1961), ''How Awful About Allan'' (1963) and ''Such a Gorgeous Kid Like Me'' (1967), which François Truffaut's used as the basis of his 1972 film ''Une Belle Fille Comme Moi.'' Mr. Farrell also wrote screenplays for ''What's the Matter With Helen?'' (1971) and the television movie of ''How Awful About Allan'' (1970), among other films. In 2002, a musical of ''What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?,'' written by Mr. Farrell, was staged in Houston to mixed reviews.
        Mr. Farrell was married to the actress Molly Dodd, who died in 1981. He is survived by his sister, Wanda Zey Michael, of University Place, Wash.
        He recently finished a novel titled ''A Piece of Clarisse.'' It tells of a man who regularly gets pieces of a woman's body in his mailbox.
        Correction:  April 5, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Henry Farrell, the author of ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane'' and other psychological horror stories, misstated the middle name he was given at birth. He was named Charles Farrell Myers, not Charles Henry Myers.
      