
        Dennis Duggan, who chronicled life in New York City over six decades for five newspapers, started a column about the subways that inspired other papers to run features on commuting and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause is not known, but he had been ill with several ailments, said Sheila McKenna, a close friend and colleague.
        His final column -- on a retired police officer whose son was killed at the World Trade Center and who felt he had been duped into supporting the war in Iraq -- appeared at the end of February, 53 years after Mr. Duggan applied for a job as a copy boy at The New York Mirror.
        Beginning in 1967, Mr. Duggan was the voice of New York City in Newsday. In early 1986, as Newsday, the Long Island daily, was starting an edition that circulated entirely in New York City, he turned his column over to a single subject: the subways, which he wrote about three times a week with a mixture of affection and dread. Mr. Duggan was on a team of reporters awarded the Pulitzer Prize for coverage of a fatal subway derailment in 1991.
        He reported on the police corruption scandals in the 77th Precinct in the early 1980's, befriended homeless people living in Grand Central Terminal and poked fun at his own vanity when he had a face lift that he called a ''jowl-ectomy.''
        Mr. Duggan covered seven mayors. After Mayor Edward I. Koch announced that he was going to publish a book of his own letters, Mr. Duggan noted that he had been getting mail from Mr. Koch for years.
        ''Judging by just the letters Hizzoner has sent me, he will have no problem filling a volume the size of the Book of Kells,'' Mr. Duggan wrote.
        Mr. Duggan also worked for The New York Times, The Daily News and The New York Herald Tribune and was the last of the Tribune writers still writing regularly for a New York newspaper, according to Richard Wald, who was the paper's managing editor.
        Mr. Duggan, who lived in Greenwich Village, is survived by his companion, Mary Elizabeth Pendl; his daughter, Nancy Duggan, of Morristown, N.J.; and two sisters, Mary Duggan of Livonia, Mich., and Geraldine Wright, of Interlochen, Mich.
      