
        Helen Cohn, whose suspicions that life could turn peculiar after she said yes to a man named Nudie were confirmed as she helped him in his life's mission, putting lots and lots of rhinestones on country singers' suits, died on April 7 in Valencia, Calif. She was 92.
        Her granddaughter Jamie Nudie announced her death.
        Her husband, Nudie Cohn, got his name when Ellis Island officials botched his real name, Nuta Kotlyarenko. He aspired to show business, beginning his trip to fame by shining shoes in front of the Palace Theater on Broadway.
        His young wife, whom he had renamed Bobbie Nudie, possibly with her permission, was present at the creation of Nudie's Rodeo Tailors in North Hollywood, Calif., which opened in 1947. The couple soon found celebrity by selling wildly embroidered, rhinestone-studded duds to cowboy stars, country singers and, yes, Elvis Presley. (A $10,000 gold lamé number made the cover of Rolling Stone and netted a profit of $9,950.)
        The shop produced preposterously gaudy clothes, now museum pieces, for Hank Williams Sr., Buck Owens, Clint Eastwood, John Lennon, Roy Rogers, and Dale Evans, a special chum of Mrs. Cohn.
        Mrs. Cohn, who clung to her married name legally, helped her husband sew in the early years, juggled the nuts and bolts of the business for a half century, and, most important, usually managed to keep her exuberant tailoring genius pretty near the straight and narrow. The story of how she inspired the logo the company used on its labels for more than 20 years sounds too good to be true, but her granddaughter is sticking to it. One evening in the early 1940's, she emerged from the boudoir wearing nothing but a cowboy hat, boots and a holster, and coyly asked her husband, ''When are you going to make the rest of the outfit?''
        The result was what became known as the ''naked cowgirl'' label. After Mr. Cohn converted to Christianity around 1963, the cowgirl was clothed -- making the old-label garments collector's items.
        Helen Barbara Kruger was born on July 29, 1913, in Mankato, Minn. Her parents ran a boarding house, where a young traveler named Nudie showed up and fell in love with her over dinner.
        Mr. Cohn, at the time an itinerant boxer at best who had done time at Leavenworth for trafficking in drugs, somehow persuaded Miss Kruger's parents to let her go to Manhattan with him. They lived at a hotel frequented by gamblers and the gangster Pretty Boy Floyd, with whom they struck up a friendship.
        The couple returned to Mankato to get married, then opened a business called Nudie's for the Ladies in Manhattan in 1934. They sold G-strings and lingerie to showgirls and burlesque dancers.
        After tiring of the rigors of New York, they returned to Minnesota to open a dry-cleaning and tailoring shop. Then they hitchhiked West, and when a long white Cadillac zipped past, they realized the driver was Tom Mix, a huge star of cowboy movies.
        ''Someday, they are going to eat my dust,'' Mrs. Cohn is said to have exclaimed.
        They soon moved to Hollywood, where they decided that performers did not dress nearly showily enough. Tex Winter and his band bought some of the first ''Nudie suits.'' While they were being measured, a party broke out, and the first suits were a horrible fit. The Cohns sewed day and night to make what were immediately recognized as sensational costumes.
        It is unclear which one of the couple came up with the Nudie motto: ''It is better to be looked over than overlooked.''
        Mr. Cohn died in 1984. Mrs. Cohn kept the shop open for 10 more years. Jamie Nudie now keeps the legend alive on the Internet at www.nudiesrodeotailor.com.
        Mrs. Cohn is survived by two granddaughters, three great-grandchildren and a sister, Edith Macho of Long Beach, Calif.
        At Mr. Cohn's funeral, the coffin was completely open so people could see his mismatched boots, a personal trademark recalling his impoverished younger days. Mrs. Cohn's will be an open-casket funeral on Saturday, but rather than wearing rhinestones, she will be dressed in the tasteful cashmere and Ferragamo shoes she came to prefer.
        Correction:  April 13, 2006, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Helen Cohn, who used the name Bobbie Nudie as the wife and muse of Nudie Cohn, the designer of flamboyant western costumes, misstated the surname of a country music star who was one of his first clients. The star was Tex Williams, not Tex Winter.
      