
        E. S. Anderson, a British microbiologist who was one of the first to warn that giving antibiotics to livestock could backfire, with dangerous consequences for humans, died on March 14 in London. He was 94.
        Dr. Anderson's death was reported by the British Health Protection Agency.
        In the 1960's, as director of a government research unit that studied intestinal diseases, Dr. Anderson and others observed that strains of intestinal bacteria were able to survive exposure to the antibiotics intended to destroy them. He studied the phenomenon and concluded that antibiotics added to animals' feed to quicken their growth were behind the resistance.
        In effect, bacteria in the stomachs of cows and pigs were able to mutate and develop a resistance factor that later appeared in bacterial strains outside the animals, and therefore potentially in humans.
        With his colleagues, Dr. Anderson was able to identify resistance factors for tetracycline, streptomycin and other major antibiotics, which were the strongest defense against overwhelming bacterial infections. Part of this work resulted in a book, ''The World Problem of Salmonellosis'' (1964).
        In 1969, the British government formed a committee to study the problem and issued a report recommending that antibiotics be curtailed in livestock. The committee also advised that drugs intended primarily for medical applications should not be used in agriculture.
        Dr. Anderson continued his work in the 1970's, investigating the genetic pathways that transfer resistance from one bacterium to another and therefore make possible the spread of human diseases. Earlier, as a physician and epidemiologist, he studied outbreaks of typhoid among British troops in Egypt. In 1964, he helped trace a deadly outbreak of typhoid in Aberdeen, Scotland, to contaminated canned goods imported from South America.
        Ephraim Saul Anderson was born in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne. He received his medical degree from Durham University and studied bacteriology at the Royal Postgraduate Medical School in London.
        In 1947 he joined the government research unit called the Enteric Reference Laboratory, and in 1954 he became its director, a post he held until his retirement in 1978.
        In 1972, he gave a series of lectures at the Harvard School of Public Health. He was named a fellow of the Royal Society in 1968.
        Dr. Anderson's marriage to Carol Thompson ended in divorce. He is survived by three sons.
      