
        J. B. Fuqua, a self-made businessman who built a multibillion-dollar conglomerate and became one of Duke University's biggest benefactors, died Wednesday at a hospital in Atlanta.
        The cause of death was complications from bronchitis. Mr. Fuqua was 87.
        The company he built, Fuqua Industries, was an eclectic corporation that included at various times film processors, movie theaters, radio stations, sporting-goods makers and oil distributors.
        An avid investor, Mr. Fuqua bought about 60 companies during his career.
        In 1988, Mr. Fuqua sold his majority interest in Fuqua Industries. He resigned from the company's board in 1991. The company was later renamed the Actava Group and it was sold a few years later.
        Though his formal education ended in high school, Mr. Fuqua began his long affiliation with Duke by borrowing books from the school's library. He gave Duke nearly $40 million and was one of the university's largest individual benefactors.
        The university named its school of business, which has more than 1,400 students, for Mr. Fuqua.
        Mr. Fuqua was born John Brooks Elam Jr. in 1918 and was raised on a small tobacco farm in Prospect, Va. His mother died when he was about 2 months old, so her parents raised him. When he was legally able to do so, he changed his name to Fuqua, his maternal grandparents' name.
        No fan of farm work, he built and operated a ham radio in high school. That skill came in handy during a stint in the merchant marine and later, when he worked at a radio station in Charleston, S.C. Eager to expand his horizons, he started investing in radio and television stations in the 1940's and 1950's. He was a pioneer in broadcasting in Georgia, building the first television station in Augusta, WJBF.
        After four terms in the Georgia legislature, he focused on buying and selling businesses, starting with Natco Corporation, a tile maker, which became the foundation of his conglomerate.
        Mr. Fuqua is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Rex, who runs a private investment company in Atlanta; and six grandchildren. Mr. Fuqua's other son, Alan, died in an airplane accident when he was 18 years old.
      