
        Stella Snead, a British Surrealist painter and collage artist who fled wartime Europe to work in the United States and later became a photographer noted for her books on India, died on March 18 in New York. She was 96.
        Her dealer, Pavel Zoubok, said she died of natural causes at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan.
        Ms. Snead's paintings of the 1940's -- nocturnal, dreamlike landscapes populated by fantastic animals and semi-human creatures -- reflected the influences of painters like Yves Tanguy and Max Ernst. Though not well remembered as a painter today, Ms. Snead exhibited her work frequently in the United States and Europe during that decade. In 1949, her work was included in the prestigious Carnegie International exhibition in Pittsburgh.
        But in the 1950's, she abruptly stopped painting. The reason was depression, she later wrote in a reminiscence. She had suffered bouts of it before, she wrote, and now the breakup of a romantic relationship had set off another episode, draining her of her desire to paint. So she turned to photography.
        In India, where she began making extended visits and where she lived throughout the 1960's, she took photographs of street life, nature and Hindu sculpture. She published eight books of photography, including ''Shiva's Pigeons: An Experience of India'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1972) and ''Animals in Four Worlds: Sculptures from India'' (University of Chicago Press, 1989).
        Stella Snead was born on April 2, 1910, in London. It was not until she was in her mid-20's that she decided to become a painter. She studied with the French abstract painter Amédée Ozenfant, who had opened an art school in London in 1936. The English Surrealist painter Leonora Carrington was a fellow student and a close friend.
        In 1939, with the outbreak of war against Germany, Ms. Snead moved to the United States. She lived mainly in New York City and Taos, N.M., for the next decade. After returning from India in 1971, she resided permanently in Manhattan. She had no immediate survivors.
        In the 60's and 70's, Ms. Snead produced collages from cut-up pieces of her own photographs. Some were published in a book, ''Can Drowning Be Fun? A Nonsense Book'' (Pont la Vue Press, 1992). And in the late 80's, after a hiatus of more than three decades, she began painting again, making copies from photographs of old paintings that had been lost or stolen.
        Recognition also returned to her in her later years. Last year, one of her paintings from the 1940's was included in ''Surrealism USA,'' a major survey of American Surrealists at the National Academy Museum in New York.
      