
        Dr. Paulina F. Kernberg, a child psychiatrist at Cornell and an authority on personality disorders who helped evaluate Elián González, the 6-year-old Cuban boy at the epicenter of an international custody battle in 2000, died on Wednesday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        The cause was bladder cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Kernberg, who studied the emotional effects of divorce, considered the trauma from divorce second only to a parent's death, and she helped found a clinical program for children of divorced families at NewYork-Presbyterian/Westchester hospital.
        From 1978 until her death, Dr. Kernberg was director of Cornell's residency training program in child and adolescent psychiatry in Westchester.
        Dr. Kernberg was one of three prominent experts on children appointed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to observe Elián's emotional state in what quickly became an inflammatory issue among Cuban-Americans and in Congress.
        Dr. Kernberg, who was fluent in Spanish, interviewed Elián and his relatives and found that he had a ''rich, varied relationship'' with his father, Juan Miguel González. (His mother drowned fleeing from Cuba to Florida; Elián was found floating in an inner tube along the Florida coast.)
        Dr. Kernberg concluded that while Elián was reasonably happy with his Miami relatives, to reunite him with his father would be ''in all likelihood not a traumatic experience producing lasting effects.'' Eventually, Elián's was returned to Cuba and his father.
        Dr. Jack D. Barchas, chairman of Cornell's psychiatry department and psychiatrist in chief at the Weill Cornell hospital, said that Dr. Kernberg ''knew how to listen to children.''
        ''She played with children,'' Dr. Barchas said, ''and helped adults to reach into the child's world, which is not a simple thing.''
        Dr. Kernberg developed a diagnostic technique for assessing a child's self-image, seating children in front of a mirror and gently questioning them.
        Dr. Barchas described the method as ''exciting and incredibly revealing, and it was surprising to see how powerful information about a child came tumbling out.''
        She later wrote a book, scheduled to be published this year, about the mirror technique, which is also used to explore child-parent interaction.
        An earlier book, ''Personality Disorders in Children and Adolescents'' (2000), written with Alan S. Weiner and Karen K. Bardenstein, who is Dr. Kernberg's daughter, examined the origins of narcissistic and antisocial disorders and argued against a notion, prevailing then, that children could not develop serious personality disorders. The book also argued that such disorders could be treated before they became a permanent part of the personality.
        Paulina Fischer Kernberg was born in Santiago, Chile. She received her undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Chile. She trained in psychiatry at the C. F. Menninger Memorial Hospital in Topeka, Kan., before joining the Topeka Institute for Psychoanalysis in 1969. She became an American citizen in 1968.
        Dr. Kernberg was named an associate professor of psychiatry at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University in 1977. The next year, she moved to Cornell as an associate professor and became a professor of psychiatry there in 1995. She also lectured at Columbia.
        She was a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and the American College of Psychiatrists.
        Dr. Kernberg is survived by her husband of 52 years, Dr. Otto F. Kernberg, a professor of psychiatry at Cornell and director of the Personality Disorders Institute at NewYork-Presbyterian; a son, Dr. Martin Kernberg, a radiologist and emergency physician, of San Francisco; two daughters, Karen Bardenstein, a psychologist, of Cleveland, and Adine Varah of San Francisco; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 20, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Saturday about Dr. Paulina F. Kernberg, a noted New York child psychiatrist, misstated the number of her grandchildren. There are six, not four.
      