
        Matt Kennedy, who was born in Coney Island more than a century ago and went on to become its biggest booster, gaining fame for gargantuan cigars, a George Burns sense of timing and a verve for extravagant exposition, died on March 22 in Brooklyn.
        He was 101, and his last act before the administration of last rites at Maimonides Medical Center was to mime the lighting of a stogie. He then took a symbolic puff, his final movement.
        His granddaughter Maureen Gillespie said a lot of things had begun to go wrong with Mr. Kennedy's longtime robust health, and he died of a heart attack. In 2004, he heartily celebrated his centennial with a round of birthday parties. In 2002 he had been on hand to bless the 75th birthday of the storied Cyclone roller coaster.
        At that event, Mr. Kennedy recalled that the ride did not really take off until Charles Lindbergh pronounced it ''greater than flying an airplane at top speed.''
        That might have been the zillionth time that Mr. Kennedy, long the executive secretary of the Coney Island Chamber of Commerce, combined history and hoopla.
        If he ever saw a beach crowd on a sunny July afternoon that did not exceed a million, he never said so, and who else could tell boyhood stories about delivering groceries to Lillian Russell? Or kicking the stilts out from under Archibald Leach (later known as Cary Grant) as he traipsed the boardwalk with a sandwich board?
        But as Coney Island deteriorated in the 1970's, as businesses deserted and crime raged, Mr. Kennedy's tales of seeing Theodore Roosevelt during a 1912 visit lost relevance. From his dreary office with window bars and paint-chipped walls at 15th Street and Surf Avenue, he led the struggle, often alone, to rescue Coney Island -- or at least to remind people that the fabled playground still existed.
        ''He kind of shepherded Coney Island through its darkest days,'' said Charles Denson, author of ''Coney Island Lost and Found'' (Ten Speed Press, 2003).
        Mr. Kennedy's 30-year fight for a baseball team ended in 2001 with the opening of a new Coney Island ballpark for the Brooklyn Cyclones. The Stillwell Avenue subway station was rebuilt at a cost of $280 million; businesses returned as Russian immigrants jump-started the economy; crime dropped; and investors now snap up Coney Island real estate.
        Dick Zigun, the founder of the nonprofit group Coney Island USA, said that Mr. Kennedy more than anyone else was the bridge between Coney Island's glorious honky-tonk past and its startlingly hip present. Mr. Zigun used to lunch daily with Mr. Kennedy, who always had liverwurst on Wonder bread. One lesson stood out. As Mr. Zigun recited it, ''When you are doing P.R. for Coney Island, the truth isn't as important as a charming story.''
        Mr. Kennedy declared that only the Eiffel Tower rivaled the Cyclone roller coaster. He boasted that Coney Island was the birthplace of Eskimo Pies, saltwater taffy and the carousel. (The correct places appear to be Iowa, Atlantic City and Philadelphia.)
        Matthew Francis Kennedy was born in a house near Coney Island Creek. His grandfather was a lighthouse keeper on Coney Island, his father a Coney Island police officer who directed the unsuccessful effort to put out the fire that destroyed Dreamland on May 27, 1911.
        Mr. Denson, the writer, said that Matt Kennedy may have been the last person to remember that amusement park, where a favorite attraction was a show with a cast of 2,000, including 150 firefighters who extinguished a real fire.
        As a boy, Mr. Kennedy canoed in the stretch of Coney Island Creek that once separated Coney Island from the rest of America. He knew the gangster Frankie Yale, who landed liquor at Coney Island during Prohibition.
        Mr. Kennedy's granddaughter said he had ''a million jobs,'' including working at a Coney Island bathhouse at 12, selling mattresses, and being resident manager of the Warwick Hotel in Manhattan. Mr. Denson said that Mr. Kennedy left the hotel because in those days it ''was full of kept women and all that, and it just wasn't right.''
        He and his young family then moved to Flatbush, Brooklyn, where he would live for the rest of his life. He got a job at Tesauro Lumber Company in Coney Island, and took over as executive secretary of the Chamber of Commerce after the death of his predecessor, Bill Nicholson, a good friend.
        His skills became so honed that he could put a positive spin on medical waste washing up on the beach: When reporters called, he said would-be swimmers were flocking to rides in awesome numbers.
        Unlike Milton Berger, who for many years did public relations for the chamber, Mr. Kennedy shunned plaid. His look was business suit, white shirt and fedora. But he at least matched Mr. Berger's razzmatazz. Before Coney Island's turnaround, Mr. Kennedy said in an interview with The Chicago Tribune in 1991: ''If you look at it through the eyes of a child, they don't see the devastation or neglect. They see the glamour and the rides and the shouts and gleeful attitude of the people.''
        Mr. Kennedy retired in 1994 at 90 after a cataract operation. His wife, the former Florence Campbell, to whom he was married for 72 years until her death in 2002, had maneuvered to keep him on the job for fear that he might curb her shopping sprees, his granddaughter said.
        He is survived by a daughter, Barbara Gillespie of Brooklyn; two sons, Matthew Jr., of Seaford, N.Y., and Paul, of Brooklyn; a sister, Agnes Wolz of Sunrise, Fla.; 16 grandchildren; 25 great-grandchildren; and 5 great-great-grandchildren.
        Coney Island more than survives Mr. Kennedy, not least because of the years when he was the only one to answer its phone. Many calls came from nostalgic retirees in Florida.
        ''People call and want to know the temperature of the water,'' Mr. Kennedy said in an interview with National Public Radio in 1999. ''I ask them to wait a minute and I'll go down and see.''
        Instead, he said, he'd go out and relieve himself and then ''come back and tell them 60 degrees or 70 or 68 or whatever number comes to mind, and they seem to be satisfied and thank me.''
      