
        Alida Valli, an Italian movie star who was described by both David O. Selznick and Benito Mussolini as the most beautiful woman in the world after Greta Garbo and who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Saturday at her home in Rome. She was 84.
        The office of the mayor of Rome, Walter Veltroni, announced the death to The Associated Press and other news organizations; the cause was not revealed.
        If there is one role for which film buffs particularly revere Ms. Valli, it is that of Anna Schmidt, the tragic Czech refugee heroine of Carol Reed's ''Third Man'' (1949). She was cast in that movie, based on the Graham Greene novel, after being summoned to Hollywood by Selznick. He insisted that she take the name Valli, hoping it would have the same magic as Garbo.
        But first he cast her with Gregory Peck in Hitchcock's ''Paradine Case'' and in ''The Miracle of the Bells,'' with Frank Sinatra.
        Ms. Valli's own life could well have inspired a screenplay. She was born in Pula, which is now in Croatia. According to the local-history Web site www.istrianet.org, she was born Alida Maria Laura von Altenburger, baroness of Marckenstein and Freuenberg, on May 3, 1921; her father was an Austrian journalist.
        The family moved to Como, Italy, and when she was 15 Ms. Valli enrolled at the Rome filmmaking school established by Mussolini.
        Her first movie role was in ''The Two Sergeants'' (1936). She then appeared in several costume dramas and ''white telephone'' movies, as shallow comedies of the 1940's were known in Italy. The most acclaimed and controversial movie she made during the war was ''We the Living, '' a two-part anti-Communist film based, without the author's permission, on an Ayn Rand novel.
        Rather than comply with the dictates of the fascist government, Ms. Valli retreated into hiding and in 1944 married Oscar de Mejo, a Surrealist painter and composer, whose most successful song was ''All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.'' In 1945 she resumed her acting career, and two years later she went to California with de Mejo, from whom she was divorced in 1952.
        But when her strong Italian accent proved to be a barrier to many roles, she returned to Italy, where she worked with great directors like Michelangelo Antonioni, Pier Paolo Pasolini and Bernardo Bertolucci, as well as Claude Chabrol and René Clément. She starred in the Luchino Visconti film ''Senso'' (1953), a role that won her the best-actress award at the 1954 Venice Film Festival.
        Her career suffered another setback that year when she was called to testify in a trial following a young woman's murder. After the trial, she struggled to restore her career, but it took several years. According to The Guardian of London, she lived for three years in Mexico, where she married Giancarlo Zagni, but again returned to Italy.
        One of Ms. Valli's most recent appearances was in 1995, in ''A Month at the Lake,'' with Vanessa Redgrave. As time passed and her face became gaunt, she took up the horror film genre, in movies like ''Les Yeux Sans Visage'' (''Eyes Without a Face''), made in France.
        Ms. Valli is survived by two sons, Carlo and Larry de Mejo.
        Correction:  April 26, 2006, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the Italian film star Alida Valli misstated the origin of ''The Third Man,'' the movie in which she made her most famous Hollywood appearance. The story was initially a screenplay by Graham Greene, not a novel; he later adapted it as a novel. In addition, The obituary also misidentified the composer of the song ''All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.'' It was Don Gardner, not Ms. Valli's husband Oscar de Mejo.
      