
        Howard A. Newman, who helped transform a struggling coal-mining company into a diversified conglomerate in the 1950's and 60's and later employed a similar strategy with the Western Pacific Railroad, died on April 12 at his home in Wellington, Fla., near West Palm Beach. Mr. Newman, who also had a home in Bedford, N.Y., was 85.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, a son, William, said.
        After more than 30 years at the helm of major American companies, and better known on Wall Street than on Main Street, Mr. Newman orchestrated the sale in 1986 of Western Pacific Industries, formerly the Western Pacific Railroad, and stepped down as chairman and chief executive.
        He never retired, but spent the rest of his life picking and managing investments, searching for undervalued businesses, and devoting himself to philanthropies including the Jewish Guild for the Blind. A horseman all his life, he was a former president of the Bedford Riding Lanes Association.
        Mr. Newman was the son of Jerome Newman, a Wall Street investor who joined forces in 1926 with Benjamin Graham to found the Graham-Newman Corporation, an investment firm. Mr. Graham, a groundbreaking proponent of finding and investing in undervalued companies known as value investing, hired and was a mentor to Warren E. Buffett, the founder and chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway.
        Mr. Newman, was born on Feb. 2, 1921, in Cedarhurst, N.Y., and was widely known as Micky. He developed a lifelong friendship with Mr. Buffett when they both worked at Graham-Newman.
        Mr. Newman, who graduated from Cornell University with a degree in economics in 1942, joined the firm after serving as a Naval officer in the Pacific during World War II, starting an import-export business in New York and selling it for a small fortune.
        Though Mr. Newman worked on a smaller scale, he and Mr. Buffett eventually took over troubled businesses and turned them into holding companies that expanded through acquisitions.
        Mr. Newman was catapulted to the top post of the coal-mining company, the Philadelphia and Reading Corporation, at the age of 34 after Graham-Newman bought a significant interest in the company. It had already moved into manufacturing clothing. Mr. Newman added boots, optical equipment and other products, and eventually sold the coal business.
        After merging the Philadelphia and Reading with Northwest Industries in 1968, Mr. Newman was chairman for two years, then became president and chief executive of the Western Pacific Railroad. He revived the railroad, but changed the company's name to Western Pacific Industries and emphasized manufacturing things like hand tools and precision instruments.
        Fruit of the Loom and Acme Boot were two units of Mr. Newman's Philadelphia and Reading Corporation that later went into decline. In 2001, long after he had left the corporate world, Mr. Newman helped Mr. Buffett engineer the purchase by Berkshire Hathaway of Fruit of the Loom. Mr. Buffett also bought the assets of Acme Boot.
        Mr. Newman was married four times; the first three marriages ended in divorce. Besides his son William, of Northampton, Mass., from his first marriage to Carole Kobin Newman, he is survived by two other children from that marriage, Jeffrey and Cynthia Newman-Diaz, both of New York; his fourth wife, Maria Tesseire Newman of Bedford, N.Y., to whom he was married for 30 years; two children from that marriage, Jessica Newman, of Paris and Wellington, and Jerome Newman, of Bedford, N.Y.; a sister, Patricia Nanon, of New York; and five grandchildren.
      