
        Dr. Charles L. Schepens, an eye researcher who developed sight-saving procedures and invented a device for viewing the retina that has, in turn, brought about new treatments to prevent blindness, died on March 28 at a hospital in Salem, Mass. He was 94.
        His death was announced by the Schepens Retina Associates Foundation, which he founded.
        Used by ophthalmologists worldwide, Dr. Schepens's device, a binocular indirect ophthalmoscope, was developed in 1945 and allows a more thorough examination of the retina, at the back of the eye.
        It was quickly recognized as an effective tool for diagnosing retinal detachments and tears, and its success aided Dr. Schepens (pronounced SKAY-pens) in founding the institute in 1950. The institute, recognized as a center for retinal research and blinding eye diseases, is in Boston and is affiliated with Harvard.
        The Schepens opthalmoscope provides a view of the retina through a dilated pupil. It uses lenses and a light source attached to a headband, ''like a coal miner's lamp, leaving a physician's hands free to depress the eye and check for minute tears and damage to the retina,'' said Dr. William S. Tasman, the ophthalmologist in chief at Wills Eye Hospital in Philadelphia and a professor of ophthalmology at the Jefferson Medical College.
        Dr. Tasman, a former student of Dr. Schepens, added: ''Sixty years later, the basic principles remain the same, and the instrument, with improvements, is still used. It made Charles Schepens a giant of medicine in the 20th century.''
        Dr. Schepens and his colleagues at the institute used the ophthalmoscope to develop treatments for retinal injuries typically linked to trauma, nearsightedness or diabetes. In the 1960's, they collaborated to find a means to close retinal tears using material sewn to the exterior of the eye.
        Dr. Stanley Chang, a vitreoretinal surgeon and the chairman of the Columbia ophthalmology department, said Dr. Schepens discovered that a belt of silicone rubber could be attached to the white of the eye, a procedure known as scleral buckling. The belt, or buckle, is permanent and provides tension to close a damaged retina, allowing fluid to drain.
        The technique, Dr. Chang added, has ''doubled the surgical success rate'' to 80 percent.
        In the 70's, Dr. Schepens and others devised operations for premature infants with detached and not fully formed retinas. They developed a technique, open-sky vitreous surgery, in which they removed the cornea to peel away a membrane, letting the retina fall correctly into position. The cornea was then replaced.
        The operation, often fruitful, has largely been supplanted by other techniques, Dr. Tasman said.
        Dr. Schepens and his fellow researchers also developed a scanning laser ophthalmoscope, used to produce an image of the retina. With Dr. Tatsuo Hirose and Dr. Mary Elizabeth Hartnett, he wrote an authoritative text, ''Schepens' Retinal Detachment and Allied Diseases'' (1983).
        The son of a physician, Charles Louis Schepens was born in Mouscron, Belgium. He received an undergraduate degree in mathematics and his medical degree from the University of Ghent. He served in the Belgian air force and trained in London, before arriving at Harvard in 1947.
        Dr. Schepens had a long association with the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary and Massachusetts General Hospital, where he was a consulting surgeon. From 1949 to 1972, he was the founding director of Massachusetts Eye and Ear retina service. He was also a clinical professor emeritus of ophthalmology at Harvard.
        Dr. Schepens became an American citizen in the 50's. Last month, France presented him with the Legion of Honor for his medical advancements and service in the Resistance in World War II.
        He continued to practice medicine until recently.
        The Smithsonian Institution made a prototype of the Schepens ophthalmoscope part of its permanent collection in 1990.
        The American Academy of Ophthalmology gave him its highest honor, the Laureate Award, in 2003.
        Surviving are his wife of 70 years, the former Marie vander Eecken, a medical illustrator who contributed to his research. The couple lived in Boston and Nahant, Mass.
        Also surviving are a son, Luc, of Southborough, Mass.; three daughters, Bernadette Butler of Nahant, Claire Delori of Brussels and Catherine Rojas of Petaluma, Calif.; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 15, 2006, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary last Saturday about Dr. Charles L. Schepens, an eye researcher who developed sight-saving procedures, omitted the full name of the institute he founded in Boston in 1950. It is the Schepens Eye Research Institute.
      