
        Vilgot Sjoman, a Swedish filmmaker whose notoriously risqué ''I Am Curious (Yellow),'' made in 1967 for $160,000, sufficiently alarmed censors to generate millions at the box office and jump-start a new cinematic explicitness, died on Sunday at a Stockholm hospital. He was 81.
        The cause was complications from a brain hemorrhage, the Swedish Joint Committee for Artistic and Literary Professionals said, according to The Associated Press.
        ''I Am Curious'' was not Mr. Sjoman's first brush with censors, only his most famous. His sexually bold 1964 film ''491'' was banned in Sweden and temporarily barred from the United States. His 1966 film, ''My Sister, My Love,'' was not banned, but its subject -- a wild, incestuous love affair between a twin brother and sister -- stirred impassioned discussion.
        Mr. Sjoman, a protégé of Ingmar Bergman, insisted that his wanderings to forbidden frontiers were in pursuit of honesty, not sensationalism -- and many students of film agreed. His avant-garde techniques were often compared to those of French New Wave directors like Jean-Luc Goddard.
        ''I Am Curious'' tells of the social, political and sexual journey of a young Swedish woman. Critics lauded it for its documentary-style techniques, hand-held cameras and interpolation of real and made-up events. But the United States Customs Service was most impressed by its simulated intercourse and not-so-simulated oral sex, and in January 1968 it summarily banned the film from the country as obscene.
        That November, a federal appeals court ruled that the movie was protected by the First Amendment, a move that allowed it to be released in March 1969. The movie made $5 million in six months. It remained the most financially successful foreign film in the United States for 23 years.
        The new frankness was quickly copied by critically praised films like ''Midnight Cowboy'' in 1969, but it also led to nudity-filled potboilers about nurses and stewardesses -- not to mention ''Deep Throat.''
        Charles Champlin, The Los Angeles Times movie critic at the time, wrote: ''The message of the movie is that there is evidently nothing the movies cannot show and tell an adult audience: a general, not a fetishist or lonely-old-man audience.''
        Mr. Sjoman professed not to understand all the fuss. He said he regarded himself as a puritan, but one who wanted to avoid romantic clichés.
        David Harald Vilgot Sjoman was born in Stockholm on Dec. 2, 1924, the son of a construction worker. He began working as a clerk in a cereal company at 15, then as an orderly in a prison.
        He wrote plays but could not get them published. He turned one of the plays into a novel, which he eventually adapted to a screenplay for Gustaf Molander's ''Trots/Defiance'' (1952). He received a scholarship in 1956 to the University of California at Los Angeles, where he took a six-month film course.
        In 1962 he directed his first movie, ''The Swedish Mistress.'' The next year, he worked with Bergman on ''Winter Light'' and later published a book on the making of the film, ''Diary With Ingmar Bergman.''
        The Internet Movie Database lists 25 movies and television series directed by Mr. Sjoman and 24 written by him. He was also a producer, cinematographer and editor and wrote 15 books.
        Mr. Sjoman's adventurousness was apparent in his 1968 movie, ''I Am Curious (Blue),'' which tells almost the same story as ''Yellow,'' with mostly the same characters. (The Swedish flag is blue and yellow.) But the differences left viewers with the ticklish feeling that the director was winking at them.
        Mr. Sjoman, who is survived by his wife, Lotta, two daughters and a son, could provoke strong sentiments. The critic Rex Reed wrote that ''I Am Curious (Yellow)'' was ''as good for you as drinking furniture polish.'' Norman Mailer claimed to feel like a better man after seeing it.
        The director clearly didn't mind taking playful chances. In a scene in ''My Sister, My Love,'' in which a couple made love, he trained the camera the entire time on a kitten walking warily around the room. And in his 1964 film, ''Til Sex Do Us Part,'' he has members of the Royal Swedish Opera Company grapple in an orgy while lustily vocalizing the quartet from ''Rigoletto.''
      