
        Red Hickey, who introduced the spread offense known as the shotgun to the National Football League while coaching the San Francisco 49ers in the early 1960's, died Thursday at a hospice in Aptos, Calif. He was 89.
        His death was announced by his son Jeffrey.
        Coaching the 49ers from 1959 to early in the 1963 season, Hickey never made the playoffs, but he left a lasting imprint on strategy.
        The 49ers, with a 4-4 record, were practicing at Georgetown University for their game against the two-time defending champion Baltimore Colts on Nov. 27, 1960, when Hickey called a meeting.
        ''I asked my players if any of them thought we could beat Baltimore with our regular offense, and not one hand went up,'' Hickey told The San Francisco Chronicle in 2001.
        Hoping to cope with a Colts rush led by linemen Art Donovan, Gino Marchetti and Big Daddy Lipscomb, Hickey scrapped the T formation.
        He had his quarterback stand about 5 yards behind the line instead of taking the snap while under center, and he spread his backs to the sides. That alignment, drawing on the double wing and short punt formations previously used in college football, gave the offense an extra second or two to develop a play. The quarterback could run, hand off to a crisscrossing back or throw.
        Their No. 3 quarterback, the rookie Bob Waters, engineered the winning touchdown on a late pass followed by a lateral after he replaced the injured John Brodie and Y. A. Tittle. The 49ers upset the Colts, 30-22.
        In the locker room, Hickey told reporters that his offense was simply ''spread right and spread left.''
        But moments later, as he related it to The Chronicle in 2001, he came up with something more sprightly. ''Well, I'm an old country boy, and I used to go hunting with a shotgun,'' he said. ''How about we call it the shotgun?''
        With Brodie, the rookie Billy Kilmer and Waters alternating as the shotgun quarterback in 1961 -- Tittle having been traded to the Giants -- the 49ers got off to a 4-1 start.
        But then they were trounced, 31-0, by the Chicago Bears, who put Bill George, their outstanding middle linebacker, on the line to anchor the defensive rush. George could penetrate because the 49ers' center lost a split second in blocking having to keep his quarterback in sight while snapping the ball.
        With the defense having adjusted to his offense, Hickey soon went back to the T formation. The shotgun was forgotten in the N.F.L. until Tom Landry, the Dallas Cowboys' coach, revived it in 1975 to use quarterback Roger Staubach's ability to run as well as throw. The formation is now a staple of football playbooks.
        Howard Wayne Hickey, an Arkansas native, played football and basketball for the University of Arkansas, then played end in the N.F.L. for the Steelers and the Cleveland and Los Angeles Rams in the 1940's.
        He had a 27-27-1 mark as coach of the 49ers and was later an assistant and a longtime national scout for the Cowboys.
        In addition to Jeffrey Hickey, of Inverness, Calif., he is survived by his sons Mike, of Sayville, N.Y., a former player personnel director for the Jets, and Patrick, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; a brother, Bailey, of Broken Arrow, Okla.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His wife, Cecelia, died in 1995.
        In the summer of 2001, Hickey visited the training camp of the 49ers, who were using the shotgun with quarterback Jeff Garcia after dropping it when they had the brilliant passers Joe Montana and Steve Young.
        Hickey remarked then how he sometimes heard football broadcasters recall the time he brought the shotgun to the pro game. ''That makes me happy as the devil,'' he told The Press Democrat of Santa Rosa, Calif. ''I guess I came up with something good.''
      