
        Alexis Bespaloff, wine columnist for New York Magazine for more than two decades, the author of six books on wine and a frequent contributor to food, wine and travel magazines, died on Saturday at his home in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, according to his wife, Cecelia Lewis.
        Mr. Bespaloff joined the ranks of prominent wine writers with the publication of ''The Signet Book of Wine'' in 1971. A nontechnical introduction to what was then a forbidding subject to most Americans, ''The Signet Book'' was revised and expanded in 1980 and again in 1985, selling well more than a million copies. ''Alexis Bespaloff's Guide to Inexpensive Wines'' appeared in 1973, and a literary anthology, ''The Fireside Book of Wine,'' was published in 1977. His revision and update of ''The Frank Schoonmaker Encyclopedia of Wine,'' first published in 1964, appeared in 1988. His column in New York Magazine ran from 1972 until 1996.
        Over the years, his articles were published in Food & Wine, Wine Enthusiast, GQ, Harper's Bazaar, Elle, House & Garden, Travel & Leisure, Connoisseur and Penthouse. He lectured widely and often appeared on television.
        Alexis Jacques Bespaloff was born in Bucharest, Romania, in 1934. Soon thereafter, the family moved to Belgium, then Brazil, finally settling in New York City on the eve of World War II. Mr. Bespaloff attended the Horace Mann School and graduated from Amherst College with a degree in English literature. He briefly attended the Harvard University Business School, dropping out to work as a publicist for Simon & Schuster.
        He soon moved from publishing into the wine business and found himself in Bordeaux, representing a New York importer. Returning to New York after 18 months in France, he worked for a time at Sherry-Lehmann, the wine retailer, before deciding he would rather write about wine than sell it.
        His interest in wine was first nurtured by an aunt, Juliette Elkon, author of ''A Belgian Cookbook.'' As an Amherst undergraduate, he organized informal wine groups and wrote his first tentative wine articles. Wholly committed to the arts -- painting, ballet, music -- he saw wine not so much as a commercial product but as an integral part of Western culture. And with the virtual explosion of winemaking and wine interest around the world, he considered himself fortunate to be involved in what he called the best of times for wine lovers.
        In a 2004 interview he said: ''It's not unusual for connoisseurs to look back with regret at having missed the golden age of their particular interest -- the Elizabethan age for poetry, perhaps the 17th century for Dutch painting, or the heyday of Bach or Mozart. For oenophiles, this is the golden age, and there is every reason to predict that the next millennium will enable this specialized world to shine even more brightly.''
        Among friends, Mr. Bespaloff was known as much for his acerbic wit as his wine knowledge. There was, for instance, his telephone-answering message: ''I cannot take your call right now, but if it's an emergency, white with fish and red with meat.''
        He is survived by his wife.
      