
        A fenced rectangular garden is 10 meters wide and 20 meters long. When one side is moved outward and two other sides are increased in length, the area increases by 40 square meters. What is the fewest number of meters of additional fencing needed to form the larger rectangular garden?
        George Lenchner, a nationally prominent mathematics educator whose work gave rise to interscholastic math leagues throughout the country, and who believed that with the right preparation, a seventh or eighth grader could solve the problem above in six minutes or less, died on April 23 in San Francisco. He was 88, which can be factored as 1, 2, 4, 8, 11, 22, 44 and 88.
        The cause was complications of a recent fall, his son Eric said. A longtime resident of East Meadow, N.Y., Mr. Lenchner moved to San Francisco several years ago.
        At his death, Mr. Lenchner was executive director emeritus of Mathematical Olympiads for Elementary and Middle Schools, a nonprofit educational organization he founded in 1979. Known familiarly as Math Olympiads or Moems, the organization sponsors programs and competitions for fourth through eighth graders.
        Before becoming a math teacher, Mr. Lenchner was, variously, a star lacrosse player, a multiply decorated war hero and an accompanist for Moe Howard of the Three Stooges.
        George Lenchner was born on Dec. 16, 1917, in Hartford and grew up in Brooklyn. In the early 1930's, he was a member of the math team at Boys High School, which competed citywide in the Interscholastic Algebra League.
        In 1939, Mr. Lenchner received a bachelor's degree from City College, where he played varsity lacrosse. (He was inducted into the college's athletic hall of fame in 1970.)
        A gifted musician, Mr. Lenchner was preparing for a career as a concert pianist when his studies were interrupted by World War II. As an Army lieutenant, he was badly wounded on D-Day while leading his company at Omaha Beach; he was awarded a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star.
        In 1948, Mr. Lenchner earned a master's degree in music from New York University. He went to work in the Borscht Belt, accompanying Moe Howard and other comedians in musical stage shows. Two years of this persuaded him to become a math teacher.
        Mr. Lenchner began his teaching career in 1950, at New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn. In 1953, he joined Valley Stream North High School on Long Island; he eventually became director of mathematics for the Valley Stream school district.
        In 1954, Mr. Lenchner founded the Nassau County Interscholastic Mathematics League, believed to be the first school math league in the United States outside New York City. After he published an article about the league in a national magazine for teachers, similar organizations sprang up throughout the country. Many came to be known by the general name Mathletes.
        Today, there is a thicket of math competitions around the world, among them the International Mathematical Olympiad and the American Mathematics Contest. Math Olympiads, Mr. Lenchner's organization, is notable for holding one of the few contests open to grade-schoolers.
        Math Olympiads currently serves more than 100,000 students in all 50 states and more than two dozen foreign countries, according to Richard Kalman, the executive director. Another 100,000 students belong to affiliated programs worldwide, he said.
        Besides his son Eric, of Oakland, Calif., Mr. Lenchner is survived by his wife, the former Edna Morris, whom he married in 1947; another son, David, of Santa Rosa, Calif.; three grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Lenchner earned a master's degree in math from Adelphi University in 1965 and a doctorate in math education from Columbia in 1972. He wrote several books, including ''Creative Problem Solving in School Mathematics: A Handbook for Teachers, Parents, Students and Other Interested People'' (Math Olympiads, 2005).
        To solve the fenced-garden problem, according to the Math Olympiads Web site (www.moems.org), start by drawing a picture:
        ''There are two possibilities,'' the solution continues. ''In the first picture, the 10-meter side has been moved. To enclose an extra 40 square meters, the two 20-meter sides are each lengthened by 4 meters. This requires an extra 8 meters of fencing.
        ''In the second picture, the 20-meter side has been moved. To enclose an extra 40 square meters, the two 10-meter sides are each lengthened by 2 meters. This requires an extra 4 meters of fencing. The least number of meters of additional fencing needed is 4 meters.''
        Correction:  May 18, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about George Lenchner, father of the Math Olympiad competition for young mathematics pupils, failed a basic math test when it described the relationship between his age, 88, and the series of numbers 1, 2, 4, 8, 11, 22, 44 and 88. They are the individual factors or divisors of 88, but not an example of how a number is factored.
      