
        James Keogh, a former executive editor of Time magazine and head of the White House speechwriting staff under President Richard M. Nixon, died on Wednesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 89.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his wife, Verna Keogh, said.
        Mr. Keogh, who lived in Greenwich, had the task of communicating the White House's messages to the public during several tumultuous years, first as Mr. Nixon's chief speechwriter and then as director of the United States Information Agency.
        As the head of the information agency from 1973 to 1977, Mr. Keogh helped explain the Watergate scandal and Mr. Nixon's resignation to the world through Voice of America broadcasts, a job he viewed as particularly important to people in places without democracy.
        ''In explaining what is happening in this country as a result of the Watergate affair,'' he said during a speech in 1973, ''we try to make the point to our overseas audiences that what they are seeing and hearing is this free and open society working out a problem.''
        Mr. Keogh started at the White House in 1969 as a special assistant to Mr. Nixon. He became head speechwriter about a year later, leading a team of young and aggressive writers that included Patrick J. Buchanan and William Safire.
        Before working in government, Mr. Keogh had a successful career at Time magazine, where he started as a national affairs reporter in 1951 and quickly rose through the ranks. He made important contributions as its executive editor in the 1960's, including design changes to the cover that last to this day, said Bernhard Auer, a former Time publisher who worked with him.
        ''He was incredible,'' Mr. Auer said. ''He had a good sense of feel and humor, and he always kept the team going. He knew that a magazine was a very delicate thing that had to have a feeling of humanity to it.''
        Born in rural Nebraska in 1916, Mr. Keogh received his early education in a one-room schoolhouse and earned his bachelor's degree from Creighton University in Omaha. He began his career in journalism in 1938 as a reporter with the Omaha World-Herald.
        Mr. Keogh met Mr. Nixon in 1956 while writing an article, which he later expanded into a book, ''This Is Nixon,'' that was published the same year.
        ''The thing started out as an objective study, but about two-thirds of the way through I found I was beginning to like the man, so I went back and revised the rest to reflect my partiality,'' he said in an article in The New York Times in 1969.
        Before his retirement in 1986, Mr. Keogh was executive director of the Business Roundtable, an association of chief executives, for 10 years.
        He also wrote a second book on Mr. Nixon, ''President Nixon and the Press,'' which was published in 1972.
        In addition to his wife of 66 years, Mr. Keogh is survived by a son, Kevin, of Greenwich; a daughter, Kathy Reed of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; a brother, Paul, of Columbus, Neb.; and six grandchildren.
      