
        Heinz Poll, a choreographer and a co-founder of the Ohio Ballet, died on Sunday at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 80.
        The cause was kidney disease, said Fran Schaul, a friend.
        Mr. Poll and Tom Skelton, the theater and dance lighting designer who was Mr. Poll's companion, founded the Chamber Ballet, later the Ohio Ballet, in Akron in 1968. Originally consisting of Mr. Poll's students at the University of Akron, where he taught ballet for many years, the company turned professional in 1974.
        Soon after, as it started intensive national touring and appeared internationally, the company began to gain national acclaim as a small troupe of well-trained classical dancers capable of performing in a wide range of styles. Mr. Poll was known as a demanding teacher but a company director who welcomed good dancers whose bodies were considered wrong for ballet.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1981, Anna Kisselgoff described Mr. Poll as ''a ballet choreographer with a modern-dance sensibility.'' Ohio Ballet served as an instrument for his meticulously worked, plotless classical choreography, including the lyrical ''Summer Night,'' set to Chopin; the poignant ''Scenes From Childhood,'' danced to Schumann; and ''Eight by Benny Goodman,'' an exuberant big-band piece that mixed ballet and ballroom dancing. But Mr. Poll had a darker artistic side, evident in works like ''Songs Without Words,'' a Holocaust ballet set to the Mendelssohn score, and ''Tristeza,'' created for Ellen Kogan, a mesmerizing spinning solo that recalled the suicide of Dore Hoyer, the German Expressionist dancer.
        Mr. Poll also acquired for his company's repertory many works by major choreographers like George Balanchine, Merce Cunningham, Laura Dean, Pilobolus and Paul Taylor, and he staged revivals of seldom-seen pieces like Kurt Jooss's ''Big City'' and Antony Tudor's ''Judgment of Paris,'' and Ruthanna Boris's 1951 ''Cakewalk.'' He retired as artistic director in 1999.
        Born in Oberhausen im Rheinland, Germany, Mr. Poll entered the Folkwang School in Essen-Werden to study acting. Since no acting classes were available at the time, he began training in dance in 1946, drawing on skills developed in childhood as a competitive ice skater. He performed with German companies, including the State Opera Ballet of East Berlin, but having weathered Hitler's Germany, he found the required classes in political ideology oppressive and joined the National Ballet of Chile. He performed there from 1951 to 1961, when he went to Ohio.
        No immediate family members survive. Mr. Skelton died in 1994.
        An urbane man, Mr. Poll was as comfortable visiting the Popcorn Park Zoo, a favorite refuge for abused, injured and elderly animals in Newark, as he was in fine Manhattan restaurants. He also had a wry sense of humor. ''When choreographers come to Akron,'' he said in a 1995 interview in The New York Times, ''they ask me what I want them to do. I say, 'Do what you want; just don't use too many people or put too many costumes on them.' ''
        Correction:  May 10, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on May 2 about Heinz Poll, a choreographer and a co-founder of the Ohio Ballet, misstated the site of the Popcorn Park Zoo, which he often visited. It is in Forked River, N.J.; Newark is the site of its office.
      