
        James B. McClatchy, the patriarch of a prominent newspaper family, died yesterday at his home in Carmichael, Calif.
        The McClatchy Company, which was founded by his great-grandfather, said the cause was complications from an infection after a recent operation. He was 85.
        A lifelong resident of Central Valley in California, Mr. McClatchy grew up in Fresno and started working as a copy boy at age 19 for The Fresno Bee, which was started by his father.
        In 1947, at age 27, Mr. McClatchy became a general assignment and education reporter at The Sacramento Bee, which was founded by his great-grandfather. At The Bee, his byline was found on articles about the oppressive working conditions for migrant farmers in the valley, military operations in the Pacific in the late 1940's, and on a series explaining the initiative to make Hawaii a state.
        Mr. McClatchy eventually moved to the business side, at one point owning and operating several small newspapers in California that were not part of the McClatchy Company. In 1980, he returned to the family business and became chairman. In 1987, he was appointed publisher of McClatchy Newspapers, overseeing corporate planning and acquisitions.
        Mr. McClatchy retired in 2005. The McClatchy Company, which owns The Minneapolis Star Tribune and The Sacramento Bee, has weathered declining readership and sagging ad revenue better than many newspaper companies.
        In March, McClatchy became the nation's second-largest newspaper chain, after Gannett, when it purchased Knight Ridder's 32 daily newspapers for $4.5 billion and immediately announced plans to sell 12 papers.
        So far, McClatchy, which prefers to operate in growing markets with little or no direct daily print competition, has sold 6 of the 12 -- including newspapers in St Paul; San Jose, Calif.; and the two papers in Philadelphia.
        While McClatchy is publicly traded, the business is controlled by the McClatchy family and is known for its conservative approach to growth.
        Mr. McClatchy served as president of the Inter American Press Association, where he helped create and promote the Declaration of Chapultepec, which was signed in 1994 by 27 Latin American and Caribbean countries and guarantees press freedom.
        James Briggs McClatchy was born in Sacramento on Dec. 17, 1920, the eldest son of Carlos and Phebe McClatchy. He spent much of his time outside of work aiming to improve conditions in the Central Valley, helping to start a group called Valley Vision, which promotes environmentally sound and sustainable solutions to transportation and urbanization issues.
        ''He was not antigrowth, but he thought that civic leaders could do a better job planning and not let growth happen haphazardly,'' his son William, a member of the McClatchy board, said.
        Mr. McClatchy also created a foundation devoted to helping children of immigrants in the Central Valley learn English.
        Survivors include his second wife, Susan; his sons, William and Carlos, both of San Francisco; and his brother William, of Napa Valley, Calif.
      