
        Luba Kadison Buloff, who went from playing children's roles to reigning as a leading lady in the Yiddish theater, helping bring its flavorful blend of wrenching drama and comedic shrug from Europe to the Lower East Side in the 1920's, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 99.
        Her daughter and sole survivor, Barbara Buloff of Manhattan, confirmed the death.
        Over five decades, billed as Luba Kadison, she played 7-year-old walk-ons, teenage ingénues and then starring roles in works by the greatest playwrights of Yiddish theater, including I. S. Singer and Sholem Asch. Often she co-starred with her husband, Joseph Buloff, whom she met in Poland. Mr. Buloff, who later moved on to well-known roles on Broadway, died in 1985.
        In her later years, Ms. Kadison was an interpreter for Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union and an acting teacher. She was also a voice of history, consulted by theater researchers like Caraid O'Brien, who is writing on a book on the Yiddish theater.
        ''She was an incredible mentor to a lot of young people and acting students,'' Ms. O'Brien said. ''Even though she never went to college, she was the most beautifully educated person I've ever known,'' Ms. O'Brien added. ''She taught me Yiddish.''
        ''On Stage, Off Stage: Memories of a Lifetime in the Yiddish Theater,'' which she and her husband wrote with Irving Genn, was published in 1992 by the Judaica Division, Harvard College Library.
        Luba Kadison was born on Dec. 14, 1906, in Kovno (now called Kaunas), in Lithuania. During World War I, her family moved to the capital, Vilnius, where her father, Leib Kadison, became a founder and the director of the Vilna Troupe. The company gained fame for its production of ''The Dybbuk,'' by S. Ansky, with Ms. Kadison at first playing a small part, but later taking over the lead role of Leah, the bride possessed by the title character, a malicious spirit.
        Soon after the war, the Vilna Troupe moved to Warsaw, where Mr. Buloff joined the company. In addition to acting, he directed ''Yoshke Muzicant'' by Osip Dimov, a folk tale told through the eyes of a child. Ms. Kadison, still a teenager, played the lead. She and Mr. Buloff were married in 1923.
        Five years later, the American impresario Maurice Schwartz invited the couple to New York to join his Yiddish Art Theater, on Second Avenue and 12th Street. There Ms. Kadison played opposite Stella Adler in Sholem Asch's ''God of Vengeance,'' among many other roles over the next 30 years.
        While Mr. Buloff began to get parts on Broadway, including the peddler Ali Hakim in the original production of ''Oklahoma,'' Ms. Kadison continued to play leading roles with the Yiddish Art Theater, including Dina, the spoiled wife, in the ''Brothers Ashkenazi,'' by I. J. Singer, and Malkeleh, a disturbed girl, in Singer's ''Yoshe Kalb.'' In one of her most famous performances, she played Linda, Willy Loman's suffering wife, in the Yiddish production of Arthur Miller's ''Death of a Salesman.''
      