
        Robert J. Schwartz, a stockbroker who was an early advocate of using investment choices to foster social change and environmental awareness, died May 9 in Manhattan. He was 88.
        The cause was heart failure, his grandson, Mathew Schwartz, said.
        ''Bob was the grandfather of socially responsible investing,'' said John Harrington, the founder of Working Assets, a group of mutual funds that back companies that adhere to its political principles. ''He advocated that you could be a prudent investor and still take social and human rights issues into account when you made investment decisions.''
        Mr. Schwartz began his campaign for principled investing in the 1950's when he left a job with the Treasury Department and went to work for the Amalgamated Bank in New York.
        While at Bache & Company and what became Shearson Lehman Hutton, Mr. Schwartz worked as a stockbroker helping union and church funds invest in ways consistent with their values.
        In 1983, while at Shearson, he started the Trust for Balanced Investment, a nutual fund that was to invest in companies that demonstrated commitment to workers' rights, environmental protection and other social aims. Leonard Woodcock, the former president of the United Automobile Workers union, agreed to serve as the fund's chairman.
        Shearson required that Mr. Schwartz raise $75 million in investments for the fund to be introduced, but before he could achieve that goal, the project was canceled by executives at American Express, which had acquired Shearson.
        Mr. Schwartz retired from Shearson in 1989 but continued to work at the firm part time investing money for some longtime clients.
        After earning a bachelor's degree in economics from City College and a master's in the same field from Columbia, Mr. Schwartz joined the Treasury Department in 1941 in the office of Foreign Funds Control, working on Puerto Rico.
        He joined the United States Marine Corps in 1944 and near the end of World War II, he served on the staff of the Marine Corps Air Command for the Okinawa campaign.
        In 1947, he returned to the Treasury Department, serving as the chief of the international statistics division. But he was forced to leave, his grandson said, as McCarthy-era politics made his political views unwelcome.
        ''He was not a communist, but he was what a lot of people would call a fellow traveler,'' Mathew Schwartz said.
        In 1988 he founded the organization that became Economists Allied for Arms Reduction, which sought to document the economic costs of military activities. The group is now called Economists for Peace and Security. He was also active in Peace Action for a Sane World, a disarmament organization. Mr. Schwartz was married twice, first to Beatrice Ross Schwartz, and then to Josephine Martin, a psychiatrist active in human rights campaigns. Ms. Martin died in 2000 and Ms. Schwartz died in 2002.
        He is survived by three grandchildren and one great-grandson.
        Mr. Schwartz was an early opponent of the Vietnam War. In 1966, he ran unsuccessfully on an antiwar platform for the Democratic nomination for the seat in New York's 17th Congressional district, which was vacated by John V. Lindsay when he was elected mayor.
        Mr. Schwartz helped organize protests against Dow Chemical, the producer of napalm, and he organized a group called Wall Street Executives Against the War.
        ''Initial attitudes on Wall Street ranged from unfriendly to hostile,'' Mr. Schwartz wrote. ''Not only was I opposed to the Vietnam War, but I was also opposed to the very profitable war industries.
        Mr. Schwartz, who had the backing of Shearson's powerful chief Sanford I. Weill, reveled in the controversy.
        ''I was considered a maverick of Wall Street (a designation I enjoyed),'' he wrote.
      