
        George Mgrdichian, a virtuoso on the oud, the pear-shaped lute common in Middle Eastern music, died on Sunday in the Bronx. He was 71 and lived in Wappingers Falls, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother, Roger.
        In solo recitals, dozens of albums and collaborations with jazz, classical and traditional musicians of all kinds, Mr. Mgrdichian (pronounced mug-er-DICH-ee-an) helped introduce American audiences to the oud and had a wide influence on the performance and study of the instrument.
        ''The way Segovia made it his life's mission to bring classical guitar to the world, George made it his mission to bring the beauties of the oud to the world, and to expand the language of the instrument,'' said Dennis Koster, a flamenco guitarist who began playing with Mr. Mgrdichian more than 20 years ago. Beginning in the early 1960's, when he moved to New York from Philadelphia to study clarinet and started mingling with folk and jazz musicians, Mr. Mgrdichian and his oud became ubiquitous. He played with David Amram, Phil Woods, Avram Pengas, Manny Dworman and Ali Hafid and performed in festivals and concerts of music from Morocco to Lebanon and Turkey.
        He also joined in early-music concerts at classical concert halls, played with Dave Brubeck and performed in concerts sponsored by major orchestras like the New York Philharmonic and the Philadelphia Orchestra. Recently he performed and recorded with the composer and singer Gerard Edery.
        The oud, particularly the fretless, 11-string Turkish variety that Mr. Mgrdichian played, has a thin, sweet tone and is usually used as a melodic instrument. But Mr. Mgrdichian was a restless innovator, using four fingers of his left hand instead of the customary two to fret the notes, and playing chords in addition to single notes. Nonetheless, he maintained a strong connection to traditional styles.
        His fellow musicians were often dazzled by his versatility. At one concert with players from the Metropolitan Opera and New York City Opera orchestras, Mr. Mgrdichian played his own arrangement of a Handel oboe concerto on the oud, causing jaws to drop all around him, Mr. Amram said.
        Despite his mastery of the instrument, he was self-taught, and his introduction to it was accidental. As a teenager in the early 1950's he played clarinet in an Armenian band that performed at weddings and dances. The oud player was drafted into military service, and Mr. Mgrdichian was handed the instrument to learn in a hurry.
        Mr. Mgrdichian received bachelor's and master's degrees in clarinet from Juilliard and studied ethnomusicology at Wesleyan University.
        In addition to his brother, of Philadelphia, he is survived by a sister, Joanne Ejdaharian, also of Philadelphia.
      