
        Lew Anderson, whose considerable success as a musician, arranger and bandleader paled before the celebrity he achieved as Clarabell the Clown, Howdy Doody's sidekick on one of television's first children's shows, died on Sunday in Hawthorne, N.Y.
        He was 84, but always felt he was around 25, his son Christopher said. His father died of complications of prostate cancer, he added.
        ''Well, his feet are big, his tummy's stout, but we could never do without,'' Buffalo Bob Smith and the Kids of the Peanut Gallery sang in appreciation of his character, in a baggy, striped costume, who communicated by honking a horn for yes and no, Harpo Marx style.
        Other times, Clarabell the Clown made his feelings known by spraying Buffalo Bob with seltzer, or playing a trick on him that everybody but Bob figured out immediately.
        Before there was Big Bird, Barney or SpongeBob, there was Howdy Doody and his friends in Doodyville. Baby boomers grew up with ''The Howdy Doody Show,'' which began in December 1947 at a time when only 20,000 homes in the country had television sets. It was the first network weekday children's show, the first to last more than 1,000 episodes and NBC's first regularly scheduled show to be broadcast in color.
        When it ended on Sept. 24, 1960, after 2,243 episodes, it was Clarabell who had the show's last words. Since until then he had only honked, they were also his first words.
        The camera moved in for a close-up of Mr. Anderson, who had a visible tear in his eye. A drum roll grew louder and then died. With quivering lips, Clarabell whispered, ''Goodbye, kids.''
        When Lewis Burr Anderson was born on May 7, 1922, in Kirkman, Iowa, nobody envisioned he would become a clownish celebrity. He was not the first Clarabell: that was Bob Keeshan, later known as Captain Kangaroo. He was not even the second Clarabell. That was Bobby Nicholson, who went on to play J. Cornelius Cobb on the show.
        What seems certain is that Mr. Anderson was Clarabell for an overwhelming majority of ''Howdy Doody'' shows from 1954 to 1960. In the opinion of Buffalo Bob Smith, who originated and starred in the show, he was also by far the best, according to Mr. Smith's memoir.
        Mr. Anderson's father was a railroad telegrapher. He began playing his sister's clarinet when she tired of it, and soon had his own band. He attended junior college in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and Drake University in Des Moines. He enlisted in the Navy during World War II and started a band between battles in the Pacific theater.
        After leaving the service, toured the Midwest with bands, honing his talent for arranging and composing music. In the late 1940's, he joined the Honey Dreamers, a singing group that appeared on radio and early television shows like ''The Ed Sullivan Show.'' The group appeared on a musical variety television show Mr. Smith produced for NBC.
        When the Clarabell part opened up on Mr. Smith's other show, ''Howdy Doody,'' Mr. Smith and the other producers asked Mr. Anderson if he could juggle. ''No.'' Dance? ''No.'' Magic tricks? ''No.'' What can you do? ''Nothing.''
        ''Perfect, you start tomorrow,'' Mr. Smith said.
        At first, Mr. Anderson saw Clarabell simply as a job paying more than $400 a week. Then, he began to be mobbed at personal appearances, and his fame lasted decades after the last broadcast. Mr. Anderson later profited from writing advertising jingles, but live music remained his passion. He formed his All-American Big Band, expert musicians from recording studios and Broadway shows, playing a book of 300 songs, a quarter of which he wrote himself. The band plans to play its regular gig this Friday at the Birdland jazz club in Manhattan.
        In 1990 John S. Wilson wrote in The New York Times, ''Mr. Anderson's band is not merely recalling the days of great swing bands; it is doing so with freshness, polish and originality.''
        Mr. Anderson, who lived in South Salem, N.Y., is survived by his wife, Peggy; his sons Christopher, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Lewis Jr., of Providence, R.I.; and five grandchildren.
        In 1987 Mr. Smith recalled the day Clarabell said goodbye. Unlike the first broadcasts, which were live, it had been taped earlier. When it was broadcast, he watched it with his family. ''I looked at my son and he was crying,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I looked at my wife and she was crying. I went straight to the country club where I played golf and shot the worst round of my life.''
        Correction:  May 24, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on May 17 of Lew Anderson, the last actor to play Clarabell the Clown on ''The Howdy Doody Show,'' omitted two surviving stepdaughters. They are Lorie George of Danbury, Conn., and Halley Leffler of Sandusky, Ohio.
      