
        James W. Carey, a respected communications theorist whose intellectual acrobatics added heft to the practical education of journalists at Columbia University, died on Tuesday at his home in Wakefield, R.I. He was 71.
        The cause was complications of emphysema, his son J. William Carey said.
        Dr. Carey -- who in 1988 was asked to join the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia as dean, but preferred to start as a professor -- began an academic doctoral program at a school where getting into print as a journalist had long been the proudest badge. His passion for journalism was immediately hailed, even as he published and spoke widely on communications theory.
        ''As is not universal in the upper-academic realm where Jim dwelt professionally, he loved journalists, and believed that universities have something to teach us,'' Nicholas Lemann, dean of the journalism school, said in a statement.
        The Ph.D. program Dr. Carey originated added scholarly luster to a school that some more ethereal academics had called lightweight. His eclectic interests and focus on real-world problems enticed shoe-leather scribes to address the theoretical subjects that are the staples of most communications schools.
        ''He offered a sense that journalism exists in kind of a seamless web with other forms of communication,'' said Todd Gitlin, a Columbia professor.
        Dr. Carey shunned the increasingly abstruse, highly mathematical theoretical work at the frontiers of his field, preferring instead to focus on underlying values. He drew from anthropology and sociology, James Joyce and Boston Red Sox lore, to explore the cultural dimensions of journalism in democracies. This took him from the quirks of futures markets to journalism in 18th-century France to Marshall McLuhan, the media theorist.
        His own most influential idea was the ''ritual theory'' of communications, a departure from the traditional ''transmission theory,'' which defines communication as getting ideas from one place to another. Dr. Carey argued that a newspaper is not a transmission of facts or truth. Rather, it is a form of drama.
        ''What is arrayed before the reader is not pure information but a portrayal of the contending forces in the world,'' he wrote in 1985. ''Moreover, as readers make their way through the paper, they engage in a continual shift of roles or of dramatic focus.''
        Dr. Carey was greatly influenced by McLuhan, who saw media as a transcendentally involving experience, but he rejected McLuhan's belief that technology trumps human will. He was inspired by John Dewey and other early sociologists at the University of Chicago who saw the mind and its formation as a communal, or cultural, process. Journalism, in his view, became our collective campfire storytelling.
        Dr. Carey, who was the CBS professor of international journalism at Columbia, wrote the books ''Television and the Press'' (1988), ''Communication as Culture'' (1989) and ''James Carey: A Critical Reader'' (1997).
        James William Carey was born in Providence on Sept. 7, 1934. He was found to have a rare heart disease that was likely to be fatal, leading his mother to decide to keep him out of school because an education would never be needed, said Daniel Carey, another of his sons.
        Besides his son J. William, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Daniel R., of Galway, Ireland, Mr. Carey is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Elizabeth Gilman, and his other sons, Timothy J., of Denver, and Matthew F., of West Hollywood, Calif..
        The young Mr. Carey was not allowed to play ball with his friends, but filled his days reading books and having adult conversations with retirees in his neighborhood. At 14, he was finally sent to school, and at 16 he got a job writing copy for a local advertising agency.
        He went on to the University of Rhode Island, where he majored in marketing and advertising. He earned his doctorate at the University of Illinois, where he wrote that he concentrated on ''a field yet to be invented, the economics of communications.''
        He taught at the University of Illinois College of Communications, rising to dean. In 1988, after turning down the Columbia deanship, he accepted a professorial post. He was editor of and contributor to many scholarly publications at a time when Columbia was urging journalism professors to do more academic research.
        In 1996, the deanship was again open and Dr. Carey this time expressed interest. James Boylan, in his book ''Pulitzer's School: Columbia University's School of Journalism, 1903-2003'' (2003), wrote that Dr. Carey was rejected after journalism practitioners demanded one of their own.
        Mr. Boylan went on to say that Columbia was viewed by schools of communication as ''eccentric and a little snobbish'' and that its faculty seldom appeared in lofty theoretical journals. He mentioned Dr. Carey -- who never worked at a news organization, even as a paperboy -- as an exception.
        The Ph.D. program he started began in 1998, and the first participants have begun to graduate. Dr. Carey was also involved in setting up a two-year master's program with more academic rigor than the traditional one-year version for journalism practitioners.
        Correction:  May 27, 2006, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about James W. Carey, a scholar of communications theory at the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University, misstated the length of the more academically rigorous master's degree program he helped to develop. It is one year, not two.
        Correction:  May 31, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Friday about James W. Carey, a scholar of communications, misstated the year he left the College of Communications at the University of Illinois, where he was dean, to become a professor at Columbia University. It was 1992, not 1988.
      