
        George Field, who fought isolationism, Fascism, Communism, racism, McCarthyism, anti-Semitism and other extremisms for three decades as the guiding spirit behind Freedom House, a nonpartisan organization dedicated to democracy and human rights, died Friday in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 101.
        Mr. Field died at Crosslands, a retirement community where he had lived for more than 20 years, said Donna Balkan, a granddaughter.
        A high school dropout whose boyhood hero was the Socialist Eugene V. Debs, Mr. Field dabbled in advertising, publicity, radio and politics before finding his calling in middle age. In 1940, appalled by the rise of Hitler and war in Europe and by a widespread American complacency called isolationism, he and a few friends in New York founded the National Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies.
        Its task -- changing America's attitude toward fighting a war an ocean away -- seemed Sisyphean. But it attracted the support of prominent people in the theater, the arts, journalism and government, and within a year it was drawing thousands to rallies at Madison Square Garden and making headlines.
        Little more than a month before the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in 1941, pulling America into World War II, Mr. Field, along with Wendell L. Willkie, the 1940 Republican presidential candidate, the journalists Dorothy Thompson and Herbert Bayard Swope and others, founded Freedom House in New York City as a counterpoint to the Nazi Braunhaus, Hitler's propaganda center in Munich.
        A merger of several anti-Nazi groups, Freedom House operated with a tiny staff, a shoestring budget and scant membership rolls. But its powerful allies, including Eleanor Roosevelt, the stars Helen Hayes, Burgess Meredith and Tallulah Bankhead, and, behind the scenes, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, gave it access to news columns and wide public attention.
        And as isolationism gave way to a national war effort after Pearl Harbor, Freedom House, with Mr. Field as its workhorse executive secretary, continued to promote democratic, anti-totalitarian themes with rallies, conferences, speeches, awards, pamphlets, advertisements and letters to newspapers.
        After World War II, it turned its guns on Soviet and Chinese Communism, anti-Semitism and the suppression of human rights in Eastern Europe and Asia. It championed the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and similar pacts, was an early proponent of civil rights legislation and condemned the Ku Klux Klan, lynchings and the Communist witch-hunts of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin.
        With Mr. Field as its administrator, the organization gave annual Freedom Awards, usually at well-attended dinners in Manhattan. Among the recipients were President Harry S. Truman, Mayor Willy Brandt of West Berlin and the columnist Walter Lippman.
        For many years, Freedom House shared its headquarters at 20 West 40th Street in Manhattan, known as the Wendell Willkie Memorial Building, with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Anti-Defamation League and the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith and other like-minded service organizations.
        The building was sold in 1985. Freedom House today has offices in Washington, New York and many cities abroad. For decades, the organization has issued annual assessments of freedom around the world, rating every country and citing some nations and regimes for praise or condemnation.
        Mr. Field retired as executive director of Freedom House in 1967, but served as secretary to the board of trustees until 1970. ''He was the one who made things work,'' said Roscoe Drummond, the columnist, who was chairman of the board. ''If we wanted money or an important 'name' to back up our policy statements, we'd call on George and he'd do it. He was the group's guiding force.''
        George Field was born in Manhattan on Dec. 20, 1904. At 16, he wrote a letter to Debs, his hero and a five-time Socialist Party presidential candidate. He had been imprisoned for speaking against American involvement in World War I and won nearly a million votes in the 1920 campaign for the White House, which he conducted from his cell at Leavenworth, Kan.
        ''We do not pity you,'' the young Mr. Field wrote. ''We admire you for your sincerity, your loyalty and spirit. You are the inspiration of a great movement, the faith of an intense struggle. You are jailed, Gene, but your spirit is broadcast. We, of the future generation, are educating ourselves and are preparing to continue the good work which you have thus far so nobly accomplished.''
        Responding to the Lincolnesque prose, Debs called it ''a sweet, touching letter,'' and referred to its author as ''the voice of the future.''
        Mr. Field nonetheless dropped out of the High School of Commerce and later abandoned socialist ideals. He worked at a variety of jobs in the 1920's and 30's, as an advertising copywriter, as program director for the radio station WEVD (whose call letters were Debs's initials), and as a publicist. He also joined the campaign that carried Fiorello H. La Guardia into City Hall in 1934.
        Mr. Field married Molly Mass in 1925. He is survived by their son, Paul Field of New Bern, N.C., and daughter, Ellen Balkan of Toronto, and by five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 1, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about George Field, a founder of Freedom House, a nonpartisan organization started to foster democracy and human rights in the face of Nazi propaganda, misspelled the surname of a newspaper columnist who received one of its annual Freedom Awards. He was Walter Lippmann, not Lippman. The obituary also misstated the location of the federal prison from which Mr. Field's boyhood hero and correspondent, Eugene V. Debs, ran his 1920 Socialist Party campaign for president. It was in Atlanta, not in Leavenworth, Kan.
      