
        R. Bruce Merrifield, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing a much quicker way to synthesize proteins, streamlining many medical and scientific experiments, died Sunday at his home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 84.
        His death was announced by Rockefeller University, where he was an emeritus professor.
        To speed up the synthesis of proteins and snippets of proteins known as peptides, Dr. Merrifield had a simple insight: He nailed down the first building block of the protein on a solid surface. Other building blocks would then be added, step by step.
        With the end of the protein firmly attached, the unused ingredients in each step could be easily washed away. Previously, chemists synthesized proteins in liquid solutions. At each step, they needed to carefully fish out the partial protein before adding on the next piece.
        Dr. Merrifield's technique, called solid phase peptide synthesis, cut the time of many experiments from years to days. In other instances, it made the impossible possible.
        ''There were materials we simply could not make by the older techniques with an infinite amount of time,'' said Richard DiMarchi, a professor of chemistry at Indiana University who worked in Dr. Merrifield's laboratory as a postdoctoral researcher three decades ago.
        The synthesis method provided an important tool for scientists to study enzymes, hormones and antibodies and sped up the development of drugs.
        ''This was a revolution in peptide chemistry,'' said Günter Blobel, a colleague of Dr. Merrifield's at Rockefeller.
        Born in Fort Worth, Robert Bruce Merrifield received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of California at Los Angeles, in 1943. He completed his Ph.D. in biochemistry there in 1949.
        He then moved across the country to New York, to work as a research assistant at Rockefeller, then known as the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. He became an assistant professor in 1957. He was promoted to associate professor a year later and full professor in 1966.
        Dr. Merrifield first reported his protein-making technique in 1962 and later built a machine to churn out proteins automatically.
        Dr. DiMarchi said that many other scientists remained skeptical that the method worked as well Dr. Merrifield claimed. ''I can assure you there were many, many questions about this methodology,'' Dr. DiMarchi said. ''Time has proven him so right. In fact, it's rare that the more classical methods are used.''
        When the Nobel Prize committee announced Dr. Merrifield as a winner in 1984, it described the method as ''simple and ingenious.''
        He retired in 1992, although he continued laboratory work until a few years ago.
        His scientific autobiography, ''Life During a Golden Age of Peptide Chemistry,'' was published in 1993. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Merrifield is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, a biologist who worked in his laboratory at Rockefeller University; a son, James Merrifield of Davidson, N.C.; five daughters, Nancy Waugh of Great Falls, Va., Betsy Grindstaff of Los Alamos, N.M., Cathy Edwards of Commerce City, Colo., Laurie Nelson of Chicago, Ill., and Sally Giannandrea of Marlton, N.J.; and 16 grandchildren.
      