
        Patrick Ntsoelengoe, known as Ace, who left the apartheid-era isolation of sports in South Africa to play soccer in North America for 11 seasons, was found dead in his car on Monday outside a hotel in Lenasia, South Africa, outside Johannesburg. He was 50.
        The cause of death has not been determined, according to police officials quoted by the Independent Online, a Web site of several South African newspapers, although SABC radio reported he died of heart failure.
        Ntsoelengoe (pronounced net-so-len-gy) had been working as a youth coach for the Kaizer Chiefs club outside Johannesburg.
        A lissome midfielder, he reached maturity as a soccer player in the early 1970's in a country that was barred from international competition. FIFA, the sport's worldwide governing body, suspended South Africa from international play in 1964 because of its policy of racial segregation and exclusion. The country was expelled from FIFA in 1976 and reinstated in 1992. In 2004, FIFA made South Africa the site of the 2010 World Cup.
        With no opportunity to play in tournaments like the African Cup of Nations or the World Cup, Ntsoelengoe and some of his contemporaries, like Jomo Sono, looked to the North American Soccer League; he returned in the off-season to play for the Kaizer Chiefs.
        Ntsoelengoe played 11 seasons in the N.A.S.L. for Miami (1973), Denver (1975), Minnesota (1976-81) and Toronto (1982-84). He scored 87 goals (eighth on the league's career list) and had 82 assists in 244 games.
        Ntsoelengoe had his most productive season playing for the Toronto Blizzard in 1982, when he scored 14 goals, and he played in the league championship match in 1976 (with Minnesota) and in 1983 and 1984 (with Toronto). The league folded after the 1984 season. Ntsoelengoe was a first-team All-Star in the N.A.S.L. in 1979 and in 1982.
        ''I bought him for $10,000 from Minnesota, where he was a hero,'' Clive Toye, the former president of the Blizzard, said in an e-mail message. ''If Ace had been playing in recent years, he would have been as famous as any of the current European stars. He had skill, vision, superb passing ability, scoring ability, confidence to do the unthinkable. A truly great player.
        ''Off the field he was a very quiet, gentle man. The only time I ever heard him complain was when the apartheid government of South Africa declared his part of the country a separate nation called Bophuthatswana (he was a Tswana) and took away his South African passport. Since no other nation recognized Bophuthatswana, we had to go through contortions to get him documents allowing him to return to Canada to play and travel with the Blizzard.''
        Ntsoelengoe was inducted into the United States National Soccer Hall of Fame in Oneonta, N.Y., in 2003. That year he also received a special lifetime achievement award from the premier of Gauteng Province in South Africa.
        Information on survivors was not immediately available.
      