
        Dimitri Hadzi, an internationally known sculptor whose most famous work is at once mythic and modernist, died on April 16 in Boston. He was 85 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was kidney failure, his wife, Cynthia, said.
        At his death, Mr. Hadzi was emeritus professor of visual and environmental studies at Harvard, where he had taught sculpture and printmaking for many years.
        Mr. Hadzi was known in particular for his semi-abstract sculptures in bronze and stone. Many have titles like ''Pillars of Hercules'' and ''Apollonian Libation'' that hark back to classical antiquity.
        His work, tall and imposing, gives hints of figuration, incorporating long, columnar forms that can suggest the limbs of people or animals. It was praised by critics for its impeccable craftsmanship, energy and carefully calibrated interplay of solid form with open space.
        In reviewing a 1961 exhibition of Mr. Hadzi's work in The New York Times, Brian O'Doherty called him ''a major talent,'' adding, ''He is a very thoughtful sculptor, and his work displaces space with the authority and logic of great conviction.''
        In New York, one of Mr. Hadzi's most visible public sculptures, ''K. 458 The Hunt,'' is on display in the lobby of Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center. Made of black-coated bronze, it stands more than 10 feet high on three sinuous limbs. Its title refers to Mozart's String Quartet in B flat, K. 458.
        His many other commissions include ''Omphalos,'' in Harvard Square; ''Thermopylae,'' at the John F. Kennedy Federal Building in Boston; and a pair of sculptured bronze doors for St. Paul's Within the Walls Episcopal Church in Rome.
        In recent years, Mr. Hadzi turned to making smaller sculptures of wood-fired stoneware, which nevertheless managed to convey a sense of epic proportion on a more intimate scale.
        Dimitri Hadzi was born in Greenwich Village on March 21, 1921, to parents who had emigrated from Greece. Raised in Brooklyn, he took classes at the Brooklyn Museum School of Art but went on to study chemistry at the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute.
        In World War II, Mr. Hadzi served with the Army Air Forces in the South Pacific. When the war was over, he resolved to become an artist after all and enrolled at Cooper Union.
        After graduating with honors in 1950, Mr. Hadzi accepted a Fulbright Fellowship to study in Greece, and for many years afterward he lived in Rome. He returned to the United States in the mid-1970's.
        Mr. Hadzi's first marriage, to Martha Leeb, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, the former Cynthia Hoyle von Thüna, Mr. Hadzi is survived by two children from his first marriage, Cristina, of Manhattan, and Stephen, of Holyoke, Mass; and a sister, Rebecca Mastropasqua of Brooklyn.
        Mr. Hadzi, who represented the United States in the Venice Biennales of 1956, 1958 and 1962, was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the National Academy of Design. He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1978.
        His work is in the collections of many major museums, among them the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum, the Guggenheim Museum, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.
      