
        Judith Moore, the author of ''Fat Girl,'' a searingly angry and widely praised memoir about being overweight, died on May 15 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 66.
        The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter Rebecca Moore.
        ''I am a short, squat toad of a woman,'' Ms. Moore wrote in ''Fat Girl,'' which was nominated for a National Book Critics Circle award last year when it was published.
        She continued: ''My upper arms are as big as those maroon-skinned bolognas that hang from butchers' ceilings. My belly juts out. The skin on my thighs is pocked.''
        ''I hate myself,'' she wrote. ''I have almost always hated myself.''
        At the heart of ''Fat Girl'' is the story of a brutal childhood. Ms. Moore was born in Stillwater, Okla. Her parents divorced when she was young. Her father, a lawyer, was obese, her mother slender. As a child Ms. Moore was shuttled between her mother and her maternal grandmother, both of whom beat her, she said. But her grandmother liked to cook, and so Judith devoured food, desperate to fill the emptiness inside her. And as she grew fat, both women derided her.
        Yet alongside the bitterness in ''Fat Girl'' are sensuous descriptions of food, ''three-layer coconut cakes and huckleberry and peach and boysenberry cobblers, crisp gingerbread cookies, Kadota figs afloat in clotted cream, cows' thick milk.''
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, the author Jane Stern called the book ''brilliant and angry and unsettling.''
        With her mordant humor and tart style, Ms. Moore was sometimes compared to another California writer, Joan Didion.
        Ms. Moore published two earlier books. ''The Left Coast of Paradise: California and the American Heart,'' a collection of essays published in 1987, included pieces on the political philosopher Herbert Marcuse, on a neurotic elephant and on a philosophically minded pimp. ''Never Eat Your Heart Out,'' in 1997, was also a memoir about her life and food, though without the anger of ''Fat Girl.''
        Ms. Moore was also a senior editor at The San Diego Reader, a weekly newspaper, where she was known for her almost uncanny intuition about how to bring out the best in writers.
        Ms. Moore married and divorced twice. In addition to Rebecca, of Dunedin, Fla., she is survived by a second daughter, Sarah Sullivan of Tacoma, Wash., and a grandson.
        Though Ms. Moore wrote in tones of self-loathing about being fat, and was at times overweight, she was not morbidly obese. Sometimes her weight was within normal range, Rebecca Moore said.
        So why did she always portray herself in books as a huge woman, hideous in her immensity? ''It was essentially what was beaten into her,'' Rebecca Moore said. ''No matter how fat she was, or how thin, she was always that fat girl.''
      