
        Val Guest, a prolific British filmmaker known for writing and directing a spate of genre films, some of them remarkably good and some of them remarkably bad, died on May 10 in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 94.The cause was prostate cancer, Mr. Guest's wife, Yolande Donlan, told The Los Angeles Times this week. The couple had lived in Palm Springs, Calif., in recent years.
        Mr. Guest was known in particular for two science fiction cult classics, ''The Day the Earth Caught Fire'' (1961) and ''The Quatermass Xperiment'' (1955), which was released in the United States as ''The Creeping Unknown.''
        In ''The Day the Earth Caught Fire,'' Earth, knocked off course by nuclear explosions, hurtles perilously toward the sun. Reviewing the film in The New York Times, A. H. Weiler called it ''both a laudable tract and a fairly taut thriller.''
        Directed by Mr. Guest with a script by him and Wolf Mankowitz, the film shared a Bafta Award for best screenplay. Considered the British Oscar, the award is presented annually by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.
        ''The Quatermass Xperiment,'' which Mr. Guest directed and helped write, told the story of a returned astronaut who metamorphoses into an alien. It helped establish the reputation of Hammer Films, the studio with which he was long associated, as purveyors of evocative low-budget horror.
        Mr. Guest also directed and helped write a well-regarded sequel, ''Quatermass 2,'' released in 1957.
        Critics also praised Mr. Guest's film ''Jigsaw'' (1962), a police procedural featuring his wife, Ms. Donlan, an American actress who worked in England.
        In other work, Mr. Guest directed memorable actors in forgettable movies. These included the comedies ''Mister Drake's Duck'' (1951), starring Douglas Fairbanks Jr. and Ms. Donlan as owners of a duck that lays uranium eggs; and ''Penny Princess'' (1952), in which Dirk Bogarde plays the love interest of a young woman (Ms. Donlan) who inherits a tiny European principality.
        There was worse to come, notably the beatnik drama ''Expresso Bongo'' (1960), which starred Cliff Richard as Bongo Herbert; and ''Toomorrow'' (1970), starring Olivia Newton-John. Mr. Guest was also one of a great many directors who worked on the poorly received James Bond spoof ''Casino Royale'' (1967).
        Most disastrous of all, many critics thought, was ''When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth'' (1970), which Mr. Guest wrote and directed. Based on a story by J. G. Ballard, it starred Victoria Vetri, a former Playboy centerfold, and was, The Daily Telegraph of London wrote last week, ''one of the worst films ever made.''
        Valmond Maurice Guest was born in London on Dec. 11, 1911. He played bit parts on stage and in films before becoming the London correspondent for The Hollywood Reporter and then turning to screenwriting. He made his directorial debut with ''The Nose Has It,'' a wartime instructional film about the perils of sneezing.
        In addition to Ms. Donlan, whom he married in 1954, Mr. Guest is survived by two sons and two grandchildren, The Los Angeles Times reported. Information on other survivors could not be confirmed.
        In later years, as The Telegraph wrote last week, Mr. Guest was ''self-deprecating about his films,'' and, when certain ones turned up on television, was moved to say he wished they had been destroyed.
      