
        Edward R. Broida, an architect and real estate developer who retired at 40 so he could devote his fortune to his passion, collecting contemporary art, died on April 14 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Gisele Galante Broida, said.
        On Wednesday, an exhibition, ''Against the Grain: Contemporary Art From the Edward R. Broida Collection,'' opened at the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan. On display are more than 100 of the 174 artworks that Mr. Broida donated to the museum last year. The exhibition will continue through July 10.
        Among the noted American artists that he collected were Philip Guston, Vija Celmins, Christopher Wilmarth and Mark di Suvero.
        ''Like Broida,'' said Ann Temkin, curator of the exhibition, ''they were or are all artists who followed their own path and can't be categorized or placed within an art historical movement, except to say they are contemporary.'' He collected some of the works before their makers had become famous, she said, and sometimes made a major commitment to an artist by collecting 20 or more pieces.
        Mr. Broida collected distinguished Modern art as well as contemporary pieces, acquiring one of Brancusi's famous ''Kiss'' sculptures. The piece, a plaster version, was sold at auction last fall for $3.6 million. At the time of the sale, Mr. Broida was planning his estate and selecting the contemporary works for his gift to the Museum of Modern Art that would best fill in gaps in its collection.
        Edward Roy Broida was born on Oct. 20, 1933, in Cleveland, where his father was an architect. He graduated with a degree in architecture from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. After several years of working in his father's office, Mr. Broida moved to Los Angeles, where, in 1962, he became a partner in R&B Development.
        The firm became noted for apartment complexes designed for young adults, including recreational and social facilities. By 1970, the company was restructured into Oakwood Worldwide, specializing in furnished temporary rental apartments for business executives who were relocating. This work was a forerunner of the extended-stay hotel industry.
        Mr. Broida retired in 1974, and over the next three decades collected about 700 works of art. In 1982 he announced his intention to open a museum of contemporary art in a four-story former bakery at Prince and Wooster Streets in the SoHo district of Manhattan. But after four years of planning, he abandoned the project, citing difficulties in acquiring zoning approval.
        In October Mr. Broida, a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, donated 108 paintings and sculptures, 54 drawings and 12 prints, by 38 artists. Museum officials would not place a dollar value on his donation.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Broida, who was previously married four times, is survived by two sons, David, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Eric, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and two daughters, Julie, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Alexa, of Manhattan.
      