
        Lou Carrol, an unknown traveling salesman from Texas whose spontaneous act of generosity one summer day in 1952 -- packing a puppy into a crate and shipping it to two little girls in Washington named Tricia and Julie -- has been credited with altering the course of American history, died on April 3 in Highland Park, Ill. He was 83 and lived in Barrington Hills, Ill.
        Mr. Carrol's death, which was made widely public only recently, was reported by the Solimine Funeral Home, in Lynn, Mass., his hometown. No cause was announced.
        The puppy, a black-and-white cocker spaniel named Checkers, became a famous political asset for the girls' father, Richard M. Nixon, then the Republican vice-presidential candidate. In a nationally televised address in September 1952, Nixon, responding to charges of fiscal impropriety, invoked Mr. Carrol's gift to sentimental effect.
        Known ever after as the Checkers speech, the address was widely believed to have solidified Nixon's precarious position as Dwight D. Eisenhower's running mate. The two men won in 1952 and again in 1956.
        Elected to the presidency in 1968 and 1972, Nixon resigned in 1974 amid the Watergate scandal.
        Louis Leon Karavoulias was born in Lynn on March 28, 1923. (The family, Greek immigrants, later Americanized their name to Carrol.) He earned a bachelor's degree in business from Indiana University in 1948 and began a sales career. He retired in 1996 as a senior executive vice president of Lawson Products, an industrial manufacturer in Des Plaines, Ill.
        In July 1952, Mr. Carrol happened to read a newspaper article in which Nixon's wife, Pat, said her daughters longed for a dog. Mr. Carrol was a Republican and an admirer of Nixon, then a senator from California. He also happened to have a litter of purebred pups, recently born to his spaniel, Boots.
        He fired off a telegram to Nixon's office, asking if he could send the girls a puppy. Soon after, he received an affirmative reply, written by Rose Mary Woods, Nixon's secretary.
        In September, a female pup was dispatched by train to Washington. Though Tricia Nixon was reported to have thought of the name Checkers, Mr. Carrol's first wife, Beatrice, took credit for naming her in an interview with The Chicago Tribune in 2002.
        On Sept. 23, 1952, Nixon appeared on television to answer accusations that he had improperly received more than $18,000 from supporters. He described his family's modest lifestyle, including Pat's ''respectable Republican cloth coat.'' Then he brought up Checkers:
        ''The kids, like all kids, love the dog, and I just want to say this, right now, that regardless of what they say about it, we're going to keep it.''
        Mr. Carrol is survived by his wife, the former Alice Buckley; three children from his first marriage, Robert, Clark and Lisa; a stepdaughter, Linda Buckley Ray; a brother, Arthur; and five grandchildren.
        Checkers died in 1964. As Mr. Carrol told The Chicago Tribune in 2002, ''I had no idea she'd be such a big deal.''
      