
        Dr. Lee Jong Wook, who led the World Health Organization as its director general as it struggled to cope with the spread of SARS, avian flu and other public health menaces, died yesterday in Geneva, where he was to attend the organization's annual meeting. He was 61.
        Spain's minister of health, Elena Salgado, announced Dr. Lee's death minutes before he was to have spoken to representatives of the agency's 192 member countries at the opening session of its weeklong meeting, known as the World Health Assembly. The organization, based in Geneva, is overseen by the United Nations.
        Dr. Lee suddenly fell ill on Saturday at a luncheon sponsored by the Chinese delegation, an official who was present said. He suffered a stroke and doctors performed emergency surgery to remove a blood clot in his brain, the organization said.
        Over the last 23 years, Dr. Lee had worked his way up the organization's ladder to become director general, its sixth, in July 2003, and the first South Korean to head a major international agency.
        His term was to expire in 2008. Dr. Anders Nordstrom, an assistant director, will serve as interim director general.
        The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, said Dr. Lee had been ''a strong voice for the right of every man, woman and child to health prevention and care, and advocated on behalf of the very poorest people.''
        Dr. Barry Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, who worked with Dr. Lee on tuberculosis, said that Dr. Lee ''may not have been smooth or highly articulate, but he was enormously effective in getting his goals accomplished.''
        A number of other public health experts, however, said yesterday that Dr. Lee's tenure had not been as successful as they had hoped.
        On taking office, he championed an AIDS treatment program known as ''3 by 5.'' It promised to make antiretroviral therapy accessible to three million people by the end of 2005, most of them in poor countries. The effort fell short of its goal by about a third.
        But Dr. William H. Foege, an international expert in public health, said the failure to achieve the ''3 by 5'' goal was ''insignificant compared to the courage of promoting a vision of what the world should be doing.''
        Dr. Lee later urged governments and private organizations to make anti-H.I.V. drugs universally accessible by 2010. He also encouraged health ministers to explore the role of social factors like illiteracy, poverty, and unemployment in engendering poor health, Dr. Foege said.
        Dr. Lee directed programs to rid many countries of polio and had hoped to eradicate it. That goal, too, has proved elusive, largely because the disease spread from Nigeria to 23 other countries after officials in the northern province of Kano temporarily banned polio immunizations.
        The World Health Organization was also saddled with low morale during Dr. Lee's term. Many of its 8,000 staff members participated in a one-day strike earlier this year, the first in the organization's 53-year history. But on Monday more than 1,000 staff members jammed a hall in Geneva to pay tribute to him, an organization spokeswoman said.
        Dr. Lee had strenuously campaigned to become director general, defeating Dr. Peter Piot, the executive director of the United Nations AIDS program, on a seventh ballot by the organization's executive board. A number of health experts had complained that Dr. Lee acted more like a politician than a scientist. But he said in an interview in 2003 that ''you can't make it to this position without being a politician.''
        Dr. Lee took over in the wake of the SARS epidemic and moved into the forefront of efforts to thwart the spread of the A(H5N1) avian influenza virus, pressing governments to develop emergency plans should national pandemics ensue.
        Born in Seoul, Korea, Dr. Lee was 5 years old when he, his mother and two brothers had to march 250 miles in 60 days through a bitterly cold winter to be reunited with his father during the Korean War. ''The first thing he did was take us to a bakery for cookies,'' Dr. Lee said in an interview in 2003. ''I cried.''
        His father and one brother went into politics, but Dr. Lee said that his mother pushed him toward medicine as a way to earn a steady living. After receiving a medical degree from Seoul National University, he dropped out and enrolled at the University of Hawaii to study public health, out of a belief, he said, that he could do more good that way.
        He earned a master's degree in public health but never finished his preventive medicine residency, choosing instead to take his first job with W.H.O. in 1983 working in the field on leprosy in Fiji.
        Dr. Lee is survived by his wife, Reiko, and one son, Tad.
        Correction:  May 25, 2006, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Dr. Lee Jon Wook, the director general of the World Health Organization, referred incorrectly at one point to the period in which the agency battled the spread of SARS. The agency did so before Dr. Lee assumed the leadership post, not during his tenure.
      