
        Melvin M. Lebetkin, a lawyer who went to prison for his role in the New York City Parking Violations Bureau scandal of the late 1980's, died on May 11 in Queens. He was 77.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Mr. Lebetkin's son, Steven. Before his legal fall, Mr. Lebetkin was a well-known criminal lawyer with offices near the courthouse in Queens. He was the model for Klein the Lawyer in newspaper columns by Jimmy Breslin, a recurring character who regularly faced financial and romantic travails.
        In 1982, Mr. Lebetkin played a principal role in the takeover of a nearly defunct debt-collection agency so that the company could begin collecting overdue parking fines for the city. In addition to giving bribes, the firm granted Donald R. Manes, the Queens borough president, and several other city officials secret ownership. As city officials, the conspirators were barred from ownership interest in a collection agency doing business with the Parking Violations Bureau.
        In July 1989, Mr. Lebetkin pleaded guilty to reduced charges of mail fraud in connection with the scheme, acknowledging that he had ''obtained money and property from the city by fraudulent means.'' He was sentenced to two years in prison. His son, an accountant with the company, was sentenced to four months in prison for trying to influence a witness.
        At the height of the scandal, on March 13, 1986, Mr. Manes, who was also the powerful boss of the Queens Democratic Party, committed suicide.
        According to federal prosecutors, Mr. Manes and Geoffrey G. Lindenauer, who was the deputy director of the city's Parking Violations Bureau, helped Mr. Lebetkin gain city contracts in exchange for their hidden partnerships, and for about $70,000 in bribes. Mr. Lindenauer eventually served 17 months in prison after pleading guilty to bribery charges.
        Melvin Moses Lebetkin, a lifelong resident of Queens, was born on Sept. 19, 1928. He graduated from Queens College and New York Law School. Besides his son, a Manhattan resident, he is survived by his fourth wife, Yvette Lebetkin of Queens; a brother, Julian, of New Jersey; a daughter, Karen Lebetkin of Queens, and a grandson.
      