
        Hans Fantel, a pioneering writer on high fidelity who produced a column on home electronics for The New York Times for 17 years and wrote movingly about his life in prewar Vienna, died on Sunday. He was 84.
        Mr. Fantel died in Springfield, Mass., of injuries suffered in a car accident on May 5, said Christine Hobbie, a neighbor and friend.
        Mr. Fantel was a freelance writer for much of his life, issuing books and articles on a broad range of subjects. His books included ''William Penn: Apostle of Dissent'' and ''The Waltz Kings,'' about the Strauss composing family.
        But his focus was classical music and sound recordings. Mr. Fantel was a founding editor of Stereo Review, which for years was a touchstone for stereophiles. His byline first appeared in The Times in 1963. From 1977 to 1994, he turned out columns for the newspaper under the rubrics ''Sound'' and ''Video,'' and later ''Home Entertainment,'' transforming the technical jargon of the day into clear prose.
        He often summoned up his boyhood in Vienna in the 1920's and 30's.
        In one column, Mr. Fantel recalled his most beloved Christmas present: a complete set of the Beethoven symphonies, conducted by Felix Weingartner. It was given by his father, Fritz Fantel, whose company made the first home radio receivers in Austria.
        ''My father saw in the new technology something miraculous: a machine to transcend the limits of time and space that had constrained music since its beginning,'' he wrote. ''Perhaps he hoped that the music I was learning under his guidance would provide me with nourishment in dark times when he could no longer take care of me.''
        Mr. Fantel was 16 when he last saw his father, an opponent of Germany's rearmament whose mother was Jewish. He was arrested by the Nazis and later executed.
        Hans Fantel was born March 1, 1922, and was named after Hans Sachs, the character in Wagner's ''Meistersinger von Nürnberg.'' He was an only child.
        Shortly after his father's arrest, authorities discovered Hans's Jewish heritage and expelled him from school. He escaped to Czechoslovakia, served in the underground there and made his way to Tunis. The American consul, a fellow classical music lover, helped Mr. Fantel come to the United States. He arrived in New York in 1941.
        Knowing little English, he worked at a picture frame factory, learning the language from radio broadcasts. He earned a biology degree from the University of Missouri, worked as a technical translator for the Air Force and moved to New York in the early 1950's. He is survived by his wife, Shea Fantel. The couple had no children and lived in New Marlborough, Mass., also keeping a New York apartment.
        Memories of youth burned strong in Mr. Fantel, a round, sweet-tempered man who kept a strong German accent. In one column, he wrote of receiving a CD of a concert he had attended more than 50 years before with his father. It was by the Vienna Philharmonic, playing Mahler's Ninth, in the orchestra's last concert before Hitler's annexation.
        The music and the time it evoked cast a spell, he said. But there was something else. ''This disk held fast an event I had shared with my father: 71 minutes out of the 16 years we had together,'' he wrote. ''That's what made me realize something about the nature of phonographs: they admit no ending. They imply perpetuity.''
        He added, ''In the perennial rebirth of music through recordings, something of life itself steps over the normal limits of time.''
      