
        Grant McLennan, one of the founders and leaders of the influential Australian rock band the Go-Betweens, died on Saturday at his home in Brisbane. He was 48.
        His death was announced by a spokesman for Yep Roc, the Go-Betweens' American record label. No cause was given.
        The Go-Betweens were never a chart-topping act, even in their native country. But Mr. McLennan and the group's other songwriter, Robert Forster, created a distinctive mix of rock energy, pop tunefulness and literate lyrics that earned the band the admiration of critics and a relatively small but intensely loyal cult following. That following included members of U2, R.E.M. and Coldplay.
        Mr. McLennan was a student at the University of Queensland in Brisbane in 1977 when he formed the Go-Betweens with Mr. Forster, a fellow student, who shared his interest in poetry, movies, and the music of Bob Dylan, the Velvet Underground and others.
        Mr. McLennan told an interviewer last year that music had not been his ambition before Mr. Forster suggested putting a band together. ''I wanted to be Australia's most interesting filmmaker,'' he said. ''Or I wanted to go to Paris and be a poet. I wanted to be a choreographer for the Royal Ballet. All sorts of things. Certainly I never thought once about being a rock 'n' roll star or anything.''
        The Go-Betweens released a few singles and then, in 1981, their first album, ''Send Me a Lullaby.'' After a decade of sporadic success, they disbanded in 1989, even though their song ''Streets of Your Town,'' released the previous year, was a minor hit in Britain and became one of their few songs to receive any significant radio play in the United States.
        Mr. McLennan's specialty was love songs, often melancholy in nature. But his best known, ''Cattle and Cane,'' was a nostalgic reverie about his childhood in rural Queensland. It was recently voted one of the 10 greatest Australian songs of all time by the Australasian Performing Rights Association.
        In the 1990's Mr. McLennan and Mr. Forster both pursued solo careers, with mixed success, before reuniting in 2000 to form a new version of the Go-Betweens. That band remained together and, at the time of Mr. McLennan's death, was recording an album and planning to tour.
        Mr. McLennan's survivors include his mother, Wendy; a sister, Sally; a brother, Lachlan; and a son, Nathan.
      