
        Vincent J. Cristofalo, a cell biologist who became an authority on aging by studying the mechanisms that cause human cells to divide, mature and ultimately deteriorate, died on May 8 in Philadelphia. He was 73.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Cristofalo began his career working on the metabolism of cancer cells and later shifted to examine the life span of healthy cells in the field of cell senescence. He studied the effects of oxygen, vitamin E and hydrocortisone on cell replication and posed questions about the genetics and evolutionary function of aging and natural disintegration in cell cultures.
        In 1998, Dr. Cristofalo and others published an influential paper, ''Relationship Between Donor Age and the Replicative Life Span of Human Cells in Culture,'' in which they presented findings suggesting that cells from elderly people were not necessarily diminished in their capacity to divide and proliferate. The paper was published in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Richard C. Adelman, an emeritus professor of biological chemistry at the University of Michigan Institute of Gerontology, said the paper successfully challenged an accepted concept about declining cell capacity in the elderly.
        Dr. Cristofalo taught at the University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, the Wistar Institute, the Medical College of Pennsylvania, the Allegheny University of the Health Sciences and, since 2000, at Thomas Jefferson University, where he was a professor of pathology, anatomy and cell biology.
        Vincent Joseph Cristofalo was born in Philadelphia. He earned an undergraduate degree from St. Joseph's College and a master's from Temple. In 1962, he received his doctorate in physiology and biochemistry from the University of Delaware. After Penn named him an assistant professor of animal biology in 1967, he helped found the Institute on Aging and held appointments in physiology and social work.
        Dr. Cristofalo was a former president of the Lankenau Institute for Medical Research in Wynnewood, Pa.
        In 1990, he was president of the Gerontological Society of America and, from 1996 to 1998, president of the American Federation for Aging Research. He was also a former editor of The Journal of Gerontology: Biological Sciences.
        Dr. Cristofalo lived in Narberth, Pa., with his wife, the former Margaret Follet, who survives. Also surviving are six daughters, Carolyn Muttreja of Rydal, Pa.; Jean Looney of Summit, N.J.; Dr. Elizabeth Cristofalo, a neonatologist, of Baltimore; Catherine Cristofalo of Philadelphia; and Helen Cristofalo of Manhattan; two sisters, Marie Cristofalo and Rosalie Foster, both of Havertown, Pa.; and four grandchildren.
      