
        Bernard Loomis, who had no toys as a child but became a toy industry legend by using children's television to turn Star Wars dolls, Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears into stupendous successes, died on Friday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 82.
        The cause was heart disease, his daughter Merrill said.
        Mr. Loomis originated the idea of producing television specials and series that promoted toys as much as they entertained. This reversed the suddenly quaint notion that toy-selling followed the movie, book or television program.
        His television special featuring the character Strawberry Shortcake ''opened the way for what sometimes seemed to be the transformation of children's television into a promotional arm of the toy industry,'' David Owen wrote in The Atlantic in 1986.
        Mr. Owen included the article in a book of essays he published in 1988. The title referred to Mr. Loomis: ''The Man Who Invented Saturday Morning.''
        Similarly, Mr. Loomis pioneered the notion of selling lines of toys, not individual products. That created the possibility of concocting entire imaginary environments with ever more products, as exemplified by the Barbie doll, whose career he shepherded for a time.
        ''Manufacturers create a fantasy world, and this has led to a very sophisticated relationship between them and the child,'' Mr. Loomis said in an interview with Time in 1985. ''We are now in the business of multiple sales to the same children in the same fantasy.''
        While his most lasting impact came from making toys into both Saturday morning stars and salesmen of themselves, Mr. Loomis's most celebrated single marketing triumph came in the holiday season of 1977 after he presciently acquired a license to sell action figures based on the new ''Star Wars'' movie, knowing only that he liked the name. When the movie opened, demand for the toys dwarfed supply, so Mr. Loomis sold gift certificates in otherwise empty boxes. He sold more than 500,000.
        When he was inducted into the Toy Industry Hall of Fame in 1992, his citation said, ''He brought to market an incomparable portfolio of blockbusters, once selling empty boxes at Christmas with the promise of a hit toy to be delivered later.''
        Other products Mr. Loomis pushed, including an action figure based on the television program ''Six Million Dollar Man,'' were also huge hits. In 1985, Douglas Thomson, president of the Toy Manufacturers of America, said in an interview with The New York Times, ''He's probably the most astute man in the industry for the selection and marketing of products.''
        As Mr. Loomis moved among the top companies in his industry -- Mattel to Kenner to General Mills -- he earned a reputation for improving each. Mr. Owen observed that he ''had been associated with the largest toy company in the world at the moment it became the largest toy company, on three separate occasions.''
        Bernard Loomis was born in the Bronx on July 4, 1923. His father, a Russian immigrant who scraped by as an itinerant salesman, had no money to buy him toys. His favorite substitute was a Lionel electric train catalog; its pictures allowed him to imagine he ran a vast railroad.
        He figured out how to use a deck of cards to play a full fantasy American League baseball season, making up his own results according to the turn of the cards. Each card meant something specific: a ball, strike, pop fly. In fat notebooks, he kept records of not only scores, but batting averages. By season's end, he had played every game on the schedule.
        He was a large, precocious boy, skipping several grades and getting a job parking cars at Yankee Stadium at 11. He served with the Army Air Corps in the Philippines during World War II, then attended New York University and sold hardware before becoming a toy salesman.
        In 1960, he joined Mattel, rising from sales to vice president and helping develop strategy for Chatty Cathy, the first talking doll. In 1969, when Mattel came out with its Hot Wheels line of miniature cars, Mr. Loomis proposed a 30-minute ''Hot Wheels'' cartoon show.
        The Federal Communications Commission responded to a competitor's complaint and asked stations to log part of the show as advertising time. That killed such marketing strategies until 1980, when less strict regulators allowed Mr. Loomis's ''Strawberry Shortcake'' special.
        Mr. Loomis is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Lillian Prince; his daughters Merrill, of Napa, Calif., and Debra Jan, of Middletown, Calif., and two grandchildren.
        He coined the word ''toyetic'' to describe concepts or characters that could easily be mass-produced toys, and prided himself in judging this elusive quality. He did have the occasional flops -- Duke the Wonder Dog, for instance.
        But usually his instincts proved improbably right, as when engineers showed up at a meeting with a wooden model of a doll that chewed its food, then eliminated it into a disposable diaper. The group joked dismissively about peristaltic action, then moved on.
        ''It's very funny, and I think it will sell a million dolls,'' Mr. Loomis interjected. Named Baby Alive, it became a best seller.
      