
        Sol W. Cantor, an early proponent of discount retailing featuring warehouse-style stores, died Friday in Manhattan, his son, Robert, said. He was 95.
        Born and raised in New York City, Mr. Cantor began his retailing career on the Lower East Side, selling fabric.
        He joined Interstate Department Stores in 1933 as a messenger, and spent the next four decades with the company. After being promoted to assistant buyer for curtains, he rose through the company's ranks to become president in 1952 and chairman and chief executive in 1968.
        An early believer in the concept of discount stores, Mr. Cantor helped transform Interstate, a conventional department store chain in the Northeast, into what was one of the country's fastest-growing discount chains, with stores including White Front and Topps.
        Interstate had begun experimenting with large discount stores in old textile mills in the late 1950's.
        By the early 1960's, Mr. Cantor was predicting that ''in the next four or five years discounting will appeal to 85 percent of the American public.'' While he never predicted the demise of the traditional department store, he led the company to focus on discount stores and specialty retailers, including Children's Supermart, the predecessor of Toys ''R'' Us, which he acquired in the mid-1960's.
        Interstate Department Stores filed for bankruptcy in 1974, and Toys ''R'' Us emerged as the surviving company in 1978.
        After retiring from Interstate around that time, Mr. Cantor became a private investor and philanthropist.
        He was a member of the board of overseers at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and was involved in a variety of Jewish philanthropies, including the United Jewish Appeal and the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith.
        Mr. Cantor was born in New York City on Jan. 6, 1911.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Muriel, of Palm Beach, Fla., and New York; a daughter, Ellen Peck, of Palm Beach and New York; two grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren. His first wife, Hermina, died in 1979.
      