
        Louis B. Sohn, a professor of international law who helped draft parts of the United Nations Charter in 1945 and was a leader in subsequent efforts to turn the United Nations into a true world government, died on June 7 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 92.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, said Paige Otwell, a friend.
        For nearly 50 years, while at the Harvard School of Law and then the University of Georgia School of Law, Professor Sohn served on commissions and organized conferences around the world, championing disarmament, human rights and increased powers for the United Nations.
        He called for the creation of a permanent United Nations peace force. He wanted nations with nuclear arsenals to hand them over to the United Nations and use their military budgets for relieving poverty. He campaigned to have the 1948 United Nations Declaration of Human Rights accepted as a legally binding document, rather than a statement of principles. In 1968, the General Assembly adopted that premise.
        Those proposals and others were seized upon by American isolationists to attack the United Nations. Professor Sohn called them ''the minimum requirements for peace, not a utopian scheme for a perfect world community.''
        Louis Bruno Sohn was born on March 1, 1914, in what was then Lwow, now Lviv, then part of Poland but now in Ukraine. He graduated from John Casimir University there and then earned a law degree in 1939.
        Professor Sohn's parents, Isaak and Fredericka Sohn, were doctors. His father, taken to an internment camp after the invasion of Poland, barely survived World War II. His mother died of pneumonia that first winter.
        Two weeks before the invasion, at the invitation of a Harvard law professor who read one of his legal treatises, Professor Sohn had boarded a ship to the United States to become a research fellow. In 1941, he married Betty Mayo, a Radcliffe student; she is his only survivor.
        At Harvard, he became an assistant to Manley O. Hudson, a judge on the Permanent Court of International Justice at the Hague, which was established by the League of Nations but suspended during the war. Judge Hudson was the Bemis Professor of International Law at Harvard. Professor Sohn succeeded to the Bemis chair in 1961 and held it until 1981.
        In the summer of 1945, Judge Hudson and his assistant traveled to San Francisco for the United Nations charter conference. There, they helped draft the statute establishing the International Court of Justice, or World Court, as the successor to the Permanent Court of International Justice.
        In an interview in 1977, Professor Sohn recalled how Harvard had asked him to teach a course on the United Nations after his return from the charter conference, ''because nobody else would teach anything so crazy.''
        In 1958, Professor Sohn was a co-author, with Grenville Clark, of ''World Peace Through World Law'' (Harvard University Press), which examined proposals to transform the United Nations into a world government. The book envisioned a time when the United Nations budget, then $55 million, would surpass $35 billion, with $25 billion set aside to mitigate ''the worst economic disparities between nations.''
        The authors also called for the elimination of all armaments in 12 years and envisioned that the United Nations would then have a monopoly on military force and would maintain a peace force of 400,000 soldiers.
        In 1967, Professor Sohn wrote a report for a committee of international law experts, urging the United Nations to study the threat to individual freedom posed by computers, eavesdropping devices and genetic engineering. The report, submitted to the United Nations as part of the 20th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, said the concept of national data banks ''raises the specter of a government which knows all.''
        ''Arrangements have to be devised,'' it said, ''to control the precious few who run the machines, and on whose wisdom and impartiality the fate of mankind may depend.''
        In 1977, Professor Sohn was a delegate to a United Nations-sponsored conference that drafted the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which the General Assembly adopted in 1982.
        In 1981, after 35 years at Harvard, Professor Sohn accepted an invitation from Dean Rusk, who had been secretary of state under President John F. Kennedy, to join him in teaching international law at the University of Georgia.
      