
        Arthur M. Wood, the executive at Sears, Roebuck & Company who oversaw the completion of the company's tower in Chicago even as the chain's domination of the American retail market was eroding, died Sunday in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 93.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, according to his son, Art Wood Jr.
        Mr. Wood spent most of his career at Sears, the retailing giant that was much a part of America's postwar economic boom, suburban expansion and consumer prosperity.
        When he was appointed chairman and chief executive in 1973, Business Week called him a ''sophisticated urbane intellectual with impeccable social credentials,'' according to the book ''The Big Store: Inside the Crisis and Revolution at Sears.'' He served until 1978, when he retired at age 65.
        In those days, Sears dominated American retailing, with 400,000 employees and 900 stores, selling millions of products from power tools to refrigerators, credit card services and insurance. At one time, its sales accounted for 2 percent of America's gross national product.
        But signs of Sears's decline were visible during Mr. Wood's tenure. Rising inflation, an economic slowdown, and ultimately, lower-cost and nimbler competitors undermined the company. Mr. Wood blamed the recession, not the company's strategy.
        In the mid-1970's, its insurance business, Allstate, drained the company's profits, while competition from retailers like Montgomery Ward and J. C. Penney, hurt sales. To reverse the slowdown, Mr. Wood hired an outside consultant, McKinsey & Company, a first in the company's century in business. Eventually, Sears would prove powerless against the efficiency of Wal-Mart.
        But even as difficulties loomed, Sears made its mark on the Chicago skyline.
        In 1973, the company opened a headquarters that was to be a symbol of its power; the 110-story tower was then the world's tallest building. Mr. Wood was involved in the planning and construction of the building in downtown Chicago and he signed the final beam.
        The Sears Tower surpassed the twin towers of the World Trade Center in Manhattan, which were completed in 1971 and 1972. Sears moved out of the building in 1995.
        Arthur MacDougall Wood was born Jan. 21, 1913, in Chicago, and grew up in Highland Park, Ill., where he attended high school before spending two years at the Los Alamos Ranch School, an exclusive school for boys in New Mexico.
        He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University and received a law degree from Harvard in 1937.
        After graduation, he joined the law firm of Bell, Boyd & Marshall in Chicago. In 1941, he joined the Army Air Corps, serving as a lieutenant colonel, and was part of a group planning the strategic bombing of Germany.
        In 1946, both Mr. Wood and his brother, Robert, joined Sears at the behest of General Robert E. Wood, the company's chairman and a family friend, though not a relative. Mr. Wood's first task was to set up the legal department.
        Besides his son, he is survived by a daughter, Pauline Wood Egan, and seven grandchildren. His wife, Pauline Palmer Wood, died in 1984.
      