
        Hilton Ruiz, a versatile and prolific pianist equally at home in the worlds of modern jazz and Latin music, died yesterday in New Orleans. He was 54 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        His death was announced by his agent, Joel Chriss. Mr. Ruiz had been hospitalized in a coma since May 19, when he was found unconscious on Bourbon Street in New Orleans with severe head injuries. The police said that he had injured himself in a fall.
        He had been in New Orleans since May 18 to promote a CD benefiting victims of Hurricane Katrina.
        Mr. Ruiz spent his career shuttling between two separate if not entirely dissimilar musical words. He spun dazzling, harmonically sophisticated improvisations in the bands of Rahsaan Roland Kirk and Betty Carter, in groups he led, and occasionally as a solo pianist. He also provided rhythmically insistent support in the ensembles of Tito Puente and Mongo Santamaria.
        He could probably have had a concert career if he had chosen that path. Born in New York to Puerto Rican parents, he was a classical piano prodigy and made his debut at Carnegie Recital Hall when he was 8. But jazz and Afro-Cuban music won his heart.
        Mr. Ruiz began working with Latin bands in the New York area while still in high school, and around the same time he also began studying jazz piano with various teachers, most notably the pianist and composer Mary Lou Williams.
        ''She showed me a lot about what not to do,'' he once said of Williams. ''When I did something wrong, she'd say, 'No, that's not right, that's corny, that's not happening. Do it like this. Move over. Let me show you how it's done.' ''
        He was barely out of his teens when he first attracted national attention in 1973 as a sideman with the saxophonist and flutist Rahsaan Roland Kirk. With his striking technique and his grasp of a wide variety of jazz styles, Mr. Ruiz was a good match for the famously flamboyant and eclectic Kirk, whose repertory ranged from boogie-woogie to the avant-garde.
        ''All the music I enjoyed was part of the Rahsaan experience,'' he later recalled. ''We had to play all these musical flavors every night. I had to research.''
        After four years with Kirk, Mr. Ruiz became an active freelance sideman, working with Clark Terry, Chico Freeman, Abbey Lincoln and many others. He also performed regularly in New York as the leader of a trio and in duos with various bassists. During the last 20 years he worked primarily as a leader and recorded for Novus, Candid and several other labels.
        He had been scheduled to perform at Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, part of the Jazz at Lincoln Center complex in New York, at a Latin jazz festival in July.  Mr. Ruiz was the co-author of the three-volume guide ''Jazz and How to Play It'' and contributed to the soundtracks of the films ''Crimes and Misdemeanors'' and ''American Beauty.''
        Survivors include his former wife and his daughter, both named Aida, of Teaneck.
      