
        Wes Hill, who, like the other storied river men in his family, mastered the currents and crevices of the Niagara River and its falls and became an expert at saving lives and recovering bodies, died Monday in Niagara Falls, Ontario. He was 76.
        His wife, Sarah, said that he had suffered an embolism, but that she did not know the exact cause of death -- except that it was reassuringly natural. One of his brothers died going over the falls, and another brother and their father came close.
        Mr. Hill was the last of his clan to live intimately with the river, hunting and fishing and hiking along the spectacularly surging currents. Like the others, he reaped praise and awards for rescuing people who accidentally or deliberately put themselves in danger. And like them, he made extra income from undertakers by retrieving bodies ($50 to $75).
        ''You might attach the word 'legendary' to them,'' Sherman Zavitz, city historian of Niagara Falls, said in an interview with The New York Times in 2003. ''That word gets overused, but in this case it's appropriate. Their exploits are the stuff of legends and in many ways rather unique, especially the rescue aspect.''
        But Mr. Hill's four children are not interested in following the family trade, though he taught some tricks and tactics to the local police.
        The Hill saga began with William Hill, known as Red, who came back from World War I and began doing odd jobs, a bit of bootlegging and plucking bodies from the river. When he rescued two men from a scow perched on a rock just above the falls, he earned a lifesaving medal and a boost in reputation.
        A larger brush with destiny came in 1930, when Red contracted to haul George L. Stathakis out of the water after he plunged over the falls in a barrel. Mr. Stathakis died, but the 105-year-old turtle accompanying him survived.
        Red caught the daredevil bug himself, and rode barrels through the rapids and whirlpools three times before dying of a heart attack in 1942. Red Jr. and his brother Major Lloyd Hill followed boldly in their father's footsteps, competing against each other in ever crazier stunts.
        On Aug. 5, 1951, Red Jr., who had shot the rapids three times, upped the ante. He vowed to honor his father's memory by going over the big falls in a contraption made of 14 inner tubes that he called the Thing.
        Wes, the youngest of the four Hill boys, was sure his brother would die and left town to go fishing. He told their mother, Beatrice, that she would never again see Red Jr., who died in front of 200,000 spectators (including Wesley, who, it turned out, could not stay away).
        ''I was mad,'' Wes remembered in an interview with NPR in 1993. ''I was mad that he didn't have enough brains to know that the contraption wouldn't work. But after it was all over, I had no feeling at all, really. That was his life. Everybody has to live their own life.''
        A glimpse at an only slightly exaggerated version of the family appeared in a profile of Charles Hill, a cousin of Red Sr., in The Times in 1937. Charles lived in a cave close by thundering Horseshoe Falls with Tiny, his fox terrier, who never left the cave because the climb was too steep.
        Beatrice Hill was understandably less enamored of the Niagara River, according to Pierre Berton. In his 1992 book, ''Niagara: A History of the Falls,'' she is quoted saying: ''I hate the river. I'm afraid of it. I begged my children to stay away from it.''
        Wes could not help loving it. He grew up hunting, fishing and sustaining a tradition begun by his grandfather: advising the authorities where the current would throw a body up.
        Born in Niagara Falls on May 14, 1930, Wesley Hill worked at factory jobs, making wire screens in one and rail ties in another. Later, he worked for the Niagara Parks Commission police.
        But this Mr. Hill, who liked to call bingo games and square-dance, disdained dangerous stunts. His wife summarized his thinking: ''Why would you endanger your life?''
        The Times quoted him estimating that he had retrieved 350 to 400 bodies from the river. He told The Niagara Falls Review, the local paper, that his payments just covered the cost of his ropes.
        Mr. Hill worked as a consultant on films, including ''The Mighty Niagara,'' ''Superman II,'' ''Trapped in Paradise,'' ''Canadian Bacon,'' ''The Long Kiss Goodnight,'' ''Blues Brothers 2000'' and ''Niagara: Miracles, Myths and Magic.''
        In an effort to film the sensation of tumbling over the falls, he sent eight small aluminum barrels equipped with cameras over Horseshoe Falls. Each emerged in working order.
        In 2003, when a man wearing only a parka went over the falls and lived, Mr. Hill used his camera experiment to explain why he had always figured somebody might succeed in doing this. (A 7-year-old boy in only a lifejacket survived such a plunge in 1960 after a boat capsized.)
        Still, Mr. Hill emphasized that it was luck that saved the daredevil. ''He could do that 100 times, and every time he'd get killed,'' he said.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hill is survived by his sons, Douglas, Daniel and David; his daughter, Diane; and six grandchildren, all of Niagara Falls.
        His answer to why people persist in going over the falls in barrels came down to topography. ''If there were a mountain here, there would be mountain climbers,'' he said.
      