
        Charles H. Older, a no-nonsense judge who presided over the bizarre and boisterous circus that was the trial of Charles Manson and his followers, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of a fall at his home in West Los Angeles, said Edward Cazier, a friend and former law partner.
        Judge Older, a World War II fighter ace, found himself the ringmaster of a 22-week trial that began on July 24, 1970, and seized the attention of the world as the testimony lurched from LSD to unspeakable sex and even more unspeakable violence to the title of the Beatles' ''Helter Skelter,'' which was scrawled on the refrigerator at the murder site.
        In January 1971, followers of Mr. Manson, who testified that they simultaneously regarded him as God and Satan, were convicted of first-degree murder for stabbing and shooting the actress Sharon Tate and six other people in August 1969.
        For instigating the violence, Mr. Manson was also convicted of first-degree murder. All were sentenced to life.
        The trial spun from dramatic to ridiculous to frightening, with Mr. Manson carving an ''X'' on his forehead and altering it over time until it became a swastika. Other defendants, all young women, copied him. At times, they chanted rhythmically, occasionally in Latin.
        Several times, Judge Older banished the defendants from the courtroom for raucous behavior. He set up a monitor system so they could watch from nearby cells.
        On Oct. 5, 1970, Mr. Manson jumped headfirst from the defense table toward the judge's bench. After a husky deputy sheriff threw himself across the table to subdue him, Mr. Manson snarled, ''In the name of Christian justice, someone should cut your head off.''
        Throughout the trial, Judge Older spoke so softly that people strained to hear him. His rulings were usually a simple ''sustained'' or ''denied.'' Sessions began at the appointed hour, on the dot.
        One of the many difficult calls the judge made occurred when Mr. Manson held up a newspaper headline saying ''Manson Guilty, Nixon Declares.'' Judge Older ruled that the jury's impartiality had not been impaired.
        Though the trial in the Tate-LaBianca murders was the trial of his career, Judge Older also held the gavel in other complex proceedings. In 1981, he ruled that Synanon, which began as a drug rehabilitation program and became an alternative community, could be considered a religion. That meant that a couple who said Synanon had ordered them to have an abortion could not sue Synanon.
        The judge said his acceptance of Synanon as a religion was a ''close'' call. But having accepted that definition, he said the court had no jurisdiction over a religious association.
        Charles Herman Older was born on Sept. 29, 1917, in Hanford, Calif. He graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, where he majored in political science.
        He became a pilot in the Marine Corps Reserve, but resigned his commission as a second lieutenant to join the Flying Tigers, a group of American pilots recruited by Col. Claire Chennault to help the Chinese fight the Japanese in China and Burma. Mr. Older was assigned to the Tigers' 3rd Pursuit Squadron, known as Hell's Angels. He was credited with downing 10 1/4 enemy planes, making him a double ace.
        He then joined the Army Air Forces and shot down eight more enemy planes. He also led the first strike on Japanese forces in Shanghai, in which United States planes destroyed 72 Japanese aircraft with no American losses.
        After the war, Mr. Older earned a law degree from the University of Southern California and practiced law until Gov. Ronald Reagan named him to Los Angeles Superior Court in 1967.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Catherine Ellen Day, and three daughters, Catherine Lapat of Port Townsend, Wash; Nancy Yarbrough of Henderson, Nev.; and Victoria Currie of San Diego.
        Even Judge Older's equanimity in court drew the wrath of Mr. Manson, who, in a note smuggled out of jail, criticized the judge's lenient treatment of a prosecutor whom he had admonished. ''If I were the judge, and he lost his head,'' Mr. Manson wrote of the prosecutor, ''I wouldn't give it back to him.''
        Correction:  June 23, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about Charles H. Older, the judge at the trial of Charles Manson and his followers, misstated their original sentences. They were sentenced to death, not life in prison. (Their sentences were commuted in February 1972 when the death penalty was declared unconstitutional in California.)
      