
        William A. Shurcliff, a physicist who helped develop the atomic bomb and went on to play an outspoken role in defeating plans for a supersonic passenger plane in the 1960's and the Star Wars antimissile defense system in the 80's, died June 20 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said a granddaughter, Elizabeth Shurcliff.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Shurcliff was working on a new method of insulating houses against summer heat, Ms. Shurcliff said. He had written a dozen books on solar power.
        Dr. Shurcliff, who earned a B.A. from Harvard in 1930 and a Ph.D. in 1934, was called to Washington in 1942 to work as a senior technical aide for the Manhattan Project and was later promoted to head of the Technical Intelligence Group. He was later co-editor of The Smythe Report, the official history of the development of the bomb.
        In July 1946, as a government historian, Dr. Shurcliff witnessed the detonation of two 23-kiloton bombs at Bikini Atoll in the South Pacific.
        ''He said that even from 15 miles away, it was so blindingly bright that they were advised to cover their eyes, and even with his eyes covered, it was just blinding,'' his son Arthur said about the first blast. It was followed by an underwater detonation and a mushroom cloud.
        ''I think after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, he was almost horrified at what he had helped do,'' Arthur Shurcliff said. ''In a sense, the rest of his life was a sort of atonement.''
        Dr. Shurcliff returned to Cambridge to head an optics laboratory at the Polaroid Corporation, a company run by his classmate Edwin H. Land, and his inventions led to about 20 patents, Arthur Shurcliff said.
        In 1967, while working as the senior research associate at the Cambridge Electron Accelerator, a laboratory run by Harvard and M.I.T., Dr. Shurcliff founded a group called the Citizens' League Against the Sonic Boom and began a nationwide campaign against the American effort to build a supersonic transport plane to match the British-French Concorde. ''We all believe in progress,'' he told The Harvard Crimson, ''but some things just aren't progress.''
        He published a book, ''SST and Sonic Boom Handbook,'' and predicted that the plane would be obsolete before it could be built. Congress ultimately agreed.
        In 1986, he took on the Strategic Defense Initiative, a missile-based system of defense proposed by President Ronald Reagan that came to be known as Star Wars. He surveyed members of the National Academy of Sciences on whether they thought that interception of ballistic missiles could keep the country safe.
        In 1938, he surveyed fellow physicists to determine if they favored barring German scientists from American laboratories, to convey disapproval of the Nazi government.
        In his later years, Dr. Shurcliff became an expert on solar heating, publishing books including ''Solar Heating: One Hundred Daring Schemes Tried and Untried,'' ''Air-to-Air Heat Exchangers for Houses'' and ''Thermal Shutters and Shades: Over 100 Schemes for Reducing Heat Loss Through Windows.'' In 1978, he published a survey of 120 solar-heated buildings in North America.
        Besides his son Arthur, of Cambridge, and his granddaughter Elizabeth, of Montreal, Dr. Shurcliff is survived by his wife of 65 years, Joan Hopkinson Shurcliff; another son, Charles, of Ipswich, Mass., and a second grandchild, Margaret of Twin Oaks, Va.
        An active commentator on technology trends, Dr. Shurcliff, in a July 2002 letter to The New York Times, responded to an article about three-dimensional systems for televisions and computers.
        ''I was at the center of the technology of the 1950's 3-D craze,'' he recalled of his years at Polaroid. In theaters, he wrote, ''it turned out that the audience loved the feeling of being right in the room with the action,'' if the movie was pleasant.
        But he added: ''Especially for TV viewing, 3-D may have little merit and may even spoil the atmosphere. Your home is not a place for strangers, including dislikable and vicious ones, to seemingly enter and take over.''
      