
        Charles J. Haughey, a three-time Irish prime minister who helped pave the way for Ireland's economic boom of the 1990's but whose own lavish accumulation of wealth tarnished his reputation and was partly responsible for driving him into retirement, died yesterday. He was 80.
        His death, at his estate in Kinsealy, north of Dublin, was announced by Prime Minister Bertie Ahern. No cause was given, though Mr. Haughey was known to have suffered from prostate cancer since 1995. The government said he would be given a state funeral with full military honors on Friday.
        Mr. Haughey (pronounced HAW-hee) was a dominating political figure in Ireland, holding various ministerial posts before rising to prime minister. He served terms from 1979 to 1981, March to December 1982, and 1987 to 1992.
        By the time he stepped down, Ireland seemed to be divided between those who called him their champion and those who despised him as a rascal bent on enriching himself.
        His supporters, voting for his populist Fianna Fail party, saw him as a leader who had helped revive a sick national economy by cutting government spending and luring hundreds of foreign companies, moves that generated thousands of jobs and helped fuel the surging prosperity of the 1990's known as the Celtic Tiger.
        Mr. Haughey gained even more public favor with popular measures that cost the treasury little. He exempted writers, artists and composers from income taxes, which were among the highest in Europe. He gave the elderly free passes for trains and buses. He eliminated the tax on purchases of books.
        He also fostered major changes in Irish law. One stipulated that wives had the first right to inherit their husbands' estates. Irish men had traditionally willed their property to the Catholic Church or to their eldest sons.
        In 1979, as health minister, Mr. Haughey successfully fought to make condoms more available in a country where they could be sold only by a doctor's prescription. He also established a nongovernmental council devoted to women's rights.
        Mr. Haughey, a son of embattled republicans from the Catholic ghettos of Northern Ireland, presented himself to Irish voters as a staunch opponent of British sovereignty there. In 1970, when he was finance minister, he withstood government charges that he had approved a shipment of guns for the Irish Republican Army in Northern Ireland.
        But as prime minister, unfazed by his anti-British reputation, he negotiated with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on the future of Northern Ireland and supported the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985, which gave Dublin a consultative role in Ulster. At the time of his resignation in February 1992, he had opened talks with the British government of John Major that led to a new peace effort in the north.
        But Mr. Haughey's critics said he was a faker and a fast-talker who took millions in gifts and debt write-offs from businesses and banks, making himself one of the richest men in Ireland despite his modest public salaries.
        In the late 1990's, two special tribunals found that he had indeed taken millions of dollars, apparently without paying taxes. Mr. Haughey admitted misleading one tribunal when he had declared: ''My work was my lifestyle, and when I was in office, I worked every day all day. There was no room for any sort of extravagant lifestyle.''
        The hearings disclosed, in fact, that rich benefactors had bankrolled a lavish life for more than 20 years. He was working as an accountant and a public servant when he acquired Abbeville House, a Georgian manor on 280 acres in Kinsealy, where he bred thoroughbreds. He also acquired a Victorian house on an island off the west coast, where he sailed his yacht. He drank expensive French wine and wore expensive French suits. Late in life a British columnist reported that she had been his longtime mistress, a disclosure he did not deny.
        Maire Geoghegan-Quinn, who served in one of his cabinets, once said of Mr. Haughey, ''He was a one-off, a unique figure of medieval power, intrigue and complexity, surrounded by mystery and money, and protected by populism and cleverness and the well-timed one-liner.''
        Charles James Haughey was born on Sept. 16, 1925, in Castlebar, County Mayo. His parents had moved there from Northern Ireland, where his father, Sean, had been an officer in the original Irish Republican Army.
        His father died young, and the family struggled to support itself. Graduating first in his class at the Christian Brothers School, Charles went on to University College Dublin, where he qualified as an accountant and lawyer, though he never practiced law.
        After college Mr. Haughey worked as an accountant and began to amass a fortune dealing in real estate. In 1951 he married Maureen Lemass, the daughter of the Fianna Fail leader Sean Lemass, who later became prime minister. In addition to his wife, his survivors include his daughter, Eimear, and his sons Conor, Ciaran and Sean.
        Mr. Lemass was instrumental in getting Mr. Haughey a nomination for Parliament and later urged his appointment as minister of justice.
        But Mr. Haughey's career was set back in 1970 when, as finance minister, he was charged with being involved in a plot to obtain weapons from Europe and smuggle them across the border to the I.R.A. His lawyers argued successfully that the minister of defense had approved the shipment. On his acquittal, Mr. Haughey and three other defendants were carried from the courtroom on the shoulders of cheering spectators.
        But the gun-running scandal had damaged the government of Prime Minister John Lynch, who dismissed Mr. Haughey.
        Undeterred, he began traveling the country making speeches, hailed by some as a republican martyr, and in 1973 he won re-election to Parliament. He went on to serve as minister for health and social welfare and, in 1979, completed an extraordinary comeback when Fianna Fail selected him as head of the party and thus prime minister, or taoiseach (pronounced TEE-shuck, meaning ''leader'' in Gaelic).
        As prime minister, Mr. Haughey condemned I.R.A. violence and argued for ''the peaceful unification of the people of Ireland'' in talks with Mrs. Thatcher, whom he admired for her combativeness.
        Mr. Haughey's financial troubles began in 1998, when a former chief executive of the nation's largest department store chain, Dunnes Stores, disclosed in court that he had given Mr. Haughey about $2 million in the late 1980's. Mr. Haughey had directed his friends to spread the money among banks in Ireland and overseas, the authorities found.
        There were no restrictions then on the donations an elected official could receive. But much of the money was apparently taxable, and his lawyers were forced to fight government accusations that he had evaded taxes.
        Mr. Haughey was the leader of Fianna Fail when the party lost the presidential election in 1990 to Mary Robinson, who became the first woman to serve as head of state. His party colleagues decided he had become a liability as prime minister and, at their urging, he resigned in February 1992, finally felled by the revival of a 1982 scandal involving government taps on journalists' telephones. Mr. Haughey denied he had known of the taps, but his credibility was fatally damaged.
        The financial scandals dogged Mr. Haughey for another decade, until he reached agreements with the Irish authorities to settle multimillion-dollar tax liabilities.
        Scandal also entered into his personal life in his later years when Terry Keane, an Englishwoman who wrote a gossip column for The Irish Independent, saidin 1999 that she had been his mistress for 27 years. The disclosure stunned the country.
        ''O.K., he was wrong, he did wrong, he is not perfect,'' Ms. Keane said in a television interview in which she discussed the relationship. ''But he has done some very good things. And like everybody else he is a mixture of good and bad.''
        Friends said Ms. Keane's statements left Maureen Haughey in tears, but she stayed with him, publicly silent.
      