
        Ken McIntyre, a star guard who helped propel an underdog St. John's team to the Holiday Festival and National Invitation Tournament championships in 1965 to bring a stirring conclusion to Coach Joe Lapchick's Hall of Fame career, died May 31. He was 63.
        The cause was cancer, his brother Bob, a teammate for two seasons, told The Associated Press.
        Ken McIntyre was the most valuable player in the N.I.T. when the tournament, played entirely at Madison Square Garden, was still prestigious. He scored 1,174 points in three seasons at St. John's. Bob McIntyre, a forward, had 1,349 career points. Another brother, Dennis, played for St. John's in the 1970's.
        In Ken McIntyre's senior season, Lapchick, the longtime coach for St. John's and the Knicks and a former star for the famed Original Celtics, was approaching 65, the university's retirement age. Twice, his players gave him unexpected championships.
        St. John's went into the Holiday Festival championship game on Jan. 2, 1965, a decided underdog against Michigan, the nation's No. 1-ranked team. The Wolverines, featuring Cazzie Russell, had edged Princeton in the semifinals despite a 41-point game by Bill Bradley.
        Michigan led St. John's by 16 points with about nine minutes to play, but St. John's came back for a 75-74 victory. McIntyre, who had been slumping and was benched in the first half, hit four straight baskets in the final moments and played outstanding defense.
        In March, St. John's, having stumbled after the victory over Michigan, came into the N.I.T. unseeded. McIntyre scored 42 points in a victory over Boston College in a first-round game, and, entering the title game against top-seeded Villanova, he had made 42 consecutive free throws, 8 short of the National Collegiate Athletic Association record set by Howard Komives of Bowling Green the previous season.
        On the eve of the Villanova game, McIntyre recalled how he shot as many as 100 free throws a day in practice at the beginning of the season, but said ''I get more nervous in practice if I made 60 or 70 in a row than in a game, when it counts.''
        McIntyre missed his first free-throw attempt against Villanova, but St. John's won, 55-51. McIntyre had 18 points in that game and scored 101 points in four N.I.T. games.
        McIntyre was drafted by the St. Louis Hawks but never played in the National Basketball Association.
        In addition to his brothers, he is survived by his parents, his wife and a son.
        When St. John's came away with the N.I.T. title in Lapchick's final game, the coach was mobbed by fans and cheerleaders.
        ''Never, not once, did he ever say, 'Win this one for old Joe,' '' Ken McIntyre remarked in the locker room. ''He'd say, 'Win it for the school, for the team, for yourselves, and forget about me.' ''
      