
        Michael Riffaterre, an internationally renowned literary theorist and critic who specialized in the study of French literature, died on May 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Riffaterre was university professor emeritus at Columbia, where he had spent his entire academic career.
        Considered this country's leading advocate of French structuralist theory, Mr. Riffaterre was a particular authority on semiotics, the study of the meaning and interpretation of signs and symbols. Throughout his career, he was intimately concerned with literature as text -- that is, as a work of art built from meaningful linguistic symbols.
        His work centered on the ways in which an audience perceives these symbols aesthetically through the often-difficult act of reading. Issues peripheral to the text, like the background or ideology of the author, should have little bearing on its interpretation, he maintained.
        Among his best-known books are ''Semiotics of Poetry'' (Indiana University, 1978), ''Text Production'' (Columbia University, 1983) and ''Fictional Truth'' (Johns Hopkins University, 1990).
        Michel Camille Riffaterre was born on Nov. 20, 1924, in Bourganeuf, in the Limousin region of France. (He Americanized his first name after coming to the United States in the early 1950's.) In World War II, he fought with the French Resistance and later with the French Army.
        After studies at the University of Lyon, he received a master's degree in classics from the Sorbonne in 1947. He earned a Ph.D. in French literature from Columbia in 1955, joining the permanent faculty there the same year. He retired from the university in 2004.
        Twice a Guggenheim fellow, Mr. Riffaterre was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. From 1971 to 2000, he was the general editor of The Romanic Review, a scholarly journal.
        Professor Riffaterre was married several times. He is survived by his wife, Hermine, also a scholar of French literature; their son, Jason, of Manhattan; a daughter from an earlier marriage, Lee Riffaterre, an assistant general counsel of The New York Times, also of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      