
        Dr. Fritz Klein, a psychiatrist and sex researcher who studied bisexuals and their relationships and later helped start a foundation for promoting bisexual culture, died on May 24 at his home in San Diego. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his companion, Tom Reise.
        An author and editor, Dr. Klein wrote several books that explored the experiences of married men and others who maintained heterosexual relationships while having clandestine affairs with men. In 1978, he published ''The Bisexual Option,'' a book that provided a sociological and historical overview of bisexual practices and culture.
        He later helped edit another book, ''Bisexual and Gay Husbands: Their Stories, Their Words,'' published in 2001.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Klein, who had a private psychiatric practice, began developing a scale to measure trends in an individual's sexual orientation.
        The scale, known as the Klein Sexual Orientation Grid, gauges a subject's candid feelings by ranking factors like self-image, fantasies and past sexual behavior along with social and emotional orientation toward either sex.
        Dr. Klein maintained that orientation could be fluid over a lifetime and that men who were active with partners of both sexes had been undercounted by researchers. The Klein Grid has been compared to an earlier pioneering scale for ranking sexual orientation developed by Alfred C. Kinsey in the 1940's.
        Fritz Klein, who was originally named Fred Klein, was born in Vienna. He received a bachelor's degree from Yeshiva University and a master's from Columbia. In 1971, he earned a medical degree from the University of Bern.
        Dr. Klein's advocacy work included organizing conferences for and about bisexuals, and he began forums in San Diego and New York to bring bisexuals together for discussions.
        His psychiatric practice extended to clients with H.I.V. and AIDS. Dr. Klein also helped to found the American Institute of Bisexuality in 1998 and was an editor of The Journal of Bisexuality.
        He practiced in Manhattan before moving to San Diego in the 1980's.
      