
        Donald M. Halperin, a former New York state senator who represented shorefront neighborhoods of Brooklyn for 23 years and then served briefly as Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's housing commissioner, died on Monday in Brooklyn. He was 60.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Brenda Halperin.
        Although a member of the Democratic minority throughout his Senate career, Mr. Halperin was known as a consensus builder who managed to win passage of a variety of laws. In 1970, he wrote a law requiring that developers of new buildings install Braille and audio signals in elevators. He was the author of the 1982 Rapid Transit Noise Code Act, which established safe noise levels for elevated trains. Also in 1982, Mr. Halperin was the author of a law providing grants for programs designed to reduce racial and ethnic conflicts in schools.
        Donald Marc Halperin was born on July 25, 1945, a son of Gladys and Charles Halperin. A lifelong resident of Manhattan Beach, he graduated from Rutgers University in 1967 and Brooklyn Law School in 1970.
        In his last year in law school, as a member of a reform Democratic club in his neighborhood, Mr. Halperin started a long-shot campaign to oust State Senator William Rosenblatt, a Democrat who for 26 years had represented a district including Manhattan Beach, Brighton Beach, Sheepshead Bay and parts of Midwood, Mill Basin and Flatbush. Mr. Halperin was 24 when he won.
        He served in the Senate until October 1993, when Governor Cuomo appointed him commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal. In 15 months in the job, Mr. Halperin successfully lobbied for a law protecting cash-poor elderly homeowners from predatory lenders pressuring them to take out reverse mortgages, which depleted their share of the equity in their homes.
        He was a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Kantor Davidoff Wolfe Mandelker & Kass.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Halperin is survived by a sister, Susan Gorman of Montclair, N.J.; a son, Jeremy, of Manhattan; and a daughter, Rebecca, of Manhattan Beach.
        Ever loyal to his native borough, in the spring of 1985 Mr. Halperin flew to a certain large city in California whose baseball team used to play in Brooklyn, for a reunion of 800 transplanted New Yorkers organized by Louis Zigman, a fellow former member of Boy Scout Troop 114 in Manhattan Beach. At the reunion, Mr. Halperin handed out Spaldeens -- the pink rubber balls that are standard equipment for New York stickball players.
        Of his journey to the city that stole the Dodgers, Mr. Halperin said, ''I retaliated by making a long, boring speech.''
      