
        German Goldenshteyn, a celebrated traditional clarinetist from the former Soviet Union who forged a crucial link to the vibrant klezmer music of the Old World with his arrival in the New World 12 years ago, died on Saturday while fishing on Hempstead Lake on Long Island. He was 71 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Michael Alpert, a prominent klezmer musician, ethnomusicologist and close colleague.
        Mr. Goldenshteyn was a native of Bessarabia, which spans present-day Moldova and Ukraine and over the years has belonged variously to Russia, Romania and the Soviet Union. Arriving in the United States in 1994, he literally carried the region's tradition with him in the form of handwritten notebooks filled with hundreds of klezmer tunes, many previously undocumented.
        Mr. Goldenshteyn, who had meticulously transcribed the tunes over four decades, is believed to have set down nearly a thousand of them. One notebook alone contained 569 melodies. His notebooks form the largest known collection of klezmer manuscripts in existence, Mr. Alpert said in a telephone interview this week.
        The transcriptions, along with the frequent concerts and workshops Mr. Goldenshteyn gave here, have further animated the klezmer revival, which began in North America in the 1970's.
        ''His appearance here in the United States, and his presence in our lives, for all of us in the klezmer and Yiddish and Jewish communities, was one of the most important developments in the past 10 years of the whole klezmer phenomenon,'' Mr. Alpert said. ''His presence breathed new life into this entire repertoire and culture.''
        ''German Goldenshteyn: A Living Tradition,'' a CD featuring Mr. Goldenshteyn, was recently released on the Living Traditions label. A second CD, produced by Mr. Alpert and the noted klezmer trumpeter Frank London, is scheduled for this fall.
        Mr. Goldenshteyn is survived by his wife, Mina; their daughter, Klava Rozentul; and a grandson, all of Brooklyn.
        The youngest of four brothers, German Goldenshteyn was born on Sept. 2, 1934, in the shtetl of Otaci, then in Romania, now in Moldova. (His first name, the Russian version of Herman, is pronounced with a hard ''g.'')
        Through much of World War II, Romania allied itself with the Nazis, and from 1941 to 1943, the Goldenshteyn family was interned in the Romanian ghetto Bershad. German's parents died there of starvation and disease, and he and his brothers sold matches and cigarettes on the street to survive. Not long afterward they were placed in a series of Romanian orphanages.
        In late 1944, after the Soviets occupied Romania, German and two of his brothers were transferred to an orphanage in Odessa. About a year later, the leader of a Soviet military band arrived to test the children for musical ability. He chose 10, including German and a brother, and the two were sent briefly to a Romanian military academy.
        In 1946, German entered a military music school in Odessa, where he studied the clarinet. Graduating three years later, he played with Red Army bands throughout the southwestern Soviet Union before being officially drafted in 1953.
        He finished his army service in 1956 and settled in Mogilev Podolski (now Mohyliw Podilskyj), in Ukraine, across the Dniester River from Otaci. He earned his living as a machinist and also played in a small band, which performed at weddings throughout the region.
        In the Dniester Valley, a web of different peoples converged -- Balkan, East Slavic, Romanian, Ottoman, Jewish and Gypsy. It was a border culture, bearing the hallmarks of all these traditions. These influences fed the music of Mr. Goldenshteyn and his fellow klezmorim. They played Jewish weddings, with their joyous freylachs and horas. They also played non-Jewish weddings, where they might be asked for a Gypsy melody, a polka or a Russian popular song.
        Though Jewish culture was officially suppressed in the postwar Soviet Union, it continued to thrive -- sometimes quietly, sometimes noisily -- in the villages. At weddings, the religious ceremony took place privately, behind drawn curtains. But the secular parts of the celebration, including the exuberant music, poured into the street.
        The klezmorim traveled from village to village, usually by train, arriving in the wee hours. If they were lucky, someone sent a wagon to meet them. If not, they walked. When they reached the village, they might parade from house to house, serenading the occupants awake, as a reminder to come to the wedding. When the festivities were over, they played the guests back home.
        As he traveled, Mr. Goldenshteyn filled his notebook with tunes. ''Basically it's what musicians would call a fake book,'' Mr. Alpert said. ''The primary purpose wasn't to preserve Jewish or Moldavian culture, but mainly so that the band would have more repertoire.''
        After Mr. Goldenshteyn arrived in Brooklyn, musicians treated him as a living treasure. Previously, American klezmorim had to depend on old 78's, along with the occasional immigrant musician, to learn traditional tunes. But none of the earlier immigrants possessed the vast repertory of Mr. Goldenshteyn.
        ''You felt it in his playing, in his presence, in his whole being, that he was a bridge to -- a repository of -- this entire culture,'' Mr. Alpert said. ''He's the closest thing that the klezmer revival has had to a Woody Guthrie or a Leadbelly.''
      