
        Claude Terrail, owner of La Tour d'Argent, a Paris restaurant, died on June 1. He was 88.
        His death was announced yesterday by the restaurant, which did not say where he died.
        Until just a few months ago, the tall, imposing Mr. Terrail, with his flashing smile, impeccable tailoring and signature white carnation, welcomed diplomats, statesmen, screen stars and well-heeled tourists to his ornate restaurant on Quai de Tournelle, as he had for almost six decades. He took over the restaurant from his father, André, in 1947, and maintained its reputation as one of the world's gastronomical temples for most of the ensuing decades.
        Its location, atop its own building on the Seine across from Notre Dame, was unrivaled even in a city of spectacular venues. For special occasions, Mr. Terrail could have the cathedral and much of Île de la Cité, on which it stands, illuminated by floodlights.
        The restaurant was especially known for canard au sang, which is more elegant than its name, bloody duck. Each duck is numbered and each guest is given a card with the number of the duck consumed. The Prince of Wales, the future Edward VII, had duck No. 328 in 1890, and Franklin D. Roosevelt had duck No. 112,151 in 1929.
        The millionth duck was eaten in 2003, the year Claude Terrail's son, also André, took over the restaurant. The 500,000th duck had been launched from the restaurant's roof -- the date is unclear -- with a tag on its leg that entitled the finder to dinner for two.
        The Michelin Guide awarded La Tour d'Argent three stars, its highest accolade, in 1951; the restaurant kept them until 1996, when Michelin downgraded it to two stars. In the 2006 guide, it was down to one star.
        The loss of the first star, Mr. Terrail was quick to point out, did little to hurt the restaurant's popularity. It was then and has apparently remained one of France's most desirable -- and expensive -- attractions.
        About her first visit to La Tour d'Argent, in the early 1950's, Julia Child wrote, ''The restaurant was excellent in every way, except that it was so pricey that every guest was American.'' Claude Terrail once estimated that over the years, half his guests had been Americans. And La Tour d'Argent is still pricey; a menu a few years ago listed a soup for about $50.
        Mr. Terrail was born in 1917 and had planned to be an actor until his father persuaded him to remain with the restaurant, which he had bought in 1912 from Frédéric Delair. It was Delair who had originated the idea of numbering the ducks, which, then as now, come from the Challans region in the west of France.
        André Terrail was married to the daughter of Claudius Burdel, who had owned Café Anglais, a Paris restaurant famous at the end of the 19th century. When Café Anglais closed in 1913, André took its renowned wine cellar across the river to La Tour d'Argent, where it grew to its current size, about 300,000 bottles. Much of the wine was saved from the Germans during World War II by bricking up half the cellar, the elder Mr. Terrail said.
        Claude Terrail was first married to Barbara Warner, a daughter of the Hollywood film producer Jack Warner, and their son, André, survives. His second wife, Tarja, survives him, as does their daughter, Barbara.
        Correction:  June 9, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about Claude Terrail, former proprietor of the Paris restaurant La Tour d'Argent, reversed the marriages that produced his surviving son and daughter and misstated the given name of his daughter. His son, André, is from his second marriage, not his first; his daughter, from his first marriage, is Anne, not Barbara.
      