
        Daniel Steiner, the president of New England Conservatory, died on June 11 in Boston. He was 72.
        The cause was complications of chronic lung disease, according to a statement released by the school.
        Mr. Steiner, a lawyer, was the first nonmusician to head the conservatory. His seven years there capped a career that had included federal posts in President Lyndon B. Johnson's administration and more than 20 years as general counsel of Harvard University; for his last 10 years at Harvard he was also vice president.
        His stated goal for the New England Conservatory was to put the school in a leading position in its field, giving it status comparable to that of Harvard or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in their fields. During his administration, the school attracted a number of leading musicians to its faculty, and as a result student applications increased by 70 percent. Mr. Steiner also inaugurated a $100 million capital campaign; $72 million has been raised.
        Mr. Steiner was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and grew up in New York City. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1954, studied for a year at the University of London and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1958. After a period of private practice with two New York law firms, he joined the Agency for International Development at the State Department in 1965 and later became the general counsel for the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. In 1969 he moved on to Harvard, where he was named the university's first general counsel in 1970.
        Mr. Steiner became an overseer of New England Conservatory in 1994, joined the board of trustees in 1995 and took over as acting president in 1999. He announced in September that he would step down at the end of this year for health reasons. He was awarded an honorary doctorate at the school's commencement in May; he was too ill to attend, but his wife of 46 years, Prudence, read his commencement address in his stead.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Steiner Hayward of Portland, Ore.; a son, Joshua, of New York; and five grandchildren.
      