
        Gen. Johann-Adolf Count von Kielmansegg, a German panzer division officer during World War II who became commander in chief of NATO forces in Central Europe during the height of the cold war, died on May 26 in Bonn. He was 99.
        His son Hanno von Kielmansegg of Celle, Germany, confirmed the death.
        General von Kielmansegg's posting to the highest military command of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in 1966, a time of constant tension with the Soviet Union, was viewed as a benchmark in the rehabilitation of West Germany from the infamy of the Nazi era.
        In the NATO post, General von Kielmansegg took command of Western Europe's first line of defense against the Communist bloc: 500,000 American, British and West German troops posted from Switzerland to the Baltic.
        The general, then 59, seemed an appropriate choice. He had been close to the group of German officers who unsuccessfully tried to assassinate Hitler in 1944. He had insisted that Germany's postwar military be subject to civilian control. He had rebuked revisionist claims that the Holocaust was an act of war.
        General von Kielmansegg, scion of a long line of landowners, scholars, Lutheran prelates and soldiers, was born on Dec. 30, 1906. He was 20 when he entered officer training. As a lieutenant, he first served in the cavalry, as had his father.
        By the start of World War II, he was commander of a panzer, or armored, division. In 1940, he took part in the German invasion of France, sweeping around the Maginot line's obsolete fortifications in eastern France and rushing to the English Channel. After fighting on the Russian front, he joined the General Staff in Berlin.
        By then he was a friend of Col. Claus von Stauffenberg, leader of the officers' plot to kill Hitler. The plan was to detonate a bomb in a briefcase placed under a conference table near Hitler's seat. The attempt, on July 20, 1944, failed when a Hitler aide moved the briefcase. The bomb went off, but Hitler was only superficially wounded.
        General von Kielmansegg, then a colonel, was jailed by the Gestapo and kept in handcuffs for two months before being released for lack of evidence. In 1965, he told a New York Times reporter that he had been aware of the plot but not involved in its planning. ''The plotters set a good example to the army,'' he said, ''because these men put their lives on the line against the dictator.''
        Restored to tank duty, he fought the American Army in western Germany, escaping after his unit was defeated but later surrendering to American forces near Berlin.
        After the war, Count von Kielmansegg worked for a German publishing company. But in 1950 he was summoned by Theo Blank, Bonn's first postwar defense minister, to help draft a plan to resurrect the German Army. General von Kielmansegg, like other high-ranking officers, feared that the officer corps could again become a state within a state; they insisted on civilian control. ''What you want is a democratic-thinking army,'' he said.
        From 1955 to 1958, the general served as West Germany's military representative to NATO. And on June 28, 1966, he became commander of NATO forces in Central Europe, given the post after President Charles de Gaulle of France withdrew French forces from the alliance. The choice fell to Bonn because it had contributed the largest number of troops in the sector.
        Three years earlier, respect for General von Kielmansegg was bolstered when he condemned the notion of a general amnesty for Nazi war criminals, as a professor at Hamburg University had proposed in a widely publicized article. The professor, Peter R. Hofstatter, wrote: ''Hitler and the National Socialist state had declared a quasi-state of war on the Jews. The killings were executed by men in uniforms of a nation that was in a state of war.'' The article prompted large protests. General von Kielmansegg declared the professor's ideas ''not reconcilable with the honor of a soldier.''
        Besides his son Hanno, he is survived by another son, Peter of Heidelberg; two daughters, Levine Lehnoff of Bonn and Ulrike Holle of Essen; 12 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. His wife of 67 years, Baroness Mechthild Dinklage, died in 2000.
      