
        Bill Lamb, a key member of the team that founded New York's public television station Channel 13 and the station's director of production for programs that included ''Nature'' and ''Great Performances,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 76.
        The cause was complications after a stroke, said Marcie Setlow, Mr. Lamb's companion.
        In 1962, when a group of philanthropists and business leaders took over what had been a commercial station showing mostly cartoons and westerns, Mr. Lamb was a member of a small team of executives recruited to transform it into a nonprofit educational channel. Until 1972, he was a senior vice president, a member of the board and the station's director of production, responsible for bringing together the artistic and business sides.
        From 1975 to 1981, Mr. Lamb played a similar role as vice president of production and business affairs and then chief operating officer at KCET, the public television station in Los Angeles, where he oversaw the production of programs including ''Cosmos'' with Carl Sagan and ''The Cousteau Odyssey.''
        ''Bill was an exceedingly important figure in the formative years of what we now know as public broadcasting,'' said John Jay Iselin, the president of Channel 13 from 1972 to 1987. ''He helped guide the critical early years of Channel 13. He put the money together and helped direct it toward fruitful productions.''
        After Mr. Lamb moved to KCET, Mr. Iselin said, ''he certainly nurtured the connections between the two stations and, more importantly, the workings of the entire national system.''
        In 1981, Mr. Lamb -- who had homes in Manhattan and in Santa Cruz, Calif. -- rejoined Channel 13 with the title of senior vice president in charge of national and international production. Under his supervision, the station produced shows like ''The Brain,'' segments for ''American Playhouse'' and Abba Eban's ''Heritage: Civilization and the Jews,'' for which he shared a Peabody Award in 1984.
        William Joseph Lamb was born in Manhattan on Oct. 29, 1929. His father, Vincent Lamb, had been an announcer in the early days of radio. He graduated from Hofstra College (now Hofstra University) and earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard.
        His marriage to Marylou Lamb of Santa Cruz ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. Setlow, his survivors include a daughter, Diane Tobey-Harding of Lancaster, Calif.; two sons, William, of Santa Cruz and Matthew, of Nashville; a sister, Rosemarie Collins of Chicago; and four granddaughters.
      