
        Mike Quarry, a leading light-heavyweight boxer of the 1970's and a younger brother of the heavyweight contender Jerry Quarry, died Sunday in La Habra, Calif. He was 55.
        The cause was boxing-induced dementia, his sister Wilma Pearson told The Associated Press. Jerry Quarry, who had also been afflicted with brain damage from repeated blows to the head, died in 1999 at age 53.
        On the night of June 27, 1972, the boxing doubleheader billed by Muhammad Ali as the Soul Brothers vs. the Quarry Brothers -- Jerry was sometimes called the Great White Hope -- filled the Convention Center at Las Vegas.
        It was the marquee moment for Mike Quarry, who challenged Bob Foster for his light-heavyweight title before the heavyweight nontitle bout between Jerry Quarry and Ali. Mike Quarry was undefeated in 36 fights, but he was knocked out by Foster's left hook in the fourth round. Jerry Quarry was knocked out by Ali in the seventh round.
        Mike Quarry was overshadowed by Jerry, but he had a formidable career. Known as a counterpuncher more than a slugger, he won 63 bouts (17 by knockouts), lost 13 and fought to 6 draws, fighting professionally from 1969 to 1982.
        By the late 1970's, the end of his boxing days seemed near. When he fought Mike Rossman on May 11, 1977, at Madison Square Garden -- their third matchup -- he sustained a deep cut around his right eye in the opening round. He could not see out of the eye and was taking a beating when his brother Jerry, working in his corner, stopped the fight after the sixth round.
        Mike Quarry was sobbing afterward, his chances of contending again for a light-heavyweight title seemingly at an end. ''I'm finished for life,'' he said in his dressing room.
        Jerry Quarry said: ''He's finished, all right. I'll never let him fight again. Not if I can help it.''
        But Mike Quarry returned to the ring the next January. He fought nine times after that bout with Rossman and was knocked out three times.
        Quarry, a native of Bakersfield, Calif., put on boxing gloves at age 8 and was fighting in the amateur ranks in 1968 while a junior in high school. Jerry was a headliner and their father, Jack, had been an amateur boxer.
        ''I've never thought about being anything else but a fighter,'' Mike told The Los Angeles Times then. ''With our family, you just got in on the track and followed -- or were pulled along.''
        After about two dozen amateur bouts, Mike Quarry turned pro.
        In addition to his sister Wilma Pearson, he is survived by his wife, Ellen; his mother, Arwanda; his sisters Diana and Janet; and his brother Bobby, who also boxed professionally, The Associated Press said.
        Long after his career ended, Quarry said that the Foster bout should have been his last.
        ''I had kind of a death wish,'' he told The A.P. in 1995. ''Looking back, I know I should have quit after that fight. That's when my heart went out of boxing.''
      