
        Eric Rofes, an educator, author and organizer whose iconoclastic writings on gay concerns preceded the AIDS epidemic and who then helped define its stages, died on Monday in Provincetown, Mass. He was 51.
        The cause was not determined, said Richard Burns, executive director of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Community Center in New York.
        Dr. Rofes (pronounced ROE-fuss) founded or led gay organizations in Boston, Los Angeles and San Francisco and was a principal organizer of three national meetings on gay and lesbian issues. He wrote or edited 12 books, some of which provoked sharp debate.
        Dr. Rofes became a leading exponent of the view that the AIDS emergency had passed and that gay men should cast aside the crisis mentality of the 1980's. What he called his ''reconceptualization of AIDS'' included not only tolerance for promiscuous gay sex, but also cautious approval.
        ''We value the enactment of our desires and will not always give them up in a grand gesture of sacrifice to the AIDS epidemic,'' he wrote in his book ''Dry Bones Breathe: Gay Men Creating Post-AIDS Identities and Cultures'' (1998).
        He defended unprotected sex as, at least, unavoidable.
        Larry Kramer, Gabriel Rotello, Michelangelo Signorile and other prominent gay writers criticized such views as dangerously irresponsible, even with a decline in AIDS cases.
        Dr. Rofes's outspokenness extended to comparing gay men in the time of AIDS to survivors of Nazi death camps. He wrote what may have been the first book on gay people and suicide, and he strongly criticized AIDS service organizations and anti-AIDS activists for what he saw as dogmatism and fostering a culture of terror.
        When testifying to the National Commission on AIDS in San Francisco in 1991, he wore leather chaps, vest and gloves to suggest that sexual expression took many forms.
        Eric Edward Rofes was born on Aug. 31, 1954, in Brooklyn. He grew up in Commack on Long Island. Dr. Rofes graduated from Harvard in 1976.
        In the 70's, he was one of the so-called Boston Mafia who founded the Gay Community News and the Boston Lesbian and Gay Political Alliance. In an article he wrote last year for White Crane, a quarterly intended for gay men, he told of his joy in joining the emerging gay culture.
        ''Gay was good,'' he wrote. ''Gay was very good. Gay was excellent.''
        In that period, he taught sixth grade in public school until he was fired for being openly gay. He then taught for five years at the Fayerweather Street School in Cambridge, Mass. He and his students published three books on young adults' perspectives, including ''The Kids' Book of Divorce: By, for and About Kids'' (1981).
        In 1985, he was hired as executive director of the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center. After moving to San Francisco in 1989, he headed the Shanti Project, an AIDS service group.
        Dr. Rofes received his master's from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1995 and his doctorate in 1998. He had taught at Humboldt State University in Arcata, Calif., since 1999.
        His research subjects included charter schools and schoolyard bullies, and he consistently used his own experience and research to document the changes in gay culture from the time before AIDS to the disease's epidemic proportions to what is happening now.
        ''Dr. Rofes's contribution is unique in the continuity it provides with the political movements of the late 1970's, before the derailment that occurred in the early 1980's as a result of AIDS,'' The Gay Community News wrote in 1996.
        Dr. Rofes brought detailed descriptions of his own experiences, including explicitly sexual ones, to his work, as well as stark emotions.
        The Harvard Gay and Lesbian Review, in reviewing ''Dry Bones'' in 1999, suggested that it ''is at root not about AIDS at all, but about what AIDS took away from him and his generation, what it left him with, and what he's doing with his anger about the theft.''
        Surviving are his partner of 16 years, Crispin Hollings of San Francisco; a brother, Peter, of Milwaukee; and a sister, Paula Casey-Rofes.
        Correction:  June 30, 2006, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Eric Rofes, a gay activist and author, rendered the surname of a survivor incorrectly and misstated her relationship to Mr. Rofes. Paula Rofes-Casey -- not Casey-Rofes -- of Boynton Beach, Fla., is his mother, not his sister.
      