
        Dr. Ronald E. Cranford, a neurologist, bioethicist and brain injury expert who helped establish clearer standards to determine when a patient is in a deep coma or a vegetative state, died Wednesday in Minneapolis. He was 65.
        The cause was complications of kidney cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Cranford, an advocate for patients' rights and especially the right of terminally ill patients to end their lives, was interested in the moral quandaries brought about by advances in medical technology.
        He participated in several of the most contentious brain-injury cases in recent history, including that of Terri Schiavo. He examined Ms. Schiavo in 2002, before her case became the center of a national debate over the extent of her brain injuries and her husband's request to withdraw life support.
        A professor of neurology at the University of Minnesota, Dr. Cranford reviewed Ms. Schiavo's brain scan and concluded that she was in a permanent vegetative state and was not likely to recover.
        Dr. Joseph J. Fins, a professor of medicine and the chief of the division of medical ethics at Cornell, said Dr. Cranford had strongly opposed the ''creeping in of ideological factors in the Schiavo case, factors which distorted the scientific reality.''
        Dr. Fins further cited Dr. Cranford's contribution in preparing a more precise description of comas and the vegetative state, the condition in which a patient's eyes remain open, without evidence of awareness of others, self or the surrounding environment, and yet having sleep-wake cycles.
        In 1994, the description, ''Medical Aspects of the Persistent Vegetative State,'' was published in two parts in The New England Journal of Medicine and became ''the definitive statement in the field,'' Dr. Fins said.
        Dr. Cranford played a similar role in the case of Nancy Cruzan, a woman injured in an automobile accident in 1983 and left in a coma. Her family's request to remove a feeding tube was denied until the United States Supreme Court ruled in June 1990 that a patient whose wishes were clearly known had a constitutional right to discontinue life-sustaining treatment. The tube was removed in December, and Ms. Cruzan died shortly afterward.
        Arthur L. Caplan, chairman of the department of medical ethics at the University of Pennsylvania, said Dr. Cranford was ''in the trenches on the key cases, the landmark cases.''
        Dr. Caplan added: ''When families locked horns with hospitals, he squared off with state and federal officials for their rights. He was a defender of free choice and families' wishes, but thought it was pointless and futile -- and not a good use of society's resources -- to sustain a person who would not recover.''
        Earlier, in the 1980's, Dr. Cranford lobbied for the formation of ethics committees within hospitals to consider questions raised by ever more effective life-support systems. Once unusual, ethics committees have since become common in hospitals nationwide.
        ''Right now,'' he told The New York Times in 1984, ''we are beginning to realize that our wonderful medical advances enable us to prolong the dying process. The first question is, Should we? And then come all the others: Who lives? Who dies? How do you decide? When do you decide? Who decides?''
        Ronald Eugene Cranford was born in Peoria, Ill. He earned a bachelor's degree in biology and his medical degree from the University of Illinois.
        He was named an assistant professor of neurology at Minnesota in 1971 and became a full professor in 1993. Dr. Cranford also practiced at the Hennepin County Medical Center, where he was a senior physician in neurology.
        From 1987 to 1988, he was president of the American Society of Law, Medicine and Ethics. He was a former president of the Minnesota Society of Neurological Sciences.
        Dr. Cranford's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 19 years, Candy. The couple lived in Bloomington, Minn.
        He is also survived by two daughters, Kristin Cranford of Long Beach, Calif., and Robyn Moder of Beverly Hills, Calif.; a son, Craig Losure of Glencoe, Minn.; a brother, Tom Cranford of Peoria; a close friend, Michael Don Carlos of San Francisco; and two grandchildren.
      