
        Edward Aldwell, a pianist and scholar who was a major exponent of Bach's keyboard works and the co-author of a standard music theory textbook, died on Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y., of injuries suffered in an accident near his country house in Kerhonkson, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        His lawyer, Mark L. Carson-Selman, who announced the death, said Mr. Aldwell was injured on May 7 when he was driving an all-terrain vehicle for the first time and it overturned while going up a steep hill.
        Mr. Aldwell taught theory and analysis for more than three decades at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia and the Mannes College of Music in New York, where he was also on the piano faculty. He was an expert on Schenkerian analysis, a method that delves into a work's underlying structures. With Carl Schachter, he wrote ''Harmony and Voice Leading,'' first published in 1979 and now in its third edition.
        But he ranged far outside the confines of scholarship. He performed often and had a devoted following, particularly among Bach lovers and fellow pianists. He recorded both books of Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier'' for Nonesuch Records and the ''Goldberg'' Variations for the Biddulph label.
        Writing in The New York Times, Bernard Holland said of an Aldwell performance: ''One felt not just an understanding of Bach's complex workmanship but a passionate, communicative love for it. Intellectual control and analytical thought were everywhere -- in the dynamic balance between different voices, in the definition of where phrases began and ended, in the thoughtful application of legato and staccato to explain their inner shapes.''
        Mr. Aldwell is survived by his wife, Jean Ann; a daughter, Elisabeth Aldwell of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
        Edward Aldwell was born on Jan. 30, 1938, in Portland, Ore. He studied at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music and received advanced degrees from the Juilliard School, where his teacher was Adele Marcus.
        At the piano, Mr. Aldwell sat close to the keyboard, his elbows back, forcing the weight to come from his wrists and hands. Robert Fitzpatrick, the dean of the Curtis Institute, said he had an almost monklike appearance. Indeed, Mr. Fitzpatrick said, ''Many people talked about his concerts as kind of a religious experience.''
      