
        Jesse Simons, a noted labor arbitrator who four decades ago helped arrange the system of collective bargaining between New York City and its employees that remains in use today, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88.
        The cause was heart failure, said Karen Kushner, a longtime friend.
        In 1965, after a 28-day strike by city welfare workers and a 34-day strike by ferry workers, Mayor Robert F. Wagner convened a committee to create an independent agency that would oversee municipal labor relations. Mr. Simons, then the director of the American Arbitration Association's Labor Management Institute, was brought in to advise.
        Partly as a result of his work, the New York City Collective Bargaining Law was passed in 1967, during the mayoralty of John V. Lindsay. The law led to the creation that year of the New York City Office of Collective Bargaining, an independent city agency that has the power to mediate and arbitrate contract disputes between the city and about 240,000 of its roughly 300,000 employees.
        Mr. Simons also arbitrated a range of labor disputes in various industries.
        Jesse Simons was born on Nov. 5, 1917, in New Haven. He attended the University of Minnesota, the University of Washington and New York University, but did not earn a degree. His interest in unionism had its roots in his ardent devotion to Trotskyist politics during the 1930's and 40's, Ms. Kushner and others said.
        In the late 30's and early 40's, Mr. Simons had a variety of jobs -- machinist, shipyard coppersmith, linotype operator -- and was an official in several unions.
        From 1944 to 1946, he served in the Army Air Forces and later was the assistant to the political director of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union. Switching to management, Mr. Simons in 1954 became the manager of personnel and industrial relations for The New York Post, a position he held until 1961.
        He directed the Labor Management Institute from 1963 to 1966, when he joined the United States Lines. He became the company's vice president for labor relations the next year.
        Mr. Simons's three marriages ended in divorce. No immediate family members survive.
        In 1981, Mr. Simons made headlines when he arbitrated the contract dispute between the New York Yankees and their catcher Rick Cerone. Mr. Simons awarded Mr. Cerone an annual salary of $440,000, far more than the $350,000 Yankee offer.
        According to published reports at the time, the team's principal owner, George M. Steinbrenner III, was not amused.
      