
        Andy Sudduth, a leading American oarsman who captured Olympic and world championship medals and rowed on a powerful Harvard heavyweight crew in the 1980's, died Saturday in Marion, Mass. He was 44.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Ruth Kennedy Sudduth.
        Performing largely out of the public eye in a highly demanding sport, Sudduth became one of the most accomplished rowers at Harvard, long an imposing presence in the sport.
        ''There's no way to compare different people from one era to another, but he's certainly one of the very best that we've ever had,'' Harry Parker, the Harvard coach, told The New York Times in 1985, looking back on nearly a quarter-century of coaching the Crimson. ''It's not just that he's strong. He utilizes his strength very well. He has a natural sense of what it is to make a boat go.''
        Sudduth won a silver medal in the eight-oared shell with coxswain at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics; the United States boat lost to Canada by 42-hundredths of a second.
        He switched to single sculls and nearly scored a huge upset at the 1985 world championships. He was leading in the final 200 meters when he dropped one of his oars, and Pertti Kappinen of Finland, a three-time Olympic gold medalist, swept past him, leaving Sudduth to settle for silver. That was one of four medals he won in world championship events.
        Sudduth finished sixth in single sculls at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea.
        He captured the singles championship at the Head of the Charles regatta in Cambridge, Mass., from 1984 to 1988.
        Sudduth, a native of Baltimore, began rowing at Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire. He was a member of the 1985 Harvard heavyweight boat that won the Eastern Sprints, the Yale-Harvard regatta, the national intercollegiate championship and Henley's Grand Challenge Cup.
        Having studied computer sciences at Harvard, he later developed innovative technology, most recently for Cisco Systems. But Sudduth's dedication to rowing at times conflicted with his computer career.
        In the late 1980's, Mitsubishi was interested in hiring him with the understanding that he would go to Japan to learn about the company. Sudduth said that would be fine if he found a place to row.
        As he told The Boston Globe: ''They said, 'Well, there's a lake a couple of hundred meters wide in front of our building.' '' But he needed a few thousand meters of water, so ''I told them, you don't understand.''
        All those grueling hours of training fascinated Sudduth.
        ''If you train really hard, it's a fun existence,'' he once said. ''There's something really neat about putting a lot of effort, single-minded effort, into one pursuit.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his daughters Zoe and Sophie, from his marriage to his first wife, Saiya Remmler, of Lexington, Mass.; his mother, Charlotte Sudduth of Marion; his father, Dr. S. Scott Sudduth, and his stepmother, Gail Sudduth, of Newfields, N.H.; his brothers Matthew, of Portsmouth, N.H., and Rob, of Marion; and his sister, Jennifer Sudduth Walsh of Newton, Mass.
      