
        Jan Murray, a stand-up comedian who became one of television's first stars, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89.
        He had suffered from deteriorating health for the past few months, according to his son Howard Murray.
        Mr. Murray belonged to a close-knit generation of New York stand-up comics who honed their craft in local clubs and successfully made the transition to the then-novel medium of television.
        ''The house was always filled with comedians,'' said his daughter Diane Murray, recalling her father's friends -- Sid Caesar, Milton Berle, Shecky Greene and Buddy Hackett -- who gathered for dinner and poker games at their home.
        ''It was an unusual house, but when you are growing up, you don't realize that's not normal,'' she said.
        Mr. Murray's gravelly voice and quick wit entertained a generation of Americans through a long string of television game shows, including ''Songs For Sale,'' which had been a radio show and ran on television from 1950 to 1952, and ''Dollar a Second,'' which ran from 1953 to 1957. He also was the creator and producer of his most popular show, ''Treasure Hunt,'' which ran from 1956 to 1959.
        ''Treasure Hunt,'' though it was one of the most highly rated daytime shows, was canceled in the wake of the scandals that centered on ''Twenty One'' and ''The $64,000 Question.''
        Mr. Murray then began a new show, ''Charge Account,'' of which he was host from 1960 to 1962.
        Mr. Murray also appeared in about 20 movies and worked as a substitute host for Johnny Carson on ''The Tonight Show.'' He retired at 82, citing asthma.
        Jan Murray was born Murray Janofsky on Oct 4, 1916, in the Bronx, family members said yesterday.
        His parents, Herman and Celia Janofsky, were immigrants from Eastern Europe. ''We're not sure if they were from Poland or Russia,'' Howard Murray said. ''The border changed weekly in those days.''
        The Janofskys lived on Longfellow Avenue, and Mr. Janofsky worked in the garment industry.
        When Mr. Murray was a boy, his mother would take him to burlesque shows and to the 25-cent vaudeville performances at Loew's Boulevard Theater. After she became ill and could not leave the house, he would memorize the acts and perform them at her bedside.
        At 18, Mr. Murray had graduated from his audience of one to packed houses at the Melody Club in Union City, N.J. He commuted two hours by bus and subway and earned about $50 a week.
        He made his reputation in the Catskills working as a tummeler, a Yiddish term for an all-around entertainer.
        Mr. Murray changed his name when he began performing. ''One of his first agents told him that it would not be an easy name for the audiences to remember,'' his son said.
        He married Pearl Cohen in 1939, but they divorced. He later met a showgirl, Kathleen Mann, whom he married in 1949. His second wife's nickname was Toni, and his production company, Jantone Productions, was named for the couple.
        In addition to his wife and his son Howard and daughter Diane, both of Los Angeles, he is survived by a son by his first marriage, Walter Murray of Los Angeles; a daughter, Celia, of Apple Valley, Calif.; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        The family often shared a story about the blend of cultures in Mr. Murray's circle. Passover Seder at the Murrays was a Hollywood tradition, with a guest list of 40 on each of the two nights. Among the regular guests were Jackie Gleason, Jerry Lewis, Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme.
        Though it was a Jewish holiday feast, the chef was always Mr. Murray's Irish Catholic mother-in-law from Mississippi, Bertie Murphy. One year, she came to the Seder upset and pulled her daughter aside. ''Kathleen, I've forgotten the rolls!'' she said, not realizing that on Passover, Jews eat matzo and leavened bread is forbidden.
        Correction:  July 7, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday and in some copies on Monday about Jan Murray, the comedian and game show host, misstated the given name of his surviving son from his first marriage. He is Warren Murray, not Walter.
      