
        Henry Hewes, a longtime theater critic for The Saturday Review and the founder of the American Theater Critics Association, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 89.
        His death was announced by his friend Jeffrey Eric Jenkins, the editor of ''The Best Plays Theater Yearbook.''
        Mr. Hewes was born on April 9, 1917, and raised in Boston. He once said he was first smitten with theater when he and some school friends went to see a show backed by a classmate's father in honor of his 10th birthday. The classmate was John F. Kennedy.
        But Mr. Hewes's mother was also a theater producer, and after serving in the Air Force in World War II, Mr. Hewes abandoned his pre-med studies at Harvard to study theater at Columbia, where he graduated in 1949.
        His first theater-journalism job was as a copy boy at The New York Times, running Brooks Atkinson's reviews to the composing room page by page. Encouraged by Atkinson, Mr. Hewes began writing profiles for the Sunday arts pages before moving over to the weekly magazine The Saturday Review to write supplementary reviews as second-string critic to John Mason Brown.
        Mr. Hewes eventually took over as the chief critic, and his tenure in that role lasted from 1955 to 1973. At The Saturday Review, Mr. Hewes became the first critic at a major forum to devote as much attention to regional and international theater productions as to Broadway and Off Broadway shows.
        His interest in regional theater led him to establish the American Theater Critics Association in 1974. He was also instrumental in the establishment of the regional theater Tony Award and the creation of the American Theater Wing's design awards, now called the Hewes Awards.
        A past president of the New York Drama Critics Circle and the Drama Desk, and the editor from 1960 to 1964 of the ''Best Plays'' anthology, Mr. Hewes was also proud of his suggestion to Tennessee Williams that he turn a certain short story into a play; the play was ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.'' Mr. Hewes was elected to the Theater Hall of Fame in 2002.
        Mr. Hewes is survived by his wife, Jane; his sons, Henry, Tucker and Havelock; and six grandchildren.
        Looking back on his career in an interview in a collection of oral histories edited by Mr. Jenkins, ''Under the Copper Beech: Conversations With American Theater Critics,'' Mr. Hewes said: ''I can only say I'm sorry for every nasty thing I wrote. The fact that I was always right is no excuse.''
      