
        Martin Gallent, a former vice chairman of the New York City Planning Commission who regularly fought to preserve open space in urban settings, drowned Sunday while swimming in a lake in Westchester County. He was 75 and lived in Jackson Heights, Queens.
        The death was announced by his daughter Judith Gallent of Manhattan.
        Mr. Gallent was on the planning commission from 1969 to 1985 -- during the Lindsay, Beame and Koch administrations -- and was its vice chairman for 11 of those years. In December 1985, Mayor Edward I. Koch chose not to reappoint him, and critics said that was because of his frequent dissents on decisions to allow major construction projects in Manhattan. The commission has the power to reject projects, but can be overridden by the City Council.
        Mr. Gallent wrote 54 dissents while on the commission, many criticizing high-density developments as detrimental to light, fresh air and open space. He objected to several major Manhattan projects that qualified for bonuses allowing for taller, bulkier buildings than the zoning rules would normally permit.
        Mr. Gallent nonetheless took a balanced approach to urban planning, in the opinion of John E. Zucotti, who was chairman of the planning commission under Mayor John V. Lindsay.
        ''I was able to reason with him to produce effective decisions,'' Mr. Zucotti said. ''He was a responsible community activist, concerned about urban design implications. My view of his dissents was that they were usually well-founded.''
        Martin Gallent was born on Feb. 1, 1931, the son of Joseph and Selma Gallent of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. His father was an electrician. In 1953, he graduated from the New York State College of Forestry at Syracuse University. After serving two years in the Army, he graduated from the New York University Law School in 1959.
        Besides his daughter Judith, Mr. Gallent is survived by his wife of 52 years, Aline Isaacs Gallent; another daughter, Amy Gallent of West Hartford, Conn.; and a son, Gregory, of Riverdale in the Bronx.
        From 1960 to 1969, Mr. Gallent was a partner in a law firm in Jackson Heights. Then he opened his own neighborhood law practice while also serving as chairman of Community Board 3. Soon after, he was appointed to the planning commission.
        During the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, Mr. Gallent saw green space as a remedy for what he called the city's ''festering slums.'' In an Op-Ed article for The New York Times in 1974, he wrote, ''Let's turn the South Bronx green, replace every vacant lot and every abandoned building with a tree farm or an experimental agricultural farm.''
        In recent years, Mr. Gallent was a partner in the law firm of Gallent & Aumont in Jackson Heights, a partner in G & G Planning, a consulting firm, and an adjunct professor of planning at Queens College.
      