
        Jack Sameth, a television director and producer who worked with pioneering newscasters and on prime-time entertainment shows at ABC, then helped create award-winning programs like ''The Great American Dream Machine'' and ''The Brain'' for public television, died Tuesday at his home in Northport, N.Y. He was 79.
        The cause was heart failure, said Stella Giammasi, a spokeswoman for Channel 13, where Mr. Sameth worked from 1970 until his retirement in 1996.
        Starting as a page at the DuMont Television Network in the late 1940's, Mr. Sameth worked his way up through the ranks and by the mid-1950's was directing ABC network news, working during his tenure with people like Howard K. Smith and Mike Wallace. In the days of live broadcasting, he also directed entertainment programs like ''Stop the Music,'' ''Beat the Clock,'' ''The Hollywood Palace'' and ''The Jimmy Dean Show.''
        In 1971, a year after he began work at Channel 13, Mr. Sameth became the director of ''This Week'' with Bill Moyers, shifting his emphasis from the grand visual images of commercial television to the intimacy of the conversation.
        ''I was stiff, nerdy and awkward on camera,'' Mr. Moyers said Friday of his early television efforts. ''Jack came out of the control room and said: 'Bill, you sound like a stentorian. I want you to imagine one person behind that black eye of the camera and talk to that person; forget everybody else.' ''
        Mr. Moyers said he envisioned his grandmother through the lens, and has done so ever since.
        Jack Sameth was born on Sept. 16, 1926, in Bluefield, W. Va., the son of Maurice and Octavia Sameth. Soon after, the family moved to Glen Ridge, N.J., where his father ran an exterminating company. Mr. Sameth, who never married, is survived by two sisters, Lois Geldermann of Sterling, Va., and Dorothy Buswell of Palmyra, Va.
        After a stint in the Army, stationed in Korea after World War II, Mr. Sameth graduated from Syracuse University, where he studied drama. He then applied for the job as a page at the DuMont Network.
        During his news career at ABC, Mr. Sameth directed coverage of the Kennedy-Nixon presidential debates in 1960 and of the first manned space flight at Cape Canaveral, in 1961. In 1976, he was the director of ''The ABC Evening News'' when Barbara Walters became the first woman to anchor a national prime-time newscast.
        At Channel 13 in 1970, he directed ''The Great American Dream Machine,'' an irreverent weekly conglomeration of sketches, songs and animation, which won an Emmy. In 1984, the PBS series ''The Brain,'' directed by Mr. Sameth, won a Peabody Award.
        Correction:  July 11, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Jack Sameth, an early director of television news, referred incorrectly to his work on the Kennedy-Nixon presidential debates in 1960. He directed ABC's coverage of one debate, not all four. The obituary also referred imprecisely to a space flight whose coverage he directed. It was the first manned space flight from Cape Canaveral, on May 5, 1961, not the first manned spaceflight, which was made by Yuri Gagarin on April 12, 1961.
      