
        C. Frederick Mosteller, the founding chairman of Harvard's statistics department and a pioneer in using statistics to analyze an array of topics as disparate as anesthesia, presidential elections and baseball, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 89.
        The cause of death was sepsis, said his son, William.
        From Dr. Mosteller's earliest research, he ventured where few statisticians had gone before. During World War II, he calculated the dispersion pattern of a string of bombs. After the 1948 presidential election, he was a member of a committee that looked into how presidential pre-election polls erroneously forecast Thomas E. Dewey as the winner over Harry S. Truman, finding that pollsters' data had contained signs that the election would be close and that their analysis of the data had included unproven assumptions.
        In the late 1950's, Dr. Mosteller assisted in analyzing data from a large clinical study looking at the anesthetic halothane, which was suspected of causing fatal liver damage in some patients. The analysis showed no evidence that halothane was more dangerous than other forms of anesthesia.
        He worked with Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a professor of government at Harvard and later a senator from New York, on studies looking at the impact of home life on children's performance in school. They argued that raising families out of poverty would have a greater educational impact than pouring money directly into schools.
        Dr. Mosteller also appeared on national television in 1961, teaching a course on statistics on NBC's early morning program ''Continental Classroom.''
        In 1962 he stepped into a question of prose. Scholars disagreed on who -- James Madison or Alexander Hamilton -- was the author of a dozen of the essays in the Federalist Papers, articles published anonymously in 1787 and 1788 that described how the fledgling United States government was to work. Analyzing the frequency of certain words -- like ''upon,'' which Hamilton used frequently and Madison hardly at all -- Dr. Mosteller and David L. Wallace of the University of Chicago concluded that Madison wrote all 12.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Mosteller worked on studies that questioned whether the benefits of some surgical procedures were worth their costs. In the 1980's, he was instrumental in persuading Tennessee to conduct a controlled study on the effect of classroom size. The study showed convincingly that smaller classes significantly helped children from poorer minority families.
        In his half-century career at Harvard, Dr. Mosteller served as chairman of four departments.
        ''He was a remarkably disciplined scholar,'' said James Ware, the dean for academic affairs at Harvard, ''and he really knew how to share with other people.''
        Charles Frederick Mosteller was born in Clarksburg, W.Va., on Dec. 24, 1916. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics from the Carnegie Institute of Technology, the forerunner of Carnegie Mellon University. He received a doctorate in mathematics from Princeton in 1946.
        He then joined Harvard as a lecturer in the social relations department. After being promoted to professor in 1951, he became acting chairman of the department in 1953.
        At that time, Harvard had nine statistics professors, and they were scattered among different departments. In 1957, the university created a statistics department, and Dr. Mosteller was its first chairman.
        ''Harvard literally created a department for Fred,'' said Richard Light, an education professor at Harvard who was one of Dr. Mosteller's graduate students.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Mosteller was chairman of the biostatistics department at the Harvard School of Public Health, and in the 1980's he was chairman of the health policy and management department. After retiring in 1987, he continued to work as an emeritus professor until he moved to Virginia two years ago.
        In addition to his son William, of Falls Church, Va., Dr. Mosteller is survived by his daughter, Gale Mosteller of Arlington, Va.; and a grandson. His wife, Virginia Gilroy Mosteller, with whom he shared streetcar rides in Pittsburgh and married in 1941, died in 2000.
        In 1952, he published one of his best-known articles, ''The World Series Competition,'' in The Journal of the American Statistical Association. That work, inspired by the Boston Red Sox's loss to the St. Louis Cardinals in 1946, was the first known academic paper looking at the statistics of baseball. Dr. Mosteller showed that the stronger team -- the one with a higher winning percentage -- would still often lose a series to a weaker team, simply because of chance.
        ''There should be no confusion here,'' he wrote, ''between the 'winning team' and the 'better team.' ''
        Correction:  July 28, 2006, Friday  An obituary yesterday about C. Frederick Mosteller, the founding chairman of Harvard's statistics department, misstated an affiliation for a colleague, James Ware. He is dean for academic affairs at the Harvard School of Public Health, not at the university as a whole.
      