
        James E. West, who was recalled from office as mayor of Spokane over an Internet gay sex scandal, died on Saturday. He was 55.
        The cause was complications of recent cancer surgery, according to a family statement issued by the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle.
        Mr. West, a Republican who had frequently opposed gay rights bills in his 20 years as a state legislator, was voted out of the mayor's office last December, seven months after The Spokesman-Review, the Spokane daily, began publishing results of a computer sting it had conducted to track his online activities in a gay chat room. The newspaper reported that in Internet chats involving discussions about sex, he had offered to help someone he thought was an 18-year-old high school student get a City Hall internship.
        The mayor acknowledged having relations with adult men but denied doing anything illegal. The F.B.I. conducted a public corruption investigation into whether he had used his office for personal benefit, but the inquiry ended with no criminal charges.
        Mr. West had risen to majority leader of the State Senate before stepping down in 2003 to run for his ''dream job,'' that of Spokane mayor.
        But less than 18 months into his four-year term, The Spokesman-Review began publishing its series on his online activities.
        The City Council, business leaders, and the state and local Republican parties were soon urging that he resign, but he refused and fought the recall.
        With the recall vote pending, he said in an interview last October: ''I wish I had never gone online at all. I scratch my head today. I can't tell you why.''
        ''It's an unusual episode in my life,'' he said. ''I wish there was a rewind button; rewind and erase and start over. Basically, that's what I'm asking the public, for a second chance.''
        Instead, the voters turned him out, 65 percent to 35 percent.
        The outcome made him the first Spokane city official to be recalled from office, and ended a 27-year career in state and city politics.
        Mr. West was divorced and had no children. He is survived by his father, a brother and a sister.
      