
        Philip Rieff, an influential sociologist, author and cultural critic who wrote well-known books on the impact of Sigmund Freud on society and on the direction of morality and Western culture, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 83.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, David, the only child of Dr. Rieff's eight-year marriage in the 1950's to the writer Susan Sontag, who died in 2004.
        Dr. Rieff, who taught at the University of Pennsylvania, was best known in scholarly circles for three early works on Freud and culture, published from 1959 to 1973, and for a book that appeared last January, ''Sacred Order/Social Order: My Life Among the Deathworks: Illustrations of the Aesthetics of Authority'' (University of Virginia Press), which was to have been the first of several volumes on related cultural themes.
        The book, which uses works by Picasso, Marcel Duchamp, James Joyce and other artists and writers to explore what Dr. Rieff portrays as a battlefield on which culture is under attack, mounts a counterattack and is generally dismissive of feminism, gay rights, the television channel MTV and much of what has come to be regarded as social progress.
        In an interview last year with David Glenn for The Chronicle of Higher Education, Dr. Rieff spoke of the emptiness of modern ''anti-culture'' and voiced deep pessimism for the future. ''He does not believe that any restorative project is actually feasible,'' Mr. Glenn wrote. ''When asked what he believes scholars might do to slow down the process of cultural decline, he says, 'They can become inactivists. They'll do less damage that way. Inactivism is the ticket.' ''
        In an academic career that began after World War II, Dr. Rieff taught at the University of Chicago; Brandeis University; the University of California, Berkeley; and from 1961 until his retirement in 1992, at the University of Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Rieff often dazzled and occasionally puzzled students with multilayered but always authoritative lectures that blended philosophy, theology, economics, history, literature, psychology and dashes of poetry and Plato like ingredients in a sociological mulligatawny.
        Readers often found his prose style difficult but the ideas behind it rewarding.
        Dr. Rieff's first book, paradoxically titled ''Freud: The Mind of the Moralist'' (Viking Press, 1959), established him as an important sociologist. It argued that Freudian ideas, which gave rise to the idea of the ''psychological man'' as the dominant moral type in the 20th century, had had a corrosive effect on Western morality and culture because such an individual tended to relate all public questions not to received traditions of communal morality, but ''to himself and his own emotions.''
        After editing a 10-volume edition of Freud's papers that appeared in 1961, Dr. Rieff completed his second book, ''The Triumph of the Therapeutic: Uses of Faith After Freud'' (Harper & Row, 1966), which said that Freudian therapies had gone awry in modern society, aiming not at a healthier life but at ''better living,'' with rationales to replace virtue with value and sidestep consequences.
        In ''Fellow Teachers'' (Harper & Row, 1973), Dr. Rieff explored the role of teachers in higher education and argued for a ''feeling intellect'' that avoids preaching or espousing doctrines to students.
        ''My re-educated friends, with their ardor for innovation and the perverse, are too influential as things are,'' he wrote. ''This psychosocialism may destroy what remains of our received culture in order to replace it with permanent therapies.''
        Philip Rieff was born in Chicago on Dec. 15, 1922, the son of refugees who had fled political violence in Lithuania in 1921. Some members of his family who remained behind died in the Holocaust. He entered the University of Chicago in 1939, and after military service in World War II, he resumed his studies and earned a bachelor's degree in 1946, a master's in 1947 and a doctorate in 1954.
        He joined the faculty in 1947 as a teaching instructor. In 1950, Ms. Sontag, then a 17-year-old sophomore at the University of Chicago with a brilliant academic record, audited a class taught by the 28-year-old Dr. Rieff. They talked, were captivated by one another -- she later wrote that he was the first person with whom she could ever really talk -- and they were married 10 days later.
        In 1952, the couple moved to Boston. Dr. Rieff joined the faculty at Brandeis, Ms. Sontag began graduate work at Harvard, and their son was born. After earning two master's degrees and completing course work for a doctorate, Ms. Sontag received a fellowship to Oxford and Dr. Rieff a fellowship at Stamford; the couple went their separate ways for one academic year, their son was looked after by Dr. Rieff's parents, and the marriage unraveled.
        In 1959, the couple divorced, and Ms. Sontag reclaimed her son and moved to New York to begin her celebrated career.
        Dr. Rieff joined the faculty at Berkeley, where he taught until moving to Pennsylvania in 1961. Biographers have suggested that Ms. Sontag contributed significantly to Dr. Rieff's first book, ''Freud: The Mind of the Moralist,'' although she was not listed as a co-author.
        In 1963, Dr. Rieff married Alison Douglas Knox, a Philadelphia lawyer. Besides his wife and son, of New York, a journalist and author who specializes in foreign affairs, Dr. Rieff is survived by one grandchild.
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on July 4 about Philip Rieff, a sociologist and expert on Freud who was once married to Susan Sontag, referred incorrectly to his academic record and misspelled the name of the university that awarded him a fellowship. At the time that he met and married Ms. Sontag, in 1950, he held a master's degree; he did not receive his doctorate until 1954. His fellowship was at Stanford, not Stamford.
      