
        Lt. Gov. Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, who followed his family's twin traditions of philanthropy and politics in the state adopted by his father, died here Sunday. He was 57.
        The cause was complications of a rare blood ailment, his office said.
        Mr. Rockefeller disclosed last July that he had myeloproliferative disorder, a bone marrow malfunction in which excessive numbers of red or white blood cells are manufactured and which can lead to leukemia.
        With that announcement, Mr. Rockefeller ended his campaign for the Republican nomination for governor in Arkansas and began treatment in Seattle. On July 8 this year, Mr. Rockefeller returned to Little Rock by air ambulance and announced that the regimen, including two bone marrow transplants, had been unsuccessful.
        Mr. Rockefeller, one of the country's richest men, was a great-grandson of John D. Rockefeller, a founder of Standard Oil. His father, Winthrop, was a two-term governor of Arkansas and the brother of John D. III, Nelson, Laurance and David.
        The elder Winthrop moved to Arkansas from New York in 1953 after a bitter and, by the standards of the day, expensive divorce from Barbara Sears Rockefeller, a socialite and the daughter of Lithuanian immigrants. Winthrop Paul was the couple's only child.
        By winning two terms as a reform governor, the elder Rockefeller, a political moderate, helped make Republicanism acceptable in Arkansas, which had been a Democratic redoubt since Reconstruction. He died of pancreatic cancer in 1973. In 1996, the son undertook the political path of the father and captured two-thirds of the vote in a special election for lieutenant governor.
        Mr. Rockefeller later won the two full four-year terms Arkansas law allows before starting his campaign for governor.
        Mr. Rockefeller's uncle Nelson was elected governor of New York four times before resigning to become vice president under President Gerald R. Ford. John D. Rockefeller IV, a cousin, won two terms as governor of West Virginia and is now in his fourth term in the United States Senate.
        Before entering politics, Winthrop Paul Rockefeller performed two decades of volunteer work in the public and private sectors. He was a member of the Arkansas State Police Commission for 14 years and was appointed by the first President Bush to the President's Council on Rural America, of which he was later chairman.
        Mr. Rockefeller was born Sept. 17, 1948, in New York City and was educated largely in Switzerland, France and Great Britain. He was a graduate of the ranch management school at Texas Christian University.
        He is survived by his wife, Lisenne Dudderar Rockefeller, whom he married in 1983, and by eight children, three from his first marriage, to Deborah Cluett Sage, which ended in divorce in 1979 after seven years. Mr. Rockefeller's mother, 90, who moved to Arkansas from Manhattan in 2005, also survives him, as do a stepsister, Anne Bartley of San Francisco, and a stepbrother, Bruce Bartley of Little Rock.
        Mr. Rockefeller was the sole heir of his father's estate, which, compared with his numerous cousins' shares, made his part of his family's enormous fortune all the larger. Forbes magazine, in its annual list of the wealthiest Americans, routinely reported Mr. Rockefeller's assets at $1.2 billion, an estimate he just as routinely dismissed as greatly exaggerated.
        He was given to describing his financial situation as ''comfortable'' but seemed uncomfortable even with that minimal concession to the obvious. Mr. Rockefeller's business interests included four automobile dealerships as well as real estate, resort development and retailing.
        He lived most of the time in a large, well-guarded home in the Hillcrest neighborhood of Little Rock. He also maintained Winrock Farms, the sprawling estate created by his father atop Petit Jean Mountain at Morrilton, about 50 miles from Little Rock. It has sometimes been called Pocantico Hills South, a reference to John D. Rockefeller's Hudson Valley estate in New York, now a National Trust Historic Site.
        Correction:  July 19, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, the lieutenant governor of Arkansas, misstated the timing of the resignation of Mr. Rockefeller's uncle Nelson Rockefeller as governor of New York and his acceptance of the vice presidency. He stepped down in December 1973; his appointment as President Gerald Ford's vice president was in August 1974, not immediately after his resignation. The obituary also misstated Winthrop Rockefeller's margin of victory in the 1996 special election for lieutenant governor. It was less than 1 percent; he did not win two-thirds of the vote until the election for a full term.
      