
        David A. Bright, an internationally renowned authority on the sinking of the Andrea Doria who was helping lead preparations to commemorate the disaster's 50th anniversary later this month, collapsed and died on Saturday after making a dive into the wreck of the ship, about 60 miles south of Nantucket. He was 49 and lived in Flemington, N.J.
        The exact cause of death has not been determined, said Petty Officer Rochelle Padilla of the Coast Guard Station at Woods Hole, Mass., which responded to an emergency call at 6:50 p.m. on Saturday.
        According to the Coast Guard's report, Mr. Bright surfaced from the wreck; boarded his dive boat, the Sirena; and collapsed. Evacuated by Coast Guard helicopter, he was taken by ambulance to Cape Cod Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
        A scientist by training, Mr. Bright was a skilled wreck diver who had dived the remains of the Andrea Doria more than 100 times. He had an important collection of artifacts salvaged from the ship, including china and crystal, which he often lent to museum exhibitions.
        The founder of the Andrea Doria Survivor Reunions Committee, Mr. Bright acted as a liaison between divers and survivors of the sinking. He had made Saturday's dive in part to help another diver photograph the wreck for the 50th anniversary reunion on July 23 at the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y.
        The reunion will take place as scheduled, now as a memorial to Mr. Bright, organizers said.
        The Andrea Doria sank on July 25, 1956, en route to New York from Genoa, Italy, after it collided with another passenger ship, the Stockholm. Of the Andrea Doria's nearly 1,500 passengers and more than 600 crew members, more than 2,000 people were saved, in one of the most stunningly successful rescues in maritime history.
        Mr. Bright was the 14th person to die while diving the Andrea Doria, Kevin F. McMurray, the author of ''Deep Descent,'' a book about diving the wreck, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
        Mr. Bright, a diver for more than 30 years, routinely dived famous wrecks around the world, including those of the Titanic; the Monitor, the Civil War ironclad; and the Empress of Ireland, which sank in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, off Quebec, in 1914.
        At his death, he was president of the Nautical Research Group, based in Flemington. The company, which he founded in 2003, does nautical archaeology and scientific research on wrecks and other underwater sites.
        A frequent lecturer on shipwrecks, Mr. Bright contributed to more than 40 documentary films, for National Geographic, the Discovery Channel and the major television networks, among others.
        His work was also featured in several books, among them ''Deep Descent: Adventure and Death Diving the Andrea Doria'' (Pocket Books, 2001), by Mr. McMurray; and recent editions of ''Collision Course: The Classic Story of the Collision of the Andrea Doria and the Stockholm'' (Lyons Press, 2004), by Alvin Moscow.
        In the dangerous pastime of shipwreck diving, the Andrea Doria is considered one of the most dangerous wrecks of all, Mr. McMurray said yesterday.
        ''The Andrea Doria is considered the Mount Everest of wreck diving,'' he said. ''It's very deep; it's below what they consider recreation limits.''
        The prescribed limit for recreational diving is 130 feet, Mr. McMurray said; the wreck of the Andrea Doria lies at about 250 feet at its deepest point.
        Among the hazards a diver can incur at this depth are decompression sickness, familiarly known as the bends, which can result in an embolism; and oxygen toxicity, in which the oxygen in the gas mixture the diver breathes can become toxic under pressure.
        David Alexander Christopher Bright was born on June 29, 1957, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. He began diving as a teenager, exploring the historic wrecks of the Great Lakes.
        Mr. Bright received two bachelor's degrees, one in biology, the other in German, from Pennsylvania State University in 1980; he earned a master's in physiology from Penn State two years later. For many years, he worked as a research scientist for pharmaceutical companies, among them Pfizer, before turning to diving full time.
        Mr. Bright is survived by his wife, the former Elaine Mueller, whom he married in 1983, and their three children, Michelle, Matthew and Heather, all of Flemington; his mother, Ann, of Niagara Falls; and two brothers, Michael, of Philadelphia; and James, of Niagara Falls.
        Mr. Bright was also involved in research on the Titanic, which lies nearly three miles down in the North Atlantic. In 2003 and again last year, he descended to the wreck in a Russian Mir submersible to study its progressive deterioration.
        But he was most passionate about the Andrea Doria, colleagues said yesterday. Mr. Bright began diving the Andrea Doria in the 1980's, one of the first to do so. He was fascinated by the ship's collision and hoped one day to pinpoint its precise cause.
        ''That was David's passion,'' said Capt. Robert Meurn, an emeritus professor at the Merchant Marine Academy who is helping to plan the Andrea Doria reunion. ''And he was going down this past weekend to see if the keel of the Andrea Doria had been breached by the Stockholm's bow.''
        Correction:  July 15, 2006, Saturday  An obituary on Tuesday about David A. Bright, an authority on the Andrea Doria, referred imprecisely to the date of the ship's sinking. While the Andrea Doria collided with the passenger ship Stockholm on July 25, 1956, it did not sink until 11 hours later, on July 26.
      