
        Louise Simone Bennett-Coverly, a Jamaican poet and folklorist who became the voice of the island's culture at home and abroad, died on Wednesday in Toronto. She was 86.
        Her death was announced by the Jamaica Information Service, which did not give a cause. She was hospitalized in Toronto after collapsing late Tuesday night.
        A social commentator who liberally used Jamaican patois and made famous the Jamaican catchphrase ''Walk good,'' she brought an overwhelming talent to the stage, radio, television and movies. She also was a presenter on the BBC's Caribbean Service.
        Louise Bennett, known to her fans worldwide as Miss Lou, was born on North Street in Kingston on Sept. 7, 1919, the only child of Cornelius Bennett, a baker, and Kerene Robinson, a dressmaker. Her father died when she was young, and she was reared mostly by her mother.
        Ms. Bennett was educated in Jamaican schools, and though she was fond of literature, she once described herself as ''an average student.''
        In 1936 she made her first public appearance, on Christmas Day at a concert, reciting a poem in Jamaican dialect. She was presented a prize of two guineas by the impresario Eric Winston Coverly, better known as Chalk Talk, who became her husband in 1954. She used the money to buy a pair of shoes.
        She continued to write in dialect, following in the footsteps of the well-known Jamaican poet Claude McKay, although he only flirted with the style.
        Not surprisingly, Ms. Bennett was ostracized by educated Jamaicans who saw the local patois as inferior to the Oxford English they tried to speak.
        The island's newspaper The Gleaner refused at first to publish her poems, but later paid her for a regular Sunday column, which became popular.
        Her published verse originated mostly as print or radio journalism, and her monologues often referred to the news, with shrewd social and political commentary. She invented the character of Aunty Roachy on the radio to ridicule the authorities with wit, sometimes ending her monologues with local proverbs.
        Ms. Bennett performed in her first Christmas pantomime in 1943, and she and the stage actor Ranny Williams immediately became the leading duo of Jamaican theater. Together they wrote ''Anancy and Beeny Bud'' (1958), ''Jamaica Way'' (1959) and ''Carib Gold'' (1960). (Anancy, the famous trickster of African and Caribbean folklore, was a frequent subject for her.)
        Also in 1943, she entered Friends' College, where she began to study Jamaican folklore seriously.
        Ms. Bennett won a British Council Scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London in 1945 and was the first black student there. After graduation she worked with British repertory companies. In 1945 and 1946 she was host of a BBC radio show, ''Caribbean Carnival.''
        Returning to Jamaica in 1947, she found it hard to earn a living. In 1950 she went back to England, where she again found work with the BBC, as host of another Caribbean show, ''West Indian Night.''
        Moving to New York in 1953, she worked at Macy's. She and Mr. Coverly directed a folk musical, ''Day in Jamaica,'' which began at St. Martin's Little Theater in Harlem and later moved around Episcopal church halls in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
        Ms. Bennett worked with Alma John, a well-known black broadcaster, and sang folk songs at the Village Vanguard in Greenwich Village. Then, in May 1954, she married Mr. Coverly; they returned to Jamaica in 1955.
        In 1956 she was appointed drama officer with the Jamaica Social Welfare Commission, then was its director from 1959 to 1963. Her work at the commission took her across Jamaica, putting her back in touch with her studies of its folklore and oral history.
        She also taught drama and folklore at the University of the West Indies, and was on the staff of the Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation briefly in 1959, but resigned to pursue a freelance career.
        Ms. Bennett was made a Member of the British Empire (M.B.E.) in 1960 for her work in Jamaican literature and theater.
        Among her several books on poetry and folklore, ''Jamaica Labrish'' (1966) is perhaps her most famous. Her first publication was ''Dialect Verses'' (1942). She also recorded many albums, including ''Jamaica Folksongs'' (Folkways) in 1953 and ''Yes Me Dear'' (Island Records Jamaica) in 1981.
        Ms. Bennett was perhaps the most popular radio personality in Jamaica in the 1950's and 60's, with shows like ''Laugh With Louise,'' ''Miss Lou's Views'' and ''The Lou and Ranny Show.'' In the 1970's Jamaican children adored ''Ring Ding,'' her Saturday morning children's television show.
        In the 1970's a theater for children's productions was named for her; it was refurbished in 1987 to celebrate her 50th anniversary in the theater. In 1979 the Jamaica Information Service produced a film on her, ''The Hon. Miss Lou.''
        Ms. Bennett and Mr. Coverly lived in Canada for several years. The Jamaican government had refused to grant duty concessions for costly drugs he needed, and they sold their home and possessions to make the move. She said at the time that Jamaica was wherever she was.
        After she nursed him through years of ill health, her husband died at 91. Ms. Bennett is survived by her stepson, Fabian Coverly, and three step-grandsons.
        She made a tearful and triumphant final visit to Jamaica in 2003 for a celebration organized by the former prime minister P. J. Patterson.
      