
        Robert H. Brooks, who, as the self-styled ''Worldwide Wing Commander'' of Hooters restaurants, known for spicy chicken wings and spicier waitresses, took the company to 46 states and 20 countries, died on Sunday at his home in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 69.
        The company announced the death. The Associated Press said an autopsy found he died of unspecified natural causes.
        Mr. Brooks, who was raised as a Methodist on a tobacco farm lacking plumbing and electricity, might have seemed an odd sort to lead an empire based on hot pants and pitchers of beer. When he first invested in Hooters, he said he did not know that the name and owl-eyes logo were meant as a reference to the female anatomy.
        He got involved in Hooters only after the friend he had lent money to invest in Hooters franchises could not pay him back. His first action as operator was to change from a bar concept that sold little food to a full-service restaurant and bar.
        He proceeded to open Hooters franchises from San Diego to São Paulo to Shanghai, at 430 locations in all. He started a magazine, pro golf tour, stock car racing series, credit card and casino, all under the Hooters name. His boldest venture, Hooters Air, an airline with hostesses in the familiar orange shorts and white tank-tops, began flying two years ago, but was grounded by high fuel prices.
        Although he was apt to volunteer to interviewers that he liked to invite the ministers of his church to stop by Hooters to appreciate what he considered its intrinsic wholesomeness, Mr. Brooks made it clear what he was promoting.
        ''Good food, cold beer and pretty girls never go out of style,'' he said in an interview with Fortune magazine in 2003.
        Hooters, with its televisions tuned to sports channels and jukeboxes crammed with oldies, was the creation of six Midwesterners who opened the first one in Clearwater, Fla., in 1983. According to their Web site, they wanted a place ''they couldn't get kicked out of.''
        The founders and Mr. Brooks clashed raucously over the years. He had the right to operate all Hooters' restaurants outside the six-county area of Tampa Bay, but was not legally allowed to budge from the founders' procedures.
        They complained when they thought he tinkered with their signature blue cheese dressing and seethed when he tried to use Lycra fabric for the tops of the waitresses' uniforms.
        Even as Mr. Brooks acquired a vast majority of the expanding Hooters chain, the original owners, who still controlled the trademark, held him at bay in lawsuit after lawsuit. Finally, in 2001, Mr. Books paid them $60 million for the trademark and also gave them franchising rights around Tampa Bay, Chicago and New York.
        Leading up to the settlement, Mr. Brooks and the original owners had cooperated to successfully fight federal charges that they practiced sex discrimination by hiring only women as servers. As part of their joint campaign, they dressed up a restaurant manager named Vince in a waitress uniform and put him on billboards.
        Robert Howell Brooks was born outside Loris, S.C., on Feb. 6, 1937. He majored in dairy science at Clemson University and was drafted into the Army in the late 1950's.
        He worked for a Philadelphia food formula company before using his savings of $10,000 to start his own company, now called Naturally Fresh Foods, in 1966. It developed nondairy coffee creamer and preservative-free refrigerated salad dressings, among other products.
        Mr. Brooks lent money to a friend, who had bought the rights to build Hooters franchises outside the Tampa Bay area. When his friend could not keep up with payments, Mr. Brooks called the note.
        His son Mark was killed in a plane crash with the champion Nascar driver Alan Kulwicki in 1993, as they traveled to promote Hooters.
        Mr. Brooks is survived by his wife, Tami; another son, Coby; his daughter, Boni Belle Brooks; and his stepchildren, Jerrett and Christi Oates.
        Mr. Brooks declined to follow his wife's advice to eliminate bikini contests, saying he did not see the difference between these and the Miss America contest, but he did make all restaurants remove a Playboy photo of a former Hooters waitress.
        ''I know he did that for me,'' Mrs. Brooks said in an interview with The Sun News of Myrtle Beach.
      