
        Winston Wilson, one of the founders of Wilson Daniels Ltd., the Napa Valley wine importing firm that is the American source of some of the most famous wines of France and Italy, died Sunday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 63.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, a spokeswoman for Wilson Daniels said.
        Mr. Wilson, who was known as Win, spent his entire business life in the wine trade, following in the footsteps of his father, Winston Wilson Sr., a partner in ''21'' Brands Inc., a New York wine and spirits company. In 1967, at the age of 24, he moved from New York to California, ostensibly to play volleyball but also to take a job as a salesman with the E.& J. Gallo Winery. He moved next to the Young's Market Company in Los Angeles, where he formed a close friendship with Vernon O. Underwood Jr., whose family had founded Young's in the 19th century.
        For a time, Mr. Wilson had his own wine wholesale company in Los Angeles, the J. M. Winston Company. When he moved to the Cuvaison Winery, in the Napa Valley, as marketing director, he met Jack Daniels, who held a similar job at Chappellet Vineyards, another Napa Valley winery. In 1978, the two men founded Wilson Daniels Ltd. to market and distribute domestic and imported wines.
        Their first clients were their own former bosses, Cuvaison and Chappellet, and a third Napa Valley winery, St. Clement. Only a year later, in one of the great coups in the wine business, they took on as a client the legendary Domaine de la Romanée-Conti, in Vosne-Romanée in Burgundy, France. Later, that same year, they landed another Burgundian star, the Domaine Leroy, owned by the family of Lalou Bize-Leroy, then one of the principals in the Domaine de la Romanée-Conti. For good measure, they added, also in 1979, the Tuscan estate of Biondi-Santi, where the rare Italian wine Brunello was created.
        Later, the Wilson Daniels portfolio grew to include Faiveley, Dujac, Leflaive and Pierre Morey, all prominent Burgundy producers; Kreydenweiss in Alsace; Delamotte and Salon in Champagne; and Mastroberardino in Italy. Felton Road in New Zealand became a client, along with Ponzi in Oregon and Schramsberg, Clos Pegase and Fisher Vineyards, among other California wineries.
        Mr. Wilson was a passionate athlete. Dangerous cholesterol levels forced him into an extreme exercise regimen that became a second way of life. From 1986 to 1996, he raced in 84 triathlons, and he was still nationally ranked in the sport at 50. He enjoyed tennis, skiing, scuba diving, bike racing and his early favorite, volleyball. His love for extreme sports led to a close friendship with the cyclist Lance Armstrong, who survived cancer and won the Tour de France seven times, and Mr. Wilson became a top fund-raiser for the Lance Armstrong Foundation.
        In 1997, Mr. Wilson and Mr. Daniels entered into a shareholder partnership with Mr. Wilson's old friend, Mr. Underwood. Since December 2003, Wilson Daniels Ltd. has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Young's Holdings, which also owns the Young's Market Company. Mr. Wilson is survived by his wife, Maura Campion Wilson; a sister, Elizabeth Cody; and a stepdaughter and stepson, Kendall and Logan Asmuth.
      