
        Louis Winnick, an economist who played a major role in guiding the investments of the Ford Foundation in housing, community renewal and minority enterprise activity from the late 1960's through the 1980's, died yesterday at a hospice in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
        The cause of death was mesothelioma, a type of lung cancer that his daughter, Pamela R. Winnick, attributed to exposure to asbestos when Mr. Winnick worked in the Brooklyn Navy Yard during World War II.
        Mr. Winnick was born in Romania and came to Brooklyn when he was 1. He graduated from Brooklyn College and earned graduate degrees in economics at Columbia University in the postwar period. The start of major government programs to cure the huge national housing shortages made housing economics an important area of study at the time.
        After stints as director of research of the New York City Planning Commission and the Housing and Redevelopment Board in the late 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Winnick went to the Ford Foundation in 1962, serving from 1968 to 1986 as deputy vice president in the National Affairs division.
        In the period following the urban turbulence of the late 1960's, the Ford Foundation began to channel major resources into urban projects. Mr. Winnick was in the forefront of this effort, first as head of the urban and metropolitan affairs program and later as deputy director of the national affairs division headed by Mitchell Sviridoff.
        He was credited with persuading the Ford Foundation to do ''program-related investment'' after McGeorge Bundy became president of the foundation in 1966. With this policy, the foundation began making both equity investments and low-interest loans to schools, hospitals, housing organizations and small businesses in low-income urban areas.
        Ford, like other foundations, had previously focused on grants only, following the philosophy that investing and philanthropy should not be mingled. In the decades since, 300 to 400 foundations have used the program-related-investment approach in a wide range of activities in the public interest, said John Simon, a Yale Law School professor specializing in the nonprofit sector.
        To enable the housing organizations to operate over the long term, Mr. Winnick inspired the creation of a secondary market to purchase the loans once the housing was producing income, thus providing them with the capital for initiating new projects. The Ford Foundation itself was initially the sole loan purchaser.
        Simultaneously, Mr. Winnick gained a reputation as a nurturer of individual talent and a voice of practical realism in a field where idealism and dedication did not always produce success on the ground.
        ''He was my mentor, a man who knew the big picture and the micro situation,'' said Anita Miller, who worked on Mr. Winnick's staff in the 1970's and later became the first woman on the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Through his support, she said, the Ford Foundation financed a demonstration program in St. Louis that showed that strong tenant involvement in management could be a cure for the ills of public housing.
        He also promoted the idea of home ownership by low-income households. In Pittsburgh, a demonstration program showed that low-income buyers could be reliable borrowers with properly structured loans. This success stimulated bank mortgage lending in poor neighborhoods nationally, a long-term goal of Mr. Winnick's.
        ''He was a voice of reality at Ford,'' said George B. Sternlieb, former director of the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University. ''The young idealists listened to him on the complex art of housing delivery.''
        Another theme of Mr. Winnick's career was the necessity of preserving privately owned housing, which he felt could not be accomplished effectively through punitive policies toward landlords. Through his efforts, the Ford Foundation financed research by the Rutgers center that demonstrated that the best way to do this was to strengthen the rent-paying ability of low-income tenants, a philosophy that helped inspire the national Section 8 program of rent subsidies to them.
        During the mayoralty of John V. Lindsay, Mr. Winnick was instrumental in the creation of the Fund for the City of New York, which began as a research entity and now designs and puts innovative approaches to urban problems into effect. Starting with a $1 million grant from the Ford Foundation in 1968, it now functions on a budget of $30 million a year with support from 15 foundations.
        Mr. Winnick was a prolific writer, largely for academic journals but also for periodicals and newspapers. In 1990 his book ''New People in Old Neighborhoods'' was published by Russell Sage. Drawn from his research on the Brooklyn community of Sunset Park, the book makes the case for the value of a constant flow of new immigrants to sustain the vitality of urban neighborhoods.
        Mr. Winnick is survived by his wife, Wilma Artus Winnick, of Great Neck; two daughters, Pamela, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and Holly, of Port Washington, N.Y.; and two grandchildren, Jane and Gregory Morril.
      