
        Thomas Appleby, the first president of the United Nations Development Corporation and a former New York City housing commissioner who focused government attention on poor neighborhoods even during the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, died on Sunday in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 82.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said Allan Talbot, a family friend.
        As president of the United Nations Development Corporation from 1969 to 1976, and again from 1981 to 1996, Mr. Appleby supervised the redevelopment of much of East 44th Street between First and Second Avenues.
        The public corporation was created by New York City and State at a time when officials of a cramped United Nations were hinting that it might relocate.
        ''Tom's vision and leadership were instrumental in the formation and planning of the corporation,'' said Jeffrey Feldman, the current executive vice president of the corporation. ''The idea was that the city should be a proper host to the U.N.''
        One result was the construction of the two 39-story green-tinted glass buildings of the United Nations Plaza Hotel -- which serves as both residential and office space for United Nations officials and workers and the missions of several member nations and as a 300-room hotel -- and of the 15-story granite and glass headquarters of Unicef.
        Mr. Appleby perhaps had a greater impact in the less affluent neighborhoods of several cities, including New York at some of its most difficult times.
        ''He was particularly effective in the housing area,'' said John E. Zucotti, the first deputy mayor in the administration of Mayor Abraham D. Beame. ''Tom laid the basis for housing programs that were introduced over the next 15 years, especially rehabilitation programs. And those programs expanded as the city's fiscal situation was resolved.''
        ''In a period of scarce resources,'' Mr. Zucotti said, ''Tom made a little money go a very long way.''
        L. Thomas Appleby was born on Jan. 10, 1924, in Waterloo, Iowa. His father, Paul H. Appleby, wrote editorials for The Des Moines Register, and was later under secretary of agriculture in the Roosevelt administration.
        In World War II, Mr. Appleby served as an Army sergeant and saw action in France and Germany, including on D-Day and at the Battle of the Bulge.
        In 1949, he graduated from Grinnell College, and in 1955 he received a master's degree in public administration from the University of Minnesota.
        On a summer break from Grinnell after his junior year, Mr. Appleby worked as a student intern for the Syracuse Housing and Planning Commission. It was his first contact with the field of housing administration.
        From 1961 to 1965, he was the housing development administrator for New Haven, and from 1965 to 1969 he was executive director of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency. In 1976, after his first stint with the United Nations corporation, Mr. Appleby was chosen by Mayor Beame to lead the city's Housing Development Administration, the forerunner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
        In an interview after his appointment, Mr. Appleby disagreed with one of the most controversial statements made by his predecessor, Roger Starr. Mr. Starr had said that the city should adopt a policy of ''planned shrinkage'' of certain slum areas, like the South Bronx, by helping accelerate the population losses already occurring in those areas. Mr. Starr saw that as an alternative to continued service cuts forced by the fiscal crisis.
        Mr. Appleby countered: ''I don't think that as a matter of city policy we should accelerate losses of population in those areas. I don't think we can turn our backs on any areas.''
        A resident of Ossining, N.Y., Mr. Appleby is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Doris Chambers; a sister, Mary Ellen Sarbaugh of Gwynedd, Pa.; a son, Paul, of Forest Hills, Queens; two daughters, Ruth Appleby of Summit, N.J., and Karen Appleby of Ossining; and three grandchildren.
        Known as a soft-spoken, detail-minded man concerned with administrative efficiency rather than as an outspoken housing policy advocate, Mr. Appleby once said that he had come into his city housing post ''with no political clout; the mayor chose me because I was a professional who he thought could do the job.''
        Asked if that meant he had great faith in his abilities, Mr. Appleby said, ''Either that or I'm dumb.''
      