
        A. Frank Carven III, who campaigned for the rights of victims of air crashes after his sister and a 9-year-old nephew were killed on Trans World Airlines Flight 800 a decade ago, died Thursday. He was 54.
        He died of pancreatic cancer at his home in Forestville, Md., his brother Jay Carven said.
        Flight 800 exploded off Long Island soon after takeoff on July 17, 1996. Mr. Carven was a co-founder and director of the Families of T.W.A. Flight 800 Association. He worked for passage of a law enacted later that year that made the National Transportation Safety Board responsible for coordinating federal assistance to families of air crash victims, and another law that modernized the Warsaw Convention, a 1929 agreement on the liability of airlines.
        He also helped to win passage of an amendment to the Death on the High Seas Act, a 1920 law that limited families' claims to the value of lost wages. The change made it easier for families of airline passengers to sue for additional damages.
        Mr. Carven described the chaos after the explosion of Flight 800, when T.W.A. was unable to tell families who was on board and said that although many government agencies were present there was no coordination. He said later that government agencies could be helpful, but only to an extent.
        In 1999, when EgyptAir Flight 990 crashed at sea, killing all 217 aboard, Mr. Carven said of the victims' relatives, ''These people are just going to fall apart, and someone needs to be there to help.'' But he added, ''It never goes away, and there's no such thing as closure.''
        The Federal Aviation Administration appointed Mr. Carven to an advisory committee for modernizing the rules on transoceanic and transpolar flights. He also served on other governmental and intergovernmental panels.
        At his death, Mr. Carven, a lawyer, was a workers' compensation commissioner for Maryland, adjudicating claims at hearings around the state. He was a former county lawyer for Harford County, Md. He also worked in private practice, for the Maryland Department of the Environment, and in the late 1980's was executive assistant to Gov. William Donald Schaefer.
        Survivors include his wife, Elizabeth Carven of Forestville; his mother, Anne Carven of Bel Air, Md.; his brothers, Jay, of Chevy Chase, Md.; Sean, of Bel Air; and Tom, of Bishopville, Md.; and an aunt, Helen Sheehan of Boston.
      