
        Rabbi Louis Jacobs, an internationally renowned scholar of Judaism whose seemingly clear path to the post of chief rabbi of the British Commonwealth was blocked by the Orthodox establishment more than 40 years ago, died on July 1 in London. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, according to a son, Ivor.
        The controversy over his blocked appointment is still alive among British Jewry and Orthodox scholarly circles worldwide. The Jewish Chronicle, a London-based weekly, often called Rabbi Jacobs ''the greatest chief rabbi we never had.'' In a survey conducted by the paper last year, readers selected Rabbi Jacobs as the ''greatest British Jew of all time,'' beating out all the chief rabbis as well as two formidable 19th-century figures, Benjamin Disraeli and Moses Montefiore.
        Rabbi Jacobs wrote more than 50 books on a wide range of subjects, including theology, the Talmud, kabbalah, ethics, Hasidism and holidays. Although they often dealt with complicated subjects, the books were praised for their clarity and accessibility.
        It was one of the rabbi's books that first got him into trouble with arbiters of Orthodoxy. In 1957, Rabbi Jacobs wrote a work of theology, ''We Have Reason to Believe,'' in which he challenged the traditional view that the first five books of the Bible, known as the Torah, were dictated by God, word by word, to Moses on Mount Sinai.
        Rabbi Jacobs argued that in light of 19th-century scholarship and archaeology such a belief was no longer tenable. Instead, he argued, the Torah was revealed over time to divinely inspired human beings. He often pointed out that his thesis was well known among scholars; what he was doing was bringing it to public attention.
        The book seemed to have no effect on his early career. He had impeccable Orthodox credentials, having been a star student at Britain's rabbinical seminaries, and he rose to be the rabbi of the large and prestigious New West End Synagogue in London.
        In 1961, Rabbi Jacobs was nominated to be principal of Jews' College, which trained rabbis and teachers for British Jews. The position was also regarded as a way station for Britain's future chief rabbis. The appointment, however, was blocked by the chief rabbi at the time, Israel Brodie, who announced that Rabbi Jacobs was unfit for the post, citing ''his published views.'' Rabbi Brodie then prohibited Rabbi Jacobs from returning to his post at the New West End Synagogue or from preaching at any congregations affiliated with the chief rabbinate's organization, the United Synagogue.
        The incident became widely known as the Jacobs Affair, and it continues to reverberate, rating a significant mention in the entry for England in The Encyclopedia Judaica. In a retrospective in The Guardian in 2004, Simon Rocker wrote: ''For some, the Jacobs Affair marked the Orthodox establishment's descent into religious intolerance. For others, the sacrifice of Jacobs was the price the United Synagogue had to pay to remain part of Orthodoxy.''
        Louis Jacobs was born on July 17, 1920, in Manchester to a working-class Jewish family. At 14 he was apprenticed to a printer, but he pleaded with his parents to let him return to school. He finished Manchester Central High School, then went to the Manchester Talmudical College, where he received his rabbinic ordination. It was not until he was working as a rabbi that he attended a university, eventually getting a Ph.D. in history from University College London.
        After Rabbi Jacobs was barred from the Orthodox rabbinate, several members of the New West End Synagogue established a new congregation, the New London Synagogue, which was unaffiliated with United Synagogue. Rabbi Jacobs served there until he retired in 2000.
        Rabbi Jacobs, with his beard and modest dress, was committed to Orthodox religious practice, including observance of the Sabbath and the kosher laws. He said he never intended to start a religious movement, but one grew up around him. It is known as Masorti, Hebrew for traditional, and it is similar to the Conservative branch of Judaism in the United States, but much smaller.
        In addition to being a widely read author, Rabbi Jacobs was a popular lecturer who laced his talks with anecdotes, erudition and wit. He was as comfortable with Maimonides and the Baal Shem Tov as he was with Shakespeare and Shaw. He was a visiting professor at Harvard Divinity School from 1985 to 1986 and was a visiting professor at Lancaster University beginning in 1987.
        His wife of 61 years, Sophie, known as Shula, died last year. He is survived by two sons, Ivor and David, both of London, and a daughter, Naomi, who lives in Jerusalem; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      