
        Rupert Pole, one of the two simultaneous -- and simultaneously unwitting -- husbands of the novelist, erotic adventurer and copiously confessional diarist Anaïs Nin, was found dead on July 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.
        Mr. Pole apparently died in his sleep, said his half brother, Eric Lloyd Wright, a grandson of the architect Frank Lloyd Wright.
        As Nin's literary executor, Mr. Pole oversaw the posthumous publication of four unexpurgated volumes of her diaries, which chronicled her affairs with an international cast of luminaries, including the novelist Henry Miller; the critic Edmund Wilson; the psychologist Otto Rank, who happened to be her therapist; and the Spanish composer Joaquín Nin, who happened to be her father.
        Originally released by Nin in seven heavily bowdlerized volumes, the diaries made her a feminist idol -- even in their watered-down form -- after the first one appeared in 1966. The unexpurgated edition, published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich under the rubric ''A Journal of Love,'' comprises ''Henry and June'' (1986), ''Incest'' (1992), ''Fire'' (1995) and ''Nearer the Moon'' (1996).
        Mr. Pole, who was trained as an actor, worked as a forest ranger and later taught science at a Los Angeles middle school. Technically, he and Nin were married only from 1955 to 1966. But he was by all accounts her devoted companion for three decades, from 1947, when they first locked eyes in a Manhattan elevator, until her death from cancer in 1977.
        For all that time, Nin was married to her first husband, Hugh Guiler, whom she wed in 1923. (A banker, Guiler later became an experimental filmmaker under the pseudonym Ian Hugo.) For years, she performed a precarious balancing act, dividing her time between Mr. Pole's spartan cabin in the Sierra Madre and Guiler's opulent apartment in New York.
        If Mr. Pole knew of Nin's double life -- and for years he apparently did not -- he did not object much.
        ''He was sort of a great cipher,'' Deirdre Bair, the author of ''Anaïs Nin: A Biography'' (Putnam's, 1995), said in a telephone interview on Friday. ''He was stunningly handsome. Incredibly shy. Not really very bright. And just incredibly self-effacing. She was his star: everything radiated around her, and he loved being in her background.''
        Rupert Pole was born in Los Angeles on Feb. 18, 1919; his father, Reginald, was a well-known Shakespearean actor. Rupert's parents divorced when he was a boy, and his mother married Lloyd Wright, a son of Frank Lloyd Wright.
        Rupert, who sang and played the viola and guitar, earned a bachelor's degree in music from Harvard in 1940 and embarked on a theatrical career. An early marriage, to Jane Lloyd-Jones, ended in divorce.
        When he met Nin, Mr. Pole had recently finished a run on Broadway in a supporting role in ''The Duchess of Malfi.'' He was 28, she 44. He was smitten, but was planning to return to the West. He asked Nin to accompany him, and she did. He assumed she was divorced. She did not disabuse him.
        Mr. Pole earned a B.S. in forestry from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1950 and went to work for the United States Forest Service.
        For years, Nin shuttled between her lover on the West Coast and her husband on the East Coast, spending a few months with one before decamping for the other. She told Mr. Pole that writing assignments beckoned in New York. She told Guiler that she needed rest cures -- many of them -- in the clean California air.
        Nin never divorced Guiler. She appreciated his unswerving devotion. (Guiler tolerated her many affairs, including the one with Mr. Pole, though he may not have known of their marriage, Ms. Bair said.) She also appreciated his money, which helped finance her life in California with Mr. Pole.
        Mr. Pole, meanwhile, was begging Nin to marry him, and one day in 1955 he finally wore her down. According to their marriage certificate, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, they were married on March 17, 1955, by a justice of the peace in Quartzsite, Ariz., before two witnesses.
        In 1966, fearing that her newfound literary renown would bring her bigamous life to light, Nin had the marriage to Mr. Pole annulled. But she continued her two-pronged living arrangements and, in the mid-1970's, when cancer made it impossible for her to travel to New York, moved in with Mr. Pole full time.
        Besides his half brother, Mr. Wright, an architect in Malibu, Calif., Mr. Pole is survived by his companion, Kazuko Sugisaki, a translator of many of Nin's works into Japanese. His fellow husband, Mr. Guiler, with whom Mr. Pole became cordial after Nin's death, died in 1985.
        In an interview with The Telegraph of London in 1998, Mr. Pole sought to put into words his long, unorthodox and adoring association with Nin.
        ''I was jealous, yes,'' he said. ''But I played the same games as Hugo, pretending to believe her. In a way, I did not care. My idea of marriage is different. We had a wonderful, deep relationship, and that is what counted. I was not interested in conventional women, or in conventional marriage.''
      