
        Alvin Cooperman, whose entertainment achievements included holding high posts at the Shubert Organization, at Madison Square Garden and at NBC television as well as producing on his own, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 83.
        The cause was complications of a severe case of shingles, his wife, Marilyn, said.
        During a long and varied career, Mr. Cooperman matched plays and Broadway theaters; produced plays, movies and television shows; and began a regional sports network, among other accomplishments.
        When he and a colleague secured the rights to a play Edward Albee was adapting from Vladimir Nabokov's ''Lolita'' in 1978, The New York Times began to list his achievements, before simply summarizing: ''other colorful things too numerous to mention here.''
        Mr. Cooperman was born in Brooklyn and began working as an office boy for the Shuberts at 16, putting in 10 to 14 hours a day, 7 days a week. His aunt Gladys, who worked in the accounting department, got him the job.
        He attended New York University during the evenings, but left because at 16 he was intimidated by the older students. He eventually got a degree in journalism from N.Y.U., his wife said.
        Mr. Cooperman wrote in Television Quarterly in 2005 that he felt he needed a different experience after working at the same place for 12 years. In 1951 he got a job with NBC Television as a production manager.
        He produced several successful series for the network in the 1950's and early 60's. One was ''Shirley Temple's Fairy Tales.'' Its first offering was ''Beauty and the Beast,'' starring Charlton Heston, Claire Bloom and E. G. Marshall. A review in The Times said it carried ''the glow of persuasive credibility.''
        Mr. Cooperman was also a producer of ''The Untouchables'' in 1962-63, its fourth season. While working in television, he found time in 1953 to help produce a play, ''Masquerade,'' a comedy of modern Italy starring Veronica Lake, but it failed in Philadelphia before making it to Broadway.
        Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, said that after his company's longtime booker died in 1963, he lured Mr. Cooperman away from television to take on the job. It involved poring over hundreds of scripts and buying the rights to those he considered the best and matching them with the 22 theaters the company then had in New York and elsewhere. Among the shows Mr. Cooperman booked were ''Love,'' ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and ''Cabaret.''
        ''He had a good, winning way of dealing with creative people and with producers,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. ''He had good taste. These are the essential ingredients.''
        Foster Hirsch, who wrote a book about the Shubert Organization, ''The Boys from Syracuse: The Shuberts' Theatrical Empire,'' said that Mr. Cooperman helped to steer the company through a difficult time. He said yesterday that Mr. Cooperman, as an aide to Lawrence Shubert Lawrence Jr., then the chairman, was instrumental in ensuring the company's survival.
        Mr. Hirsch said that Mr. Cooperman, whose title was executive director, was ''a very important figure in America in American theater, no doubt about it.''
        In 1967 NBC rehired Mr. Cooperman as vice president of special programs. One of his productions was ''Damn Yankees,'' which some found odd because he had grown up rooting for the Brooklyn Dodgers and then later for the New York Giants.
        The next year, Madison Square Garden, newly moved to its current location on 33rd and Seventh Avenue, named him executive vice president and director. He tried to enhance the arena's entertainment value through presentations produced with others and to extend its reach by way of television. In October 1969 he started the MSG Network to carry Garden events, making it the first regional sports network in North America and one of the first of its kind anywhere.
        He brought rodeo back to the Garden, started Friday and Saturday night dances and pushed the arena's proudest attractions, like the New York Knicks, who won their first National Basketball Association championship in the 1969-70 season.
        He returned to producing, and he and Judith de Paul produced two live shows from NBC's famed Studio 8H in Rockefeller Center, one on Jerome Robbins and one on Arturo Toscanini, who once conducted there. Both shows won Emmys.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cooperman is survived by his daughters Margot Ford Cooperman of Manhattan, Audrey Cooperman of Manhattan, and Karen Puro of Los Angeles; his sister, Lillian Cantor of Atlantic Beach, N.Y.; and one grandson.
        Mr. Cooperman recalled that his first assignment for NBC in 1951 was ''The Texaco Star Theater,'' the network's No. 1 show, starring Milton Berle. He met Mr. Berle in Studio 6B in the RCA Building of Rockefeller Center, where the show was telecast.
        The man known as Mr. Television looked Mr. Cooperman up and down, and puffed on his cigar. He finally said, ''I hope you're better than the idiot we had last season, kid.''
      