
        Nathan Brodsky, a Manhattan real estate developer who got his start by rehabilitating small, old buildings in the West Village and later dotted the skyline with sleek residential towers, died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 89.
        The death was announced by Mr. Brodsky's son and business partner, Daniel Brodsky.
        Mr. Brodsky was the founder of the Brodsky Organization, which currently owns and manages more than 50 Manhattan buildings, with about 7,000 apartments. The buildings include 1 Columbus Place at 59th Street and Columbus Avenue, and South Park Tower at 60th Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues.
        Through 60 years in real estate, Mr. Brodsky kept his buildings comparatively affordable. One-bedroom apartments at the 49-story West End Towers, a Brodsky building that opened in 1992 at West 61st Street, currently rent for about $2,500 a month -- relatively reasonable in the Manhattan market.
        ''He lived through the Depression,'' Daniel Brodsky said of his father. ''He was afraid of superluxury because it was a limited market; he was much more interested in attracting a larger market.''
        Nathan Brodsky, known to friends and family by his nickname, Jon, was born on June 14, 1917. His parents, Morris and Bella Brodsky, immigrants from Russia, lived in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Midtown Manhattan and eked out a living as tailors. Mr. Brodsky, who dropped out of the University of Wisconsin, served in the Navy during World War II.
        After the war, Mr. Brodsky started a small real estate brokerage firm, Village Realty. One by one, he bought about 30 small buildings in the West Village, renovated them and rented the apartments for about $40 to $50 a month. In the late 1960's, Mr. Brodsky began buying old residential hotels, most of them facing bankruptcy; he renovated them and converted them to rentals. Among them were the Carteret Hotel on West 23rd Street, the Fifth Avenue Hotel at 9th Street and the Beaux Arts on East 44th Street. In those days, a studio with a view at the Carteret rented for $125.
        In 1981, Mr. Brodsky and his son formed the Brodsky Organization and moved into construction of what would eventually be 12 apartment towers in Manhattan.
        Besides his son Daniel, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 68 years, Shirley Markowitz Brodsky; a daughter, Thea Amr, of Arlington, Va.; his sister, Ruth Leopold, of New Haven; six grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      