
        Dr. Jonathan R. Spicehandler, a specialist in infectious diseases who led research and development for the drug maker Schering-Plough, died Sunday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 57.
        Dr. Robert J. Spiegel, chief medical officer for Schering-Plough, said the cause of death was cancer.
        During 24 years at Schering-Plough, Dr. Spicehandler was involved in the development of some of the company's most significant pharmaceutical products, including interferon, an anticancer and antiviral therapy; Claritin, a nonsedating antihistamine; and the cholesterol-lowering medicines Zetia and Vytorin.
        Dr. Spiegel said that Dr. Spicehandler came to Schering during the early days of the company's development of interferon and became enthusiastic about its potential.
        ''Nobody knew whether this would ever turn into anything or this was a fool's errand,'' he said. ''With Dr. Spicehandler's interest in it, he was a champion of continuing development to see what it would do.'' The drug that resulted, Intron A, ultimately became a therapy for hepatitis and some forms of cancer.
        Dr. Spicehandler was also involved in the subsequent development of a ribavirin, used with interferon to achieve a better response in hepatitis C patients, Dr. Spiegel said.
        ''Now over 50 percent of patients can really be treated and eradicate the virus from their systems,'' he said.
        Dr. Spicehandler was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 8, 1948, the son of Amiel Spicehandler, an accountant, and Florence Svransky Spicehandler. After a childhood in Oceanside and Lawrence, N.Y., he graduated from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1970 and received his medical degree in 1974 from St. Louis University School of Medicine in Missouri.
        He trained in his specialty, infectious diseases, at N.Y.U. and Bellevue Hospital Center before joining the pharmaceutical company Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.
        Dr. Spicehandler joined Schering-Plough in 1982 as senior director for immunology. He served in a variety of capacities with the company, including vice president for operations and vice president for biological research, before his appointment as president of the company's research institute in 1993.
        From 2002 until his retirement in June, he was chairman of the institute, serving as a scientific adviser to the Schering-Plough operating committee and management.
        In addition to his mother, Dr. Spicehandler is survived by his wife, Debra Friedlander Spicehandler, and four children, Daniel, Alexandra, Benjamin and Rebecca.
        Dr. Spicehandler is also survived by his brother, David Spicehandler of Bedford, N.Y., and his sister, Dr. Debra Ann Spicehandler of Pleasantville, N.Y.
      