
        Sig Shore, an independent producer whose low-budget 1972 film ''Superfly'' was among the first of the so-called blaxploitation movies of the 1970's and gave its name to the flamboyant style that was a hallmark of the genre, died on Aug. 17 in Stamford, Conn. He was 87.
        The cause was respiratory failure due to chronic pneumonia, his wife, Barbara, said.
        ''Superfly'' starred Ron O'Neal and was directed by Gordon Parks Jr., whose father had directed the first such black-oriented hit action film, ''Shaft'' (1971).
        In a New York Times review in 1972, Vincent Canby wrote, ''The one recent black movie that has any original distinction as a film is 'Superfly.' '' Mr. Canby went on to say that ''Superfly,'' which cost less than $100,000 and grossed more than $30 million, was a ''tough, unsentimental melodrama of the superior sort that recognizes fate in circumstance, and circumstances in character.''
        The film, released by Warner Brothers, was aided by a musical score by Curtis Mayfield, whose soundtrack sold more than a million copies. Another hit soundtrack, this one by Earth, Wind and Fire, came from Mr. Shore's 1975 film, ''That's the Way of the World,'' which he also directed. Other films that Mr. Shore produced, and in some cases also directed, were ''Superfly T.N.T.'' (with a screenplay by Alex Haley), ''Sudden Death,'' ''The Survivalist'' and ''The Return of Superfly.''
        The commercial success of ''Superfly'' was a surprise, since it was Mr. Shore's first venture into film production, and to make it he had to rely on the largess of friends in Stamford, where he lived for more than 50 years, working mainly out of an office at home. He was working with Warner Brothers on a remake of ''Superfly'' when he became ill.
        Before becoming a producer and director, Mr. Shore imported some Russian films at the height of the cold war. Other films he imported included ''Black Jesus,'' ''The 400 Blows'' and ''Hiroshima Mon Amour.'' Before working in movies, Mr. Shore was advertising director for Dance magazine and later started ad agencies in San Francisco and New York. A native of East Harlem raised in the Bronx, he earned a basketball scholarship to George Washington University. He served in the Army Air Corps as a navigator in World War II, becoming a first lieutenant.
        Mr. Shore is survived by his wife of more than 50 years, Barbara Shore; five children, Lindsay Ulmann of Pound Ridge, N.Y., Steven Shore of Westport, Conn., Michael Shore of Trumbull, Conn., Richard Shore of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Suzy Sandberg of Fairfield, Conn.; and nine grandchildren.
      