
        Maynard Ferguson, whose soaring trumpeting reached the instrument's highest ranges and propelled a musical career of more than 60 years, died Wednesday in Ventura, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause was kidney and liver failure, said his personal manager, Steve Schankman.
        Mr. Ferguson had a stratospheric style all his own. He possessed ''a tremendous breadth of sound and an incomparable tone,'' said Lew Soloff, a prominent trumpeter who started out with Mr. Ferguson in the mid-1960's. The writer Frank Conroy once noted, ''He soared above everything, past high C, into the next octave and a half, where his tone and timbre became unique'' -- sometimes reaching, as Mr. Schankman said, ''notes so high that only dogs could hear them.''
        He pleased far more crowds than critics. John S. Wilson, reviewing Mr. Ferguson's big band at the 1959 Newport Jazz Festival for The New York Times, called it ''screaming'' and ''strident.'' Yet that same year the readers of Down Beat magazine voted the band the world's second-best, outranked only by Count Basie's.
        Today, record collectors pay hundreds of dollars for rare Fergusons. ''Very few rock superstars can command that kind of prices for used CD's or records,'' said John Himes, who runs the Maynard Ferguson Album Emporium in Cypress, Calif.
        Mr. Ferguson's bands toured ceaselessly, across Asia, Europe and the United States, stopping often at high schools and colleges, where he served as both entertainer and educator. At his last stand -- a six-night booking at the Blue Note in New York, which ended July 23 -- every show sold out. The next week, he completed the last of his roughly 100 recordings; it is to be released this fall.
        Walter Maynard Ferguson was born on May 4, 1928, in Verdun, Canada, now part of the city of Montreal. Both his parents were teachers and school administrators. His mother, a former concert violinist, taught him to play at an early age. His father stored school orchestra instruments in the basement, and Mr. Ferguson schooled himself on woodwinds and brass. By 15, he was out of school and into nightclubs, seven days a week.
        He came to national attention in 1950 with a four-minute televised cavalcade on ''The Ed Sullivan Show,'' backed by Stan Kenton's big band. After three years with the brass-heavy Kenton band, he did studio work and then, in 1956, formed his own band, which he led for a decade.
        After a trip or two to Timothy Leary's consciousness-altering community in Millbrook, N.Y., Mr. Ferguson dissolved his band in 1967 and moved to India for a year. He began a new band in London in 1969, fusing rock and pop into its repertory. His stock with jazz purists fell as he played his versions of hits by the Beatles and Stevie Wonder. But his popularity skyrocketed.
        Mr. Ferguson's performance of Leoncavallo's ''Pagliacci,'' an operatic warhorse turned into a disco anthem, was heard at the closing ceremony of the 1976 Olympic Games in Montreal and seen by millions of television viewers. His version of ''Gonna Fly Now,'' the indelible theme from the movie ''Rocky,'' was nominated for a Grammy in 1977.
        Mr. Ferguson won his homeland's highest civilian honor, the Order of Canada, in 2005. His wife of 53 years, Flo Ferguson, died that year. He is survived by four daughters, Kim, Lisa, Corby and Wilder, and two grandchildren.
        Unlike many bandleaders, Mr. Ferguson rode a bus from stage to stage with his musicians. His tour manager, Ed Sargent, said that he preferred to travel in ''a million-dollar rock 'n' roll coach'' with his sidemen.
        Mr. Schankman, his manager, said that Mr. Ferguson had a cross-country tour set to begin in a few weeks, and pleaded from his deathbed for the shows to go on.
      