
        Yen Do, the founder of the largest-circulation Vietnamese-language daily newspaper in the United States and a guiding force in the assimilation of refugees after the Vietnam War, died on Aug. 17 in the community known as Little Saigon in Westminster, Calif., about 30 miles south of Los Angeles. He was 65.
        The cause was complications of diabetes and kidney disease, his family said.
        He founded his newspaper, Nguoi Viet Daily News, in 1978, three years after fleeing Saigon, as a sort of cultural road map for his fellow refugees.
        As editor and publisher, he built it from a small, hand-distributed weekly into a multisection daily with a circulation of 17,800, spawning several magazines and expanding into broadcast and Internet journalism.
        The newspaper became an influential voice for moderation in the factionalized world of Vietnamese émigrés. Both in his newspaper and in his own life, Mr. Do sought to bring refugees together in a spirit of mutual help.
        The Nguoi Viet building became a cultural hub where artists, writers and displaced intellectuals shared and exhibited their work. Mr. Do shared much of his profits with his staff through stock options and helped newly arrived refugees with advice, job placement and often with personal loans or through a social fund he created at the newspaper.
        He was born in Saigon in 1941, the third of five children, to parents who owned a funeral flower shop. He became involved in student politics and as editor of his high school newspaper printed and distributed clandestine leaflets opposing the policies of French colonial rule.
        This led to his expulsion from high school, and he spent years studying on his own in libraries before earning his diploma at the age of 22. He was politically active in college, helping to organize street demonstrations.
        In the 1960's, he became a war correspondent, covering some of the most dangerous battles and, in the final weeks, assisting correspondents from major American newspapers.
        With the North Vietnamese Army on the outskirts of Saigon in April 1975, he boarded one of the last aircraft out of the country together with his wife and three small children. (A fourth child was born in the United States.)
        He arrived a few days later at the Camp Pendleton military base in San Diego at the age of 34, with just a few dollars in his pocket, to start his life over again.
        He is survived by his wife, Loan; three daughters, Anh, Dao and Lin; and a son, Tung.
        Correction:  August 30, 2006, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Thursday about Yen Do, founder of the largest-circulation Vietnamese daily newspaper in the United States, misstated his place of death. It was Fountain Valley, Calif., not Westminster.
      