
        Roger Donoghue, a prizefighter who could have been a contender until his blows killed an opponent and something inside himself (but far from everything), then moved on to teach Marlon Brando to box for the movie ''On the Waterfront,'' died on Sunday in Greenport, N.Y. He was 75.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Fay Moore, said.
        Mr. Donoghue could walk into a New York saloon, shadowbox the length of the bar and call the men ''champs'' and the women ''dolls'' -- all the while exuding the ebullient charm of the successful beer salesman he was for much of his life.
        He was also the person who told Norman Mailer the joke whose punch line became the title of his novel ''Tough Guys Don't Dance.'' He taught James Dean boxing techniques for a movie that was to be based on Mr. Donoghue's own life. He wrote a musical about his friends Guy Lombardo and Louis Armstrong (and Al Capone, whom he didn't know), but never sold it.
        The writer Budd Schulberg, whom Mr. Donoghue had befriended years before Mr. Schulberg wrote ''On the Waterfront'' (1954), credited him with partly inspiring the celebrated line of Terry Malloy, played by Brando: ''I could have been a contender.''
        That had been Mr. Donoghue's real-life reply to Mr. Schulberg's question, ''Could you have been a champion?'' (Mr. Donoghue was giving a judgment on the facts, while Malloy's line reflected existential disappointment.)
        To hear Mr. Donoghue tell it, Marlon Brando just might have been a contender himself. ''I've got him shooting straight jabs, and he's already learned to hook off the jab,'' he said after the first lesson, according to Mr. Schulberg in a widely syndicated article. ''I can make a hell of a middleweight out of this kid.''
        ''Roger,'' Mr. Schulberg replied, ''just let us get through this movie with him in it. Then you can have him back and take it from there.''
        Roger Donoghue was born in Yonkers on Nov. 20, 1930, the son of a first-generation Irish immigrant who drove a taxi and often fell on hard times. He graduated from Saunders Trades and Technical High School in 1948.
        He began boxing in a ring in the back of a pool hall and won 29 of 31 amateur bouts. He turned professional at 18 and won 25 of his first 27 pro fights. His purses paid for college for his brother and sister.
        On Aug. 29, 1951, he fought for the first time in Madison Square Garden, in a preliminary event. He resented having to fight a man he had knocked out just two weeks earlier, George Flores, who like him was 20.
        ''Give me somebody better for my first shot in the Garden,'' Mr. Donoghue complained, according to a column by Bill Gallo in The Daily News in 1995.
        Forty-six seconds into the eighth round, Mr. Donoghue, a middleweight, knocked out his opponent, who died on Sept. 3. As a direct result, New York State began to require fighters to rest at least 30 days after being knocked out.
        Mr. Donoghue, who gave his winnings to the Flores family, sometimes said the death was just part of the fight game, and sometimes said more. Dave Anderson, in a column in The New York Times in 1979, wrote of the time a youngster told Mr. Donoghue: ''You killed a man. I'm going to tell everybody.''
        ''You don't have to tell everybody,'' he replied softly. ''They already know.''
        After that fight, Mr. Donoghue fought halfheartedly for a couple of bouts, hung up his gloves and began promoting Rheingold Beer at sporting events. Soon Elia Kazan, director of ''On the Waterfront,'' hired him at $75 a day to coach Brando.
        Mr. Donoghue's contributions transcended sessions at Stillman's Gym and roadwork in Central Park. He came up with the idea of putting little plastic tubes in Brando's nose to represent scar tissue.
        Mr. Kazan later sent Mr. Donoghue to Hollywood to persuade the mercurial Brando to stop insulting gossip columnists, then had him baby-sit Brando at awards dinners.
        Mr. Donoghue, meanwhile, made more movie friends, including the director Nicholas Ray, who hired him as an assistant. The two planned a movie based on Mr. Donoghue's life, starring James Dean, to whom Mr. Donoghue taught boxing on the set of Mr. Ray's ''Rebel Without a Cause.'' But the project died with Dean.
        In 1961, when Mr. Donoghue was visiting his friend Norman Mailer in Provincetown, Mass. Mr. Mailer introduced him to Faye Moore, who paints horses, and the two married in 1963. She and Mr. Donoghue's sister, Eleanor Alexander of Westchester County, survive him.
        He long lived at the National Arts Club, where he served on the board and relaxed watching scratchy videos of his fights.
        In the introduction to his novel ''Tough Guys Don't Dance'' (1984), Mailer thanked Mr. Donoghue for the anecdote that resulted in the title, but did not reveal it.
        It came from a joke Mr. Donoghue told him: Frank Costello, the Murder Inc. honcho, and his gorgeous girlfriend greet three champion boxers in the Stork Club. Costello demands that each, in turn, dance with the woman, and each nervously complies. The last, Willy Pep, suggests that Mr. Costello dance.
        The title is the punch line.
      