
        Richard L. Fisher, a real estate developer who supported philanthropic causes ranging from law enforcement to animal welfare to helping the families of American soldiers, died on Saturday in Manhattan, a family spokesman said. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The cause of death was cancer, said the spokesman, Bill White, who is also the president of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, where Mr. Fisher served as a board member and benefactor.
        Mr. Fisher was a senior partner at Fisher Brothers, one of New York's most esteemed family-owned development firms. The company was formed in the 1920's by his father, Martin, and his uncles, Zachary and Larry.
        For the past 20 years, Mr. Fisher led the firm's financial and asset management operations, helping the company broker deals that included the acquisition of a nine-acre parcel south of the United Nations, one of the city's largest available development sites, and the expansion of the Securities and Exchange Commission headquarters in Washington.
        Mr. Fisher was a founding member of the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund, which helps the families of American soldiers killed in the line of duty. He helped the fund raise $44 million in nine months for the construction of a physical rehabilitation center for wounded veterans in San Antonio, Tex., which is set to open in January, Mr. White said.
        Mr. Fisher was a trustee of Lincoln Center and a creator and sponsor of its American Songbook series. He also supported the New York State Troopers Police Benevolent Association, UJA-Federation of New York and the Animal Medical Center in Manhattan, where he was a board member.
        Martin L. Edelman, a family lawyer and one of Mr. Fisher's closest friends said that in his spare time, Mr. Fisher enjoyed model trains and collected stamps and Winston Churchill memorabilia.
        Mr. Fisher had a master's degree in English literature from the University of Pennsylvania, where he served as a trustee for 11 years.
        He was also a trustee of his high school alma mater, Horace Mann, and an adjunct professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University.
        His survivors include his wife, Kristen; his children, Hadley, Winston and Alexandra; his mother, Emily Fisher Landau; two grandchildren; a brother and two sisters.
        A private memorial service will be held.
      