
        Ralph Schoenstein, a humorist who was a commentator on National Public Radio's ''All Things Considered,'' a prolific contributor to magazines and newspapers, the author of 18 books, and a ghostwriter whose works included Bill Cosby's ''Fatherhood,'' died on Thursday in Philadelphia. He was 73 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was complications following heart surgery, said his daughter Jill Feldman.
        The son of a Pulitzer Prize-winning city editor of the Hearst Corporation's hard-hitting New York Journal-American, Mr. Schoenstein was a gentle observer who usually turned his attention to family life and a lost New York. His first book, written after his graduation from Columbia University and a stint in the Army, was ''The Block'' (1960), a portrait of his childhood on the Upper West Side and a look at the changes in his neighborhood since he had left home.
        He returned to the subject in the late 1970's with a biography of his father, ''Citizen Paul,'' republished in 1995 as ''Superman and Son.''
        But Mr. Schoenstein was not only interested in the past. In April 1968, the first of his series of humorous undercover-reporting articles appeared in the debut issue of New York magazine.
        That summer, his undercover work, this time for ABC News, landed him in jail for impersonating a police officer at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. He remained in trouble with the authorities when the White House tried to kill his book on President Lyndon B. Johnson's dogs, an episode he wrote about in 1969 in ''My Year in the White House Dog House,'' a book illustrated by Al Hirschfeld.
        He also took up the newly publishable subject of sex in 1970, presenting a not-so-scientific survey of the sexual proclivities of residents of Yonkers for the first issue of National Lampoon.
        His friendship with the staff of National Lampoon later resulted in a nod in the film ''Animal House.'' The character played by Peter Riegert, Donald (Boon) Schoenstein, was named for him.
        Ralph Samuel Schoenstein (pronounced SHO-en-steen) was born on May 29, 1933, in Manhattan. In addition to his daughter Ms. Feldman, who lives in Princeton, he is survived by his wife, Judith; his daughters Eve-Lynn Schefer and Lori Schoenstein, both of Manhattan; three grandchildren; and a sister, Shira Stein, of Manhattan.
        Mr. Schoenstein's many books include ''Yes, My Darling Daughters: Adventures in Fathering'' (1976); ''The I-Hate-Preppies Handbook,'' a best seller in 1981; and ''Toilet Trained for Yale: Adventures in 21st-Century Parenting'' (2002).
        But his most widely read book was one that did not even carry his name: ''Fatherhood,'' Bill Cosby's No. 1 best seller of 1987. Mr. Schoenstein wrote the follow-up, ''Time Flies'' (1988), as well as two more books for Mr. Cosby.
        He was also the ghostwriter of Joan Rivers's ''Bouncing Back: I've Survived Everything and I Mean Everything and You Can Too!'' (1997) and Ed McMahon's more tersely titled ''Here's Johnny!'' (2005).
        But Mr. Schoenstein's name did appear on hundreds of articles throughout his career, including in The New York Times, The Saturday Evening Post, Playboy and dozens of other newspapers and magazines; as a young man, he wrote a column for The Journal-American. In the mid-1960's he was a commentator on the ''Today'' program on NBC and on CBS-TV in New York.
        His radio commentary on ''All Things Considered'' ran for nearly 10 years; his final piece on the program was broadcast last year.
      