
        Gerald Green, a best-selling author and screenwriter whose most famous novel, ''The Last Angry Man,'' was the basis for the 1959 film starring Paul Muni as an altruistic doctor in a downtrodden Brooklyn neighborhood, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 84 and lived in New Canaan, Conn., and Boca Raton, Fla.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Marlene.
        Mr. Green, who wrote nearly 20 novels and several works of nonfiction, was also known for his screenplay for the NBC television miniseries ''Holocaust'' (1978), for which he received an Emmy Award. His novel of the same title, derived from the screenplay and published by Bantam Books that year, sold more than two million copies and earned Mr. Green the Dag Hammarskjold International Prize in 1979.
        Among Mr. Green's other novels adapted for the screen was his first, ''His Majesty O'Keefe,'' (Scribner, 1950), written with Lawrence Klingman. The 1954 movie, about a sea captain stranded in the South Pacific, starred Burt Lancaster.
        A former writer and producer at NBC News, Mr. Green was also a creator of the ''Today'' show, first broadcast in 1952.
        Gerald Greenberg was born in Brooklyn on April 8, 1922. (Mr. Green shortened his name as an adult.) His father, Samuel Greenberg, was a doctor in the Brownsville section there; he would inspire the selfless character, if not the cantankerous temperament, of Sam Abelman, the protagonist of ''The Last Angry Man'' (Scribner, 1956).
        Mr. Green earned a bachelor's degree from Columbia in 1942 and a master's in journalism there in 1947. From 1942 to 1946, he served with the Army in Europe. After working as a writer for the International News Service, he joined NBC in 1950 and remained there until the mid-1960's.
        In 1950, Mr. Green married Marie Pomposelli; the marriage ended with her death in 1979. Besides his wife, the former Marlene Eagle, whom he married in 1980, Mr. Green is survived by three children from his first marriage, Nancy Wohl of Williamsville, N.Y.; Theodore Green of New Rochelle, N.Y.; and David Green of Sugar Land, Tex.; three stepchildren, Jane Worth of Dunedin, New Zealand, Julie Cardo of Boca Raton and David Eagle of Baltimore; and 20 grandchildren.
        In July 1979 the West German Parliament voted to revoke the statute of limitations on murder, allowing the prosecution of Nazi war criminals to continue indefinitely. Though similar proposals had been debated for years, ''Holocaust,'' which had recently been broadcast there, was widely credited with having solidified public opinion.
      