
        Rainer Barzel, a power in postwar West German politics and a stalwart of the center-right Christian Democratic party who nearly brought down Chancellor Willy Brandt, lost a bid to succeed him and years later fell from high office in what turned out to be an undeserved scandal, died in Munich on Saturday. He was 82 and lived in Munich.
        The death was announced by the party, now the senior partner in Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition cabinet. According to German news media reports, his death followed a long illness.
        The drama surrounding the aborted attempt to unseat Brandt and the rumor that East Germany had used bribery in the attempt figured in Michael Frayn's 2003 play ''Democracy,'' which had well-reviewed productions in London and on Broadway.
        Rainer Candidus Barzel, who was born in East Prussia and was a Luftwaffe lieutenant in World War II, received a law degree from the University of Cologne in 1949 and entered the state civil service in North Rhine-Westphalia in West Germany, then under Allied occupation.
        He worked in the state ministry for federal affairs until 1956; by then he had become active in state politics as a delegate to the Bundesrat, the federal council representing the German states.
        In 1957 he entered the Bundestag, the federal German Parliament, which was reconstituted in 1949. He became one of its most influential figures, remaining a member until 1987, three years after his sudden resignation as president of the Bundestag, a position ranking just below that of chancellor.
        Mr. Barzel was cabinet minister for all-German affairs in the early 1960's but soon emerged as a key player in his party's perennial contest for supremacy with its chief rival, the left-of-center Social Democrats.
        While his Christian Democratic Union at first fielded leaders like Konrad Adenauer, West Germany's legendary first chancellor, and Ludwig Erhard, the wizard of the German economic miracle, the party eventually had to cede pre-eminence to the Social Democrats, led by Chancellors Brandt, Helmut Schmidt and, most recently, Gerhard Schröder.
        Rainer Barzel was in the thick of those partisan wars as a leader and strategist of the Christian Democrats in the Bundestag. He was chairman of their parliamentary group for 10 years, starting in 1963, and until 1982 was variously chairman of the foreign and economic affairs committees, coordinator for French-German affairs and minister for inter-German affairs.
        A champion of German reunification, he categorically opposed Brandt's feelers, as chancellor at the height of the cold war, toward easing relations with the East German regime and the Soviet bloc. He feared that Brandt's policy, known as Ostpolitik, would perpetuate the division of East and West Germany.
        Mr. Barzel marshaled the opposition for a no-confidence vote in the Brandt government in 1972, which narrowly failed.
        The East German secret service chief, Markus Wolf, subsequently asserted that the Communist government had skewed the outcome by bribing at least one Christian Democrat in the Bundestag to prevent Brandt's downfall that day.
        Later that year, Mr. Barzel failed once again, when he ran as his party's candidate for the chancellorship in a parliamentary election, called early. Brandt stayed in office, prompting Mr. Barzel to resign as chairman of the Christian Democrats.
        In 1983, after Helmut Kohl, his party's new standard-bearer, was elected chancellor, the Bundestag chose Mr. Barzel as its president, a position akin to speaker of the House and second only to the chancellor himself.
        He resigned when his name became linked to the sprawling Flick Affair, a business bribery scandal with which, he later proved, he had had no involvement.
        Twice widowed, Mr. Barzel also lost a daughter, his only child, in 1977.
        In 1997, he married Ute Cremer, an actress, who survives him, according to German news reports.
        Correction:  September 11, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Aug. 30 about Rainer Barzel, a conservative political power in postwar West Germany, misstated the constitutional rank of one office he held. As president of the Bundestag, somewhat akin to the speaker of the United States House of Representatives, he ranked just below the federal president, who is the head of state, and not the chancellor, who is the chief of government.
      