
        Lawrence Sacharow, an Obie Award-winning director and a pioneer of biographical theater, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Anya Sacharow.
        From the early 1960's, Mr. Sacharow was an active director of Off and Off Off Broadway productions, winning an Obie for his production of Len Jenkin's ''Five of Us.'' Much of his success came from an association with Edward Albee; Mr. Sacharow directed ''Beckett/Albee'' at the Century Theater in 2003 and won a Lucille Lortel Award in 1994 for his direction of Mr. Albee's ''Three Tall Women'' at the Vineyard Theater.
        ''Women'' came to New York from the River Arts Repertory in Woodstock, N.Y., where Mr. Sacharow had directed the 1992 American premiere. As artistic director of River Arts Rep, which he founded in 1979, Mr. Sacharow also directed the American premieres of ''Viva Detroit,'' by Derek Walcott and ''Hunting Cockroaches'' by Janusz Glowacki.
        But it was with an early directorial effort, an experiment that mingled memoir and theater, that Mr. Sacharow may have made his greatest impact.
        In the summer of 1967, while working as a teacher at Daytop Village, a drug rehabilitation center in Staten Island, Mr. Sacharow helped eight residents put together a play based on their experiences at the center. The play, called ''The Concept,'' opened at Cafe La MaMa, with the residents as actors and Mr. Sacharow as director. It later transferred to the Off Broadway Sheridan Square Playhouse.
        Walter Kerr, writing in The New York Times, described ''The Concept'' as ''without question the most moving theatrical experience in New York just now.''
        The play was later presented at the White House and the United Nations, and in 1994, Mr. Sacharow took a version of it to Russia, in a tour sponsored by the State Department.
        He later revisited the biographical form with a 1999 performance piece called ''The Road Home: Stories of Children of War,'' based on interviews with people who had experienced violence in Bosnia, Cambodia, troubled urban areas in the United States and elsewhere. Since 1989, he had been director of the theater program at the Lincoln Center campus of Fordham University.
        Born in Brooklyn on Oct. 10, 1937, Mr. Sacharow was the son of a homemaker and a taxi driver. After a stint in the Army, he went to Brooklyn College to study television, but gradually became involved in the budding downtown theater scene in the 1960's.
        In addition to his daughter Anya, Mr. Sacharow's survivors include his wife, Michele; another daughter, Nina; and a grandson.
      