
        Professor Ezra Fleischer, an Israeli poet and scholar whose work on a long-forgotten trove of ancient Jewish manuscripts helped shed new light on the development of the early synagogue and Jewish prayer, died last Tuesday in Jerusalem. He was 78.
        His death was confirmed by Hebrew University in Jerusalem, where he taught for many years.
        Professor Fleischer was among the major scholars who studied and cataloged the Cairo Geniza, a treasury of documents, some of which dated to the first century A.D., discovered by Western scholars in a synagogue in Old Cairo the late 1800's. A geniza is a repository for worn-out texts traditionally kept in a synagogue because, under Jewish law, paper with sacred writing on it cannot be simply discarded; in this case the texts spanned 1,900 years.
        The documents -- amounting to more than 200,000 fragments -- were removed for study in an international effort that involved the universities of Oxford and Cambridge in England, Hebrew University in Jerusalem and the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York.
        The fragments were remarkably well preserved by the dry Egyptian climate and provided a window into the development of Judaism over nearly 2,000 years. Because of the vast scope of the material, different scholars focused on different areas. Professor Fleischer's area was poetry and prayer.
        Dr. Ruth Langer, associate professor of Jewish Studies at Boston College called Professor Fleischer ''a path-breaking scholar who unpacked the liturgical passages of the geniza.'' He was said to have worked on 60,000 fragments over 40 years.
        His major contribution, Dr. Langer said, was to demonstrate that Jewish prayer as it is known today was first developed by the rabbis after the destruction of the Second Temple in A.D. 70. Until Professor Fleischer's work, the prevailing scholarly understanding was that the prayers had emerged earlier, in the synagogues of the Second Temple period.
        Professor Fleischer's findings had implications for Christian as well as Jewish scholars, said Dr. Paul Bradshaw, professor of liturgy at the University of Notre Dame in London.
        ''Traditionally, we assumed Jesus and his followers would have been familiar with a complete fixed Jewish liturgy, and so began to search for signs of that in early Christian practices,'' Dr. Bradshaw said. ''Many Christian scholars still do, but those of us who are familiar with the work of Fleischer and others now paint a very different picture of Christian prayer origins from that.''
        Scholars agree that synagogues existed in the late Second Temple period, when Jesus lived. The question is what happened in them. In an interview in The Jerusalem Post in 1997, Professor Fleischer said that prayer in the early synagogue was individual rather than communal.
        ''Jews came to synagogue not only to fulfill their obligation to pray but to hear poetry,'' he said. ''They sat there for hours on end and were not bored.''
        About 60,000 of these poems, known in Hebrew as piyyutim, were found in the geniza. The poets would often ''sign'' their works by acronym, beginning a selection of lines with letters spelling out their name.
        Professor Fleischer spent decades in Israel's National Library studying these poems. ''Many of the piyyutim are rubbish,'' he told Abraham Rabinovich of The Jerusalem Post. But, he added, others were works of genius.
        ''A poet like Yannai,'' he said of the poet who wrote in the sixth century, ''a nation produces only once or twice in its history.''
        Ezra Fleischer was born in 1928 in Timisoara, Transylvania. He studied in the Jewish school that his father, Judah Loeb Fleischer, had founded there in 1918. The school was closed by the Communist regime in 1948.
        Ezra Fleischer was imprisoned after World War II for Zionist activities in Romania. While in prison, he wrote an epic Hebrew poem, ''Massa Gog,'' in which he predicted the downfall of Communism. The poem was smuggled out of Romania and was published in Israel where, according to the Encyclopedia Judaica, it caused a ''literary sensation.'' In 1959, ''Massa Gog'' was given the nation's most prestigious award, the Israel Prize.
        In 1960, Professor Fleischer immigrated to Israel, where he undertook the study of medieval Hebrew literature. He received his Ph.D. at Hebrew University and taught there until his retirement, in 1997. At his death he held the title of professor emeritus.
        Professor Fleischer was also the director of the Geniza Research Institute for Hebrew Poetry of the Israel Academy of Science and Humanities. His published work, most of it on poetry and prayer, covers a wide swath of ancient and medieval Jewish life from Andalusia and Amsterdam to Syria and Cairo. He also wrote extensively about Judaism's encounter with Islam and Christianity.
        Professor Fleischer's wife died last year. He is survived by a son, Yehudah; a daughter, Shulamit Bergstein; and seven grandchildren.
      