
        Robert L. McCullough, who changed the civil rights movement by choosing to work on a roadside chain gang rather than pay a $100 fine after his arrest in 1961 for asking to be served at a whites-only lunch counter in South Carolina, died Monday in Rock Hill, S.C. He was 64.
        Samuel Reid Jr., assistant manager of Robinson Funeral Home, confirmed the death but said he did not know the cause.
        Mr. McCullough was the informal leader of nine black students and a civil rights organizer who on Jan. 31, 1961, sat down at the McCrory's lunch counter in Rock Hill and ordered hamburgers and drinks. They were refused service and arrested for trespassing.
        Nine of the 10 chose 30 days' hard labor at the York County prison farm rather than pay the fine, as had been the practice of demonstrators.
        The Gandhi-like stand by Mr. McCullough's group, with the slogan ''jail, no bail,'' inspired an immediate change in the tactics of civil rights sit-ins; within days about 100 protesters were jailed in similar cases, winning support for the cause.
        The group became known as the Friendship Nine because they were students at Friendship Junior College in Rock Hill. Mr. McCullough is the first of them to die.
        Taylor Branch, in his book ''Parting the Waters: America in the King Years 1954-63,'' said the decision to go to jail had been ''an emotional breakthrough for the civil rights movement,'' because it used cheerful suffering as political witness in the manner of Gandhi during the struggle for Indian independence.
        Mr. Branch said it had also allowed protesters to escape the crippling cumulative cost of bail and fines.
        ''The obvious advantage of 'jail, no bail' was that it reversed the financial burden of protest, costing the demonstrators no cash while obligating the authorities to pay for jail space and food,'' Mr. Branch wrote.
        Within a week of the jailing, four professional civil rights organizers went to Rock Hill to seek arrest and joined them in the York County jail; 31 protesters were in an Atlanta jail and six were jailed in Lynchburg, Va.
        Despite news reports of the prisoners' brave singing of hymns and patriotic songs, incarceration was exceedingly unpleasant. Claude Sitton, a reporter for The New York Times who visited the York County jail, said disinfectant fumes burned the eyes and ruined the taste of a cigarette. Inmates slept on the steel latticework of the bunks because ''drunks set them on fire,'' he reported. Some of the Friendship Nine were consigned to solitary confinement and lived on bread and water.
        In an article about the release of eight of the prisoners (the ninth was released pending appeal), The Times quoted Mr. McCullough as saying that the experience ''served to strengthen my conviction that human suffering can assist social change.''
        Robert Louis McCullough was born on March 16, 1942, in Rock Hill, a textile manufacturing center near Charlotte, N.C. He attended the all-black Emmett Scott High School, and then Friendship, which no longer exists. The civil rights struggle had occupied Rock Hill since 1957, when a boycott of the local segregated bus company forced it out of business.
        Sit-ins against segregated lunch counters began on Feb. 1, 1960, in Greensboro, N.C., with students continuing the protests there for six months. Similar demonstrations had occurred in at least 16 other cities over the three preceding years but the Greensboro demonstration elicited the support of hundreds as the days went on. Sit-ins spread to Durham and Winston, N.C., and many other cities, including Rock Hill.
        At Friendship, Mr. McCullough gained the nickname Napoleon in deference to his leadership and diminutive height. In an article Wednesday in The Rock Hill Herald, David Williamson, one of the nine, called Mr. McCullough ''our general.''
        Mr. Williamson said, ''He used to throw his weight around, but he was the smallest one in the crowd.''
        Thomas Massey, another member of the group, told The Herald that he had initially balked at the lunch-counter protest because he had money and ''didn't have to sit on that white stool in that white dime store.''
        Mr. McCullough had replied, using his friend's nickname: ''It's not just about you, Dub. This is for all of humanity.''
        The sit-in in Rock Hill, was different from its predecessors in that protesters gathered with the explicit intention of going to jail: some brought their toothbrushes.
        Mr. McCullough is survived by his wife, the former Mary Patricia Williams; his daughter, Tracy McCullough; four brothers; four sisters; and two grandchildren.
        He worked as a computer technician for various companies and was a volunteer firefighter. He attended reunions of the protesters, at which they joked that the chain gang was the first day of hard work some had ever done, according to an article in The Herald in 2001.
        ''I guess if we had to do it today, Scoop,'' Mr. McCullough declared, calling Mr. Williamson by his nickname, ''we'd do it again.''
      