
        Jason Rhoades, the Los Angeles sculptor who garnered international renown for his audacious, wildly diversified, morally provocative installations, died suddenly on Tuesday after being taken ill at his home. He was 41.
        The cause was heart failure, said Mr. Rhoades's New York gallerist, David Zwirner. Mr. Rhoades was pronounced dead at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
        Mr. Rhoades emerged professionally in the early 1990's, when artists like Matthew Barney and Cady Noland were also creating symbolically charged environments out of unlikely commercial and industrial products. Mr. Rhoades's work was distinguished for being at once messily absurd and obscurely systematic. A sprawling yet tightly organized installation for the 1995 Whitney Biennial called ''My Brother/Brancusi'' included a donut-making machine and automotive repair equipment, along with photographs of Brancusi's studio and of Mr. Rhoades's brother's bedroom, from which the installation's layout was derived.
        Cheerfully vulgar sexual references were always a part of Mr. Rhoades's work, reflecting, perhaps, his studies with the famously ribald artist Paul McCarthy at the University of California, Los Angeles, in the early 1990's. An exhibition called ''Meccatuna'' at the David Zwirner gallery in 2003 featured hundreds of neon signs spelling slangy euphemisms for female genitalia. It also had a one-third-size model of the Kaaba, the stone structure in Mecca venerated by followers of Islam, that a gallery assistant was constructing from Lego blocks during the run of the show. Such divergent representations could be bewildering, but underlying all Mr. Rhoades's projects was a conviction that everything is somehow connected, albeit not always in obvious ways.
        A key figure in the Los Angeles art world, Mr. Rhoades was also warmly embraced in Europe, where artists like Joseph Beuys and Dieter Roth had accustomed audiences to grandiose theatrical spectacles. At the Deichtorhallen in Hamburg, Germany, in 1999, he constructed what he then maintained was the world's largest sculpture, a vast platform bearing an actual-size photographic replica of his father's garden raised high overhead on a complex system of polished aluminum scaffolding.
        For his most recent project last winter in Los Angeles, Mr. Rhoades conducted a series of invitation-only, Thursday-night soirées at which guests were entertained by musical acts and invited to participate in zany activities like macramé weaving and eating frozen yogurt out of their shoes.
        Jason Fayette Rhoades was born in the northern California town of Newcastle on July 9, 1965. He attended the California College of Arts and Crafts in Oakland and the San Francisco Art Institute, and he earned a master's of fine arts degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1993. That year he had his first solo exhibition at Mr. Zwirner's gallery in New York. A large installation by Mr. Rhoades titled ''Tijuanatanjierchandelier'' is on view at the Centro de Arte Contemporáneo de Málaga, Spain, through Oct. 29.
        Mr. Rhoades is survived by his wife, the artist Rachel Khedoori, and his daughter, Rubi; his parents, Jack and Jackie Rhoades; and his brothers, Greg and Matt Rhoades.
        ''To juggle the impossible was always an issue throughout my work,'' Mr. Rhoades once said. ''To take three objects, like a rubber ball, a chain saw and a live African elephant and try to juggle.''
      