
        John L. Bull, a largely self-taught ornithologist and educator whose definitive guidebooks to New York State birds led a generation of birders into the woods, died on Friday in Queens. He was 92.
        Mr. Bull's death was confirmed by his family.
        A research assistant at the American Museum of Natural History, Mr. Bull led popular birding tours of Long Island and Central Park in the 1960's and 70's and meticulously kept track of the species and the state of their habitat.
        In 1964, he wrote a book, ''Birds of the New York Area,'' intended for would-be birders living in the suburbs of New Jersey, Long Island and Connecticut and for those in Manhattan itself, a prime birding destination. It covered the mourning doves of Central Park to the horned grebes off Montauk Point.
        Mr. Bull later expanded his reach and wrote about all of the 410 bird species that had been recorded throughout New York State. That book, ''Birds of New York State,'' which was published in 1974, was the first exhaustive survey of the subject in 60 years. Another researcher, E.H. Eaton, had recorded only 366 bird species in 1914.
        In Mr. Bull's book, he noted the new or increased counts of species usually found at more southerly latitudes -- like the snowy egret -- and suggested that a milder climate might be at work in changing migration patterns.
        Joel L. Cracraft, curator in charge of the ornithology department at the American Museum of Natural History, said the guidebook was ''a first-rate state bird book.''
        ''At the time,'' Dr. Cracraft said, ''there was not a high-quality and professional account of the great diversity of New York's species and their distributions.''
        He continued, ''John Bull did not want to take an anecdotal approach.''
        With binoculars in hand in the Ramble in Central Park, which is under one of the main flyways of migrating birds, and in countless spots in Queens and Nassau Counties, Mr. Bull quietly made his observations.
        In an interview in The New York Times in Feb. 6, 1972, he lamented, ''as roads and homes and stores continue to be built, the number of birding spots declines in proportion.'' Yet he remained optimistic, adding, ''But there is nothing like getting out on a crisp morning with a destination, or a dozen destinations, in mind.''
        In 1977, Mr. Bull and John Farrand Jr. used color photographs to illustrate their book ''National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds: Eastern Region.'' Dr. Cracraft said the book was a departure from past guidebooks, which had heavily depended on drawings and paintings to make distinctions among species.
        John Lewis Bull was born in Manhattan on Feb. 28, 1914. He identified a red-headed woodpecker at age 11, and the woodpecker remained his favorite bird.
        He joined the American Museum of Natural History in 1962 and officially retired as a field associate in 1983. But he continued to lead birding tours as far away as Egypt, South Africa and the Galápagos Islands.
        Mr. Bull is survived by his wife, Edith, of Far Rockaway, Queens; his daughter, Doris Kraus, a marine biologist and writer, of Miami; and by three grandchildren.
        Mr. Bull was often accompanied by his wife, an educator at the museum, on birding journeys. In 1989, the couple collaborated on a book, ''Birds of North America: Western Region: A Quick Identification Guide for All Bird-Watchers.''
        Remarking on the mourning doves that he spotted in Central Park, Mr. Bull observed: ''They are the most monogamous birds I've ever watched. They always travel in pairs.''
      