
        Vernon M. Ingram, a molecular biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who discovered that a single genetic mutation caused the blood disease sickle cell anemia, died on Aug. 17 in Boston. He was 82.
        The cause was injuries stemming from a fall, according to M.I.T.
        A professor of biology, Dr. Ingram was best known for his discovery, in the early 1950's, that a single amino acid substitution is responsible for the molecular abnormality that leads to sickle cell anemia. While studying the genetics of hemoglobin, the molecule that carries oxygen in blood, he found that this single mutation caused production of abnormal variants of the protein.
        Today, many diseases, like hemophilia and cystic fibrosis, are known to result from alterations in a single gene.
        Graham C. Walker, another M.I.T. biology professor and a longtime colleague of Dr. Ingram, called the discovery ''one of the absolutely seminal discoveries in the history of molecular biology.''
        In recent years, Dr. Ingram focused his research on neuroscience, especially Alzheimer's disease.
        He and colleagues had been examining a group of compounds that in cell culture experiments appeared to reverse some of the early effects of Alzheimer's that are caused by deposits of plaques that attack patients' brains.
        Dr. Ingram was born in Breslau, Germany. He studied at Birkbeck College at the University of London, earning a bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1945 and a doctorate in organic chemistry in 1949.
        He then spent two years in the United States preparing and crystallizing proteins at the Rockefeller Institute and studying peptide chemistry at Yale before returning to England in 1952 to study protein chemistry in the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge.
        It was there that his work with hemoglobin protein led to his sickle cell anemia discovery.
        Dr. Ingram joined the faculty at M.I.T. in 1958 and was one of a group of professors who started a world-renowned center for the study of molecular and cell biology.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 2002.
        In 2002, a former student petitioned to have an asteroid named after Dr. Ingram and his wife, Elizabeth, to commemorate their 16-year tenure as housemasters of Ashdown House, a graduate dorm at M.I.T. The asteroid, discovered in 1981 drifting between Mars and Jupiter, is now officially (6285) Ingram.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Ingram is survived by a son, Peter, and a daughter, Jennifer.
      