
        Melvin Schwartz, who shared the 1988 Nobel Prize in Physics for generating a beam of wispy particles known as neutrinos, died Monday at a nursing home in Twin Falls, Idaho. He was 73 and lived in Ketchum, Idaho.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease and hepatitis C, said his son, David.
        The Nobel-winning experiment, conducted in the early 1960's at Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, provided physicists with a new way to study one of the universe's fundamental forces: the weak interaction, which governs how atomic nuclei fall apart in certain types of radioactive decay.
        It also showed for the first time that two types of neutrinos existed. (Other researchers later discovered a third.) Later in his life, Dr. Schwartz founded a computer security company and then returned to physics to oversee an ambitious atomic physics collider at Brookhaven.
        In the 1950's, physicists had trouble studying neutrinos, because although they are plentiful -- billions of neutrinos produced by the sun pass through every person every second -- they barely interact with other matter, and only rarely. Dr. Schwartz suggested that neutrinos might be easier to study if it was possible to create a beam of them in a laboratory.
        ''He was an original thinker,'' said Nicholas P. Samios, a classmate of Dr. Schwartz during their undergraduate and graduate studies at Columbia in the 1950's. ''Previously people were just doing decays of particles. He said, 'Why don't we just reverse it?' That was one of his great ideas.''
        The experiment slammed high-energy protons into a piece of beryllium. The collisions tore apart the beryllium nuclei, generating evanescent particles that fell apart in a cascade of debris.
        Part of the debris included particles that always came out in pairs, a muon -- a heavy version of an electron -- together with a neutrino. A 40-foot-thick wall of steel, made from old warship armor plate, filtered out the atomic debris, except for the ghostly neutrinos, which continued traveling in the same direction as the initial beam of protons.
        The scientists could then study the occasional collisions between neutrinos in the beam and aluminum atoms in a 10-ton detector. Those collisions showed that the neutrinos produced in conjunction with muons were different from those produced in conjunction with electrons.
        This work, the creation of a neutrino beam and the discovery of muon neutrinos, won Dr. Schwartz and his Columbia colleagues Leon M. Lederman and Jack Steinberger the Nobel Prize.
        Born in New York City in 1932, Melvin Schwartz attended the Bronx High School of Science. He received his bachelor's degree from Columbia in 1953 and a doctorate, also from Columbia, in 1958. After working as a research scientist at Brookhaven, he joined the Columbia faculty.
        In 1966, he moved to Stanford University as a professor of physics.
        But as high-energy physics became more elaborate, requiring ever larger teams to carry out experiments, Dr. Schwartz shifted to other endeavors that fit better with his entrepreneurial spirit.
        ''Physics was getting into big time -- more formal, big committees, large groups,'' Dr. Samios said. ''That's not Mel's style.''
        In 1970, Dr. Schwartz founded Digital Pathways, a company that made equipment that allowed people to log onto computer networks securely from outside locations. He left Stanford in 1983 to work full time at his company.
        Then, in 1991, his old classmate Dr. Samios, who was then director of Brookhaven, persuaded him to return to physics. Dr. Schwartz moved back to New York, both as a professor at Columbia and an associate director of Brookhaven. Dr. Schwartz oversaw the building of four detectors at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, known as RHIC (and pronounced rick), that is currently running at Brookhaven.
        ''What you see at RHIC today is just the imprint of Mel's personality, his approach to physics, his decision making,'' said William A. Zajc, a physicist who works on one of the detectors, known as Phenix. That detector, he added, was the ''shotgun wedding'' of three proposals that Dr. Schwartz rejected, a controversial decision possibly driven by budget constraints.
        Dr. Schwartz, who had left physics because groups of dozens of researchers were too large for his taste, was now managing collaborations of 300 to 400 scientists, Dr. Zajc said.
        Dr. Zajc, who was working on one of the rejected proposals, said that Dr. Schwartz's decision was initially discouraging, but that RHIC has turned out an overwhelming success. ''It was probably Mel's intuition about how he thought things should proceed,'' he continued. ''He was an iconoclast. He was willing to wade into a field in which he had no real experience and trust his physics judgment.''
        Dr. Schwartz moved to Idaho in 1997.
        In addition to his son David, of New York City, Dr. Schwartz is survived by his wife, Marilyn, of Ketchum; two daughters, Diana Bodell of Bolingbrook, Ill., and Betty Marcon of San Francisco; a brother, Bernard Schwartz of Walnut Creek, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      