
        Léopold Simoneau, the Canadian lyric tenor who dominated international Mozart performance in the 1950's, died on Thursday night in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 90 and lived in Victoria.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, said Renée Maheu, the author of a joint biography of Mr. Simoneau and his wife, the soprano Pierrette Alarie, who survives him.
        Mr. Simoneau was the epitome of the French tenor, meaning that he had a light voice, beautiful diction and a mastery of musical nuance. ''Intelligence'' and ''beauty'' are two adjectives that repeatedly surface in reviews of the 1950's and 1960's, when Mr. Simoneau appeared regularly at the festivals in Aix-en-Provence, France; Glyndebourne, England; and Salzburg, Austria -- as well as at the Paris Opera, La Scala and even, briefly, the Metropolitan Opera in New York.
        By the time he made his Met debut as Don Ottavio in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' in 1963, Mr. Simoneau was acknowledged as one of the world's leading performers of the role. He ''brought down the house,'' wrote Theodore Strongin in The New York Times, adding, ''After all, though it's his first Ottavio at the Met, it's the 200th or so in his life; he's done it practically everywhere else.'' (In fact, he retired from staged opera after his 185th outing in the role, in 1964, although he continued to sing it in concert.)
        While he sang only four performances at the Met, Mr. Simoneau appeared frequently in New York, with the New York Philharmonic (there is a recording of Berlioz's Requiem, with Bruno Walter), the American Opera Society, and especially the Little Orchestra Society. This group offered the first American performance of Berlioz's ''Enfance du Christ'' in New York in 1951; Mr. Simoneau appeared in it every year until 1963, and was often hailed as a highlight of the performance.
        Léopold Simoneau was born on May 3, 1916, in St.-Flavien, near Quebec City. After initial voice studies in Quebec City, he moved to Montreal and the studio of Salvator Issaurel, where he met Ms. Alarie. The two often sang together in the Variétés Lyriques in Montreal, where he made his stage debut in ''Lakmé'' in 1941. After winning the Canadian Prix d'Archambault in 1944, he moved to New York and studied for two years with Paul Althouse while Ms. Alarie made her Metropolitan Opera debut; they were married in 1946.
        Mr. Simoneau made his Paris debut in 1949, in Gounod's ''Mireille,'' and quickly came to prominence in Europe. In addition to singing Mozart roles -- participating in the classic recording of ''Così Fan Tutte'' with Herbert von Karajan and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf; singing Idamante in a famous Glyndebourne ''Idomeneo,'' with Birgit Nilsson and Sena Jurinac -- he took part in some significant contemporary works: Stravinsky's ''Oedipus Rex,'' conducted by the composer, in 1952, and the French premiere of ''The Rake's Progress'' in 1953.
        He sang frequently at the Montreal Festival or in Vancouver, where in 1958 he appeared in ''Don Giovanni'' with Joan Sutherland in her North American debut. He and Ms. Alarie often performed and toured together. A number of their recordings were recently reissued in a boxed set from Deutsche Grammophon.
        Mr. Simoneau began teaching at the conservatory in Quebec in 1963. After retiring from active performance, he was appointed to a post in the Quebec Cultural Ministry that led to his founding the short-lived Opéra de Québec in 1971. Shortly thereafter, he and his wife and daughters moved to California, where he taught at the San Francisco Conservatory. From there they moved to Banff, in the Canadian Rockies, eventually settling in Victoria, where he and Ms. Alarie founded a training company called Canada Opera Piccola in 1982.
        Mr. Simoneau also wrote and translated articles and books on opera, including his own ''Art of Bel Canto'' and ''On Singers and Singing'' by Reynaldo Hahn.
        In June, Mr. Simoneau and Ms. Alarie celebrated their 60th anniversary. In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Isabelle and Chantal.
        Correction:  August 31, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Léopold Simoneau, the Canadian lyric tenor noted for his performances of Mozart, misidentified a composition he recorded with the New York Philharmonic under Bruno Walter. It was Mozart's Requiem, not Berlioz's Requiem. (He recorded Berlioz's with the Boston Symphony Orchestra under Charles Munch.)
      