
        Dr. James F. X. O'Rourke, an eye surgeon who, never content with medicine alone, followed an unlikely career path that took him from singing and playing football to leading the city of Yonkers and the Westchester County Republican Party, died on Friday in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in Scarborough, N.Y.
        The cause was kidney cancer, said his daughter Kathy Rittinger.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed Dr. O'Rourke mayor of Yonkers on Dec. 31, 1966, to fill the vacancy created by the election of John E. Flynn to the State Assembly. Dr. O'Rourke was elected mayor in November 1967 and was defeated in 1969.
        He was chairman of the Westchester County Republican organization from 1973 through 1979. In 1980, he teamed up with Dominick L. DiCarlo, a former assemblyman, to run Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign in New York State.
        Dr. O'Rourke was born in Manhattan and grew up in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He graduated from Manhattan College at 19 and from Georgetown Medical School at 22.
        While a student at Georgetown, he married Evelyn Cooke and sang in nightclubs and on the radio. He also played professional football for the minor league Washington Presidents and played three exhibition games with the New York Giants before being cut when several retired players returned to fill the player vacuum created by World War II.
        Dr. O'Rourke was a medical officer in Europe during the war, receiving a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star. Near the end of the war, he sang ''Recondita Armonia'' from Puccini's ''Tosca'' at a medal ceremony attended by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        After the war, he practiced general medicine in the Bronx while completing his residency in ophthalmology at Columbia Presbyterian Eye Institute. He opened a practice in Manhattan and was affiliated with Columbia Presbyterian, St. Vincent's and Bellevue, where he also taught. He later opened a second office, in Bronxville.
        Dr. O'Rourke continued working until June as director of ophthalmology at Westchester Medical Center, a post he had held since the 1980's.
        As for his career in politics, Dr. O'Rourke said he fell into it in the early 1960's by agreeing to run for councilman in Yonkers. He won and went on to become deputy mayor before becoming mayor.
        Dr. O'Rourke's defeat as mayor followed public anger when members of the city's Police Department called in sick in an apparent protest over the city's position in contract talks. He was defeated by Alfred B. DelBello, a Democrat, who told voters that Yonkers was $12 million in debt.
        A month later, Dr. O'Rourke said the Yonkers city administration was riddled with fraud and mob-influenced kickbacks and payoffs. The State Commission of Investigation held seven days of hearings, and a grand jury recommended that Governor Rockefeller remove a city councilman. Mr. Rockefeller did not do so.
        While Dr. O'Rourke was leading the Republican Party, Mr. DelBello became the first Democrat to be elected county executive. Mr. DelBello won the post in 1973. But in 1974, Dr. O'Rourke helped win Republican pluralities in Westchester County in races for president, United States senator and governor.
        In 1972, he was a founder of Hudson Valley Bank and served as director and chairman.
        Besides his daughter Kathy, Dr. O'Rourke is survived by six other daughters: Colleen Kensinger, Eileen Hoffnagle, Mary Wojtusiak, Ann Romanovsky, Tara Howard and Kerry Malitoris; six sons: James, Brian, Kevin, Sean, Michael and Brendan; 27 grandchildren; one great-grandson; and a brother, Richard. His wife, Evelyn, died in 2003.
        Among his activities, Dr. O'Rourke coached a Pop Warner League youth football team for 16 years. The team became local heroes in Yonkers when it won the Northeastern regional championship. All six of Dr. O'Rourke's sons played on the team at one time or another; his daughters were cheerleaders, and his wife took charge when he was late for practice.
        Correction:  August 10, 2006, Thursday  The headline yesterday with an obituary of Dr. James F. X. O'Rourke, an eye surgeon and politician who lived in Scarborough, N.Y., misstated his age in some copies. He was 86, not 89.
      