
        Duke Jordan, a pianist whose work with the saxophonist Charlie Parker endures in the jazz canon, died on Tuesday in Valby, Denmark, a suburb of Copenhagen. He was 84, and he had lived in self-imposed exile from the United States since 1978, continuing to perform in the musical tradition he helped create.
        His death was confirmed by Alistair Thomson, a spokesman for the United States Embassy in Denmark.
        Mr. Jordan was regarded as one of the great early bebop pianists. The sound that he helped to create in the postwar era was something new in the American landscape, and it remains a cornerstone of jazz.
        His work with Parker, recorded for the Dial and Savoy labels, soared with a lilting intensity. It was hard-driving and lyrical, heady and heartfelt, said Ira Gitler, a jazz critic who heard Mr. Jordan and Parker in 1947, at the Onyx Club and the Three Deuces, two long-vanished nightclubs on West 52nd Street in Manhattan.
        A handful of recordings from 1947 and 1948 featuring Parker, along with Miles Davis on trumpet, Mr. Jordan on piano and Max Roach on drums, are considered masterpieces. They include ''Embraceable You,'' ''Crazeology,'' and ''Scrapple From the Apple.''
        Mr. Jordan's ''beautifully apt introductions,'' in the words of Phil Schaap, curator of Jazz at Lincoln Center, lasted only seconds. But they set the stage for three-minute explosions of creativity.
        Bebop -- its nonsense name often credited to the trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie -- was nothing like the orchestral jazz of the 1930's, made for ballroom dancing. It was fast, furious, intricate and improvised. Musicians took the basic structures of the blues or standards like ''I Got Rhythm'' and turned them inside out, embellishing their chords with cascades of notes. In Mr. Jordan's hands, the piano, freed from keeping metronomic time, became a fountain of melody and color.
        In 1949 and the early 1950's, Mr. Jordan recorded with groups led by the saxophonists Coleman Hawkins, Stan Getz and Sonny Stitt, led his own quartet and performed at New York nightclubs and on national radio broadcasts. His work in the 1950's sometimes embraced more of a blues and gospel feeling but never left the fundamentals of the bebop sound.
        Classically trained, he had a gift for composing and teaching, and several of his works, including ''Jor-du'' and ''No Problem,'' remain jazz classics, Mr. Schaap said. Some of his compositions are also heard on the soundtrack of the 1959 version of ''Les Liaisons Dangereuses,'' directed by Roger Vadim and starring Jeanne Moreau.
        Irving Sidney Jordan was born in New York at the dawn of the era of recorded jazz, on April 1, 1922. Before his 21st birthday he was playing piano in big bands, including the Savoy Sultans, the house orchestra at the Savoy Ballroom, in its day the world's most famous dance hall. Gillespie once called the Savoy Sultans ''the swingingest band there ever was.''
        In 1952 he married the jazz singer Sheila Jordan, who often said that she loved Charlie Parker so much that she married his piano player. Their interracial marriage was unusual in the 1950's, when segregation remained legal, and miscegenation was a crime in some states. The marriage did not last.
        Ms. Jordan became a highly regarded performer whose career continues today. They had a daughter, Traci, who became a music promoter. He has no other known survivors.
        Mr. Jordan, like many of his contemporaries, developed a heroin habit, Mr. Gitler said. By the mid-1960's, he was reduced to driving a taxicab in New York. He rehabilitated himself in the 1970's, and began a new life as a leader of trios and quartets in Copenhagen, where he settled permanently in 1978. He recorded more than 30 albums for the Danish label SteepleChase Records and performed in concerts and at jazz festivals worldwide.
        ''He never changed styles,'' said Scott Yanow, a jazz historian. ''He had been one of the very first pianists to pick up on the changes that bebop brought, breaking out of conventional song, which took jazz beyond dance music into something new.''
      