
        Dr. Paul B. Beeson, an expert in infectious diseases whose research contributed to novel insights into the causes of high and persistent fevers and who became an influential medical editor and administrator at Yale and Oxford, died Monday in Exeter, N.H. He was 97.
        Dr. Beeson's death was confirmed by his family.
        In the 1950's and 60's, while he was the chairman of the department of medicine at Yale, Dr. Beeson conducted his penetrating research on the way in which infections with disease-causing organisms lead to fevers.
        Working with Dr. Elisha Atkins and others, he demonstrated that fever was often a bodily response to infection, and was not merely caused by an attack by the foreign organisms, as had been theorized. The Yale researchers found that a substance released by the body's white blood cells provoked a fever response. They isolated the substance, a protein called interleukin-1, and showed that it was released by white blood cells called leukocytes.
        Dr. Beeson and another Yale colleague, Dr. Robert Petersdorf, later published an important clinical study of patients with persistent fevers brought on by unknown causes. They looked at patients with fevers of at least 101 degrees that lasted for three weeks or more, and found that many were rooted in infections, cancers and rheumatic diseases; they then suggested guidelines for diagnosing the causes.
        The study, published in the journal Medicine in 1961, was ''a landmark paper,'' said Dr. Lawrence S. Cohen, a cardiologist-internist and professor of medicine at Yale. Dr. Cohen said it was ''as relevant in 2006 as in 1961, in pointing out causes that were not obvious and teaching clinicians what they should be thinking about in making a differential diagnosis.''
        Dr. Beeson's broader expertise was demonstrated in his editions of standard textbooks in internal medicine. From 1963 to 1979, with Dr. Walsh McDermott, he edited the ''Cecil-Loeb Textbook of Medicine,'' which covers hematology, oncology, infectious diseases and endocrinology, and is intended for medical students and practitioners.
        He also helped edit ''Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine'' and ''The Oxford Companion to Medicine.''
        In 1965, Dr. Beeson was named Nuffield professor of medicine at Oxford University, and trained students and interns in polishing their clinical approaches to patients. In the following decades, he expressed concern about what he termed the ''industrialization of medicine,'' the dominance of specialists in medical school faculties and the erosion of personal bonds between physician and patient.
        ''I fear losing sight of the relationship between the doctor and the patient,'' he said in an interview in the Annals of Internal Medicine in 2000. ''And it seems that many trends in the last half of this century have conspired against it.''
        Dr. Beeson concluded, ''Basic science, clinical research, economics are not intrinsically therapeutic; they must be transformed by the clinician.''
        The son of a surgeon, Paul Bruce Beeson was born in Livingston, Mont. He received his medical degree from McGill University in Montreal in 1933.
        He joined Emory University in 1942 and served as the chairman of the department of medicine there from 1946 to 1952. Dr. Beeson then moved to Yale, where he was chairman of medicine until 1965.
        After returning from Oxford in 1974, he became a professor of medicine at the University of Washington. He retired in 1981.
        Dr. Beeson is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Barbara Neal, a nurse. The couple had lived in Exeter since 2002.
        He is also survived by two sons, John N. Beeson of Livingston, N.J., and Peter G. Beeson of Concord, N.H.; a daughter, Judith Beeson Assirelli of Montella, Italy; six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      