
        Elden Auker, a leading pitcher in the 1930's and early 40's whose submarine-style delivery helped the Detroit Tigers capture two American League pennants and a World Series championship, died yesterday morning in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 95. He died of congestive heart failure, said his son, James Auker.
        Pitching in the A.L. from 1933 to 1942, with the Tigers, the Boston Red Sox and the St. Louis Browns, Auker had a record of 130-101. He was 15-7 in 1934, when the Tigers won the pennant, then lost to the St. Louis Cardinals' Gas House Gang in the World Series. He had his best season in 1935, when he was 18-7 with a league-leading .720 winning percentage as the Tigers captured another pennant and defeated the Chicago Cubs in the World Series.
        Auker became an author at 90 with his memoir of Depression-era baseball, ''Sleeper Cars and Flannel Uniforms,'' written with Tom Keegan. He told of pitching to Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig and playing alongside the Tigers Hall of Famers Mickey Cochrane, Hank Greenberg and Charlie Gehringer.
        Auker was born in Norcatur, Kan., a town of about 300, on Sept. 21, 1910. The son of a mailman, he was three-sport star at Kansas State, playing baseball, football and basketball. He signed with the Tigers organization after graduating in 1932, hoping to earn enough money to attend medical school.
        A right-handed pitcher, Auker had begun throwing sidearm at Kansas State after injuring his shoulder playing football. When he joined the Tigers' farm team in Decatur, Ill., the manager, Bob Coleman, who later managed the Boston Braves, converted him into a submariner, or underhanded pitcher, fearing that he would have control problems throwing sidearm.
        Although submarine-style pitchers are rare, Auker found success with the delivery in which his hand virtually scraped the mound as he threw the ball. He soon forgot about becoming a doctor.
        His underhand delivery generally confounded the Yankees.
        On facing Gehrig, he once recalled: ''He was a pure low-ball hitter. You'd put anything below his waist, and I don't care who you were, he'd kill you. Now, since I was an underhanded pitcher, my strength was pitching low. I used to throw at his feet to keep his feet loose, so he couldn't dig in.''
        ''And I had good success with a guy like DiMaggio, who didn't like my style of pitching,'' Auker recalled. ''Ruth didn't like unorthodox pitching either. But Tommy Henrich and Red Rolfe, they must have hit .600 off me.'' In the off-season Auker played golf in Florida with Ruth and the Hall of Fame pitcher Dizzy Dean. ''It was a small fraternity of players back then,'' said Fay Vincent, a friend and the former baseball commissioner. ''The league was only half as big as it is now.''
        Auker was traded to the Red Sox before the 1939 season. He pitched one season for them and then pitched for the Browns in his final three years, posting double-digit figures in victories each season.
        After leaving baseball, he became an executive with Bay State Abrasives, an industrial-products firm based in Massachusetts, and retired in the 1970's as its president.
        Aside from his son, James, Auker is survived by his wife, Mildred.
        On Sept. 27, 1999, when Detroit played its last game at Tiger Stadium before moving to Comerica Park, Auker was the senior player invited to the ceremonies. ''Never forget us, for we live on by those that carry on the Tiger tradition and who so proudly wear the olde English D,'' he told the crowd.
      