
        Joan Guggenheimer, a soft-spoken lawyer who had the ear of the chief executives at two of the world's biggest banks, died Sunday at her home near Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 54.
        The cause was colon cancer, her husband, Peter, said.
        As general counsel of Citigroup and later of J. P. Morgan Chase, Mrs. Guggenheimer navigated both companies through Wall Street's legal waters, defending Smith Barney against sexual harassment charges in the ''Boom Boom Room'' case and helping resolve the Enron litigation at J. P. Morgan last year.
        But she will be remembered as much for a quiet, effective style that made her a trusted adviser in the executive suite.
        Mrs. Guggenheimer considered Charles O. Prince III, Citigroup's chairman and chief executive, a mentor as she rose through its legal ranks to become co-general counsel in 2001. She was also one of the closest advisers to James Dimon, who relied on her judgment when he ran the Smith Barney brokerage division of Citigroup. He recruited her in 2003 to be the top lawyer for Bank One, and later for J. P. Morgan when he became the chief executive.
        Her husband said that her respect for fairness and rules helped find an ethical middle ground while defending the sexual harassment claims.
        ''It was difficult because she understood there were real grievances,'' Mr. Guggenheimer said. ''But her role was to protect the company and she accomplished both goals.''
        Joan Bleckman was raised in Queens and married Peter Guggenheimer, an architect, 33 years ago. After earning a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Binghamton University in 1973, Mrs. Guggenheimer graduated from Columbia Law School in 1979.
        Mrs. Guggenheimer was a litigator before she took a job in Smith Barney's legal department in 1985.
        She is survived by her husband, Peter, and their two children: Laura, a paralegal for the Manhattan district attorney's office; and Eric, a sophomore at Cornell University.
        There will be a service at 11:45 a.m. today at Riverside Memorial Chapel at 180 West 76th Street.
      