
        John Hutton, an influential home furnishings designer whose work has been widely imitated by mass-market manufacturers in the United States and Europe, died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 59 and had homes in West Islip, N.Y., and Nancy, France.
        His wife, Brenda, said the cause was prostate cancer.
        From 1978 to 1998, Mr. Hutton was the design director of Donghia, a leading supplier of fabrics and furnishings to interior designers and architects. After he left Donghia, he started his own design company, opening offices in West Islip and Nancy.
        His designs are characterized by a glamorous bravura and a love of voluptuous classical forms. He was particularly influenced by the 18th-century Italian architect Palladio.
        ''He was a great furniture designer,'' said Barbara Bloemink, curatorial director of the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in Manhattan. ''I believe he has been called a national treasure. His designs were classic, elegant, beautifully proportioned and timeless. He got his inspiration from museums, not furniture fairs.''
        The Los Angeles-based interior designer Barbara Barry said yesterday: ''As a young designer, I was awed by the restraint and simplicity of his forms. John gave the contemporary world truly modern pieces that were as inviting as they were comfortable. He showed us that upholstered furniture can be sculpture as well as the stuff we live with in our homes.''
        John Andrew Hutton was born in Holyoke, Mass., in 1947. He moved with his family to Long Island the following year and grew up in West Islip. He graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan in 1969 and began his career as an assistant at a custom furniture company. Six months later he became its design director.
        He also worked as a design director for Louis Maslow & Sons in New York and for Randolph & Hein in San Francisco, where he was discovered in the late 1970's by the interior designer Angelo Donghia, who also owned a fabric company. When Mr. Donghia decided to open a furniture division in 1978, he hired Mr. Hutton to run it.
        While at Donghia, Mr. Hutton produced more than 200 designs, most of which are still in production. Perhaps his best-known piece is the Anziano chair. Originally designed for the American Academy in Rome, the chair has a bent-wood seat and back and metal legs. Another Hutton classic is his Ghost chair, whose lines were inspired by the sheets one sees worn on Halloween.
        As head of his own business since 1998, Mr. Hutton designed furniture collections for American companies like Sutherland Teak, Hickory Business Furniture and Holly Hunt, as well as the Italian company Flexform, the Dutch manufacturer Bench Ensemble and the French firm Pierre Counot-Blandin, with which he recently opened Pierre, a furniture shop in Paris devoted to his line.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Hutton frequently collaborated with both Donghia and the interior designer Brian Stoner in furnishing high-end residential homes. The team's clients included Diana Ross, Liza Minnelli, Steve Martin, Ralph Lauren, Mary Tyler Moore and Barbara Walters. Mr. Hutton's commercial work included the Sony Style showroom in New York, ResidenSea ship interiors, the American Center in Paris and the reoutfitting of the S.S. France.
        In recent years, Mr. Hutton also created a fabric collection, John Hutton Textiles, and worked on an extensive line of outdoor fabrics for Perennials.
        He is survived by Brenda, his wife of 37 years; his sons John, of Brooklyn, and Douglas, of Paris; a brother, Bruce, of Dayton, Ohio; and two sisters, Andrea Hutton, of Lake Hopatcong, N.J., and Shiloh Raynor, of Naples, Fla.
        Correction:  August 22, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday of the modern furniture designer John Hutton misstated the cause of death and gave an incorrect century for the career of the Italian architect Palladio, one of his artistic influences. Mr. Hutton's family said he died from complications after surgery, not from prostate cancer. Palladio lived in the 16th century, not the 18th.
      