
        John Ripley Forbes, a naturalist, conservationist and educator whose genius for persuading complete strangers to give him things, be they cold cash or gently used polar bears, helped him plant hundreds of nature museums for children in more than 30 states, died Aug. 26 in Atlanta. He was 93 and lived in Sandy Springs, Ga.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Margaret, said.
        Starting in the late 1930's and continuing for half a century, Mr. Forbes established, or helped local groups establish, natural-science centers for young people in more than 200 communities, among them Charlotte, N.C.; Fort Worth; Jacksonville, Fla.; Kansas City, Mo.; Nashville; Portland, Ore.; Sacramento; and San Jose, Calif.
        Often working for little or no pay, Mr. Forbes scoured the country to seed new museums. He lined up financial backers, of course. But he also found new uses for castoff mansions, helped turn land scheduled for development into nature preserves and persuaded countless women to liberate their husbands' trophy fish from the parlor wall and donate them to science. This the women were only too happy to do.
        Mr. Forbes had little use for grown-up natural-history museums, with their glass cases, stiff taxidermy and reverential hush. For him, a museum should ring with the shouts of children as they clambered over the exhibits, and many of the exhibits should clamber back.
        Inevitably, Mr. Forbes's museums had stuffed dioramas: when one is offered a polar bear, one takes it. But they also had nature trails, wildlife preserves, weather stations and even planetariums.
        Many children who visited were from urban neighborhoods, and a central feature of the museums were the live animals that could be handled. Some museums had animal lending libraries, from which a child might borrow, for a week at a time, creatures including rats, hamsters or guinea pigs, a porcupine (caged) or a skunk (deodorized). If the child had especially understanding parents, there were also snakes and moderately sized alligators in circulation.
        John Ripley Forbes was born on Aug. 25, 1913, in Chelsea, Mass., and was reared in Massachusetts and in Stamford, Conn. His father, an Episcopal minister, was an amateur naturalist, and, as a boy, John was enthralled by the nature walks they took together.
        He was also encouraged by a Stamford neighbor, the naturalist William T. Hornaday, the first director of the Bronx Zoo. After John mounted birds and other specimens for display in the family attic, Hornaday was invited for a tour. ''I came over expecting to see a boy's collection,'' Hornaday told John's parents in a widely quoted account of the visit. ''But instead, I have seen a scientific museum.''
        With Hornaday's help, the collection was moved to the Bruce Museum of Arts and Science in Greenwich, Conn., and later to a building in Stamford. Young Mr. Forbes, still a teenager, often conducted young visitors through his museum personally.
        In the 1930's, Mr. Forbes studied zoology and ornithology at Iowa State University and Bowdoin College, although he did not earn a degree. In 1937, he was an ornithologist on the explorer Donald Baxter MacMillan's expedition to Baffin Island.
        After Hornaday's death the same year, Mr. Forbes established the William T. Hornaday Foundation to underwrite children's museums around the United States. The organization later became the Natural Science for Youth Foundation.
        In the late 1930's, Mr. Forbes learned of a 74-room mansion that a benefactor had willed to Kansas City for use as a museum. There was one catch: The donor had left no money to refurbish it. As a Reader's Digest profile of Mr. Forbes recounted in 1947, he borrowed $100, jumped into his car and materialized in Kansas City unannounced.
        ''I've come to work,'' he told a group of astonished city fathers. ''I'll raise the money, set up a first-class museum, open a children's program and go without pay until you can afford me.''
        Mr. Forbes raised money. He bought a whale, a buffalo and other necessities. He begged the rest. Within months, he had amassed 160,000 items, and the Kansas City Museum of History and Science opened its doors.
        During World War II, Mr. Forbes served with an Army Air Forces medical unit at bases in Alabama and Tennessee. There, he ministered to returned airmen with shattered nerves by taking them fishing and on nature walks. On his days off, he started several children's museums in the South. For one, in Nashville, Mr. Forbes dashed to New York on a three-day pass and persuaded the American Museum of Natural History to part with two vanloads of specimens.
        With his family, Mr. Forbes lived for many years in Westport, Conn. -- he founded what is now Earthplace, a nature center there -- before moving to Georgia in 1971. Besides his wife, the former Margaret Sanders, whom he married in 1951, he is survived by a son, E. Ripley Forbes of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Anne Forbes Spengler of Atlanta; and two grandchildren.
        In recent years, as real estate development became a growing concern, Mr. Forbes turned his energies to preservation. In 1976, he founded the Southeast Land Preservation Trust, a conservation group.
        In 1989, Mr. Forbes learned of a forest in Sandy Springs that was about to become a car dealership. With his help, it was designated a nature preserve. Today, the 30-acre forest, which includes 200-year-old white oaks, is known as the John Ripley Forbes Big Trees Forest Preserve.
      