
        Leonard W. Levy, an exacting, dogged, prolific and combative constitutional historian whose work was frequently cited by the United States Supreme Court and won him a Pulitzer Prize, died on Aug. 24 in Ashland, Ore. He was 83.
        His death followed years of poor health and a recent stroke, said his wife, Elyse.
        Professor Levy's Pulitzer, the 1969 prize for history, was awarded for his ''Origins of the Fifth Amendment.'' He published almost 40 other books, on topics including religious liberty, Thomas Jefferson and constitutional interpretation.
        But it was his work on the scope of the First Amendment's protection of free expression that gained the most attention. His ''Legacy of Suppression: Freedom of Speech and Press in Early American History,'' published in 1960, argued that the framers of the Constitution had had a crabbed view of press freedom, limited largely to prohibiting prior censorship and perfectly comfortable with subsequent punishment for speech they thought harmful, including attacks on the government.
        ''I have been reluctantly forced to conclude,'' Professor Levy wrote, ''that the generation which adopted the Constitution and the Bill of Rights did not believe in a broad scope for freedom of expression, particularly in the realm of politics.''
        That assessment, at odds with the conventional wisdom, gave rise to withering attacks on his work. Justice Hugo L. Black of the Supreme Court, a First Amendment absolutist, wrote in a letter to a friend that the book was ''probably one of the most devastating blows that has been delivered against civil liberty in America for a long time.''
        But Professor Levy was capable of changing his mind. ''He was scrupulously honest and fair in his assessments of his own writings and other people's writings,'' said Kenneth L. Karst, who collaborated with him in editing the Encyclopedia of the American Constitution.
        Indeed, Professor Levy revised ''Legacy of Suppression'' in 1985 and gave it a telling new title: ''Emergence of a Free Press.''
        ''Seldom has a major constitutional scholar reversed his field under such brilliant light and with such a startling admission,'' the broadcast journalist and First Amendment authority Fred W. Friendly wrote at the time.
        Professor Levy beat a forthright retreat from some but hardly all of his earlier conclusions. ''I overdid it,'' he said of the earlier version of the book. ''I had a novel position, which I overstated.''
        His revised views were, he said, a result of an intense study of early America's newspapers, which he found contemptuously and scorchingly critical of the government. He had been too focused on legal theory at the expense of practical reality, he wrote.
        ''Freedom of the press,'' he wrote in his revision, ''meant that the press had achieved a special status as an unofficial fourth branch of government.''
        But he stood by what he called his principal thesis: that the framers had not intended to outlaw libel suits and prosecution for criticism of the government. Nor did he have anything kind to say about Justice Black, whom he called ''innocent of history when he did not distort it or invent it.''
        Indeed, Professor Levy disdained judges on the right and the left who molded history to their advantage. ''They look for something to confirm a hunch or to illustrate a point they have already decided on other grounds,'' he wrote in a 1988 book on constitutional interpretation. Professor Levy, it may be important to say, was not a lawyer.
        Leonard Williams Levy was born in Toronto on April 9, 1923. He earned undergraduate and graduate degrees at Columbia University and taught at Brandeis University and Claremont Graduate School. Other than his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Wendy and Leslie, both of Ashland, and seven grandchildren.
        In 1986, Professor Levy published ''The Establishment Clause: Religion and the First Amendment,'' a consideration of the extent of the constitutional separation of church and state. His conclusion: ''Robert Frost notwithstanding, something there is that loves a wall.''
        He was also an active participant in Reagan-era debates over a mode of constitutional interpretation known as originalism, popularized by Attorney General Edwin Meese III and Judge Robert H. Bork, whose nomination to the Supreme Court was defeated in 1987. Originalism looks to the text and original understanding of the Constitution as the only sure guide to its meaning.
        Professor Levy called that approach a disservice to the grand, open-textured phrases in the Constitution, formulations that he said required fresh interpretation by each new generation. ''The framers,'' he wrote, ''had a genius for studied imprecision.''
        The New York Times Book Review picked his ''Original Intent and the Framers' Constitution'' as one of the 16 best books of 1988, praising its ''rigorous scholarship and vigorous wit.'' The book demonstrated, the editors wrote, that ''judges must go right on interpreting the spacious words of the Constitution as they have always done.''
        Professor Levy had a gloomy side, and he sometimes despaired over whether his mountain of scholarship had had an impact.
        The Supreme Court's recognition of his books, for instance, gave him no pleasure, he said in a 1980 interview published in Journalism History.
        ''Two of my books'' -- those on the Fifth and First Amendments -- ''have been cited 10 or 12 times each and not once accurately, significantly or responsibly,'' he said. ''If the court, or the justices of the court, botches what I say in those books, how can I have contributed to any public understanding? I haven't.''
      