
        King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga, the ruler of a Polynesian archipelago of 150 islands with 100,000 subjects and the last reigning monarch in the South Pacific, died late yesterday. He was 88 and had been on the throne since the death of his mother in 1965.
        He died after a long illness, the office of Prime Minister Feleti Sevele said, Agence France-Presse reported. A statement from the palace confirmed the death, the news agency said. The king had been receiving medical treatment for an undisclosed condition in Auckland, New Zealand.
        For most of his reign, the king cut a gargantuan figure. In 1976, he was reported to be the world's heaviest king, at 460 pounds. Late in life, however, he lost almost 200 pounds through dieting and exercise.
        Crown Prince Taufa'ahau Monumataongo, a graduate of Sandhurst, the British military academy, at one time indicated that he did not wish to succeed his father as king, but reports yesterday said he was expected to do so.
        In Tonga's quasi-absolute monarchy, the king appoints a 12-man cabinet for life and those members become permanent representatives in the 30-seat legislative assembly. The king's 30 nobles choose nine additional representatives, and the electorate chooses nine more.
        King Tupou had dismissed calls for democracy. ''The solutions provided by majority rule are not acceptable to certain segments of the population,'' he said. ''This is why in other places there have been military coups.''
        He also rejected complaints that his children were engaging in multimillion-dollar business enterprises and that some of his ministers and nobles were corrupt.
        Since his childhood as the crown prince, King Tupou had often been officially portrayed as an innovator and trend-setter. His pole vault of 10 feet as a 14-year-old in 1932 was listed as an island record. He was said to be the first Tongan to obtain a college degree. He graduated from the University of Sydney with both bachelor's and law degrees.
        As king, he commissioned the first dictionary and grammar of Tongan, a Polynesian language, while promoting changes in written Tongan, notably to have the letter ''b'' replaced with ''p'' and the symbol ''g'' with ''ng.'' He also wrote a booklet showing how the notation of classical Western music could be transposed into traditional Tongan musical notation.
        Taufa'ahau Tupou IV (pronounced taw-fah-ah-HOW-too-po) was born Crown Prince Tupouto'a-Tungi in Nuku'alofa, the capital of Tonga, on July 4, 1918. He was a 43rd-generation direct descendant of Aho'eitu, the first supreme ruler of Tonga, who lived in the 10th century. The crown prince's father, a nobleman, was prime minister from 1923 until his death in 1941. His mother, Queen Salote Tupou III, had ruled since 1918.
        The crown prince attended schools in Tonga and was sent to Newington College, an exclusive boys' school in New South Wales, Australia, in 1932. Over the years his mother gradually gave him control of the kingdom. He served as prime minister until her death in 1965, while at times simultaneously holding the portfolios of minister of agriculture, education, health, public works, foreign affairs, radio and telephonic communications, and justice and auditing.
        He was formally crowned king in 1967 amid vast feasts and lavish celebrations. In 1970, he proclaimed full independence from Britain, which had held Tonga as a protectorate since 1900. He introduced Tonga's first newspaper and presided over its first television transmission.
        He established boards to oversee the marketing of the nation's chief product, copra, which is desiccated coconut. He was credited with introducing rugby, sumo wrestling and field hockey to his subjects and raising revenues by selling passports and orbital parking spaces for communications satellites. But nothing the king did was more striking than his own transformation when he was in his 70's.
        As travelers to the islands have noted since the days of Captain Cook, Tongan nobles have always been men and women of a certain amplitude. Girth signaled status.
        Paul Theroux, the travel writer and novelist, had an audience with the monarch and described it in his 1990 book, ''The Happy Isles of Oceania'': ''There came a wheezing and a shuffling from the hallway. The King wore a black bombazine skirt, a smocklike shirt buttoned to his neck and a great braided mass of cords around his belly. He had an aluminum cane in each fist, in each breast pocket a pair of glasses, and a gold watch on each wrist -- two of everything. But the details of the King's person were overwhelmed by his size.''
        The king ''was vast, he was slow,'' Mr. Theroux wrote, ''an enormous man whose heavy-lidded eyes and whopper jaw gave him the huge froglike face you sometimes see on ancient carved Polynesian tikis.'' He added: ''Tonga is a kingdom of big men and this man is the biggest of all. You would have known instantly that he is the King.''
        Within the next decade, the king turned his back on the tradition he was born into as a descendant of the three royal lines of Tonga and embarked on an extraordinary form of executive belt-tightening. He began riding a bicycle on the airport runway in the morning. He challenged his subjects to a weight-loss competition. He gave up fatty pork, a Tongan staple. By his 80th birthday, in 1998, he had dropped to 286 pounds.
        He remained conservative in religious matters. Christianity continued to be the state religion; most Tongans are strict Methodists. Tongan women may not wear bathing suits and must wear their clothes in the water.
        He was innovative in matters of the economy, even if many of his ideas were never carried out. He considered but never acted on a plan to build nuclear-waste storage facilities on uninhabited islands or on a proposal to put huge oil-storage facilities on volcanic islands. He toyed with the notion of buying Russian jets. He did carry out his decision to sell Tongan passports, on the condition that the holder would not settle in Tonga.
        When some foreign governments objected, the plan was modified and Tongan passports bestowing nationality and a right to settle in Tonga were offered for $20,000. Mr. Theroux reported that in the 1980's enough of these documents were purchased in places like South Africa, Libya and Hong Kong to provide Tonga with $30 million.
        In 1990, Tonga took advantage of a loophole in international law to lay claim to the last 16 desirable unoccupied orbital parking places for satellites, following first-come-first-served procedures. Intelsat, the 119-nation consortium that provides most international satellite service, maintained that Tonga lacked the resources to put up satellites and was seeking to make a quick profit by leasing the orbital slots to the highest bidders.
        Princess Salote Pilolevu Tuita, who was chairwoman of Tongasat as well as a daughter of the king, was indignant. ''Countries in Asia and the Pacific regions have a need for better communications,'' she said. ''They make it sound as if we are only interested in financial gain.'' At the time, Tonga had 4,000 telephones.
        The International Frequency Regulation Board, in Geneva, eventually ruled that Tonga could not claim all 16 satellite slots and would have to make do with six.
        The king's wife of 59 years, Queen Halaevalu Mata'aho, and other members of the royal family were with him when he died, the government's Web site said. In addition to the crown prince and Princess Salote,he had two other sons, Alaivahama'o and Lavakes Ate Uhukakola, and 11 grandchildren.
        The king was keenly aware that as the heir of a ruling dynasty, his kind was vanishing from the world stage. But he relished the role that birth had given him and seemed to enjoy the part.
        ''I'm a bit of a pooh-bah, you know,'' he once told visiting reporters, ''except that I don't cut off any heads.''
      