
        Gilbert Jonas, a longtime fund-raiser for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 76 and made his home in Manhattan.
        Mr. Jonas died at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital, his family said. In recent years, he had suffered from several illnesses, among them myelodysplastic syndrome, a bone marrow disorder.
        From 1962 till the mid-1990's, Mr. Jonas ran the Gilbert Jonas Company, a public relations and fund-raising concern, based in Manhattan. Long active in progressive political causes, Mr. Jonas, who was white, was the N.A.A.C.P.'s chief fund-raiser from 1965 to 1995. In that period, he helped raise $110 million for the organization in donations and membership dues, he told The New York Times in June 1995.
        That month, Mr. Jonas filed suit against the N.A.A.C.P., charging fiscal impropriety and seeking nearly $4.4 million in back pay and damages. The suit was brought under a section of federal racketeering law.
        Mr. Jonas claimed officials and board members of the N.A.A.C.P. committed wire and mail fraud by soliciting donations for civil rights work that were instead used for personal expenses. He also accused the organization of failing to pay him nearly $400,000 in back pay.
        The suit was settled out of court later that summer, with the N.A.A.C.P. agreeing to pay Mr. Jonas's back pay, according to his family and news accounts.
        In other work, Mr. Jonas was a public relations adviser to the African independence movement in the late 1950's, and in the early 1960's, he was acting director of the Far East section of the Peace Corps.
        He wrote ''Freedom's Sword: The NAACP and the Struggle Against Racism in America, 1909-1969'' (Routledge, 2005), with a foreword by Julian Bond.
        Gilbert Maurice Jonas was born in Brooklyn on July 22, 1930. He earned a bachelor's degree from Stanford in 1951, followed by a certificate in Chinese studies and a master's degree in international affairs, both from Columbia. From 1953 to 1955, he served in the Army's public information office.
        Mr. Jonas's first marriage, to Barbara Selby, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Joyce Theise Jonas, whom he married in 1964; their children, Jillian Jonas of Manhattan and Stephanie Stone of Bronxville, N.Y.; a daughter from his marriage to Ms. Selby, Susan Jonas, of Manhattan; a sister, Flora Einhorn, of Boca Raton, Fla.; and one grandchild.
      