
        Roy M. Brewer, an ardent anti-Communist who headed the Hollywood branch of the movie industry's leading union of stagehands during the blacklist era, died last Saturday in West Hills, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb. He was 97.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughter, Ramona Moloski.
        As the Hollywood representative of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and Motion Picture Machine Operators, which represented movie projectionists as well as stagehands, Mr. Brewer maintained that the film industry had been infiltrated by Communists, and cooperated with the government in a campaign to root them out.
        ''No motion picture made by Communists can be good for America,'' he once said.
        Because stagehands could halt production, Mr. Brewer was a powerful force in the industry, For eight years, until 1953, he led the union's Hollywood branch, its largest.
        Mr. Brewer arrived in Hollywood at a time when his union was engaged in a bitter jurisdictional struggle with the Conference of Studio Unions. On March 12, 1945, painters from the rival union walked off their sets. ''Within a month we knew the Commies lay behind the strike,'' he later said, ''and we realized it was either us or them.''
        The dispute was eventually settled by dividing tasks between the two unions.
        Roy Martin Brewer was born on Aug. 9, 1909, in Cairo, Neb., the son of Martin Brewer, a blacksmith, and Lottie Woodworth Brewer.
        Besides his daughter, who lives in Frazier Park, Calif., he is survived by a son, Roy Jr., of Valley Village, Calif.; a sister, Myrna Johns of Gehring, Neb.; 10 grandchildren; and 20 great-grandchildren. His wife of 65 years, Alyce Auhl Brewer, died in 1994.
        Mr. Brewer began his career as a projectionist at the Capitol Theater in Grand Island, Neb., and soon became active in the union. In 1932, at the age of 23, he was elected president of the Nebraska State Federation of Labor. During World War II he worked in Washington for the War Production Board, created by the government to regulate the production and allocation of fuel and materials like metals and rubber.
        In 1947, with cold-war tensions rising, Mr. Brewer testified before the House Un-American Activities Committee, saying: ''I don't think you can stop anybody from singing the praises of Russia, if they believe it's a good country. But when he participates in American institutions and deliberately tries to subvert those institutions to become an instrument of a foreign power, that is something that is fundamentally wrong and has to be stopped.''
        Two years later, Mr. Brewer was named co-chairman -- with Ronald Reagan of the Screen Actors Guild -- of the American Federation of Labor Film Council, which represented 17 unions. In 1953, the council petitioned the government to investigate ''Salt of the Earth,'' a movie about striking miners that was being filmed with the cooperation of a mineworkers' union that had been ousted from the Congress of Industrial Organizations on the charge that it was dominated by Communists.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Brewer was vice chairman of the Council Against Communist Aggression. In a letter to The New York Times, he wrote: ''The usual cry against the committee is that it is maligning innocent people. Innocent in what respect? Innocent of membership in a party, perhaps, but not of being part of a transmission belt that has sold much of the Communist line to America and the world.''
      