
        Iris M. Ovshinsky, who along with her husband, the iconoclastic inventor Stanford R. Ovshinsky, produced cleaner automotive technologies and pushed the auto industry to embrace them, died on Aug. 16 near her home in Bloomfield Township, Mich. She was 79.
        She drowned after apparently suffering a heart attack while swimming, the township police said.
        In 1960, the Ovshinskys founded ECD Ovonics, an alternative energy company based in Rochester Hills, outside Detroit. There, among other inventions, Mr. Ovshinsky created the rechargeable nickel-metal hydride battery, often called the NiMH, which the company has produced since the 1980's and which helped lay the groundwork for today's hybrid gasoline-and-electric vehicles.
        In the forward to a new book about Mr. Ovshinsky, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, former president of Notre Dame University, writes: ''Anyone who knows ECD knows that it is as much Iris's creation as it is Stan's.'' At her death, Mrs. Ovshinsky was vice president and a director of the company, formally listed as Energy Conversion Devices.
        The couple worked closely with automakers in Detroit, but their passion for renewable and alternative sources of energy often put them at odds with the industry.
        ''You might say they were on different sides of the argument,'' said Robert C. Stempel, the former chairman of General Motors who is now chief executive of ECD Ovonics. ''They were some of the early thinkers on what could we do to not waste things. Sometimes you're challenging the conventional wisdom.''
        Mr. and Mrs. Ovshinsky figured prominently in the film ''Who Killed the Electric Car?,'' a documentary released in June about how automakers had pursued electric car technology but later abandoned it.
        Friends said she was both a voice and a sounding board for Stanford Ovshinsky's inventions. ''She was the ears of her husband,'' said Hellmut Fritzsche, a friend and scientific collaborator. ''So everybody knew that they could approach her and thereby reach him.''
        That work also helped produce the EV1, General Motors' aborted foray into the electric car market in the 1990's. The vehicle represented a technology and a cause ahead of its time, and it added to the Ovshinskys' esteem among scientists who study alternative energy.
        ''A lot of the work from the E.V. spawned a lot of the work that became the intellectual property for batteries associated with hybrid vehicles,'' said David Hermance, Toyota's executive engineer for advanced technology vehicles. ''Their work was what made E.V.'s practical, to the extent that they were practical.''
        Mr. Ovshinsky's NiMH battery was not the ideal power source for a vehicle, though it gained common use in products like cellphones and digital cameras. It was largely replaced by the lithium-ion battery, which does not need to be discharged fully before being recharged.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ovshinsky is survived by a daughter, Robin Dibner, and a son, Steven Dibner, from a previous marriage; three stepsons, Ben, Harvey and Dale Ovshinsky; and four grandchildren.
        Mr. and Mrs. Ovshinsky were perhaps known as much for their five-decade partnership as for their contributions to alternative energy.
        In an interview with PBS in 2004, Mr. Ovshinsky was asked how the two managed to work so well together. ''By being in love,'' he replied.
        Mrs. Ovshinsky added, ''We're very, very lucky.''
      