
        Dr. Robert J. Gorlin, an oral pathologist who achieved penetrating insights into genetic disorders of the head and neck and helped write a definitive medical reference work on the causes of facial malformations, died on Aug. 29 in Minneapolis. He was 83.
        The cause was complications of lymphoma, his family said.
        Dr. Gorlin trained as a dentist before moving into pathology and, ultimately, into genetic research. In the 1960's, he began to observe a syndrome in which hundreds of basal-cell skin cancers appeared all over the body, even in areas not exposed to sunlight. The cancers were sometimes accompanied by rib deformations, bone lesions, tumors or eye defects.
        He noted the combination of symptoms and helped describe the disorder, now known as Gorlin's syndrome or Gorlin-Goltz syndrome, for which there is no comprehensive therapy.
        Dr. Gorlin and others subsequently traced the syndrome to a tumor-suppressor gene, PTCH, which has been found to be defective in about one person in 60,000. He also later described two additional forms of Gorlin's syndrome that involve dwarfism and heart problems.
        At the University of Minnesota, where he was once chairman of the department of oral pathology and genetics, Dr. Gorlin studied other malformations, resulting in the identification of previously undiagnosed conditions. With Dr. M. Michael Cohen Jr., he described Gorlin-Cohen syndrome, a condition in newborns that leads to muscle wasting in the legs and the arms, hypertension and tooth abnormalities.
        Dr. Cohen, Dr. Gorlin and another researcher, Dr. Raoul Hennekam, edited an authoritative medical reference book, ''Syndromes of the Head and Neck'' (Oxford University Press), now in its fourth edition. The 1,200-page book describes another finding of Dr. Gorlin's, a benign tumor of the jaw known as Gorlin's cyst, among several thousand disorders and their histology. The volume vividly illustrates their effects on patients, in photographs and in radiographs.
        Dr. Robert M. Brandjord, an oral surgeon and the president of the American Dental Association, last week cited Dr. Gorlin's contribution to the book and his ''significant impact on oral surgery, pathology, genetics and patient care worldwide.''
        Dr. Brandjord, a former student of Dr. Gorlin, added, ''Anyone, anywhere who is involved in oral pathology has a copy of this book close at hand.''
        Dr. Gorlin also helped prepare and edit two other influential medical texts, ''Hereditary Hearing Loss and Its Syndromes'' (Oxford University Press, 1995) and ''The Malformed Infant and Child: An Illustrated Guide'' (Oxford University Press, 1983).
        Robert James Gorlin was born in Hudson, N.Y. He attended Columbia before earning his dental degree from Washington University in St. Louis, in 1947. He also received a master's degree in chemistry from the State University of Iowa.
        Dr. Gorlin taught at Columbia and Iowa before moving to Minnesota, where he became an associate professor of oral pathology in 1956. He remained at Minnesota for the rest of his career and held additional appointments in pediatrics, dermatology, obstetrics, gynecology and otolaryngology.
        He became a professor emeritus in 1993 but continued his writing and research until last month. He was a senior fellow of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Gorlin is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Marilyn Alpern. The couple lived in Golden Valley, Minn. He is also survived by a son, Dr. Jed Gorlin, a pediatric hematologist, of Hopkins, Minn.; a daughter, Cathy Gorlin of Golden Valley; and five grandchildren.
      