
        Dean E. Wooldridge, a crucial figure in the development of the technology of nuclear warfare in the 1950's, died Wednesday at a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., his hometown. He was 93.
        The cause was pneumonia, his son James said.
        Dr. Wooldridge was the ''W'' in TRW, one of the biggest military contractors of the last half century. The company merged with Northrop Grumman in 2002, creating the nation's second largest military contractor, after Lockheed Martin.
        With his colleague Simon Ramo, Dr. Wooldridge was a leading systems engineer in the development of intercontinental ballistic missiles -- the backbone of American nuclear strategy during the cold war. After World War II, when the Air Force became a separate entity from what had been the Army Air Corps, the foremost questions confronting the military involved how to protect the United States from a nuclear attack by the Soviet Union, and how, if necessary, to pursue a nuclear war.
        Drs. Wooldridge and Ramo, who had been classmates at the California Institute of Technology, formed the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation in 1953. A year later, President Dwight D. Eisenhower asked James R. Killian, the president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a panel of experts outside the government to assess the nuclear vulnerability of the United States. Their secret report, submitted in 1955, advised the nation to expedite its development of intercontinental ballistic missiles. That gave Ramo-Wooldridge a huge increase in government funds and political momentum. The company had already received the Pentagon's contract to be the technical director of the missile program.
        Then, in 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first space satellite. The implications for nuclear warfare were dramatic. That, too, gave fuel to Dr. Wooldridge's work. The company became the first to build an American spacecraft.
        Dean Everett Wooldridge was born on May 30, 1919, in Chickasha, Okla., the only child of Auttie Noonan Wooldridge, an oil broker, and Irene Kerr Wooldridge. He graduated from high school at 14. He received a bachelor's degree in physics from the University of Oklahoma in 1932 and a master's degree there a year later. In 1936, he received a Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology.
        Besides his son James, who lives in Basking Ridge, N.J., Dr. Wooldridge is survived by another son, Dean Wooldridge Jr., of Las Vegas; a daughter, Anna Lou Eklof of Bailey, Colo., and three grandchildren. His wife of 65 years, Helene Detweiler Wooldridge, died in 2001.
        After graduating from Caltech, Dr. Wooldridge was hired by the Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York. As head of electronics research there during World War II, he supervised the design of the first airborne fire-control system -- the mechanics that allowed fighter planes traveling at high speeds to hit specific targets. That technology would lead to the development of guided missiles.
        In 1946, Dr. Wooldridge returned to California to accept a post as co-director, with Dr. Ramo, of research and development at the Hughes Aircraft Company. In 1953, they resigned after a managerial dispute and formed their own company. In 1958, their company merged with its financial backer, Thompson Products, to create the TRW Corporation.
        In retirement, Dr. Wooldridge took up the study of microbiology. In 1966, Dr. Wooldridge published ''The Machinery of Life,'' (McGraw-Hill), outlining how living organisms, including humans, may have developed. Its central thesis was that given the materials and conditions provided by the earth five billion years ago, the development of modern life was an inevitable result of the laws of physical science.
        Correction:  September 27, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Dean E. Wooldridge, one of the founders of the military contractor TRW, misstated the year of his birth. It was 1913, not 1919. As the headline and obituary noted, he was 93.
      