
        Bill Stumpf, a designer of the much-honored and highly popular Aeron ergonomic office chair, died on Aug. 30 in Rochester, Minn. He was 70.
        The cause was complications of abdominal surgery, said his daughter, Carol Stumpf.
        In 1994, Mr. Stumpf and Don Chadwick, an industrial designer in Los Angeles, created the Aeron chair for Herman Miller, the furniture company in Zeeland, Mich. The chair tilts as the sitter does; since it is made of elasticized polyester mesh on an aluminum frame, it allows air to circulate. It also comes in three sizes, not unlike the chairs of the Three Bears. It is not inexpensive; the original price was $1,150. (Now in its 12th year of production, the chair is currently available for $899.)
        The Aeron became an instant classic, chosen for the permanent design collection of the Museum of Modern Art on Sept. 21, 1994, a month before its introduction at a trade fair called Orgatec in Cologne, Germany.
        For the Aeron and other designs, Mr. Stumpf won this year's National Design Award in Product Design, which is to be presented posthumously on Oct. 18 by the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in Manhattan.
        ''People forget how controversial it was, how shocking it was, when it first came out,'' said Michael Bierut, a partner at Pentagram, the international design company, and a juror for the National Design Awards. The traditional executive chair was lushly upholstered, often with leather.
        ''The idea was that upholstery equaled comfort,'' Mr. Bierut said. ''Mr. Stumpf and Mr. Chadwick discovered that comfort could be rendered in a delicate and precise and beautifully engineered way that had nothing to do with creating a throne, but with creating a perfectly calibrated machine for seating.''
        Terence Riley, the chief curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art when the chair was added to the museum's collection, recalled that ''it was a chair like no other.'' Mr. Riley said that it was Paola Antonelli, a curator at the museum, who argued for the chair's inclusion in the collection. ''The only hesitation after people sat on it and found it to be a fantastic chair was that it looked somewhat awkward, a little bit ungainly,'' he added. ''But when something is truly new, it's never going to look as one might expect it to look.''
        Mr. Stumpf also designed the Ergon chair (1976), which Herman Miller considers its first ergonomic office chair, and, again with Mr. Chadwick, the Equa chair (1984), also for Herman Miller. The chairs' combined sales total nearly 10 million units, said Mark Schurman, a company spokesman.
        Mr. Stumpf and Mr. Chadwick remained independent contractors rather than members of the company's staff,, said Clark Malcolm, a senior writer at Herman Miller. ''We don't want them to be encumbered by the internal politics, and the career pressures,'' he explained.
        Mr. Stumpf was born in St. Louis and graduated from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, with a bachelor's degree in industrial design, and from the University of Wisconsin with a master's degree in environmental design. He joined Herman Miller in 1970, but left to establish his own firm, Stumpf, Weber & Associates, in Minneapolis. He also had a studio at his home in Stockholm, Wis.
        When Mr. Stumpf, a believer in research, was designing the Aeron chair, he invited a 4-foot-11, 105-pound woman to test it, said Bill Dowell, the director of research at Herman Miller. Mr. Stumpf and Mr. Dowell asked the woman to adjust the chair to her comfort. Sometimes she had to bend from her waist to make the adjustments, and other times she had to get out of the chair.
        ''Bill said, 'Stop the presses, we're not going to produce the chair if people that size cannot make adjustments without getting out of the chair,' '' Mr. Dowell recalled. There was a year's delay in production.
        In addition to his daughter, Carol, a color designer who works in her father's office in Minneapolis, Mr. Stumpf's survivors include his wife of 49 years, Sharon; a son, Jon Stumpf; and five grandchildren. Three sons, David, Karl and Erich, died before him.
        The Aeron chair is a favorite of design connoisseurs. Paul Warwick Thompson, the director of the Cooper-Hewitt, was sitting comfortably in one on Friday.
        ''If I lean my hand against the chair, it doesn't give off clouds of dust,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''If I spill my cup of coffee on it, it doesn't leave an unsightly, sticky mess. It's clean.''
        Cleanliness was one of Mr. Stumpf's passions, as were trains. He and his wife rode Amtrak often, Mr. Malcolm said. Once, the windows on an Amtrak train were so dirty that Mr. Stumpf got out at a stop and cleaned them. Mr. Malcolm said he felt that ''if you were going to be on a train, the windows should be clean.''
      