
        John Drummond, who as director of the Edinburgh International Festival from 1979 to 1983 transformed what had been a rather formal presentation of classical music into a kaleidoscopic celebration of many arts, died on Sept. 6. Mr. Drummond, who lived in Lewes, England, was 71.
        The death was confirmed by Tara Davies, a spokeswoman for the British Broadcasting Corporation, where Mr. Drummond worked for many years both before and after his tenure at the Edinburgh festival.
        Started in 1947 under Sir Rudolf Bing, the festival billed itself as a ''gesture of cultural defiance in a world made weary by war, misery and destruction.'' Renowned soloists and conductors, including Herbert von Karajan and Leonard Bernstein, appeared there every August.
        They still performed during Mr. Drummond's five seasons as director. But he also diversified the festival's programs to include an assortment of ethnic musicians, dance performances, book fairs, art exhibits, a film festival and what he called ''street happenings.''
        ''I think young people especially are put off by the idea of dressing up for a formal occasion,'' Mr. Drummond said in 1983. ''What I have tried to do is combine the very best in formal concerts, opera, theater, with more informal things. There's no great divide.''
        Some music critics bemoaned the mixed bag. Among Mr. Drummond's most controversial decisions was the staging of foreign-language plays.
        But there was critical acclaim for Mr. Drummond in 1983 when he chose ''Vienna 1900'' as the festival's theme, drawing connections between the composers Arnold Schoenberg and Gustav Mahler, the painter Gustav Klimt and Sigmund Freud.
        John Richard Gray Drummond was born in London on Nov. 25, 1934, the son of an ocean liner captain and a singer from Australia. He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge, and soon began a series of jobs in the music and arts department of the British Broadcasting Corporation.
        For 10 years after his term with the Edinburgh festival, Mr. Drummond held executive positions at the BBC, including controller of music, director of the BBC Symphony Orchestra and director of the network's Promenade Concerts program. From 1986 to 1994, he was also chairman of Britain's National Dance Coordinating Committee.
        Mr. Drummond is survived by his partner, Bob Lockyer, a dance director at the BBC.
        Long before Mr. Drummond became its director, the staid Edinburgh festival spawned the Fringe, an unofficial sideshow of zany street performances and offbeat productions, inspiring a nickname: Festival With the Fringe on Top.
        Mr. Drummond extended the edge. ''We've benefited from having the Fringe all these years, and what I've been doing has grown out of their kind of activity,'' he said. ''We have flag wavers parading in the streets, brass groups in casual surroundings.''
        In 1995, Mr. Drummond was knighted for his contributions to music.
      