
        Joseph Hayes, who wrote the novel ''The Desperate Hours,'' which he later turned into a Tony Award-winning play and a movie, died on Sept. 11 in St. Augustine, Fla., where he lived. He was 88.
        Mr. Hayes died in a nursing home of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son Daniel Hayes.
        Though Mr. Hayes had already made it to Broadway in 1949 with a short-lived play, ''Leaf and Bough,'' he was catapulted to fame with ''The Desperate Hours,'' his 1954 suspense novel about a suburban family taken hostage at home by three escaped convicts. In his review in The New York Times, the critic Orville Prescott called it ''an expert study of the agonizing dilemma of a group of sharply delineated and deeply understood characters.''
        Immediately after the book's debut, Mr. Hayes joined with an actor-turned-producer, Howard Erskine, to bring the theatrical version to Broadway. Their production, based on Mr. Hayes's adaptation and starring a young Paul Newman, won the 1955 Tony Award for best play. Mr. Hayes also developed the novel into a screenplay; the movie, directed by William Wyler, with Humphrey Bogart in the role that Mr. Newman originated and Fredric March as the homeowner, won an Edgar Award in 1956. The film was remade in 1990 by Michael Cimino.
        The story recounted in ''The Desperate Hours'' was inspired by a number of true episodes around the country. Mr. Hayes was sued several times by families who claimed he had based his novel on their experiences, though all of those suits were unsuccessful.
        In 1955, for a photographic display accompanying an article about the Broadway play, Life magazine posed some of the actors in a house outside Philadelphia, where a similar home invasion had taken place three years earlier. James J. Hill, the father of the family that had been taken hostage, sued Time Inc., Life's parent company, arguing that the article and photographs had conflated his story with the fictional, and very different, events in Mr. Hayes's book, entitling the Hill family to damages. In 1967, the case went before the United States Supreme Court, where Mr. Hill was represented by Richard M. Nixon, then a Wall Street lawyer. The court ruled in favor of Time, citing the absence of proof of ''actual malice.'' (Actual malice is a legal term meaning knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard for the truth.) The ruling expanded the proof of malice requirement to cases involving people who are not public figures but are in the news, a significant decision in First Amendment law.
        Though he never again experienced the success he had with ''The Desperate Hours,'' Mr. Hayes continued over the next three decades to work in theater and write books, most of them crime fiction. With Mr. Erskine, he directed and produced a comedy, ''The Happiest Millionaire'' on Broadway in 1956. In 1962, he wrote a thriller, ''Calculated Risk,'' which would be his last play on Broadway.
        Mr. Hayes had long collaborated with his wife, Marrijane, on plays and books, and in 1962 they wrote ''Bon Voyage!,'' a Disney movie starring Fred MacMurray. Mrs. Hayes died in 1991.
        Joseph Arnold Hayes was born on Aug. 2, 1918, in Indianapolis, the son of a furniture factory worker. He considered joining the priesthood, but after a brief, unhappy stint in a seminary, went to Indiana University. After graduating, he left for New York, where he wrote for radio and television before his play ''Leaf and Bough'' was produced on Broadway.
        In addition to his son Daniel, of Georgetown, Fla., Mr. Hayes's survivors include two other sons, Gregory, of Atlanta, and Jason, of Juneau, Alaska; and five grandchildren.
      