
        Mickey Hargitay, the Hungarian-born bodybuilder who won the 1955 Mr. Universe title, married the voluptuous actress Jayne Mansfield and went on to have his own acting career, died Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 80.
        The cause was bone marrow cancer, said Bill Comstock, a spokesman for the family.
        At 6 foot 1 and a rippling 220 pounds, with wavy hair and a glistening smile, Mr. Hargitay parlayed his Mr. Universe crown into a show business career that, in 1956, brought him to the attention of Ms. Mansfield. He had been hired to perform as a muscleman in Mae West's nightclub act at the Latin Quarter in New York. One night, as Mr. Hargitay would tell it, Ms. Mansfield came to the show and when asked what she wanted for dinner said, ''I'll have a steak and the man on the left.''
        On Jan. 13, 1958, Ms. Mansfield and Mr. Hargitay were married. They appeared together in several movies, including ''The Loves of Hercules,'' ''Promises! Promises!'' and ''Primitive Love,'' and for a short while had a nightclub act. Mr. Hargitay's other film credits include ''Slaughter on Tenth Avenue'' and ''Bloody Pit of Horror.''
        Miklos Hargitay was born in Budapest on Jan. 6, 1926, the son of Ferenc and Maria Rothsischer Hargitay. As a teenager, he performed in an adagio acrobatic act, lifting and carrying his lithe female partner in slow balletic moves. Mr. Hargitay came to the United States in 1947 and a year later began performing a similar act with his first wife, Mary Birge. The marriage ended in divorce, as did his marriage to Ms. Mansfield, who died in a car crash in 1967.
        Mr. Hargitay is survived by his wife of 38 years, Ellen Siano Hargitay; a daughter, Mariska Hargitay, the actress who plays Detective Olivia Benson on NBC's ''Law and Order: Special Victims Unit''; two sons, Mickey Jr. and Zoltan, both of Los Angeles; another daughter, Tina West, who lives in Idaho; a sister, Eva Nemeth of Hungary; a brother, Eddie, of Bullhead City, Ariz.; 10 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, another famous bodybuilder who also went on to a movie career, considered Mr. Hargitay a role model and played him in a 1980 television movie, ''The Jayne Mansfield Story.''
      