
        Mel A. Sachs, for decades a colorful fixture of the New York City courts, who was known not only for his famous clients but also for his trademark bow ties, grandiose trial oratory and penchant for performing magic tricks before juries, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to his brother, Joel H. Sachs.
        Mel Sachs affected the dapper look of an English barrister, but his clients wore collars ranging from white to blue to no, and they ranged from the notorious to the famous to the thoroughly obscure. They included the rappers Lil' Kim and Ludacris, the music impresario Russell Simmons, the boxer Mike Tyson, the art dealer Alec Wildenstein and the New York Yankees David Wells and Derek Jeter.
        Recently, he represented Lillo Brancato Jr., the actor on ''The Sopranos'' who is charged with murder in the killing of a police officer. Mr. Sachs was also counsel for a rainbow-ish roster of organizations ranging from the Congress of Racial Equality to the Shomrim Society of the New York City Police Department, a group of Jewish officers.
        In representing clients in both criminal and civil cases, Mr. Sachs found zero contradiction in taking the side of both guardians and disruptors of the peace: his clients included not only the Port Authority Police Benevolent Association and the New York State Parole Officers' Association, but also Sante and Kenneth Kimes, the mother-and-son murderers of an Upper East Side widow, and Alejandro Henriquez, a livery-cab driver who killed a 21-year-old woman and two girls.
        The actor Sean Penn studied Mr. Sachs to prepare for his role as David Kleinfeld, the natty criminal lawyer in the 1993 film ''Carlito's Way,'' an adaptation of crime novels by Edwin Torres, a State Supreme Court justice. Justice Torres sent the actor to Mr. Sachs because ''I wanted Sean to see what a real lawyer does,'' he said later.
        Mr. Sachs was also a habitual television talking head, dispensing analysis and impassioned argument in appearances with Bill O'Reilly, Sean Hannity, Larry King and Greta Van Susteren.
        When taken to task for representing defendants some thought of as monsters, Mr. Sachs invariably thundered the phrase ''innocent until proven guilty'' while delivering a lecture that usually ended: ''The search for truth would be ill served if defendants did not have strong advocacy at all times.''
        Though born in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, an ocean away from Old Bailey, Mr. Sachs arrived in court turned out in custom-tailored three-piece, double-breasted, pleated, English-fabric suits with lapeled vests. Of course they had watch pockets, filled by what was, in fact, his brother's gold timepiece, which Mr. Sachs was wont to flourish.
        Mr. Sachs also had as a client the magician David Copperfield, a representation that was unsurprising, given that Mr. Sachs began performing magic at the age of 8 and made his first television appearance three years later on a children's show, ''The Magic Clown.'' He found his skill useful when demonstrating to juries why they should mistrust the testimony of eyewitnesses.
        Mr. Sachs went from Boston University to Brooklyn Law School to a three-year stint at the Legal Aid Society before starting his own practice as a lone wolf navigating the treacheries of the criminal bar.
        He spent decades in the cheerful, but assiduous, cultivation of court clerks, court officers, judges and other trial lawyers -- whose relatives he sometimes represented -- and was a master of navigating the No. 4 train to trial courts in Brooklyn, Manhattan and the Bronx. He often made this subway circuit ride several times a day.
        He is survived by his wife, Grace; a daughter, Jaclyn; a son, Harrison; and his brother.
        Reporters in the press room at the city's busiest courthouse, at 100 Centre Street, were accustomed to frequent, unscheduled visits from Mr. Sachs, who, unasked, held forth on his cases, the state of the world and the excellence of his tailor on the Lower East Side.
        In his office, near the Manhattan courts, Mr. Sachs would often point journalists and clients alike to a sign on the wall that said, ''Have Faith in God and Mel Sachs.''
      