
        Ivan Luini, who, as founder and president of the New York-based Kartell U.S. Inc., helped bring plastic furniture out of the garden and into the American living room, died on Friday in a small-plane crash in Moffat County, Colo., near the Wyoming border. Mr. Luini was 46 and lived in New York City and Sag Harbor, N.Y. Sergio Savarese also died in the crash.
        Mr. Luini and Mr. Savarese, avid pilots and good friends, were killed in the crash of a Cirrus SR20, a four-seat, single-engine aircraft that they co-owned and were flying cross-country on a business trip to visit stores, family members said.
        According to Jennifer Kaiser, an air safety investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board, the plane has a parachute system for emergencies, and it deployed at a low altitude before impact. She said the pilot reported icing conditions and turbulence, and an inability to maintain altitude, but it is not known which man was at the controls.
        Mr. Luini, a tireless cheerleader for Italian design that was accessible, affordable and, above all, functional, was a native of Varese, Italy, with a background in electronics engineering and a passion for flying. From 1986 to 1990, he was vice president for overseas sales at B & B Italia, a furniture company.
        Later, moving from Milan to New York, he worked for a company that introduced Cappellini, Flexform, Ingo Maurer and other design brands to the country. In 1994, he co-founded Luceplan USA Inc., an innovative lighting company, serving as executive vice president until 1998.
        Back in the mid-80's and through the 90's, before the advent of Ikea, Lucky and Wallpaper* magazines, it was easier to buy an automobile in the United States than a contemporary sofa. High-style furnishings were generally hidden behind the walls of elite showrooms, accessible mostly to architects and designers, with the exception of a few young retailers. Mr. Luini was determined to change that.
        In 1998, He became president of Kartell U.S., a subsidiary of the Milan furniture manufacturer Kartell s.p.a. The company's worldwide president, Claudio Luti, who had previously worked for the Versace organization, was intent on upgrading the company's image. Mr. Luti signed furniture designers like Antonio Citterio, Philippe Starck, Piero Lissoni and Ron Arad, among others, to create new products, expanding the company's library of classic designs by Joe Columbo, Anna Castelli Ferrieri and Gae Aulenti.
        Mr. Luini opened the company's first American store on Greene Street in New York in 1998 and helped develop its own well-stocked stores in Miami, San Francisco, Atlanta, Boston and Los Angeles, where customers no longer needed to wait weeks for delivery. Recently he was in discussions to add Kartell's plastic chairs, storage units and lighting to a new chain of hotels and restaurants designed by Philippe Starck, which are expected to open next year, according to Michele Caniato, Mr. Starck's agent.
        ''He has rebranded plastic, selling plastic furniture to a higher level of consumers and designers, where once it was just sold to the masses,'' said one admirer, George M. Beylerian, chief executive and president of Material ConneXion, a global materials library in New York.
        Mr. Luini was one of the leading promoters of change in the marketplace, said Paola Antonelli, acting chief curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art. ''In the past 10 years, the new generation is most self-assured about design and can appreciate plastic. It's the doing of the Internet, the influence of Apple and Ikea, and the fact that the technology of plastic has changed so much. It's more beautiful to the touch, more stable to light and temperature and resistant to abrasion. It's not your white plastic garden chair anymore.''
        Not at $300, the price of the Louis Ghost chair by Mr. Starck.
        Mr. Luini is survived by his wife, Micaela; their son, Mattia, 14; his father, Cesare; and his sister, Laura, who both live in Milan.
      