
        Richard L. Blinder, who as a founding partner of the architecture firm Beyer Blinder Belle played a leading role in projects like the Rubin Museum of Art and the former Ford Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan, died yesterday in Shanghai, where he was working on a theater complex. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death has not been determined, said his wife, Ellen, who said he died while sleeping.
        While Beyer Blinder Belle is best known for historic preservation projects such as the renovation of Grand Central Terminal and the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, Mr. Blinder's strongest enthusiasm lay in places for the visual and performing arts.
        Most recently, his colleagues said, he had been consumed by the Shanghai project, a planned theater complex in that city's Luwan district. He had spent half his time in China during the last six months overseeing the design process.
        It was Mr. Blinder's idea to open the Beijing office in 2005. ''The China adventure had given him new blood and new life and it was wonderful to see,'' said John Belle, one of his partners. ''I just wish he had stayed long enough to enjoy the fruits of it.''
        Mr. Blinder (rhymes with tinder) grew up in New York and earned his master's degree in architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1960.
        He started the firm with Mr. Belle and John H. Beyer in 1968. The three had met in 1961 while working in the New York office of Victor Gruen, an Austrian-born architect known as the father of the American shopping mall. Inspired by the writings of Jane Jacobs, the founding of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission and a renewed local respect for New York's architectural legacy, the trio developed a specialty in historic preservation. Their makeover of the main building on Ellis Island as a museum, which they, along with Notter, Finegold & Alexander, completed in 1990, helped them land the commission for their widely acclaimed restoration of Grand Central, completed in 1998.
        As the lead architect for the Rubin Museum of Art in the former Barneys store on West 17th Street in Chelsea, housing art from the Himalayas, Mr. Blinder oversaw the incorporation of a new entrance that was meant to evoke the mandala, a form representing the universe in Hindu and Buddhist imagery.
        He was also the lead architect for cultural projects like the Center for Jewish History in Chelsea and the Henry Luce III Center for the Study of American Culture at the New-York Historical Society, where interior glass walls were placed behind the exhibits so visitors could watch curators at work.
        In the 1990's Mr. Blinder also oversaw a renovation of the Japan Society building, on East 47th Street in Manhattan, in which the firm sought to adhere to classic Japanese principles while carving out additional space for gallery exhibitions. In Montclair, N.J., where he lived for 28 years, he designed a new wing for the Montclair Art Museum.
        He led the team that created the Ford Center for the Performing Arts (now the Hilton Theater) in 1997 in the Times Square district, incorporating vintage elements of the razed Lyric and Apollo Theaters.
        In 1998 he helped found the Seventh Regiment Armory Conservancy, where he also served as a trustee. He maintained a commitment to community-based work that started in the 1960's with his rehabilitation of affordable housing for New York residents.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Blinder is survived by his daughter, Karen, of Bethesda, Md.; his son, Michael, of New York; and a grandson.
        Mr. Blinder was known as a quiet force, less chatty than his two partners, but he did not hesitate to speak out when it came to issues he was devoted to.
        In 1998, alarmed by the prospect that the New York Yankees might relocate to Manhattan from the Bronx, Mr. Blinder prepared a proposal at the behest of Fernando Ferrer, then Bronx borough president, to restore the stadium's historic entrance porticos and copper friezes in addition to building a new, glass-enclosed concourse.
        At the time, Mr. Blinder said he did the study for only $25,000 because he deemed the prospect of a Manhattan move ''horrible.''
        When plans for a new Yankee Stadium in the Bronx were being debated last year, Mr. Blinder expressed his views about the team's historical legacy in a letter to the editor in The New York Times.
        ''What is important is not the building itself but the playing field, which in sports history is hallowed ground,'' he wrote. ''You can no more move that field a few hundred yards to the west than you can relocate Gettysburg.''
      