
        Norman Kelley, a tenor who sang with the New York City Opera, the Metropolitan Opera and many other companies around the world, died last Monday in Rockland, Mass. He was 95.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, from which he had suffered for many years, said Lisa Waitt Belcher of the Waitt Funeral Home in Brockton, Mass.
        In the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Kelley was a stalwart of the City Opera troupe, where his roles included the title part in the world premiere of Robert Kurka's ''Good Soldier Schweik'' in 1958; the piece was recently revived at Glimmerglass. On Broadway, he had a small role in Gian Carlo Menotti's short-lived ''Maria Golovin,'' which ran for five performances in the same year. He made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1957 as Mime in the ''Ring'' cycle, but his longest-lasting legacy at that house may have been his English translation of Humperdinck's ''Hansel and Gretel,'' first performed in 1967 and used for decades thereafter.
        Norman Kelley was born on Aug. 27, 1911, in Eddington, Maine. He studied at the New England Conservatory, Pasadena College and then Eastman. He served in the military from 1940 to 1945, appearing on the radio show ''Fort Bragg Salutes America.'' By 1948, he was appearing in New York with the San Carlo Opera as Alfredo in ''Traviata.''
        Specializing in character roles, Mr. Kelley took part in the wealth of new operas City Opera regularly presented in what Harold C. Schonberg, in 1961, termed ''the decade of new American operas,'' appearing in Robert Ward's ''Crucible,'' Douglas Moore's ''Wings of the Dove'' and Carlisle Floyd's ''Passion of Jonathan Wade.''
        He was by no means a new-music specialist, however. Another career highlight was an ''Abduction From the Seraglio'' in Stratford, Conn., part of a Mozart bicentenary festival in 1956 arranged under the aegis of Lincoln Kirstein and George Balanchine, with Erich Leinsdorf as music director. Mr. Kelley was also beloved for his many performances with the City Center Gilbert and Sullivan Company, led by Julius Rudel.
        Mr. Kelley was divorced; he leaves an extended family, but no immediate survivors were announced.
      