
        Warren Bolster, whose innovative photography helped popularize surfing and skateboarding, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Mokuleia, Hawaii. He was 59.
        The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Janet Tramonte, Mr. Bolster's sister.
        For decades, Mr. Bolster remained perhaps the most recognized photographer in surfing and skateboarding. He obsessively sought ways to shoot from unusual and dramatic angles, for example, by mounting a waterproof camera with a gyrostabilizer and a wide-angle lens on a surfboard to shoot the tumbling, tubular interior of a wave's curl. Using airtight capsules, he managed to take images that showed his subject from both above and below the waterline.
        He persuaded top surfers to let him mount cameras on the noses of their boards to photograph them on the waves from out front. He would often paddle or swim into huge surf with a waterproof camera to capture big-wave surfers.
        ''Even then, he would look out at a surf break and see something special and just work till he got that shot, never thinking about the danger or hurting himself,'' Ms. Tramonte said.
        Warren Edward Bolster was born on June 11, 1947, in Arlington, Va. His father, Edward Bolster, was an American diplomat assigned to Sydney, Australia, in the early 1960's. There, a teenage Warren took up surfing and began writing newspaper articles about it, accompanying them with his photographs.
        Back in the United States, he enrolled in a Florida junior college and began surfing competitively and photographing surfing. He moved to San Diego and was quickly successful in shooting for surf magazines.
        In the mid-1970's he began documenting a little-known culture of skateboarders riding light, flexible boards with urethane wheels. Those skateboarders could do incredibly graceful things on the street and in empty bowl-shaped swimming pools, and the sport began attracting top surfers.
        His photos -- showing lithe, long-haired California teenagers, often barefoot and wearing no protective gear while executing daring and graceful moves -- helped turn Skateboarder Magazine into the standard-bearer in the industry and helped fuel the mass popularization of skateboarding.
        For skateboarding, he managed to convey the sense of thrusting motion by using speed blurs and strobe lights, as well as fisheye lenses and motor-drives. His work helped elevate a hobby for teenagers to a mode of individual expression and a social movement.
        Many prominent skateboarders, including Tony Hawk, credit Mr. Bolster's inspiring photography with opening up new forms of skateboarding style. Mr. Bolster's images, many of which were featured in the 2001 documentary ''Dogtown and Z-Boys,'' became studies in line and flowing perspective and balance.
        Mr. Bolster would eventually return to the ocean, remaining a staff photographer at Surfer Magazine until 1992. In the ocean he took tremendous risks, shooting extremely close to surfers and sometimes in breaking waves. He survived collisions with surfers and huge walls of wave.
        Plagued by years of injuries, surgery and chronic pain, he was most recently afflicted by a faulty hip replacement and a car accident that virtually stopped him from working in big surf.
        Mr. Bolster, who was twice divorced, is survived by his teenage sons, Edward and Warren Jr., of Hawaii, and by Ms. Tramonte of Arlington and his mother, Elizabeth Bolster, of Williamsburg, Va. His ashes were scattered yesterday in the Hawaiian surf off of Moanalua Bay in Oahu during a ceremony that included a Hawaiian religious leader and local surfers on their boards.
      