
        William B. Ziff Jr., a publishing executive who made publications like Car and Driver and PC Magazine must reading among hobbyists and computer enthusiasts, died Saturday at his home in Pawling, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his son Dirk said.
        Mr. Ziff, a polymath with a photographic memory, led his family's company to the vanguard of niche magazines -- twice. First with hobbyist magazines like Car and Driver and Popular Photography, and then with computer-oriented titles like PC Magazine, Ziff-Davis reached devoted readers and the advertisers who coveted them.
        ''We used to joke that he could see the future,'' William Lohse, a former Ziff-Davis president and publisher, said. ''One time I joked about that with him, and he said that he just saw things as they were in the present, while others only looked at the past.''
        Though magazines were a family business -- his father, William, co-founded Ziff-Davis in 1927 -- Mr. Ziff had not intended to join the company. But when his father died in 1953, Mr. Ziff returned to New York from Germany, where he was studying philosophy, to take over the company.
        After buying out the co-founder Bernard Davis in the mid-1950's, Mr. Ziff transformed Ziff-Davis into a niche-magazine powerhouse. He acquired enthusiast titles like Car and Driver and trade publications like World Aviation Directory that buoyed profit at a time when general-interest publications like Life were losing steam.
        In each instance, Mr. Ziff applied a rigorous formula that focused on tapping not only enthusiasts but readers -- or ''brand specifiers'' -- who held purchasing power in their companies. Salesmen could then aim at the advertisers who wanted those audiences.
        The formula, which Mr. Lohse attributed to Mr. Ziff's sales instincts, worked. At the height of their popularity, titles like PC Magazine and Computer Shopper often weighed in with hundreds of pages, brimming with ads.
        Yet a sharp shift took hold of the company in the 1980's. Mr. Ziff was found to have prostate cancer in 1978 and was told he had only a few years to live. In 1984, he sold the consumer and business magazines that had made his family fortune for $712.5 million.
        What remained were a few computer titles like PC Magazine, which Ziff-Davis bought in 1982. Yet Mr. Ziff had proved prescient: the rise of personal computing bolstered Ziff-Davis and powered it to the top of the technology magazine business.
        ''My dad was really there for the start of the computer revolution,'' Robert Ziff said, citing a 1975 Popular Electronics cover featuring the Altair computer. That issue, he said, inspired a young subscriber named Bill Gates, who later founded Microsoft, to begin programming for the computer.
        By the 1990's, however, Mr. Ziff faced a choice. Years earlier, he told his sons -- Dirk, Robert and Daniel -- that if they did not want to take over Ziff-Davis, he would sell it.
        They chose not to, and in 1994, the company announced that it would sell its publishing group to Forstmann Little & Company for $1.4 billion. Ziff-Davis also sold its electronic publishing unit and its exhibitions and conferences division.
        William Bernard Ziff Jr. was born June 24, 1930. He graduated from Rutgers University.
        In addition to his three sons, who run Ziff Brothers Investments in Manhattan, Mr. Ziff is survived by his second wife, Tamsen Ann Ziff.
      