
        Byron Nelson, the winner of a record 11 consecutive professional golf tournaments in 1945 and one of golf's most renowned figures, died yesterday at his home in Roanoke, Tex. He was 94.
        The Tarrant County Medical Examiner's Office said he died of natural causes, The Associated Press reported.
        Emerging as a dominant player during the late 1930's and early 40's, Nelson possessed exquisite form, his aggressive lower-body action and ''square'' club position becoming the model for the modern golf swing. Long after he retired, the United States Golf Association used a robot named Iron Byron, which replicated his form, to test balls and clubs.
        Nelson won the Masters twice, the P.G.A. Championship twice and the United States Open once. His triumphs in those five majors were among his 52 tournament victories, placing him No. 6 on the PGA Tour career list.
        His 18 tournament victories in 1945 remain a single-season record. In the 1940's, he made 113 consecutive tournament cuts, a total exceeded only by Tiger Woods, who passed him in 2003. Nelson was named male athlete of the year for 1944 and 1945 in an Associated Press poll of sportswriters and broadcasters.
        Nelson was known as Lord Byron, the nickname bestowed by the Atlanta sports journalist O. B. Keeler. The Dallas Open in suburban Irving, Tex., became known as the Byron Nelson Golf Classic in 1968 and is now the EDS Byron Nelson Championship. It was at that event, in May 2005, when Woods's record streak of making consecutive cuts ended at 142.
        ''I have big hands, but with a lot of feel,'' Nelson told The New York Times in 1993 in accounting for his superb shotmaking. ''The Lord gave me good coordination, a great rhythm and wonderful balance. I had an absolutely uncanny judgment of distance. And even though folks couldn't always see it, I had a very big desire to achieve. I got pretty steamed up inside.''
        Tommy Armour, a winner of 25 PGA Tour events, was quoted by Golf Digest as having said: ''Even when Nelson is only halfway putting, he can't be beaten. He plays golf shots like a virtuoso. There is no problem he can't handle -- high shots, low shots, with the wind or across it, hooks or fades, he has absolute control of the ball. He is the finest golfer I have ever seen.''
        Arnold Palmer, in a statement yesterday, called Nelson ''one of the greatest players who ever lived.''
        Nelson was noted especially for his low iron shots. A signature moment came at the 1939 United States Open, when his 210-yard 1-iron shot resulted in an eagle on the fourth hole of a second 18-hole playoff, propelling him to the championship over Craig Wood.
        John Byron Nelson Jr. grew up on a ranch near Waxahachie, Tex., and first arrived on the golf scene as a 12-year-old caddie at the Glen Garden Country Club in Fort Worth, where a young man named Ben Hogan was also caddying.
        Nelson turned pro in 1932 and worked as a club professional in Texarkana., Tex., in Ridgewood, N.J., in Reading, Pa., and at the Inverness Club in Toledo, Ohio.
        He won the Masters in 1937, and after his United States Open playoff victory in 1939, he captured the P.G.A. Championship in 1940 and the Masters again in 1942. He won the P.G.A. for a second time in 1945, part of a tournament-victory streak perhaps more improbable than even Joe DiMaggio's celebrated 56-game hitting streak with the Yankees in 1941.
        Early in the 1945 season, Nelson gained confidence when he defeated Sam Snead in a playoff at a tournament in Charlotte, N.C., the first of his 11 consecutive triumphs from early March through early August. He also tightened his focus, having gleaned from personal notes on his play in 1944 -- part of his Little Black Book, dating to 1935 -- that he often hit careless approach shots.
        ''What I did in 1945 was mostly a mental achievement,'' he recalled. ''In those days, I could drive the ball so well that I would really get bored. I just decided I was not going to hit one careless shot. Plus, I had the focus of the ranch.''
        Nelson needed $55,000 to purchase ranchland, something he had long coveted. In his memoir ''How I Played the Game,'' he recalled: ''Each drive, each iron, each chip, each putt was aimed at the goal of getting that ranch. And each win meant another cow, another acre, another 10 acres, another part of the down payment.''
        Nelson's winnings in 1945 -- about $63,000 in war bonds -- enabled him to buy a 740-acre spread in Roanoke, near Dallas. He named it Fairway Ranch. It became his home for the rest of his life.
        Nelson was so dominant in 1945 that he captured his 11 straight victories by an average of 6.67 strokes. In addition to winning 18 tournaments that year, he finished second seven times. His stroke average in 1945 was 68.34, a record at the time, for 112 rounds.
        Nelson was deferred from military service during World War II because of a blood disorder. Questions have been raised as to whether his 1945 season loses some luster because many of his leading opponents were in the armed forces. But Snead and Hogan each competed against Nelson in many events that season.
        ''All of that talk about no competition never really bothered me,'' Nelson once said, ''because, you see, I know how I played. Maybe I wouldn't have won 18 tournaments, or 11 in a row, but I played wonderfully well.''
        In ''The Game I Love,'' Sam Snead wrote, ''During his streak year of 1945, Byron was magical.''
        As Snead recalled: ''He had grooved his swing and was pretty happy with it, so during the streak he stopped practicing. He would arrive at the course, warm up a bit, hit out a dozen balls, hit a few putts to get comfortable with the speed of the greens, and then go shoot 65!''
        Growing weary of travel and publicity demands, Nelson retired from full-time play after the 1946 season, at age 34. But he tied for second in the 1947 Masters and he won the French Open in 1955. His 52 PGA Tour victories have been exceeded only by Snead (82 victories), Jack Nicklaus (73), Hogan (64), Arnold Palmer (62) and Tiger Woods (53).
        Nelson later tutored several leading golfers, most notably Tom Watson and Ken Venturi, and served as a golf analyst for ABC.
        A devout man who attended prayer meetings and church regularly, Nelson did not smoke or drink, and his only regret, as he told it, was having associated his name with a cigarette company in 1936 for a $500 fee that he later tried to return with no success.
        Nelson is survived by his second wife, Peggy. His first wife, Louise, died in 1985 in their 51st year of marriage.
        In his spectacular 1945 season, Nelson was pressed during only three tournaments, the last close call coming against Mike Turnesa in the second round of match play at the P.G.A. Championship in Dayton, Ohio. With 4 of their 36 holes to play, Turnesa was 2-up, but Nelson eagled the 35th hole to go 1-up and parred the final hole to maintain his lead.
        ''I was seven under and still lost,'' Turnesa lamented. ''How the hell are you supposed to beat this man?''
      