
        Dr. A. James Rowan, a noted expert on epilepsy who studied the disease in the elderly and helped investigate more effective medications to prevent seizures, died on Aug. 27 in Manhattan. He was 71.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        In 1998, Dr. Rowan, a neurologist at Mount Sinai Medical Center, and others began a study of about 600 epilepsy patients aged 60 and older under treatment in Veterans Affairs hospitals across the country. The researchers compared the effectiveness of three antiseizure medications, and reviewed dosages and potential problems that older patients experience in metabolizing the drugs.
        The study found that many patients fared better with the two newer medications -- gabapentin and lamotrigine -- and were more likely to tolerate them without nausea, weight gain or other side affects associated with another antiseizure drug, carbamazepine. The results were published in the journal Neurology in 2004.
        Dr. R. Eugene Ramsay, a neurologist and director of the University of Miami's International Center for Epilepsy, helped lead the study and credited Dr. Rowan with ''making us look at the older patient differently -- and as a patient that often needs a lower dose of antiseizure drugs than once was thought.''
        In other work, Dr. Rowan was interested in recording brainwaves and their interpretation through electroencephalography, or EEG. At Mount Sinai and other institutions, he taught residents how to read the EEG, to identify abnormalities captured by the machine and to spot patterns that distinguish epilepsy from other types of seizures. With Dr. Eugene Tolunsky, he wrote about the subject in a book widely used by neurology residents, ''Primer of EEG'' (2003).
        With another neurologist, Dr. Steven C. Schachter, Dr. Rowan also edited an account of epilepsy from the patient's viewpoint. That book was ''The Brainstorms Healer: Epilepsy in Our Experience'' (1998).Arbe James Rowan was born in Los Angeles. He earned an undergraduate degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his medical degree from Stanford.
        He taught at Columbia before being named an assistant professor of neurology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1971. In 1980, Dr. Rowan joined Mount Sinai, where he was a professor of neurology and a former vice chairman of the neurology department. Since the 1980's, he had served as chief of the neurology service at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx. He was also affiliated with Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. Dr. Rowan is survived by his wife of 30 years, Rita. The couple lived in Manhattan and Greenville, N.Y. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by a stepson, David M. Korn of Manhattan.
      