
        Dr. Olga Jonasson, a transplant surgeon and medical administrator who played an early and leading role in encouraging women to enter male-dominated surgical specialties, died on Aug. 30 in Chicago. She was 72.
        The death was confirmed by colleagues at the University of Illinois at Chicago, where Dr. Jonasson was a professor of surgery from 1975 to 1987.
        Beginning in the 60's, Dr. Jonasson (pronounced JOHN-uh-sun) was a prominent figure in a field in which women were unusual and few held positions of authority. Decades later, when she joined Ohio State University in the late 1980's, Dr. Jonasson was believed to be the only woman serving as head of a university department of surgery.
        In 1978, she explained to The New York Times, ''The decisions of the surgeon as team leader are final, and men have simply been unwilling to accept women in that role of the all-powerful decision maker.''
        As a clinician and researcher, Dr. Jonasson was interested in immunological questions in organ transplantation, especially in kidney and pancreas transplants. She studied antirejection drugs, known as immunosuppressors, that fool the body's immune system into accepting unfamiliar tissue and organs.
        At Illinois, she helped found a laboratory to test for compatibility between organ donors and potential recipients. She also wrote about the surgical complications of operating on patients with diabetes. Earlier in her career, Dr. Jonasson helped examine the potential for a harmful dispersal of tumor cells into the bloodstream when tumors are removed during surgery.
        Dr. Truman O. Anderson, a former dean of the Illinois medical school, recalled Dr. Jonasson's ''remarkable skills as a surgeon'' and her facility in teaching residents and surgeons in training.
        She ''proved that in teaching students setting an example is more than important -- it is the only thing,'' Dr. Anderson said.
        The daughter of a nurse, Olga Jonasson was born in Peoria, Ill. She attended Northwestern University and in 1958, she received her medical degree from the University of Illinois.
        After training at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research and at Massachusetts General Hospital, she was named an instructor in surgery at Illinois in 1963. She remained as a professor of surgery before moving to Ohio State in 1987.
        From 1977 to 1987, she was chief of surgery at Cook County Hospital in Chicago. She was also a former chief of the division of transplantation surgery at the University of Illinois Hospital.
        In 1985, she was appointed to a federal panel of physicians and administrators assembled to advise the secretary of health and human services about the safety of antirejection drugs in transplant surgery.
        Dr. Jonasson left no immediate survivors.
      