
        Sheldon Binn, an editor at The New York Times who guided the newspaper's coverage of New York government and politics for nearly two decades and who mentored two generations of reporters, died yesterday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 83.The cause was cardiac arrest, his son, Joshua, said.
        As night city editor in the 1960's and early 1970's, Mr. Binn, known as Shelly, oversaw the metropolitan coverage that had been done during the day. Determining which articles would run and at what length, he was the hand, unseen by readers, that shaped the daily news report. Reporters lined up at his desk in late afternoon to hear, one by one, his rapid assessment of their stories. His judgment was rarely questioned.
        After recuperating from a heart attack he had in the newsroom in 1972, he was put in charge of coverage of New York government and politics.
        Reporters who worked under him said his enthusiasm for a good story was unflagging and his integrity unshakeable. He kept his own political views private and insisted that they keep their political opinions out of their writing.
        ''He remained a formidable lesson in never ruining the telling of an honest story with tainted polemics,'' said Francis X. Clines, a longtime correspondent and now an editorial writer for The Times.
        Sheldon Jerome Binn grew up in the Bronx, where he attended DeWitt Clinton High School. He graduated from Rutgers Preparatory School in New Brunswick, N.J., and while a student at the University of Wisconsin, he enlisted in the Army soon after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
        On Nov. 3, 1944, as an antitank gunner in Holland, he was gravely wounded by mortar fire. He lost an eye, suffered severe chest wounds and required a metal plate in his head.
        After earning a bachelor's degree in journalism from Wisconsin in 1947, he worked as a reporter for The Mansfield News Journal in Ohio and Newsday on Long Island before joining The New York World-Telegram & The Sun, where he began his career as an editor. In 1957 he moved to The Times, where he remained until his retirement in 1989.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Ruth Chudnoff; two daughters, Lucy and Deborah; a brother, Mark; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Binn read voraciously, and even as a young man he had an almost insatiable interest in politics.
        He was unconscious for four days after being wounded in the war. ''When he woke up,'' Joshua Binn said, ''his first question was whether Roosevelt had won the election.''
      