
        Armin H. Meyer, a former United States ambassador to Lebanon, Iran and Japan, died Aug. 13 in Washington. He was 92.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Kathleen White of Bethesda, Md.
        Mr. Meyer was ambassador to Lebanon from 1961 to 1965, to Iran from 1965 to 1969 and to Japan from 1969 to 1972. His tour in Japan was particularly challenging, Mr. Meyer wrote in a profile of his diplomatic career, because he faced the task of ''easing the shock of President Nixon's historic breakthrough to China.''
        Mr. Meyer also presided over negotiations leading to the return of Japanese sovereignty over the island of Okinawa, which had been under American control since the end of World War II.
        Armin Henry Meyer was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., on Jan. 19, 1914, one of five children of Armin P. and Leona Buss Meyer. His father was a Lutheran minister. His mother died when he was 3, and Mr. Meyer was raised by three aunts in Lincoln, Ill.
        Mr. Meyer graduated from Capital University, a Lutheran seminary in Columbus, Ohio, in 1939. Two years later, he earned a master's degree in mathematics at Ohio State University. In 1943, Mr. Meyer, a self-taught radio technician, joined the staff of the United States Office of War Information in Cairo.
        After similar postwar service in Iraq, Lebanon and Afghanistan, Mr. Meyer returned to the United States to work at the State Department, eventually rising to deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs.
        Mr. Meyer was appointed ambassador to Lebanon by President John F. Kennedy, and he remained in that post until he was named ambassador to Iran.
        In 1973, Mr. Meyer returned to the State Department and headed a task force studying international terrorism that President Richard M. Nixon created after the killings of 11 Israelis at the Olympics in Munich the previous year.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Meyer is survived by his wife of 57 years, Alice James Meyer, and a granddaughter.
      