
        Dr. Michael S. Mamakos, part of a Long Island medical team that successfully reattached a child's severed leg in 1978, early in the development of microsurgery, died on Monday at his home in Huntington, N.Y. He was 80.
        The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Mamakos (pronounced ma-MAH-kose), a microvascular surgeon, was one of four surgeons who responded after a Long Island Rail Road train struck Elizabeth McFadden, an 11-year-old girl, who was crossing the tracks near the Central Islip station on Dec. 31, 1978.
        At the time, surgical teams had reattached fingers and toes on other patients, but techniques for reconnecting limbs were still in their infancy. In a six-hour operation at Smithtown General Hospital, Dr. Mamakos and his colleagues inserted a steel rod into the girl's femur and reattached her right leg, which had been severed above the knee. They connected an artery, veins and nerves and later grafted skin to close the wound. The girl left the hospital three months later, her injured leg intact.
        The procedure was closely followed, and Dr. Mamakos, who was also a cosmetic plastic surgeon, described it in two articles in the journal Annals of Plastic Surgery.
        He was medical director of Huntington Surgery Center, an ambulatory-surgery private practice, at which he performed hand and facial procedures. Dr. Mamakos continued to practice until last month, and was affiliated with Huntington Hospital and St. Catherine of Siena Medical Center in Smithtown.
        Michael Speros Mamakos was born in Sunbury, Pa. He attended Long Island University and received his medical degree from the American University in Beirut in 1956.
        Dr. Mamakos's former wife Jean Perrenod Mamakos, a surgical nurse, helped care for him during his illness. A previous marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by a daughter, Lisa, a medical student, of Roseau, Dominica; two sons, Michael, of Los Angeles, and Paul, of Charlottesville, Va.; and a brother, Peter, of Los Angeles.
      