
        Marc Hodler, the senior Swiss member of the International Olympic Committee, who in 1998 exposed widespread bribe-taking among the Olympic delegates who decided where the Games would take place, died Wednesday in Bern, Switzerland. He was 87.
        The cause was complications after a stroke he had on Sunday, said his son Beat Hodler.
        A member of the I.O.C. since 1963, Mr. Hodler blew the whistle on Dec. 12, 1998, on widespread corruption in the bidding process for the 2002 Winter Games and several previous Olympic bids. The ensuing scandal led to an overhaul of the committee and the departure of 10 delegates.
        ''The I.O.C. expresses its sadness at the passing of a member who dedicated so much to the Olympic movement,'' the committee's current president, Jacques Rogge, said in a statement Wednesday.
        A passionate sports fan and successful lawyer, Mr. Hodler was confident enough with languages to defend his clients in court in German, French or English. He owed his seat on the International Olympic Committee to his presidency of the International Ski Federation, or F.I.S., an office he held from 1951 until 1998. He had just relinquished that post when a local television station in Salt Lake City began reporting on payoffs that won that city the 2002 bid, at which point Hodler released his bombshells.
        ''He had just left our federation, and that's what gave him the freedom to attack,'' said Gian Franco Kasper, Mr. Hodler's protégé and successor at the F.I.S. ''He had always known what went on, but now he had the proof. He was a lawyer and he knew about libel.''
        Mr. Kasper, who remains the F.I.S. president and an I.O.C. member, said Mr. Hodler was motivated by a belief that ''sport was above everything.''
        ''When something of the world's corruption infected sport itself, it hurt him very much,'' Mr. Kasper said.
        The president of the committee at the time, Juan Antonio Samaranch, put Mr. Hodler, a former vice president of the I.O.C., in charge of a panel to examine the spiraling cost of bids. With his oversight, Mr. Hodler had an intimate view of the institutionalized bribery just as the public was made aware of it.
        Standing in the lobby of the I.O.C. headquarters in Lausanne, Mr. Hodler told stunned reporters of million-dollar exchanges influencing votes for Games that went to Atlanta, Nagano and Sydney.
        ''It was like Christmas,'' said the investigative journalist Andrew Jennings, author of several books on corruption in the sporting world. ''There were quite a few jewel-handled daggers aimed at his back after that.''
        Mr. Hodler's candor is widely believed to have scuttled the chances of Switzerland's candidacy for the 2006 Games, which went to Turin, Italy. When the Swiss city of Sion was passed over in that vote, Swiss newspapers blamed Mr. Hodler, hurting him deeply, Mr. Kasper said.
        Born Oct. 26, 1918, Mr. Hodler grew up in Mürren, Switzerland, a mountainside village across a glacial valley from the Eiger and Jungfrau peaks. One of the settings for ''On Her Majesty's Secret Service,'' the James Bond movie, Mürren is still inaccessible by automobile.
        It is also the birthplace of Alpine ski racing, a sport whose existence coincided with Mr. Hodler's own; as a youngster, he was coached by his neighbor Sir Arnold Lunn, the Englishman who invented slalom racing in Mürren in 1922.
        Mr. Hodler excelled in the sport and was a member of the Swiss national ski team until 1938, when a serious leg injury ended his career. He immediately became the team's coach, a role he filled until 1948, when he took a job coordinating the Alpine skiing events for the 1948 Winter Games in St. Moritz. Three years after that, he took the helm of the F.I.S.
        In addition to his son Beat, Mr. Hodler is survived by another son, Martin, and his wife, Anna Rosa.
        In 1972, Mr. Hodler was at the center of the battle within the Olympic movement over the question of athletes' amateur status, which had been a hallmark of the Games. At the Winter Games that year in Sapporo, Japan, a standout Austrian downhiller named Karl Schranz was excluded from competition for having endorsed a coffee company.
        Mr. Hodler lost that battle with the outgoing president of the I.O.C., Avery Brundage, but in later years persuaded his fellow committee members to revise Olympic prohibitions on professionalism that he deemed unrealistic, arbitrarily enforced and biased toward the rich, who could afford to be amateurs.
        ''This was his proudest accomplishment,'' his son Beat said Wednesday. ''His argument was that an athlete who spent so much of the year training could not take a job, and needed money for expenses.''
      