
        Richard Gilman, the drama and literary critic whose elegant, contentious voice resonated through four decades in American letters, earning him both admirers and enemies of partisan fierceness, died Saturday at his home in Kusatsu, Japan. He was 83.
        His death, after many years of illness, was announced by his daughter Priscilla Gilman, who said he was originally found to have terminal lung cancer in 1997.
        Mr. Gilman, a professor at the Yale School of Drama and the author of five books of criticism and a memoir, resisted pigeonholes, both in describing himself and the playwrights he wrote about.
        In an article in The New York Times in 1970 -- an account of his experiences directing a play at Yale -- he wrote: ''I don't think of myself as a critic or teacher either, but simply -- and at the obvious risk of disingenuousness -- as someone who teaches, writes drama criticism (and other things) and feels that the American compulsion to take your identity from your profession, with its corollary of only one trade to a practitioner, may be a convenience to society but is burdensome and constricting to yourself.''
        That elaborate sentence, with its self-conscious detours and its jump from the personal to the didactic, is vintage Gilman. The novelist D. M. Thomas described him as ''one of the least self-effacing critics one could imagine.'' Mr. Gilman was indeed, as he suggested, something of a hybrid, and not only in his profession. His distinctive style as a writer was poised between academic erudition and popular journalism.
        His greatest fame, however, undoubtedly came from his association with the theater and his combative definitions of what it should and shouldn't be. As a drama critic at Commonweal and later at Newsweek, he typically championed the iconoclastic and the cryptic: the directors Jerzy Grotowski, Joseph Chaikin and Peter Brook; the playwrights Harold Pinter and Peter Handke. And he consistently dismissed the more naturalistic, commercial fare found on Broadway.
        ''People still go to the theater to identify with characters, not having been apprised of their death,'' he once wrote, with sardonic wonder, of mainstream theater audiences. Plays, he said in ''The Making of Modern Drama'' (1974), his most ambitious and arguably his finest work, should be ''enactments of consciousness'' that free the mind from traditional perceptions. What he opposed, he said, was ''the turning of dramatic art into culture -- something to use as a storehouse of 'higher' feelings and recognitions.''
        Mr. Gilman was one of a breed of philosopher-critics, including Robert Brustein and Eric Bentley, who came to prominence in the 1950s and '60s. They located in modern drama the elements of abstraction, alienation and absurdity that had long been at the core of discussions of other forms of art and literature. For many of these writers, the essential history of the theater since the late 19th century was, as Mr. Gilman wrote, ''a record of attempts to work free from the morass of illusions.''
        But few of Mr. Gilman's peers were as extreme as he in insisting that the genre transcend the representational. Rather than imitate reality, he said, theater should offer alternatives to it. Art, Mr. Gilman argued, should put its audience ''in the presence of a life our own lives are powerless to unearth.''
        This search for the ineffable was more than a professional pursuit. In his most personal work, ''Faith, Sex, Mystery: A Memoir'' (1987), the Jewish-born Mr. Gilman wrote eloquently of his conversion as a 27-year-old from atheism to Roman Catholicism. He left the church after eight years, though he refused to reduce this episode in his life to psychological solutions.
        ''The point about the spiritual that I both start with and want to inquire further into is that it isn't coterminous with the psychological, it isn't simply an archaic term for it,'' he wrote. ''Something mysterious spills over.''
        Mystery, he believed, was also what most defined greatness in art, and that insight inevitably led him to write as much about what a work wasn't as about what it was. He said, for example, that Georg Büchner, the 19th-century German playwright and author of ''Woyzeck,'' ''gave form and expression to what had not been allowed to happen, what still remained to be said.''
        Chekhov, he wrote, ''stripped art of all purposes of consolation and exhortation.''
        Richard Martin Gilman was born on April 30, 1923, and grew up in Brooklyn, the son of Jacob Gilman, a lawyer, and Marion Wolinsky Gilman. After graduating from James Madison High School in Brooklyn in 1941, he enrolled at the University of Wisconsin. From 1943 to 1946 he served in the Marine Corps in the South Pacific, rising to the rank of staff sergeant, then returned to Wisconsin to complete his studies and graduate in 1947.
        In the 1950s, living in Greenwich Village, he wrote literary criticism and reviews as a freelance writer before joining Commonweal as a drama critic, a profession he said he had never aspired to. ''I had no background in theater, nothing but an amateur perspective,'' he recalled later.
        Yet it was precisely this outsider's perspective that made Mr. Gilman stand out both at Commonweal and then at Newsweek, where he was the drama critic from 1964 to 1967. His approach was more often literary, or even philosophical, than strictly performance-oriented. As the critic Walter Clemons wrote, ''the surface of a theatrical event occupies his attention less than the core of its meaning.'' (Mr. Gilman, accordingly, had little use for critics like Walter Kerr and Kenneth Tynan, who were celebrated for their immediate and sensory descriptions of actors and acting; he preferred the cerebral self-consciousness of Susan Sontag.)
        This perspective drew heated responses from some of Mr. Gilman's intellectual peers. Describing his experience as a drama critic, Mr. Gilman wrote, ''The only effect I could discern, apart from the few minds I might have taught to see drama a bit differently, was that I had gained a reputation for being sour, hypercritical, an outsider ranting against the party to which he hasn't been invited.''
        Indeed, his first book, ''The Confusion of Realms'' (1970), a collection of essays on subjects from Eldridge Cleaver to the Living Theater, was attacked by Gore Vidal in Commentary and Philip Rahv in The New York Review of Books. ''Mr. Gilman has through the years shown an almost immodest taste for conversions,'' Mr. Rahv wrote, ''and at present he is evidently straining at the leash to launch himself into the role of a leading exponent of the New -- of the New at all costs, at that -- and as a Now exponent of the arts.''
        Others found a cause for rejoicing in that same point of view. In a review of ''Realms'' in The New York Times, John Leonard, who described Mr. Gilman's writing as ''confrontation criticism,'' wrote that ''to grapple with his perspective is to grapple with one's own flaccid preconceptions; to be roused from torpor for a cultural wrestling match.''
        Mr. Gilman was a professor at the Yale University School of Drama from 1967 until his retirement in 1998. Among his students were the budding playwrights Christopher Durang, Wendy Wasserstein and Albert Innaurato. He was also a lecturer or visiting professor at Columbia and Stanford and at Barnard College.
        Mr. Gilman was the president of the PEN American Center, the largest of the 82 centers of the international association of writers, from 1981 to 1983, and he was the 1971 recipient of the George Jean Nathan Award for drama criticism. He was also the author of ''Common and Uncommon Masks'' (1971) and ''Decadence: The Strange Life of an Epithet'' (1979).
        Two previous marriages -- to Esther Morgenstern, a painter and dancer, in 1949, and to Lynn Nesbit, the literary agent, in 1966 -- ended in divorce. In 1992, he married Yasuko Shiojiri, who had translated his books into Japanese. She survives him. In addition to his daughter Priscilla, of Manhattan, he is also survived by another daughter, Claire Gilman, also of Manhattan; a son, Nicholas, of Mexico City; a sister, Edith Axelrod, of New Jersey, and four grandchildren.
        A collection of Mr. Gilman's essays, ''The Drama Is Coming Now: The Theater Criticism of Richard Gilman, 1961-1991,'' was published by Yale University Press in 2005. But his last original book, ''Chekhov's Plays,'' a work-by-work analysis of the Russian dramatist, appeared in 1996.
        Reviewing it for The New York Review of Books, Aileen Kelly said that Mr. Gilman's ''exposition of the relation between Chekhov's ideas and his dramatic techniques should be required reading for the producers and critics who persist in interpreting the plays as studies in failure and despair.''
        Its subtitle reflects what Mr. Gilman sought throughout his career: ''An Opening Into Eternity.''
      