
        Gary C. Comer, who as founder of the mail-order apparel company Lands' End printed a glossy catalog in the 1960's that became a prototype of the magazinelike catalogs of today, died Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, a company spokeswoman, Michele Casper, said.
        Starting with $30,000 in 1963, Mr. Comer, an avid sailboat racer, built a multimillion-dollar business out of a sailing equipment company he had opened in a basement apartment on Chicago's North Side. Three years later, the company distributed the first of its slick catalogs, with detailed descriptions of its products, adding raincoats, cotton shirts and wool sweaters to its sailing merchandise. The additions were all manufactured by other companies, but all formed part of the sporty image of Lands' End.
        Because of a printer's error, the apostrophe in Lands' End turned up in the wrong spot, but Mr. Comer decided to keep it there.
        By the 1980's, at several hundred pages, the catalog displayed everything from brightly colored rugby shirts to Shetland crew sweaters to tartan-plaid boxer shorts, as well as canvas luggage. Mr. Comer stepped down as the company's president in 1990, but remained its chairman and majority stockholder until the company was sold to Sears, Roebuck & Company in 2002.
        Gary Campbell Comer was born in Chicago on Dec. 10, 1927. He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Frances; a son, Guy; a daughter, Stephanie; and three grandchildren, all of Chicago.
        Mr. Comer, who did not go to college, started his business when he was 33, after 10 years as an advertising copywriter for Young & Rubicam in Chicago.
        The catalog he created became known in the industry as a ''magalog'' -- thick with articles as well as photos and captions. In 1988, for example, the company hired a Chicago Tribune reporter to write an account of his train journey home for the Christmas holidays. Other issues featured articles and photographs on wool farming in Australia and madras manufacturing in India.
        The company was also among the first in the catalog industry to offer a toll-free number for its customers to use.
        Lands' End is among dozens of mail-order companies that profited from the proliferation of credit cards, lower costs for toll-free phone lines and, in recent years, online shopping. In 1978, the company moved its warehouse and extensive phone operations from Chicago to Dodgeville, Wis.
      