
        Peter H. Rossi, a prominent sociologist best known for documenting the changing face of American homelessness in the 1980's, died on Saturday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 84.
        Professor Rossi died of natural causes, his family said.
        At his death, Professor Rossi was Stuart A. Rice professor emeritus of sociology at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, where he had taught for many years.
        He was also director emeritus of the Social and Demographic Research Institute at the university.
        Professor Rossi's most famous book was ''Down and Out in America: The Origins of Homelessness'' (University of Chicago, 1989). In it, he chronicled the shift in the nation's homeless population from the older white male denizens of post-World War II skid rows to a younger, larger group that included many more women, children and minorities.
        For the book, Professor Rossi and a team of researchers took to the streets of Chicago in 1985 and 1986 in one of the first systematic efforts to count the homeless. Their work suggested that the national homeless population was far lower than thought --300,000 to 500,000 people instead of the two million to three million often cited. The findings drew criticism from many advocates for the homeless.
        His other research also centered on the effectiveness of social programs in several areas, among them poverty, hunger and prison reform. Although he personally favored social policies that helped the disenfranchised, his work sought to determine objectively whether such programs actually worked.
        As a result, it seemed to appeal equally to conservatives (who invoked it to highlight the failure of particular programs) and to liberals (who invoked it to argue for strengthening the same programs).
        Professor Rossi's other books include ''The Education of Catholic Americans'' (Aldine Publishing, 1966), with Andrew M. Greeley; ''Armed and Considered Dangerous: A Survey of Felons and Their Firearms'' (Aldine de Gruyter, 1986), with James D. Wright; and ''Of Human Bonding: Parent-Child Relations Across the Life Course'' (Aldine de Gruyter, 1990), written with his wife, Alice S. Rossi, a sociologist who was a founder of the National Organization for Women.
        Peter Henry Rossi was born on Dec. 27, 1921, in Queens. He earned a bachelor's in sociology from the City College of New York in 1943 and, after Army service in World War II, a doctorate in sociology from Columbia in 1951.
        After teaching at Harvard, Professor Rossi joined the faculty at the University of Chicago, where he also directed the National Opinion Research Center. He later taught at Johns Hopkins and joined the University of Massachusetts in 1974. He retired in 1992.
        Professor Rossi's first marriage ended in divorce. He married Alice Schaerr in 1951. Besides his wife, the Harriet Martineau professor emerita of sociology at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, surviving are their three children, Kristin, of Keene, N.H.; Nina Bander of Turners Falls, Mass.; and Peter, an economist at the University of Chicago; and six grandchildren.
      