
        Former President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, a powerful bureaucrat who led Pakistan from 1988 to 1993 and dismissed two governments on charges of corruption, died Friday in the northwestern city of Peshawar. He was 91.
        The cause was pneumonia after a long illness, said his son-in-law, Irfan Ullah Marwat.
        Mr. Khan became the president of Pakistan after the country's last military dictator, Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, died along with the United States ambassador, Arnold L. Raphael, in a mysterious plane crash in 1988.
        A seasoned bureaucrat, Mr. Khan rose through the ranks, held important official positions and was always at the center stage of power politics during his career.
        He was known as a strict and honest financial manager, a nationalist and a vehement supporter of the country's nuclear program. However, his twilight days as the president were marred by controversy and political turmoil.
        Born in 1915 in the Bannu district of North-West Frontier Province, Mr. Khan joined the Indian civil service before Pakistan and India were carved out of the British Empire in 1947.
        Mr. Khan was in the civil service in his home province and rose to several important national government posts, including governor of the State Bank of Pakistan and finance minister.
        Mr. Khan was considered a close aide of General Zia. In February 1985, Mr. Khan was elected chairman of the Senate. As per constitutional arrangement, Mr. Khan assumed the role of president after General Zia's plane crash in August 1988 and was formally elected president that December.
        As president, Mr. Khan twice used a constitutional amendment that gave the president sweeping discretionary powers to dismiss a government and override the government's choice of army chief.
        He held the general elections in 1988 in which Benazir Bhutto became prime minister of Pakistan, the first woman to do so. In 1990, Mr. Khan dismissed Ms. Bhutto's government, which was tainted by charges of corruption, mismanagement and nepotism.
        In 1993, he also dismissed the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on the same charges of corruption and mismanagement. He then started a collaboration with Ms. Bhutto, whom he had earlier thrown out of the government. After the Supreme Court ordered that Mr. Sharif be restored, a political crisis gripped the country.
        Amid growing tension, Pakistan's powerful army chief asked both men to resign in 1993.
        After that, Mr. Khan generally led a quiet life away from politics, shied from the media limelight and declined interviews.
        However, in the early 1990s, he founded the Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences, a leading engineering university.
      