
        Winifred Bennett, an amateur historian whose casual suggestion at the dinner table 10 years ago that DNA testing might establish whether Thomas Jefferson fathered children by his slave Sally Hemings helped rewrite history, unsettle families and raise enduring questions about sex, race and the American past, died on Oct. 7 at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 71.
        The cause was kidney failure, said her daughter, Phoebe Bennett.
        As a result of Mrs. Bennett's idea, an international team of scientists embarked on a genetic study of Jefferson and Hemings descendants. Their findings, published in the journal Nature in 1998, indicated that a male of the Jefferson family, most likely Thomas, fathered at least one of Hemings's children.
        The discovery of a genetic link between the families resolved -- and also renewed -- two centuries of speculation.
        ''Prior to the DNA evidence, it was impossible to know with any degree of assurance whether Jefferson and Hemings had a relationship, and it was equally impossible to prove that they didn't,'' the historian Joseph J. Ellis, a Jefferson biographer, said in a telephone interview on Thursday.
        The study made headlines worldwide. It also raised deep questions about the definition of family, the nature of racial identity and, especially, Jefferson's position on slavery. By the late 1700's, Jefferson had begun to back away from abolitionism, saying he feared that emancipation would lead to racial intermixing.
        In 1993, Mrs. Bennett, newly divorced after 30 years of marriage, moved to Charlottesville, Va., where speculation about Jefferson and Sally Hemings had hung in the air for generations. Jefferson, who was born in 1743 and died in 1826, founded the University of Virginia there; his home, Monticello, is nearby.
        Mrs. Bennett was neither historian nor geneticist. But she had an inquisitive nature, and at the time, DNA testing was in the news in Charlottesville.
        Winifred Joyce was born on July 12, 1935, in Columbus, Ohio, and reared in Hamilton, Ohio. She earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Cornell in 1957 and then moved to New York City. While studying philosophy and art history at New York University, she modeled for the Ford agency.
        In the early 1960's, she moved to Dayton, Ohio, to work as a programmer for the Mead paper company. Divorced after a brief early marriage, she married Hunter M. Bennett Jr. in 1963. They lived in West Virginia, where Mrs. Bennett remained until their divorce in 1993.
        Besides her daughter, Phoebe, of Arlington, Mrs. Bennett is survived by a son, John Jackson Bennett of Manhattan; a brother, William B. Joyce of Basking Ridge, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
        After moving to Charlottesville, Mrs. Bennett studied art history and landscape architecture at the university. She also befriended Eugene A. Foster, a retired pathologist.
        One evening in 1996, over dinner at the Foster house, the talk turned to DNA. For years, a Charlottesville woman, Anna Anderson Manahan, had claimed to be Anastasia, the long-lost daughter of Czar Nicholas II. Manahan died in 1984, and in 1994, DNA testing disproved her claim.
        Mrs. Bennett wondered whether DNA might resolve the Jefferson question. Dr. Foster began to research the subject.
        Sally Hemings is believed to have borne six children. Rumors that Jefferson fathered a child with her surfaced as early as 1802, during his first term as president. The rumors persisted through the 19th century, but by the 20th, most scholars gave them little credence.
        As Dr. Foster would learn, analysis of the Y chromosome, which is passed largely unchanged from father to son, might settle the matter. Over generations, the chromosome can develop distinctive small mutations, which become the genetic hallmarks of a particular family. Two men who share the same pattern of mutations are likely to be related.
        Dr. Foster assembled a team of scientists, and they began to reach into the past. Sifting the genealogical record, they tracked down descendants of two of Hemings's sons.
        Jefferson's only son by his wife, Martha, died in infancy. But the researchers found descendants of his paternal uncle. They also found living relatives of two Jefferson nephews, Samuel and Peter Carr, each of whom had been accused at times of fathering Hemings's children.
        Analysis of the Y chromosomes revealed a pattern of mutations peculiar to the Jefferson family. The pattern was shared by a descendant of Hemings's youngest son, Eston. None of the Carr relations had it.
        ''The simplest and most probable'' explanation, the researchers wrote, was ''that Thomas Jefferson, rather than one of the Carr brothers, was the father of Eston.''
        The article, by Dr. Foster and seven others, appeared in the Nov. 5, 1998, issue of Nature. For Mrs. Bennett, its publication pre-empted her own plans to write a book about the case, her daughter said. It also ended her friendship with Dr. Foster.
        ''I really regretted that things worked out the way they did, but the project developed a life of its own,'' Dr. Foster, a former faculty member at Tufts and the University of Virginia, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. ''Winifred gets all the credit for originally having the idea of using DNA for this purpose.''
        The chain of events Mrs. Bennett set in motion continued to unspool. In 2000, a study by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation concluded that Thomas ''most likely was the father of all six'' of Hemings's children.
        Some of Jefferson's white relatives found the news insupportable. In 2001, the Thomas Jefferson Heritage Society, a group of his descendants and fans, commissioned its own study, which pointed to Jefferson's younger brother, Randolph.
        In 2002, the Monticello Association, whose members are lineal descendants of Jefferson through his daughters, voted to deny full membership to Hemings's descendants.
        But for most historians today, Dr. Ellis said, the case is clear. The historical record, he said, shows that Thomas was the only Jefferson male present nine months before the birth of each Hemings child.
        ''We can't know the character of their relationship historically,'' he said. ''But we can know with some degree of assurance that it is correct to assume that Jefferson was the father of some or all of Sally Hemings's children.''
      