
        Todd Bolender, an internationally known dancer and choreographer who left a distinctive imprint on the New York City Ballet and its forerunner companies before leading the Kansas City Ballet and troupes abroad, died on Thursday in Kansas City, Kan. He was 92 and lived in Kansas City, Mo.
        James Jordan, balletmaster of the Kansas City Ballet, said Mr. Bolender had suffered a stroke on Tuesday and died at the University of Kansas Medical Center. He was artistic director of the company, in Missouri, from 1981 to 1996.
        Born in Canton, Ohio, on Feb. 27, 1914, Mr. Bolender settled in New York City in 1936. Lincoln Kirstein and George Balanchine, founders of the New York City Ballet, recruited him for the American Ballet, the first company they had formed in 1935. When Kirstein used the Balanchine dancers in his own troupe, Ballet Caravan, Mr. Bolender stood out in roles like Alias, the anti-hero's nemesis in the 1938 ''Billy the Kid,'' an Americana classic by Kirstein and Eugene Loring.
        Featured as a novice choreographer with Ballet Society, the immediate precursor to City Ballet, from 1946 through 1948, Mr. Bolender became part of ballet history through his memorable performance in ''The Four Temperaments,'' the 1946 experimental ballet Balanchine choreographed to a commissioned Hindemith score. Kirstein summed up the physical image projected by Mr. Bolender's dancing in his book ''Thirty Years: The New York City Ballet'' when he described his performance in the ballet's ''Phlegmatic'' solo: ''Todd Bolender, whose supple body and tubular limbs were remarkably serpentine, made a powerful impression as a fluidly sluggish acrobatic mendicant.''
        Although Mr. Bolender's dancing had a dramatic tinge that was felt in the 36 ballets he choreographed for City Ballet and elsewhere, Balanchine also used him early on in one of his purest plotless neo-Classical ballets, ''Symphonie Concertante.'' Balanchine created the work for his School of American Ballet and cast Mr. Bolender as the sole male and sole professional. When the work was transferred to Ballet Society, in 1947, Mr. Bolender continued in the role.
        But mostly, Mr. Bolender was associated with the more avant-garde of Balanchine works. In ''Agon,'' which caused a sensation in 1957, he led the first trio and brought out its epigrammatic wit as few of his successors could. He also created the role of the man always reaching for a woman beyond his reach in Balanchine's ''Ivesiana'' (1954). In 1947, he was the star of ''The Fox,'' Balanchine's version of Stravinsky's pantomime ballet. Mr. Bolender helped reconstruct it for the Kansas City Ballet and presented it at Symphony Space in New York two years ago.
        Jerome Robbins's ballets were also congenial to him. He was a principal in ''Age of Anxiety,'' a study in alienation, but also excelled in comic roles in Robbins's ''Concert'' and ''Fanfare.''
        As a choreographer, Mr. Bolender moved between similar emotional extremes. His masterpiece was ''The Still Point,'' in which Melissa Hayden and Jacques d'Amboise poured out powerful performances as a young girl rejected by others and the youth who comes to love her. At the other end of the scale, Mr. Bolender's 1955 ''Souvenirs,'' a comic sketch about silent-movie vamps, showed a sure touch and was a City Ballet staple for years. A darker ballet was Mr. Bolender's version of ''The Miraculous Mandarin'' (1951); in 1960, his version of Darius Milhaud's ''Creation of the World'' equated the fall of man with the 1929 stock market crash.
        Mr. Bolender, who briefly danced with the Philadelphia-based Littlefield Ballet, American Ballet Theater and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in the 1940's, was in charge of City Ballet rehearsals when Balanchine was absent from the company in 1956, when his wife, Tanaquil LeClercq, contracted polio.
        Although he returned to choreograph two works for City Ballet's Stravinsky Festival in 1972, Mr. Bolender had begun working abroad in ballet companies. In Germany, he was ballet director at the Cologne Opera House (1963-66) and the Frankfurt Ballet (1966-69), and he was later ballet director at the Ataturk Opera House in Turkey.
        Recommended by Kirstein, Mr. Bolender took over the faltering Kansas City Ballet and gave it a new repertory.
        After his retirement, he was named artistic director emeritus and continued to supervise his works. ''He fully shared his knowledge and wisdom,'' said William Whitener, the current director, who succeeded him. The company's new home, scheduled to open in 2008, has already been named the Todd Bolender Center for Dance and Creativity.
        Mr. Bolender is survived by his brother, Charles, of Canton, and nieces and nephews.
      