
        Edgar E. Summerlin, a tenor saxophonist and composer who wrote some of the first jazz music for church services, died on Oct. 10 in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Staatsburg, N.Y.
        The cause was pneumonia associated with cancer treatments, said his wife, Karen.
        Mr. Summerlin, who founded the jazz program at the City College of New York and directed it in the 1970's and 80's, composed ''Requiem for Mary Jo,'' considered one of the earliest examples of liturgical jazz, in 1959. He performed the piece, written for his 9-month-old daughter, who had died of heart disease, in a service at Southern Methodist University.
        That same year, he created a modern jazz setting for a prayer service written 200 years earlier by John Wesley, founder of Methodism. The service, which included a prelude, an anthem, background music and a postlude, was part of a convocation of Methodist youth at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind.
        Mr. Summerlin, who was known as Ed, composed jazz services for numerous denominations, many with contemporary text by Roger Ortmayer, a theology professor at Southern Methodist. The services, performed by jazz combos as well as orchestras, sometimes included expressionistic horn screams. They also actively called for participation by the congregation, requiring worshipers to add the sounds of everyday life by clapping, shuffling their feet or making other noises.
        Mr. Summerlin's purpose was not only to create music that would appeal to modern churchgoers, but also to challenge convention. As he explained in an interview with a Minnesota public radio station in 2005, he wanted to ''get the congregation to change the way they approach the whole worship service.''
        Born in Marianna, Fla., Mr. Summerlin was a graduate of Central Missouri State University and received a master's degree from the Eastman School of Music in Rochester. He taught at North Texas State College, then at City College from 1971 to 1989.
        Active in the avant-garde scene of the 1960's, he performed with leading jazz figures, including Eric Dolphy and Ron Carter.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Jeff Summerlin of West Taghkanic, N.Y., and Sean Wright of De Soto, Kan.; two grandchildren; two brothers, William and Lee, both of Lexington, Mo.; a sister, Johnnie Peek of Urbana, Ill.; and a former wife, Mary Summerlin of Hyde Park, N.Y.
      