
        Norman Lewis, a nationally recognized authority on English grammar and usage who preferred tuh-MAY-toh but in a pinch would countenance tuh-MAH-toh, died on Sept. 8 in Whittier, Calif. He was 93 and made his home in Whittier.
        Mr. Lewis died of natural causes, his daughter Debbie said.
        On the printed page, Mr. Lewis emerges as a Dale Carnegie of diction, equal parts teacher and salesman. ''Do you make embarrassing errors in pronunciation, spelling, grammar, word usage?'' he asks in his book ''30 Days to Better English.'' ''Is your vocabulary fresh and growing, or do you use the same old tired words over and over?'' In ''Word Power Made Easy,'' he assures the reader, ''When you have finished working with this book, you will no longer be the same person.''
        A longtime faculty member at Rio Hondo College in Whittier, Mr. Lewis formerly taught at New York University and the City College of New York.
        In the dozens of books he wrote or edited, Mr. Lewis initiated readers into mysteries like the meaning of ''mulct'' (to bilk, tax or punish by fine); the difference between an anthropologist and a polyandrist; and the wisdom, or lack thereof, of using a preposition to end a sentence with.
        One of his books lists more than 100 ''esoteric phobias,'' among them aichmophobia, cibophobia, chionophobia, climacophobia, gymnophobia, harpaxophobia, maieusiophobia, peniaphobia, pnigerophobia, scelerophobia and taeniophobia.
        Much of Mr. Lewis's work is still in print, including ''Word Power Made Easy'' (Pocket Books, 1979); ''30 Days to Better English'' (Signet, 1985); and ''30 Days to a More Powerful Vocabulary'' (Pocket Books, 1971), written with Wilfred Funk. Mr. Lewis also edited several editions of Roget's Thesaurus, including The New Roget's Thesaurus in Dictionary Form (Berkley, 1976).
        Norman Lewis was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 30, 1912, and earned degrees from City College and Columbia. He joined the Rio Hondo faculty in 1964.
        Besides his daughter Debbie of Los Angeles, Mr. Lewis is survived by his wife, the former Mary Goldstein; another daughter, Margie of Whittier; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Lewis's phobias, from ''Word Power Made Easy,'' are, respectively, fear of pointed objects, food, snow, stairs, nakedness, robbers, childbirth, poverty, smothering, burglars and tapeworms.
      