
        Danial Shapiro, a modern-dance choreographer known for his collaborations with his wife, Joanie Smith, died on Tuesday in Atlantic City. He was 48 and lived in Minneapolis.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his publicist, Laura Colby.
        ''Mr. Shapiro is tall, an affectionate kangaroo of a dancer who can swing his powerful frame into quick shifts of dynamics,'' Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times in 1987 in a review of one of Mr. Shapiro's and Ms. Smith's earliest programs in New York City. The three dances on the program addressed clear themes like conflict, resolution and domestic existence.
        The couple created strong abstract dances built around props like Army blankets, long benches and dowdy, rolling footstools, but with a clear emotional subtext and, frequently, exuberant humor. But they became known for big, sprawling dances that addressed subjects as various as Victorian spiritualism, the Holocaust, the difficult lives of borscht belt comedians in the 1950's, and child-rearing and the family. A vein of dark humor often ran through the intense emotions.
        Mr. Shapiro continued to choreograph during his treatment for cancer, which was diagnosed four years ago. In January he and Ms. Smith presented ''Anytown: Stories of America,'' with music by Bruce Springsteen, Patti Scialfa and Soozie Tyrell, performed by the Shapiro & Smith troupe at the Joyce Theater in Chelsea.
        Their dances were performed by companies including Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and its junior ensemble; Hubbard Street Dance Chicago; the Phoenix Dance Theater of Leeds, England; and the Ilkhom Theater in Uzbekistan. The two choreographers also created an advertising campaign urging men to be tested for prostate cancer.
        Born in Syracuse, Mr. Shapiro grew up in Los Angeles before moving to New York to dance with the Murray Louis Dance Company from 1978 to 1985. He and Ms. Smith married in 1985, and the two trained in Helsinki, Finland, on a Fulbright grant for a year before returning to New York. In 1995 they moved their dance company to Minnesota, where Mr. Shapiro also taught dance at the University of Minnesota.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Shapiro is survived by his mother, Susanne; two sisters, Judy and Jane; and a brother, Paul.
      