
        Kanshi Ram, who as the founder of the Bahujan Samaj Party in India achieved some success in mobilizing the voting power of the nation's Dalits, or untouchables, died on Monday in New Delhi. He was 72.
        The death was confirmed by Eugene Correa, a spokesman for the Consulate General of India in New York. Mr. Ram, who had been ill for more than a year, died of a heart attack, The Press Trust of India reported.
        A heavyset man and a fiery orator in his prime, Mr. Ram was a Dalit -- the people at the bottom of Hinduism's caste hierarchy, who for centuries have been consigned to Indian society's most menial jobs and lowest levels of literacy and land holdings. In Hindi, Dalit means ground down.
        ''Let the upper castes look upon us as a creeping poison,'' Mr. Ram said in 1988 after his third-place finish in a race for a seat in Parliament. ''We will not stop until we unite the victims of the system and overthrow the spirit of inequality in our country.''
        Four years earlier, Mr. Ram had founded the Bahujan Samaj Party -- the Party of the Majority -- in Uttar Pradesh in northern India, where nearly 25 percent of the population were untouchables.
        The creation of the party in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, reverberated throughout the nation. Along with other factors, it signaled a shift away from the supremacy of the Congress Party of the Nehrus and the Gandhis, which had governed almost without interruption since independence in 1947.
        In 1990, Mr. Ram stood before tens of thousands of people in New Delhi and attacked the notion that ''the weaker sections'' of society were being looked after by the higher castes. He rejected the term harijan, or children of God, which Mohandas K. Gandhi had coined for the untouchables.
        ''For too long we have been knocking at the doors of the system, asking for justice and getting nothing,'' Mr. Ram said. ''It's time to break down those doors.''
        By 1994, Mr. Ram was sharing power in Uttar Pradesh with Mulayam Singh Yadav, leader of the Samajwadi Party, in a government led by Mr. Yadav. But differences between them caused the government to fall after 20 months.
        That opened the way for Mr. Ram's follower, Mayawati, to take over as the state's chief minister -- the first Dalit woman to lead a government at any level in India. Ms. Mayawati, who has only one name, held that post for less than a year. In 2001, she again became the state's chief minister, but resigned two years ago after the governing coalition she led broke apart.
        Kanshi Ram was born on March 15, 1934, in a village in the Ropar district of Punjab. Despite his Dalit roots, he earned a bachelor's degree in science from the Government College at Ropar. Soon after, he was hired by a government agency called the Survey of India through a quota system for Dalits that he later railed against. In 1965, then working in the nation's Defense Ministry, he quit his job after becoming involved in another employee's discrimination case.
        Mr. Ram then began working for Dalit equality by organizing self-help projects among educated people of the lower castes who held government jobs. He supported affirmative action programs in jobs and education for poor people. But he bitterly opposed ''political reservations'' -- the setting aside of parliamentary or state-level government seats according to caste.
        The political reservation system, he said, created ''token seats'' for ''stooges'' of the majority parties, all of them controlled by Brahmins or other high-caste people.
        ''Where Brahminism is a success, no other 'ism' can succeed,'' he said. ''We need fundamental, structural, social changes.''
      