
        Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the Salvation Army missionary who falls in love with a handsome gambler in the raucous Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' died Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 80, and lived in Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, Calif.
        The cause was pulmonary disease, her son Lawrence Barnett Jr. said.
        With a powerful, wide-ranging voice, the raven-haired Miss Bigley belted out ''If I Were a Bell,'' when her character realized that she had fallen for Sky Masterson, one of the sinners she had come to save from the gaudy environs of gamblers, showgirls and cops on Broadway.
        ''If I were a bell I would be ringing,'' Miss Bigley sang. ''If I were a lamp I'd light.''
        The song was originally written for another character, but that performer had difficulty handling it. The composer, Frank Loesser, reworked it for the Sarah Brown character, and it became the signature song of Miss Bigley's career.
        The show, based on a story by Damon Runyon, had a long and triumphant run, produced many hits that have become standard songs, and is frequently revived. Miss Bigley stayed with the original production for three years.
        Miss Bigley, who also played leading roles in ''Oklahoma!'' and ''Me and Juliet,'' was a frequent performer on television in its early days, appearing on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and ''The Colgate Comedy Hour.'' On June 25, 1951, she -- along with other entertainers like Arthur Godfrey, Garry Moore and Faye Emerson -- appeared on an hourlong CBS program that was the start of nationally broadcast color television.
        In 1958, Miss Bigley retired to raise her family.
        Isabel Bigley Barnett was born in the Bronx on Feb. 23, 1926, the only child of Joseph and Isabel Press Bigley. Besides her son Lawrence, of Los Angeles, Miss Bigley is survived by her husband of 53 years, Lawrence R. Barnett, whom she met when he was president of the Music Corporation of America, a major talent agency; three other sons, Robert, of Denver, William, of Los Angeles and James, of Atherton, Calif.; two daughters, Claudia Scott of Concord, N.H., and Laurey Treiger of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
        ''Ever since I was 12 years old I've been studying for a career in theater,'' Miss Bigley wrote in a first-person article for The World Telegram in 1952, shortly before the end of her run in ''Guys and Dolls.'' She took voice lessons at Walton High School in the Bronx and then during the summer at Juilliard. She also learned stenography and began working at a Wall Street law firm.
        One day, Miss Bigley asked for an extended lunch hour and took a 20-minute subway ride to an audition for the chorus in ''Oklahoma!'' To her surprise, she was signed as the understudy for the lead role of the farm girl Laurey.
        ''I left a pile of unanswered letters on the desk,'' she wrote.
        Soon after, the producers sent Miss Bigley to London to take over as Laurey in the Drury Lane production of ''Oklahoma.'' She played that role there for three years, then came back to the United States for screen tests in Hollywood, which did not go too well.
        After returning to New York, she auditioned for ''Guys and Dolls'' and was cast as Sarah Brown, her first leading role on Broadway. The production ''has the most flamboyant population of any show in town,'' The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson wrote, and Miss Bigley ''plays a few enticing tricks on one of Mr. Loesser's most rollicking songs.''
        In 1953, Miss Bigley played Jeanie in Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Me and Juliet'' -- a Valentine to show business that chronicle's the backstage life of a successful Broadway musical.
        ''It would be hard to collect a more attractive cast,'' Mr. Atkinson wrote of that show, ''than one that includes Isabel Bigley, a belle that is still ringing beautifully.''
        Correction:  October 6, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the missionary who falls in love with a gambler in the Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' misstated the name of the organization she represented. It was the fictional Save-a-Soul Mission, not the Salvation Army.
      