
        Eve Adamson, who founded the Jean Cocteau Repertory and built it into a respected classical theater company, died on Sunday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 68.
        The cause has not been determined, said her brother and only survivor, Lloyd Crisfield.
        In 1971, disappointed with the projects she was finding as an actress, Ms. Adamson gathered a group of actors and started an ensemble in a converted storefront in the East Village.
        An enthusiast of the absurdist tradition, Ms. Adamson named it the Jean Cocteau, after the French avant-garde polymath. The company began its first season of rotating repertory in 1973, performing four plays, including Eugene Ionesco's ''Lesson,'' and Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot.'' Mel Gussow, writing that year in The New York Times, described the Cocteau as ''an enterprising company whose limited financial and technical resources are offset by artistic resourcefulness.''
        After receiving a grant from New York State, the company moved into the 140-seat Bouwerie Lane Theater in 1974 and became a staple of the burgeoning Off Off Broadway theater scene. Ms. Adamson was artistic director for 18 years, and her company presented a demanding repertory: works by Pinter and Pirandello alongside Restoration comedies, Chekhov dramas and Shakespeare standards.
        Under her direction, the Cocteau presented Tennessee Williams's ''Something Cloudy, Something Clear'' in 1981; it was the last play by Williams to have its premiere in New York during his lifetime.
        After stepping down as artistic director in 1989, Ms. Adamson traveled widely, directing plays nationally and in Europe. She continued to stage plays at the Cocteau from time to time, and when a group of Cocteau veterans broke off in 2004 and formed their own company, the Phoenix Theater Ensemble, Ms. Adamson directed their first production. She died a week before starting rehearsals for a Phoenix production of Jean Anouilh's ''Antigone.''
        Ms. Adamson was born on Oct. 30, 1937, in Beverly Hills, Calif. Her father was Harold Adamson, a lyricist who helped write songs for movies like ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes'' and ''An Affair to Remember.'' In her 20's, she acted and directed in children's theater in Los Angeles; she moved to New York in the 1960's because she wanted to work on original plays. But the quality of the plays she was presented with sent her back to the classics.
        ''Choosing what plays to do was always very personal for me,'' she said in a 1990 interview in The Times. ''I looked for things that would challenge me, the cast and the audience alike -- plays that were timeless. I hate the museum approach. I hate to do anything that couldn't have been written today.''
      