
        William Whelan III, a director of the National Park Service in the Carter administration who oversaw the doubling of the park system's size with the creation of 10 parks in Alaska, died on Sept. 28 in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 66 and lived in Roseville, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Mr. Whalen's wife, Mary.
        In 1979, Mr. Whalen carried out provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act that called for the government to compensate Native Alaskans for land to create the 10 parks. The parks increased the service's holdings to about 88 million acres. In his nearly three years as director, Mr. Whalen also supervised the creation of 34 other parks and recreation areas, including some in urban areas.
        William Jerome Whalen III was born on July 18, 1940, in Burgettstown, Pa., a son of Elizabeth O'Leary Whalen and William J. Whalen II.
        Mr. Whalen graduated from Clarion State Teachers College in Pennsylvania in 1960 and earned a master's degree in psychology from Indiana State University in 1964. While in graduate school, he worked as a guidance counselor for teenagers in the federal Job Corps program in Catoctin Mountain Park near Washington, D.C. There, he became acquainted with park personnel and began a 16-year career with the park service.
        In 1971, Mr. Whalen was appointed superintendent of the newly opened Golden Gate National Recreation Area in San Francisco. In that post, he opened Alcatraz Island -- infamous as ''The Rock'' for its federal prison -- to the public. Six years later, he was appointed director of the parks system. Besides his work opening parks in Alaska and in cities, Mr. Whalen bolstered a program to buy privately held properties surrounded by older national parks to prevent them from being developed.
        But in 1980, Interior Secretary Cecil D. Andrus dismissed Mr. Whalen, who had irritated some longtime employees of the park system by bringing in and promoting younger people. Several environmentalists, however, said the dismissal stemmed at least in part from political pressures because of Mr. Whalen's efforts to overhaul and restrain the activities of concessionaires in the parks.
        After his dismissal as director, Mr. Whalen returned to his position as superintendent of the Golden Gate recreation area. He later opened a consulting business promoting the development of wind power.
        Besides his wife of 47 years, Mr. Whalen is survived by four sons, William IV, of Manteca, Calif.; Dennis, of Mill Valley, Calif.; Timothy, of Concord, Calif.; and Michael, of San Francisco; and five grandchildren.
      