
        Jozsef Gregor, a bass-baritone who parlayed stardom in his native Hungary into a second-act opera career in the United States, died on Friday in Budapest. He was 66.
        His death, after a long illness, was announced to the Hungarian news agency MTI by the opera house in Szeged, Hungary.
        A large man with a large voice and expressive, compelling acting ability, Mr. Gregor had been a mainstay of the Hungarian opera scene since the 1970s in all the major roles for his voice type: Sarastro, Falstaff, Mephistopheles. When the state record label Hungaroton made a concentrated bid for an American market share in the 1980s with affordable recordings of less-known operas, Mr. Gregor was one of several previously unknown singers who became familiar in the West through recordings from ''Don Pasquale'' to Rossini's ''Mosè'' to various early-music works.
        Jozsef Gregor was born on Aug. 8, 1940, in Rakosliget, now a part of Budapest. He was initially drawn to the violin, but studied voice at the Liszt Academy in Budapest (though he never graduated). He made his professional debut in 1958, in the Hungarian Army chorus. He soon became a leading soloist with the opera houses in Budapest, Gyor and Szeged, where he eventually became opera director in 1990. He resigned, however, over his reluctance to allow political considerations to influence his artistic decisions, which only added to his long-term popularity in that city.
        The late 1980s saw an increase in his international performance activity, first in France, Belgium and Canada, then, in 1989, with the Portland Opera in Oregon, where he continued appearing more or less regularly until 2002.
        A dispute with the opera in Budapest was said to have left him with more time to sing abroad. He appeared frequently with the Houston Grand Opera, where he sang Don Basilio in Cecilia Bartoli's American stage debut, and, during the 1994-95 season, at the Met, where he made his debut along with Bryn Terfel in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' and sang two other roles.
        His strong singing and acting won him respect in the United States, but he never attained the degree of fame he reached in Hungary, where his awards included the Kossuth Prize, Hungary's highest honor for an artist.
        Mr. Gregor was in rehearsals for new productions of ''Don Pasquale'' in Budapest and ''Fiddler on the Roof'' in Szeged in September when he unexpectedly announced his retirement, saying he was ''very tired.''
        He is survived by his wife and two daughters.
      