
        Robert Richenburg, an Abstract Expressionist painter whose early works were shown alongside those of Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, died on Tuesday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 89.
        His death was announced by David Findlay Jr. Fine Art of Manhattan, a gallery that represents his work.
        After serving in World War II as an explosives driver, Mr. Richenburg studied in New York with Hans Hofmann and took part in the downtown painting scene. He was a member of the Club, the influential group of abstract painters that included Barnett Newman, Joan Mitchell and Robert Motherwell. In 1951 he was invited to be part of the Ninth Street Show, the exhibition that helped to establish the New York School, organized by the Club and supervised by the dealer Leo Castelli.
        Mr. Richenburg was praised by critics and sought after by collectors, and was particularly known for ominous paintings in which fields of black were punctuated by bursts of color and line. ''This painting must symbolize the most terrifying aspects of metropolitan life,'' a critic wrote about one work in a 1959 solo show at the Tibor de Nagy Gallery.
        Mr. Richenburg supported himself teaching at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. But he resigned in 1964 after a dispute with the school's administration, which disagreed with his support for a student who was making assemblages of found objects like tinfoil and rags. Mr. Richenburg took a job at Cornell University and moved upstate with his wife and son to Ithaca, where he found it difficult to tend to his New York art career.
        His wife later died. He is survived by his second wife, Margaret Kerr; his son, Ron; and his stepchildren, Blake Kerr, Gary Kerr and Meg Kerr.
        Mr. Richenburg never stopped painting. When he was in his 70's, his work began to be noticed again after being championed by Bonnie Grad, an art professor at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., who saw some of his paintings in the 1980's and helped organized new exhibitions.
        A 60-year retrospective of Mr. Richenburg's works is currently on view at the Sidney Mishkin Gallery at Baruch College in Manhattan.
      