
        Dr. Lawrence C. Kolb, a prominent mental health administrator and researcher who helped create the community mental health movement and became the public face of psychiatry for a generation of New Yorkers, died on Oct. 20 in Orlando, Fla. He was 95.
        Dr. Kolb, who had been living with one of his daughters, died in his sleep of natural causes, the family said.
        Dr. Kolb's long public career began, and ended, with two influential studies of psychological suffering. While a young doctor in the 1940s, he spent hours talking with patients who described feelings of excruciating pain in limbs that had been amputated. The result was a definitive account of what is now widely recognized as phantom limb pain.
        And in the early 1980s, nearing retirement, he led studies that demonstrated how combat stress could cause clear physical symptoms -- a finding that helped prompt the government to undertake large studies of post-traumatic symptoms among Vietnam veterans.
        Dr. Kolb became a public figure in the 1960s and 1970s as chairman of the psychiatry department of Columbia University Medical Center and director of the New York State Psychiatric Institute. He not only helped expand the psychiatric practice, and made it an integral part of the medical school, but also worked with politicians and patient advocates to establish mental health clinics in Harlem and other neighborhoods. Mental health officials around the country modeled their efforts on Dr. Kolb's.
        ''This marked a very important shift, taking psychiatric care out of state hospitals to places where people could be treated closer to their homes, in their communities,'' said Dr. Melvin Sabshin, former medical director of the American Psychiatric Association, which Dr. Kolb headed in 1968. He was a pillar of psychiatric education as the co-author of ''Modern Clinical Psychiatry.''
        Lawrence C. Kolb was born in Baltimore on June 16, 1911, the eldest of three children of Lillian and Lawrence Kolb, also a psychiatrist. He attended Trinity College in Dublin before completing medical studies at Johns Hopkins University in 1934. He trained in neurology and psychiatry at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, N.Y., and in England, before a stint as a Navy doctor.
        He worked at the National Institute of Mental Health before going to the Mayo Clinic, in Rochester, Minn.
        He took over the posts at Columbia in 1954, and was a fixture in the city's conversation about mental health and policy for 21 years. He advocated for psychiatric care for drug abusers, criminals with mental illness and those who could not afford it. In 1975, after a storm of criticism over abuses in the state's mental health system, he became commissioner of the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene under Gov. Hugh L. Carey, and implemented reforms.
        After retiring from the department, he began his studies, at 71, of post-traumatic stress in Vietnam veterans.
        ''That would be the end of most people's career, but for him it was just the start of a whole new chapter,'' said Edward B. Blanchard, who worked with him on the studies at a Veterans Administration hospital in Albany.
        Dr. Kolb's wife of 50 years, Madeleine, died in 1987. He is survived by his daughters, Pamela Leadbitter-Shaver, of Orlando; Mary K. Estes, of Friendswood, Tex.; a son, Richards J. Kolb, of Centerville, Va.; a companion, Catherine Lambert, of Sea Island, Ga.; and six grandchildren.
        In one of the last papers of his life, a plea to reform drug laws, Dr. Kolb concluded, ''There is only one way to deal with an individual who is sick, with dignity, compassion, care, confidentiality and without discrimination.''
      