
        David G. Salten, an innovative and influential educator who devised a desegregation plan for the New Rochelle, N.Y., school system and, as an expert witness in 1958, urged the immediate opening of the newly integrated schools in Little Rock, Ark., died on Oct. 1 at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 93.
        The cause was a disease of the heart muscle, said his wife, Adrienne O'Brien.
        Dr. Salten began as a teacher in New York City, rose to acting principal and then was superintendent at two suburban school systems, Long Beach, N.Y., and New Rochelle. His wide-ranging career included service on state, federal and global commissions and study groups on education; a top economic development post in Nassau County; and a leadership role in Jewish philanthropies.
        Until his death, he was a consultant to the president of Hofstra University, and he had been an executive vice president and provost of New York Institute of Technology for more than 20 years.
        Over the years, Dr. Salten consistently pushed for more effective forms of school financing, better compensation for teachers and improved vocational training.
        David George Salten was born on Aug. 23, 1913, in Manhattan. He went to city schools and earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry from New York University and a master's in psychology from Columbia.
        His first job in education was as a science teacher at Metropolitan Vocational High School, where he rose to chairman of the science department and then acting principal. He earned a doctorate from N.Y.U. while working at the school.
        As acting principal, Dr. Salten obtained the Liberty ship John W. Brown, a World War II cargo vessel, which the school used from 1946 to 1982 to train students for maritime careers. He also acquired an old public school on West 46th Street as an annex to his high school. It soon became the first home of the School of Performing Arts.
        In 1950, he became one of the youngest school superintendents in the state when he was appointed to head the Long Beach schools.
        Dr. Salten ran afoul of local politicians, particularly because of his opposition to building a new school on a site that was sometimes under water. After the school board voted 3 to 2 to fire him in December 1961, New Rochelle hired him as superintendent in 1962.
        At the time, the federal government was ordering that the city's schools be desegregated. Dr. Salten devised a tougher plan, which involved shutting an elementary school and busing students, and the Justice Department approved it.
        As a result of Dr. Salten's frequent consulting on educational issues, he was asked to testify in desegregation cases.
        In 1958, he appeared as an expert witness in federal court for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Little Rock, to argue against the local school board's request to delay court-ordered integration for two and a half years.
        ''When certain types of surgery have to be done, it should be done quickly,'' he said, according to The Associated Press.
        Judge Harry J. Lemley of United States District Court granted the delay, but his judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis, and then by the Supreme Court.
        Dr. Salten resigned from his New Rochelle job in 1965 to become executive director of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, a position he held for four years.
        Dr. Salten's marriage to the former Frances Claire Brown ended in divorce in 1983. In addition to Ms. O'Brien, his wife, he is survived by three daughters from his first marriage, Phoebe Salten of Providence, R.I., Cynthia Salten of Boston, and Melissa Salten Rothman of Manhattan; 8 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      