
        Rosamond Carr, a Manhattan fashion illustrator whose love affair with Africa long survived her divorce from the dashing big-game hunter she followed there and culminated when she, as an octogenarian, opened an orphanage in war-ravaged Rwanda, died on Sept. 29. She was 94.
        She died of pneumonia at her home near Gisenyi in the mountains of northwest Rwanda, said Ann Howard Halsey, her niece.
        Mrs. Carr owned a flower plantation in a volcanic paradise, was stalked by leopards, pestered by elephants and cuddled by monkeys and became a close friend of Dian Fossey, the mountain gorilla researcher, who was mysteriously killed in 1985.
        Mrs. Carr became a successful businesswoman at a time when they were rare in Africa. She endured political turmoil most Westerners fled. But her world was upended when Rwanda's Hutu massacred another of the country's ethnic groups, the Tutsi, and killings were committed on her property, eight of them in her flower garden.
        When the spear-wielding mob demanded to know the whereabouts of yet another potential victim, Mrs. Carr exploded.
        ''You don't mind killing old women,'' she said, as recorded in her 1999 autobiography, ''Land of a Thousand Hills: My Life in Rwanda.'' ''If you want to kill someone, here I am. Kill me!''
        Mrs. Carr was forced to flee on five minutes' notice. Once in the United States, as televised images made the magnitude of the tragedy apparent -- perhaps 800,000 dead, two million exiled, two million more in refuge camps in Rwanda -- she made a decision.
        It involved a capacious building she had used to dry flowers. It somehow seemed like the perfect place for an orphanage. With arduous work, it became one.
        ''One of the few regrets in my life is that I never had children of my own,'' she wrote, three years after the arrival of the first orphan, a boy named Gahungu, whose mother had dropped dead in front of him. ''Today at the age of 85, I am blessed with 72,'' she said.
        Mrs. Carr's life does not merely sound cinematic. The actress Julie Harris played her in ''Gorillas in the Mist,'' the movie about Ms. Fossey. A British company is making a documentary about Mrs. Carr, and producers have bought rights to her book, which Ms. Halsey helped write.
        Rosamond Halsey was born in 1912 in South Orange, N.J. Her father was a bond trader ruined by the Depression, and college was not an option. She became an illustrator for department stores.
        She happened to see some films about Africa presented by Kenneth Carr, who had lived there for 28 years, hunting big game and working as a tattoo artist, coffee planter and miner. An Englishman, he was a charming conversationalist and gave her a lion's claw covered with gold. They married, struggled financially and soon had trouble getting along. They decided that moving to Africa might help.
        ''Most people would go to a marriage counselor, but they went to Africa,'' Ms. Halsey said.
        Mrs. Carr, then 37, bought four cotton dresses, a pith helmet ''and a lifetime supply of cold cream'' and the two sailed away on a tramp steamer. They chugged 1,280 miles up the Congo River in a wood-burning paddle-wheel steamer, then drove a second-hand Ford pickup to the Congo-Rwanda border, where they eventually managed a farm.
        It was beautiful and exotic: there was a 50-foot waterfall on their property, wildlife prowled, and Mrs. Carr became fascinated by local culture. She dispensed medicine to the people.
        The marriage foundered, and in the mid-1950's, Mrs. Carr bought a 270-acre flower plantation in the foothills of the Virunga volcanoes. She lived in an ivy-covered stone cottage and planted a formal English garden. She grew fields of lilies and other flowers to sell.
        After Belgium granted independence to the Congo in 1960, most Europeans (with whom Americans were lumped) left. After Rwanda became independent 1962, the dominant Hutu took control, and persecuted the minority Tutsi, who had historically ruled. Year by year, tensions mounted.
        Mrs. Carr stayed. She befriended Ms. Fossey, who had moved to Rwanda because of violence in Congo. Theirs was a close but stormy relationship, beginning with an argument about where Rwandan gorillas were and were not. Mrs. Carr was right.
        Rwanda's genocide started in 1994 after President Juvénal Habyarimana was assassinated. The Hutu government and Hutu gangs mercilessly attacked Tutsi. Waves of retaliations by Tutsi and counterretaliations by Hutu followed.
        Violence prevented Mrs. Carr and her 120 orphans from returning to their original home until November 2006. The orphanage, now on a larger, more modern campus, is run by her longtime associates.
        Mrs. Carr is survived by her brother, William G. Halsey, of Basking Ridge, N.J., and her sister, Dorothy K. Halsey, of Chatham, Mass.
        In her book, Mrs. Carr rhapsodized about relaxing at day's end in front of a crackling fire in a cozy cottage that never had electricity or modern plumbing.
        ''My day is done,'' she wrote, ''and I wonder with a flutter of anticipation what new adventures and surprises tomorrow will bring.''
        Correction:  October 10, 2006, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Rosamond Carr, a former fashion illustrator who opened an orphanage in Rwanda and was driven from it by violence, misstated the date of the orphans' return to the facility. It was November 2005, not November 2006.
      