
        Bernice Kanner, who brought a quirky sense of humor and curiosity to books and articles on marketing, advertising and more whimsical subjects, died last Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 57.
        The cause was an aneurysm, her daughter, Elisabeth Cuming, said.
        Perhaps best known for writing the On Madison Avenue column for New York magazine from 1981 to 1994, Ms. Kanner also wrote for The New York Times and The Daily News. She was the editor of the monthly magazine WomensBiz.US, and wrote 12 books.
        Ms. Kanner also wrote first-person features for New York magazine, based on experiences like working as a cab driver and behind the counter at Wendy's. ''One of her stunts was to see how hard it was to buy a gun,'' her daughter said.
        In 1999, Ms. Kanner wrote ''The 100 Best TV Commercials  and Why They Worked,'' based on a survey of leading advertising professionals. ''It's chic to say you're immune to advertising,'' Ms. Kanner said, ''but it does invade our pores.''
        Ms. Kanner was born on Jan. 21, 1949, a daughter of Adolph and Lillian Kanner of Manhattan. Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband of 24 years, David Cuming; a son, Andrew; and a sister, Rita Blake, all of Manhattan.
        Ms. Kanner graduated from Harpur College of SUNY at Binghamton, in 1969 and received a master's degree in literature there in 1972. She began her writing career at Advertising Age magazine in 1974.
        In 1996, Ms. Kanner wrote ''Lies My Parents Told Me'' (St. Martin's Press), examining loving deceptions that parents use to protect childhood innocence. ''Did you ever get that promised pony?'' it asked. ''Did you go blind because you touched 'it'?''
        ''Lying is an art,'' the book said. ''For parents, however, it may be an absolute necessity.''
        In ''Are You Normal About Money?'' (Bloomberg Press, 2001), Ms. Kanner posed hypothetical questions, both serious and strange, about Americans' drive to acquire money: Would you swallow a worm for $300? (Twenty-one percent said yes.) Would you shave your head for $10,000? (Fifty-nine percent said yes.) Would you rather personally strike it rich but have a nation at war? (Twelve percent said yes.)
      