
        Dr. Edithe J. Levit, an educator who helped reform the bedside tests required for doctors to be licensed and oversaw the National Board of Medical Examiners in the 1970s and '80s, died on Oct. 18 in Amherst, Mass. She was 79.
        The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Levit joined the board's staff in 1961 and began her studies of testing techniques that led to lasting changes in the ways doctors are evaluated. She was interested in clinical competence and the devising of more objective means for examining a physician's diagnostic course and conduct with patients.
        At the time, candidates for medical licenses were observed by an examiner as they treated actual patients, a method that Dr. Levit thought was too subjective.
        In the 1960s, she helped introduce a written test, called a patient management problem, to replace face-to-face encounters, and she was later an influential voice for adopting audiovisual aids in testing and putting licensing exams on computer.
        Dr. Donald E. Melnick, an internist and the current president of the board, said that Dr. Levit had found earlier clinical exams to be ''not scientifically valid'' and made changes that ''were instrumental in setting a course that guided the board for the next 30 years.''
        Dr. Melnick added that clinical testing had since been refined further, to include computer simulations and actor-patients presenting different ailments, in an effort to make ever more precise assessments of prospective doctors.
        From 1977 to 1986, Dr. Levit served as the board's president and chief executive; she was among the first women to head a national medical organization, according to an account in the National Library of Medicine.
        Edithe Judith Miller was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. She graduated from Bucknell University and received her medical degree from the Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1951.
        She trained initially as an endocrinologist before becoming director of medical education at Philadelphia General Hospital in the 1950s. She retired in 1986.
        Dr. Levit's husband, Dr. Samuel M. Levit, an internist, died in 1994. She lived in Philadelphia before moving to Amherst last year.
        Dr. Levit is survived by two sons, Dr. David Levit of Amherst, a psychoanalyst, and Dr. Harry Levit of New Haven, associate director of undergraduate admissions at Yale; a sister, Sylvia Kaufman of Jerusalem; and two grandchildren.
      