
        Robert Anderson, who as president and chairman of the Rockwell International Corporation oversaw the construction of NASA space shuttles and the controversial B-1 long-range bomber, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said Pamela Tvrdy, a spokeswoman for Rockwell Collins, a company spun off from Rockwell International. (Since the mid-1990s, Rockwell International's divisions and subsidiaries have been merged or spun off, with most of its aerospace and defense business going to the Boeing Company.)
        Mr. Anderson, who retired in 1988, was president of Rockwell International from 1970 until 1979, when he became its chairman and chief executive.
        During Mr. Anderson's tenure, Rockwell was the prime contractor for five of the six space shuttles. Five shuttles actually went into space, starting on April 12, 1981, with the launching of the Columbia. Since then, there have been more than 125 flights. But in 1986, the Challenger blew up during one of its launches, and in 2003, the Columbia was destroyed on re-entry.
        Ms. Tvrdy said she could not provide an estimate of Rockwell International's overall revenue from the shuttle program, but the company's contract for the Discovery, which replaced the Challenger, was worth approximately $2 billion.
        Mr. Anderson forged strong ties with the Reagan administration. That particularly benefited the company in 1981, when the Defense Department revived a plan to build 100 B-1 bombers -- supersonic, swing-wing jets designed to elude radar by flying at low altitudes to deliver nuclear warheads. Mr. Anderson had learned to fly so that he could impress Air Force officers during the company's efforts to get the B-1 revived.
        The program had been canceled by the Carter administration in 1977. Its revival was controversial, with some military planners asserting that the jet would be obsolete before it became operational and pointing out that its cost -- almost $200 million each -- was six times the $35 million price estimated in 1970.
        But the contract was signed, and Mr. Anderson tenaciously pushed the B-1 program through to its completion. The 100th bomber rolled off the production line in the spring of 1988. In 1987, the B-1 accounted for a quarter of the company's sales of $12 billion and a similar percentage of its more than $700 million in net profit.
        But the closing of the program by President Carter -- the largest cancellation of a military production program ever -- had already sent shockwaves through Rockwell International, and the company increased its efforts to diversify.
        ''I've often said that if we had been solely an aerospace company back in 1977 when the B-1 was canceled, we would have been in trouble,'' Mr. Anderson said in a New York Times interview in October 1981. ''And we certainly would have had big problems if we had been only an automotive supplier.''
        By then, Rockwell had moved into the commercial market with the purchase of the Allen-Bradley Company, a maker of factory automation products. It was still flush with government business -- including the space shuttle, research on the Strategic Defense Initiative (popularly called Star Wars), and major satellite and missile contracts. But Rockwell also manufactured industrial products, like truck brakes, printing presses, valves and meters.
        Born in Columbus, Neb., on Nov. 2, 1920, Mr. Anderson was the son of Robert and Lillian Anderson. When he was a child, the family moved to California. Mr. Anderson graduated from Colorado State University with a degree in mechanical engineering in 1943, then served as an Army captain during World War II.
        Mr. Anderson is survived by his wife, Diane; a son, Robert Jr. of Blaine, Wash.; a daughter, Kathleen Thomas of Vancouver; two stepchildren, Keri Anderson of Brentwood, Calif., and Erin Anderson of Tarzana, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
        Before joining North American Rockwell, the predecessor to Rockwell International, in 1968, Mr. Anderson spent 22 years with the Chrysler Corporation, where he rose to vice president and general manager of the Chrysler-Plymouth division.
        He left Chrysler in 1968 to become a vice president at Rockwell and president of its commercial products division.
        Correction:  November 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Robert Anderson, the former president and chairman of the aerospace and manufacturing company Rockwell International, misstated the number of missions flown by NASA space shuttles, which Rockwell built. There have been 116 missions, not ''more than 125.'' The article also misstated the replacement for the shuttle Challenger, which broke apart during take-off in 1986. It was the Endeavour, not the Discovery.
      