
        Ruth S. Morgenthau, a former professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an adviser to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries, died on Saturday in Boston. She was 75 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The death was confirmed by her daughter, Sarah Morgenthau Wessel.
        An advocate of ''bottom-up'' aid to farmers and villagers in the third world, Mrs. Morgenthau was the Adlai Stevenson Professor Emeritus of International Politics at Brandeis, where she taught from 1963 to 2003. She also founded the university's graduate program in international sustainable development.
        ''She combined academic expertise with a practitioner's reality and, in the process, became one of the acknowledged experts in the world on development issues,'' said Stuart E. Eizenstat, a senior official in the Carter and Clinton administrations. ''She really helped shape President Carter's thinking on making Africa a priority for his administration.''
        In 1982, Mrs. Morgenthau and Robert Hecht, then a postdoctoral fellow at Brandeis, wrote an Op-Ed article for The New York Times asserting that the ''top-down'' approach to aid in Africa did not work because bureaucracies ''soak up resources.''
        ''With the bottom-up approach,'' the article said, ''villagers' skills, tools and limited savings can be fully mobilized, and relatively small foreign aid contributions flow directly into rural communities.'' Mrs. Morgenthau put that approach to work as chairwoman of Pact, a coalition with aid programs in 20 nations.
        Ruth Schachter Morgenthau was born in Vienna on Jan. 26, 1931. Her parents, Osias and Mizia Kramer Schachter, owned a textile importing company until they fled from the Nazis in 1940.
        In addition to her daughter, of Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Morgenthau is survived by her husband of 44 years, Henry Morgenthau III, a television producer and author whose father was treasury secretary in the Roosevelt administration. She is also survived by two sons, H. Ben, of San Francisco, and Kramer, of Los Angeles; a sister, Alice Barzilay of Manhattan; and three grandchildren. Her brother-in-law, Robert M. Morgenthau, is the Manhattan district attorney.
        Mrs. Morgenthau graduated from Barnard College in 1952, then attended the Institut d'Études Politiques in Paris as a Fulbright scholar. In 1958, she received a doctorate in politics from Oxford. In 1964, she wrote ''Political Parties in French-Speaking West Africa'' (Oxford University Press). She was a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations, and in 1988 ran unsuccessfully as a Democratic candidate for Congress in Rhode Island.
        Last year, Mrs. Morgenthau was a member of a committee created by the Center for Global Development, a Washington research group, to assess the danger posed by poor nations. Mr. Eizenstat, who also worked on the committee, said she was a prime shaper of the report and had emphasized that aid was central to American security because poor nations were becoming havens for terrorists and criminals.
        Correction:  November 14, 2006, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Ruth S. Morgenthau, a scholar of international politics and a presidential adviser on aid to third world countries, misstated the date of her death. It was Nov. 4, not Saturday.
      