
        Jimmy Buffett, accompanied by Allen Toussaint on piano, had just finished singing ''Do You Know What It Means to Miss New Orleans?'' at the memorial service for his friend Ed Bradley yesterday when a tall, white-haired figure ascended the pulpit for a eulogy unbilled in the program. It was Bill Clinton.
        ''I knew I had arrived in national politics when Ed Bradley wanted to interview me,'' Mr. Clinton told the more than 2,000 people who had assembled at Riverside Church in Manhattan to pay tribute to Mr. Bradley, who died on Nov. 9. ''I always preferred watching him interview others.''
        Then, recalling the brief period he spent after his presidency as a colleague of Mr. Bradley's on ''60 Minutes'' -- appearing in miniaturized debates with Bob Dole -- Mr. Clinton said, ''It was the only time in my entire public life I felt protected from Ed Bradley.''
        At the conclusion of Mr. Clinton's remarks, a lone trumpet sounded from the back of the sanctuary. It belonged to another friend of Mr. Bradley's, Wynton Marsalis, who began wending his way toward the front as he played Duke Ellington's mournful ''Black and Tan Fantasy.''
        Mr. Marsalis's route took him down what could best be described as Main Street in the remarkably eclectic world inhabited by Mr. Bradley, a 35-year veteran of CBS News, who died of complications of leukemia at 65.
        By the time Mr. Marsalis reached the pulpit, he had passed Howard Stern and Paul Simon, each of whom had once been interviewed by Mr. Bradley; Brian Williams and Meredith Vieira, now co-workers at NBC but once colleagues of Mr. Bradley's at CBS; Dan Rather and Diane Sawyer, also formerly of CBS, who sat together one row in front of Walter Cronkite and a row behind Mike Wallace and Andy Rooney, who survive Mr. Bradley on ''60 Minutes.'' Nearby were Katie Couric, who now anchors the ''CBS Evening News''; Connie Chung, who once co-anchored it; and Lara Logan, the young foreign correspondent, who may yet some day.
        Sprinkled among those heavyweights of broadcast journalism were the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Rev. Al Sharpton, David N. Dinkins, Spike Lee, Chris Rock, Aaron Neville (who sang ''Amazing Grace'' and referred to Mr. Bradley as ''the fifth Neville brother'') and Bill Cosby (who also spoke).
        The service they attended -- which ended on a raucous note, when the crowd was sent out dancing and waving handkerchiefs behind the Rebirth Brass Band of New Orleans -- extended to more than two hours in its attempt to synthesize a life that was often as compelling off camera as it was on.
        Howard Stringer, once a CBS producer who traveled extensively with Mr. Bradley and now the chairman of the Sony Corporation of America, told a story of Mr. Bradley falling asleep at a performance of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony during a visit by the Boston Symphony Orchestra to China in the 1970s, only to miss an interview he had scheduled at intermission with Deng Xiaoping.
        Later, on a trip to Malaysia, Mr. Stringer said, he watched as an entire village convinced itself that Mr. Bradley was Muhammad Ali. ''We didn't disabuse the locals,'' he said. ''After a while, Ed warmed to the idea. He began to shadow-box.''
        Several speakers noted that Mr. Bradley was among the first black journalists to appear prominently on network television, but that his legacy as a broadcaster was far broader.
        Harry Radliffe, a producer at ''60 Minutes'' who was one of several who spoke on behalf of what they described as ''Team Bradley,'' said, ''Ed's reporting was obviously strongly influenced by his heritage, but was not confined or colored by it.''
        Another CBS colleague, Steve Kroft, said he would forever remember Mr. Bradley's perspective on life -- including the Savile Row suits, fine wines, jazz records and Cuban cigars he savored.
        ''He was never driven by the '60 Minutes' stopwatch,'' Mr. Kroft said.
      