
        Yuri Levada, a sociologist and pollster whose surveys provided some of the most reliable information about public opinion in the Soviet Union and then Russia, died at his office in Moscow on Thursday. He was 76.
        A colleague at the Levada Analytical Center, Leonid Sedov, told The Associated Press that the cause was a heart attack.
        Mr. Levada's career had three distinct phases defined by power shifts at the Kremlin. He began his work in the mid-1960s at the beginning of the Brezhnev era, conducting polls on a relatively wide range of subjects while avoiding questions about private property, religion and the Communist Party.
        He encountered problems later in the decade when he ventured into more sensitive areas, like readers' opinions of the Soviet newspaper Pravda. In 1969, he criticized the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in his book ''Lectures on Sociology'' and was fired from his position at Moscow State University and barred from conducting further research.
        Mr. Levada returned to his work during the glasnost period of Mikhail S. Gorbachev. In the late 1980s, he joined the All-Soviet Center for Public Opinion Studies, where he was allowed to directly question citizens about their political beliefs, attitudes toward Communism and opinions of the government.
        As Russia held its first elections after the collapse of the Soviet Union, he also began conducting American-style surveys of the Russian electorate to analyze voting patterns.
        In 1992, Mr. Levada became the director of what was by then known as the All-Russian Center for Public Opinion Studies. Over the next decade, his surveys revealed popular discontent with the standard of living and the war in Chechnya, as well as the public's gloomy outlook on the future.
        These polls, along with others showing a highly negative opinion of President Vladimir V. Putin's governing party, eventually brought him into conflict with authorities. In 2003, Mr. Putin moved to assert control over the center by placing his own representatives on its board of directors.
        Faced with a loss of independence, Mr. Levada resigned and formed a private company, the Levada Analytical Center, which conducts research for clients including Russian, Georgian and Western organizations.
      