
        Samuel B. Casey Jr., who as president, chief executive and chairman of Pullman Inc. in the 1970s oversaw the company's transformation from a manufacturer of luxury railroad cars to a builder of vast construction projects, died Oct. 12 in Naples, Fla., his hometown. He was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Helen Angell Casey.
        On Dec. 1, 1970, 10 weeks after he was named chief executive, Mr. Casey called a meeting of Pullman executives and told them to go after his job, because he planned to raise annual revenue above $1 billion within a decade and then resign. He did.
        By the time Mr. Casey took over, Pullman had diversified into building freight cars and, through acquisitions, into engineering and construction. Mr. Casey expanded those operations. In the early '70s, Pullman signed $75 million in contracts with the Ministry of Foreign Trade of the Soviet Union for design work at a huge truck factory on the Kama River, 550 miles east of Moscow. The project was a showpiece of the Soviet Union's five-year economic plan.
        Within two years, construction teams had beaten their deadline and the Russian winter and had completed the shells of factory buildings covering 85 acres. ''Simply incredible,'' Mr. Casey said in January 1974, after a visit to the site. ''It is cold as charity out there, 33 degrees below zero, but the buildings are closed.''
        Under Mr. Casey's direction, Pullman built bridges, roads and airport runways. In October 1978, eight years after arriving, he resigned as president and chief executive to become chairman, while announcing that Pullman had record revenue of more than $1.8 billion -- up from $700 million in 1970. Two years later, the company was acquired by Wheelabrator-Frye Inc., which soon stopped producing railroad passenger cars.
        Samuel Brown Casey Jr. was born on Oct. 14, 1927, in Pittsburgh, the son of Samuel and Constance Connelly Casey. His father was president of the John F. Casey Company, a construction company started by his grandfather in the 1890s that became a prime contractor in building the Pennsylvania Railroad.
        Mr. Casey's studies at Pennsylvania State University were interrupted by service in the Army Air Corps. He completed his bachelor's degree in civil engineering at Penn State in 1950. Ten years later, he took over as president of the family company.
        In addition to his wife of 26 years, Mr. Casey is survived by two daughters, Margaret Curl and Ann Murray Casey, both of Washington; two sons, Samuel Casey III of Washington, and John Dobbins of Chicago; and five grandchildren. His previous marriage, to Margaret Fox of Pittsburgh, ended in divorce.
      