
        David K. Wyatt, a student of Southeast Asian history who marshaled his ability to do research in seven languages to become one of the pre-eminent historians of Thailand, died on Tuesday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 69.
        The cause was emphysema and congestive heart failure, said Blaine Friedlander, a spokesman for Cornell University, where Dr. Wyatt taught for 36 years. Dr. Wyatt had had multiple sclerosis for several years.
        Dr. Wyatt wrote ''Thailand: A Short History,'' first published in 1984, which became a standard text. The Asian Wall Street Journal said in a review of the book's revised second edition (2003) that it provided ''a clearer understanding of where Thailand stands in relation to its neighbors, who the Thai people are, how the Thai government evolved into its present form.''
        B. J. Terwiel, writing about the book's second edition in 2003 in The American Historical Review, said, ''In range and scope this would seem to be the most ambitious history of the Thais ever published. It moves from theories on the origin of Tai-speaking peoples several millennia ago right up to the 1980s.''
        Dr. Wyatt was recognized for his analyses of Thai royalty as well as his sensitivity to cultural phenomena, as reflected in his 1993 book about the murals in Buddhist temples. He said that the murals, in what was once the kingdom of Nan and later a province of Thailand, reflected the theme of orphanhood, something he said was not found on any other temple murals. He suggested that this was a veiled protest over Nan's loss of independence.
        Dr. Wyatt was a voracious collector of historical Southeast Asian documents, including Thai royal diaries. Last year, Ohio University acquired his 15,000 documents.
        Dr. Wyatt was also a former chairman of Cornell's history department and a former president of the Association for Asian Studies.
        David Kent Wyatt was born in Fitchburg, Mass., in 1937, and grew up in Iowa. He earned an undergraduate degree in philosophy from Harvard, a master's degree in history from Boston University and a doctorate in Southeast Asian history from Cornell.
        He said in an interview with Cornell People, a university publication, that he became interested in Southeast Asia by reading about current events in newspapers and in books like ''The Ugly American.'' His wife, the former Alene Wilson, who had grown up in Pakistan and attended school in India, also spurred his interest in Asia.
        In addition to her, Dr. Wyatt is survived by his sons, Douglas, of Belmont, Calif., Andrew, of Ithaca, and James, of Kent, Wash.; his brothers, John, of Easley, S.C., and Richard Gist, of Columbia, Md.; his sisters, Deborah Stanbury, of Prosser, Wash., and Penelope Saulnier, of Fitchburg, Mass., and five grandchildren.
        Dr. Wyatt's hobby was singing bass, baritone or tenor roles with a Gilbert and Sullivan group. In 1977, he found himself sitting next to the crown princess of Thailand at a dinner when each guest was asked to sing a song. She insisted he sing one.
        For what he regarded as his royal command performance, Dr. Wyatt sang ''Autumn Leaves.''
      