
        Thomas R. Jones, a New York State assemblyman and judge who challenged Senator Robert F. Kennedy to address urban malaise and became the founding chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a leading organization in the 1960s' effort to revitalize urban ghettos, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 93.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his son, David R. Jones.
        Justice Jones was part of a pioneering generation of black lawyers, clergymen and other professionals who transformed Brooklyn politics after World War II by agitating for civil rights, running for office and pressing for governmental action to improve the squalid conditions of urban slums.
        Justice Jones, then a Civil Court judge, famously confronted Mr. Kennedy on Feb. 4, 1966, as the senator toured dilapidated buildings in Bedford-Stuyvesant. The judge told Mr. Kennedy that study after study of urban blight had been conducted, with little action.
        ''I'm weary of study, senator, very weary,'' Justice Jones said. ''The Negro people are angry, senator, and judge that I am, I'm angry too.''
        Mr. Kennedy took up the challenge and that December announced the creation of what became the Restoration Corporation, with Justice Jones as its first chairman. It became a model for community development corporations around the country over the following decades.
        Before entering public life, Justice Jones was a tireless civil rights lawyer. During the war he defended black American soldiers accused of wrongdoing in occupied Europe.
        Thomas Russell Jones was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 5, 1913, a son of Thomas S. Jones, a podiatrist, and Mabel Ward Jones, immigrants from Mount Gay, Barbados. He attended public schools and received undergraduate and law degrees from St. John's University. He was admitted to the bar in 1938.
        As a young lawyer, he was elected chairman of the New York Youth Congress, an antifascist group supported by Eleanor Roosevelt. He joined the Army in 1941 and, as a first lieutenant, took part in the Normandy invasion and was named a court-martial judge in Belgium in 1944.
        Returning to Brooklyn, he became counsel to the local branch of the N.A.A.C.P. and an advocate against police brutality. Active in his Democratic reform circles, Justice Jones was elected to the State Assembly in 1962. In 1964, he was elected a Civil Court judge, and in 1967, a State Supreme Court justice. He considered running for Congress in 1968 and 1974 and was considered a finalist for the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, in the 1970s.
        Elsie Richardson, 84, a longtime neighborhood activist, recalled that it was she who first told Senator Kennedy during the 1966 visit that the neighborhood's problems had been ''studied to death.'' Justice Jones echoed her criticism, she said, ''and as an important person in the community, it meant something. Robert Kennedy really got an impression of where the community was coming from.''
        In December 1966, Senator Kennedy announced the creation of two groups -- one of community leaders, the other of prominent businessmen -- to cooperate in the redevelopment of Bedford-Stuyvesant. He outlined plans to build health clinics, rehabilitate housing, build playgrounds and spur commercial activity.
        The community group, led by Justice Jones, attracted grants from philanthropies like the Astor and Ford Foundations, but there was disagreement over the proper extent of grass-roots involvement. In April 1967, he broke with the board after he called for expanding it to include more young people, civil rights activists and antipoverty workers. With the blessing of Mr. Kennedy, Senator Jacob K. Javits and Mayor John V. Lindsay, he immediately started a new group, the Restoration Corporation.
        In June 1967, the new body received a $7 million federal grant for job training, health clinics, recreation and other programs. Justice Jones recruited Franklin A. Thomas -- then a deputy police commissioner and later president of the Ford Foundation -- to be the corporation's first executive director.
        Mr. Kennedy's assassination in June 1968 devastated Justice Jones, his son said, and eventually led him to focus more of his time on his judicial work. Describing his sensitivity to racial justice, he told The New York Times in 1974: ''I come out of a ghetto, out of the experience of a racist society. Constitutional liberties are more critical for me.''
        He retired in 1985 but remained active in legal circles. With his wife, Bertha K. Jones, whom he wed in 1941, he founded a nonprofit group to help poor children. In addition to her and his son, David, the president and chief executive of the Community Service Society of New York, his survivors include a sister, Grace Killens, and a daughter, Margaret A. DeLaCour. All are of Brooklyn. Five grandchildren also survive.
        In 1955, during the McCarthy era, Justice Jones defended three Chinese workers in the United States who were convicted and sentenced to prison on charges of helping Communist China by sending money to friends and relatives there. The Supreme Court declined to hear their appeal. In 1980, Justice Jones accepted an invitation to speak in Beijing about the case and the American legal system.
      