
        Jesús Blancornelas, a fearless journalist who won several awards for his crusade against drug cartels and survived an assassination attempt in 1997, died Thursday in Tijuana, where he founded Zeta magazine. He was 70.
        News reports in Mexico announced his death, but the cause has not been confirmed.
        Mr. Blancornelas was one of the first Mexican journalists to expose the infamous Arellano Félix drug cartel in Tijuana, publishing pictures of the leaders and writing about the way drug dealers corrupted local and state officials. He and his companions at Zeta also won praise for their investigation of the assassination of Luis Donaldo Colosio in 1994, concluding that a lone gunman had been responsible.
        The author of six books, Mr. Blancornelas was considered Mexico's leading expert on organized crime and the corruption it spawns. In recent years, he was recognized by the United Nations, Reporters Without Borders, the Inter-American Press Society and other groups for his contributions to freedom of expression in a country where reporters are regularly killed for crossing politicians and mobsters.
        In March 2005, he won the Daniel Pearl Award for Courage and Integrity in Journalism. ''There are others who deserve this prize more than me,'' he said then, ''but for some reason they chose me, and I receive it in the name of others who cover this sort of thing.''
        He paid a high price for his integrity. After publishing an expose on the Arellano Félix cartel in 1997, several gunmen ambushed him and his driver in his car in Tijuana. He was severely wounded in the abdomen and suffered complications for the rest of his life. His driver died.
        Mr. Blancornelas's close friend and co-founder of Zeta magazine, Héctor Félix Miranda, was assassinated in April 1988, presumably as a result of articles about corruption they had published. Another writer for the magazine, Francisco Ortíz Franco, was killed on June 22, 2004, by gunmen linked to the Tijuana cartel, a crime Mr. Blancornelas investigated tirelessly until illness incapacitated him this year.
        Mr. Blancornelas, a slight man with glasses and gray hair, lived his last years with an armed escort of more than 15 soldiers, provided by the government, a prisoner in his own house and office.
        In an interview this year with The New York Times, he said that he was not afraid of death and that he believed that the time of his own passing was in the hands of a higher power, not the cartel members he had written about. He also harshly criticized the Mexican police for doing nothing to stop the murders of journalists. ''The government does not investigate because the government is complicit,'' he said.
        He was born in San Luis Potosi in 1936 and began his career as a sports editor for various newspapers in Mexico's northern states, among them La Voz de la Frontera in Tijuana and El Imparcial in Hermosillo.
        But it was in Tijuana in 1977 that he started his own newspaper, ABC, and began publishing investigative reports. Three years later, he was forced out of ABC, and with Mr. Miranda he founded Zeta. The two began publishing reports about crime and corruption that no one in Tijuana, or anywhere in Mexico for that matter, had been willing to touch.
        A comment he made in another recent interview published on the Web site Impunidad summed up his attitude toward the drug dealers he pursued relentlessly in print. ''If I stop writing about them, if I stop saying what they are doing, they will think, 'This guy has given up,' '' he said. ''If they see that, they will do the same to other journalists. For me, to write about them is like life insurance.''
        He is survived by his wife, Genoveva Villalón De Blanco; and three sons, José Jesús, Ramón Tomás and César René.
      