
        Jens Christian Hauge, who led Norway's underground military resistance during World War II, then helped shape his nation's postwar future by using high political and business positions to carve out pro-Western but independent policies, died Monday in Oslo. He was 91.
        The Norwegian government announced his death.
        As defense minister, Mr. Hauge (pronounced hoag) led in bringing Norway from its traditional posture of neutrality into the Western alliance against the Soviet Union and prodded his country into a steep postwar arms buildup. But he also helped bar North Atlantic Treaty Organization bases and the stockpiling of nuclear weapons in Norway.
        After oil was found in the Norwegian portion of the North Sea in 1968, he led the formation of a national oil company similar to those that countries like Libya and Kuwait were then creating. This allowed Norway greater control over the ultimate use of its petroleum, leading to development of a domestic petrochemical industry, which, in turn, spawned fertilizer enterprises and other businesses.
        He was deeply involved in developing Norway's nuclear policy, successfully urging that money allocated to long-range artillery be redirected to Norway's first reactor. He helped his country provide France and Israel with nuclear expertise.
        Mr. Hauge was the only Norwegian to exercise his country's right to inspect Israel's nuclear program. He did this in 1961.
        Mr. Hauge was defense minister from 1945 until 1952 and justice minister in 1955. After helping form Statoil, Norway's state-owned oil company, he was its first chairman. He also helped start the Scandinavian Airline System, or S.A.S., and was its chairman.
        Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of Norway, calling Mr. Hauge a giant, characterized him as the ''architect of postwar foreign and security policy, and as a builder of modern industrial Norway.''
        Mr. Hauge was born on May 15, 1915. He earned a law degree from the University of Oslo in 1937 and took a job in the government's price-control office. In 1941 or 1942, he joined Milorg, the main armed Norwegian resistance group, and assumed leadership in early 1943, according to ''The Bitter Years: The Invasion and Occupation of Denmark and Norway, April 1940-May 1945,'' a 1974 book by Richard Petrow.
        The politics of his position were perilous. Churchill wanted resistance groups ''to set Europe ablaze,'' which the Communists and others were eager to do. But the official policy of the Allies' top military command, Norway's government in exile in London and Norwegian civilian resistance leaders all forbade major violence until an Allied invasion of Norway.
        In May 1943, Mr. Hauge traveled to Stockholm, which was neutral ground, to meet with the Norwegian High Command, who had come from London. Mr. Hague assured the military leaders that Milorg would refrain from sabotage in return for the leaders' approval of forming an underground army.
        He then devoted himself to organizing a network through which fighters would know if someone was arrested and subjected to torture. He strove to keep up morale, which he said was tough in the absence of combat.
        ''Instead of tasks, they got directives,'' he said, according to Mr. Petrow's book. ''Instead of guns, they got paper.''
        As the war neared its end, Mr. Hauge worried that Milorg's seeming reluctance to fight, even though it reflected orders from the highest levels, might weaken its influence in forming a new government after the fighting stopped. The London high command nonetheless still rejected open acts of war.
        Everything suddenly changed when the Germans attacked through the Ardennes Forest on the German-Belgian border in December 1944, a move that began the Battle of the Bulge. Allied generals ordered Milorg to risk all to stop German troops from leaving Norway for the front. Mr. Hogue's men quickly committed about 30 acts of sabotage.
        Mr. Hauge was recognized as a hero when his role became known after the war, and he soon put his prestige to work. As defense minister, he pushed the military to improve the quality of its defense, not just the quantity. He helped negotiate the treaty that created NATO.
        He angered Norway's finance minister by diverting resources from domestic consumption and homebuilding, but succeeded in reaching his planned expansion of Norway's defense by 1952, rather than two years later as originally planned.
        His wife, Liv Elisabeth Grannes, whom he married in 1958, died earlier. Mr. Hauge is survived by six children and an unspecified number of grandchildren, said Ari Strommen, a spokesman for the Norwegian Embassy in Washington.
      