
        Adrienne Shelly, an actress, film writer and director who first gained recognition for her roles in Hal Hartley's dark comedies ''The Unbelievable Truth'' and ''Trust,'' was found dead on Wednesday at her office in Greenwich Village. She was 40.
        Grace Brugess, a spokeswoman for the New York City Medical Examiner's Office, said yesterday that further tests would be necessary to determine the cause of death.
        Ms. Shelly played leading or featured roles in more than two dozen Off Broadway plays (many at the Workhouse Theater in Manhattan), in movies and on television shows. Last year she was featured in the movie ''Factotum,'' starring Matt Dillon. She had recently finished directing ''Waitress,'' a movie she wrote and directed, which is under consideration for inclusion in the Sundance Film Festival.
        Ms. Shelly wrote and directed several other independent films, including ''Sudden Manhattan'' (1997), in which zany characters collide in Lower Manhattan, and ''I'll Take You There'' (1999), a romantic comedy about a real estate broker whose wife leaves him for his best friend.
        Ms. Shelly, who changed her name from Adrienne Levine, was born on June 16, 1966, in Queens. She is survived by her husband, Andy Ostroy, and a daughter, Sophie.
        Ms. Shelly started performing at 9 in arts camps on Long Island and upstate. She dropped out of Boston University after her junior year and moved to Manhattan.
        She got her break in movies in 1989 when Mr. Hartley cast her as the lead in ''The Unbelievable Truth,'' his bizarre comedy about a high school senior obsessed with nuclear annihilation. A year later, with Ms. Shelly in mind, Mr. Hartley revised a script he had written as a film student, ''Trust,'' another dark comedy, which touched on child abuse, abortion and mental illness. In 1993 Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Shelly was ''a spirited and captivating actress capable of perfect deadpan delivery.''
        Pointing out that her acting style was often described as ''quirky,'' Ms. Shelly once said that ''when you read 'quirky' over and over again, 'quirky' starts to feel like an insult.'' In 2002 her performance in the movie ''Revolution No. 9,'' a psychodrama in which she played the fiancée of a young man slipping into schizophrenia, was described by the Times critic A. O. Scott as ''subtle and restrained.''
      