
        Anita O'Day, whose coolly ebullient and rhythmically assured vocal style made her a premier singer of both the big-band and postwar jazz eras, and whose taste for fast living secured her name as one of jazz's toughest survivors, died yesterday in Los Angeles. She was 87.
        Her death was announced by her manager, Robbie Cavolina, who said that she had been recovering from pneumonia. Ms. O'Day had no children or immediate family, he said.
        ''When you think of the great jazz singers, I would think that Anita is the only white woman that belongs in the same breath as Ella Fitzgerald and Billie Holiday and Sarah Vaughan,'' said the jazz critic Will Friedwald in ''Anita O'Day: Life of a Jazz Singer,'' a forthcoming documentary directed by Mr. Cavolina and Ian McCrudden.
        Born Anita Belle Colton in Chicago, Ms. O'Day began her career as a dance-marathon contestant. She adopted her stage name early on. ''I'd decided O'Day was groovy,'' she explained in ''High Times Hard Times,'' her unvarnished autobiography written with George Eells, ''because in pig Latin it meant dough, which was what I hoped to make.''
        Through most of the 1940s, Ms. O'Day ranked among the best of the big-band vocalists. Her first big break came with the Gene Krupa Orchestra, and it was with that band that she had her first hit, a duet with the trumpeter Roy Eldridge called ''Let Me Off Uptown.'' Though essentially a novelty tune, it was also a bold stroke at a time when black and white musicians were still not commonly heard side by side.
        It wasn't the only boundary Ms. O'Day would push during her early years in the spotlight. Bucking the glamorous expectations of a big-band canary, or ''girl singer,'' she performed in a standard-issue band jacket and skirt. This tomboyish image proved both influential and a bit scandalous, like a number of things in Ms. O'Day's life and career.
        After Krupa, Ms. O'Day worked more briefly with the orchestras of Woody Herman and Stan Kenton. Her version of ''And Her Tears Flowed Like Wine'' was one of Kenton's biggest hits up to that time.
        Ms. O'Day's personal life was famously a cyclone of drug and alcohol abuse, marriages, numerous abortions and affairs. She had a weakness for drummers: her first husband, Don Carter, played drums, and so did her closest musical partner for many years, John Poole. In 1947 she made headlines for her arrest, with her second husband, Carl Hoff, for marijuana possession. She was arrested again in 1952, and went to prison. Her near-death from a heroin overdose in the late 1960s prompted a serious try at rehabilitation.
        Ms. O'Day always maintained that her notoriety helped fuel her success, and the music doesn't contradict her. In the 1950s she made a string of well-produced pop albums on Verve Records, with what would become signature renditions of ''Honeysuckle Rose'' and ''Sweet Georgia Brown.''
        Her Sunday afternoon performance at the 1958 Newport Jazz Festival, as captured in Bert Stern's film ''Jazz on a Summer's Day,'' was one of her great offhanded achievements. Turned out in a crisp black dress and ostrich-feathered hat, she sang an insinuating ''Sweet Georgia Brown'' and a breakneck ''Tea for Two,'' both with a playful mastery.
        Ms. O'Day was fond of asserting that she was not a singer, but a song stylist; she took pride in her self-made technique and her ability to deliver a tune with confidence, no matter how frenetic the setting. It was the same skill that she emphasized in her life. ''Given a choice,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''I wanted to be where the action was.''
      