
        Nicholas Proffitt, a war correspondent for Newsweek in Vietnam and Beirut who also wrote a novel and a screenplay based on his service in the honor guard at Arlington National Cemetery, died on Nov. 10 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 63.
        The cause was kidney cancer, his wife Martie Hudson Proffitt said.
        An Army brat with a deep appreciation for the grunts in field, Mr. Proffitt covered the Vietnam War for Newsweek as a correspondent in 1970 and as its Saigon bureau chief in 1971. In April 1975, after three years of reporting on the civil strife in Lebanon as Newsweek's Beirut bureau chief, Mr. Proffitt returned to Vietnam to cover the fall of Saigon.
        The eldest son of a career Army sergeant, Mr. Proffitt spent his childhood on military bases around the country. In 1961, after graduating from high school, he enlisted in the Army. He then took a test and was accepted as a West Point cadet, only to drop out after a semester. Obliged to complete his three-year enlistment, Mr. Proffitt was assigned to the honor guard at Arlington National Cemetery.
        His experiences there inspired Mr. Proffitt's first novel, ''Gardens of Stone'' (Carroll & Graf, 1983), about a sergeant who is first frustrated by burying dead soldiers rather than serving in Vietnam, then devastated by the combat death of a friend. The book was made into a film, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, in 1987.
        Nicholas Charles Proffitt was born on Feb. 23, 1943, in Sault Ste. Marie, Wis., a son of Stanley and Rose Proffitt. Besides his wife and his mother, who lives in Kaukauna, Wis., Mr. Proffitt is survived by two sons, Timothy of Houston and Paine of Stoke-on-Trent, England; a daughter, Lucia, of Philadelphia; a brother, Stanley, of Winneconne, Wis.; and five grandchildren. His first marriage, to Nan Grabb, ended in divorce in 1970.
        After his Army service, Mr. Proffitt attended the University of Arizona, where he earned a degree in journalism in 1968. Soon after, he was hired as a reporter in Newsweek's Los Angeles bureau, and a year later was assigned to Vietnam. Following his stint in Lebanon, Mr. Proffitt was Newsweek's bureau chief in London, Houston and Nairobi. He retired in 1981 and began writing novels.
        After ''Gardens of Stone,'' he wrote ''Embassy House'' (Bantam, 1986), about C.I.A. operations in Vietnam, and ''Edge of Eden'' (Bantam, 1990), about animal poaching in Africa, based on his time there.
        Correction:  November 18, 2006, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about the war correspondent and writer Nicholas Proffitt misidentified the state where his birthplace, Sault Ste. Marie, is located. It is Michigan, not Wisconsin.
      