
        George B. Thomas Jr., a mathematician whose widely read calculus textbook has introduced legions of students to the challenges of functions, derivatives and integrals since the early 1950s, died on Oct. 31 in State College, Pa. He was 92.
        Dr. Thomas's death was confirmed by his family.
        His book, ''Calculus and Analytic Geometry,'' was published by Addison-Wesley in 1951 and remains in print, now in its 11th edition as ''Thomas' Calculus.'' It was intended for undergraduates but has since become a text in high schools, where it is assigned for advanced courses in calculus, the branch of mathematics that deals with quantities and limits, areas, and volumes of spaces, among other topics.
        Dr. Thomas, who taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for four decades, was the sole author until the 1970s, when he began a collaboration with another mathematician, Ross Lee Finney III, in making periodic revisions.
        Hartley Rogers Jr., a professor of mathematics at M.I.T., praised Dr. Thomas's clarity and selection of problems and said his book represented ''a new departure'' from previous texts.
        ''George Thomas presented calculus in a way that was closer to real mathematics,'' Dr. Rogers said, ''giving a strong sense of functions and number systems that hadn't been adequately emphasized in earlier textbooks.''
        At the outset of his career, Dr. Thomas had considered teaching high school math, and he later helped coach and prepare schoolteachers in calculus and other subjects. With Frederick Mosteller and R. E. K. Rourke, he wrote another textbook, ''Probability and Statistics'' (Addison-Wesley, 1961).
        George Brinton Thomas Jr. was born in Boise, Idaho. He received his undergraduate and master's degrees from Washington State College before earning a doctorate in mathematics from Cornell in 1940.
        Dr. Thomas was named an assistant professor of mathematics at M.I.T. in 1944 and became a professor in 1960. He retired in 1978.
        Dr. Thomas's wife of 39 years, the former Jane Heath, died in 1975. He then married Thais Erving, who died in 1983. He lived in Concord, Mass., before moving to State College in 1990.
        He is survived by two daughters, Fay Bakhru of Glen Mills, Pa., a former math teacher, and Jean Thomas of West Chester, Pa.; a son, James H. of Owls Head, Me.; three sisters, Trudy Nelson of Twin Falls, Idaho, Carol Hypes of Greeley, Colo., and Peggy Turner of Lubbock, Tex.; two stepdaughters, Melissa Goggin of Beverly, Mass., and Susan Hamill of Union, Me.; a stepson, Brad Waldron of Beverly; nine grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      