
        Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, a self-described ''agitator in ideas'' who helped mold the intellectual and political life of France and whose 1967 book warning of American economic domination of Europe provoked a firestorm on both sides of the Atlantic, died yesterday in Fécamp, in northwest France. He was 82.
        The cause was complications of bronchitis, his son Édouard told The Associated Press. He had long been afflicted with a degenerative brain disease.
        Mr. Servan-Schreiber called himself a public man, and for nearly half a century as author, publisher and politician, he helped set the public agenda in France.
        He started an influential magazine, L'Express; was prosecuted for writing a book on torture he saw as a French soldier in Algeria; won and lost elective offices; headed a political party; and served in France's governing cabinet.
        ''One life wasn't enough to contain his energy, creativity and enthusiasm so he forged multiple destinies,'' President Jacques Chirac said in a statement.
        Mr. Servan-Schreiber's book ''The American Challenge'' crystallized a historical moment when American investment seemed to some like a tidal wave about to submerge the European economy.
        But rather than advocating protectionism, Mr. Servan-Schreiber proposed that Europe unite economically, welcome almost any kind of investment from anywhere, and get to work emulating American innovation and management.
        ''The evil is not the capacity of the Americans, but rather the incapacity of the Europeans,'' he wrote.
        Even though some original reviewers thought it too pro-American, ''The American Challenge'' has retained relevance over the years. In 1988, The Economist published a long article praising Mr. Servan-Schreiber for promoting free trade and open markets while still advocating nationalist goals. In 1996, the magazine said journalists, politicians and historians continued to refer to the book when discussing the effects of American capitalism on Europe.
        The book was an instant best seller, selling 600,000 copies in France, most unusual for a political essay. It was published in 22 languages and eventually sold more than three million copies.
        Mr. Servan-Schreiber emerged as an intriguing personality, with the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. calling him ''a European of the Kennedy generation'' in the forward to the book's American edition (1968). He liked to be known by just the initials JJSS, the ''most famous initials in France, along with BB, for Brigitte Bardot,'' he claimed in an interview with The Washington Post in 1981.
        Unlike many of his countrymen, he was eager to converse in English and hardly spurned labels like ''the Lone Ranger of French economics'' that kept coming up. The Post wrote: ''In the era of the American century, he seemed to be the Frenchman of the era.''
        Mr. Servan-Schreiber was the grandson of Joseph Schreiber, a German Jew who was political secretary to Bismarck, the unifier of Germany, The New York Times Magazine reported in 1968. When Bismarck prepared to fight France, Mr. Schreiber, a Francophile, went into exile in Paris. His French-born son Émile Schreiber adopted the literary pseudonym Servan during World War II, and after the war, the family called itself Servan-Schreiber.
        Jean-Jacques Schreiber was born in Paris on Feb. 13, 1924, the eldest son of Émile Servan and the former Denise Brésard. His father and an uncle founded Les Échos, the first French newspaper to specialize in financial, economic and industrial news. The influential father introduced his young son to cabinet officers and other highly placed people.
        Though Jean-Jacques and his four siblings were raised as Catholics, the family fled to Spain when the Nazis conquered France and began to persecute people of Jewish heritage. From there, Jean-Jacques went to Alabama to train to fly a fighter for the Free French. He never saw combat, but was fascinated with America.
        After the war, he earned an engineering degree at the École Polytechnique. After briefly running a hotel in Brazil with Madeleine Chapsal, his first wife, he joined Le Monde, the prestigious Paris newspaper, as a political writer. After briefly leaving to write for Paris-Presse, he became Le Monde's political editor.
        In 1953, with his close friend Françoise Giroud, he founded L'Express, which began as a leftist weekly publishing authors like Camus, Sartre and Malraux. It later became less politicized, and it so closely resembled a French version of Time that Time sued. In L'Express, Mr. Servan-Schreiber fiercely attacked France's colonial war in Algeria.
        The government soon relaxed its practice of not drafting junior officers who had seen World War II experience and drafted him. He was sent to Algeria and served with distinction.
        But after leaving the army, he wrote a fiery book castigating French behavior there and was indicted on charges of subverting the troops' morale. The charges were dropped.
        He was later secretary general and president of the Radical-Socialist Party, and lost two campaigns for the National Assembly before winning and serving three terms or partial terms. He was minister of reform for 12 days during the administration of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing before resigning in protest over France's nuclear testing.
        His books included ''The World Challenge,'' published in the United States in 1981, which argued that computers were the salvation of mankind. In the mid-1980s, he moved to Pittsburgh to teach at Carnegie Mellon University, where his sons David, Émile, Franklin and Édouard studied.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, the former Sabine Becq de Fouquières, their sons; and two grandchildren.
        Another highlight of Mr. Servan-Schreiber's career was working as a young man as an aide to Pierre Mendès-France, the 1950's prime minister perhaps best remembered in the United States for his spectacularly unsuccessful campaign to persuade the French to drink milk instead of wine.
        In interview in The Washington Post, Mr. Servan-Schreiber was asked why America had not gobbled up Europe as he had predicted. He had a ready answer: ''They listened to my warning. They did what I told them.''
      