
        Ferenc Puskas, a prolific goal scorer for the national soccer team of Hungary and the Real Madrid club in Spain and, by wide agreement, the game's first international superstar, died yesterday in Budapest. He was 79.
        His death was announced by a family spokesman, Gyorgy Szollosy, The Associated Press reported. Puskas had Alzheimer's disease and had been staying in a government-run hospital for the past six years.
        Puskas did not have the look of a world-class athlete -- he was short, stocky, barrel-chested and appeared to be overweight. He rarely headed the ball and used only one foot, a lethal left. But he scored 83 goals in 84 international games for Hungary from 1946 to 1956 and 324 goals in 372 games from 1958 to 1967 with Real Madrid.
        In 1960, Puskas scored four goals in the European Cup final as Real Madrid captured its fifth consecutive continental club championship, defeating Eintracht Frankfurt, 7-3, at the Hampden Park stadium in Glasgow. He became a Spanish citizen in 1961 and played four times for his adopted country at the 1962 World Cup in Chile.
        Born in Budapest on April 2, 1927, Puskas played for the Kispest club as a youth. His father was a coach with the club. Its name was changed to Honved after World War II, when it became the team of the Hungarian Army, and Puskas soon acquired the nickname the Galloping Major, a reference to his military rank. He made his professional debut at 16 and played in his first international match against Austria in 1945 at 18.
        As was the case in many Communist nations then, Honved was stacked with the some of the best players in the country, including Sandor Kocsis, Nandor Hidegkuti, Jozef Bosik and Zoltan Czibor. Technically amateurs, they played for the Hungarian team that won the gold medal at the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki, Finland. And they revolutionized the game, adopting a free-flowing style that was refined by the Dutch teams of the 1970s and called total football.
        Puskas led Hungary, the heavy favorite, into the 1954 World Cup in Switzerland, but he was hampered by an ankle injury and Hungary lost to West Germany in the final.
        From May 1950 to February 1956, Hungary won 43 and tied 7 of its 51 international matches.
        Dr. Tomas Fried, who came to know Puskas while serving as a doctor for Honved and then the national team, recalled Puskas as not only as a great player but as a ''family man.''
        ''Whenever we arrived in a city after a long trip, most of the players went to the bar,'' Dr. Fried said in a telephone interview from Toronto, where he now lives. ''But Puskas went to buy dolls for his daughters. One of the rooms in his home in Budapest looked like a toy store.''
        Puskas was with Honved in Spain for a European Cup game in 1956 when Soviet-bloc troops crushed a popular uprising in Hungary. Some of the players, Puskas among them, decided to defect. Dr. Fried, the club's doctor, returned to Hungary but soon hiked over the frontier to freedom in Austria, taking with him his wife and Puskas's, Erzsi, whom Puskas had married in 1950. She survives him, as do a daughter, Aniko, and two granddaughters.
        After he retired in 1966, Puskas had a largely mediocre career as a coach in Spain, the United States, Canada, Paraguay, Greece (he took Panathinaikos to the European Cup final in 1971), Chile and Egypt. In 1993, he coached Hungary for four matches.
        On Nov. 25, 1953, a year after winning the gold medal in Helsinki, Puskas and the Hungarian national team traveled to London to play England, which had never lost to a team from the continent at Wembley Stadium. Before the game, an unidentified, overconfident English player caught sight of the powerful, stocky Puskas and said: ''Look at that little fat chap. We'll murder this lot.''
        The Hungarian team, called the Magical Magyars and the Golden Team, won in a stunning upset, 6-3, as Puskas scored two goals. In a return match months later in Budapest, Hungary again thrashed England, 7-1.
        Puskas spent 25 years in exile in Spain. In 2001, Hungary's national stadium was renamed in his honor.
      