
        Rhodes W. Fairbridge, an early expert on climate change who edited an influential series of encyclopedias covering the earth sciences, died on Nov. 8 in Amagansett, N.Y. He was 92.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.
        Beginning in 1966, Dr. Fairbridge, a geologist at Columbia University, was supervising editor for the Encyclopedia of Earth Sciences, a multivolume series on oceanography, geochemistry, atmospheric sciences and regional geology, among other subjects. He used his experiences as a widely traveled field geologist to help write articles for the series, which was aimed at graduate students and which continues to be used as a reference.
        Michael Rampino, an associate professor of earth and environmental sciences at New York University, praised Dr. Fairbridge's breadth of knowledge, and said that ''he had specialties, but was not a specialist, and looked beyond the classroom, to the rocks, coral reefs and the real situation that lay out in the field.''
        Indeed, Dr. Fairbridge studied reefs and shorelines and the effects of climate change upon them. In the early 1960s, he developed what became known as the Fairbridge curve, which is a record of changes in sea levels over the last 10,000 years. His graph showed periodic dips and spikes in levels, against a larger trend of rising ocean waters.
        Charles W. Finkl, a marine geologist in Boca Raton, Fla., and editor in chief of The Journal of Coastal Research, said the findings were initially challenged, in favor of a graph with fewer fluctuations, but that Dr. Fairbridge's curve has since become broadly accepted.
        The Fairbridge curve, among other indicators, is considered to be early evidence of a larger trend in global climate change resulting in the melting of glaciers and continental ice sheets. In plotting his curve, Dr. Fairbridge looked at high-water marks recorded in fossilized dunes and reefs and later made more eclectic observations of climate fluctuation.
        In 1972, he noted that, in the 13th century, the king of France complained about a glut of English wine released on the European market. Dr. Fairbridge used that to point out that an unusually mild and sunny climate in England must have allowed winemaking there to flourish temporarily.
        Rhodes Whitmore Fairbridge was born in Pinjarra, Australia. He received an undergraduate degree from Queen's University in Ontario and his master's degree from Oxford. In 1941, he earned a doctorate in geology from the University of Western Australia.
        He taught at Western Australia and the University of Illinois before being named a professor of geology at Columbia in 1955. He retired in 1982. He had remained an Australian citizen.
        Dr. Fairbridge is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Dolores Carrington. The couple resided in Manhattan and Amagansett, on Long Island. He is also survived by a son, Kingsley, of Asheville, N.C.; two nieces, Suzan Carrington of Manhattan, and Angela Griffiths of Amagansett; and one grandchild.
      