
        Albert B. Friedman, a noted scholar of medieval literature who reveled in the tabloid journalism of the preliterate Middle Ages -- the popular ballads rife with sex, betrayal, incest and all manner of murder -- died on Nov. 11 in Los Angeles. He was 86 and had lived in Los Angeles for many years.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Aris Janigian, a friend.
        Mr. Friedman's work helped to animate the postwar ''ballad revival'' in the United States, the renewed interest in traditional English and Scottish ballads (and their Appalachian offspring) that reached its apex in the late-1950s and 1960s.
        He was known in particular for ''The Viking Book of Folk Ballads of the English-Speaking World'' (1956), an anthology he edited. It was reissued in 1977 as ''The Penguin Book of Folk Ballads of the English-Speaking World.''
        At his death, Mr. Friedman was emeritus professor of English at Claremont Graduate University, in Claremont, Calif., where he taught from 1960 until his retirement in 1988.
        Trained as a scholar of high-toned literary narrative, Mr. Friedman found himself unable to resist the proletarian bustle of the ballads, sung narratives that were composed and transmitted orally by generations of unlettered bards.
        ''Ballads are songs or performances, not poems,'' Mr. Friedman wrote in his introduction to ''The Viking Book of Folk Ballads.'' ''They are not literature, but illiterature.''
        And gripping illiterature they are. Mothers murder newborns. Girlfriends poison sweethearts. Women are seduced by demons. There is a great deal of sex, and it almost always ends badly, as in ''Lizie Wan,'' in which a brother reacts excessively on learning he has impregnated his sister:
        And he has drawn his gude braid sword,
        That hang down by his knee.
        And he has cutted aff Lizie Wan's head,
        And her fair body in three.
        The great work of ballad classification had been done in the late 19th century by the Harvard scholar Francis James Child, who published his monumental ''English and Scottish Popular Ballads'' in 10 parts between 1882 and 1898. (Comprising more than 300 ballads, Child's compilation is available in five volumes from Dover Publications.)
        For the general reader in the mid-20th century, Mr. Friedman's one-volume collection was an approachable alternative. It contains familiar ballads like ''Barbara Allen'' and lesser-known ones like ''Dick Turpin and the Lawyer,'' the tale of an outlaw. It includes many more American ballads than Child did, among them sea songs and ballads of the frontier.
        Albert Barron Friedman was born in Kansas City, Mo., on Aug. 16, 1920. He earned a bachelor's degree in English from the University of Missouri in 1941, followed by master's and doctoral degrees from Harvard, both of them in English and American literature and language, in 1942 and 1952.
        During World War II, Mr. Friedman served with an Army intelligence unit in Burma. Taken prisoner of war there, he was later awarded the Legion of Merit.
        Mr. Friedman is survived by two sisters, Dorothy Flekier of Kansas City and Evalyne Denenberg of Boynton Beach, Fla.
        His other books include a critical monograph, ''The Ballad Revival: Studies in the Influence of Popular on Sophisticated Poetry'' (University of Chicago, 1961). His ballad collections are out of print.
        As Mr. Friedman readily admitted, no published book could fully capture the lusty vitality of the original ballads. In his introduction to the Viking collection, he made clear the risks inherent in the compiler's art:
        ''Sir Walter Scott thought to flatter an old Scotswoman from whose singing he had taken down a number of ballads by showing her the printed texts of the pieces she had sung to him,'' Mr. Friedman wrote. ''But the old woman was more annoyed than amused. He had spoiled them altogether, she complained. 'They were made for singing and no for reading, but ye hae broken the charm now and they'll never be sung mair. And the warst thing o' a', they're nouther right spell'd, nor right setten down.' ''
      