
        Fereydoun Hoveyda, a former Iranian ambassador to the United Nations during the reign of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi and an expert in Middle Eastern affairs, died Friday at his home in Clifton, Va. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter Roxana Hoveyda.
        Mr. Hoveyda represented Iran at the United Nations from 1971 until 1979, the year that Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini led the revolution that overthrew the shah. As a young diplomat, Mr. Hoveyda participated in preparations for the 1945 San Francisco Conference, which adopted the charter of the United Nations, and two years later he helped draft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
        On April 7, 1979, Mr. Hoveyda's brother, Amir Abbas Hoveyda, a former prime minister under the shah, was executed. One month later, in a letter published in The New York Times, Mr. Hoveyda called it a murder, ''because no other word can be used for the kind of mock justice he was subjected to in the dead of night in front of masked 'judges.' '' His brother was prime minister for 13 years, until August 1977.
        After being forced out of the Iranian Foreign Service, Mr. Hoveyda became a senior fellow at the National Committee on American Foreign Policy. He also wrote more than a dozen books, in English, French and German, including ''The Broken Crescent: The Threat of Militant Islamic Fundamentalism'' and ''What Do the Arabs Want?''
        Mr. Hoveyda was born in Damascus, Syria, on Sept. 21, 1924, the younger son of Habibollah Eynol-Molk Hoveyda, then the Iranian consul general to Syria, and Afsar-ol-Molouk Fatmeh. Mr. Hoveyda earned a Ph.D. in international law and economics at the Sorbonne in Paris.
        Besides his daughter Roxana, of Clifton, Va., he is survived by his wife of 38 years, Gisela, and another daughter, Mandana Hoveyda, of New York City.
        Though he and his brother had served in the shah's government, Mr. Hoveyda was not uncritical. In another book, ''The Fall of the Shah,'' he wrote that ''corruption ran wild at the heart of the royal family'' and that ''the example of the royal family was a source of contamination which infected every level of society.''
      