
        Frank Stanton, a central figure in the development of television broadcasting in the United States and the industry's most articulate and persuasive spokesman during his nearly three decades as president of CBS, died Sunday afternoon at his home in Boston, a longtime friend, Elizabeth Allison, said.
        He was 98 and had been in declining health, she said.
        Dr. Stanton was the right-hand man of William S. Paley, the tycoon who built the Columbia Broadcasting System empire from a handful of struggling radio stations in 1928.
        From 1946 to 1973, they operated as probably the greatest team in the history of broadcasting, making CBS, for a time, the most powerful communications company in the world, and the most prestigious. It was under Dr. Stanton and Mr. Paley that CBS, mixing entertainment programming with high-quality journalism and dashes of high culture, earned its reputation as the Tiffany Network.
        As a brilliant corporate builder and a technologically minded executive, Dr. Stanton -- everybody used the ''doctor'' -- played a pivotal role in CBS's rise. He did so despite a relationship with Mr. Paley that was often strained and an object of puzzlement to those around them.
        In her 1990 biography of Mr. Paley, ''In All His Glory,'' Sally Bedell Smith wrote: ''Temperamentally, the two men were opposites: Paley, the man of boundless charm, superficially warm but essentially heartless and self-absorbed; Stanton, the self-contained Swiss whose business acumen, decency and understated humor endeared him to his colleagues.
        ''Paley had a restless, readily satisfied curiosity while Stanton probed more deeply and was interested in a broader range of subjects,'' Ms. Smith continued. ''Paley acted from the gut; Stanton from the brain. Paley could be disorganized and unpredictable. Stanton was disciplined and systematic.''
        The two men did not socialize. Ms. Smith wrote that Mr. Paley had resented Dr. Stanton's refusal to invite him to his home, calling his associate ''a closed-off, cold man.''
        Dr. Stanton was admired by politicians, businessmen and fellow broadcasters as a principled executive with high aspirations. The industry turned to him to lead their battles against government involvement in radio and television programming.
        During the early days of television, when Mr. Paley clung to the idea that network radio would remain CBS's meal ticket, Dr. Stanton realized that the company's prosperity would rest with television and diversification into areas like the long-playing phonograph, whose growth he guided after its development by Peter Goldmark.
        In 1946, Dr. Stanton began charting CBS's sometimes painful growth as a television network. He was clear about what direction it should take. ''Television, like radio,'' Dr. Stanton said in 1948, ''should be a medium for the majority of Americans, not for any small or special groups; therefore its programming should be largely patterned for what these majority audiences like and want.''
        Frank Nicholas Stanton was born on March 20, 1908, in Muskegon, Mich., the older of two sons of Frank Cooper Stanton, a woodworking and mechanics teacher, and the former Helen Schmidt. After his family moved to Dayton, Ohio, when he was a boy, Frank learned electronics at his father's workbench.
        Young Frank majored in zoology and psychology at Ohio Wesleyan University, graduating in 1930 intending to become a doctor. But finding medical school too expensive, he accepted a scholarship to Ohio State to study psychology and earned a master's degree in 1932. A year earlier, he married Ruth Stephenson, whom he had met at Sunday school when they were both 14.
        While he pursued a doctorate, studying ways to measure radio audiences, he invented a kind of forerunner of the Nielsen audimeter. Dr. Stanton's device could be installed inside a radio receiver to register what programs listeners were tuning in. Paul Kesten, a CBS executive, was so impressed that he offered Mr. Stanton a job in its two-man research department for $55 a week. The day after receiving his doctorate, in 1935, Dr. Stanton and his wife got in their Model A Ford and headed for New York.
        By 1938, Dr. Stanton had become CBS's research director with a staff of 100. With the social scientist Paul F. Lazarsfeld, he invented a device called the program analyzer, which enabled CBS to track the responses of 100 listeners to a radio program, gauging their likes and dislikes. CBS used it for a half-century.
        Dr. Stanton remained with the network during World War II while serving as a consultant to the Secretary of War, the Office of War Information and the Office of Facts and Figures. By 1945 he had become vice president and general manager of CBS. He became president the following year, at age 38, after Mr. Kesten, Mr. Paley's first choice for the job, declined. Mr. Kesten, citing poor health, recommended Dr. Stanton instead, and Mr. Paley invited Dr. Stanton to his Long Island estate. After dinner, they took a walk in the rain. Mr. Paley stunned his guest, saying, ''By the way, Frank, I want you to run the company.'' Mr. Paley said he wanted to be free of the day-to-day problems of running CBS.
        As president, Dr. Stanton reorganized CBS into separate divisions for radio, television and laboratories. Programming was Mr. Paley's domain, though Dr. Stanton was responsible for moving CBS's biggest radio star of the 1940s, Arthur Godfrey, into television and taking a chance on a hard-drinking comic named Jackie Gleason.
        ''I think if there was anything I wanted to do with the company and I proposed it, there was a pretty good chance I could go ahead and do it,'' Ms. Smith quoted Dr. Stanton as saying.
        But one person he could not control was Edward R. Murrow, CBS's most celebrated journalist. Mr. Murrow was close to Mr. Paley and repeatedly went over Dr. Stanton's head to discuss his plans or problems with Mr. Paley. Mr. Murrow regarded Dr. Stanton as a numbers-cruncher who knew little about news, and he tended to blame Dr. Stanton, not Mr. Paley, when management thwarted him.
        When Mr. Murrow's acclaimed weekly program ''See It Now'' began to lose sponsors, Mr. Paley stepped in and cut the program to 8 or 10 broadcasts a year, before taking it off the air in 1958. Mr. Murrow's diminishment seemed to elevate Dr. Stanton's standing as a force at CBS News.
        As network president, Dr. Stanton focused on the news division, creating an executive review board to keep news policy and editorializing separate. He combined the news and public affairs departments, increased the news department's budget and extended the nightly news to 30 minutes from 15 minutes. He also created the weekly investigative and news documentary program ''CBS Reports.''
        In August 1958, the network was plunged into scandal after a contestant on the popular program ''The $64,000 Question'' revealed that he and others had been fed answers. Congressional and law-enforcement investigations were opened. Mounting his own investigation, Dr. Stanton forced the resignation of the executive responsible for the show and canceled the network's remaining quiz shows.
        Dr. Stanton saw diversification as necessary to CBS's growth. The network began acquiring companies, publishing magazines and books, and producing Broadway shows like ''My Fair Lady,'' and it bought the New York Yankees. (The Yankees fared poorly under CBS, which sold the team to investors led by George Steinbrenner.)
        Dr. Stanton oversaw the development of the network's symbol, the CBS Eye, designed by William Golden. And he was chiefly responsible for shepherding its headquarters, the Manhattan skyscraper known as Black Rock, into existence. He chose Eero Saarinen as the architect and fought with Mr. Paley over the austere International-style design, with its black exterior. Mr. Paley wanted the building to be pink.
        In dealing with the government, Dr. Stanton could count on powerful friends, including Harry S. Truman and Lyndon B. Johnson. Yet he and Mr. Paley did not resist the anti-Communist hunts of the late 1940s and early 50s.
        In 1950, to reassure advertisers and pressure groups, Dr. Stanton approved requiring CBS employees to take an oath of loyalty to the United States. The next year, with Mr. Paley's approval, Dr. Stanton created a security office staffed by former F.B.I. agents to investigate the political leanings of employees. Writers, directors and others were blacklisted. Years later, in 1999, upon receiving an award for his efforts on behalf of the First Amendment, Dr. Stanton conceded that the network's response to pressure might not have been the best one.
        ''I didn't have the wisdom, nor did anyone else,'' Mr. Stanton said. ''The head of the law department was one of the fairest people I've ever known. When he said this was the course we should follow, we went along with it.''
        With the 1960 presidential election approaching, Dr. Stanton persuaded Congress to suspend the ''equal time'' provision in the Communications Act, making it possible to televise debates between the Democratic nominee, Senator John F. Kennedy, and his Republican rival, Vice President Richard M. Nixon, without including candidates of smaller parties. Those debates signaled the arrival of television as a dominant force in presidential politics.
        Dr. Stanton bore much of the criticism when Washington objected to CBS News's coverage of the war in Vietnam, and was threatened with jail in 1971. CBS had broadcast an hourlong investigative report called ''The Selling of the Pentagon,'' about a $30 million campaign by the Defense Department to improve its image, and the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee demanded that he turn over material cut from the program. When he refused to comply, he was called before the committee.
        He said the order amounted to an infringement of free speech and freedom of the press under the First Amendment. ''If newsmen are told their notes, films and tapes will be subject to compulsory process so that the government can determine whether the news has been satisfactorily edited,'' he said, ''the scope, nature and vigor of their news reporting will be inevitably curtailed.''
        The committee voted to cite him for contempt. But after an emotional debate, the full House rejected the committee's citation.
        When the Nixon administration began attacking the networks over their war coverage, it was often Dr. Stanton who answered. ''Stanton was a firewall between the presidency and the reporters covering the White House,'' said Robert Pierpoint, a former CBS White House correspondent.
        For years, Dr. Stanton believed he would get the top job at CBS -- chairman and chief executive -- when Mr. Paley reached age 65 in 1966. Mr. Paley had promised him the job, after all. Dr. Stanton was so certain that he rejected an opportunity to become head of the University of California and turned down President Johnson's offers to make him secretary of health, education and welfare or under secretary of state.
        But Mr. Paley continued as chairman past his retirement age, and the relationship between the two men was never the same. In 1967, Dr. Stanton signed a new contract, which required him to step down as president in 1971 to become vice chairman and to remain in the post until his retirement at 65 in 1973.
        After leaving that position, Dr. Stanton was chairman and chief operating officer of the American Red Cross for six years. He served on the boards of the Rockefeller Foundation, the Carnegie Institution, the Stanford Research Institute and Lincoln Center. He was also the first non-Harvard graduate in the 20th century to serve on the Harvard board, and he spent much of the rest of his life in Cambridge, Mass., working on university projects. He sat on the CBS board until 1978, then became a consultant until 1987, though he was seldom called on to consult.
        For all his accomplishments at CBS, Dr. Stanton had left the network in disillusion, disappointment and sorrow, assessing it as ''just another company with dirty carpets.''
        When he retired in 1973, he left Black Rock quietly, refusing to allow Mr. Paley to give him a party. His parting words were quoted by Lillian Ross in The New Yorker: ''I think I'll make it home in time for the 7 o'clock news.''
        Dr. Stanton's wife, Ruth, died in 1992. Mrs. Allison, who with her husband, Graham, helped care for Dr. Stanton in recent years, said that there were no survivors.
        She said that Dr. Stanton had directed that there be no memorial service and no donations in his memory, which she said reminded her of his attitude upon his departure from CBS.
        ''When he left, he just left,'' Mrs. Allison said. ''He was consistent, right to the end.''
        Correction:  January 25, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 26 about Frank Stanton, the former president of CBS, overstated his role in efforts to persuade Congress to suspend an ''equal time'' law so that the 1960 presidential debates between John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon could be broadcast. Spokesmen for NBC and ABC testified in support of Mr. Stanton's effort; Mr. Stanton alone did not persuade Congress to suspend the provision.
      