
        Edwin David Edwards, whose accusations of improper currency transactions at Citibank mired it in scandal, died Dec. 21 at a hospice care center near his home in Wichita Falls, Tex. He was 62.
        The cause was cancer, his brother, Mark Edwards said.
        Mr. Edwards, known as David, was the Citibank employee at the center of the so-called Edwards Affair in the late 1970s to early 1980s that raised questions about the bank's foreign exchange trading practices and eventually entangled the company under the watch of its chairman, Walter Wriston.
        In 1975, Mr. Edwards, then a junior executive, accused a senior trader of taking kickbacks and suggested that Citibank was improperly shifting, or ''parking,'' profits from European currency transactions to countries like the Bahamas where they would be taxed at lower rates. He also accused Citibank of booking false transactions through its Bahamas branch.
        Though Citibank brushed off his concerns and eventually fired Mr. Edwards, his suspicions triggered eight years of investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Congress and six European regulators. The S.E.C. ultimately declined to take action, and other investigations cleared the trader of the kickback charges and caused Citibank to pay back taxes and minor fines.
        But the author, Phillip L. Zweig, noted in his 1995 biography of Mr. Wriston that the episode was the wake-up call or more accurately, the bomb blast, that signaled that the bank's size had far outpaced its ability to manage itself.
        In his 30 years as an international banker, Mr. Edwards was known as much for his expertise in operating in global markets as for his diverse set of friends. During his career, he developed close relationships with central bankers in North Africa as well as Saudi government officials and merchant families.
        His circle of friends included authors, restaurateurs, professors and even a future president. As a banker in London, he met a young Bill Clinton who was studying at the University of Oxford at one of the gatherings Mr. Edwards held at his London apartment.
        Mr. Clinton became a frequent houseguest and a close friend for nearly 40 years.
        Mr. Edwards was born in Wichita Falls, on Aug. 23, 1944, and after attending the University of Texas and Midwestern University in Wichita Falls, he studied at the London School of Economics. He began his Citibank career in the early 1970s.
        In 1986, he initiated an international banking group for Stephens Inc., an investment bank based in Little Rock, Ark.; and in 1990, he and his brother, Mark, founded Edwards Brothers, an investment placement firm. His ties to Saudi officials helped establish a Middle Eastern Studies Center at the University of Arkansas.
        Mr. Edwards is survived by his mother, Katherine Edwards of Wichita Falls; his brother, Robert, of Los Angeles; his sister, Katherine McGregor of Wichita Falls; and his brother Mark, of Wichita Falls.
        Correction:  January 13, 2007, Saturday  An obituary on Dec. 29 about Edwin Edwards, the banker who helped bring a currency trading scandal at Citibank to light, gave an erroneous name in some copies for the investment bank for which he later worked. It was Stephens Inc., not Stephen Inc.
      