
        John Bishop, a playwright, screenwriter and longtime member of Circle Repertory Company in New York, died on Dec. 20 in Bad Heilbrunn, Germany. He was 77 and lived in Encino, Calif.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lisa Maurer Bishop.
        ''The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940,'' a backstage comedy-thriller that Mr. Bishop wrote and directed and that was produced on Broadway in 1987, may be his most widely produced play. But as resident playwright for the Circle Rep, a hothouse of theatrical talent that closed in 1996, Mr. Bishop was known for straight-talking ruminations on masculinity and decline, including ''Borderlines,'' ''The Great Grandson of Jedediah Kohler'' and ''Confluence.''
        The first play he wrote, and the one that attracted the attention of the Circle Rep, was ''The Trip Back Down,'' which starred John Cullum as a failed stock-car racer who returns to the family he abandoned for his career; Mr. Bishop's uncle was a stock-car racer. The play was produced Off Off Broadway at the T. Schreiber Studio in 1975, and after receiving good reviews, transferred to Broadway.
        Before Mr. Bishop was a writer, he was a director, and while at the Circle Rep the plays he directed included Rafael Lima's ''El Salvador'' and Joe Pintauro's ''Beside Herself.''
        In 1989 Mr. Bishop's screenplay ''The Package'' was made into a movie starring Gene Hackman and Tommy Lee Jones. He spent much of the 1990s rewriting scripts for Paramount studios; he also was the co-author of the screenplay for the 1994 movie ''Drop Zone.''
        John Dickson Bishop was born on May 3, 1929, in Mansfield, Ohio, the son of a factory foreman and a music teacher. After graduating from Carnegie Mellon University he began his theatrical career as an actor at the Cleveland Play House.
        He made his New York directing debut in 1964 with a musical based on ''Little Women,'' and spent the next few years directing industrials -- live presentations for companies -- and shows for a Dallas musical festival.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Bishop is survived by his sons Michael, Matthew and Christopher and by two grandchildren.
        A lifelong softball player, Mr. Bishop also wrote the script for the multimedia presentation ''The Baseball Experience,'' now playing at the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, N.Y.
      