
        Kyoko Kishida, who starred in the landmark film ''Woman in the Dunes'' as a young widow consigned to a life of isolation and Sisyphean labor at the bottom of a sand pit, died on Dec. 17 in Tokyo. She was 76.
        The cause was a brain tumor, a theater company she belonged to told Japanese newspapers.
        Directed by Hiroshi Teshigahara and released in 1964, ''Woman in the Dunes'' is a bleak allegory in the fashion of films by Ingmar Bergman and Michelangelo Antonioni. Ms. Kishida's nameless character is trapped in a pit on a desolate shore, her sole occupation harvesting sand for the villagers who hold her. Resigned to her fate, she is joined by an entomologist who is tricked into captivity and must learn to accept the hopelessness and crushing boredom of his existence.
        Beautifully filmed, with an eroticism unusual for its time, ''Woman in the Dunes'' appeared in the second New York Film Festival and won a special jury prize at the Cannes Film Festival.
        ''Women in the Dunes'' was hardly Ms. Kishida's first avant-garde experience. Her father, Kunio Kishida, was an important prewar playwright who helped develop modern Japanese theater. An admirer of Ibsen and Chekhov, he wrote about Japanese characters afflicted with feelings of dislocation and disintegration.
        While Ms. Kishida appeared in other films, including Mr. Teshigahara's ''Rikyu,'' she was best known in Japan for her voice-over work in animated films and television cartoons, including the long-running series ''Moomin.''
        Born in 1930 in Tokyo, she was married to the actor Noboru Nakaya from 1954 until their divorce in 1978. The couple had one child. Japanese newspapers mentioned no survivors.
        A hard-working actress who appeared in films until early this year, Ms. Kishida was nonetheless a devoted sleeper, according to an obituary in Asahi Shimbun, the Japanese newspaper.
        ''At school, I think I slept through more than half my classes,'' she wrote in her memoir, ''Those Times, These Times.'' When she wrote haiku, she used the pen name Minjo, which means ''sleeping woman.''
      