
        Herman Klurfeld, a ghostwriter for the legendary columnist Walter Winchell for almost three decades, died last Monday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he had lived for many years. He was 90.
        The cause was a heart arrhythmia, said his son, James.
        Mr. Klurfeld started writing up to four newspaper columns a week for Winchell in 1936 and worked for him for 29 years. He also wrote many of the signature one-liners, called ''lasties,'' that Mr. Winchell used at the end of his Sunday evening radio broadcasts. ''She's been on more laps than a napkin,'' was one of Mr. Klurfeld's favorites.
        Winchell's columns spilled celebrity secrets with a jaunty, telegraphic style full of slang and incomplete sentences. At their peak, the syndicated columns appeared in 2,000 newspapers across the country.
        Mr. Klurfeld was born in the Bronx and wanted to be an accountant but started writing jokes as a teenager when he was bedridden with pneumonia. Mr. Winchell, at The Daily Mirror, discovered him after Leonard Lyons, a New York Post columnist, published one of his gags.
        In 1952, The Post revealed Mr. Klurfeld as Mr. Winchell's ghostwriter. But Mr. Klurfeld was never bitter about not having gotten credit for the work, said his son, the editorial page editor at Newsday, on Long Island.
        Mr. Klurfeld is also survived by a daughter, Elaine Berkowitz of Key Biscayne, Fla., four grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
        Mr. Winchell's power and popularity had faded by the 1960s. Mr. Klurfeld went on to write books, including ''Behind the Lines: The World of Drew Pearson'' and ''Winchell, His Life and Times.'' HBO made the film ''Winchell'' in 1998 starring Stanley Tucci as the columnist and Paul Giamatti as Mr. Klurfeld.
        Correction:  December 28, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Herman Klurfeld, a ghostwriter for the gossip columnist Walter Winchell, referred incorrectly in some copies to the year that the movie ''Winchell'' was released. It was 1998, not 1980.
      