
        Henry M. Beachell, a plant breeder whose cultivation of a remarkably fecund new rice plant led to greatly increased yields of the crop in developing countries of Asia, died on Dec. 13 at his home in Pearland, Tex. He was 100.
        Mr. Beachell's death was confirmed by the International Rice Research Institute in Los Baños, the Philippines.
        While working for the institute in the 1960s, Mr. Beachell and others crossed rice plants from Taiwan and Indonesia to produce a new variety, which they named IR8. The resulting plant was shorter and sturdier than its progenitors, less prone to damage during harvest and quicker to cultivate. The gain for subsistence farmers was a significantly larger annual yield of rice, often amounting to two or three times that of other plants.
        Edward C. A. Runge, emeritus professor of production agronomy at Texas A&M University, said that IR8 helped to feed the population in the Philippines and other countries and ''remains among the highest-yielding rice varieties.''
        Dr. Runge praised Mr. Beachell's ''intuitive vision'' and added: ''Today, India, Pakistan, Korea and China feed themselves because of the increased rice yield from better plants. It wasn't always so.''
        Earlier in his career, from 1931 to 1963, Mr. Beachell developed long-grained rice varieties for the United States Department of Agriculture. He later conducted field research in Indonesia and joined scientists at Cornell University in helping to create a seed bank for preserving rice varieties.
        Henry Monroe Beachell was born in Waverly, Neb., on Sept. 21, 1906. As an undergraduate, he studied agronomy at the University of Nebraska and earned a master's degree in plant breeding and genetics from Kansas State University in 1934.
        For his advancements in agriculture, he received the Japan Prize from the Science and Technology Foundation of Japan in 1987. In 1996, he was awarded a World Food Prize with another plant breeder, Gurdev Singh Khush, for research on rice.
        A twist of fate brought Mr. Beachell, the son of a wheat-farming family, to experiment with rice. After leaving graduate school, he had expected to work with wheat, but could not find a research position. With no other prospect, he opted to study rice.
      