
        Andrew Spielman, an entomologist at Harvard whose studies of mosquitoes, ticks and other insects shed light on the diseases that parasites carry to humans, most notably malaria, the West Nile virus and Lyme disease, died on Wednesday in Boston. He was 76.
        His family confirmed the death.
        Based on research on Nantucket in the 1970s, Dr. Spielman's observations of deer ticks proved valuable in understanding the transmission of Lyme disease, which was in the early stages of its diagnosis. He had been studying another potentially fatal parasitic illness, babesiosis, which deer ticks carry.
        Dr. Spielman suggested that reducing deer populations would lead to a decline in the disease. The strategy is now widely applied to prevent the spread of Lyme, which deer ticks also transmit.
        Earlier, he investigated the mosquito's role in transmitting malaria and dengue. He was interested in how environmental disturbances brought about by agriculture and other activities encouraged outbreaks of the sicknesses in Africa and saw the mosquito as a potential carrier for other diseases, including Rift Valley virus.
        He explored the subject in a book written with Michael D'Antonio, ''Mosquito: A Natural History of Our Most Persistent and Deadly Foe'' (2001). Durland Fish, an entomologist and a professor of epidemiology at Yale, said the book was ''required reading, as an excellent overview of how mosquitoes have influenced, and continue to influence, humanity.''
        In the '90s, Dr. Spielman continued working on Lyme disease and helped supervise a vaccine trial. The vaccine, Lymerix, developed by SmithKline Beecham, was tested on volunteers on Block Island, R.I., and at other tick-infested sites. It was intended to kill ticks after they had attached themselves and drawn blood.
        A collaborator on the trial, Dr. Peter J. Krause, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Connecticut, said the vaccine proved to be effective, although it became entangled in lawsuits and was withdrawn. Andrew Spielman was born in Brooklyn. He earned a doctorate in pathobiology from Johns Hopkins in 1956.
        After working on mosquito control for the Navy, he joined Harvard as an instructor in 1959. He became a professor of tropical public health in the department of immunology and infectious diseases. He was also director of the malaria epidemiology program at the Harvard Center for International Development.
        Surviving is his wife of 51 years, the former Judith Miller. The couple lived in Needham, Mass., and Grafton, N.H.
        Also surviving are a son, David, of Sudbury, Mass.; two daughters, Deborah, of Newton, Mass., and Sue, of Belmont, Mass; a brother, Herbert, of Long Beach, N.Y.; and by seven grandchildren.
      