
        Frank Tremaine, a retired senior vice president at United Press International who as a young reporter filed what is believed to have been the first eyewitness account of the bombing of Pearl Harbor, died in Savannah, Ga., on Dec. 7, the 65th anniversary of the attack. He was 92.
        The cause was a long pulmonary illness, his daughter, Nancy Tremaine, said. News of Mr. Tremaine's death was made public only recently.
        At the time of the attack, Mr. Tremaine was based in Honolulu as the Pacific bureau manager of United Press, a forerunner of U.P.I. On the morning of Sunday, Dec. 7, 1941, he was awakened by explosions and anti-aircraft fire. From the window of his bungalow, he saw black smoke rising from Pearl Harbor, seven or eight miles away.
        Mr. Tremaine made several hurried phone calls to military officials before sending a cable to the United Press offices in San Francisco and Manila: ''Flash -- Pearl Harbor under aerial attack. Tremaine.'' Only then did he get dressed. While he was out reporting the story, his wife, Kay, relayed his notes, along with her own eyewitness account, by phone to the San Francisco office.
        United Press would describe Mr. Tremaine's dispatch as the first account of the attack by a correspondent. He was scooped, however, by the official announcement from the White House, transmitted a few minutes earlier.
        Frank Benjamin Tremaine was born in Detroit on May 30, 1914, and reared in Pasadena, Calif. In 1936, he earned a bachelor's degree from Stanford, where he was the U.P. campus correspondent, and shortly afterward joined the news agency's Salt Lake City bureau.
        After the United States entered the war, Mr. Tremaine oversaw U.P.'s coverage of the Pacific theater. In 1945, he reported on the Japanese surrender aboard the battleship Missouri and afterward was the agency's first postwar Tokyo bureau manager. From Tokyo, he later directed the agency's early coverage of the Korean War. His other postings included Mexico, Central America and Los Angeles.
        In 1952, Mr. Tremaine returned to New York, where he held various executive posts with U.P. Named a senior vice president in 1972, he retired in 1980.
        Besides his daughter, of Savannah, Mr. Tremaine is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Newland, whom he married in 1939; and a son, Frank G., known as Pancho, of Norwalk, Conn.
        With his wife, Mr. Tremaine wrote a memoir, ''The Attack on Pearl Harbor: By Two Who Were There,'' published in 1997 by the Admiral Nimitz Foundation.
      