
       Melanie Kahane, an interior designer whose bold use of color created a new look for homes, died of lung cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. Miss Kahane, the widow of Ben Grauer, a broadcaster for NBC News, caught the public's eye in 1946, when she designed one of the first colored kitchen appliances, a shiny red stove.
        Melanie Kahane, an interior designer whose bold use of color created a new look for homes, died of lung cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. Miss Kahane, the widow of Ben Grauer, a broadcaster for NBC News, caught the public's eye in 1946, when she designed one of the first colored kitchen appliances, a shiny red stove. In 1949, her design for a black-and-white French provincial bedroom accented with pumpkin-colored furniture became one of the most photographed interiors in magazines and books.
        ''She was a great inspiration when I was a student in the 50's,'' said Mario Buatta, an interior designer in Manhattan. ''I remember rooms in pink and orange. It was very distinctive. Her work had guts.''
        Miss Kahane (pronounced ka-HAIN) was born in Manhattan. She graduated from the Parsons School of Design and worked as an illustrator of women's clothing. In 1939, she went into business as an interior designer. 'The Ability to Visualize'
        She designed light bulbs, hotels, studio apartments and theaters. A client, Anne Windfohr Marion, is the second generation of her family to be a client. ''She did mother's house when I was 15,'' said Mrs. Marion, whose husband, John, is chairman of Sotheby's North America. ''She was very easy to work with, a vital, energetic person.''
        Miss Kahane had the ability to charm clients while sticking firmly to her finely honed esthetic of glamour and tasteful pizzazz. ''The decorator has the ability to visualize a finished room before it is begun,'' she said, ''and the strength of character not to deviate from a plan, no matter what the opinion of loving friends and relatives.''
        After she married, Miss Kahane transformed her dining room into a library for Mr. Grauer's book collection. Then she moved the dining table back in, creating another much-photographed interior. The couple appeared together on an NBC Radio program, ''Decorating Wavelengths,'' which offered news and advice.
        Miss Kahane produced a television documentary on contemporary Scandinavian design. She was on the design committee for the United States Pavilion at the 1958 World's Fair in Brussels. In 1959, Miss Kahane traveled to the Soviet Union for NBC to record women's views. Under the aegis of the State Department, she conducted symposiums on textiles in Southeast Asian countries. Book for Children
        Miss Kahane was a fellow and former treasurer of the American Institute of Interior Designers, a former president of the Decorators Club and an honorary life member of the American Society of Interior Designers.
        She wrote a book for children, ''There's a Decorator in Your Doll House,'' published by Atheneum in 1968. In 1985, she was inducted into the Interior Design Hall of Fame.
        Miss Kahane had a wit that was often as sharp as her clothing. In an interview in which she revealed that much of the art in her home had been bought by her husband without consultation, she observed, ''When a man's wife is a decorator, he frequently gets the compulsion to assert himself.''
        Her recipe for a happy marriage included two sinks in the bathroom. ''A great meeting place,'' she noted.
        Surviving are her daughter, Joan Ebenstein Porter of Pipersville, Pa., and two grandchildren. A memorial will be held Jan. 19 at 10:30 A.M. at the David M. Schwartz Center at Parsons, 560 Seventh Avenue at 40th Street.
      