
       Alice Boney, a prominent dealer in Oriental art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at her Manhattan apartment. She was 87 years old.
        Alice Boney, a prominent dealer in Oriental art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at her Manhattan apartment. She was 87 years old.
        Miss Boney was self-taught, yet rose to become an adviser on Chinese and Japanese art to collectors and museums. ''The doyenne of Oriental art,'' a Hong Kong magazine, Orientations, called her in an article to appear later this month.
        ''In the 65 years of her career, she did what few women in the world dared to do,'' the article said. ''She entered the male-dominated world of Oriental art and she prospered.''
        Born in Philadelphia, Miss Boney inherited a trust fund from her grandfather. She moved to New York, where she met Ian Kleykamp, a Dutch art dealer. They married and opened a gallery on Fifth Avenue.
        They brought a shipload of Chinese tomb sculptures from the Tang Dynasty (618 to 906 A.D.) to New York and mounted an exhibition of the art. In 1926, they exhibited contemporary Japanese paintings, then rarely seen in the United States. Helped Build Hoover's Collection
        During the Depression, the gallery closed and Miss Boney divorced. She went into business for herself, selling art to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Freer Gallery in Washington.
        Miss Boney was instrumental in building President Herbert H. Hoover's porcelain collection of Ming Dynasty (1368 to 1644 A.D.) and Manchu Dynasty (1644 to 1912 A.D.) objects.
        During the 1940's and 1950's, she helped to organize exhibitions of art and furniture at the China Institute and elsewhere. ''She introduced leading Japanese artists and potters to America,'' said Amy Poster, the acting director of the Asian art department at the Brooklyn Museum. In 1958 Miss Boney went to Japan for six months and stayed for 16 years, returning annually to the United States to sell art.
        ''She was the preeminent dealer in her field of Asian art and particularly Japanese art,'' Ms. Poster noted. ''She taught a younger generation of dealers, collectors and museum professionals a great deal about an esthetic that she understood very well.''
        When Miss Boney returned to New York in 1974, she worked from her Park Avenue apartment. She greeted visitors dressed in a green silk robe and matching antique jade jewelry. The robe, a Japanese yukata, which is less formal than a kimono, was given to her by a sumo wrestler.
        There are no survivors.
      