
       Nikolaas Tinbergen, a Dutch-born British zoologist who won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1973, died after suffering a stroke at his home here Wednesday. He was 81 years old.
        Nikolaas Tinbergen, a Dutch-born British zoologist who won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1973, died after suffering a stroke at his home here Wednesday. He was 81 years old.
        He shared the 1973 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine with Konrad Lorenz, a German zoologist, and Karl von Frisch, an Austrian zoologist, for their ''discoveries in the field of the organization and occurrence of individual and social behavioral patterns'' in the animal world.
        The 1973 prize was a departure for the Nobel committee; it acknowledged for the first time major advances in man's understanding of sociobiology.
        ''At one stroke, they explained some of the most remarkable examples of the fine control of elaborate patterns of behavior by external stimuli known to science, sometimes learned, sometimes not, while leaving in no doubt the crucial importance of genetic differences in understanding the development of behavior,'' the British magazine Science said of the award to the three laureates.
        Born in The Hague in 1907, Mr. Tinbergen studied at universities in Vienna, in Leiden in the Netherlands and at Yale University.
        He gained prominence in the late 1930's as one of the founders of ethology, the branch of biology that studies animal behavior. In World War II, he was detained by the occupying German forces at a camp in the Netherlands.
        After the war, he worked with Mr. Lorenz and was appointed professor of experimental zoology at Leiden University in 1947.
        Two years later, he became an ethology lecturer at Oxford University, where he wrote ''The Study of Instinct,'' considered the first handbook on ethology ever published. He was a professor in animal behavior at Oxford from 1966 to 1974, and a professor emeritus there until his death. He became a British citizen in 1955.
        Mr. Tinbergen was a prolific writer and an accomplished maker of nature films.
        In 1969 Mr. Tinbergen's elder brother, Jan, won the first Nobel Prize in Economics.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Elizabeth, two sons and three daughters.
      