
       William E. Potter, an engineer who was a governor of the Panama Canal Zone and a builder of Walt Disney World, died of heart failure Monday at the Orlando (Fla.) Regional Medical Center. He was 83 years old and lived in Orlando.
        William E. Potter, an engineer who was a governor of the Panama Canal Zone and a builder of Walt Disney World, died of heart failure Monday at the Orlando (Fla.) Regional Medical Center. He was 83 years old and lived in Orlando.
        Mr. Potter's tenure as Governor of the Canal Zone from 1956 to 1960 capped a 38-year career in the Army Corps of Engineers. In World War II, he helped in planning the American invasion of Normandy in 1944 as an engineering officer at the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Powers in Europe. He was then involved with moving men and supplies in Western Europe, an operation that was nicknamed the Red Ball Express.
        After the war, Mr. Potter supervised for the Corps of Engineers a $100 million project to control the Missouri River, and the construction of military installations in Alaska. He then was assistant chief of engineers for civil works for the Army in Washington. Official of World's Fair
        He retired from the Army with the rank of major general shortly after ending his tenure as the Canal Zone's Governor in 1960.
        Mr. Potter then became executive vice president of the 1964 New York World's Fair, working under Robert Moses. In that job, Mr. Potter met Walt Disney and joined the Disney organization in 1965 as vice president of Walt Disney Productions for Florida Planning, where he oversaw construction of the water, sewer and power systems for Disney World. He retired in 1974.
        Mr. Potter was a former member of the Greater Orlando Airport Authority, a former member of the board of the Orlando Regional Medical Center Foundation and a former member of the Governor's Management Advisory Commission.
        Surviving are his wife, Ruth, two daughters, Jo Ann Hipp of Orlando and Suzan Schull of Honolulu, and six grandchildren.
      