
       Richard Castellano, a character actor noted for his portrayals of Italian-Americans, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in North Bergen, N.J.. He was 55 years old.
        Richard Castellano, a character actor noted for his portrayals of Italian-Americans, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in North Bergen, N.J.. He was 55 years old.
        Mr. Castellano won wide praise for his performance as a Mafioso, Clemenza, in Francis Coppola's 1972 film, ''The Godfather.'' Earlier, he was nominated for Tony and Academy Awards for his performances in the stage and film comedy ''Lovers and Other Strangers'' by Renee Taylor and Joseph Bologna.
        Reviewing ''Lovers'' in The New York Times in August 1970, Roger Greenspun offered this conclusion: ''My greatest pleasure is in Richard Castellano, who plays the bridegroom's father, a lower-middle-class Italian, with superb, befuddled, heavy-set delicacy and solemn good humor - and who, for all his retiring modesty, very nearly steals the film.'' In 'A View From the Bridge'
        Off Broadway, Mr. Castellano gave 643 performances as the protagonist, a frustrated dock worker, in Arthur Miller's ''View From the Bridge,'' which opened in 1965. Among his Broadway credits were ''The Investigation'' in 1966 and his film appearances included ''A Fine Madness'' in 1966 and ''Night of the Juggler'' in 1979.
        On television, Mr. Castellano was the main character, Joe Girelli, in the 1972 situation comedy ''The Super'' and he was Joe Vitale, a factory worker, in the 1975-76 sitcom ''Joe and Sons,'' playing a single parent raising two boys with occasional help from a neighboring cocktail waitress. In television drama, he was Giuseppe (Joe the Boss) Masseria in the 1981 series ''The Gangster Chronicles,'' which was about the Prohibition era.
        The actor specialized in playing overweight characters, but his wife, Ardell Sheridan, an actress, said yesterday that his normal weight was barely 200 pounds, and that producers invariably insisted that he gain at least 50 pounds for roles. She played the role of his wife in ''The Super.''
        Mr. Castellano was born in the Bronx on Sept. 4, 1933, attended public schools in Manhattan and took courses at Columbia College. He ran a construction company in New Jersey until 1961, when he began studying Method acting with Brett Warren at the Ansonia Hotel in Manhattan and started performing in Mr. Warren's touring company, which staged plays for the elderly and physically handicapped.
        His survivors, besides his wife, are a daughter, Margaret Moller of Belleville, Ill., and a sister, Diann Zecca of East Hanover, N.J.
      