
       Dr. Carl J. Johnson, a public health official who attacked the Federal Government over the potentially dangerous effects of nuclear weapons testing, died of complications from heart surgery yesterday at Lutheran Memorial Hospital in Lakewood, Colo. He was 59 years old and lived in Lakewood.
        Dr. Carl J. Johnson, a public health official who attacked the Federal Government over the potentially dangerous effects of nuclear weapons testing, died of complications from heart surgery yesterday at Lutheran Memorial Hospital in Lakewood, Colo. He was 59 years old and lived in Lakewood.
        Dr. Johnson, an epidemiologist and radiation specialist, was the public health director in Jefferson County, Colo., the site of the Government's Rocky Flats Plant, from 1973 to 1981. Rocky Flats, 16 miles northwest of Denver, shapes plutonium into triggers for thermonuclear weapons. The plant opened in 1953.
        Dr. Johnson was an early critic of the way the Government ran its weapons plants, concluding that they presented substantial health risks to the public and to workers. Backed by Medical Journal
        In 1984 Dr. Johnson's views attained considerable credibility after after The Journal of the American Medical Association published his study, ''Cancer Incidents in an Area of Radioactive Fallout Downwind from the Nevada Test Site.'' At that time, The Journal's editor said that because of the study's sensitivity, he had subjected it to several reviews before printing it.
        Dr. Johnson published the study while he was a consultant at the Medical Care and Research Foundation in Denver, which had gathered the data for use in a lawsuit brought against the Government by 1,200 residents of southern Utah and the surrounding region. The suit eventually failed.
        The study found that radioactive fallout from nuclear bomb tests in Nevada caused an excess of cancer among Mormons in southern Utah. Previously, Dr. Johnson said, leukemia deaths among children in Jefferson County increased to twice the national rate from 1957 to 1962. Opposed Rocky Flats Housing
        In 1974 Dr. Johnson opposed housing developments in farmland adjacent to Rocky Flats because of heavy concentration of plutonium there.
        He said that in 1975 and 1976 his staff found 44 times more plutonium in soil near the plant than had been reported by the Government. Concentrations in the air and in drinking water were also found to be high. The plant has since ceased most of its operations.
        Carl Johnson, born in Sims, Ind., graduated from Michigan State University and the Ohio State University College of Medicine. He had a master's degree in public health from the University of California at Berkeley.
        He was an associate professor of pathology at the Cornell University School of Veterinary Medicine and a district health officer of the Seattle-King County Health Department. From 1985 to 1988, he served as medical officer in the South Dakota Department of Health.
        Surviving are his wife, Kathryn; three sons, Frederick, of Denver, Kendrick, of Golden, Colo., and Peter, of Fremont, Calif.; a sister, Sarah Mort, of Lafayette, Ind., and two brothers, George, of San Francisco, and Gary, of Miami, Fla.
      