
       Morris J. Stein, a former New York City Councilman and Civil Court judge, died of cardiac arrest Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 83 years old. Mr. Stein, who kept homes in Pompano Beach, Fla., and Rockaway, N.J., served on the City Council from 1949 to 1969 and was the chairman of the General Welfare and Ethics Committees.
        Morris J. Stein, a former New York City Councilman and Civil Court judge, died of cardiac arrest Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 83 years old. Mr. Stein, who kept homes in Pompano Beach, Fla., and Rockaway, N.J., served on the City Council from 1949 to 1969 and was the chairman of the General Welfare and Ethics Committees. He was elected to a judgeship on the New York City Civil Court in 1968 and held that position until his retirement in December 1978.
        Mr. Stein's City Council career was highlighted by his role in helping to draft a comprehensive code of ethics for New York City officials and employees in 1959.
        A Brooklyn Democrat who was known for his modest and mild-mannered demeanor, he attracted attention in 1964 when he loudly criticized Mayor Robert F. Wagner and City Council President Paul R. Screvane for selecting City Councilman David Ross of the Bronx as the Council's vice chairman and majority leader. Mr. Stein aspired to both positions.
        Mr. Stein, who began his political career by helping to establish the James M. Power Democratic Club and later served as president of the Kings Highway Democratic Club, graduated from Brooklyn Law School and was admitted to practice law in New York in 1927.
        As a civic leader, Mr. Stein helped raise funds for the construction of the Coney Island Hospital and was president of its community advisory board. He was also a trustee of the Associated YM-YWHA's of Greater New York.
        Mr. Stein is survived by his wife, the former Ella Katz; two daughters, Susan Felsher of Israel and Janet Romero of New Mexico; a sister, Marian Cohen; a brother, William, and five grandchildren.
      