
       Faber Birren, a color consultant who read and analyzed tastes in the hues deemed most suitable for one's surroundings, died yesterday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital, a week after suffering a stroke. He was 88 years old and lived in Stamford.
        Faber Birren, a color consultant who read and analyzed tastes in the hues deemed most suitable for one's surroundings, died yesterday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital, a week after suffering a stroke. He was 88 years old and lived in Stamford.
        Mr. Birren trained at the Chicago Art Institute, planning to emulate his father, Joseph, a landscape painter born in Luxembourg. Conceding that he fell short on artistic talent, he became an industrial color consultant. By the 1950's, he was widely recognized as the country's foremost authority in that field.
        Mr. Birren set up shop in his native Chicago in 1929. He soon moved to New York, where his business flourished.
        Steering clear of the garment trade, his office at 500 Fifth Avenue kept constant sales records on color trends in paints, wallpapers, textiles, plastics, home furnishings and the like. He advised factories on color schemes to enhance productivity, morale and safety, with orange paint alerting people to hazards.
        He was consulted by the Army, Navy and hospitals. His clients included General Motors, Monsanto and Du Pont. The author of hundreds of articles and books, he traveled overseas to study and write about color and its applications for people and psychology.
        Mr. Birren firmly believed in the therapeutic effects of bright colors on the mentally troubled. He also stressed that taste in colors, although occurring in fashionable cycles, was highly personal, with no two people responding the same way.
        Survivors include his wife, Wanda; two daughters, Zoe Kirby of New Canaan, Conn., and Fay Koedel of Warren, Pa., and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held next Saturday at 2 P.M. at the Unitarian Universalist Church in Stamford.
      