
       Judge Paul P. Rao Sr., an associate judge of the United States Court of International Trade, died of a heart attack Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Judge Paul P. Rao Sr., an associate judge of the United States Court of International Trade, died of a heart attack Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Judge Rao (pronounced RAY-oh) was appointed to a lifetime position on the Federal bench in the United States Customs Court by President Harry S. Truman in 1948 after having served for seven years as an assistant United States Attorney in charge of the Customs Division.
        In 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him the Chief Judge of the Customs Court, whose name was changed in 1980 to the United States Court of International Trade. The court handles tariff disputes and settles suits between importers and customs officials.
        Although he was eligible for retirement in 1968, at the age of 70, Judge Rao chose to remain on the bench. He stepped down as Chief Judge in 1971 but remained as an associate judge, carrying a full calendar and going to his office at Foley Square each day from his home on 61st Street. He had declined to take senior-judge status that would have allowed him to work part time. Born in Sicily
        Paul Peter Rao was born in Sicily on June 15, 1899, and came with his parents to the United States five years later. He received his early education in the New York City public schools, but in 1917 he interrupted his studies to enlist in the Navy. He saw active service in the Mediterranean and for about a year he was attached to the French Navy as an interpreter.
        He graduated from Fordham Law School in 1923, along with several others who were to achieve political prominence, including Mayor William O'Dwyer and Thomas J. Curran, later Secretary of State for New York and the Republican county leader in Manhattan.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, Judge Rao was the patriarch of a politically connected family that wielded great influence in Democratic circles. He had reached the bench through the traditional Democratic Party patronage route, serving as an assistant district attorney in Manhattan in the mid-1920's. He was appointed an assistant United States attorney by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1941 on the recommendation of Tammany Hall leaders as well as Democratic Party leaders across the country. Active in Veterans Groups
        He was active in Italian-American organizations and veterans groups. He was a former vice commander of the New York County American Legion and member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the Disabled American Veterans.
        In 1974, Judge Rao were was indicted on a perjury charge when accused of lying to a special grand jury about a meeting he had in his office with a female undercover agent who was seeking his help with a bogus criminal case involving a friend. The judge was accused by Maurice H. Nadjari, a special state prosecutor investigating corruption in the criminal-justice system, of telling her to hire his son, Paul Jr., and then lying to the grand jury about the conversation.
        The charge against Judge Rao was dismissed three years later by a State Supreme Court justice. Mr. Nadjari's tactics in manufacturing a supposed crime and then trying to involve officials in corrupt acts were denounced by other judges.
        In addition to his son, Paul, he is survived by his wife, the former Catherine Marola, and two daughters, Nina Gewald and Grayce Visconti, all of Manhattan; seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        A funeral mass is scheduled tomorrow at 10 A.M. at Our Lady of Peace Roman Catholic Church, at 237 East 62d Street.
      