
       Thornton F. Bradshaw, a leader in American business who became the last chairman of RCA and made his mark in broadcasting by helping to restore NBC to first place among the three major television networks, died yesterday in New York Hospital. He suffered a stroke Monday. He was 71 years old and lived in
        Thornton F. Bradshaw, a leader in American business who became the last chairman of RCA and made his mark in broadcasting by helping to restore NBC to first place among the three major television networks, died yesterday in New York Hospital. He suffered a stroke Monday. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Bradshaw, after bringing prestige back to NBC and financial health to the RCA Corporation, presided over the $6.3 billion sale of the innovative corporation to another innovative giant, the General Electric Company.
        Mr. Bradshaw, who also had a house on Martha's Vineyard, Mass., had appeared to be in good health recently and played tennis with his wife over the weekend.
        Mr. Bradshaw was known as an intellectual and academic who not only taught management techniques, but also skilfully put them into practice. Long Reach and Turmoil
        He enjoyed a reputation as a corporate statesman who campaigned for the social responsibility of business, calling for improved mass transit, an end to the oil-depletion allowance and starting a national energy policy while he headed the Atlantic Richfield oil company.
        Mr. Bradshaw was also considered something of a corporate doctor when he was tapped to lead RCA back to pre-eminence after years of internal turmoil in which its network had fallen into third place in popularity and the company had extended its reach beyond the television and electronics businesses into car rentals, carpets and insurance.
        Mr. Bradshaw succeeded in his mandate and won the admiration of his staff and competitors.
        The chief executive of CBS, Laurence A. Tisch, said yesterday: ''Thornton Bradshaw was a gentleman and a giant in our industry. He was a creative force in television, in finance and in the cultural world. His influence was widespread. His impact will be lasting.'' Harvard Alumnus and Professor
        The chairman of G.E., John F. Welch Jr., said, ''America has lost a great business leader, and all of us from the more competitive company he helped create have lost an adviser and a good friend.''
        A gentle slightly rumpled man with a soft voice whose lips were always on the verge of a smile, Mr. Bradshaw seemed much more the academic he once was than the executive he became.
        Thornton Frederick Bradshaw was born Aug. 4, 1917, in Washington and grew up in New York. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard, where he earned a bachelor's, an M.B.A. and a doctorate.
        Many people in corporations remember him as a professor at the Graduate School of Business Administration at Harvard, where he taught from 1942 to 1952, except for three years of service on a destroyer in the Pacific in World War II. He was discharged as a lieutenant (j.g.) with seven battle stars. Struck Oil in '67
        In 1952, Mr. Bradshaw joined the Cresap, McCormick & Paget, the management consultant in Manhattan, where he started to develop his philosophy of long-range corporate planning. In 1956, he had the opportunity to transform a regional oil company into a conglomerate when he joined the Atlantic Refining Company, which, through a merger in 1966, became the Atlantic Richfield Company. Mr. Bradshaw was president.
        The next year, ARCO was the first to strike oil at Prudhoe Bay on the North Slope of Alaska.
        As the industry was attacked by environmentalists, Mr. Bradshaw, with the support of Robert O. Anderson, a major shareholder and chairman of the executive committee, started the ARCO Foundation, which undertook philanthropic projects.
        ''The new dimension for business,'' Mr. Bradshaw wrote in an internal memo in 1980, ''is social approval. Without it, economic victory would be pyrrhic indeed.'' Direction for Company
        When Mr. Bradshaw was selected to head RCA in 1981, he was the fourth chief executive in six years, and his was seen as an interim appointment, as well. His mandate was to bring calm and find a successor to lead the company out of its difficulties. He did both.
        ''RCA should be a communications company, an electronics company and an entertainment company,'' he said at the time. ''We're now in the carpet business, the car-rental business and the financing business. I'm not saying we'll get out of those businesses, but that the main thrust will be meeting what will be an extraordinary demand for communications in the 1980's.''
        Mr. Bradshaw divested some holdings and turned to Grant Tinker, then president of MTM Productions, to head NBC and return it to health. Mr. Tinker took the network back to first position after several seasons. Mr. Bradshaw was patient.
        ''He never picked up the phone to complain that it was taking a long time,'' Mr. Tinker said at the time. Yesterday, he said:
        ''If there was ever a fairer, nicer, total gentleman than Brad I've yet to meet him. He left an exemplary legacy, and I'm only one of so many who'll miss him greatly.'' Head of Many Organizations
        In 1985, Mr. Bradshaw presided over the acquisition of RCA by G.E. He saw the deal as the best hope for preserving jobs in RCA's slow-growing businesses and a way to end the reliance on NBC to support the whole corporation. Mr. Bradshaw remained on the G.E. board and was a consultant at his death.
        He was also chairman of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and a board member of Atlantic Richfield, First Boston Inc. and Brooks Fashion Stores Inc. He was chairman of the Center for Communication, the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies and the Joseph Lauder Institute of Management and International Studies at the University of Pennsylvania, and was a board member of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the Japan Society.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Patricia Salter West, a writer; three children from a previous marriage to Sally Bradford Davis, Nancy Poor of Boston, Priscilla Page of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Jonathan, of Newbury Park, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      