
       Lawrence Arthur Wien, lawyer, realtor and philanthropist who donated millions of dollars to education and the arts, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 83 years old and had additional homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Lawrence Arthur Wien, lawyer, realtor and philanthropist who donated millions of dollars to education and the arts, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 83 years old and had additional homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Wien, a founder and senior partner of the 60-year-old Manhattan law firm known today as Wien Malkin & Bettex, was a 1925 graduate of Columbia College and received his law degree two years later from the Columbia Law School.
        He was generally recognized as a pioneer in real-estate investment syndications. In 1931 he and three partners each put up $2,000 to buy a small apartment house in Harlem. From that early beginning, he went on to organize syndicates that at one time controlled more than $2 billion worth of real estate, including many New York City landmarks. Substantial Realty Holdings
        His groups held ownership or long-term leases on the Empire State Building, the Equitable Building, the Graybar Building, the Fisk Bulding, the Garment Capitol Building, the Fifth Avenue Building and the Lincoln Building, where he had his offices.
        His holdings at times also included major hotels like the Plaza, the Taft, the St. Moritz, the Lexington, the Town House and the Governor Clinton, as well as substantial properties in Newark, Palm Beach, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Las Vegas.
        He was known primarily, however, as a patron of the arts and a major contributor to philanthropic causes. Over the years he gave millions of dollars to the arts and to civic, educational and welfare organizations. In October he was again nominated for the National Medal of Arts by George Weissman, chairman of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.
        Mr. Wien, an impressive figure at 5 feet 10 inches and about 150 pounds, called his philosophy of giving ''intelligent selfishness.'' He said that by contributing to charitable causes, he could see the results while alive. 'The Fun of Giving'
        In an interview in 1982 he noted that he had already provided a reasonable degree of security for his family, and ''I decided to have the fun of giving my money away.''
        And give it away he did. Among his major contributions was about $8.5 million to Brandeis University, including money to establish in 1958 an endownment fund at the Waltham, Mass., institution for tuition, maintenance and travel assistance to 15 foreign students a year. Since the inception of the Wien International Scholarship, 639 students have benefited.
        The very symbol of the university, a statue of Associate Justice Louis Brandeis of the United States Supreme Court, was commissioned by Mr. Wien in 1956, eight years after the school was founded.
        In 1959 he created a national scholarship at the Columbia Law School that has provided financial aid to 424 students in the 11 Federal judicial districts across the country.
        In 1969 Mr. Wien added $1.2 million to his contributions to the Lincoln Center to help complete its capital fund drive. He had served as vice chairman and a trustee of the center for almost 20 years. $20 Million to Columbia His donations to his alma mater, Columbia University, came to more than $20 million over the years, including $6 million toward replacing the university's crumbling football stadium at Baker Field. The new arena was named in his honor.
        Mr. Wien was also extremely generous with his time, serving as president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies from 1960 to 1963 and working each Wednesday at the agency's headquarters. He continued to serve as an honorary chairman.
        He was a trustee of Columbia University from 1964 to 1970 and participated in the Columbia College Council and Columbia College Fund. The university honored him in 1981 with its Alexander Hamilton Medal, the highest honor given to an alumnus.
        In October Mr. Wien was honored at Brandeis University, of which he was a trustee from 1957 to 1984, serving as chairman from 1967 to 1971. Gravely ill and confined to a wheelchair, he was the guest of honor at the 30th anniversary dinner celebrating the Wien International Scholarship. It was his last appearance at the university, where scores of recipients of the full scholarship surrounded him in a tearful appreciation. Civic Roles in New York
        He was born in New York City and took on many civic responsibilities in the city he said he loved. He was an official of the City Fusion Party from 1933 to 1935, working to elect Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia.
        He was a mayoral appointee of the New York City Council Against Poverty from 1966 to 1970. In addition most of the property he owned was in the city, and for many years he was a patron of the New York City Ballet, the New York City Opera, the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the Institute of International Education.
        While he contributed millions of dollars to charities, he also induced others, including major corporations across the country, to increase their financial support for charitable, civic and educational institutions.
        In 1978 he purchased 100 shares of stock in 400 major corporations and then, as a stockholder, questioned management about how the companies were meeting their reponsibilities in supporting charitable causes. He founded the Committee to Increase Corporate Philanthropic Giving, and in two and a half years contributions by corporations that he got in touch with increased by about $500 million a year.
        Another result of this effort is the Wien Prize in Corporate Social Responsibility at Columbia University, which is awarded to a corporation that is in the forefront of philanthropy. The prize also provides annual fellowships, awarded in the name of the selected corporation, to two students at the Graduate School of Business and to three at the Columbia Law School. Received Many Awards
        Mr. Wien received many awards and honors, including honorary Doctor of Laws degrees from Brandeis University and Long Island University in 1962, Columbia University in 1974, Fairfield (Conn.) University in 1984 and St. John's University in 1985. He also received honorary degrees from Canisius College, Buffalo, in 1970 and the Juilliard School this year.
        He found time to serve on the boards of numerous public corporations, including Consolidated Edison, Borden Inc., Jonathan Logan Inc., Morse Shoe and the United Nations Development Corporation.
        Mr. Wien's first wife of 57 years, the former Mae Levy, died in 1986.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Kupper, whom he married in December 1987; two daughters, Enid W. Morse of Manhattan and Armonk, N.Y., and Isabel W. Malkin of Greenwich, Conn.; two brothers, Mortimer and Leonard, both of Miami Beach; a sister, Mrs. Bernard T. Hein of Engelwood, N.J.; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      