
       Max Robinson, a television correspondent who became the first black to anchor a network news broadcast, died of AIDS yesterday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 49 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Max Robinson, a television correspondent who became the first black to anchor a network news broadcast, died of AIDS yesterday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 49 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Robinson came to national prominence in July 1978 when he became a co-anchor of the ABC News weeknight program ''World News Tonight.'' The program had three anchors: Frank Reynolds in Washington, Peter Jennings in London and Mr. Robinson in Chicago. For nearly a decade before that, Mr. Robinson had been a co-anchor at WTOP (now WUSA), the ABC affililate in Washington.
        Mr. Reynolds died in July 1983, and two months later Mr. Jennings was named the sole anchor and senior editor of ''World News Tonight.'' 'A Crooked Mirror'
        During his years at ABC News, Mr. Robinson frequently spoke out on issues of concern to him as a black journalist and role model. In February 1981 he told an audience at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., that the news media were ''a crooked mirror'' through which ''white America views itself,'' and that ''only by talking about racism, by taking a professional risk, will I take myself out of the mean, racist trap all black Americans find themselves in.'' He later said that he had not meant to single out ABC for criticism.
        In interviews, Mr. Robinson admitted to having problems with alcohol and depression throughout his career. On camera, however, he had an unforced, authoritative manner. ''In terms of sheer performance, Max was a penetrating communicator,'' Mr. Jennings said yesterday. ''He had a natural gift to look in the camera and talk to people.''
        Mr. Robinson remained with ABC News for a year and a half after the demise of the three-anchor broadcast, delivering weekend reports among other duties. In February 1984 he was hired by WMAQ, a Chicago affiliate of NBC, to become the co-anchor of its evening news programs, but he left the station after several months. Activities in Last Years
        Mr. Robinson, who grew up in Richmond and attended Oberlin College, spent the last years of his life painting and working on an autobiography. He received many honors and was a founder of the National Association of Black Journalists.
        In accordance with Mr. Robinson's wishes, his family requested that his death be the occasion for emphasizing the importance of education about AIDS, Roger Wilkins, a senior fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington as well as a friend of the anchor, said yesterday.
        Mr. Robinson's three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his mother, Doris Robinson Griffin, and stepfather, the Rev. James Griffin, of Norfolk, Va.; two sisters, Jewell Robinson Shepperd and Jean Robinson Yancey, and a brother, Randall, all of Washington, and four children, Mark, of Washington, Maureen and Michael, of Richmond, and Malik, of Chicago.
      