
       Ulanhu, a former deputy chairman of the Chinese National People's Congress who fought for Mongolian rights during his long political career, died today, the official New China News Agency said. He was 82 years old.
        Ulanhu, a former deputy chairman of the Chinese National People's Congress who fought for Mongolian rights during his long political career, died today, the official New China News Agency said. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Ulanhu died in Beijing after being hospitalized for an unspecified illness, the agency said.
        An ethnic Mongol, he was one of the highese-ranking non-Chinese in the party leadership.
        He worked for Inner Mongolia's independence from Nationalist-ruled China in the 1930's and fought against Japanese efforts to occupy Inner Mongolia. He also worked on the international scene, particularly in relations with Outer Mongolia, the Mongolian People's Republic, where Soviet influence is strong but ethnic identification with Inner Mongolia is close.
        He was also personal secretary to a Chinese warlord in Inner Mongolia, and did underground work for the Chinese Communist Party. Inner Mongolia Posts
        After the party's victory in 1949, Mr. Ulanhu held a series of posts in the central Government, including Deputy Prime Minister.
        He was also appointed government chairman, party secretary and army commander in Inner Mongolia and ruled the vast barren region virtually single-handedly for nearly two decades before being removed in 1967 during the Cultural Revolution.
        As Inner Mongolia's top official, Mr. Ulanhu urged China's majority Han nationality to respect the rights of minorities, including the Mongols.
        When radical youth groups called Red Guards tried to take over Inner Mongolian government offices in 1967, Mr. Ulanhu used his troops against them. Leftist leaders in Beijing finally sent in outside troops to remove Mr. Ulanhu from office on charges of having made himself ''ruler in an independent kingdom.''
        Mr. Ulanhu's supporters in Inner Mongolia fought the outside troops for months, calling themselves the Genghis Khan Combat Corps, in honor of the 13th century Mongol conqueror. Retired in 1987
        After being rehabilitated in 1973, Mr. Ulanhu held posts in the party's top policy-making bodies, the Central Committee and the Politburo, but was never returned to office in Inner Mongolia. He also led numerous delegations overseas in the late 1970's.
        He was a deputy chairman on the National People's Congress, the legislature, since 1975. There are 18 other deputy chairmen.
        He retired last year at the 13th National Party Congress.
        Mr. Ulanhu was ''a long-tested veteran Communist, an outstanding party and state leader and a proletarian revolutionary as well as a noted guide of minority-nationality affairs,'' said the New China News Agency, quoting an obituary issued by the party.
        He was born in 1906 in Inner Mongolia to a feudal aristocratic family. He was educated in Moscow and Beijing, where he joined the Communist Youth League in 1923 and the Communist Party soon after.
      