
       Hal Ashby, who won an Academy Award for his film editing and whose critical and popular successes as a director included ''Harold and Maude,'' ''Shampoo'' and ''Coming Home,'' died of liver and colon cancer at his home in Malibu, Calif., yesterday. He was 59 years old.
        Hal Ashby, who won an Academy Award for his film editing and whose critical and popular successes as a director included ''Harold and Maude,'' ''Shampoo'' and ''Coming Home,'' died of liver and colon cancer at his home in Malibu, Calif., yesterday. He was 59 years old.
        Other films he directed included ''The Last Detail,'' ''Being There,'' ''Bound for Glory,'' ''Second Hand Hearts,'' ''Let's Spend the Night Together,'' ''Slugger's Wife'' and ''Eight Million Ways to Die,'' his last film. Mr. Ashby won an Oscar in 1968 for editing Norman Jewison's ''In the Heat of the Night.''
        ''You wouldn't typecast Hal as a film director,'' the cinematographer Haskell Wexler once said of Mr. Ashby. ''Most directors are dictatorial, active managerial, executive types. Hal's gentle.'' A Beginning at the Bottom
        Mr. Ashby was born in Ogden, Utah, and was 40 by the time he became film director, 19 years after he had gone to the California State Department of Unemployment and naively asked for a job in a movie studio. In fact, a job happened to be available - as a multilith operator running a kind of mimeograph machine - and it took Mr. Ashby five years to become an apprentice editor at the Republic and Disney Studios.
        His first assignment as head editor was ''The Loved One,'' the 1965 Tony Richardson film based on Evelyn Waugh's satiric novel about Hollywood. Among the better-known movies he edited were ''The Cincinnati Kid'' and ''The Thomas Crown Affair.'' Of his time as an editor, he once said: ''I'd gotten better and better at my work, meanwhile wrecking three marriages. Suddenly I was almost 40, and I no longer had the energy to pursue it.'' Success of 'Shampoo'
        In 1970, Mr. Jewison found himself unable to direct ''The Landlord'' and turned it over to Mr. Ashby to direct. Ultimately the box office success of ''Shampoo,'' released in 1975, enabled Mr. Ashby to pick material congenial to his gentle view of the world.
        ''The common denominator of all his films,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, ''is the excellence of the performances. Mr. Ashby casts his films as carefully as he directs them.''
        Mr. Ashby is survived by a sister, Ardith Thomson of Ogden, Utah, and a brother, Jack, of Fresno, Calif.
      