
       Curt Paul Richter, a retired professor of psychobiology at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions who was a pioneer in the discovery and study of biorhythms, died yesterday at his home in Baltimore. He was 94 years old.
        Curt Paul Richter, a retired professor of psychobiology at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions who was a pioneer in the discovery and study of biorhythms, died yesterday at his home in Baltimore. He was 94 years old.
        Among Dr. Richter's contributions to his field was the concept of the ''biological clock,'' a phrase that Johns Hopkins, in a statement announcing his death, said he introduced in 1927 in a paper on the cyclical internal mechanisms that govern animals' eating, running, drinking and sexual behavior, Other work by Dr. Richter demonstrated clearly for the first time that the biological workings of human beings were were powerfully influenced by learned behavior. In 1966, for example, he reported that when human ancestors learned to use fire, the discovery probably changed human habits significantly. Consequently, he said, the structure of the brain was also changed, and the ability to learn and communicate was enhanced. Synthesizer of Ideas
        Dr. Richter was credited with uncovering behavioral and biochemical interrelationships governing such diverse matters as sleep, jet lag, stress reactions and the onset of cancer and other diseases. He was one of the first to draw from psychology, physiology, neurology and psychiatry to produce new insights and syntheses of ideas, said Dr. Richard S. Ross, dean of the Johns Hopkins's School of Medicine.
        ''If today there is a forceful movement in biomedicine which seeks to integrate the needs of the mind and body,'' Dr. Ross said, ''then Richter's patient devotion to precise observation and measurement of behavior set it in motion.''
        Born in Denver, Dr. Richter graduated from East Denver High School and the Technische Hochschule in Dresden, Germany. In 1917 he was awarded a bachelor of science degree from Harvard University, after which he served in the United States Army as a first lieutenant. After his military service he attended Johns Hopkins, from which he received a Ph.D. in 1921.
        He joined the Johns Hopkins faculty that year, and a year later became director of the psychobiology laboratory in the university's Henry Phipps Psychiatric Clinic. He held the post until 1957, when he was named professor of psychobiology. He also served on the faculty of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University in 1957 and 1958. Active After Retirement
        Although he officially retired in 1960, he continued to work in his laboratory until this year, and played tennis until he broke his hip a few years ago.
        In his career, he wrote more than 250 research papers. In 1977, he received the Passano Award, given each year for outstanding contributions to the advancement of medical science through work done in the United States.
        Dr. Richter was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the nation's most prestigious honorary society for scientists, the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Leslie Bidwell Richter of Baltimore; a son, Dr. Peter Richter of New York City; two daughters, Ann Roy of New Orleans and Martha R. Bailey of Boston; two stepchildren, Harold Wharton Smith of Kerrville, Tex., and Leslie S. Larkin of Boston; nine grandchildren, five great-grandchildren, a step-grandchild and two step-great-grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held at noon Friday at St. Johns Huntingtons Episcopal Church in Baltimore.
      