
       Benjamin Shaw, financial backer and adviser to a host of fashion designers in the 1960's, died of a brain tumor Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 years old.
        Benjamin Shaw, financial backer and adviser to a host of fashion designers in the 1960's, died of a brain tumor Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Shaw, a longtime denizen of Seventh Avenue, was a dress manufacturer himself before he began encouraging designers to establish their own businesses, thereby changing the character of the industry. As the designers moved out of the back rooms, where they had labored anonymously since the beginning of the century, their companies developed readily identifiable styles.
        Among the designers Mr. Shaw supported at one time or another were Donald Brooks, Geoffrey Beene, Leo Narducci, Stephen Burrows, Albert Capraro, Oscar de la Renta, Halston, Hazel Haire, Gayle Kirkpatrick, Jane Derby, Giorgio Sant'Angelo and James Daugherty. He never encouraged a homogeneous look, but urged each designer to express himself in his clothes.
        He was born in Kiev, Russia, and came to this country with his family when he was 3 years old. His mother, Rose, was a dressmaker on the Lower East Side and his first venture in the garment industry was finding buttons and zippers for her.
        After a few years of school, he worked as a messenger. He moved up gradually through sales and production until he became a partner in Wieman, Wilkes & Shaw in 1925. The depression put the company out of business four years later. In 1935, he started Elfreda, a dress house that prospered until l954, when he retired. Retirement lasted about six months.
        Before he got involved with American designers, he experimented in the 1950's with importing ready-to-wear collections of the French couture houses, Nina Ricci and Pierre Balmain.
        ''He could not make a pattern, but he could tell whether a dress worked,'' said his son, Gerald, president of Oscar de la Renta. ''He had a talent for spotting talent - he really appreciated good design.''
        He told young designers who asked his advice to ''work hard, take any job even it's picking up pins and, one day, if you have it, you will go out on your own.'' He tempered his advice by pointing out that out of l0 aspirants only one will get a job as a designer and only one in 10,000 will make it big.
        He was married twice, to Helen Kritzer, the mother of his three children, and to Miriam Sharp, who died in 1982.
        He is survived by his sons, Gerald, of Manhattan, and Robert, of Boston; 10 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held 10 A.M. Tuesday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street. Instead of flowers, the family suggests contributions to charity.
      