
       Earl Dodge Osborn, founder and director emeritus of the EDO Corporation, an aircraft manufacturer in College Point, Queens, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 95 years old.
        Earl Dodge Osborn, founder and director emeritus of the EDO Corporation, an aircraft manufacturer in College Point, Queens, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Osborn founded the company, which took its name from his initials, in 1925. After his retirement in 1953, he became active in the Institute for International Order, now known as the World Policy Institute, which he served as president and secretary. The organization seeks to stimulate public education on ways of securing peace through support of the United Nations.
        Mr. Osborn, who once said in an interview that he was one ''. . . of the copper Dodges, not the auto Dodges,'' graduated from Princeton University in 1915 and served in World War I with the American Ambulance and Commission for Relief in Belgium until 1917, when he was wounded at Verdun. He received the Croix de Guerre. He later enlisted in the 78th Division of the American Expeditionary Force. Fascination With Seaplanes
        After the war he joined the Aeromarine Airways Company, a pioneer organization in transporting passengers. His fascination with seaplanes led to his founding EDO. The business later shifted to producing seaplane floats and has since expanded to include electronic equipment for military and commercial aerospace, marine and industrial markets.
        Among its accomplishments was the development and installation of the first aluminum floats in 1926, and the introduction of fluted-bottom floats, which contributed to the improvement of seaplanes. The largest set of floats the company produced went on the Curtiss Condor of Adm. Richard E. Byrd for his second South Pole expedition in 1933.
        Mr. Osborn was editor and publisher of Aviation magazine from 1924 to 1929, a founder of the Wings Club of New York, an organization of leaders in the aviation business, and a founder of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      