
       Thomas C. Blaisdell Jr., a former Assistant Secretary of Commerce who helped design the Marshall Plan to help revive Europe after World War II, died Tuesday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 93 years old and lived in Berkeley.
        Thomas C. Blaisdell Jr., a former Assistant Secretary of Commerce who helped design the Marshall Plan to help revive Europe after World War II, died Tuesday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 93 years old and lived in Berkeley.
        Mr. Blaisdell, a distinguished professor of political science at the University of California at Berkeley, was named to the Cabinet by President Truman in 1949. He was one of several experts in the Government who worked with Under Secretary of State Robert A. Lovett in working out a a plan for Western Europe's recovery. Two Economies to Consider
        Under his direction, the Commerce Department's Office of International Trade established licensing procedures to exporters seeking to sell commodities overseas. A key factor in deciding to grant licenses was how significant the shipment would be to the recovery in Europe and to the domestic economy.
        Mr. Blaisdell, born in Pittsburgh, earned a bachelor's degree at Pennsylvania State College in 1916, and a master's degree in social history in 1922 at Columbia University and a doctorate there in 1932. He also taught at Columbia from 1925 to 1932.
        In 1933, he joined the Administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt as assistant director of the Consumers' Council, which studied the effect on consumers of surplus crop curtailment. He also worked on the Agricultural Adjustment Administration. Seeds of Recovery in London
        Over the next two decades, he held numerous government posts, ranging from membership on the War Production Board in 1943 to chief of mission for economic affairs in London in 1945. There, he he helped carry out an agreement between the Allied governments to rehabilitate Western Europe's transportation systems.
        Writing in The New York Times Magazine in September 1943, Mr. Blaisdell warned that mobilization for war was relatively simple compared with what was in store for the United States after the war. ''When the war ends, we shall be faced with wide economic dislocation,'' he wrote.
        As a writer, Mr. Blaisdell was perhaps best known for his book ''The American Presidency in Political Cartoons,'' which he wrote with Peter Selz, a professor of art history at Berkeley. Mr. Blaisdell joined the faculty there in 1951 and was named professor emeritus in 1963.
        Surviving are his son, Thomas; a brother, William; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      