
        Bo Yibo, the last of the Eight Immortals, Communist Party leaders who steered China through a politically volatile shift from Maoism to today's market-oriented economic boom, died Monday. He was 98.
        His death was announced Tuesday evening by the official news agency Xinhua.
        As one of the elderly but immensely influential party veterans who hovered above the country's appointed leadership in the 1980s and 90s, Mr. Bo helped Deng Xiaoping, the paramount leader who died in 1997, overcome elite opposition to capitalist-style economic reforms.
        Also like Deng, Mr. Bo had little tolerance for political liberalization. He played an important role in purging Hu Yaobang, a popular party leader who favored faster political change, in 1987. Mr. Bo also defended the army crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Beijing in 1989, which left hundreds of people dead.
        The Eight Immortals were an informal group of senior Communist Party leaders who were purged during Mao's Cultural Revolution but experienced a second political life after Mr. Deng's return to power in 1978.
        All had participated in the Long March, the grueling 5,000-mile flight from Nationalist forces that saved the party from annihilation in China's civil war. All supported, to varying degrees, the policy of ''reform and opening'' that laid the foundation for China's newfound prosperity.
        Mr. Bo protected the Communist Party's monopoly on power even as he embraced ideologically variable ideas for enlivening the economy, a mix of rigidity and flexibility that has helped the party stay in control despite its internal upheavals and the collapse of the Soviet Union.
        His death is not likely to bring an end to the tradition of retired party leaders intervening in the affairs of the younger officials. But he was among the last of the Long March veterans whose unassailable revolutionary credentials meant that he could anoint a young official for higher office, or help topple a seemingly entrenched party boss who offended his elders.
        The subject of political gossip for many years, Mr. Bo lived long enough to see the party evolve into a more institutional and bureaucratic entity that did not hang to the same degree on the whispered whims of its elders. Young people in China rarely appear to discuss high-level politics, and the few remaining Long March survivors who served in high office are generally ignored.
        But his influence has been passed on to a new generation. He is the father of Bo Xilai, the commerce minister, and is thought to have cut political deals to help his son ascend the hierarchy.
        A native of Shanxi Province in the northwest, Mr. Bo joined the Communist Party in 1925, when he was 17. After run-ins with the Nationalist police during party organizing activities in the eastern part of the country, he helped the retreating Communists establish a stronghold in Shanxi.
        During World War II, Mr. Bo set up the Shanxi Suicide Squad, a guerrilla group that fought Japanese troops then occupying China. He also lured a powerful Shanxi-based warlord, Yan Xishan, into the Red Army, increasing its military strength by some 200,000 troops.
        When the Communists took power in 1949, Mr. Bo served as the first finance minister. He held numerous similar posts, including vice premier under Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, until early 1965, when he was labeled a ''rightist'' for supporting open trade with Western countries.
        During the ensuing Cultural Revolution, he and his family were sent to prison and lived in miserable conditions for nearly 15 years. His wife was beaten to death in custody.
        Deng returned him to his old post of vice premier in 1979. Mr. Bo helped carry out the ''reform and opening'' policy that permitted broader trade and investment flows and allowed some entrepreneurial economic activity. He became one of Deng's top political lieutenants. He was also a lead author of a definitive early party history published in 1993.
        Politically conservative, Mr. Bo supported crackdowns on intellectuals and dissidents in the 1980s, and he backed Deng's decision to remove Hu Yaobang from his position as party general secretary in 1987. Mr. Bo wrote a lengthy report, called Document No. 3, that accused Mr. Hu of favoring ''bourgeois liberalization,'' a code word for Western-style political change.
        After Deng ordered troops to open fire on unarmed protesters in and around Tiananmen Square in June 1989, Mr. Bo threw his weight behind the crackdown, speaking publicly to defend the shootings.
        Yet he also backed Deng when recalcitrant Marxists tried to reassert control over economic planning in the aftermath of the shootings. Some party officials say his support for continued market-oriented reforms may have proved essential at a time when Deng's health and prestige were fading.
        Mr. Bo was thought to have supported President Jiang Zemin in the 1990s. But his focus may have shifted to leveraging his remaining influence to help his son rise up the ranks of provincial leaders. Bo Xilai served as mayor of Dalian and governor of Liaoning Province before being promoted to commerce minister in 2004.
        The younger Mr. Bo is viewed as a possible candidate for vice premier and perhaps a seat on the Politburo Standing Committee at the 17th Party Congress later this year. But as the son of an influential elder, he has had to overcome opposition within a party that formally frowns on nepotism.
      