
        Yvonne De Carlo, a dark-haired Hollywood beauty who advanced from the chorus line to play Moses' wife in a movie epic but who achieved her greatest popularity as Lily in the CBS television sitcom ''The Munsters,'' died on Monday in Los Angeles. She was 84.
        The cause was heart failure, said Kevin Burns, a friend and television producer. She had been living at the Motion Picture and Television Country House and Hospital, he said.
        Miss De Carlo had had a prolific film career in the 1940s and '50s when she was cast as Lily Munster, the wife of Herman Munster (Fred Gwynne), a bumbling Frankenstein's monster with a soft heart who led a Charles Addams-flavored household peopled by the likes of an aging Count Dracula, the cigar-chomping Grandpa (Al Lewis).
        The sitcom went on the air in 1964 and lasted only two seasons, but achieved a kind of pop-culture immortality in decades of reruns and movie and television spinoffs.
        In her cape and robes and with a streak of white in her black hair, Miss De Carlo's Lily was a glamorous ghoul and a kind of Bride of Frankenstein as homemaker, ''dusting'' her gothic mansion at 1313 Mockingbird Lane with a vacuum cleaner set on reverse. The humor mostly derived from the family members' oblivious belief that they were no different from their neighbors. It was Miss De Carlo, for example, who delivered one of the show's signature lines: ''Do you have a feeling we're being stared at?''
        She was born Peggy Yvonne Middleton in Vancouver, British Columbia. Her father deserted the home, leaving her mother to make a living as a waitress. Ambition on both their parts led Peggy to study dance and dramatics and her mother to seek fame and fortune with her in California.
        Peggy turned into Yvonne and took her mother's maiden name, De Carlo, as her own. She started dancing in clubs at night and scouring the film studios for work by day. There were years of uncredited walk-ons and bit parts, like Bathing Beauty in ''Harvard, Here I Come!'' (1941) and Princess Wah-Tah in ''The Deerslayer'' (1943).
        Her breakthrough came with a starring role in ''Salome, Where She Danced'' (1945), a Western with Rod Cameron and Walter Slezak, in which she played a European seductress. While the movie may have been forgettable, she became known as one of Hollywood's most desirable young stars and advanced to pictures playing opposite some of the era's most popular leading men.
        Among them were Brian Donlevy and Jean Pierre Aumont in ''Song of Scheherazade'' (1947); Tony Martin in ''Casbah'' (1948); Burt Lancaster in ''Criss Cross'' (1949); Howard Duff in ''Calamity Jane and Sam Bass'' (1949) and ''Flame of the Islands'' (1956); Van Heflin in ''Tomahawk'' (1951); Joel McCrea in ''The San Francisco Story'' (1952); Ricardo Montalban in ''Sombrero'' (1953); and Rock Hudson in ''Sea Devils'' (1953).
        One of her outstanding parts in those busy years came in the British comedy ''The Captain's Paradise'' (1953). As Nita, the hotblooded other wife in Tangier, she taught a blithely bigamous English ferry captain (Alec Guinness) the flamenco, among other things.
        After that, she made ''Tonight's the Night,'' with David Niven and Barry Fitzgerald, and ''Passion,'' with Cornel Wilde, both in 1954. Three years later she starred with Clark Gable and Sidney Poitier in ''Band of Angels,'' after the novel by Robert Penn Warren. In 1956 it was ''Raw Edge,'' with Rory Calhoun, then, the same year, ''Death of a Scoundrel,'' with George Sanders playing the cad in question and Miss De Carlo doing, in the words of a reviewer for The New York Times, ''a solid and professional job as the adoring petty thief who rises to eminence with him.''
        One of her most prominent roles was as Sephora, wife to Charlton Heston's Moses in the Cecil B. DeMille extravaganza ''The Ten Commandments'' (1956). ''Yvonne De Carlo as the Midianite shepherdess to whom Moses is wed,'' wrote Bosley Crowther in The Times, ''is notably good in a severe role.''
        She also appeared on Broadway in 1971 in ''Follies,'' the long-running musical by Stephen Sondheim and James Goldman. She assumed the part of a fading movie star and took in audiences with her matter-of-fact presentation of Mr. Sondheim's wistful ''I'm Still Here.''
        Altogether, Miss De Carlo appeared in nearly 100 films well into the 1990s, starting with uncredited roles and tapering into thrillers and sci-fi potboilers like ''Silent Scream'' (1980) and ''American Gothic'' (1988). There were also many cameo appearances, as in ''Here Come the Munsters,'' a 1995 television-movie reincarnation in which the Munsters invade America in search of Herman's brother-in-law, Norman Hyde.
        Miss De Carlo's marriage to Robert Morgan, an actor and stuntman, ended in divorce. She is survived by their son Bruce Morgan and a stepdaughter, Bari Morgan. Another son, Michael, died earlier.
        Many years ago Miss De Carlo's name was linked in an off-screen romance with Howard Hughes, before he turned into a legendary recluse. Asked to reminisce about that chapter in her life by Ladies' Home Journal in 1972, she said: ''Howard taught me how to land a plane and how to take off. But he never taught me anything about flying in between. He thought that I had learned the difficult parts, and that was enough.''
      