
        Glen Tetley, an American choreographer long popular in Europe whose pioneering fusion of ballet and modern dance challenged taboos and rattled purists but influenced major companies worldwide, died on Friday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 and also had homes in New York and Rome.
        The cause was melanoma, said his sister Byrne Erb.
        Mr. Tetley -- who also succeeded John Cranko as director of the Stuttgart Ballet from 1974 to 1976 -- choreographed in the United States for American Ballet Theater, Dance Theater of Harlem, the Houston Ballet and in Toronto for the National Ballet of Canada. His works were performed by other companies including the San Francisco Ballet, the Feld Ballet and the early Joffrey Ballet.
        But essentially he was Europe's favorite American choreographer, more honored in the Old World than the New. In 1969, he closed his own company in New York and arrived to freelance full time in Europe. From the 1960s to the 1990s, Mr. Tetley seemed ubiquitous on the dance scene there. Through his prolific creation of new works, he reversed a traditional pattern: America had imported ballet from Europe, but Mr. Tetley introduced and integrated American modern-dance aesthetics and movement into European choreography.
        But in the United States, keepers of the flame in both the ballet and modern-dance camps were long troubled by Mr. Tetley's breaking down of barriers between idioms.
        Interviewed for his 80th-birthday celebrations, Mr. Tetley recalled how ''the extreme moderns,'' as he called them, criticized him for using pirouettes and arabesques in ''Pierrot Lunaire,'' his first acclaimed piece, later popularized by Rudolf Nureyev and set to Schoenberg's Expressionist song cycle. ''I am just using the vocabulary of dance,'' Mr. Tetley told his critics.
        Today, choreographers commonly mix modern dance and ballet. But Mr. Tetley did not simply juxtapose elements of both dance idioms. True to Martha Graham, his own mentor, he incorporated the dynamic torso of Graham's technique into ballet's elongated line and partnering.
        After the early 1970's, Mr. Tetley worked less with ''contemporary'' dance troupes he helped mold like Ballet Rambert in London and Netherlands Dance Theater, where he was co-director from 1969 to 1971. As he became associated with major ballet companies like the Royal Ballet in Britain, the Australian Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet and the Royal Danish Ballet, his work gained wider acceptance.
        Nor were audiences still confounded by the taboo-breaking sexual imagery of his early pieces (''Arena'' and ''Mutations'') or his use of nothing but 20th-century music, some of it considered undanceable. ''Voluntaries,'' his popular elegiac tribute after the death of Mr. Cranko in 1973 and set to Poulenc, was often performed by Ballet Theater and numerous troupes.
        Mr. Tetley's springboard was usually intellectual or inspirational, and he was interested in Eastern religions.
        Glenford Andrew Tetley Jr. was born in Cleveland on Feb. 3, 1926, and grew up in Wilkinsburg, a suburb of Pittsburgh. The image of a journey from innocence to experience in his 1962 ''Pierrot Lunaire'' paralleled his own youthful quest. ''Pierrot finds his own unity,'' Mr. Tetley said in conversation last year. ''After I made the work, I realized it was my journey.''
        His life course, in fact, changed several times. After pre-med studies at Franklin & Marshall College and a stint in the Navy, Mr. Tetley received his B.S. degree at New York University in 1948. Already interested in dance, he studied ballet in New York with Helene Platova, Antony Tudor and Margaret Craske as well as at George Balanchine's School of American Ballet. He then trained with two modern-dance pioneers, Graham and Hanya Holm, becoming Holm's teaching assistant and appearing in the Broadway shows she choreographed.
        One of the original members of the Joffrey Ballet in 1956, he also performed with Graham's company in 1958 while dancing with Ballet Theater (until 1961), with the New York City Opera and other modern dance groups. In 1961, he was a dancer in Jerome Robbins's Ballets: U.S.A., and from 1962 to 1969, he directed the Glen Tetley Dance Company, which he disbanded because of financial problems.
        After directing the Stuttgart Ballet, which remained wedded to Mr. Cranko's more traditional aesthetic, Mr. Tetley created three successful works as artistic associate at the National Ballet of Canada from 1987 to 1989. Although even his plotless works always had an emotional undercurrent, his Toronto ''Alice'' offered a delightful psychological study of Lewis Carroll and Alice Liddell, the model for ''Alice in Wonderland.''
        He is survived by his sisters, Ms. Erb of Palmyra, Pa., and Shirley Leonard of Bellingham, Wash., as well as his companion, Raffiele Ravaioli of Rome and West Palm Beach.
        After Scott Douglas, Mr. Tetley's partner of 42 years, died in 1996, he choreographed ''Lux in Tenebris,'' another elegiac piece, for the Houston Ballet in 1999; it was his last work.
      