
        Donald E. Osterbrock, an astronomer and historian of science who studied the birth of stars and luminous clouds of gas at the core of galaxies outside the Milky Way and wrote an influential textbook about the subject, died on Jan. 11 in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Osterbrock, a former director of Lick Observatory on Mount Hamilton in California, was interested in clusters of stars and dust within clouds of gas that emit a telltale glow and are collectively known as gaseous nebulae.
        In his textbook for graduate students, ''Astrophysics of Gaseous Nebulae and Active Galactic Nuclei'' (1989), he explained the phenomenon and also described events going on at the center of external galaxies. The book includes descriptions of quasars, the distant and massive black holes whose brightness can sometimes be detected through optical telescopes from Earth. In 2006, the text was published in a revised edition with another astronomer, Gary J. Ferland.
        In the early 1950s, while still a graduate student at the University of Chicago, Dr. Osterbrock helped determine the spiral shape of the Milky Way in observations at the Yerkes Observatory in Wisconsin. Working with William W. Morgan and others, he used a wide-angle camera to detect clouds of glowing hydrogen gas and trace the spiraling arms of the galaxy. The landmark discovery was announced at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society in 1951.
        Late in his career, Dr. Osterbrock augmented his research with historical studies and intellectual biographies of prominent astronomers of the 19th and 20th centuries. He wrote profiles of James E. Keeler and Walter Baade as well as a book-length study, ''Pauper and Prince: Ritchey, Hale and Big American Telescopes'' (1993).
        Donald Edward Osterbrock was born in Cincinnati on July 13, 1924. He earned his doctorate in astronomy from the University of Chicago in 1952.
        After teaching briefly at Princeton and the California Institute of Technology, he joined the University of Wisconsin as an assistant professor of astronomy in 1958. Dr. Osterbrock was named a professor of astronomy at Wisconsin in 1961 and remained until 1973.
        He was director of Lick Observatory from 1973 to 1981, and a professor of astronomy and astrophysics at the University of California, Santa Cruz, from 1973 to 1992. He became a professor emeritus there in 1993.
        He served as president of the American Astronomical Society from 1988 to 1990. The Royal Astronomical Society awarded him a gold medal in 1997.
        Dr. Osterbrock is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Irene Hansen. The couple lived in Santa Cruz.
        He is also survived by a son, William, of Santa Cruz; two daughters, Laura of Seattle and Carol LePage of Santa Cruz; and three grandchildren.
      