
        Martin D. Kruskal, a mathematician whose wide-ranging research touched on astrophysics, nuclear fusion and the soliton, a unique form of wave that he helped describe in the 1960s, died Dec. 26 in Princeton, N.J. He was 81.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Working on a phenomenon that had been observed in the 19th century, Dr. Kruskal and a fellow researcher, Norman J. Zabusky, studied the behavior of a nonlinear wave that is able to pass through an opposing wave of the same type without affecting the energy or direction of either wave. They coined the term ''soliton.''
        Such waves have been found traveling in water, gases and other matter. Scientists in subsequent studies have found that solitons pass through fiber-optic cables and have important applications in telecommunications.
        Robert M. Miura, a professor of mathematical sciences at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, said Dr. Kruskal and Dr. Zabusky helped explain a ''striking phenomenon'' by formulating numerical simulations and putting them on a computer, ''to find the waves actually do go through each other unchanged.''
        Earlier, Dr. Kruskal, who was affiliated with Princeton University from 1951 to 1989, worked on a classified project to develop a process for controlled nuclear fusion in a Princeton laboratory. He applied theoretical mathematics to aspects of science and, with George Szekeres, developed a system for describing black holes in space, known as Kruskal-Szekeres coordinates.
        Late in his career, Dr. Kruskal became interested in surreal numbers -- a concept that includes numbers infinitely large or correspondingly small -- and helped extend the work of the originator of the concept, the British mathematician John Conway.
        In a less formal but no less serious pursuit, Dr. Kruskal developed a card trick in which he used probability to find a reliable way of identifying a playing card picked at random from a given deck. The result often baffled audiences, and the trick has been adopted by performers, who named it the Kruskal Count.
        Martin David Kruskal was born in New York City. He attended the University of Chicago and received his doctorate in mathematics from New York University in 1952.
        At Princeton, Dr. Kruskal was named a professor of astrophysical sciences in 1961. He was a former chairman of the university's program in applied mathematics and retired as a professor of mathematics in 1989. He then moved to Rutgers, where he was appointed a professor of mathematics and continued to work until his death.
        For his work on solitons, Dr. Kruskal received the National Medal of Science in 1993.
        Dr. Kruskal is survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Laura Lashinsky. The couple lived in Princeton.
        He is also survived by a daughter, Karen of Brookline, Mass.; two sons, Kerry, of Taos, N.M., and Clyde, a computer scientist, of University Park, Md.; a brother, Joseph Kruskal, a mathematician, of Maplewood, N.J.; a sister, Rosaly Evnine of Jerusalem; and five grandchildren.
      