
        Liz Renay, a boisterous, buxom cult film actress who worked as a stripper, wrote several books and got a little too close to some mobsters in the late 1950s, leading to a three-year prison term, died last Monday near her home in Las Vegas. She was 80.
        The cause was internal bleeding, said her son, Johnny McLain.
        In her prime -- at 5-foot-7, with measurements of 40-26-36 and blond hair that her son said had probably started out as auburn -- Ms. Renay appeared in 18 sexploitation movies, among them ''The Thrill Killers'' (1964), ''Lady Godiva Rides'' (1969) and ''Blackenstein'' (1973).
        But she is perhaps best known for her starring role in the 1977 John Waters fairy-tale melodrama ''Desperate Living,'' about a politically corrupt town called Mortville where everyone lives outside of conventional society. Ms. Renay played Muffy St. Jacques, who kills her drug-tripping babysitter by smothering her in a bowl of dog food.
        In an interview on Friday, Mr. Waters said he had spoken to Ms. Renay two weeks ago. ''She was very much a glamour girl right up to the end,'' he said. ''She always played the glamorous Vegas showgirl type, no matter how old she was.''
        And she usually made a splash. In 1950 she was the subject of a five-page photo spread in Life magazine. In 1965 The Saturday Evening Post ran a three-page profile of her, saying she could ''claim the prize as the girl who looks most like Marilyn Monroe.'' Ms. Renay wrote five books, two of them memoirs that made several best-seller lists: ''My Face for the World to See'' (1971) and ''My First 2,000 Men'' (1992).
        Pearl Elizabeth Dobbins (Liz Renay was her stage name) was born on April 14, 1926, in Mesa, Ariz. Her parents, William and Ada Philips Dobbins, were strict evangelical Christians. As a teenager, Ms. Renay ran away from home to Las Vegas, where she found work as a showgirl.
        By the time she was 18, Ms. Renay had married twice and had two children. Her son said his mother eventually married five more times. Besides her son, of Sierra Vista, Ariz., Ms. Renay is survived by a sister, Dorothy Hughes, and a brother, Gene, both of Mesa; five grandchildren; 12 great-grandchildren; and two great-great-grandchildren. Her daughter, Brenda, died in 1987.
        ''I modeled until I married my third husband, who was a real jerk,'' Ms. Renay said last September in an interview with Mao Magazine, which is distributed during New York's fashion weeks. ''I took a kid under each arm and walked out into the night with just $20 in my pocket. And that's when I became an exotic dancer.''
        In 1950 Ms. Renay was noticed by a reporter and photographer from Life magazine while she was working as an extra -- and doing everything she could to attract attention -- on a movie set in Phoenix. The result was the five-page photo display, titled ''Pearl's Big Moment.'' Soon after, she moved to New York, where she worked as a stripper.
        In a club near Broadway, she met Tony (Cappy) Coppola, the right-hand man of the mob boss Albert Anastasia. After rejecting Mr. Coppola's marriage proposal, she headed for Hollywood. There she befriended the mobster Mickey Cohen, who used his influence to get her several television roles.
        But on Oct. 25, 1957, while he was sitting in a barber's chair at the Park Sheraton Hotel in Manhattan, Mr. Anastasia was shot to death. As law-enforcement officials looked into that crime and other mob activities, Ms. Renay was called before grand juries on both coasts. She was asked, particularly, about her connection to Mr. Cohen and about money he had run through her checking account.
        In 1959 she was convicted of perjury and began serving 27 months of a three-year sentence at the Terminal Island federal prison in Los Angeles Harbor. While in prison, Ms. Renay wrote her first memoir, made 150 paintings and taught an art class. Soon after her release, she resumed her stripping career and was again cast in ribald movies.
        In 1974, at the height of the streaking craze, Ms. Renay was arrested after running naked down Hollywood Boulevard. A jury acquitted her.
        Last June she appeared at the 49th annual Striptease Reunion sponsored by the Exotic World Burlesque Museum in Las Vegas. According to Judy Thorburn's Las Vegas Round the Clock, a Web site that captures what doesn't stay in that raucous city, Ms. Renay, held aloft by four moderately clad young men, ''stole the show by being carried in like she was Cleopatra'' on a royal pillow.
        Correction:  February 5, 2007, Monday  An obituary last Monday about Liz Renay, a cult film actress, misstated the year she began serving prison time after a perjury conviction for lying about her connections to mobsters. She went to prison, as a result of a probation violation, in 1961, not 1959. The obituary also misstated the year that her daughter, Brenda, died. It was 1982, not 1987.
      