
        Bud Delp, the Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who saddled the brilliant colt Spectacular Bid, the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness in 1979, died last Friday in Ellicott City, Md. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, the Maryland Jockey Club said.
        In his 44 years as a head trainer, based in Maryland, Delp had 3,674 winners, ninth on the career list. He won about $41 million in purses and captured stakes races with 70 horses.
        Delp won training titles in Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, Illinois, Florida and Louisiana. He won an Eclipse Award as the nation's leading trainer in 1980 and was inducted into the racing Hall of Fame at Saratoga Springs, N.Y., in 2002.
        During the 1960s and '70s, Delp was among the Big Four of Maryland trainers, together with King Leatherbury, John Tammaro and Richard Dutrow. But he had never been a presence in the nation's most prestigious races.
        That changed when Delp took charge of the charcoal gray Spectacular Bid, bought for $37,000 as a yearling by Harry Meyerhoff of Hawksworth Farm in Maryland. Delp selected Ron Franklin, a teenager, as Spectacular Bid's jockey, and rocketed with him into the spotlight.
        Spectacular Bid won seven of nine starts as a 2-year-old. He captured the 1979 Kentucky Derby and the Preakness with ease, and when Delp saddled him for the Belmont Stakes, he was primed to become the 12th Triple Crown winner in history.
        Delp was supremely confident. ''Winning a horse race is never a formality,'' Delp said when Spectacular Bid arrived at Belmont, ''but there's no way he can lose the Belmont Stakes unless he runs into some terribly bad luck.''
        Spectacular Bid did run into bad luck, the way Delp told it.
        Franklin, 19, sent the colt to the lead briefly in the backstretch, but Spectacular Bid faded and finished third in the mile-and-a-half Belmont, the Triple Crown finale, behind Coastal and Golden Act.
        Two days later, Delp said that on the morning of the Belmont, Spectacular Bid went lame when he stepped on a large safety pin that dropped from a leg bandage to the straw of his stall and lodged in his left front hoof. Delp said he removed the pin and suggested that while Spectacular Bid appeared sound, the mishap might have hampered him.
        Delp did not criticize the ride given Spectacular Bid, but the inexperienced Franklin might have prompted the colt too early.
        Two weeks after the Belmont, Delp replaced Franklin with Willie Shoemaker, and Spectacular Bid went on to win all nine of his starts as a 4-year-old before being retired with 26 victories in 30 races and honors as a champion at ages 2, 3 and 4.
        A native of Creswell, Md., Grover Greer Delp, known as Bud since childhood, began working at tracks as a teenager. He saddled his first winner in 1962. Crafty Bear, his last entry, finished third in a stakes race Monday at Laurel Park in Maryland.
        Delp is survived by his wife, Regina; his sons Cleve, Doug and Gerald; a daughter, Pajeen; and two grandchildren.
        In fall 1980, as Spectacular Bid's retirement neared, Delp reflected on his champion thoroughbred and on his own career.
        ''I'm no better trainer now than I was 10 years ago, and that's a damn good one,'' Delp told The New York Times. ''When Bid heads for Kentucky this winter, I won't shed a tear. I'll say, 'Good luck, Daddy,' and I'll bring him a carrot once a year. I did my job. I'll just get right back into the action.''
      