
        Jack E. Myers, a molecular biologist who not only researched algae as a food source that could be grown in space but also made science comprehensible to youngsters as an editor of Highlights for Children magazine, died Dec. 28 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 93.
        The cause was cancer, his nephew Fred Myers said.
        An expert on photosynthesis, phototropism (the movement of plants toward or away from light) and particularly the physiology of algae, Professor Myers taught at the University of Texas from 1941 to 1980, but conducted research as an emeritus professor until 1999.
        In 1998, Professor Myers won a Founders Award from the American Society for Gravitational and Space Biology for his work on the potential of algae, essentially plants with no roots, stems or leaves, as food that could be grown on space vehicles.
        Kenneth A. Souza, president of the society and a former NASA senior scientist, called Professor Myers ''one of the pioneers'' in using algae to convert ''the carbon dioxide that our space crews would exhale and, in the presence of light and water, create food and oxygen.''
        That research grew out of a more down-to-earth problem. A 1953 article in The New York Times cited Professor Myers's work in producing a pound of Chlorella -- a species of algae -- in a water solution that filled just a quarter-inch space between two, three-foot glass tubes, one inserted inside the other.
        Pointing out that algae was then being advocated as a part of the solution to world hunger, the article said, ''Theoretically, 55,000 pounds of protein can be harvested from a single acre of Chlorella -- more than 60 times the annual output of an acre of soybeans.''
        Professor Myers wrote more than 100 papers for scientific journals. But he also wrote for children, including books like ''What Makes Popcorn Pop?'' (1991) and ''What Happened to the Mammoths?'' (2000), published by Boyds Mills Press, a family-owned company.
        From 1958 until his death, Professor Myers was the science editor of Highlights, a general interest magazine for children started by his parents, Garry and Caroline C. Myers, in 1946. The magazine has a circulation of about two million.
        One of the problems Professor Myers faced as an editor was finding scientists whose writing would fascinate children. The hundreds of articles that he assigned touched on subjects like black holes and comets, frogs croaking to warn of predators and how the Maya and Aztecs made rubber balls.
        Jack Edgar Myers was born on July 10, 1913, in Boyds Mills, Pa. He graduated from Juniata College in 1933, received a master's degree from Montana State University in 1935 and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1939.
        Professor Myers is survived by four daughters, Shirley Wendlandt, of Mullin, Tex.; Jacquelyn Leonard, of Lakeway, Tex.; Linda Anderson, of Ashland, Ore.; and Kathleen Holland, of Spicewood, Tex.; 10 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren. His wife of 69 years, Evelyn De Turck Myers, died in 1997.
        Part of Professor Myers's job at Highlights was to answer as many as 400 letters a year from children asking questions like why human skin wrinkles in water and the difference between frogs and toads. Disparaging the teaching of science as a collection of data, he once said, ''When it becomes a bunch of facts, it is sterile and rather unexciting.''
      