
        Curt Dempster, a founder and the artistic director of the Ensemble Studio Theater, a New York institution that has served as an incubator for thousands of new American plays, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Greenwich Village. He was 71.
        David Gersten, a spokesman for the theater, said the cause had not yet been determined.
        For 36 years, Mr. Dempster's Ensemble Studio Theater worked with the city's -- and country's -- best playwrights, developing more than 6,000 new works. Among the plays that were developed at the theater were Christopher Durang's ''Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You'' and Shirley Lauro's ''Open Admissions.''
        The theater survived even as other nonprofit theaters began dying out and artistic directors had to put as much creativity into finding money as into presenting plays.
        But Mr. Dempster tenaciously and pugnaciously kept his theater afloat financially and preserved it as a place for serious new work. Such a staunch advocate of the American play was Mr. Dempster that, at a 1987 symposium on Broadway and American playwrights, he proposed a five-year boycott of all foreign plays.
        Under Mr. Dempster's direction, the theater, which he used to describe as a ''gymnasium for playwrights,'' produced almost 250 new works a season, many during a festival of new works in the fall called Octoberfest and its spring marathon of one-act plays, one of the few serious one-act play festivals in the country.
        Mr. Dempster insisted that the theater's top priority was to serve as a laboratory where artists could develop and produce new work.
        ''Theater people are an endangered species,'' Mr. Dempster said in a 1985 interview in The New York Times. ''This is one of the places where they can keep alive.''
        The theater's free but selective membership consists exclusively of theater artists, and includes writers like John Patrick Shanley, Richard Greenberg and David Mamet as well as directors, designers and actors like Ellen Barkin, William H. Macy and Richard Dreyfuss.
        Mr. Dempster was a sometime playwright himself and an active director; over the years he staged new works by, among others, Arthur Miller, Tennessee Williams, Shel Silverstein and Joyce Carol Oates.
        Frank Curtin Dempster was born on November 1, 1935, in Detroit. Moving to New York in the 1960's, he became a member of the Actors Studio, studying with Paul Mann. In 1965, he got his first serious acting job in Ulu Grosbard's Off-Broadway revival of the Arthur Miller play, ''A View From the Bridge,'' which starred Robert Duvall and Jon Voigt.
        But he was already planning to create a theater and in 1971, he and several other actors began renting out a neglected building on 549 West 52nd Street, where the Ensemble Studio Theater still stands, after 36 years.
        Mr. Dempster's marriage ended in divorce; he left no immediate survivors.
      