
        C. Harry Falk, the chief executive and president of the New York Board of Trade, died Wednesday. He was 66 and lived in Rockland County in New York.
        The exchange announced his death but did not disclose a cause.
        Mr. Falk was named chief executive and president of the exchange in 2003. He had been associated with the Board of Trade and its predecessor organizations since 1970. He became the chairman of the exchange's board in 2000 and helped guide it after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
        When the World Trade Center was bombed in 1993, the exchange was at 4 World Trade Center and it was forced to close for two weeks. After the bombing, the exchange began looking for a backup site and, in 1996, it secured space in Long Island City, Queens, at a cost of $300,000 a year.
        Some questioned the expense. But after the 2001 attacks destroyed the exchange's offices, still at 4 World Trade Center, its traders shifted to the backup operation. It was the only financial exchange to lose its trading floor in the attacks, but because of the backup site, it was the first to reopen.
        Mr. Falk was long associated with sugar, one of the many commodities that are traded on the exchange, which opened in 1870 as the New York Cotton Exchange. It is a floor-based exchange with open-outcry trading.
        Mr. Falk grew up in Middle Village, Queens. In 1958, while still a teenager, he began working as a clerk for Czarnikow-Rionda, a sugar broker. The company's Cuban assets were nationalized after Fidel Castro took power the next year, so it began to trade sugar from other Caribbean islands. Mr. Falk rose to become a partner in the firm.
        In 1982, he moved to Richco Sugar, and two years later to the Louis Dreyfus Corporation.
        Mr. Falk became a member of the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in 1970 and later became its chairman. During his tenure, in 1997, the exchange began a process that led to its merger in 2004 with the New York Cotton Exchange to form the New York Board of Trade. It trades commodities like cotton, ethanol, orange juice and sugar, as well as currency, index futures and options.
        At the time of the merger, Mr. Falk said, ''While it is somewhat sad to see both the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange and the New York Cotton Exchange disappear and become simply a part of our history, we must move forward and embrace change in a manner which contributes to the vitality and expansion of our markets.''
        Last September, Mr. Falk helped engineer the merger of the New York Board of Trade and the all-electronic International Continental Exchange, a deal valued at $1 billion. The merger preserved the open-outcry trading, but it also brought electronic trading to the exchange.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan; 5 children; and 12 grandchildren.
      