
        The Rev. Robert F. Drinan, the first Roman Catholic priest to become a voting member of Congress, and the first congressman to call for the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 86.
        The cause was pneumonia and congestive heart failure, said a spokesman for Georgetown University, where Father Drinan had taught at the law school for the last 26 years.
        The career of Father Drinan, a Jesuit, included work as a human rights advocate, as dean of Boston College Law School and as an author of 12 books. But it was in electoral politics, and particularly his fiery opposition to the Vietnam War, that he gained his greatest visibility.
        He maintained that a priest should be involved in secular pursuits as a way of promoting a more just and compassionate society. He was inspired, he once said, by Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker Movement, which she co-founded. And though he never pledged to ignore church dictates while in office, he did ignore Catholic teaching in his support for federal financing of birth control and abortion.
        In 1980, when he was in his fifth two-year term representing his Massachusetts district and planning to run for a sixth, Pope John Paul II ordered him to quit Congress. The Vatican said that it was belatedly enforcing a provision of canon law forbidding priests to hold elective office and that the order applied to all. Father Drinan said he would not even consider resigning from the priesthood to continue a re-election race he was almost certain to win.
        ''As a person of faith,'' he said, ''I must believe there is work for me to do which somehow will be more important than the work I am required to leave.''
        He began teaching constitutional law and other subjects at Georgetown University Law Center.
        There was only partial precedent to Father Drinan's election to the House in 1970. Another Catholic priest, the Rev. Gabriel Richard, had served in Congress in 1823-25, but only as a nonvoting delegate from the Michigan Territory. (A third priest, the Rev. Robert John Cornell of Wisconsin, was elected to the House four years after Father Drinan, and served two terms, until an unsuccessful run for re-election in 1978.)
        Father Drinan, a Democrat, won over the voters of his district in his very first race despite indications in the polls that a third were uneasy about his mix of religion and politics, and that Catholics were most concerned. But he hardly evaded the issue, even after election: he said Mass each day and wore his clerical garb at the Capitol, jovially claiming that he had no other suits.
        He won office on his passionate opposition to the war; worked successfully to help eliminate the House Internal Security Committee, previously long known as the Committee on Un-American Activities; fought against the arms race; and crossed himself before denouncing President Nixon on the House floor as ''a fascist war criminal.'' The president returned the favor by placing him on the administration's enemies list.
        On July 31, 1973, Father Drinan introduced the first measure to impeach the president, not charging any crimes related to the Watergate scandal, but because of the secret bombing of Cambodia without Congressional approval.
        Some House Democrats had by then begun laying the groundwork for an impeachment case based on Watergate, and did not welcome Father Drinan's initiative. They believed that if a vote to impeach was defeated, members might not back another one.
        Representative Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., a Massachusetts Democrat who was then House majority leader, later wrote in his memoirs that while Father Drinan's case had seemed good, ''he damn near blew it.'' In any event, Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, did not act on the Drinan resolution.
        Robert Frederick Drinan was born on Nov. 15, 1920, in Boston, graduated from Boston College, entered the Society of Jesus and studied at Weston College in Massachusetts, where one of his classmates was Daniel Berrigan, who would gain fame as a radical Jesuit peace activist.
        Father Drinan earned a master's degree from Boston College, two law degrees from Georgetown and a doctorate in theology from Gregorian University in Rome. He returned to Boston College, where he was dean of the law school for 13 years, then briefly served as vice president and provost before his election to Congress in 1970.
        In that race, Father Drinan defeated Representative Philip J. Philbin, who had held his seat since 1942, in the Democratic primary and again in the general election, when Mr. Philbin ran as an independent. Father Drinan's campaign manager was John Kerry, still 14 years away from winning election to the first of what have become four terms in the Senate.
        One of the Drinan campaign posters in that race proclaimed, ''Father Knows Best.'' (''Vote for Drinan, or Go to Hell'' was reluctantly dropped.) After his election, supporters rather liked the slogan ''Our father who art in Congress.''
      