
        Seymour Martin Lipset, who ignored family pressure to be a dentist and instead became a pre-eminent sociologist, political scientist and incisive theorist on American uniqueness, died on Dec. 31 in Arlington, Va. He was 84.
        The cause was a stroke, his wife, Sydnee, said.
        Mr. Lipset's convictions were shaped early, in the cauldron of leftist politics in New York City in the 1930s, a time when his poor immigrant family urged him to study dentistry in order to take over his uncle's lucrative practice. Instead, as a young Trotskyist at City College, he became fascinated with the question of why the United States never had a major socialist party.
        As he metamorphosed from political partisan to social scientist, his quest for an answer to that question -- as well as the many others that logically followed -- resulted in dozens of books and hundreds of articles. He became known for his argument that America's ideology of individualism precluded socialism in the European form.
        Francis Fukuyama, the political philosopher, wrote in 1997 in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Lipset's insights into ways that America was different from other nations made him ''the most thoughtful contemporary authority on American exceptionalism.''
        Martin Walker, a British journalist writing in The Washington Post's Book World in 1996, suggested that Mr. Lipset addressed ''really interesting questions'' that seldom occurred to other Americans. Among them: ''Why you exhibit almost Iranian levels of religiosity, why Canada is so different, and why you hate turning out to vote but so enjoy joining voluntary organizations.''
        Ultimately, he became a leading expert in democracy, social stratification, modernization, public opinion, the sociology of intellectual life and many other subjects. He abandoned his socialist ideology in favor of rigorous intellectual methodology, much of which he developed.
        He became active in the conservative wing of the Democratic Party and was one of the first intellectuals to be called a neoconservative. His involvement in Jewish affairs increased as he aged: he was president of the Faculty Advisory Committee of the United Jewish Appeal and other Jewish groups.
        Mr. Lipset's career was geographic as well as intellectual. He occupied prestigious academic positions at Columbia, Berkeley, Harvard, Stanford, George Mason, the Hoover Institution and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
        He was the only person to be president of both the American Sociological Association and the American Political Science Association.
        His ''Political Man: The Social Bases of Politics'' (1960) became a basic text in political sociology, sold 400,000 copies, was translated into 20 languages and was a finalist for the National Book Award.
        In 1987, Michael Rogin, the political scientist, called Mr. Lipset ''the most eminent living American political sociologist.''
        Mr. Lipset's father, a printer, and his mother, a seamstress, came to New York from czarist Russia. They moved to the Bronx six months after Seymour was born in Harlem on March 18, 1922. After one year at the City College of New York, he dropped his interest in dentistry in favor of history -- ''fortunately for my prospective clients,'' he wrote in the Annual Review of Sociology in 1996.
        In that article, he wrote about meeting Gen. Colin L. Powell, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, at a cocktail party and telling the general that they had both been born in Harlem, grown up in the Bronx and graduated from City College.
        ''I did not add what was more relevant, that he joined the Reserve Officers Training Corps, while I joined the youth section of Young People's Socialist League, Fourth International,'' wrote Mr. Lipset, who remained a socialist through graduate school.
        Mr. Lipset studied with students who would also become great figures in intellectual circles, including Irving Howe, Daniel Bell, Nathan Glazer and Irving Kristol.
        Mr. Lipset's first wife, the former Elsie Braun, died in 1987. His survivors include their sons, David, of St. Paul, Minn.; and Daniel, of Cambridge, Mass.; their daughter, Carola Lipset, of Palo Alto, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
        When his surviving wife, the former Sydnee Guyer, asked which of his intellectual heroes' portraits he wanted for his office, Mr. Lipset mentioned Carl Hubbell, the New York Giants' star pitcher, before Alexis de Tocqueville, to whom his work often referred.
        For the last years of his life, his wife said, Mr. Lipset was thought to be unable to speak because of the effects of an earlier stroke, at least until a visitor mispronounced the name of Jacques Derrida, the influential French philosopher. Astonishingly, Mr. Lipset corrected him.
      