
        Daniel Stern, who sifted through his careers in jazz and symphonic music, advertising, movies and academia for psychic grist for the bittersweet, tightly crafted novels and short stories that were his crowning achievement, died Wednesday in Houston. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of heart surgery, Bill Hughes, his literary executor, said. Mr. Stern lived in Houston, Manhattan and Sag Harbor, N.Y.
        Mr. Stern's real life seemed almost fictional. He played the cello with Charlie Parker and the Indianapolis Symphony. He was a vice president at Warner Brothers Studios, CBS and the McCann-Erickson advertising firm. For a time, he was in charge of cultural programming at the 92nd Street Y. At the time of his death, he was Cullen Distinguished Professor of English at the University of Houston.
        His only education after high school was a workshop on fiction writing that he took at what was then the New School for Social Research when he was in his 20s. He enrolled because the G.I. bill paid the $75 tuition and he could sell the books. The class broke into applause when he read his first story. He started to write every day, even as he worked at other jobs.
        After nine novels, many of them well reviewed, Mr. Stern found his métier in the short story, into which he distilled his fascination with form and a perspective where satire often fused with mercy. Harold Bloom, the literary critic, called the stories ''a cognitive music that is Stern's own eloquent lament for existence.''
        In one, he tells of a middle-aged widower's pilgrimage to Los Angeles to find an actress from a pornographic film made decades ago. In another, a man recognizes the cello he sold to finance his legal education and a new life, and becomes involved with the woman who plays it.
        In three books with titles inspired by Nathaniel Hawthorne -- ''Twice Told Tales: Stories'' (1989); ''Twice Upon a Time'' (1992); and ''One Day's Perfect Weather: More Twice Told Tales'' (1999) -- he created what some called a new kind of short story. He took a work by a writer like Hemingway, Frost, Borges or Yeats and wove his own tales in and out of the strands of the famous predecessor.
        Mr. Stern's novels drew praise for cleverness. ''The Suicide Academy'' (1968) imagines a world flecked with institutions where people can commit suicide. An administrator of one of them grapples with the morality of the government's offer of more funds if suicides increase. Reviewing the book in The Village Voice, Anaïs Nin cited Mr. Stern's ability to ''toss all the facts into space, to reverse their chronological monotony, upset established curriculums.''
        Mr. Stern won the Rosenthal Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the International Prix du Souvenir, two O. Henry Awards and two Pushcart Prizes, among other honors.
        He was born on Jan. 18, 1928, and grew up on Manhattan's Lower East Side and in the Bronx.
        In an interview with Mr. Hughes, he said his earliest ''creative'' writing was copying poems by Shelley or Keats and sending them to girls with his own name on them.
        He graduated from the High School of Music and Art and played with the seminal jazz saxophonist Charlie Parker. After playing for the Indianapolis Symphony, he successfully auditioned for the Houston Symphony, but returned to New York instead. He served briefly in the Army during World War II.
        At McCann-Erickson he wrote jingles for Buick and other companies. For Warner, he promoted the movie ''Woodstock'' with the line, ''Nobody who was there will ever be the same. Be there.''
        Much of Mr. Stern's early work reflected his friendships with the artistic elite of the 1950s, including the composer John Cage, the painter Jackson Pollock and Lionel Trilling, the literary critic.
        At a party at Mr. Trilling's house he met Gloria Branfman, the widow of one of Mr. Trilling's students, who became his wife. She survives him, along with his son, Eric, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Stern's last piece of published work was a short story in The Kenyon Review last spring. Called ''The Advancer,'' it tells of a dastardly scheme by an obituary writer to secretly charge people for writing positive advance obituaries about them and bad ones about their enemies.
        ''I can never read an obituary again with innocent eyes,'' the narrator says.
      