
        Robert Noortman, a gregarious, risk-taking dealer who was a major force in the market for old master and French Impressionist paintings, died on Sunday at his castle in the Belgian countryside, just over the border from his base in Maastricht, the Netherlands. He was 60.
        Caldwell Douglas, the London publicist who represented his gallery in Maastricht, said that Mr. Noortman had been suffering from pancreatic cancer but had died of a heart attack.
        A competitive dealer who was often seen bidding steadily at auctions in New York and London while chomping on an unlit cigar, Mr. Noortman made headlines in December 2000 when he paid $28.6 million for Rembrandt's 1632 ''Portrait of a Lady, Aged 62,'' at Christie's in London. It was a record price for a Rembrandt.
        Three months later, he exhibited it at the European Fine Art Fair in Maastricht with an asking price of $36.5 million; it was eventually sold to a collector in the United States for an undisclosed price.
        In January 2001 he snapped up Rembrandt's 1633 ''Portrait of a Bearded Man, Bust Length in a Red Doublet'' for $12.6 million at Christie's in New York. Last year he offered it at the European Fine Art Fair for $32.4 million but did not make a sale. Though a wily negotiator, he stunned the art world last June by selling his business, Noortman Master Paintings, for $56.5 million to Sotheby's. Under the terms of the deal, the auction house assumed about $26 million of debt from the gallery and Mr. Noortman received about 3.2 percent of Sotheby's stock. He also became a member of Sotheby's international advisory board.
        In a statement, Sotheby's said this week that the gallery would survive under the leadership of Mr. Noortman's son William and Jeanette Gerritsma, the longtime gallery manager of Noortman Master Paintings. Sotheby's said it was assessing what impact Mr. Noortman's death would have on the gallery's finances.
        The son of a policeman, Mr. Noortman was born on March 5, 1946, in Heemstede, the Netherlands. After leaving school at 16, he often recounted, he managed to talk his way into a series of odd jobs, selling everything from refrigerators to cars.
        He opened his first gallery in Hulsberg, near Maastricht, in 1968. In 1975 he helped found Pictura, the forerunner to the European Fine Art Fair in Maastricht, and was chairman of the latter for a decade. He was also a philanthropist, supporting the Rijksmuseum and Mauritshuis in the Netherlands as well as the National Gallery in London, where there is a Noortman Room of Dutch cabinet paintings.
        Beyond his passion for art, he was a licensed pilot and in 1989 was cited in the Guinness Book of Records for flying into and out of 12 European Community countries in one day.
        Mr. Noortman is survived by his third wife, Angelique, and seven children.
      