
        Iwao Takamoto, the artist who created the mystery-solving Great Dane, Scooby-Doo, among many other indelible cartoon characters, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, suffered at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He was in the hospital for another ailment, said a spokesman for Warner Brothers Animation, where Mr. Takamoto was vice president of special projects.
        Mr. Takamoto, who learned his trade in a Japanese-American internment camp, was hired by the Walt Disney Studios on the basis of two dime-store notebooks full of sketches. He went on to work on animated films like ''Lady and the Tramp'' and ''101 Dalmations.'' In 1973, he directed, with Charles A. Nichols, the animated film ''Charlotte's Web.''
        At the Hanna-Barbera studio, Mr. Takamoto spent four decades creating television cartoons. Besides ''Scooby-Doo,'' he created the parasol-waving, sports car-driving Penelope Pitstop, as well as the Jetsons' family dog Astro and Atom Ant of ''The Secret Squirrel Show.''
        Iwao Takamoto was born in 1925 to Japanese immigrants and graduated at 15 from Thomas Jefferson High School in Los Angeles. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, he and his family were sent to the Manzanar Internment Camp in the California desert. He learned sketching techniques from two internees who were art directors at film studios.
        After his release, Mr. Takamoto contacted Disney Studios, knowing little about the animation industry but remembering the name from his Manzanar tutors. Asked to bring in a portfolio of his work, he was perplexed. ''I had no portfolio,'' he told Animation Blast magazine in a 1999 interview. ''I didn't have much of an idea what a portfolio truly was.''
        Mr. Takamoto spent the weekend before his interview sketching anything he could think of -- ''from knights to cowboys,'' he said -- and filled up his notebooks. The results landed him a job as an assistant illustrator at Disney, where he worked from 1947 to 1961.
        Mr. Takamoto moved to the Hanna-Barbera studios in 1961. Television work was different, but he proved equally adept at it.
        ''When he started at Disney, on animated films, he had more time and more freedom,'' said Scott Awley, who worked as a character designer for Mr. Takamoto on the 1990s series ''What's New, Scooby-Doo?'' and ''Krypto the Superdog.'' ''When you do a Saturday morning cartoon, you have to cut out every nonessential line because pencil mileage is money.''
        ''Scooby-Doo, Where Are You?,'' the original Scooby-Doo series, was partly the brainchild of Fred Silverman, then the director of daytime programming at CBS. Mr. Silverman wanted a highly plotted cartoon echoing the 40s radio show ''I Love a Mystery.'' Mr. Takamoto drew the original sketches for four human characters and a dog (widely believed to be named after Frank Sinatra's scat-style singing in ''Strangers in the Night'').
        The dog's physiognomy was Mr. Takamoto's contribution.
        ''There was a lady that bred Great Danes'' at Hanna-Barbera, Mr. Takamoto said in a recent conversation with Cartoon Network Studios employees. ''She showed me some pictures and talked about the important points of a Great Dane -- like a straight back, straight legs, small chin and such. I decided to go the opposite and give him a hump back, bowed legs, big chin and such. Even his color is wrong.''
        What is right about Scooby-Doo is his fearful courage. Like the Cowardly Lion in ''The Wizard of Oz,'' Scooby-Doo is always terrified, but always willing to get to the bottom of the mystery of the day with his four human companions, Fred, Daphne, the brainy Velma and the perpetually famished and clueless Shaggy, Scooby-Doo's human counterpart (originally voiced by Casey Kasem).
        In various incarnations ''Scooby-Doo'' has been on television almost nonstop since it began in 1969 and has spawned many spinoffs, including a live-action movie featuring a computer-generated Scooby in 2002 and a sequel in 2004.
        Michael Mallory, author of the book ''Hanna-Barbera Cartoons,'' said: ''Iwao gave us Scooby-Doo. Without him it would have been a little Airedale, and the show would have lasted one season.''
        Mr. Takamoto is survived by his wife, Barbara; his son, Michael; and his stepdaughter, Leslie.
        Beyond inventing indelible cartoon characters, he was known in the industry as a fixer. ''Iwao's hand wasn't always the first hand that touched a character,'' Mr. Awley said, but it was almost always the last hand.
        Correction:  January 15, 2007, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about Iwao Takamoto, the artist who created Scooby-Doo and other cartoon characters, in some copies misstated the day that he died. It was Monday, not last Tuesday.
      