
        Bob Zawoluk, an all-American center at St. John's in the early 1950s who became the university's longtime career scoring leader, and then endured a troubled life far from the basketball spotlight, died Jan. 9 in Spring Valley, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Barbara said.
        At a time when St. John's, City College and New York University drew big crowds at Madison Square Garden -- the Knicks were secondary to the college game -- Zawoluk was among the stars of New York basketball.
        He led St. John's into the National Invitation Tournament at the Garden in all three of his seasons in an era when the N.I.T. was a prestigious event. St. John's made its only appearance in the N.C.A.A. tournament final in 1952, Zawoluk's senior season, losing to Kansas.
        Zawoluk, at 6 feet 6 1/2 inches, averaged 20.1 points a game and scored 1,826 points, a St. John's career record eclipsed in 1984 by Chris Mullin, who played four seasons. Zawoluk set the single-game scoring record for St. John's with 56 points against St. Peter's in 1950.
        ''Bob was one of the first of the truly mobile big men in basketball,'' his former teammate Al McGuire, later a well-known college coach and broadcaster, told The New York Times in 1987. ''He had a sweet, sweeping hook shot but could also score facing the hoop.''
        Zawoluk, nicknamed Zeke, played one season with the N.B.A.'s Indianapolis Olympians and two seasons with the Philadelphia Warriors before his career was cut short by a knee injury.
        In addition to his daughter Barbara, he is survived by his wife, Alice, three other daughters and a sister.
        Zawoluk was born and reared in Brooklyn, the son of a policeman. While he was attending St. Francis Prep, his father was struck and killed by a sanitation truck while on traffic duty.
        After his playing days, Zawoluk experienced further travails. He held sales jobs, but his life unraveled amid alcoholism, drug addiction and mental illness.
        In October 1986, after being fired from his job as an auto salesman, he burned several of the dealership cars and rammed his car into 19 dealership autos, the police said. He pleaded guilty to attempted arson and criminal mischief and was sentenced by a judge on Long Island to probation on condition he receive alcoholism treatment.
        Zawoluk later served two years in a New York State prison for armed robbery, arising from his carrying a knife during a shoplifting incident. He said he was addicted to crack cocaine at the time.
        He sought to reconnect with the basketball world in 1998 when he asked Lehman College in the Bronx to hire him as an assistant coach. He got the job, and it seemed he might be on the road to rebuilding his life.
        ''He related well to the players and coaches and told us about St. John's and City College back in the day,'' Martin Zwiren, the Lehman athletic director, recalled in a telephone interview after Zawoluk's death. But Zawoluk was asked to leave after about a month, Zwiren said, because of ''inappropriate'' phone calls he made to members of the athletic department.
        When he was hired by Lehman, Zawoluk expressed gratitude. ''When I say my prayers, I think about the others I saw on the street -- the prostitutes, the shoplifters,'' he told George Vecsey of The Times. ''A lot of them didn't make it. I've been blessed.''
        Correction:  January 23, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday aboutBob Zawoluk, a St. John's basketball star, misstated the number of points he scored in his record-setting game against St. Peter's in 1950. It was 65 points, not 56.
      