
        Roberta Wohlstetter, a military and foreign policy analyst whose work on the intelligence failures before the attack on Pearl Harbor was cited by the 9/11 commission, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 94.
        The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter, Joan Wohlstetter-Hall.
        ''What does Pearl Harbor tell us about the possibility of a surprise attack today, with possible consequences of an even greater and perhaps more fatal magnitude?'' Mrs. Wohlstetter asked 45 years ago in her book ''Pearl Harbor: Warning and Decision'' (Stanford University Press).
        The question became relevant again as the Sept. 11 commission began investigating the missed opportunities that left the United States vulnerable to the attacks by Al Qaeda. The panel's report found major intelligence failures and analyzed the difficulties in gathering data.
        Referring to hindsight, the report quoted Mrs. Wohlstetter's book: ''After the event, of course, a signal is always crystal clear; we can now see what disaster it was signaling since the disaster has occurred. Before the event, it is obscure and pregnant with conflicting meanings.''
        Mrs. Wohlstetter, an analyst with the RAND Corporation, the policy research group, from 1948 to 1965, examined 15 signals that in retrospect clearly seemed to foretell the Japanese attack on Dec. 7, 1941.
        Yet, she wrote: ''It is hard to keep in mind that there were many plausible alternative hypotheses that might have explained this set of signals. Most of the partisan reviews of the Pearl Harbor material forget these alternative explanations.''
        That assessment has been cited by scholars as an argument to rebut critics of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, including some Republicans in the 1944 election, who said Roosevelt knew that the attack was coming but did nothing to stop it to rally the country behind entering World War II.
        In 1963, Columbia University gave her the Bancroft Prize for American history. In 1985, Mrs. Wohlstetter and her husband, Albert, an analyst of nuclear proliferation at RAND, received the Medal of Freedom from President Ronald Reagan ''for their great contributions to the security of the United States.''
        ''Her analysis of the problems of terrorism, intelligence and warning and, with Albert, the problem of nuclear deterrence, broke new ground,'' Mr. Reagan said at the ceremony.
        In the 1970s, the Wohlstetters studied the Persian Gulf for the Defense Department, noting the risks for Europe if oil supplies were blocked. They also analyzed the spread of nuclear weapons, prompting changes in American laws on exporting nuclear material and technology.
        Roberta Morgan Wohlstetter was born on Aug. 22, 1912, in Duluth, Minn., the daughter of Edmund and Elsie Morgan Morris. Her father was a Harvard law professor.
        Her husband, whom she married in 1939, died in 1997. Besides her daughter, Joan, of Manhattan, surviving are a brother, Edmund S. Morgan of New Haven, a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian; and a stepgranddaughter.
        Mrs. Wohlstetter graduated from Vassar in 1933 and received a master's in psychology at Columbia in 1936 and a master's in comparative literature at Radcliffe in 1937.
        Mrs. Wohlstetter's daughter said it was her mother's interest in criminal psychology and fictional characters' decision making that led to her work on public policy, intelligence gathering and terrorism.
        ''If the study of Pearl Harbor has anything to offer for the future, it is this,'' Mrs. Wohlstetter wrote in her book: ''We have to accept the fact of uncertainty and live with it. No magic, in code or otherwise, will provide certainty.''
        Correction:  January 18, 2007, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Roberta Wohlstetter, a military and foreign policy analyst, misstated the surname of her mother and reversed the middle name and surname of her father. Her mother was Elsie Morgan, not Morris. Her father was Edmund Morris Morgan -- not Morgan Morris.
      