
        Judith P. Vladeck, a prominent labor lawyer and ardent advocate of women's rights in the workplace, particularly on college campuses, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        Her death was confirmed by her son Bruce.
        Proud of her courtroom contentiousness, Ms. Vladeck brought a combination of showmanship and detailed analysis of salary histories and job performance to her cases. She took on potent opponents like major Wall Street investment firms, the Union Carbide Corporation and the City University of New York -- and usually won, or settled for millions.
        A chain-smoker known for working 11-hour days well into her 70s, Ms. Vladeck was a partner in Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, the Manhattan law firm that her husband, Stephen, helped start in 1948 and she joined in 1957.
        As the women's movement gained footing, Ms. Vladeck turned her attention to workplace discrimination. In 1975, she represented Val Winsey, a professor at Pace University who had been denied tenure. When the university's lawyers argued that Professor Winsey was a troublemaker who devoted too much of her time to challenging the system, Ms. Vladeck responded, ''The only way women are tolerated is if they are supine, silent and submissive.''
        Those words were reflected in the New York State Court of Appeals decision that overturned a lower court ruling against the professor. ''Those who fight for rights are often perceived as troublesome,'' the appeals court said, ''but the law does not require people to be supine.'' Professor Winsey was reinstated with back pay and received her tenure.
        In the City University case, filed in 1973, Ms. Vladeck traced salary histories for more than 5,000 female faculty members. The judge ruled that the university had discriminated for 15 years.
        When The New York Times asked Ms. Vladeck in 1983 whether she thought the multimillion-dollar settlement had been fair, she gave an answer that appeared as the paper's quotation of the day: ''If we were to calculate the real back pay in this case, they'd have to take Brooklyn College and City College and auction them off to pay for the damages.''
        Ms. Vladeck did not represent only women. In the Union Carbide case, in 1983, she argued successfully that John Whittlesley, a labor lawyer, should not have been forced to retire at 65.
        Asked if she had ever represented an employer, Ms. Vladeck once told a reporter: ''Are you kidding? Never.''
        Judith Pomarlen Vladeck was born in Norfolk, Va., on Aug. 1, 1923, the daughter of Joseph and Ida Pomarlen. Her father was a newspaper distributor; her mother was a business manager for a labor union.
        Besides her son Bruce, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, David, of Washington; a daughter, Anne Vladeck, of Manhattan, who is a partner in the Vladeck law firm; and five grandchildren. Her husband died in 1979.
        Ms. Vladeck graduated from Hunter College in 1945 and received a law degree from Columbia University in 1947. In 2003, at a Columbia Law School ceremony where she received a Medal of Excellence, Ms. Vladeck referred to English common law, which until the 19th century made it a crime for a woman to be a ''common scold.'' She then said she did not object to being so identified.
      