
        Mendy Samstein, who left graduate school to put himself in the forefront of the fight for black voting rights in Mississippi, enduring bombings and beatings in the crucial summer of 1964, died yesterday at his home in New Lisbon, N.Y. He was 68.
        The cause was carcinoid cancer, his wife, Nancy Cooper, said.
        Mr. Samstein abandoned his pursuit of a doctorate in history to join the historic turmoil in the South and became known as an adept organizer and pull-no-punches speaker. He helped recruit and deploy the more than 800 college students, mainly white, who traveled from many states to rural Mississippi towns, mainly black, as part of the Mississippi Summer Project in 1964.
        He became a full-time organizer for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and Stokely Carmichael, who later became the group's chairman, called him ''one in a million.''
        In ''Ready for Revolution'' (2003), which Ekwueme Michael Thelwell helped write, Mr. Carmichael said volunteers like Mr. Samstein stopped being white ''except in the most superficial sense of the word.'' He explained that they, too, experienced white hatred.
        Mr. Samstein was one of nine committee workers in a house in McComb, Miss., on July 8, 1964, when three blasts ripped the house apart.
        Abbie Hoffman, the mischievous radical whom Mr. Samstein had known at Brandeis, was at home in Massachusetts watching the news when he saw his friend crawling from the rubble. ''It was then I decided to head South,'' Mr. Hoffman said, according to ''For the Hell of It: The Life and Times of Abbie Hoffman'' (1996), by Jonah Raskin.
        In August 1964, Mr. Samstein, then a field secretary for the committee, told The New York Times about problems in rural Mississippi and said one county, Amite, had been under ''a reign of terror.'' Policemen pulled him from his car at a stoplight to beat him, Mr. Samstein's wife said.
        Mr. Samstein went on to work with the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party's largely black delegation trying to supplant or join the all-white Mississippi delegation already chosen for the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City in 1964. His radicalism flared when Bayard Rustin, the legendary civil rights organizer, suggested compromise. According to Taylor Branch in ''Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-65'' (1998), Mr. Samstein jumped up and shouted, ''You're a traitor, Bayard!''
        The failure of the Freedom Democrats, the slowed pace of civil rights progress, and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee's own metamorphosis into a black nationalist group demoralized Mr. Samstein.
        ''I curse this country every day of my life because it made me hate it, and I never wanted to,'' he said in an interview with Jack Newfield in ''A Prophetic Minority'' (1966).
        Jehudah Menachem Mendel Samstein was born on July 20, 1938, in Manhattan. His father, a kosher butcher became ill, switched to real estate investing and died when Mendy was 10.
        Mendy Samstein's education began in a yeshiva and continued at Stuyvesant High School. He majored in European history at Brandeis and earned a master's degree in the subject from Cornell. He was a history Ph.D. student at the University of Chicago when he was offered a teaching job at Morehouse College in Atlanta. He grabbed it to be near the civil rights movement.
        His wife said his ardor came from his deep feelings about the Holocaust. ''He did not want to permit that kind of destruction of a race to happen again,'' Ms. Cooper said.
        Bob Moses, who led a federation of civil rights groups in Mississippi, invited him to the state, where he worked with Allard K. Lowenstein, later a New York congressman, to recruit and train students from Stanford and Yale for a mock election in October 1963. The ''election'' did not count, but 80,000 ''voters'' vividly demonstrated blacks' electoral clout.
        Mr. Samstein met Nancy Cooper the same weekend the bodies of three slain civil rights workers were found. She had been a classmate of one, Andrew Goodman, at Queens College, and followed him south to teach in the so-called freedom schools.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Samstein is survived by his sons, Ivan, of Chicago, and Ben, of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.
        After his civil rights days, Mr. Samstein organized against the Vietnam War, taught school, was a psychoanalyst and ran a summer camp, among other things. In 2000, he joined civil rights veterans to protest the handling of the presidential vote in Florida.
        He also helped Mr. Moses with his Algebra Project, an effort to bring mathematical literacy to the poor. In a recent communication to Mr. Samstein's family, Mr. Moses noted that it had not taken multitudes to bring change to Mississippi in the 1960s.
        ''It took a few people willing to risk everything,'' he said.
      