
        Elkan R. Blout, a biochemist and top science administrator at Harvard whose career included color film developing and sharpening research standards at the Food and Drug Administration, died Dec. 20 in Boston. He was 87.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        In the 1950s, Dr. Blout pursued parallel but distinct paths at Harvard and at the Polaroid Corporation, where he was a vice president and general manager of research.
        At Polaroid, he led the team that worked out the color developing process for the company's signature instant film, creating new photographic dyes and developing agents and discovering ways to make them in quantity. William J. McCune Jr., a former chief executive of Polaroid, called their work ''an outstanding accomplishment.''
        At the same time, Dr. Blout was embarking on his biochemical research at Harvard, studying peptides and polypeptides, which are building blocks in assembling the body's proteins. In 1962, he left industry to devote his energy to synthesizing peptides in the laboratory and examining their structures.
        His use of various optical means, including spectroscopy, to examine peptides made him ''a pioneer in developing the tools and techniques for understanding the structures that proteins adopt,'' said Barbara Brodsky, a professor of biochemistry at Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in Piscataway, N.J., and a former student of Dr. Blout at Harvard.
        From 1978 to 1989, Dr. Blout was dean for academic affairs at the Harvard School of Public Health. In the 1990s he became a senior adviser for science at the F.D.A., where he reviewed standards, helped plan for the agency's future staff and laboratory needs and coordinated research conducted by its scientists. He retired from Harvard in 1991.
        Elkan Rogers Blout was born in Manhattan. After graduating from Princeton, he earned a doctorate in chemistry from Columbia in 1942.
        Dr. Blout was a former chairman of Harvard's department of biological chemistry and of its department of environmental science and physiology. In 1990, he was awarded a National Medal of Science.
        Dr. Blout is survived by his wife, the former Gail Ferris. The couple lived in Cambridge, Mass., and Cuttyhunk Island, Mass. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by two sons, James, of Concord, Mass., and William, of Lexington, Mass.; two daughters, Susan Merry Lausch of Chicago, and Darya of Cambridge; 10 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
      