
        James B. Farley, an executive who moved seamlessly between the worlds of management consulting and corporate America, died on Saturday at his home in Gulf Stream, Fla. He was 76.
        Mr. Farley died after a prolonged illness, according to Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting firm that Mr. Farley led before he became head of what was then the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
        In many ways, Mr. Farley's career was the mirror image of the model prevalent in the 1980s. Corporate executives commonly ended their business days as consultants. And corporations, particularly insurance companies, normally promoted people up through the ranks.
        So in 1988, when Mutual Life, now called the MONY Group, chose Mr. Farley as its president, the move sent shock waves through the insurance industry. Mr. Farley fully understood the disbelieving reactions.
        ''Even going outside the company was a courageous decision for MONY's board,'' he said at the time. ''But going to a consultant? Whoever heard of such a thing?''
        Apparently, MONY was comfortable with its choice; the company kept him on its board for nine years after he retired as chairman and chief executive.
        James B. Farley was born on Nov. 1, 1930, and grew up in Pittsburgh. He worked his way through high school and college, and married his high school sweetheart, Mary Williams.
        After he graduated with a business degree from Duquesne University and did a stint in the Marine Corps, he went to work for U.S. Steel as an industrial engineer; while there, he got an M.B.A. from Case Western Reserve University.
        He met many of the outside consultants who were ubiquitous at the company in those days, and the sheer variety of their jobs appealed to him a lot more than his own. So in 1963, when he was 32, he left U.S. Steel for Booz Allen.
        He enjoyed variety for a decade. He traveled around the country, consulting on assignments as wildly disparate as the merger of the American and National football leagues, the breakup of AT&T and the turnaround of the Chrysler Corporation.
        But the same diversity of assignments that he enjoyed was undermining Booz Allen. The firm was offering a supermarket of consulting services when clients were seeking specialists. Booz Allen's finances -- and share price -- plunged, its president resigned and in 1973 Mr. Farley was asked to take over.
        He took Booz Allen private, focused it on a few consulting areas and introduced a collaborative management style to a firm that had always been run autocratically.
        By the time Mr. Farley left Booz Allen in 1988, the firm was back on its financial feet. He joined MONY as president and chief operating officer and was named chairman and chief executive a year later. He served as chairman until July 1993 and stayed on as a director until 2003.
        In addition to his wife of 54 years, Mr. Farley is survived by two sons, James J. of Wilmington, N.C., and J. Scott of Ridgefield, Conn.; two daughters, Mickey Farley-Austin of Weston, Conn., and Connie O'Connor of Buffalo Grove, Ill.; eight grandchildren; and two sisters, Bernie Carroll and Roseanne Sansoni.
      