
        Ruthanna Boris, a versatile dancer and choreographer who was the first American ballerina to be a star of one of the prestigious Ballets Russes troupes of the 40's, died Friday at her home in El Cerrito, Calif. She was 88.
        The cause was cancer, said Amanda Vaill, a dance writer and friend.
        Her range as a ballerina with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo from 1942 to 1950 extended from classics like ''Swan Lake,'' ''The Nutcracker'' and ''Les Sylphides'' to George Balanchine's elegant abstractions and ''Frankie and Johnny,'' a bawdy bit of Americana. Two of her own ballets, ''Cirque de Deux'' and ''Cakewalk,'' are often revived by regional troupes.
        In 1947 John Martin, then chief dance critic of The New York Times, marveled at her ability to immerse herself in every role. ''No role to her is merely a vehicle for the display of her talents,'' he wrote; ''her talents rather become the vehicle for publishing the role's intent.''
        Born in Brooklyn, Ms. Boris studied at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School and was among the first students at Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein's School of American Ballet when it opened in 1934. Before joining the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, she danced in the New York debut season of the American Ballet, Balanchine's first American company, in 1935; with Ballet Caravan, a group Kirstein established to promote new American choreography, in 1936 and 1937; and with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet from 1937 to 1942.
        Although the Ballet Russe employed American dancers, Ms. Boris was the first American woman to achieve stardom there and often had Leon Danielian, a brilliant young American dancer, as her partner. She married another Ballet Russe dancer, Frank Hobi, who died in 1967.
        She choreographed ''Cirque de Deux'' in 1947. This spoof of traditional virtuosity equated ballet stars with circus performers. Mr. Martin noted that ''Miss Boris set out to convey her amusement to the rest of us, and succeeded in starting us all to chuckling heartily.''
        Her next creation, in 1948, had an unconventional genesis. When the Houbigant perfume company planned to reintroduce Quelques Fleurs, a scent unavailable during World War II, its officials offered to sponsor a Ballet Russe premiere. It could be on any subject yet had to be titled ''Quelques Fleurs.'' Although initially hesitant, Ms. Boris choreographed a tale about a haughty contessa who tries to seduce a young man with wondrous perfumes. Because he finally prefers the perfumes to the contessa, the ballet slyly suggests that cosmetics cannot disguise lack of true beauty. Reviewing the piece, Mr. Martin acknowledged its ''story troubles,'' yet listed its virtues as ''style, flavor, texture, musicianship, wit.''
        Ms. Boris left the Ballet Russe at the end of the 1949-50 season, when she sensed a decline in its standards. In 1951 she choreographed ''Dog Show,'' a miniature ballet in ''Two on the Aisle,'' a Broadway revue starring Dolores Gray and Bert Lahr. The ballet featured the French ballerina Colette Marchand as a French poodle.
        Ms. Boris then began choreographing for the New York City Ballet. Her first effort, ''Cakewalk,'' a tribute to minstrel shows, was an instant hit. That ballet and ''Cirque de Deux'' remain Ms. Boris's most frequently staged productions; a revival of ''Cakewalk'' by the Joffrey Ballet in 1966 became especially popular.
        Subsequent works for City Ballet -- ''Bayou,'' ''Kaleidoscope'' (both 1952) and ''Will o' the Wisp''(1953) -- received only lukewarm reviews. Ms. Boris and Mr. Hobi led their own touring group from 1954 to 1956 and directed the Royal Winnipeg Ballet in 1956 and 1957 but resigned because of policy differences with the company's board.
        Ms. Boris's dancing career ended prematurely in the 1950s because of hip ailments that required several operations. She increasingly devoted herself to teaching and was on the dance faculty of the University of Washington in Seattle from 1965 to 1983.
        She occasionally returned to choreography. One of her unusual later productions was ''Ragtime,'' a work to Scott Joplin for the Houston Ballet in 1975 that depicted events in a Texas brothel during a hurricane and flood. Reviewing it for the Houston Post, Carl Cunningham praised it for combining wit with ''a touch of sentimentality.''
        Having developed an interest in movement as a therapeutic tool to promote psychological well-being, Ms. Boris studied psychology and therapy at the University of Washington, where she was named an adjunct professor in 1982, and was on the advisory board of the Seattle Psychoanalytic Institute from 1975 to 1982 before moving to the San Francisco Bay Area. She became president and executive director of the Center for Dance Development and Research in Albany, Calif., in 1986, when she also was president of the California chapter of the American Dance Therapy Association.
        She is survived by a brother, Paul Boris, of The Villages, Fla.
      