
        James C. Weeks, a former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Regional Media Group and a former publisher of The Press Democrat of Santa Rosa, died Monday in New York. He was 64 and had homes in Atlanta and Aspen, Colo.
        Mr. Weeks died unexpectedly on a trip to New York, said Mary Jacobus, the current president and chief operating officer of the Regional Media Group.
        The cause of death was not announced.
        Mr. Weeks was publisher in Santa Rosa for two years after the paper was bought by The New York Times Company in 1985. He oversaw construction of a new printing plant in Rohnert Park, allowing the paper to print in color for the first time. The paper also had major circulation increases during his tenure.
        While at The Press, he also directed The Santa Barbara News-Press, which was also owned by the Times Company. He left in 1988 to become vice president for operations at the newspaper group in Atlanta. He was promoted to president and chief operating officer of the group before retiring in 1999.
        Mr. Weeks was a graduate of the University of Florida's journalism program and later earned a master's degree in marketing there. He began his career in 1964 as a retail advertising salesman for The Gainesville Sun. He rose to management positions and later became head of acquisitions for The New York Times Affiliated Newspaper Group.
        Before taking over at The Press Democrat, he was publisher of The Star-News in Wilmington, N.C.
        He is survived by his wife, Toni, and two children, Todd and Traci.
        Correction:  January 19, 2007, Friday  An obituary on Jan. 11 by The New York Times Regional Newspapers about James C. Weeks, a former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Regional Media Group, incorrectly described his postgraduate education. He was a graduate of the Program for Management Development at the Harvard Business School -- not a recipient of a master's degree in marketing from the University of Florida, where he earned his undergraduate degree. The obituary also misspelled the given name of his wife. She is Toney Weeks, not Toni.
      