
        Dr. Lyman C. Wynne, a psychiatrist and psychologist whose research helped lay the foundation for family-based therapies for mental disorders, died on Jan. 17 in Bethesda, Md. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter Christine Wynne said.
        Dr. Wynne's studies of families coping with mental illness, particularly schizophrenia, prompted therapists to include family members as allies in treatment plans when possible, and also clarified the understanding of how genetics influences mental disorders' progression.
        His research was ''essential to debunking the blaming notion that a child's early family environment, particularly the mother, causes schizophrenia,'' said Dr. Eric D. Caine, chairman of the psychiatry department at the University of Rochester, where Dr. Wynne was a professor for more than 20 years.
        In recent years Dr. Wynne, with Dr. Pekka Tienari, Dr. Karl-Erik Wahlberg and others, published findings from a landmark study of Finnish adoptees at risk of developing schizophrenia, demonstrating that stressful social environments can increase the likelihood that genetically vulnerable people will develop the disorder.
        ''His main contribution was to use social environment as a support and help in treatment of severe disorders,'' said Susan H. McDaniel, director of the Wynne Center for Family Research, based at the University of Rochester and founded and financed by Dr. Wynne's family.
        Dr. Wynne was born Lyman Carroll Wind in Tyler, Minn., on Sept. 17, 1923, to a struggling farming couple. He moved to Duluth at 12 and lived with relatives through high school.
        He won a scholarship to Harvard and graduated with a medical degree in psychiatry. While at Harvard he changed his surname to Wynne, and married Adele Rogerson. He later earned a doctorate in social psychology, and worked during the 1950s and '60s at the National Institute of Mental Health, in Bethesda.
        Dr. Wynne trained as a psychoanalyst during his time at the institute, and his work -- together with that of other theorists working independently -- helped establish family therapy approaches.
        Dr. Wynne is survived by five children, Christine Wynne of Lake Oswego, Ore.; Randy Wynne of Tampa, Fla.; Sara Wynne of Oakland, Calif.; Barry Wind of Bethesda; and Jonathan Wynne of Brooklyn; a sister, Nadine Tornquist of Minneapolis; and five grandchildren.
        He had his own family therapy practice for much of his career, and his wife joined him as a therapist when their children were grown. She died in 2003.
      