
        Ian Richardson, the Scottish film, television and stage actor who was a major figure at the Royal Shakespeare Company before gaining international fame for his television portrayal of a deliciously villainous politician, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 72.
        His agent, Jean Diamond, said the cause had not yet been determined.
        With his sharp features and honeyed accent, Mr. Richardson was almost destined to play the seductive villain Francis Urquhart in the series ''House of Cards'' and its two sequels. But he first became known as a versatile stage actor, and as a founding member of the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1960.
        He made his first impact on the American theater scene as Jean-Paul Marat in Peter Brook's groundbreaking production of Peter Weiss's ''Marat/Sade'' when it came to Broadway in 1965. Stanley Kauffmann, writing in The New York Times, called his performance ''outstanding.'' Mr. Richardson believed the role of the madman playing Marat also made him the first actor to expose his hind parts on a Broadway stage.
        Mr. Richardson remained with the company for the next decade, winning praise for his portrayals of the two Richards as well as Berowne in ''Love's Labour's Lost.'' Other roles included Prospero, Angelo and Cassius, the conniving senator for whom Mr. Richardson once said he had a soft spot.
        In 1974, in the middle of a brief nervous breakdown, Mr. Richardson left the company. Two years later he came to Broadway to play Henry Higgins in a revival of ''My Fair Lady,'' for which he won a Tony Award. He also appeared on Broadway in 1981 in Edward Albee's adaptation of Nabokov's ''Lolita.''
        By then he had already been moving to television, playing a double agent in an adaptation of John le Carré's ''Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'' and Sherlock Holmes in two different television movies.
        But it was his portrayal of the alluringly evil Francis Urquhart, a scheming, icily sardonic Tory member of Parliament, that finally made him a household name in Britain and a celebrity abroad. The character of Urquhart, whom Mr. Richardson compared to Richard III, was introduced in 1990 in the BBC series ''House of Cards,'' an adaptation of a book by Michael Dobbs. Two sequels followed: ''To Play the King'' in 1994 and ''The Final Cut'' in 1995. By that time, Mr. Richardson, a British superstar, was being described in newspapers as ''the Voice.''
        Urquhart's slippery catchphrase, ''You might say that -- I couldn't possibly comment,'' became so popular that both John Major and Tony Blair have reportedly said it jokingly on occasion.
        Mr. Richardson had recently returned to the stage for several productions. In 2002 he was in an international tour of ''The Hollow Crown,'' with Diana Rigg and Derek Jacobi, and in 2005 he starred in a revival of ''The Creeper'' on London's West End.
        Americans might also know him from commercials, as the man who asked, out of the window of a Rolls-Royce, for Grey Poupon mustard.
        Ian William Richardson was born on April 7, 1934, in Edinburgh, to a homemaker and a biscuit factory manager. He worked as a radio announcer in Libya for the British National Service, where he first received diction lessons, before going to the Glasgow College of Dramatic Art.
        At 25, while playing Hamlet at the Birmingham Repertory Theater Company, he was seen by Peter Hall, who asked him to join a troupe he was starting. That troupe became the Royal Shakespeare Company.
        During a read-through of ''The Merchant of Venice,'' his first production there, Mr. Richardson, who played the Prince of Aragon, was introduced to an actress named Maroussia Frank. They married the next year. In addition to Ms. Frank, Mr. Richardson's survivors include their two sons, Jeremy and Miles; several grandchildren; and two sisters.
        To the end, Mr. Richardson was conflicted about the fame Urquhart brought him.
        ''Beforehand I was an anonymous jobbing actor known only to the cognoscenti,'' he said in a 2000 interview with The Scotsman. ''Now, when my wife wants to go to the supermarket, I have to stand at the side entrance, looking furtive in a hat and sunglasses. Is that any way for an actor to have to behave?''
        Correction:  February 13, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Ian Richardson, the stage and screen actor, misidentified the cast member in the 1976 Broadway revival of ''My Fair Lady'' who won a Tony Award for best actor. Although Mr. Richardson was indeed nominated for his portrayal of Henry Higgins, it was his co-star, George Rose, who won for the role of Alfred P. Doolittle.
      