
        Willye B. White, who willed her way out of the Mississippi Delta cotton fields and became the first American track and field athlete to compete in five Olympics, died yesterday in Chicago. She was 67.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sarah Armantrout, a longtime friend.
        White competed in every Olympics from 1956 through 1972, and only an injury kept her off the 1976 team. She won a silver medal in the long jump in 1956, when she was a 16-year-old high school sophomore, and another in the 4x100-meter relay in 1964.
        She was America's best female long jumper for almost two decades, with a career best of 21 feet 6 inches. She won nine consecutive United States outdoor championships, set seven American records and, by her count, competed in 150 nations. At 5 feet 4 inches and 130 pounds, she could perform weightlifting squats with more than 380 pounds.
        White was born Dec. 31, 1939, in Money, Miss., and grew up in Greenwood. She was brought up by her grandparents, she said, because her father had contended that with her red hair, green eyes and light brown skin, she was not his child. (On his deathbed, he said she was.)
        ''I started chopping cotton when I was 10,'' she told Sports Illustrated in 1975. ''You could chop for a whole week and never finish a row. I got paid $2.50 a day for 12 hours. The only way I could get any recognition was through sports. Sports gave me an escape. It kept me off the street.''
        White started track as a 10-year-old sprinter. She turned to the long jump because, she said, ''For every 500 sprinters, there were two long jumpers.'' She later entered Tennessee State University, where the track coach was the renowned Ed Temple. Another future Olympian, the sprinter Wilma Rudolph, was a teammate. But White left after six months because, as she told The New York Times in 1993, ''Coach Temple wanted to control every aspect of your life, and I was too much of a free spirit for that.'' In 1960, she moved to Chicago and, in 1976, earned a degree in public health administration from Chicago State University.
        She started her career as a practical nurse. Then she spent 37 years working in city government as a health administrator, a director of recreational services and a creator of sports programs for young girls in housing projects. In 1991, she founded the Willye White Foundation to help children develop self-esteem.
        In 1989, she was one of four candidates seeking three vice-presidential openings on the United States Olympic Committee, but was not elected. George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees, was among the elected candidates. In 2003, she ran for the Chicago City Council and lost.
        White was married in 1961 and divorced in 1964. She is survived by a brother and a sister.
        She was elected to 11 halls of fame, including the International Women's Sports, the National Track and Field, and Black Sports. But she said her most significant accomplishment was leaving the cotton fields. In 1993, she told Runner's World: ''Athletics was my flight to freedom: freedom from prejudice, freedom from illiteracy, freedom from bias. It was my acceptance in the world.''
      