
        Burt Beagle, an accountant who never met a sports statistic he did not love, a passion that put him on the sidelines of New York City high school and college sporting events for many years, died Monday in the Bronx. He was 73.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, a longtime friend, Mitchell Martinez, said.
        By some accounts, half the statistics of New York City amateur sports were in his head or in his crowded Bronx apartment. By his own estimate, he was the official scorer for more than 6,000 baseball, football and basketball games, ranging from youth league to college.
        In 1968, he became official scorer for the men's basketball team at Baruch College in Manhattan, where he also coached baseball. In that 1968-69 season, he began a streak as an official scorer in which he did not miss a Baruch basketball game -- men's or women's, home or away -- until last November, a stretch of 930 consecutive games.
        The streak -- which Baruch officials call a collegiate record -- ended Nov. 21 when Mr. Beagle was too ill to attend a Baruch men's home game against Yeshiva University.
        Mr. Beagle scored every football game at Mount St. Michael's High School in the Bronx since 1974. Zak Ivkovic, the commissioner of the City University of New York Athletic Conference, said that Mr. Beagle scored every men's playoff basketball game in the conference, beginning with its Christmas tournament days in 1966 -- all this during an accountant's tax season.
        Since 1974, Mr. Beagle had been the media relations director for the Catholic High Schools Athletic Association. He was inducted into the New York State Basketball Coaches Hall of Fame in Glens Falls last year.
        Mr. Beagle said he had no other hobbies. He devoted his evenings, weekends and holidays to scorekeeping -- hundreds of games each year and often more than a dozen a week -- always as a volunteer. He customarily worked three games on Saturdays. He did not drive and relied on the subway or public buses, and he was mugged several times returning from late games.
        Mr. Beagle, a lifelong resident of the Bronx, graduated in 1956 from Baruch and became an accountant. But by his admission, his considerable aptitude for percentages and subtotals made him more comfortable with the ledger lines of a scorer's book than with a tax form.
        He carried an overstuffed valise of team schedules and standings to his regular spot at the scorer's table, where he sat dressed in his usual zebra-striped official's shirt, poring over his stat book. He kept handwritten lists of players and hieroglyphic statistical entries to record every basket, assist, steal and rebound.
        Although sports scoring is universally done by computer now, Mr. Beagle eschewed computers as less thorough and more fallible than a human with a talent for numbers and a thorough knowledge of sports. Many coaches agreed, after having their computerized tallies of game statistics corrected by Mr. Beagle and his book.
        He said he had developed the ability to create a freeze-frame in his mind of key plays.
        ''I can't write them down while the action is going on, so I photograph the whole sequence in my mind, then I write it down,'' he told The New York Times in 2005. Mr. Martinez, the coach of the varsity baseball team at Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx and a women's basketball assistant at Concordia College in Westchester, said, ''The man didn't need a computer because he had one in his head.''
        John Neves, Baruch's sports information director, said: ''You'd give him a bunch of stat sheets and newspaper stories, and he would just jump to life. Burt looked at a stat sheet like a doctor with a chart. He'd hold it up, read it and know in an instant if it was done right or wrong. He'd say, 'John, this one's not adding up, it's off by two rebounds.' ''
        Mr. Beagle never married or had children.
        ''He said he had no family but that all his coaches and players were his family,'' Rabbi Charles P. Rabinowitz said at Mr. Beagle's funeral. Rabbi Rabinowitz is a chaplain at Calvary Hospital, where Mr. Beagle died.
        ''When I introduced myself, he looked at me and said, 'You know, Rabbi, I watched your dad play basketball at City College in the 1940s,' and he remembered some little facts from the game, even though my father was not even a starting player. Burt said he was taken to City College basketball games as a boy. He just laughed and said, 'I have a lot of facts in my head.' ''
      