
        Ralph Penza, an award-winning television news reporter and anchor for WNBC-TV in New York City, died early Friday after a long illness, a spokeswoman for NBC said. Mr. Penza was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Penza, a senior correspondent for WNBC-TV, was best known for his aggressive reporting style and investigative news series, which often carried provocative titles like ''Killer Fish'' and ''Dangerous Doctors.''
        He was also known for his ''walking stand-ups,'' in which the camera would follow him as he moved around a scene, rather than standing in one spot.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Penza's breaking news reports and television news series earned him prestigious awards, including six Emmys and two Gold Typewriter awards from the New York Press Club.
        Mr. Penza began his career while in high school, when he went to work as a copy boy for Walter Winchell, the gossip columnist and broadcaster.
        After studying radio and television at New York University, Mr. Penza went to work as a news director for several small television stations in Indiana and then Georgia.
        In 1961, he landed a job at WABC-TV in New York as a news writer and producer for the evening newscast.
        Later, Mr. Penza moved to WCBS-TV in New York, where he was promoted to news reporter.
        In that role, he became one of the station's most popular on-air personalities.
        In 1972, as part of an effort to improve its sagging ratings, the station named Mr. Penza the co-anchor with Jim Jensen of its 11 p.m. newscasts. According to a New York Times article at the time, it was an open secret that Channel 2 had conducted taped public samplings of at least a half-dozen news reporters from New York and elsewhere before choosing Mr. Penza.
        In October 1980, Mr. Penza joined WNBC as a reporter and weekend anchor.
        In a series that earned him an Emmy in 2000, he went overseas to cover Pope John Paul II's visit to the Holy Land, filing reports from Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Bethlehem and other cities along the way.
        Mr. Penza was as comfortable and fearless reporting live in front of a mosque in Israel with bullets whizzing past his head as he was back in New York chasing down scam artists and criminals, said a longtime producer of his, Diane Drummey Marino.
        ''I used to say he was like the Dalmatian in the firehouse,'' she said late Friday. ''He lived to report the news and to let people know what was going on so they could make decisions that were informed. He was a Brooklyn guy who loved New York and never thought of himself as above his viewers.''
        Mr. Penza was a member of the Inner Circle, an organization of political reporters, and was the first television journalist to be named its president.
        He is survived by his wife, Lucille, and two children.
      