
        Gordon S. Macklin, who guided the growth of one of the world's largest securities trading systems, the computerized service known as Nasdaq, died Tuesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 78.
        The cause was a stroke, his assistant, Anna Fukara, told Bloomberg News.
        More than three decades ago, Mr. Macklin helped usher in the era of electronic trading of securities when he oversaw the development of the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations system, or the Nasdaq.
        Instead of working on the floor of a traditional stock exchange, brokers nationwide were able to trade through Nasdaq, a computerized system that allowed them to display the prices they were seeking to get for a share in a particular company or the price they were willing to pay for it. Sales could then be executed at the push of a button.
        Initially, only over-the-counter stock, shares in typically smaller companies, including some with suspect financial track records, were traded on Nasdaq. But over time, the ranks of companies traded on the exchange grew to include powerhouses like Apple, Microsoft and Starbucks.
        Before he became president of the National Association of Securities Dealers in 1970, Mr. Macklin had previously worked for two decades at a brokerage firm in Cleveland.
        A year later, the N.A.S.D., a self-regulatory body that oversees the practices of registered securities dealers, started Nasdaq. In time, the newcomer became a formidable rival to both the New York and American Stock Exchanges.
        In 1987, Mr. Macklin resigned as president of N.A.S.D. and Nasdaq and became chairman and co-chief executive of the investment firm Hambrecht & Quist. He resigned that position five years later.
        In 2005, Mr. Macklin was among 11 former directors of the telecommunications company WorldCom who agreed to pay a combined $20 million to settle a lawsuit brought against them by Alan G. Hevesi, then the New York State comptroller. Mr. Hevesi had sued on behalf of investors who claimed they had been misled about the financial health of WorldCom, which was led by Bernard J. Ebbers, who was sentenced in 2005 to 25 years in prison for his part in the accounting fraud.
        Mr. Macklin, who also lived in Bethesda, Md., is survived by four children, Gordon III, Nancy J. Hook and Lisa Ann Stargel, all of Mount Airy, Md., and Gary, of Punta Gorda, Fla.; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      