
        Whitney Balliett, a jazz critic who in more than 40 years at The New Yorker magazine encouraged readers to hear jazz through his vividly metaphorical writing, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Will Balliett.
        In describing jazz during its years of greatest development and ferment, Mr. Balliett used comparatively little technical vocabulary; he was after a sensual rendering. Of the trumpeter Roy Eldridge, he wrote: ''His tone at slow tempos still supplicates and enfolds and at fast speeds hums and threatens.'' The trumpeter Doc Cheatham's solos, on the other hand, were ''a succession of lines, steps, curves, parabolas, angles and elevations.''
        Mr. Balliett did something similar in describing appearances. Of Teddy Wilson: ''His figure, once thin as a stamp, has thickened, and his hawklike profile has become a series of arcs and spheres.'' And of the drummer Big Sid Catlett, who inspired some of his finest writing, he said: ''Everything was in proportion: the massive shoulders, the long arms and giant, tapering fingers, the cannonball fists, the barn-door chest and the tidy waist, his big feet, and the columnar neck.''
        Born in Manhattan and raised in Glen Head and Glen Cove on Long Island, Mr. Balliett attended Phillips Exeter Academy, where he learned to played drums in a band he summed up as ''baggy Dixieland''; he played summer gigs at a Center Island yacht club.
        He was drafted into the Army in 1946, interrupting his freshman year at Cornell. He returned to finish his degree in 1951, then went straight to a job at The New Yorker, where he was hired by Katherine White, a fiction editor.
        Mr. Balliett (pronounced BAL-ee-et) worked at various production and editorial jobs, eventually writing unsigned ''Talk of the Town'' pieces, until it came to the attention of the magazine's editor, William Shawn, that he was writing about jazz for The Saturday Review magazine. Shawn gave him his own column in 1957.
        Unlike some of his colleagues, Mr. Balliett did not submerge himself in the musicians' world; he had a family life to balance against nights at the Hickory House, the Village Vanguard and the Cookery. In addition to his son Will, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Nancy Balliett; his daughters Julie Rose of Accord, N.Y., and Blue Balliett of Chicago; two other sons, Whitney Jr., of Natick, Mass., and James, of Erie, Colo.; a brother, Fargo Balliett Jr. of Ithaca, N.Y.; a sister, Deyan Sheldon; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Balliett's name was on more than 550 articles in The New Yorker from 1957 to 2001, with many more unsigned. (He wrote about books for the magazine as a sideline, and also covered Off Broadway theater for it in 1960 and 1961.)
        Influenced by Joseph Mitchell, his basic prose style was formed by his late 20s; changes came mostly as a matter of journalistic format. In the late 1950s he started bringing interviews into his work, and in 1962 he started writing long profiles of musicians, letting their voices tell much of the story.
        Mr. Balliett did not use a tape recorder. Instead, he took notes furiously over several days of conversations and played them back as long, extravagant solos; this new emphasis on long-form quotation forced him to concentrate musical descriptions into highly poetic, cumulative glimpses of a musician's sound.
        It was a style that had some detractors, including the English critic Max Harrison, who felt that it was not serious or specific enough for its subject.
        ''Music is transparent and bodiless and evanescent,'' Mr. Balliett wrote in defense of his approach. He pointed out, on more than one occasion, that jazz improvisation itself could not be perfectly notated, anyway.
        Mr. Balliett's work survives through his 17 published collections of essays. In the introduction to his first book, ''The Sound of Surprise,'' published in 1959, he wrote:
        ''It's a compliment to jazz that nine-tenths of the voluminous writing about it is bad, for the best forms often attract the most unbalanced admiration. At the same time, it is remarkable that so fragile a music has withstood such truckloads of enthusiasm.''
        He added, in part, ''Jazz, after all, is a highly personal, lightweight form -- like poetry, it is an art of surprise -- that, shaken down, amounts to the blues, some unique vocal and instrumental sounds, and the limited, elusive genius of improvisation.''
        Correction:  February 6, 2007, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Whitney Balliett, the longtime jazz critic for The New Yorker, misstated the date of his death. It was Thursday, not Friday.
      