
        Barbara McNair, a cabaret singer, actress and television personality of the 1960s who was noted as much for her stunning appearance as for her versatile voice, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. She was 72.
        The cause was throat cancer, Ms. McNair's sister, Jacqueline Gaither, told The Associated Press yesterday.
        One of the few African-American television hosts of the period, Ms. McNair had her own syndicated variety series, ''The Barbara McNair Show,'' broadcast from 1969 to 1971. She made at least a half-dozen records, including several for the Motown label.
        If critics did not enshrine her in the top echelon of American popular singers, Ms. McNair, who continued performing until shortly before her death, nevertheless retained a devoted following. Reviewing one of her performances in The New York Times in 1982, John S. Wilson described Ms. McNair as ''a gorgeous looking woman with a warm, easy, communicative personality and a voice that can range from softly intense ballads to the edges of gospel, to crisp and rhythmic comedy or to a saloon singer's belt.'' He added: ''Her hour in the spotlight passes pleasantly and quickly. But when it is all over, one is not left with any sense of her identity.''
        Barbara Joan McNair was born on March 4, 1934 (some sources give the year as 1939), and reared in Racine, Wis., where she sang in church as a child. By the time she was a teenager, she dreamed of singing in nightclubs and pored over biographies of Sarah Vaughan and Billy Eckstine in the hope of discovering how they had managed to do just that.
        In the mid-1950s, after studying briefly at the Racine Conservatory and University of California, Los Angeles, Ms. McNair settled in New York, where she found work as a typist. Her break came when she sang at the Village Vanguard, which led to a role in the Broadway musical ''The Body Beautiful,'' which ran for two months in 1958.
        Her other Broadway credits include ''No Strings'' (1962), in which she replaced Diahann Carroll as the female lead, and a 1973 revival of ''The Pajama Game.''
        Ms. McNair also had roles in several films, among them ''If He Hollers, Let Him Go!'' (1968), and ''They Call Me MISTER Tibbs!'' (1970), a sequel to ''In the Heat of the Night,'' the last two starring Sidney Poitier. She made many television appearances on ''McMillan & Wife,'' ''The Mod Squad,'' ''General Hospital'' and other shows.
        Ms. McNair's career suffered after she and her husband, Richard Manzie, were charged in 1972 with heroin possession; she was later cleared of the charge.
        Ms. McNair was married four times and twice divorced; her third husband, Mr. Manzie, was found shot to death in 1976.
        In addition to her sister, Ms. Gaither, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blecka, The Associated Press said.
      