
        Lamar Lundy, a longtime defensive end for the Los Angeles Rams who in the 1960s was part of the Fearsome Foursome, one of the National Football League's most renowned defensive lines, died Saturday in Richmond, Ind. He was 71.
        Lundy's death was announced by the Community Family Funeral Home of Richmond. He had been in poor health for many years.
        A football and basketball star at Purdue, Lundy was 6 feet 7 inches and 250 pounds. He became an imposing presence at right end on the Fearsome Foursome, with Roosevelt Grier at right tackle and the Hall of Famers Deacon Jones at left end and Merlin Olsen at left tackle.
        Although the Rams had only one winning season from 1963 to 1966, when the Fearsome Foursome played as a unit, the linemen gained acclaim for stopping running backs and harassing quarterbacks.
        Lundy joined the Rams in 1957 and played mostly at tight end in his first few seasons. He was named to the Pro Bowl in 1959, switched to defensive end full time in the early 1960s and remained with the Rams through the 1969 season.
        ''He used those long, long arms to keep the offensive linemen away from him,'' Olsen told The Los Angeles Times. ''He was an extremely effective pass rusher.''
        Lundy provided emotional support to Jones when he joined the Rams in 1961.
        Having played at historically black South Carolina State, Jones found it difficult to deal with criticism in an integrated setting and considered quitting after being criticized at halftime of a game by the Rams' coach, Bob Waterfield. Lundy, who had been the first black player to receive a football scholarship at Purdue, persuaded Jones to persevere.
        ''It wasn't easy for me at that time to take a tongue-lashing from a white person,'' Jones told The Los Angeles Times in 1991. ''Lamar was right there as soon as Waterfield stopped cutting me. He was right there with coolness and calmness. If it had not been for him, I would have probably been out of it right there. I had one hell of a second half.''
        Lundy was found to have myasthenia gravis, a neuromuscular disease, soon after retiring and had also been treated for diabetes, prostate cancer and a heart problem. A native of Richmond, he broadcast high school football games there.
        He is survived by his sons, Lamar III, of Richmond, Ind., and Ronald, of Atlanta; his daughters, Vicki Wilbon, of Atlanta, Tara Lundy, of Longview, Tex., and Annie Carter, of Bellflower, Calif.; his brothers, Gerald, of Oakland, Calif., Kenneth, of Richmond, Calif., and Michael, of Marionville, Ill.; 19 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
        Lundy's fellow members of the Fearsome Foursome visited with him as he battled debilitating illnesses. ''What made us special was how we worked together,'' Lundy told Sports Illustrated in 2001. ''There was always a deep understanding among the four of us, something that keeps us so close today.''
      