
        Joseph Low, an illustrator who did absurdist covers for The New Yorker and won Caldecott honors for the children's book ''Mice Twice,'' died on Feb. 12 at his home in Edgartown, Mass., on Martha's Vineyard. He was 95.
        He died in his sleep of natural causes, said his daughter Damaris Botwick.
        In the 1950s Mr. Low was known for his expressively witty linear style, which challenged the prevailing trends of Rockwellian realism, yet was consistent with European comic surrealism. Using wild pen gestures he created glyphlike characters meant for both adult and child that were both sophisticated and accessible.
        The witty, at times enigmatic, covers he made for The New Yorker beginning in 1940 were based partly on drawings he had made of medieval stone and wood carvings he had found in Basque towns of northern Spain and southern France. For his later covers, the last appearing in 1980, he drew fanciful animals and scenes but avoided typical gags.
        Mr. Low freelanced for publishers and advertising agencies, and at times produced book jackets and record covers. In the 1940s, he acquired a vintage hand press from a defunct newspaper in West Virginia and set up his first printing shop; in 1960 he became proprietor of his own private press, Hill Press in Newtown, Conn., named after the road on which he lived. Working as the sole writer, editor, illustrator, platemaker, compositor, proofreader and pressman, he published limited editions of short stories and poetry, illustrated with his own wood and linoleum cuts. The first of these was titled ''Heads''  (1960). He was an expert in fine typefaces and elegant composition, also enjoying hand lettering, combining scripts and Roman letterforms.
        Mr. Low was born in Coraopolis, Pa., in 1911, but grew up in Chicago and attended the Chicago Art Institute. He spent many hours in the stacks at the nearby Newberry Library soaking up inspiration in its rich collection of illustrated books. (He recently donated an archive of his own work to that collection.)
        In 1937 he moved to New York to attend the Art Students League, where he studied with the German artist George Grosz. Mr. Grosz's expressionistic sensibility seemed to have touched aspects of Mr. Low's style, although his work was not as politically charged.
        As a student at the league he met Ruth Hull, whom he married in 1940. They worked on books together, including ''Mother Goose Riddle Rhyme.'' Mr. Low published Mrs. Low's ''St. John Backtime'' (1985), a history of the Caribbean Island of St. John, where, as sailing enthusiasts, they lived half of the year. Her book ''St. John Voices'' was ready to be printed when Mr. Low died; it will be published in 2008.
        Mr. Low's playful graphic style lent itself to children's picture books, which from the late '50s to nearly the end of his life made up a large portion of his output. ''Mice Twice,'' about a cat that invites a mouse to dinner and is surprised by the guest the mouse brings along, was named a Caldecott honor book in 1981. He also illustrated more than a dozen other books, including ''Aesop: L'Estrange'' (1964), ''A Learical Lexicon: From the Works of Edward Lear'' (1966), ''There Was a Wise Crow'' (1973), ''Boo to a Goose'' (1975), ''The Christmas Grump'' (1977), ''A Mad Wet Hen and Other Riddles'' (1992), and ''Beastly Riddles'' (1993).
        His wife died in 2006. In addition to Ms. Botwick, of New York City, he is survived by another daughter, Jenni Oliver of Edgartown, who has also done covers for The New Yorker, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  February 24, 2007, Saturday  An obituary on Tuesday about Joseph Low, an illustrator of magazine covers and children's books, omitted part of the name of the private press of which he became the proprietor in 1960. It was Eden Hill Press, not Hill Press.
      