
        Gordon Wright, a conductor who championed obscure composers and made music across the chilly climes of Alaska as founder of the Arctic Chamber Orchestra, was found dead on Wednesday on the porch of his cabin in Indian, Alaska. He was 72.
        His body was discovered after he failed to arrive at Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport to pick up a composer, said Mr. Wright's former wife, Inga-Lisa Wright. The cause of death had not been immediately determined, she said.
        Mr. Wright went to Alaska in 1969 as music director of the Fairbanks Symphony Orchestra. In 1989 he left that position and retired as a professor at the University of Alaska.
        During his tenure as music director, he took the Arctic Chamber Orchestra, an offshoot of the symphony, on tour to remote and musically bereft towns throughout the state, traveling on school buses, boats, seaplanes and even dog sleds. Concert dress sometimes included parkas.
        He conducted in Barrow, deep inside the Arctic Circle, and in Key West, Fla. Ms. Wright said he might have been the only person to lead performances in both the northernmost and southernmost locales in the country.
        The bearded Mr. Wright, who stood 6 foot 6, was also a hardy outdoorsman who camped, hiked and kayaked in the Alaskan wilds, sometimes in the company of bears.
        Mr. Wright was born in Brooklyn and attended the College of Wooster in Ohio. He received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin, where he started a chamber orchestra and ran an antiquarian music bookstore. He went on to study in Berlin and in Salzburg, Austria.
        Early in his career, he became fascinated with the music of Emil Nikolaus von Reznicek (1860-1945), a prolific late-Romantic German composer generally forgotten except for his effervescent ''Donna Diana'' Overture. That piece was used as the theme for the radio and television versions of ''Sergeant Preston of the Yukon,'' about the adventures of a Mountie.
        Mr. Wright said listening to the radio show had piqued his interest in Reznicek's other works, and he began hunting down and performing his music. This led to his creation of the Reznicek Society, which was dedicated to promoting worthy but lesser-known composers.
        ''If he could write a theme like that, I said to myself, how did his other music shape up?'' Mr. Wright said in a 1990 interview with The New York Times. ''So over the years I began to track down all of his scores I could find.''
        He is survived by his daughter, Karin Sturla; two sons, Charles and Daniel; and five grandchildren.
        The Anchorage Daily News said Mr. Wright's body was removed from his cabin by friends and state troopers in a pine coffin that he had bought years ago and used as a storage bench.
      