
        Ken Kennedy, a Rice University computer scientist whose software design work paved the way for the broad scientific and engineering use of modern supercomputers, died Wednesday in Houston. He was 61.
        The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Jade Boyd, a spokesman for the university.
        A member of the generation of researchers who were the first to have access to modern supercomputers, Mr. Kennedy spearheaded early work on software programs known as parallelizing compilers, systems that can automatically spread workloads among a large number of processors, vastly speeding calculations.
        Early computers were based on a single processor that would perform the steps of a software program sequentially. But in the 1970s and 1980s researchers began to look for ways to increase computing speed by harnessing tens, hundreds and even thousands of processors, in much the fashion that adding lanes to a freeway will allow more traffic to flow.
        The challenge that such systems presented was the need to create programming tools that would hide the interdependencies and complexity from the scientists and engineers who wanted to use the machines as problem-solving tools.
        ''These compilers made it possible for mere mortals to write advanced programs,'' said Edward Lazowska, the Bill and Melinda Gates professor of computer science at the University of Washington in Seattle. ''Ken was the No. 1 person in parallel compiling.'' (Parallel compilers are software programs that translate programmers' language-oriented instructions into numeric codes that control computer operation.)
        The software technology he developed has served as the foundation for successive generations of scientists and engineers who developed advanced simulations, including weather and climate prediction and the model of automobile collisions. Moreover, the fruits of his technology are now rapidly reaching broad consumer audiences both through the latest generations of personal computers and through videogame players, which now come equipped with parallel processors.
        The significance of the programming advances Mr. Kennedy made with a group of graduate students at Rice also translated directly into a new set of industrial tools that led to the emergence of the commercial supercomputing industry in the 1980s, said Steven Wallach, a computer designer, who was a co-founder of Convex Computers, an early supercomputer company.
        ''This changed the entire landscape for high performance computing,'' he said. ''Supercomputing could now be used by the masses.''
        In 2003, when the Association of Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Programming Languages selected the 50 most influential research papers from 1979 to 1999, five papers by Mr. Kennedy were on the list. No other scientist had more than three.
        A significant part of Mr. Kennedy's influence came through the 38 Ph.D. students he advised. Many of those students have gone on to play important roles in computer science.
        At the time of his death Mr. Kennedy was the John and Ann Doerr professor in computational engineering at Rice, where he was known for his devotion to graduate student training. After graduating from Rice summa cum laude with a degree in mathematics in 1967, he attended the Courant Institute at New York University, where he received his doctorate in computer science, studying under Jack Schwartz, a pioneer in the field of high performance computing, and John Cocke, a legendary I.B.M. computer designer.
        Mr. Kennedy founded Rice's computer science department in 1984, and three years later he established a cross-disciplinary research center there, the Computer and Information Technology Institute.
        In 1988, Mr. Kennedy was instrumental in forming an alliance of computer scientists from seven research institutions that led to the establishment of the Center for Research in Parallel Computation, financed by the National Science Foundation and based at Rice. It is now called HiPerSoft.
        Recently his research interests focused on grid computing, an advanced form of parallel computing that distributes problems over networks of computers that are sometimes separated by great distances and connected by optical fiber links.
        Mr. Kennedy is survived by his wife, Carol Quillen, Rice's vice provost for academic affairs; his stepdaughter, Caitlin Lohrenz; his father, Brig. Gen. Kenneth Kennedy Sr., who is retired from the Army; and a sister, Susan Kennedy.
      