
        Gnapa Béatrice Kombé, the powerful dancer and choreographer from the Ivory Coast whose all-women troupe, TchéTché, introduced her to the international festival circuit as a leader of Africa's new experimental dance, died on Thursday in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. She was 35.
        The cause was kidney failure, said the company's technical director, Marc Abdel Camara.
        TchéTché had recently completed a nine-city United States tour, beginning with the Kennedy Center in November, that focused on Ms. Kombé's signature piece, ''Dimi'' (or ''Pain''). An oblique study of the plight of African women, its explosive physicality, punctuated by astounding leaps, and its unabashed emotion, symbolized by the tormented expressions of four women, have stunned audiences worldwide or, at the least, rarely left them indifferent.
        ''There are phenomenally strong conceptual works coming from African choreographers today,'' said Joan Frosch, who featured Ms. Kombé in her documentary film ''Movement (R)Evolution Africa,'' shown at Lincoln Center in January during the Dance on Camera Festival.
        Ms. Frosch, an African-dance specialist at the University of Florida, had invited Ms. Kombé to teach there each year since 2001. ''She was the voice for African women,'' Ms. Frosch said. ''She chose the name tchétché, which means eagle in the Beté language, because she wanted to uplift women and send them to new heights. She also formed Tso, a second dance company, so that young women could look to a life of creativity.''
        Ms. Kombé had performed in traditional African dance groups since childhood and was the daughter of a master ritual dancer; she is survived by her parents and five siblings. However, she regarded her own choreography since forming her company in 1997 as contemporary dance. After performing with the Ballet de la Marahouét, the Ivory Coast's national company, and two other troupes, she choreographed her first piece for Compagnie Lakimodo in 1997.
        She then founded her company with Guillaume Bridji Lebri to show, she said, that ''women are not the weaker gender.'' Her choreography soon won prizes, including a prize from Unesco for ''Dimi'' in 1999, when her company made its North American debut at the New Dance Festival in Montreal.
        A far cry from traditional ceremonial African dance, ''Dimi'' nonetheless fused energy and rhythm with clear geometric purity. Fierceness and tenderness alternated in the work, subtitled ''A Hymn to Female Solidarity.''
        ''TchéTché's is a dark vision,'' Rita Felciano, a San Francisco critic, wrote in December.
        Ms. Kombé was featured in another film, ''African Dance: Sand, Drum and Shostakovich,'' in 2002, and the company appeared regularly in festivals in Europe and Africa. Ms. Frosch said dance students at the University of Florida had taken easily to the personal dance idiom that Ms. Kombé taught them.
        ''Her technique is based on breath,'' Ms. Frosch said. ''It is transformed organically into great physicality. She talked of internal power.''
      