
        Thomas E. Fairchild, a federal appeals court judge for four decades who tried unsuccessfully to unseat Senator Joseph McCarthy in 1952, died on Monday in Madison, Wis. He was 94.
        His death, at an assisted living facility, was announced by a grandson, Thomas Chase.
        Judge Fairchild was appointed to the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966 and, in 1972, wrote the main opinion reversing the convictions of the Chicago Seven, a group of protesters convicted of inciting riots at the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago.
        He was chief judge of the court from 1976 to 1981, and he continued to handle cases as a senior judge until his death.
        In a state long dominated by the Republican Party and the Progressive movement of Robert LaFollette, Judge Fairchild, as a young lawyer and Democrat, ran for Wisconsin attorney general in 1948 and won. It was the first time in decades that a Democrat had won a statewide office in Wisconsin.
        By the time Senator McCarthy had begun his quest to root out the Communists he claimed were influencing American foreign policy, Judge Fairchild was a United States attorney in Wisconsin, having lost a 1950 Senate race against the Republican incumbent, Senator Alexander Wiley. As a prominent Democrat in a state where his party was still struggling to gain traction, Judge Fairchild emerged as the challenger to the inflammatory Senator McCarthy, who was seeking a second term in what would be his only re-election race. The senator died five years later.
        ''I think he thought it was his obligation to accept the challenge,'' said Judge Richard D. Cudahy, a fellow appeals court judge who said he first heard of Judge Fairchild in that 1952 election season. ''I don't think he expected he was going to win, but thought he would do better than anybody else.''
        After losing, he went back to private practice in Milwaukee. In 1957, he was elected to the Wisconsin Supreme Court, taking the seat held for 27 years by his father, Edward T. Fairchild, who swore him in.
        In 1972, six years into his tenure on the federal appeals court, Judge Fairchild wrote the main opinion in one of the most significant cases of his career. The decision in the Chicago Seven case overturned the criminal convictions of seven Vietnam War protesters who were arrested in the riots at the 1968 Democratic Convention. A federal jury had convicted the protesters in 1969 of crossing state lines to incite a riot. Their lawyers appealed, claiming errors had been made in the trial.
        The case, originally assigned to another judge, eventually came before Judge Fairchild. The trial record included 22,000 pages of documents, and Judge Fairchild read all of them, said Judge Joan Humphrey Lefkow, who was his law clerk while the case was on appeal and is now on the federal bench in Chicago. In 1972, Judge Fairchild vacated the convictions of the protesters and ordered a new trial. But the government declined to pursue the case further, and it was dropped.
        Born in Milwaukee in 1912, Judge Fairchild was raised there and in the capital city, Madison, where his father sat. Judge Fairchild got his undergraduate degree from Cornell, and then entered the University of Wisconsin Law School, where he received his law degree in 1938.
        Judge Fairchild's wife, Eleanor, whom he married in 1937, died in 2005. He is survived by four children: Tim, of Madison; Susan Chase of Andover, N.H.; Jennifer Lord of Cripple Creek, Colo.; and Andrew, of Enterprise, Ore.; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 22, 2007, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Thomas Fairchild, a federal appeals court judge who once ran for the Senate against Joseph R. McCarthy, referred imprecisely in several references to his actions as a judge in the case of the Chicago Seven protesters, who were convicted on charges of crossing state lines to incite a riot. He sat on the three-judge panel that heard oral arguments on their appeal, and on behalf of that panel he wrote the opinion that vacated the convictions and ordered a new trial. He did not by himself overturn or vacate the convictions or order a new trial. The writing of the opinion, not the case itself, was originally assigned to another judge.
        Correction:  February 23, 2007, Friday  An obituary on Feb. 15 about Thomas E. Fairchild, a federal appeals court judge who once ran for the Senate against Joseph R. McCarthy, referred imprecisely to his role in the case of the Chicago Seven protesters, who were convicted on charges of crossing state lines to incite a riot. He wrote the opinion on behalf of the three-judge panel that vacated the convictions and ordered a new trial; he did not by himself overturn or vacate the convictions or order a new trial.
        A correction in this space yesterday referred incorrectly to the circumstances of his service on the panel and his writing of the opinion. He was assigned to the three-judge panel of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals as a substitute after the removal of Judge Otto Kerner, who stepped aside while under an indictment. He did not substitute for another judge who was originally assigned to write the opinion.
      