
        Dr. David B. Ast, a dentist and public health official who led an effort to begin fluoridating the water supply in New York State in the 1940s and helped prove its safety and effectiveness in preventing tooth decay, died on Feb. 3 in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 104.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        In 1944, Dr. Ast began a 10-year study of fluoridation that became evidence of the benefits of treating public water and made a strong case for wider use. He selected two towns of comparable size along the Hudson River, Newburgh and Kingston, and compared the health and dental records of their residents.
        During the study, Newburgh's water was treated with fluoride compounds; Kingston's water did not have fluoride. At the time, opponents of fluoridation in New York and elsewhere argued that the compounds could pose unknown health risks and that adding them could even be unconstitutional.
        Yet Dr. Ast and his colleagues at the state's Bureau of Dental Health reported significant results. Children 6 to 9 years old in Newburgh had a 60 percent reduction in numbers of cavities, a reduction that approached 70 percent by the time they reached the 12-to-14 bracket. As important, comparisons of cases of cancers, birth defects, heart and kidney disease showed no significant differences between the two towns.
        While many other communities across the United States were already fluoridating their water, the success in Newburgh was subsequently used as a landmark case study for other municipalities in New York State, and Dr. Ast became a prominent advocate for treating New York City's water supply, which did not start until 1965. In the 1950s, Dr. Ast and others repeated the experiment in Mineola, on Long Island, and confirmed their positive results.
        Dr. Arthur Bushel, a dentist and former deputy commissioner of the New York City health department, credited Dr. Ast with planning and guiding the Newburgh-Kingston study and ''proving that you could do fluoridation dependably and safely.''
        Dr. Bushel, who was president of the American Board of Dental Public Health and who also worked on the study, added, ''The issue led to interesting battles -- to quite a furor, actually -- but the study did much to put them to rest.''
        David Bernard Ast was born in New York City. He received his dental degree from New York University and a master's degree in public health from the University of Michigan.
        He practiced dentistry before joining New York State's Bureau of Dental Health in 1938. He served as the bureau's director before becoming an assistant commissioner of the State Department of Health.
        Dr. Ast's wife of 74 years, Isabel, died in 2003. The couple lived in Albany, N.Y., before moving to Laguna Hills in the 1970s.
        He is survived by a daughter, Jill Michtom of Northridge, Calif.; and by two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      