
        Lew Burdette, the Milwaukee Braves' right-hander who beat the Yankees three times in the 1957 World Series, twice on shutouts, in one of the most dominant pitching performances in baseball's postseason history, died yesterday in Winter Garden, Fla. He was 80.
        His death was announced by the Atlanta Braves, who said he had battled lung cancer.
        Armed with a variety of breaking balls, and bolstered by a reputation for throwing a spitter, Burdette was twice a 20-game winner and twice led the National League in shutouts. He had a career record of 203-144 in 18 seasons and teamed up with the Hall of Famer Warren Spahn and Bob Buhl to pitch the Braves to a pair of pennants.
        But all that was hardly envisioned by the Yankees when, in August 1951, they sent him along with $50,000 to the Braves, then in Boston, for pitcher Johnny Sain.
        Burdette, who had spent five years in the Yankees' minor league system -- pitching in two games for New York in 1950 -- overwhelmed the Yankees in the 1957 World Series, throwing three complete-game victories, each time yielding seven hits. He beat the Yankees, 4-2, at Yankee Stadium in Game 2, outpitched Whitey Ford in a 1-0 victory in Game 5 in Milwaukee, and then, pitching on two days' rest because Spahn had the flu, threw a 5-0 shutout at Yankee Stadium in Game 7. He was named the most valuable player of the Series.
        Burdette was the first pitcher with three complete-game victories in a World Series since Stan Coveleskie achieved the feat for the Cleveland Indians against the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1920. His performance was the most masterly in a Series since Christy Mathewson's three shutouts for the New York Giants against the Philadelphia Athletics in 1905.
        ''Any resentment at having been traded by the Yankees had long since worn off,'' Burdette said the winter after his World Series feat in a Saturday Evening Post article titled ''The Yankees Know Me Now!''
        ''I had come to regard it as one of the best breaks of my life,'' he said of the deal.
        Selva Lewis Burdette Jr. was born and reared in Nitro, W. Va. His high school had no baseball team, so he developed his arm throwing rocks in contests with neighborhood youngsters. The Yankees signed him out of the University of Richmond in 1947, but with Allie Reynolds, Vic Raschi and Eddie Lopat on the pitching staff, there was no room for him.
        Burdette flourished soon after joining the Braves, who moved to Milwaukee in 1953. He threw a fastball that sank, a slider and a screwball out of a variety of pitching motions. After his spectacular World Series, he won 20 games, then started against the Yankees three more times in the 1958 World Series, winning once and losing two other times, including Game 7.
        On May 26, 1959, Burdette pitched 13 shutout innings against Pittsburgh, but that was the night the Pirates' Harvey Haddix threw 12 perfect innings. Burdette, who yielded 12 hits, was the winning pitcher when Haddix was beaten, 1-0, in the 13th inning on a drive by Joe Adcock over the right-center-field fence. In August 1960, Burdette threw a no-hitter against the Philadelphia Phillies.
        Burdette was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals in 1963 and later pitched for the Chicago Cubs, the Phillies and the California Angels. He retired after the 1967 season and was the Atlanta Braves' pitching coach in the early 1970s.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Ann; a son, Lewis; his daughters Madge Burdette, Mary Lou Burdette-Wieloszynski and Elaina Fontana; a brother, Leslie; a sister, Fay Williams; eight grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
        Burdette was forever fidgeting on the mound, wiping his brow, fussing with his cap and jersey and going to his lips, prompting the Braves' manager, Fred Haney, to remark, ''Burdette would make coffee nervous.'' Those machinations, combined with the effectiveness of his breaking balls, brought accusations that he threw a spitball.
        While denying that he wet the ball, Burdette said the suspicions helped him by distracting batters.
        ''If I could get one of the first three hitters in the first inning to go back to the dugout saying I was cheating, by the fifth inning everybody on the team wanted to see the ball when they batted,'' he recalled in ''We Played the Game'' (Hyperion, 1994), edited by Danny Peary.
        ''If I made any motion to my mouth,'' he continued, ''they became suspicious. So I'd go through my ritual, going to my hat and then crossing my chest. I got so many Catholic medals and Sacred Heart medals in the mail. I had a whole drawer of mementos which fans sent to me 'from one good Catholic to another.' I was a Southern Baptist.''
      