
        Leon J. Thal, a leading researcher on drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, died on Saturday in a plane crash near Borrego Springs, Calif. He was 62.
        He had been chairman of the neurosciences department at the University of California, San Diego, since 1993.
        Dr. Thal was piloting the aircraft from San Diego to Borrego Springs, which is near Palm Springs, and there were no passengers, a spokeswoman for the university said.
        In the 1980s, Dr. Thal, a neurologist, helped lead successful clinical trials of tacrine, a cholinesterase inhibitor drug that was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1993. The drug was intended to help enhance memory in Alzheimer's patients by increasing a neurotransmitting compound, acetylcholine, in the brain, but also led to nausea and other side effects. A new generation of cholinesterase drugs has since taken the place of tacrine.
        From the 1990s until his death, Dr. Thal oversaw the development of other drugs as principal investigator of the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, a federally financed consortium of research centers that conducts clinical trials and reviews of drugs, including those that might not be considered commercially viable by the pharmaceutical industry.
        John C. Morris, a professor of neurology at Washington University in St. Louis and director of the Alzheimer's Disease Research Center there, said the study, under Dr. Thal's guidance, was ''driving the field and raising a new generation of Alzheimer's researchers.''
        Leon Joel Thal was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Tufts University before receiving his medical degree from the State University of New York, Downstate Medical Center.
        He trained in neurology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, and was named an assistant professor of neurology there in 1977. In the '70s and '80s, he practiced in the Bronx at Bronx Municipal, Lincoln and St. Barnabas Hospitals.
        Dr. Thal moved to the University of California, San Diego, where he became an associate professor of neurosciences, in 1985. He was appointed a professor of neurosciences in 1989.
        Dr. Thal is survived by his wife, Dr. Donna Thal, a neuropsychologist, and two sisters, Joyce Hollman of Newtonville, Mass., and Terri Thal of New City, N.Y.
      