
        Nat H. Hentel, a former State Supreme Court justice and an interim Queens district attorney in 1966, died Jan. 31 at his home in Tucson. He was 87.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Diana Klebanow Hentel.
        Mr. Hentel was appointed interim district attorney by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller in January 1966, replacing Frank D. O'Connor, who had been elected president of the City Council.
        Ten months later, despite some cases that brought him considerable attention from the news media, Mr. Hentel, a Republican who also had the Liberal line, was defeated by State Senator Thomas J. Mackell, the Democratic nominee, by more than 71,000 votes.
        On Sept. 13, 1966, Mr. Hentel oversaw the arrest of 13 people suspected of being Mafia members at La Stella, a restaurant in Forest Hills. They were not charged with any crimes, but were held on $100,000 bail each as material witnesses for a grand jury investigation into mob activity; the investigation yielded no indictments.
        Then, in October, 19 men around the state who were suspected of having links to a right-wing paramilitary group, the Minutemen, were arrested on charges that they were planning to place firebombs at three upstate camps they considered leftist retreats. The police were operating on information gathered by Mr. Hentel's office. Five years later, all the charges were dropped.
        In 1969, Mr. Hentel was appointed by Mayor John V. Lindsay as a Civil Court judge, a post he held until 1987, when he was elected to the State Supreme Court. By then, he had switched to the Democratic Party.
        Mr. Hentel, who retired from the bench in 1992, also had served as chairman of the New York City advisory committee to the State Commission for Human Rights.
        Nat Herbert Hentel was born in the Bronx on March 29, 1919. He graduated from City College in 1939. His studies at the New York University Law School were interrupted by five years in the Army, during which he served in the Pacific and rose to captain. He received his law degree in 1946.
        Besides his wife of 64 years, Mr. Hentel is survived by two daughters, Elayne Leshtz of Chicago and Susan Michel of Queens; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      