
        Bradley Krause, who by raising his hand in his college graphics arts class became a founding partner of Kinko's, the office supply and printing company, died on Jan. 24 near his home in Cutchogue, N.Y. He was 58.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Stuie, said.
        Mr. Krause was a long-haired, 24-year-old Vietnam veteran sitting in a graphic arts and photography class at Santa Barbara City College in California one day in 1972 when another young man, Paul Orfalea, walked in and asked if anyone knew how to operate a printing press. Mr. Krause's hand shot up.
        Within days, Mr. Krause was working at a tiny former hamburger stand in Goleta, Calif., just outside Santa Barbara, which Mr. Orfalea had converted into the first Kinko's copy shop.
        Soon after, they decided to become partners and to open more stores, particularly near colleges. By the time Mr. Krause retired in 1999, the company had grown to more than 1,500 stores and 23,000 workers.
        Mr. Krause was one of four early partners in the company, which eventually grew to have more than 100 partners -- each owning his own store in partnership with Mr. Orfalea. Mr. Krause became president of the company's western division, with a majority share in more than 100 stores in six states, including Texas, Hawaii and Alaska.
        In 2003, the entire Kinko's chain was bought by FedEx for $2.4 billion.
        Bradley William Krause was born in Los Angeles on July 24, 1948, one of three children of Maxwell and Elizabeth Price Krause. His father was a projectionist at Paramount Studios.
        As a teenager, Mr. Krause was an avid photographer and surfer. At Hollywood High School, he excelled in graphic arts. In 1972, he graduated from Santa Barbara City College with an associate degree in photography.
        Besides his wife and his mother, who lives in Woodland Hills, Calif., Mr. Krause is survived by his sister, Carol Norton of Sun Lakes, Ariz. His brother, David, died in 2003.
        Three years ago, the Krauses moved from Santa Barbara to the North Fork of Long Island, where they began restoring Quawksnest, a large 1896 Dutch colonial home on Peconic Bay built by Mr. Krause's great-grandfather.
      