
        Celia Franca, the London-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada and a pioneering figure in Canadian dance, died on Monday in Ottawa. She was 85.
        Her death followed a series of falls that had left her bedridden, said Sally Szuster, the publicity manager for the Toronto-based National Ballet.
        Karen Kain, a Franca-trained ballerina who is now the company's artistic director, said in announcing her death: ''Celia was more than the National Ballet's founder. She was its presiding spirit, its most stalwart supporter and the embodiment of its ideals and values.''
        Miss Franca came to Canada in 1950 at the invitation of some Toronto arts patrons and members of the city's business community who hoped to form a company there. Grant Strate, a founding member of the National Ballet who became a successful choreographer, recalled in his autobiography, ''Grant Strate: A Memoir'' (Toronto: Dance Collection Danse, 2002) that when Miss Franca was invited to a gathering during her early days in Canada, she ''effortlessly cut a swath through the room, exuding poise and sophistication.''
        She needed to impress people for, at the time, much of Canada knew little about ballet. Yet at that same time, a flurry of interest in ballet led to the founding of annual Canadian Ballet Festivals, beginning in 1948. They brought together many Canadian groups, and Miss Franca was invited to the 1950 festival.
        But during her early years in Canada some members of the Canadian dance community considered her something of an interloper. Two groups had already achieved acclaim and had ambitious plans: the Winnipeg (now Royal Winnipeg) Ballet, which two other British teachers, Gweneth Lloyd and Betty Farrally, established in 1939 and which continues to thrive; and in Toronto itself, the Volkov Canadian Ballet, now defunct, which was founded by the Moscow-trained Boris Volkov, who had opened a school in 1929.
        Miss Franca persevered with her project, making plans and auditioning dancers. In the meantime, to earn money, she worked as a clerk at Eaton's, a Toronto department store. The National Ballet of Canada eventually made its debut on Nov. 12, 1951, at Eaton's Auditorium in Toronto. The ''National'' in its title signified that it intended to be nationwide in scope, not that it was an official troupe of the Canadian government.
        Celia Franks was born in London on June 25, 1921; she later changed her surname. She surprised her working-class family when she was 4 by announcing that she wanted to go on the stage. She became a dance student at the Guildhall School of Music and in 1936 joined Ballet Rambert, a London company known for developing new choreographers. Among them was Antony Tudor, who encouraged her.
        Miss Franca moved on to the Sadler's Wells Ballet (forerunner of today's Royal Ballet) in 1941, then in 1947 became a dancer and ballet mistress of the Metropolitan Ballet, an enterprising but short-lived London group.
        In Toronto Miss Franca called upon some of the choreographers she had worked with in England, including Tudor and John Cranko, commissioned ballets by Canadian choreographers, including Mr. Strate, and offered 19th-century classics, including a ''Swan Lake'' staged by Erik Bruhn and a scenically elaborate ''Sleeping Beauty'' staged by Rudolf Nureyev.
        After directing the National Ballet for more than 20 years, she decided to share the directorate with David Haber in the 1973-74 season. After that, she stepped down and moved to Ottawa, where she founded the School of Dance, Ottawa.
        The National Ballet dedicated its 2005-6 season to her.
        Miss Franca's first marriage, to the British dancer Leo Kersley, ended in divorce; two other husbands, James Morton, a musician, and Bert Anderson, who worked in the box office at Eaton's Auditorium, died before her.
      