
        Alan G. MacDiarmid, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2000 for the discovery of plastics that conduct electricity like metals, died yesterday at the age of 79.
        He died after a fall down stairs in his home in the Drexel Hill suburb of Philadelphia while rushing to catch a flight to his native New Zealand, said his wife, Gayl Gentile. Dr. MacDiarmid was ill with myelodysplastic syndrome, a leukemia-like disease, and had expected to live only a few more weeks, during which he wanted to go to New Zealand to say goodbye to his siblings, his wife said.
        The descendants of Dr. MacDiarmid's discovery can be found in the antistatic coating on photographic film and the bright displays found on many cellphones.
        Plastics consist of an entwined mesh of long molecules known as polymers, each with a central strand of carbon atoms. Polymers generally do not conduct electricity, which is why metal wires are sheathed in plastic to prevent short circuits.
        The discovery of a plastic that could conduct electricity instead of halting it came serendipitously in the 1970s. A researcher in the laboratory of Hideki Shirakawa of the University of Tsukuba in Japan misheard the directions for the synthesis of polyacetylene, a polymer, and made a form of the polymer that was silvery in appearance.
        Meanwhile, Dr. MacDiarmid, a chemistry professor at the University of Pennsylvania, and Alan G. Heeger, now at the University of California, Santa Barbara, had also made silvery films using strands of sulfur nitride. During a coffee break during a seminar in Tokyo, Dr. MacDiarmid and Dr. Shirakawa told each other about the silvery films.
        Dr. Shirakawa visited Penn, and the three researchers further transformed the polyacetylene film by diffusing iodine into it. The electrical conductivity increased by a factor of 10 million in a few minutes.
        ''The iodine then pulls some of the electrons out of the plastic, and therefore the remaining electrons are not packed so tightly,'' Dr. MacDiarmid said in a 2000 interview after the announcement that he, Dr. Heeger and Dr. Shirakawa had won the Nobel Prize.
        Their discovery spurred other scientists to make other types of electronic components out of plastics, including organic light-emitting diodes now used in cellphones.
        Alan Graham MacDiarmid was born in Masterton, New Zealand, and his family's means were meager during the Depression. ''We had no phone or refrigerator,'' Dr. MacDiarmid wrote in his autobiography for the Nobel Prize. ''In one of the houses we lived in Lower Hutt, our hot water came from water pipes embedded in the brick at the back of the open fireplace in the living room.''
        His interest in chemistry started when he discovered one of his father's chemistry textbooks and then from reading books in the library. After his father retired, Dr. MacDiarmid had to leave school at 16 and take a part-time job as a janitor in the chemistry department at Victoria University College. He became a part-time student and eventually finished bachelor's and master's degrees at the college.
        He received doctorates from the University of Wisconsin and Cambridge University in England. After a short stint on the faculty of Queens College of the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, Dr. MacDiarmid became a professor at the University of Pennsylvania. In 2002, he also joined the faculty of the University of Texas at Dallas.
        Dr. MacDiarmid wrote more than 600 research papers and held 20 patents. He was a member of the National Academy of Science and the National Academy of Engineering.
        His first wife, Marian, died in 1990. After a 14-year courtship, Dr. MacDiarmid and Ms. Gentile married a year and a half ago.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. MacDiarmid is survived by three daughters, Heather McConnell of Berwyn, Pa., Dawn Hazelett of Lake Ariel, Pa., and Gail Williams of Wantagh, N.Y.; a son, Duncan, of Pittsburgh; a sister, Alice Palmer of New Zealand, and two brothers, Roderick and Colin, both of New Zealand, and nine grandchildren.
      