
        Ronald Hilton, an influential scholar on Latin America who played a role in uncovering secret preparations for Cuban exiles' invasion at the Bay of Pigs, died Tuesday at his home on the Stanford University campus, in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 95.
        The death was announced on the Web site of the World Association of International Studies, which Professor Hilton founded in 1965, and was confirmed by his daughter, Mary Huyck of Greenwich, Conn.
        It was in November 1960 that The Nation published an article about United States efforts in Central America to prepare for what would become the Bay of Pigs invasion the following spring. The magazine attributed crucial information to Professor Hilton, then the director of the Institute of Hispanic American Studies at Stanford, who had just returned from a research trip to Guatemala. Professor Hilton told an editor at the magazine that it was an open secret in Guatemala that the Central Intelligence Agency had set up a base there for training Cuban exiles to overthrow Fidel Castro.
        Years later, Clifton Daniel, managing editor of The New York Times, said in a speech that the report by Professor Hilton and The Nation had spurred the newspaper to undertake its own investigation of the training base. The Times then published several articles about the impending attack, which would end in disastrous failure. Part of one of those articles, which appeared in the paper a week before the invasion began, was withheld on national security grounds at the request of the Kennedy administration, a decision that editors later said they regretted.
        In an academic career that began in the 1930s and was spent mostly at Stanford, Professor Hilton mixed a dispassionate study of politics with a zest for tackling the most politically charged issues of his day. He was particularly drawn to research on Cuba and the Castro revolution, which, he warned, was far more likely to bring seismic political shifts than had initially been believed.
        Fiercely independent and intellectually tireless, he was involved in many projects from his home base on the Stanford campus. In the 1940s he broadcast news into Latin America over a local radio station. In 1944 he founded the Institute of Hispanic American Studies and published the institute's independent Hispanic American Report, a monthly journal of reports and essays about the region.
        When The Times declined in 1962-63 to publish controversial accounts about Cuba by one of its correspondents, Herbert L. Matthews, who was thought to have grown too close to the Cuban revolution, Professor Hilton agreed to publish them in The Hispanic American Report.
        The Report suspended publication in 1964 after Professor Hilton, known for his outspokenness, resigned as director of Hispanic-American studies in a dispute with Stanford over issues of academic freedom. He then founded the World Association of International Studies, which he oversaw for the rest of his life, and began publishing The World Affairs Report, one of the first journals available on the World Wide Web. He became a visiting fellow of the conservative Hoover Institution, at Stanford, in 1987.
        Professor Hilton also edited several books, including the seven-part ''Who's Who in Latin America'' and ''The Life of Joachim Nabuco,'' about Brazil's first ambassador to the United States, which he also translated from the original Portuguese.
        Ronald Hilton was born in Torquay, England, in 1911. He received his B.A. and M.A. from Oxford University and lived in Spain during the Spanish Civil War, whose outcome left him with lasting concerns about the effects of totalitarianism.
        In 1939, he married a fellow student, Mary Bowie, while both were enrolled in graduate studies at the University of California, Berkeley. He became a United States citizen in 1946.
        Professor Hilton is survived by his wife and daughter.
      