
        Harriett Woods, who started in politics by protesting a rattling manhole cover and went on to become the first woman to win statewide office in Missouri before leading a national effort to promote women as candidates, died on Thursday at her home in University City, Mo. She was 79.
        The cause was leukemia, her family announced.
        Ms. Woods was the sole Democrat to win statewide office in Missouri in 1984, when she overcame a Ronald Reagan tidal wave to become lieutenant governor. She ran twice for the United States Senate in the 1980s.
        While Ms. Woods was president of the National Women's Political Caucus in the first half of the 1990s, women scored significant victories as candidates. She pressed President Bill Clinton to name women to high posts in his new administration, which he did after complaining that she was ''a bean counter.''
        In 1982, Ms. Woods gained national notice when she defeated 10 opponents to win the Democratic nomination for United States senator, challenging the Republican incumbent, John C. Danforth.
        Ms. Woods was the lone woman running for the Senate that year. Her unwavering support for abortion rights in a conservative state drew wide feminist support. Her slogan, ''Give them hell, Harriett,'' was modeled on one used by her fellow Missourian President Harry S. Truman. She spent half as much as Mr. Danforth and came from far behind to lose by 27,500 votes out of 1.5 million cast.
        In 1986, she lost another close Senate race, this one to Christopher S. Bond, a Republican former governor. Ms. Woods struck a strongly populist tone. She ran a three-part advertisement showing a farmer breaking into tears as he told her about his foreclosure. The spot then named Mr. Bond as a board member of the insurance company that foreclosed on the farmer.
        After the commercial was shown, Ms. Woods's support, as indicated in polls, sank. The Almanac of American Politics suggested that the commercial struck voters as demagoguery or an invasion of privacy.
        As president of the women's caucus, a bipartisan organization, Ms. Woods scored her biggest success in 1992, when so many women were elected to Congress that members of the news media called it ''the year of the woman.''
        One was Carol Moseley Braun, a Democrat elected senator from Illinois. In an interview with The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 1995, Ms. Braun said of Ms. Woods, ''She brings a hard-nosed as opposed to a garden-club approach.''
        In 2000, The Post-Dispatch reported that Ms. Woods still ignited passion among friends and foes. ''The only Missouri woman who comes close to sharing Woods's lightning-rod status is her political opposite, conservative antifeminist Phyllis Schlafly,'' the paper said.
        Ruth Harriett Friedman was born on June 2, 1927, in Cleveland. She graduated with a degree in philosophy from the University of Michigan, where she was the first woman to be the top editor of the student paper.
        She worked as a journalist for newspapers and television. In 1953, she married James B. Woods, an editor at The St. Louis Globe-Democrat who became international president of the Newspaper Guild. Mr. Woods died in 2002.
        Surviving are a sister, Elaine Pearlman, of Lafayette, Ind.; three sons, Christopher, Peter and Andrew, all of St. Louis; and nine grandchildren.
        When she was a suburban homemaker, Ms. Woods was home with her napping sons when vehicles rumbling over a loose manhole annoyed her by waking them. City Hall ignored her complaints. She collected neighbors' signatures on a yellow legal pad, and her petition solved the problem.
        The next stop was the City Council, where she stayed eight years. Then she was the first woman appointed to the state highway commission. In 1976, after working as an independent film producer, she was elected to the State Senate, where she concentrated on issues like care for the elderly. She also sponsored the proposed equal rights amendment to the Constitution.
        After four years as lieutenant governor and her two senatorial defeats, Ms. Woods became president of the women's caucus. She had earlier helped start Emily's List, a political action group that solicits contributions early in women's campaigns. Its name is derived from ''Early Money Is Like Yeast.''
        One of her first tasks as caucus president was to express the anger many women felt when Anita F. Hill was questioned, insensitively in their view, by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee considering Clarence Thomas's nomination to the Supreme Court.
        Ms. Woods was pointed in an interview with The New York Times in 1992 after the Senate concluded that it needed a women's restroom next to the chamber. The number of women in the Senate had risen to six, from two.
        ''It says worlds about the men's club that they were counting how many stalls they might need before they'd build,'' she said.
        Ms. Woods recalled in a radio commentary, one of her last public appearances, that she enjoyed visiting Washington last month to attend Representative Nancy Pelosi's installation as speaker of the House and to cheer Claire McCaskill, who in 2006 became the first woman elected to the Senate from Missouri.
        Correction:  February 13, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Harriett Woods, a Missouri politician and national feminist leader, attributed an erroneous distinction to her. She was the only Democratic woman to run for the Senate in 1982, not the only woman to run for the Senate that year. (Millicent Fenwick, a Republican congresswoman from New Jersey, lost her Senate race that year to Frank R. Lautenberg.)
      