
        Jeannette Ordman, a South African-born dancer and teacher who headed the Bat-Dor Dance Company, one of Israel's most important contemporary-dance organizations, died on Wednesday in Tel Aviv.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Kenneth Mason, Bat-Dor's former company manager. The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Ballet gives Miss Ordman's birth date as Nov. 8, 1935, but Mr. Mason said her age was ''always something of an enigma.''
        A native of Germiston, South Africa, Miss Ordman studied ballet there and became a soloist with the Johannesburg Festival Ballet in 1954. After later studies in England, she went to Israel in 1965 to dance and teach.
        She discovered she had a gift for teaching, and after settling in Tel Aviv, she became a protégée of the Baroness Bethsabee (also known as Batsheva) de Rothschild, a member of the French branch of the international banking family. The baroness, who had developed an interest in modern dance, was a patron of Martha Graham, and in 1964 she founded the Batsheva Dance Company, a major Israeli troupe whose repertory was eclectic but rooted in the Graham technique.
        Impressed by Miss Ordman's teaching abilities, the baroness established another company, Bat-Dor, in 1967. Miss Ordman was its director and, until 1984, its leading dancer. Like Batsheva, Bat-Dor had a varied repertory and required its dancers to be familiar with both ballet and modern dance. But whereas training at Batsheva emphasized modern dance, Bat-Dor stressed ballet.
        As director, Miss Ordman attracted well-known choreographers to Israel, among them Antony Tudor, Jiri Kylian, Paul Taylor and Alvin Ailey. She also encouraged Israeli choreographers including Domy Reiter-Soffer and Igal Perry.
        In 1971, the baroness built the Tel Aviv Bat-Dor Dance Center, and three years later she withdrew support from Batsheva, which still continues with other financing, to concentrate on Bat-Dor, which toured internationally. The company appeared at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1979 and at the Joyce Theater in 1983. Reviewing the Joyce engagement in The New York Times, Anna Kisselgoff declared that ''four years ago, it was noted that this still-young troupe did not appear comparable to the best American modern-dance companies,'' but since then it had become ''very much an improved company.''
        In 1993 a fire seriously damaged Bat-Dor's headquarters, and the company temporarily disbanded. It reopened in 1995 in reduced circumstances, then suffered a financial crisis and a curtailment of activities after the baroness died in 1999. Yet Miss Ordman continued undeterred and, at the time of her death, was heading a new school, but without a company.
        She left no immediate survivors.
      