
        George Sadek, a former dean of the Cooper Union School of Art in Manhattan and founder of its Center for Design and Typography, who transformed graphic design education by having students work on actual projects for nonprofit institutions, died on Monday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Nina Sadek.
        Mr. Sadek founded the center in 1979 along the lines of a working design studio, with projects for clients including the Kennedy Center, the American Academy in Rome and the office of the mayor of New York City. Students were held to the highest professional standards. The school, the first of its kind, was imitated by other institutions and is still in operation.
        Besides teaching advanced typography and the art of book design, Mr. Sadek founded the Herb Lubalin Study Center, whose archive is housed at Cooper Union. He often told students, ''A word is worth a thousand pictures,'' and the monographs and exhibits produced at the center were largely about letterforms and how type carries meaning.
        Mr. Sadek was born on Oct. 12, 1928, in Usti nad Labem, Czechoslovakia. In 1938 his family fled from the Nazi invasion of the Sudetenland, eventually settling in Prague. In 1947, he went to England and enrolled in a Czech college there. He stayed in London after the Communist takeover of his homeland in 1948 and found work designing department store windows.
        He also met the woman who became his wife, Miroslava Sadek, another Czech refugee. She survives him, along with his daughter, of Oakland, Calif., who is dean of special programs at the California College of the Arts, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Sadek and his wife moved to New York in 1953. His first job in the United States was designing window displays for the S. Klein department store on Union Square. After being drafted and serving with the Army in Germany from 1954 to 1956, he went to Hunter College on the G.I. Bill.
        He earned a master of fine arts degree at Indiana University, in Bloomington, and in 1960 joined the faculty for that school, becoming director of the graduate design program and designer of the university museum's exhibitions and publications.
        In 1966 he became a professor and dean of the Cooper Union School, where he was the Frank Stanton professor of design from 1981 until 1992, when he received emeritus status.
        Some of his students went on to design for leading studios, including Tibor Kalman's M&Co, and magazines like Spy. Ellen Lupton, a former student, became the design curator at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
      