
        Michael Shurtleff, for years a leading Broadway casting director and the author of an influential book about the audition process, died on Jan. 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 86.
        His death came after a series of health problems, including lung cancer, said Vance Walker, a longtime friend and former student.
        For an actor on Broadway in the 1960s and '70s, there were few figures more powerful than Mr. Shurtleff. Early in his career he was the casting director for the producer David Merrick; Elliott Gould, Barbra Streisand and Jerry Orbach were just a few of the actors whom Mr. Shurtleff cast in Mr. Merrick's shows, including ''Irma la Douce,'' ''Oliver!'' and ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale.''
        He later worked with Bob Fosse, casting both ''Pippin'' and ''Chicago,'' and with Andrew Lloyd Webber, on ''Jesus Christ Superstar.''
        In 1962 Mr. Shurtleff started an independent casting service, Casting Consultants, one of the first of its kind. Other shows he worked on included ''The Apple Tree'' and ''1776.'' He also worked in Hollywood, where he did casting for ''The Graduate'' and ''The Sound of Music.''
        After encountering frustrations while casting the 1966 Broadway production of ''The Lion in Winter,'' Mr. Shurtleff decided to write a practical handbook about the tryout process. ''Audition'' (Bantam), first published in 1978, became a bible for aspiring actors. The year the book was published, he moved to Los Angeles, where he taught classes based on the lessons in his book, often traveling internationally to give master classes.
        Charles Gordon Shurtleff was born in Oak Park, Ill., on July 3, 1920. After attending Lawrence College in Appleton, Wis., and Yale, Mr. Shurtleff moved to New York, having changed his first name to Michael along the way. His survivors include two brothers, John and Roger.
        Though he was involved in just about every aspect of the theater, from public relations to lighting, Mr. Shurtleff's goal was to write plays.
        His New York theatrical debut was ''Call Me by My Rightful Name,'' the story of a love triangle involving a white man, a black man and a white woman. The play was well reviewed and became a hit when it opened Off Broadway in 1961, starring Robert Duvall, Alvin Ailey and Joan Hackett.
        Correction:  February 15, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Michael Shurtleff, a leading Broadway casting director, misidentified the original publisher of his book, ''Audition.'' It was published in hardcover in 1978 by Walker & Company -- not by Bantam, which published the paperback edition in 1979.
      