
        Sheridan Morley, the prominent British critic, biographer and broadcaster who devoted his career to chronicling and, often, celebrating plays and players, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 65.
        The cause has not yet been determined, but his death was widely reported in the British press.
        A lifelong lover of the theater, Mr. Morley came from thoroughbred theatrical stock. The actor Robert Morley was his father, the actress Gladys Cooper was his maternal grandmother, the actor Robert Hardy was his uncle by marriage. His godfather and the subject of his finest biography, ''A Talent to Amuse,'' (1969) was Noël Coward.
        Sheridan Morley was born on Dec. 5, 1941, the day his father opened as Sheridan Whiteside, the grotesquely self-absorbed critic, based on Alexander Woolcott, in the West End production of George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's comedy ''The Man Who Came to Dinner.'' It was this, along with Robert Morley's admiration for the dramatist Richard Brinsley Sheridan, that explained his unconventional first name, which Mr. Morley preferred to hear reduced to Sherry.
        A large, ebullient figure, Mr. Morley was more introverted than his father, whom he resembled physically.
        His childhood, like his name, was unconventional, much of it dictated by his father's work and enlivened by encounters with the famous. He spent time both in Hollywood, where he recalled witnessing cricket matches between expatriate British actors and watching Greta Garbo help wash the dishes after a game, and New York, where his father starred in his own play, ''Edward, My Son,'' in 1948. But at age 9 Sheridan was sent to a progressive co-educational boarding school in England, spending his holidays wherever Robert Morley was filming.
        He eventually proved a good enough scholar to secure a place at Merton College, Oxford, where he became active in undergraduate theater, which was flourishing. At Oxford he first met Ruth Leon, who became his second wife in 1995. But it was during a year teaching at the University of Hawaii that he met his first wife, the Boston-born Margaret Gudejko, to whom he was married from 1965 to 1990; the marriage ended in divorce.
        Ms. Leon, a critic and writer, survives, along with a son and two daughters from his first marriage.
        After his year in Hawaii, Mr. Morley, always a confident, articulate speaker, became a late-night newscaster and commentator on British independent television. (He covered the lying-in-state of Winston Churchill in 1965.) He later moved to the BBC, where he was featured on the magazine program ''Late Night Line-Up.''
        In the 1960s, he also became active as an arts writer, contributing reviews, articles and interviews to The Times of London, among other publications. Something of a workaholic, he continued to combine journalism with a career on radio and television. (He once suggested in an interview with Margaret Thatcher that Britain was a great place ''if you are neither very poor nor black,'' and got the immortal answer, ''Well, I'm not, am I?'')
        He became deputy features editor and then television critic of The Times and, in 1975, arts editor and theater critic of the humor magazine Punch, a position he held until its demise in 1992.
        He also wrote theater reviews from London for The International Herald Tribune and regular articles for the American program-magazine Playbill.
        In recent years, he was successively drama critic for The Spectator, The New Statesman and The Daily Express while trying to build a another career, within the theater. In 1983 he devised and staged a revue, ''Noël and Gertie,'' about Noël Coward and Gertrude Lawrence, which ran for nine months in the West End; in 1999 he scored a substantial critical success by directing Corin Redgrave in Coward's seldom-performed ''Song at Twilight,'' again in the West End.
        Aside from Coward, his subjects as a biographer included Gertrude Lawrence, Marlene Dietrich, both Katharine and Audrey Hepburn, David Niven, James Mason, his own father, and John Gielgud. He held the authorized Gielgud biography until after the actor's death, in 2000, to avoid running into Gielgud's unease at seeing references to his homosexuality in print.
        It was characteristic of Mr. Morley that this book was packed not only with judicious assessments of Gielgud's art -- with also with stories of his famous eccentricities. In life as well as in print, genially reminiscing about the theater and jovially sharing theatrical anecdotes was just what Mr. Morley liked best.
      