
        Roger Bacon, a physicist and materials scientist whose enterprising studies of graphite and carbon fibers contributed to a revolution in the heat-resistant materials used in aircraft and satellites, died on Jan. 26 in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 80.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Bacon made his first significant discovery in the 1950s while working as a research scientist for the Union Carbide Corporation. He was experimenting with different materials, exposing them to high pressures and voltages, when he observed his first graphite ''whiskers,'' or fibers, with a diameter smaller than a tenth of a human hair. He tested and measured the fibers and noted their special properties, which included a tensile strength that was far stronger than steel.
        In later experiments, Dr. Bacon succeeded in manufacturing carbon fibers in quantity by stretching rayon and heating the material to roughly 3,000 degrees Celsius. He found that fibers derived from rayon conducted little heat and also resisted expanding under heat, displaying properties that he and others recognized would have applications in the aerospace and defense industries.
        Subsequently, in the 1960s, carbon fibers were mixed with other materials to protect the leading edges, noses and wingtips of aircraft, missiles and space vehicles. The result was a composite, reinforced with fibers, that had strength and retarded heat.
        Brian J. Sullivan, a mechanical and structural engineer and director of Materials Research and Design, a private engineering firm in Wayne, Pa., that develops fiber composites, said that ''every aircraft made today is made with carbon fibers somewhere, and most notably in brakes for military and commercial aircraft.''
        Dr. Sullivan added that Dr. Bacon was ''a leading researcher on the microstructure of carbon and graphite who really understood their important applications.''
        In the 1970s, Dr. Bacon helped Union Carbide develop the next generation of fibers, known as pitch-based and polyacrylonitrile-based carbon fibers. From 1986 to 1991, he supervised research conducted by the Amoco Corporation on carbon composite materials used on spacecraft and satellites for the Navy.
        Roger Bacon was born in Cleveland. He graduated from Haverford College before earning his doctorate in solid-state physics from the Case Institute of Technology in 1955.
        In 2004, the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia awarded him a Benjamin Franklin Medal for Mechanical Engineering, citing his contributions to the study of carbon fibers and methods for their manufacture.
        Dr. Bacon is survived by his wife of 35 years, Agnes. The couple lived in Oberlin. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by a son, Dr. William Bacon, a psychologist, of Mountain View, Calif.; a daughter, Elizabeth Fox of South Orange, N.J.; a brother, Allen, and a sister, Alice Long, both of Kennett Square, Pa.; and five grandchildren.
        Dr. Bacon's early research continues to have an effect. In making fibers, it is thought possible that he also produced nanotubes, or similar super-small scrolls or cylinders of carbon, which have applications in electronics and engineering and are efficient conductors of heat. The discovery of nanotubes has been credited to a Japanese physicist, Sumio Iijima, who described them in 1991.
      