
        Sheldon K. Friedlander, whose research helped identify the various pollutants in smog and quantify them by source, died on Feb. 9 at his home in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.
        Dr. Friedlander, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of California, Los Angeles, was a leading scientist in aerosol research, a field that studies the properties of airborne particles.
        His work in the 1970s enabled scientists to estimate the contributions that different sources of pollution, including power plants, automobiles and oil refineries, made to smog. That in turn helped governments more finely hone their environmental regulations.
        ''Sheldon was able to point the finger directly at the source,'' said a former colleague, Richard C. Flagan, professor of chemical engineering at the California Institute of Technology. ''Before that, you knew different industries were releasing different particles. But he could say what the relative distribution of different sources of pollution were.''
        Born in the Bronx in 1927, Sheldon Kay Friedlander spent most of his early life in New York and, after service in the Army, graduated from Columbia University in 1949.
        Having obtained a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois, he undertook a career in higher education that carried him to Columbia, Johns Hopkins, Caltech and finally U.C.L.A., where he taught for nearly three decades, until just before his death.
        He was a founding member of the American Association for Aerosol Research, which helps promote the study of airborne particles.
        Dr. Friedlander is survived by his wife, Marjorie Robbins Friedlander; four children, Josiah Friedlander of Santa Monica, Calif.; Eva Friedlander of San Diego; and Amelie Yehros and Zoe Friedlander, both of Los Angeles; and eight grandchildren.
      