
        Dr. Ivan Boszormenyi-Nagy, a psychiatrist who helped establish a powerful therapy for mental illness that brings patients' extended families into treatment as allies, died Jan. 28 at his home in Glenside, Pa. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Dr. Catherine Ducommun-Nagy, also a psychiatrist.
        Dr. Nagy (pronounced nahj), as he was known, was one of several therapists, including Murray Bowen and Lyman C. Wynne, who in the 1950s and 1960s began to look beyond individual psychology to understand and try to treat severe mental disorders, particularly schizophrenia. (Dr. Wynne died on Jan. 17.)
        Dr. Nagy noticed that destructive patterns of family interaction often spanned generations. To address them, he brought patients' grandparents and children into therapy sessions, if possible, as well as parents and siblings. He found that by working to balance loyalties and ethical obligations among family members, he could help soothe patients' symptoms, if not always cure them.
        This work became the foundation for six books and some 80 articles, many of which have been read widely in translation in Europe and elsewhere. One of his most influential books, ''Invisible Loyalties'' (Harper & Row, 1973), written with Geraldine M. Spark, inspired a generation of therapists to think more broadly about mental health as part of a family system, dependent on hidden loyalties and commitments.
        ''His work put the ethical dimensions of relationships -- trust, loyalty, fairness -- at the center of the therapeutic process,'' said Marlene F. Watson, director of family and couples therapy at Drexel University in Philadelphia. Exploring those issues in the context of family life, and holding each family member accountable for his part, Dr. Watson said, helped spread the burden of managing a person's symptoms and relieved suffering.
        Ivan Boszormenyi-Nagy was born in 1920 in Budapest, into a family of prominent judges. One of two brothers, he spent many afternoons with cousins, aunts, uncles and grandparents, in a supportive swarm of extended family that later formed the basis of his thinking about therapy.
        He graduated from Peter Pazmany University with a degree in psychiatry in 1948 and moved to the University of Budapest as an assistant professor. Refusing to work for Communist loyalists, he left the postwar turmoil in Hungary and settled in Salzburg, Austria, for a time, working for the United Nations International Refugee Organization. In 1950 he moved to Chicago, where he completed his medical residency.
        In 1957, Dr. Boszormenyi-Nagy took a position at the Eastern Pennsylvania Psychiatric Institute in Philadelphia, where he led the family therapy department for 20 years. He later became chief of the family therapy department at Hahnemann University, now Drexel. He was a founding member of the American Family Therapy Academy and founded the Institute for Contextual Growth, a private family clinic in Ambler, Pa., now run by his wife.
        Dr. Boszormenyi-Nagy's first wife, Maria, died in 2001. Besides Dr. Ducommun-Nagy, he is survived by a son from his previous marriage, Stephen, of Wyncote, Pa.
      