
        Will Maslow, a former executive director of the American Jewish Congress who fought discrimination against African-Americans as well as Jews, particularly in employment and education, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99.
        The death was confirmed by his daughter Laura Maslow-Armand.
        As general counsel of the American Jewish Congress from 1945 to 1960 and its executive director from 1960 to 1972, Mr. Maslow was noted for taking the battle against discrimination to the courts. That strategy departed from the Jewish community's more conciliatory approach, in which it tried to fight prejudice at the local level through ''brotherhood meetings'' and the like.
        Under Mr. Maslow's direction, the American Jewish Congress fought housing restrictions that had made it impossible for Jews to buy property in many American communities, and it took on colleges and companies that had maintained limits on how many Jews they would admit or hire. He ''aggressively took the fight against discrimination to the courts and legislative chambers,'' according to a 2004 profile in the Jewish weekly newspaper The Forward.
        In championing civil rights for African-Americans, Mr. Maslow led a successful lobbying effort in 1948 for passage of a New York State law barring discrimination in higher education based on race as well as creed or national origin. He later helped draft the American Jewish Congress's friend of the court brief in support of the plaintiffs in the Supreme Court's 1954 Brown v. Board of Education school desegregation decision. Mr. Maslow also was a member of the organizing committee for the August 1963 civil rights march on Washington at which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his ''I Have a Dream'' speech.
        Born on Sept. 27, 1907, in Kiev, Ukraine, Mr. Maslow was the son of Raeesa and Saul Maslenkov. The family changed its name after arriving in the United States in the early 1910s and moving to the Lower East Side. His father was a tailor and his mother a midwife.
        Mr. Maslow graduated from Cornell University in 1929 and from Columbia Law School in 1931. From 1937 to 1943, he was a trial examiner for the National Labor Relations Board. He then was director of field operations for President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Fair Employment Practices Commission.
        Besides his daughter Laura, of Boston, Mr. Maslow is survived by his wife of 73 years, the former Beatrice Greenfield; another daughter, Catha Horton, of Warwick, N.Y.; four grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      