
        Dr. Campbell Moses, an internist and a former medical director of the American Heart Association who in the 1950s and '60s made innovative educational television programs intended for fellow physicians, died on Feb. 11 in Upper Saddle River, N.J. He was 89.
        The cause was a thoracic aneurysm, his family said.
        Dr. Moses was moderator of ''Televised Grand Rounds,'' a live program broadcast on closed circuit to more than 60 hospitals in Pennsylvania and throughout the Ohio Valley. The program presented unusual cases and advances in treatments and connected rural and suburban doctors with specialists from the University of Pittsburgh, where Dr. Moses was an associate professor of medicine.
        He helped produce the program from 1962 to 1969 and was a producer of ''House Call,'' a monthly program that was broadcast on regular channels, from 1957 to 1967.
        Dr. Moses' on-air expertise was reinforced by his own research. He conducted studies in arteriosclerosis, liver function and nuclear medicine while directing the Addison H. Gibson Laboratory in Pittsburgh from 1948 to 1967. He was interested in medical and behavioral modes of preventing vascular disease and the contributions of hypertension and obesity to heart disease.
        From 1967 to 1973, he was medical director of the American Heart Association, at a time when mounting evidence of smoking's harmful effects led to a national ban against cigarette advertising on radio and television. He wrote a guidebook, ''Atherosclerosis: Mechanisms as a Guide to Prevention.'' Dr. Moses later became a senior vice president for Medicus Communications, developing continuing medical education materials, before retiring in the 1990s.
        Campbell Moses Jr. was born in Pittsburgh. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Pittsburgh.
        He was named an assistant professor of medicine at Pittsburgh in 1947. He became an associate professor of medicine in 1950 and was acting chairman of the university's department of preventive medicine in 1958 and 1959.
        Surviving is his wife, Lucille, of Spring Lake, N.J. His first wife, the former Mary Lois Haseltine, died in 1993.
        Also surviving are a daughter, Ann Brown of Harrington Park, N.J.; 3 sons, C. Warren, of Upper Saddle River, James, of Somerset, Pa., and Robert, of Delancey, N.Y.; a brother, the Rev. Donald Moses of Princeton, Minn.; 12 grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.
      