
        Gian Carlo Menotti, who wrote his first opera before he was 11 and went on to become perhaps the most popular and prolific opera composer of his time, winning two Pulitzer Prizes, died Thursday in Monaco, where he had a home. He was 95.
        His death, at Princess Grace Hospital, was announced by his son, Francis, whom Mr. Menotti adopted in the 1970s.
        Though critics often dismissed Mr. Menotti's music as maudlin and unadventurous, many of them still celebrated his impressive lyric gifts, his deft touch with orchestral sound and his talent for making opera comprehensible and enjoyable for people who had previously shunned it. Of critics he once said, ''They often spoil my breakfast but never my lunch.''
        His contemporaries, too, were sometimes unkind. Igor Stravinsky was dismissive of Mr. Menotti's musical language. The composer Luigi Nono withdrew from a project rather than allow his music to appear on the same program as Mr. Menotti's.
        Yet Mr. Menotti's Christmas classic, ''Amahl and the Night Visitors,'' has been performed more than 600 times, often by amateur companies and on high school stages, since it was created for television in 1951.
        Mr. Menotti's works, including ''The Medium,'' ''The Consul,'' ''The Telephone'' and ''The Saint of Bleecker Street'' all showed that opera could sustain itself in a Broadway theater, something that Kurt Weill and George Gershwin managed to do only sporadically.
        Mr. Menotti's involvement with the musical theater was complete. He composed 25 operas, almost all in English. He wrote his own librettos and usually staged his own works.
        He also founded the Festival of Two Worlds, the long-running summer music festival that began in 1958 in Spoleto, Italy, and that he directed for some 40 years. In 1977, he helped establish an American offshoot, Spoleto Festival U.S.A., in Charleston, S.C. Among other things, the festival has given American musicians, composers and choreographers an important forum. He withdrew from the Charleston festival in 1993 after years of wrangling with its administrators and city officials.
        Much of his professional life was spent in the United States, and he usually spoke of himself as an American composer, despite retaining his Italian citizenship and later moving to an estate of baronial splendor near Edinburgh.
        In a musical age in which controversy usually centered on the avant-garde, Mr. Menotti was controversial for his conservatism. Writing of his opera ''The Last Savage'' in 1964, he said: ''To say of a piece that it is harsh, dry, acid and unrelenting is to praise it. While to call it sweet and graceful is to damn it. For better or for worse, in 'The Last Savage' I have dared to do away completely with fashionable dissonance, and in a modest way, I have endeavored to rediscover the nobility of gracefulness and the pleasure of sweetness.''
        Mr. Menotti's operas continue the Italian lyric tradition epitomized by composers like Puccini, to whom he was often compared. Donal Henahan, of The New York Times, once wrote, ''He has suffered from a fear almost unknown among contemporary composers, the fear of losing touch with his audience and with the conventions of the traditional stage.''
        Gian Carlo Menotti was born on July 7, 1911, in Cadegliano, Italy, a small town near Lake Lugano in Lombardy. He was the sixth of eight children of Alfonso and Ines Menotti, a prosperous merchant family engaged in the coffee business. His mother provided piano, violin and cello lessons for her children, and there were evening musicales in the Menotti household that left a profound impression on Gian Carlo.
        Mr. Menotti began writing songs when he was 5, and by 11 he had written an opera, ''The Death of Pierrot,'' which was performed as a puppet show at home. His second opera, a version of Hans Christian Andersen's ''Little Mermaid,'' was composed two years later.
        In 1924, the family moved to Milan, where the young Mr. Menotti attended the Verdi Conservatory of Music for three years and deepened his interest in opera, often taking in performances at La Scala. He read widely -- fairy tales especially -- and his growing taste for exoticism, the supernatural and the theatrical was to influence his later work.
        At 17, he accompanied his mother to Colombia in her final and futile effort to resurrect the family's collapsing coffee business. On her way back to Italy, in 1928, she deposited her son at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia.
        Armed with an introductory letter from Arturo Toscanini's wife and a rudimentary command of English, Mr. Menotti began his studies with Rosario Scalero, Curtis's eminent professor of composition. Mr. Scalero found the young man a talent lacking in discipline and set him to a regime of traditional counterpoint and early-music studies.
        At Curtis, Mr. Menotti began perhaps the decisive partnership of his life -- with the American composer Samuel Barber. They lived, traveled and worked together intermittently until Mr. Barber's death in 1981.
        Mr. Menotti's first mature opera was begun on a long sojourn in Austria with Mr. Barber after Mr. Menotti graduated from Curtis in 1933. It was called ''Amelia al Ballo'' and incorporated characters and situations that were to reappear in his work -- in this case, a frivolous lady's circumventions of a jealous husband. ''Amelia'' was first given a production in Philadelphia in 1937.
        In its English version, ''Amelia Goes to the Ball'' was successful enough at the Metropolitan Opera in New York to win Mr. Menotti a commission for NBC Radio. The work, ''The Old Maid and the Thief,'' also a one-act, dealt with a spinster's conspiracy to snare her attractive young lodger. It was first broadcast in 1939 and later reworked for the stage.
        Mr. Menotti's first full-blown opera, ''The Island God,'' failed badly at the Met in 1942, but ''The Medium,'' written in 1946, ran for 211 performances on Broadway the next year with another piece, ''The Telephone.'' ''The Medium'' was a compendium of the Menotti style -- delicate orchestration, lyric writing and often a melodramatic theatricality.
        By 1950, he had finished ''The Consul,'' a tale of political outcasts in Europe pitted against an unresponsive bureaucracy. ''The Consul'' ran on Broadway for 269 performances and won both the Drama Critics Circle Award and a Pulitzer Prize.
        Mr. Menotti's 1951 opera, ''Amahl and the Night Visitors,'' written for NBC, was perhaps his most popular and successful stage work. ''Amahl'' was inspired by Bosch's painting ''The Adoration of the Magi'' and tells of the healing of a crippled boy who offers his crutches as a gift to the infant Jesus.
        ''The Saint of Bleecker Street,'' produced on Broadway for the 1954-55 season, carried a theme that preoccupied Mr. Menotti: the tension between mysticism and faith on the one hand, and the cynical ''real'' world on the other. It did not make money, but critics liked it, and it earned Mr. Menotti his second Pulitzer.
        He almost always wrote the words for his operas, and in 1958 he served the same function for Mr. Barber. The opera was Mr. Barber's ''Vanessa,'' for which Mr. Menotti provided both libretto and stage direction. Soon afterward he wrote librettos for two other operas: Mr. Barber's ''Hand of Bridge'' and ''Introductions and Goodbyes'' by Lukas Foss.
        His own operas kept pouring out, including ''Labyrinth'' (1963), ''The Last Savage'' (1963), ''Martin's Lie'' (1964), ''Help, Help, the Globolinks'' (1968), ''The Most Important Man'' (1971), ''The Hero'' (1976), ''The Egg'' (1976) and ''The Trial of the Gypsy'' (1978).
        Mr. Menotti was also active composing ballets, cantatas, orchestral tone poems, instrumental concertos, songs and chamber music. And he wrote several plays. In one, ''The Leper'' (1970), he offered a plea for tolerance toward homosexuality.
        Mr. Menotti lived for many years with Mr. Barber in a house known as Capricorn in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. The house was sold in 1973, and Mr. Menotti moved to Yester House, a 16th-century manor in the hills near Edinburgh. The heir presumptive to his personal and musical estate is his son, Francis, who was an aspiring actor when Mr. Menotti met him in the early 1970s.
        Critics often contended that Mr. Menotti's activities at the Two Worlds festival in Spoleto, and his love of the celebrity's life, siphoned energy that might better have been directed toward composing.
        He did not disagree. In 2001, he told The Times: ''Fate has blessed me. But if there's one thing I regret, it's this accursed festival. It's robbed too much of my time from composition and from the chance to just be curious about life, art and philosophy. Suddenly there's no time left, and it makes me feel desperate.''
        Correction:  February 8, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on Friday about Gian Carlo Menotti, the opera composer, referred imprecisely to the number of times his work ''Amahl and the Night Visitors'' has been performed since its creation for television in 1951. While it has indeed been performed ''more than 600 times,'' the number of performances since that time exceeds 2,500.
      