
        M. Lamar Muse, the first president of Southwest Airlines and a pioneer of airline deregulation, died Monday in Dallas. He was 86.
        His family announced his death. He told friends in an e-mail message recently that he had ''fast growth cancer.''
        Mr. Muse became president of Southwest in January 1971, when he was already a veteran of important jobs at American Airlines and four other carriers. He took the Southwest job when the airline had no planes, tens of thousands of dollars of debt and about $100 in the bank. He negotiated a purchase of three 737s from Boeing, and Southwest began flights serving Dallas, Houston and San Antonio.
        At the time, interstate carriers were tightly regulated by the federal government, but Southwest, operating entirely within Texas, was free to innovate. Mr. Muse cut the established fare of $26 between Dallas and San Antonio by half. He also gave travelers the option of paying $26 and getting a free fifth of whiskey. Soon the planes carried an average of 75 people, up from an average of 17, winning passengers from Braniff International and Texas International, and making Southwest profitable.
        Operating from Love Field in Dallas, the airline adopted the slogan ''The Somebody Else Up There Who Loves You.'' It expanded on the ''love'' theme by hiring what The New York Times described in 1971 as ''the most shapely girls in the air'' to be ''hostesses,'' now known as flight attendants. They wore tangerine hot pants and were encouraged to be friendly. According to a biography distributed by Mr. Muse's children on Tuesday, the pants were designed by his first wife, Juanice Gunn Muse.
        The airline also sold drinks cheaply. Offering just peanuts was an early practice, at a time when other airlines still served food.
        ''We're going to be a fun airline,'' Mr. Muse said in describing his fledgling company, which now carries more passengers than any other American airline.
        Mr. Muse was master of the gimmick. When Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport installed machines in the terminal that gave travelers change for dollar bills, but returned only 95 cents, Mr. Muse installed machines at Love Field, Southwest's base, that gave $1.05. He also developed Southwest's employee stock plan, which made millionaires of many of the company's early employees.
        Mr. Muse left Southwest in 1978; accounts differ as to why. According to his family, it was in a dispute over whether to expand service to Chicago.
        In 1980, Mr. Muse's son, Michael L. Muse, founded Muse Air, and the senior Mr. Muse came out of retirement to help run it. The airline jostled with Southwest; at one point, Muse Air said it would start service to Little Rock, Ark., but Southwest bought up the available airport facilities there, and offered a $10 fare. Muse dropped its plan.
        Muse Air was also notable for banning smoking, long before that became a federal requirement.
        The airline was bought by Southwest in 1985.
        In 1978 Mr. Muse testified before Congress in favor of airline deregulation.
        Marion Lamar Muse, who was born in Houston on June 4, 1920. In World War II, he served in the Army with the Corps of Engineers in northern France from 1943-45. Before and after the war, he worked as a certified public accountant. He entered the airline business in 1948, joining Trans Texas Airways, later known as Texas International.
        After the death of Juanice Muse in 1974, Mr. Muse married Barbara Deese Muse, who survives him. Other survivors are his son, Michael, and daughters, Diane Muse Kinnan and Deborah Ann Muse, both of Dallas, and Lisa Muse of Liberty Hill, Tex.; a sister, Marian Thompson of Palestine, Tex.; three grandchildren; one great-grandchild; two stepdaughters; and two stepgrandchildren.
      