
        Covey T. Oliver, a former assistant secretary of state, ambassador to Colombia and a professor of international law, died Thursday at his home near Easton, Md. He was 93.
        The death was confirmed by his son Jefferson.
        Mr. Oliver was ambassador to Colombia from 1964 to 1966 and assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs from 1967 to 1969. As assistant secretary of state, he was also the coordinator of the Alliance for Progress, the aid program created by President John F. Kennedy as a counterweight to the Cuban revolution.
        To all those posts, Mr. Oliver brought a fluency in Spanish, which he had learned as a child in Laredo, Tex., across the Rio Grande from Mexico, and a concern about upheaval in Latin America.
        Testifying before Congress in March 1968 against cuts in financing for the Alliance for Progress, he said: ''This decade of urgency is the time in which the energies of millions of politically awakened Latin Americans can be either directed into the tremendous development effort required to bring about a revolution of freedom, or it can be lost by default to those who preach violence.''
        In his teaching career at three major universities -- interspersed with his diplomatic work -- Mr. Oliver emphasized that nations should adhere to international law, the United Nations Charter and the World Court. He was a professor of the University of Texas at Austin from 1936 to 1948, the University of California, Berkeley, from 1949 to 1956, and the University of Pennsylvania from 1956 to 1978.
        Covey Thomas Oliver was born April 21, 1913, the son of Pheneas and Jane Thomas Covey. His father was a rancher, and his mother was a school teacher.
        Mr. Oliver graduated from the University of Texas in 1933 and earned a law degree there three years later. He received a doctorate in juridical science from Columbia University in 1953.
        In addition to his son Jefferson, of Easton, Mr. Oliver is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Barbara Hauer; two other sons, Scotti and Woodlief, both of Easton; two daughters, Jane Menard of Baton Rouge, La., and Lucy Sampson of Inverness, Calif.; a brother, John, of Dothan, Ala.; and three grandchildren.
      