
        Ralph de Toledano, a news magazine editor, syndicated columnist and author of 25 books who was best known for his friendship with Richard M. Nixon and his passionate embrace of the conservative cause, died on Feb. 3 in Washington. He was 90.
        His death was announced by his nephew David Braunschvig.
        Mr. de Toledano was one of a brilliant group of students at Columbia in the 1930s and went on to write books of poetry and music criticism. He was a top editor at Newsweek magazine and later wrote a column that was distributed by King Features Syndicate.
        His political turning point came when Newsweek assigned him to the trial of Alger Hiss, an American diplomat who was accused of perjury related to charges that Hiss was a Soviet spy. Mr. de Toledano took the side of Whittaker Chambers, a Time magazine editor who was Hiss's main accuser.
        He later wrote a book about the case with Victor Lasky, ''Seeds of Treason'' (Secker and Warburg, 1950), that was intensely partisan.
        Mr. de Toledano became a Republican and met Nixon, then a congressman, during the case. Later, in 1950, when Mr. de Toledano was covering Nixon's campaign for the Senate, Nixon routinely introduced him as an author of ''Seeds of Treason'' and had him speak to the crowds.
        Mr. de Toledano was a regular contributor to National Review in the mid-1950s. When most of the magazine's staff supported Senator Barry Goldwater for the Republican presidential nomination in 1960, Mr. de Toledano backed Nixon. But by 1963, he shifted gears and wrote a book favoring Goldwater.
        Mr. de Toledano was born on Aug. 14, 1916, in Tangier, Morocco. His father was a journalist and a businessman, and his mother a former news correspondent. Both were American, and they brought him to New York when he was 5. He went to Columbia, where The Columbia Jester was voted the best college humor magazine under his editorship. He studied with Lionel Trilling, Jacques Barzun and Thomas Merton.
        He was a socialist with Communist friends, whose views he barely tolerated. In 1938, he became associate editor of The New Leader, an anti-Communist weekly, and the next year, when Hitler and Stalin teamed up, he moved further right.
        He was drafted into the Army as a private and was an antiaircraft gunner, then was transferred to the Office of Strategic Services. Despite a crash course in Italian, he was rejected for covert work in Italy because he was deemed too anti-Communist to work with Italian leftists.
        After being discharged as a sergeant, Mr. de Toledano took several journalistic jobs, then was publicity director of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. In 1948, he joined Newsweek, where one of his scoops was an interview with a Soviet spy who had defected.
        In 1960, he began his column for King Features. He also presided over radio and television shows.
        Mr. de Toledano gave advice to the Nixon White House but never won the position there that friends said he wanted. He considered running for the United States Senate from New York in 1970, but the idea fizzled.
        Mr. de Toledano is survived by his sons, James, of California, and Paul, of Brooklyn.
        In 1979, Mr. de Toledano wrote a book with W. Mark Felt Sr. about Mr. Felt's career in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. de Toledano received half the proceeds, although his name appeared only on the copyright page.
        In 2003, Mr. Felt's son, W. Mark Felt Jr., paid Mr. de Toledano $10,000 for rights to any augmentation of the book.
        Mr. de Toledano sued after it was disclosed in 2005 that the senior Mr. Felt was ''Deep Throat,'' The Washington Post's source for Watergate. Mr. de Toledano said that this information was of commercial value and had been withheld.
        Correction:  February 7, 2007, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Ralph de Toledano, a conservative columnist and author, incorrectly described his relationship with his contemporary at Columbia, the Trappist monk and writer Thomas Merton. Merton was a fellow student of Mr. Toledano, not his teacher.
      