
        Steven Pimlott, a British theater and opera director best known in the United States for his productions of ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat'' and ''Bombay Dreams,'' died Wednesday at his home near Colchester in Essex, England. He was 53.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his agent, Harriet Cruickshank.
        Since 2002, Mr. Pimlott had been an artistic director at the Chichester Festival Theater in southern England, and in recent weeks he had been directing rehearsals of Tennessee Williams's ''Rose Tattoo.'' That production will still open next month, festival officials said.
        In a statement yesterday, Michael Boyd, artistic director of the Royal Shakespeare Company, where Mr. Pimlott had been an associate director from 1996 to 2002, said that Mr. Pimlott ''embraced opera, Shakespeare, bold new writing, the new European classical repertoire, Gilbert and Sullivan, and the popular modern musical.''
        While at the Royal Shakespeare Company, he directed productions of, among other plays, ''Julius Caesar,'' ''As You Like It,'' ''Richard III,'' ''Hamlet,'' ''Measure for Measure'' and ''Antony and Cleopatra.''
        Last month, Queen Elizabeth II named Mr. Pimlott an officer of the Order of the British Empire for his ''services to drama.''
        Born on April 18, 1953, in Stockport, England, Mr. Pimlott was the son of Marian and Arthur Pimlott. His mother survives him, along with his wife, Daniela Bechly, an opera singer; a sister, Ruth; two sons, Oskar and Raphael; and a daughter, Phoebe.
        Mr. Pimlott was a graduate of Cambridge. His love of theater began in elementary school, where he performed in school productions. He later became an accomplished oboist.
        He was hired as a producer by the English National Opera in 1976, and by the Royal Opera Company two years later. Among his productions for those companies were ''La Bohème,'' ''Tosca,'' ''The Bartered Bride,'' ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' and ''Pagliacci.''
        In 1993, Mr. Pimlott directed the Broadway revival of ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.'' When ''Joseph,'' one of the first collaborations of Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, was first staged in 1973, it was a 20-minute cantata for an English boys' school choir. Through successive incarnations, it grew into a two-hour extravaganza with a cast of 31 and a 50-child choir.
        ''We wanted something where a variety show meets the Bible,'' Mr. Pimlott said. ''If we're going to soup this up, it would be a pity to miss out on its sheer exuberance.''
        Mr. Pimlott's exuberance was evident again in 2004 when ''Bombay Dreams,'' a splashy tale of glamorous Bollywood, opened on Broadway.
        Correction:  February 24, 2007, Saturday  The headline with an obituary on Sunday about Steven Pimlott, a British theater and opera director, misidentified his role in the 1993 Broadway revival of ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.'' He was the director, not the producer. The obituary misidentified the theater officials who announced that they would proceed with a production of ''The Rose Tattoo'' that Mr. Pimlott had been directing in rehearsals. The officials were with the National Theater in London, where the festival will be staged -- not officials at the Chichester Festival Theater, where Mr. Pimlott had been an artistic director.
      