
        Max Lanier, a leading left-handed pitcher of the early 1940s with the St. Louis Cardinals who was later barred from organized baseball for jumping to the Mexican League, prompting him to challenge baseball's reserve clause in federal court, died Jan. 30 in Dunellon, Fla. He was 91.
        His death was announced by his son Hal, a former major league infielder and manager, The Associated Press reported.
        Max Lanier won 45 games from 1942 to 1944 as a starting pitcher for the Cardinals, who captured three consecutive pennants and defeated the Yankees in the '42 World Series and the St. Louis Browns in the '44 Series. He led the National League with a 1.90 earned run average in 1943, and he was a two-time All-Star.
        In May 1946, Lanier was 6-0 and seemed headed toward his best season when his baseball fortunes turned.
        The Mexican League, run by the brothers Jorge and Bernardo Pasquel and operating apart from the major league-minor league structure, was offering high salaries to lure players. Lanier, who was earning $10,500 with the Cardinals, agreed to a five-year Mexican League deal paying him $20,000 a year plus a bonus. He was among more than a dozen major leaguers, including his teammates Fred Martin, a pitcher, and Lou Klein, a second baseman, who went to Mexico.
        But Lanier and the others soon became disillusioned by what they said were broken contract promises, poor playing conditions and an unfamiliar culture.
        ''We had one ballpark where a train ran right through the middle between the outfield and the infield,'' Lanier told The Winnipeg Free Press in 2001. ''In Pueblo, they didn't mow the outfield. They had sheep there. They'd just let them eat grass before we played.''
        Lanier tried to return to the Cardinals after a year and a half in Mexico, but the baseball commissioner, Happy Chandler, had levied five-year suspensions against all players who went to the Mexican League.
        Lanier and Martin filed suit in federal court, maintaining that baseball had violated antitrust laws by depriving them of their livelihood. They challenged the longstanding reserve clause that tied players to their teams for as long as the owners wanted them, giving them little bargaining power. Lanier sought $1.5 million in damages, and Martin sought $1 million. Danny Gardella, a former New York Giants outfielder who also went to Mexico, filed a similar lawsuit.
        Faced with the challenge to baseball's contract structure, Chandler lifted the suspensions in June 1949, and the lawsuits were later dropped. Free agency in baseball did not arrive until the mid-1970s.
        Lanier, a native of Denton, N.C., returned to the Cardinals in July 1949 and remained with them through 1951, then pitched for the New York Giants and the Browns. He was 108-82 in 14 major league seasons, and he later managed in the minor leagues.
        In addition to his son Hal, a former infielder for the San Francisco Giants and the Yankees, and a manager of the Houston Astros, he is survived by his son Terry; a daughter, Ruth McGilvary; a sister, Lucille Pierce; 10 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
        After all those contract squabbles, Lanier found happiness with a club owner in 1953, when he ended his career pitching for Bill Veeck's lowly Browns. Lanier told Donald Honig in the oral history ''Baseball When the Grass Was Real'' about the time Veeck had a Champagne party for his players to loosen them up after the team had lost eight games in a row. As Lanier recalled it, ''We went out the next day, nice and loose, and lost our ninth straight.''
      