
        Ann Barzel, a dance writer and historian whose tenacity and passion for the art form were legendary, died on Feb. 12 in Chicago. She was 101.
        Her death was confirmed by George Dorris, a dance historian and friend.
        Ms. Barzel liked to say she started her career at 9 when she looked up the word ''dance'' in an encyclopedia. Soon after, she said in a 1996 interview in The New York Times, she began to study ''a mild sort of ballet'' for 25 cents a week at the Jewish Settlement House in Des Moines, where she grew up. ''I started saving every little piece of paper,'' she said, carting home discarded magazines from the local library.
        After moving to Chicago, then an important center for dance and her home for the rest of her life, Ms. Barzel studied ballet with, among others, Adolph Bolm, whose influence on the development of American ballet was incalculable.
        But her destiny was to write rather than perform. She reviewed dance in the 1940s for The Chicago Times and other newspapers, and later for Dance Magazine for many years. She also contributed to many dance journals and encyclopedias.
        But her films of touring ballet performances -- shot from the wings in the '40s and '50s, often with a windup camera -- proved to be her most important contribution to the field. ''All the books in the world won't tell you how Nijinsky moved,'' she told The Chicago Sun-Times in 1996. ''I wanted to get the feeling of the artist and the rapport with the audience.''
        Her films were an important resource for the 2005 documentary ''Ballets Russes'' and were sometimes used by choreographers, including Jerome Robbins, as memory cues in restaging early work. At a 2002 tribute to Ms. Barzel, the ballerina Violette Verdy attributed her career at American Ballet Theater to film shot by Ms. Barzel that she was able to use as an audition tape.
        Dance companies gave Ms. Barzel carte blanche. When she ran out of film shooting a performance by Ballet Theater (later American Ballet Theater), she was told by Richard Pleasant, a founder of the troupe, to keep holding her camera up. ''They dance better,'' he told her.
        She donated her vast collection, which covers dance throughout America and in Europe from as early as the 1890s, to the Newberry Library in Chicago in 1996. The collection includes 30,000 feet of film and 200 shelves of documents, books, periodicals, scrapbooks, programs and photographs, as well as audio-visual materials and artifacts, among them a toeshoe said to have been worn by Anna Pavlova. Films by Ms. Barzel are in the dance collection of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center.
        The collection contains rare material on modern dance, but Ms. Barzel, who left no immediate survivors, made no secret of her preference for ballet. Asked by The Times in 1996 about the highs and lows of her dancegoing over 70 years, she singled out minimalist dance -- ''these ego trips people take nowadays,'' she said -- as a low. ''I like my dance maximal,'' she said.
      