
        Elizabeth Tashjian, who debated whether she was a nut culturist or a nut artist, but was indisputably, well, nuts enough about nuts to win fame (but not fortune) as matriarch of the Nut Museum in Old Lyme, Conn., died last Sunday in Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 94.
        Ms. Tashjian hated being called ''the Nut Lady'' and died without fulfilling her dream of opening a nut theme park certain to surpass Disneyland. (Her reasoning: Squirrels are cuter than a certain mouse.)
        Her death was confirmed by Christopher B. Steiner, a professor of art history and museum studies at Connecticut College, who in 2002 rescued Ms. Tashjian's nuts, nut art, nut jewelry and a Nativity scene made completely of nuts from being thrown away.
        That collection, the Nut Museum, had filled a room of Ms. Tashjian's 17-room Gothic Revival mansion. The objects have since been in museum and library exhibitions.
        ''She became a visionary avant-garde artist,'' said Dr. Steiner, who is dedicated to preserving, interpreting and communicating Ms. Tashjian's legacy.
        Dr. Steiner said that Ms. Tashjian began as an academic painter who liked nuts as a subject and started her museum in 1972 as a ''cabinet of curiosity.'' These ''cabinets,'' which emerged during the Renaissance, were rooms stuffed with intriguing objects about which people told stories.
        Or sang songs, in the case of Ms. Tashjian. She performed her composition ''Nuts Are Beautiful,'' the nut anthem, for visitors, to whom she also gave free cider and coffeecake. She told stories about a bearded dwarf dwelling within every peanut embryo. (Admission at first was one nut, later rising to $3 and one nut.)
        Her museum fits comfortably within an American tradition of enthrallment with odd collections, including museums of vacuum cleaners, toilet seats, mustard, postcards, potted meat, Antarctic dogs and dirt. But it aspired to be an art museum.
        It contained mainly artworks by Ms. Tashjian, including her ''Mask of the Unknown Nut'' sculpture. The many varieties of nuts, including the 35-pound Coco de mer, which resembles buttocks, from the Seychelles, were gifts from patrons. So were many of the artifacts, like toys derived from nuts.
        Ms. Tashjian's second act in life was as a public personality on television and radio. She appeared on the shows of Johnny Carson, David Letterman, Jay Leno, Howard Stern and Chevy Chase, who kissed her hand twice and won her heart. She often took along her huge, disturbingly suggestive Coco de mer nut.
        Mr. Steiner said it was arguable whether she was exploited by the news media, exploited it or played it to a draw.
        His suspicion that she was the joker, not the joke, is reflected in the title of his forthcoming book, ''Performing the Nut Museum: Elizabeth Tashjian and the Art of the Double Entendre.''
        In her twilight years as a gaunt, four-foot-tall woman with a sing-song voice, she became a symbol of defiance, as she vainly fought to keep her home-cum-museum. A court declared her incompetent, and named guardians who sold it to pay her bills.
        In 2005 the filmmaker Don Bernier made a documentary, ''In a Nutshell: A Portrait of Elizabeth Tashjian.'' Marian Masone of the Film Society of Lincoln Center wrote, ''Bernier's lovely, touching film asks the question, was she really nuts?''
        Elizabeth Yegsa Tashjian was born in 1912 in Manhattan, the daughter of Armenian immigrants. Her father was a prosperous rug trader, and her mother came from an aristocratic family with a castle. They divorced when she was 7.
        She studied at the New York School of Applied Design for Women and the National Academy of Design, where, The New York Times reported in 1929, she won a prize. She was also a gifted violinist.
        ''The art and the music galloped together,'' she said in an interview with The Hartford Courant in 2005.
        As a child, she played with nuts, then painted them. As an art student, she submitted a painting of a nutcracker chasing Brazil nuts to a juried art competition.
        She and her mother moved to the Old Lyme mansion in 1950, and her mother died in 1959. Until she fell ill in 2002, Ms. Tashjian lived there alone. She never married, held a regular job or learned to drive. She left no immediate survivors.
        She claimed not to know the word ''nut'' meant crazy until a patron shocked her by offering his wife for the ''nut'' portion of her admission fee. She resolved to end this pejorative use of her favorite word, in the process becoming, she said, a nutty philosopher.
        In an interview with The Washington Post in 1999, she shared an insight: ''To reveal its inner self,'' she said, ''the nut needs the nutcracker.''
      