
        Dr. Leonard Berg, a neurologist and top medical administrator at Washington University in St. Louis who helped design a leading test used to assess social functioning in patients with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, died on Jan. 15 in that city. He was 79.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        In the 1980s, while director of a study to examine the effects of aging on memory, Dr. Berg began to assemble the elements of what would become the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale, a measurement now widely used in Alzheimer's research.
        Dr. Berg and others combined cognitive tests of memory and language with an assessment of a patient's mobility in the community. The researchers posed questions about a patient's daily activities and asked about hobbies and ease in dealing with minor tasks like balancing a checkbook. They expressed the result in a numerical score, with 0 representing no symptoms, and a score of 0.5 indicating the possible onset of dementia. A score of 3.0 represented a severe manifestation of disease.
        The rating scale has led to a more precise measurement of patients' conditions and has provided an important benchmark for clinicians in determining whether dementia has advanced, said Dr. Steven T. DeKosky, chairman of the neurology department and director of the Alzheimer's Disease Research Center at the University of Pittsburgh.
        Dr. DeKosky said the test was a unique contribution to Alzheimer's studies and that it ''remains in virtual universal usage in all Alzheimer's research groups.''
        In addition to his work in assessment, Dr. Berg directed dementia research at Washington University and was chairman of the medical and scientific advisory council of the national Alzheimer's Association. He acted as a patients' spokesman in the news media and often gave voice to the challenges faced by their families. In particular, he was concerned about the social isolation caused by dementia, and counseled that patients, once they had a diagnosis, need not stop driving but should be tested regularly.
        Leonard Berg was born in St. Louis. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Washington University.
        After teaching briefly at Columbia and Georgetown, he was named an assistant professor of clinical neurology at Washington in 1956. Dr. Berg maintained a private practice while a professor of clinical neurology there from 1972 to 1989. He then became a professor of neurology, and was director of the university's Alzheimer's Disease Research Center from 1985 to 1998.
        Dr. Berg was appointed president of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology in 1985.
        Dr. Berg is survived by his wife of 59 years, Gerry; a son, John, an associate vice chancellor of Washington University; and two daughters, Nancy and Kathy, all of St. Louis; and one grandchild.
      