
        Joseph S. Farland, who as the American ambassador to Pakistan in 1971 helped Henry A. Kissinger surreptitiously slip into China for 36 hours to lay the groundwork for President Richard M. Nixon's historic visit to China, died Sunday at his home in Winchester, Va. He was 92.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his son Richard said.
        With a reputation for working outside diplomatic protocols, Mr. Farland -- a former F.B.I. agent and, in the Eisenhower years, an adviser on military intelligence -- was ambassador to the Dominican Republic from 1957 to 1960; to Panama from 1960 to 1963; to Pakistan from 1969 to 1972; and to Iran from 1972 to 1973.
        It was in the spring of 1971 that Mr. Farland, as ambassador to Pakistan, helped create the ruse under which Mr. Kissinger, then Nixon's national security adviser, would arrive in Islamabad on July 8, apparently for talks with President Agha Mohammad Yahya Khan, the military dictator at the time. According to the plan, Mr. Kissinger feigned a severe stomachache and was taken to President Khan's mountain rest house. From there, Mr. Kissinger was flown to southern China for a clandestine meeting, from July 9 to 11, with the Chinese premier, Chou En-lai. There, they arranged for Nixon's weeklong trip to China in February 1972, which restructured long-strained diplomatic relations.
        In his 1979 book, ''White House Years,'' Mr. Kissinger wrote: ''We were fortunate that our ambassador in Pakistan at that moment was a man outside the regular Foreign Service establishment. A traditionalist would never have responded without reinsuring himself by a 'personal' communication to his departmental chiefs in Washington. Farland, moreover, was as matter-of-factly able as he was conscientious. He handled the complicated arrangement for my trip with unfailing skill and discretion.''
        Joseph Simpson Farland was born on Aug. 11, 1914, in Clarksburg, W.Va., the only child of Richard and Grace Simpson Farland. His father was a banker. He graduated from West Virginia University in 1936 and a earned a law degree there in 1938. A year later he married Virginia Christopher, a daughter of a local coal mine owner; Mrs. Farland died in 1978.
        Besides his son Richard, of Berryville, Va., Mr. Farland is survived by another son, Christopher, of Wilmington, N.C.; two daughters, Brooke Oatley of St. Simon's Island, Ga., and Page Craw of Natchez, Miss.; 11 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Farland joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1942. Two years later, he was commissioned as a Navy officer and assigned to do research on strategic issues regarding Asia. Returning to West Virginia in 1946, he became president of his father-in-law's coal company and started two of his own.
        But in 1956, Mr. Farland, who had been active in West Virginia Republican politics, was asked by President Eisenhower to be deputy director of the United States Mutual Security Agency, a successor to the Marshall Plan that combined foreign aid and military assistance programs. A year later, he was named ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
        By 1960, Eisenhower was contemplating American support for opponents of both Rafael Trujillo, the dictator of the Dominican Republic, and, as a counterweight, President Fidel Castro of Cuba. Records of the Church Committee -- a 1975 Senate investigation headed by Senator Frank Church, Democrat of Idaho, into ''Alleged Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders'' -- say, ''Ambassador Farland established contact with a group of dissidents regarded as moderate, pro-United States and desirous of establishing a democratic form of government.''
        The records also say that a leading dissident ''made a specific request to Ambassador Farland for a limited number of rifles with telescopic sites,'' and that he ''apparently'' passed along the request to the State Department and the C.I.A.
        On May 30, 1961, Trujillo was assassinated. But the rifles had never been delivered, the committee report says, and no direct link between the White House and the assassins was ever established.
        After his Dominican posting, Mr. Farland was named ambassador to Panama. There, he pushed for direct American aid for the construction of rural roads and housing for the poor. He resigned in September 1963, protesting what he called excessive management by the State Department's Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, which opposed his plans for direct aid. An article in The New York Times said Mr. Farland ''concluded that the department preferred a more classical diplomatic approach, even though his tactics, which involved visits to virtually every town and village in Panama in the last three years, brought vast popularity to the United States.''
        His resignation prompted three weeks of acclaim by Panamanian farmers, teachers, union officials and even industrialists, culminating in an uproarious farewell ceremony attended by thousands.
        From Iran, in August 1972, he sent a cable to Washington warning that unless Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi answered ''some of the political, economic and social complaints'' of ordinary Iranians, he would face a rebellion. Six years later, his prediction came true.
      