
        Ralph Penza, an award-winning television news reporter and backup anchor for WNBC-TV in New York City, died early yesterday morning after a long illness, a spokeswoman for NBC said. Mr. Penza was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        His death was announced yesterday by NBC.
        Mr. Penza, a senior correspondent for WNBC-TV, was best known for his aggressive reporting style and investigative news series, which often carried provocative titles like ''Killer Fish'' and ''Dangerous Doctors.'' He was also known for his signature ''walking stand-ups,'' in which the camera would follow him as he moved around a scene instead of standing still in one spot.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Penza's breaking news reports and television news series earned him various prestigious awards, including six Emmys and two ''Gold Typewriter'' awards from the New York Press Club.
        Mr. Penza began his career while in high school, when he went to work as a copy boy for the legendary gossip columnist and broadcaster Walter Winchell. After studying radio and television at New York University, Mr. Penza went to work as a news director for several small television stations -- first in Indiana then in Georgia -- before landing a job at WABC-TV in New York in 1961 as a news writer and producer of the evening newscast.
        Later, Mr. Penza moved to WCBS-TV in New York, where he was promoted to news reporter. In that role, he became one of the station's most popular on-air personalities. In 1972, as part of an effort to improve its sagging ratings, the station named Mr. Penza the co-anchor of its nightly 11 p.m. newscasts along with Jim Jensen. According to a New York Times article at the time, it was an open secret that Channel 2 had conducted taped public samplings of at least a half-dozen news reporters -- from New York and elsewhere -- and found that Mr. Penza was scored highly by its viewers.
        In October 1980, Mr. Penza joined WNBC-TV as a reporter and weekend anchor. In one series that earned him an Emmy in 2000 he went overseas to cover Pope John Paul II's visit to the Holy Land, filing reports from Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Bethlehem and other cities along the way. A longtime producer of his, Diane Drummey Marino, said Mr. Penza was as comfortable and fearless reporting live in front of a mosque in Israel with bullets whizzing past his head as he was back in New York chasing down scam artists and criminals.
        ''I used to say he was like the Dalmatian in the firehouse,'' she said. ''He lived to report the news and to let people know what was going on so they could make decisions that were informed. He was a Brooklyn guy who loved New York and never thought of himself as above his viewers.''
        Mr. Penza was a member of the Inner Circle, an organization of political reporters, and was the first television journalist to be named its president. He is survived by his wife, Lucille, and two children.
      