
        Joseph E. Gallo, the California cheese maker who battled his winemaking brothers over the use of the family name, died Saturday at his home in Livingston, Calif. He was 87.
        The cause was complications of a series of strokes, said his son, Michael, the chief executive of Joseph Gallo Farms.
        Mr. Gallo, the youngest son of Italian immigrants, grew up working in his family's vineyards in the San Joaquin Valley in Central California. His father, Joseph Gallo Sr., was a pubkeeper in the valley who began growing and selling grapes to East Coast winemakers during Prohibition.
        But after Joseph Gallo Sr. killed his wife and then himself in 1933, in what the police ruled a murder-suicide, Mr. Gallo's brothers, Ernest and Julio, turned to winemaking as the family business, eventually coming to dominate American wineries. Ten years younger, Mr. Gallo became a ward of his brothers, eventually becoming a rancher and vineyard manager.
        By the 1970s, Mr. Gallo struck out on his own and began developing huge swaths of land. In 1979 he started a dairy with 4,000 cows, and by 1983 began producing a line of cheeses. His company has since become one of California's largest cheese makers, operating five dairies on about 12,500 acres.
        Through the years, Mr. Gallo had a protracted legal battle with his brothers over the use of the family name for his cheeses. In 1989, a federal district court judge ruled in favor of the E.& J. Gallo Winery and barred Mr. Gallo from using the family name on his products. His company's cheeses are now sold under the brand name Joseph Farms.
        Michael Gallo said that his father took the legal battles hard, suffering several strokes around that time. Mr. Gallo did not speak to his brothers after that, Michael Gallo said.
        In a statement, members of Ernest and Julio Gallo's families, said: ''Our family's sympathies go out to Joe's family at this difficult time.''
        Joseph Edward Gallo was born on Sept. 11, 1919, in Antioch, Calif. He attended Modesto Junior College and then enlisted in the Army Air Corps during World War II.
        In addition to his son, Michael, Mr. Gallo is survived by his wife, Patricia; his daughter, Linda; a stepson, Sam Gardali; his brother Ernest; and six grandchildren. His brother Julio died in 1993. Another son, Peter J. Gallo, was killed in Vietnam in 1968.
        Mr. Gallo, whom his son described as an avid outdoorsman, also devoted himself to environmental causes. Over the years, he donated several thousand acres to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and to the State of California for wildlife refuges and parks. In 2001, Joseph Gallo Farms received an award from the Environmental Protection Agency for its preservation efforts.
      