
        Robert Adler, a physicist and prolific inventor best known as the co-inventor of the television remote control device, died Feb. 15 in Boise, Idaho. He was 93.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Ingrid Adler.
        Dr. Adler, who held nearly 200 United States patents, worked at Zenith Electronics on and off for nearly 60 years. He was director of the research division during an era when consumer electronics companies like Zenith and RCA operated fully staffed research laboratories on par with AT&T's Bell Laboratories.
        The Space Command ultrasonic remote control, which used high-frequency sound, was introduced by Zenith in 1956. ''Nothing between you and the set but space!'' proclaimed early advertisements for the device. The sound wave was generated by hitting a spring-loaded button that produced a clicking sound when pushed.
        ''Bob was definitely the father of the clicker,'' said Jerry K. Pearlman, Zenith's former chief executive.
        The ultrasonic technology remained the standard of the television industry for 25 years. Zenith and other electronics companies sold nine million such devices until the early 1980s, when remote-control units using infrared signals began to dominate the market.
        In 1958, Dr. Adler received the Outstanding Technical Achievement Award of the Institute of Radio Engineers, now the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. In 1996, on the 40th anniversary of the remote control, Dr. Adler appeared on ''The Tonight Show'' with Jay Leno. In 1997, the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences awarded Dr. Adler and Eugene Polley, another Zenith engineer, an Emmy for their invention.
        Although it was the remote control device that attracted the most public attention, Dr. Adler did not consider it his most significant invention. Dr. Adler prided himself most, former colleagues said, in the work he did on improving television reception by screening out certain types of electromagnetic interference.
        Robert Adler was born on Dec. 4, 1913, in Vienna. His mother, Jenny Herschmann Adler, was a doctor, and his father, Max Adler, was a prominent social theorist. Robert inherited his mother's penchant for science, and in 1937, he received his doctorate in physics from the University of Vienna, at the age of 24.
        In 1939, a year after the annexation of Austria by Germany, Dr. Adler left Vienna, his wife said. He went first to Belgium, then England. In 1941, at the urging of friends, he emigrated to the United States, and shortly after his arrival he was hired in Zenith's research division and settled in the Chicago area, where Zenith had its headquarters.
        Dr. Adler was unable to work on classified projects during World War II, so the company set him up with a private laboratory and assistants to work independently on projects of his choice, recalled John Pederson, a former Zenith vice president who met Dr. Adler in 1947.
        In the early 1940s, Dr. Adler married Mary Buehl, who died in 1993. Dr. Adler, who had no children, is survived by his wife, Ingrid, whom he married in 1998.
        While at Zenith, Dr. Adler also invented an electron beam parametric amplifier, and made significant contributions in the fields of laser interferometers and piezoelectric ceramics, Mr. Pederson said. Dr. Adler also directed early research into optical videodiscs. Dr. Adler retired as Zenith's vice president for research in 1979, but remained as a technical consultant until 1999, when Zenith was sold to LG Electronics.
        Dr. Adler was also a pioneer in touch-screen technology. In the early 1980s, he developed and patented a touch screen based on surface acoustic wave technology. Such screens are used in airport check-in kiosks, automated teller machines and interactive museum exhibits.
        The United States Patent and Trademark Office published Dr. Adler's most recent patent application, for advances in touch-screen technology, on Feb. 1.
      