
        Nelson W. Polsby, who marshaled intellectual rigor, lucid writing and a knack for drawing striking lessons from real-life observation in his enduring studies of Congress and the presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 72.
        The cause was complications of congestive heart failure, his daughter Emily Polsby said.
        Mr. Polsby, a political scientist, wrote or edited at least 15 books and scores of articles and edited The American Political Science Review, the most prestigious political science journal. He was especially known for his studies of Congress, the presidency, political parties, policy making and the media.
        In an interview with Harry Kreisler of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, in 2002, Mr. Polsby said it was all so much fun that he at first had trouble believing ''people paid you American money to study this stuff.''
        As a youth, he gobbled up newspapers, newscasts and family talk about politics. Then , as a college student he eagerly pursued his fascination with how Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the anti-Communist crusader, managed ''to scare the daylights'' out of Washington power brokers.
        Using public opinion research and his instincts, Mr. Polsby attributed McCarthy's success to support from the Republican Party, a novel notion to more senior social scientists.
        Mr. Polsby had already fallen in love with Washington while ''hanging around'' the Capitol as a student and watching lawmakers, and he was beguiled by its complexity. He perceived elites competing with one another in often unexpected ways.
        ''There are often too many facts and not infrequently too many different versions of the facts,'' he said in the Berkeley interview. ''Rather than speaking for themselves, various facts have what we have come to refer to as spokespersons.''
        Mr. Polsby taught at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and Wesleyan University before moving to Berkeley, where he was the Heller professor of political science and director of the Institute of Governmental Studies.
        Among the subjects he analyzed was how electoral rule changes in the major parties changed the political landscape. Edwin M. Yoder Jr., reviewing one of Mr. Polsby's books, ''Consequences of Party Reform'' (1983), in The Washington Post Book World, called him the ''Newton of the post-1968 political dynamics.''
        His influential works on Congress began with an article in The American Political Science Review in 1968. Titled ''Institutionalization of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1948,'' it told how the House had become more complex.
        In 2004, in ''The Importance of Constituents,'' he attributed the shift of power in the House to demographic changes. One reason for these, he said, was the availability of residential air-conditioning, which drew Republicans to the South, where they seized the conservative banner from traditional Democrats.
        His 1984 book, ''Political Innovation in America,'' examined eight postwar initiatives, from the creation of the Council of Economic Advisers and the Atomic Energy Commission to Medicare. He told how these innovations resulted from the interaction of ''policy entrepreneurs'' like university researchers and politicians on the prowl for ideas.
        Nelson Woolf Polsby was born on Oct. 25, 1934, in Norwich, Conn. His father, a businessman, died when he was 11. He attended the Pomfret School in Connecticut and liked to visit the Capitol on breaks, when he visited his mother, who had moved to nearby Chevy Chase, Md. He attended the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, which also let him spend time in Washington.
        His doctoral thesis at Yale concerned power relationships, but differed from the case studies of cities that were popular at the time. Norman J. Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said Mr. Polsby put issues in a much broader context.
        Mr. Polsby is survived by his wife of 48 years, Linda; his daughters Emily, of Berkeley, and Lisa Susan Polsby of Naperville, Ill.; his son, Daniel, of Mountain View, Calif.; his mother, Edythe Woolf Polsby Salzberger of Washington; his brothers Daniel, of Fairfax, Va., and Allen, of Bethesda, Md.; and two grandsons.
        Mr. Polsby did not turn neoconservative, like many intellectual Democrats of his generation, but remained ruthlessly bipartisan in his prickliness.
        ''He could rip the bark off Bill Clinton just as easily as he could George Bush,'' Mr. Ornstein said.
      