
        Roy Kuhlman, whose jazzlike improvisational paintings and graphics for Grove Press books in the 1950s and '60s introduced an Abstract Expressionist style to graphic design, died in Mesa, Ariz. He was 83.
        Although he had Alzheimer's disease for several years, the cause of death was pneumonia, said his daughter, Arden Riordan.
        Mr. Kuhlman, who said his work was influenced by ''the strong, simple'' style of the painter Franz Kline, developed an array of colorful painted and drawn abstract and geometric forms, which were combined with either clean gothic typefaces or roughly sketched, expressive letterforms. He developed this approach in the early '50s, when other leading Modernist jacket designers, including Paul Rand and Alvin Lustig, were employing symbolic and expressionistic methods in a publishing field known for its unambiguous realism and billboardlike typography.
        But Mr. Kuhlman's minimalist graphic vocabulary was entirely his own. He avoided literal representation, because he said he could not really draw well. Instead, his random color patterns and amorphous shapes seemed totally independent from the texts they were illustrating. He rarely read the manuscripts before designing the covers, and yet every image was eye-catching and posterlike, designed to draw attention to the books on the shelves.
        Mr. Kuhlman was born on July 9, 1923, in Fort Worth. When he was 3, his family moved to Glendale, Calif., so his father, a mechanic, could find work. Born with a heart condition that kept him indoors for most of his early years, the young boy turned to the pursuit of art. His mother, who made violins as a hobby, enrolled him in an adult figure-drawing class as a child, and he continued to take drawing classes through high school. He received a scholarship to the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles and in 1946 obtained another scholarship to the Art Students League of New York, where he embraced Abstract Expressionism.
        Realizing, however, he could not make a living as a painter in New York, he looked for commercial work, and in 1951, at 28, he showed his portfolio to Barney Rosset, publisher of the avant-garde Grove Press.
        Although Mr. Rosset was looking for a distinctive style to upgrade his lackluster jackets, he did not initially find anything he liked in the portfolio, until Mr. Kuhlman inadvertently showed him some of the abstract sketches, prepared for his next interview, at a jazz record company. The unconventional, abstract approach appealed to Mr. Rosset, a friend of Wilhelm de Kooning, as exactly what wanted to create allure for a line of on-the-edge literature, including ''Krapp's Last Tape'' by Samuel Beckett, ''Last Exit to Brooklyn'' by Hubert Selby Jr. and ''The Balcony'' by Jean Genet.
        He produced around 60 Grove Press covers a year, at $50 a cover until the mid-'60s, when he raised his rate to $100. He also designed the original format for Evergreen Review, Grove's cultural magazine.
        In addition to painting, Mr. Kuhlman experimented with photographic techniques including photograms, made famous in work by Man Ray. He often combined these and other photographs with painting elements to achieve layers of image and color. When printed on glossy cover paper, the work achieved a vibrancy that was not common at that period.
        Meanwhile, Mr. Kuhlman also got a start in the advertising business from the famed art director Herb Lubalin at Sudler & Hennessy, and became an art director and designer for Columbia Records. Later he was hired by the public relations firm Ruder & Finn to establish an in-house art department, then joined Benton & Bowles, where he designed the award-winning I.B.M. ''Mathematics Serving Man'' campaign. I.B.M. also commissioned him to produce 700 slides and 52 live-action and animated shorts to promote computer sales. In 1962 he joined Electra Films to work on motion graphics and title sequences.
        After retiring as a designer in the '80s, he continued to make his own photographic experiments. In 1995 he was inducted into the Art Directors' Hall of Fame.
        He was married in the 1950s to Ellen Raskin, the graphic designer and children's book author and illustrator, who is deceased, and in 1961 he married Gilda Hannah, a professional book designer, with whom he had two children. Both marriages ended in divorce.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Mesa, he is survived by a son, Daniel Kuhlman of Denver, and a sister, Micky Moody of Las Vegas.
        Correction:  February 7, 2007, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Roy Kuhlman, a graphics designer for Grove Press who was noted for his abstract work, misspelled the given name of an abstract artist who was a friend of Barney Rosset, publisher of Grove Press. He was Willem de Kooning, not Wilhelm.
      