
        Bruce M. Metzger, an eminent scholar and translator of the Bible who oversaw the publication of a widely used modern edition that eliminated all the thees and thous and many of the hes, died on Tuesday in Princeton, N.J. He was 93 and a longtime Princeton resident.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his son John said. At his death, Dr. Metzger was emeritus professor of New Testament language and literature at Princeton Theological Seminary, where he had taught for more than 40 years.
        An ordained Presbyterian minister, Dr. Metzger was a world-renowned authority on translating the New Testament from the original Greek. He was best known to the general public for supervising the New Revised Standard Version of the Bible, which uses contemporary English and does away with much of the exclusively masculine language of previous translations. Introduced in 1990, the New Revised Standard Version is used in several formats by many Protestants, Roman Catholics and Eastern Orthodox Christians.
        Dr. Metzger also oversaw publication of The Reader's Digest Bible (1982), which condensed 850,000 words down to 510,000. He was an editor of the United Bible Societies' Greek New Testament, published in 1966, and a past chairman of the American Bible Society's committee on translation.
        As a scholar, Dr. Metzger was known in particular for his close textual studies of the New Testament and the Apocryphal literature, books that are not part of a recognized canon. He also wrote about the Bible as it was rendered by Eastern branches of the church -- Greek, Slavonic, Georgian, Ethiopic, Syrian and Armenian -- drawing on his command of ancient and modern languages. Besides Greek, Latin and Hebrew, Dr. Metzger knew Coptic, Syriac, Russian, German, Spanish, French and Dutch, among others.
        Among his dozens of books are ''The Early Versions of the New Testament: Their Origin, Transmission, and Limitations'' (Clarendon, 1977); ''Manuscripts of the Greek Bible: An Introduction to Greek Palaeography'' (Oxford University, 1981); ''Breaking the Code: Understanding the Book of Revelation'' (Abingdon, 1993); and ''The Bible in Translation: Ancient and English Versions'' (Baker Academic, 2001). With Michael D. Coogan, Dr. Metzger edited The Oxford Companion to the Bible, published in 1993.
        Bruce Manning Metzger was born in Middletown, Pa., on Feb. 9, 1914. He earned a bachelor's degree in Latin and Greek from Lebanon Valley College in 1935. In 1938, he received a bachelor's in theology from Princeton Theological Seminary, and in 1939, the year he was ordained, a master's degree. He earned a Ph.D. in classics from Princeton University in 1942.
        A teaching fellow at the seminary in 1938 and 1939, Dr. Metzger joined its regular faculty in 1940. In 1964, he was named the George L. Collord Professor of New Testament Language and Literature. He retired in 1984.
        Dr. Metzger is survived by his wife, the former Isobel Mackay, whom he married in 1944. (Her father, John Alexander Mackay, was president of Princeton Theological Seminary for many years.) Also surviving are two sons, John, of Princeton, and James, of Toledo, Ohio; and a sister, Edith Metzger Booser, of Middletown, Pa.
        To the task of revising the Bible, Dr. Metzger brought his prodigious scholarship and keen linguistic skills. The New Revised Standard Version was an authorized revision of the Revised Standard Version, issued in 1952.
        Under Dr. Metzger's direction, a committee of 30 scholars labored for more than a decade to produce an English translation that was accessibly modern yet rigorously historically accurate. They pored over the more than 50 translations of the Bible issued since 1952 and, using scholarly methods unavailable to earlier translators, sifted the original Hebrew and Greek texts.
        The committee swept away many archaisms, conspicuously the pronouns ''thee,'' ''thou'' and ''thine'' and the verbs ''art,'' ''hast'' and ''hadst.'' More difficult was finding a neutral alternative to the text's abundant masculine pronouns. In the end, in a decision that was criticized by some fundamentalist Christians who said it was overly inclusive and by some feminists who said it was not inclusive enough, the committee recast the Bible's male pronouns wherever they had a clearly generic reading.
        For instance, the line from Matthew 4:4, ''Man does not live by bread alone,'' became ''One does not live by bread alone.'' God, however, remained a he.
        As they performed their linguistic microsurgery, Dr. Metzger and the committee kept alert for words that by the late 20th century had taken on other meanings. ''I will accept no bull from your house,'' from Psalms 50:9, became, in their translation, ''I will not accept a bull from your house.''
        Then there was II Corinthians 11:25, part of which in the new version became ''Once I received a stoning.'' In the previous version it read, ''Once I was stoned.''
      