
        David Berger, a lawyer who achieved fame, fortune and influence by helping to expand the ability of groups of people to file suits jointly in federal courts, died on Thursday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 94.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said in a statement.
        Mr. Berger was one of the first lawyers in the United States to apply the class-action rule in the federal courts to antitrust violations. Class action is a legal procedure used to more efficiently pursue a lawsuit in which a large number of people claim to have been injured by a common act or group of actions.
        Beginning in 1963, he filed a series of class-action cases alleging price-fixing by industries that included rock salt, cast-iron railway wheels, concrete pipes and copper tubing.
        One of his best-known cases was a nationwide class-action suit in 1971 by service station operators against all the major oil companies, demanding the right to sell any brand of gasoline. In a settlement in 1984, his 50,000 clients not only won the right they demanded, but also $37 million in damages.
        Among the cases that he and his firm litigated were the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania, where he won $25 million for neighboring residents and $5 million for a public health fund to study the effects of low-level radiation exposure they had experienced.
        He represented shareholders of the bankrupt Penn Central Railroad in their litigation with the federal government; schools suing asbestos suppliers; and utility shareholders who alleged violations of securities laws in the construction of nuclear power plants.
        ''In all these cases, we were always up against the toughest, best and richest lawyers in the country,'' Mr. Berger said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1985. ''It was a forced-march, scorched-earth battle all the way.''
        In his heyday in the 1970s, Mr. Berger was part of a band of class-action lawyers who regularly terrified companies, often persuading them to settle rather than pay damages imposed by the court. They included Harold Kohn, a partner in Mr. Berger's Philadelphia law firm; Abe Pomerantz of New York; and David Shapiro of Washington.
        These legal hired warriors did not charge an hourly fee, but profited -- often hugely -- when their armies of clients won. They got nothing when their clients lost.
        In the 1960s, the federal judiciary changed its rules to make it easier to file class actions, mainly to uphold existing civil rights legislation. Mr. Kohn and Mr. Berger were among the first to realize the opportunity this provided for price-fixing suits with their victory against electrical equipment manufacturers.
        Mr. Berger was born in Archbald, Pa. He graduated first in his class from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1936, then stayed on for two years assisting the law school's administrators. He later was a law clerk for the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
        He was an officer on several Navy ships in the South Pacific during World War II, then served on the personal staff of Adm. William F. Halsey, commander of the South Pacific Theater of Naval Operations.
        He returned to Philadelphia to be a trial lawyer, then was appointed solicitor for the City of Philadelphia's law department. Among his jobs was helping set up the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority, Philadelphia's regional transportation system.
        In 1956, after a police officer shoved a news photographer against a wall during a demonstration, Mr. Berger ruled that journalists have news-gathering rights even during emergencies. He also ruled that traffic violations were not crimes, but ''abuse of the privilege of driving.''
        In 1963, he returned to private practice. Six years later, he ran for Philadelphia district attorney and lost.
        Mr. Berger's marriage to Harriet Fleisher Berger ended in divorce. He is survived by his sons, Jonathan and Daniel; his brothers, Harold and Joseph; and two grandchildren.
      