
        George C. Izenour, a pioneer in theater design and technology who helped bring automation to stagecraft, died Saturday in Philadelphia. He was 94.
        The death was announced by Jeffrey Milet, a partner in Mr. Izenour's theater design consulting company, George C. Izenour Associates.
        In 1947, working in his lab in an abandoned squash court at Yale University, Mr. Izenour developed a electronic dimming system for stage lighting, the first of its kind. The invention, which came to be known as the Izenour system, allowed one operator watching the performance from the back of the theater to do what previously involved two or three operators backstage making manual adjustments.
        The Izenour system was used in television studios and theaters across the country, though it took almost 17 years to reach Broadway.
        A year after introducing his lighting system, Mr. Izenour (pronounced I-zen-our) made a similar innovation in scenery work, inventing an electronic winch system to move scenery by remote control.
        In the 1950s, Mr. Izenour was asked by Harvard University to design the theater for the Loeb Drama Center in Cambridge, Mass. There was a catch: the university wanted a theater that could convert easily from a proscenium stage (the kind in most Broadway theaters, with a large arch framing the stage) to a thrust stage (which extends into the audience on three sides).
        Mr. Izenour designed a theater that could be converted from one stage type to the other by a process, part manual and part electronic, that took about 15 minutes. Mr. Izenour was soon offered contracts to build more convertible theaters, and now Izenour theaters can be found in Canada, Israel, Venezuela and across the United States.
        George Charles Izenour was born on July 24, 1912, in New Brighton, Pa., the son of an electrical contractor. He went to Wittenberg College in Springfield, Ohio, where he also earned a master's degree in physics. His thesis work led to the design of the Izenour system.
        He married a classmate, Hildegard Hilt, and they moved to California, where he became lighting director of the Federal Theater there.
        His wife died in 2002; their son Steven Izenour, an influential architect, died the year before.
        In 1939, with a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, Mr. Izenour moved to the Yale School of Drama to establish the electromechanical laboratory, where he would work for 38 years.
        While at Yale, he also worked as a theater design and engineering consultant, advising the Metropolitan Opera Company and the Julliard School of Music on technical matters and helping to design more than 100 theaters across the country.
        There are no Izenour theaters on Broadway, however.
        ''Broadway is not for me,'' he said in a 1959 interview with The New York Times. ''I am a radical to those real estate operators.''
      