
        Jay Kennedy, who as editor in chief of King Features Syndicate revived ''Prince Valiant'' and introduced the popular newspaper comic strips ''Curtis,'' ''Mutts'' and ''Zits,'' died on Thursday in Costa Rica. He was 50 and lived in New York City and Orient Point, N.Y.
        He drowned in a riptide while on vacation, his brother Bruce said.
        Mr. Kennedy was a scholar of comics, especially 1960s-era underground comic strips. In 1988 he got what he called his dream job as deputy comics editor of King Features, part of Hearst Corporation that has championed the ''funnies'' since 1915. He became editor in chief in 1997.
        In addition to reviving old standbys like ''Prince Valiant'' with new artist-writer teams, he enthusiastically championed new work and developed young artists and writers; he would routinely spend months before a strip's premiere mapping out characters and story lines to determine whether the artist had the required vision and staying power.
        The daily ''Mutts,'' an expressively drawn strip about a little dog and cat by Patrick McDonnell, a former editorial illustrator, was one of Mr. Kennedy's proudest accomplishments. ''Zits'' by Jerry Scott and Jim Borgman achieved the most widespread circulation of any he introduced. And ''Curtis'' by Ray Billingsley was one of the few national comics featuring African-American characters.
        Mr. Kennedy once said that he loved cartooning as an art form ''accessible to all people.''
        ''They can simply laugh at the jokes or look beyond them to see the artist's view of the world,'' he said.
        Born in Toledo, Ohio, and reared in Ridgewood, N.J., Mr. Kennedy dated his interest in drawing and comics back to his boyhood memories of ''Tintin.'' Before graduating from the University of Wisconsin at Madison with a sociology degree, he studied sculpture and conceptual art at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan.
        From 1983 to 1988, he was cartoon editor of Esquire magazine. At the same time, he worked as a cartoon consultant for magazines and publishers, including People and Whittle Communications. He was guest editor for the ''European Humor'' issue of The National Lampoon in 1985. He wrote articles about the history of cartooning and profiled cartoonists and contemporary comics for magazines including New Age Journal, Heavy Metal, New York and Escape, an English bimonthly. In 1982 he edited ''The Underground Comix Guide.''
        To fill a void in the cartooning world, Mr. Kennedy also actively sought out female cartoonists for the syndicate, overseeing the strips ''Rhymes With Orange'' by Hilary Price, ''Between Friends'' by Sandra Bell-Lundy and ''Tina's Groove'' by Rina Piccolo. He also created Six Chix, which presents the work of six female cartoonists in rotation.
        In 2006 Mr. Kennedy introduced Dailyink.com, which now makes available more than 70 current and vintage strips, including ''Buz Sawyer.'' He was working on a history of the underground press based largely on his own collection.
        In addition to his brother Bruce, of Brooklyn, Mr. Kennedy is survived by his mother, Jean M. Kennedy of Wilmington, Del.; another brother, Mark W. Kennedy of Allentown, Pa.; and a sister, Janet J. Kennedy of Centennial, Colo. His wife, Sarah Jewler, who was managing editor of New York magazine, died in 2005.
      