
        Ernie Ladd, a massive defensive tackle turned wrestler who was the only man elected to the American Football League Hall of Fame and the World Wrestling Entertainment Hall of Fame, died Saturday at his home in Franklin, La. He was 68.
        The cause was colon cancer, which had spread to the stomach and bones, his son Rodney said.
        Ladd played 112 consecutive A.F.L. games in eight years, with the San Diego Chargers (1961-65), the Houston Oilers (1966) and the Kansas City Chiefs (1967-68). In the years before the A.F.L. merged with the N.F.L. in 1970, he played in three A.F.L. championship games and the first Super Bowl, in 1967, before becoming a full-time wrestler.
        Ladd was the largest player of his time: 6 feet 9 inches and 315 pounds, with a 52-inch chest, 39-inch waist, 20-inch biceps, 19-inch neck and 18D shoes. His quickness despite his size earned him the nickname Big Cat.
        In 1966, Sam DeLuca of the Jets, who at 6-2 and 245 pounds was hardly small, told The New York Times what it felt like playing against Ladd. ''Sometimes, he almost beats you on every play,'' DeLuca said. ''You wind up on the ground. If it wasn't for his size, I'd enjoy playing against him.''
        Ladd overpowered blockers until he abandoned football for wrestling. His professional wrestling career started when he was playing football.
        ''After a few years, I was making so much money wrestling in the off-season that I figured I could make a lot more by giving up football and wrestling full time,'' Ladd told The Times. ''I quit football at 28 and still had several good years left. That first year wrestling, I made $98,000, and after that never made less than a hundred grand a year. That was big money back in the '60s.''
        In that era, as now, the outcomes of wrestling matches were scripted, and the good guys included Bruno Sammartino, Gorilla Monsoon and Bobo Brazil. They invariably won. Ladd was a villain and usually won, too. He said it was his idea to be a bad guy.
        ''That's when the real fun began,'' he said. ''I was too big to get sympathy by getting beat on, so I made a much better heel.''
        He wrestled until 1986, when bad knees forced him to stop and to use a wheelchair most of the time. In later years, when he spoke at churches and prisons, he had to walk down stairways backward.
        Ladd, a native of Rayville, La., was reared in Orange, Tex. His high school coach was Willie Ray Smith Sr., the father of the College Hall of Fame football player Bubba Smith. Ladd attended Grambling State University in Louisiana on a basketball scholarship.
        He is survived by his wife, Roslyn; three sons, Ernie and Rodney, of Franklin, and Reginald, of Houston; a daughter, Erika Peters of Broussard, La.; 16 grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; two sisters, Jamesetta and Louella, both of Houston; and a brother, James, of Woscom, Tex.
        Ladd left lasting impressions on many people. According to ProWrestling.com, his football coach at Grambling, Eddie Robinson, once said: ''The first year he was here, he taught me a lesson. He told me how good he was. Sure, I'd say. Then he hurt somebody. I'd feel sorry for the people he was tackling.''
        Jon Morris, one of the top centers in the A.F.L., said that he was struck by Ladd's size. When he played head to head against Ladd, he said: ''It was dark. I couldn't see the linebackers. Couldn't see the goalposts. It was like being locked in a closet.''
        Correction:  March 24, 2007, Saturday  An obituary on March 14 about Ernie Ladd, who was the only man elected to both the American Football League Hall of Fame and the World Wrestling Entertainment Hall of Fame, referred incorrectly to some of his football accomplishments. He did not play in the first Super Bowl in 1967, and he played in four -- not three -- A.F.L. championship games.
      