
        Mai Ghoussoub, who weaved together elements of her Arab heritage and an avant-garde sensibility to make bold, provocative statements as a publisher, author, sculptor, journalist and playwright, died on Feb. 17 in London. She was 54.
        Her death was announced by Saqi Books, her publishing house. It did not give a cause.
        In 1977 Ms. Ghoussoub left her native Lebanon during its civil war after losing an eye from a gunshot wound. She sought medical treatment in Paris and stayed for two years before moving to London.
        She and her friend Andre Gaspard in 1979 opened Al Saqi Bookshop, which became a beacon of Arab culture in London. In 1983 they started Saqi Books, an Arabic-language publishing house, which printed works too daring for most Arab publishers, including an examination of gay and lesbian love in the Middle East.
        They added the Arabic publishing house Dar al Saqi in Beirut to their operations in 1990.
        Eight years later, Ms. Ghoussoub published ''Leaving Beirut: Women and the Wars Within,'' a memoir festooned with postmodern literary touches. The Daily Star, an English-language newspaper in Beirut, said the book had ''become required reading for anyone, foreign or native, harboring a love-hate fascination with the city.''
        A character in ''Leaving Beirut'' emphasized that there was more to Beirut than tragedy: ''The truth was I was fed up with the sweet smiles that appeared on the faces of good-hearted Western liberals and leftists when they found out where you'd come from, and 'what you must have gone through.' I found myself always wanting to tell them about the fun we had too, and the nastinesses we can be capable of, just like anybody else on this planet.''
        In 2000 Ms. Ghoussoub and Emma Sinclair-Webb edited ''Imagined Masculinities: Male Identity and Culture in the Modern Middle East,'' a collection of essays that captured wide notice.
        Ms. Ghoussoub rushed out one of the first books on the events of Sept. 11, 2001. Other books published by her house included an examination of the role of the veil among Arab women and the traumatic effects of the Crusades.
        A play she wrote, ''Divas,'' had a transsexual as a central character. She first produced it in Beirut to affirm what she saw as a daring new art scene there.
        Ms. Ghoussoub made her sculpture from metal, plaster, resin, cloth and wire, among other materials. She liked to use dramatic lighting effects and elements of surprise. One work depicted Genghis Khan offering a bouquet of flowers to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. She had exhibitions in several countries, including the United States.
        She wrote books in English, Arabic and French and said her art and writing were closely related. ''I write for my sculptures and I sculpt for my words,'' she said.
        Mai Ghoussoub was born on Nov. 2, 1952, in Beit Shabab, a mountain town, and grew up in Beirut, where she was considered a tomboy for preferring sports to dolls. She attended a French-language high school, then simultaneously earned degrees in mathematics at American University in Beirut and in literature at the Lebanese University.
        In an interview in 2001, she said that she and her generation were inspired by the student uprising in Paris in 1968. ''We listened to wild Sufi music, read Simone de Beauvoir, and met in the streets to discuss feminism, the sexual revolution and radical politics,'' she said.
        Before she left Lebanon for Paris, she and Mr. Gaspard helped establish two medical dispensaries in areas where there were no pharmacies and from which doctors had fled. Their group negotiated for the release of Christian hostages, but not always successfully; the body of one prisoner they had demanded was dumped at their doorstep.
        Ms. Ghoussoub is survived by her husband, Hazem Saghiyeh; her parents, Antoine and Maggie Ghoussoub; and her sister, Hoda.
        Some of Ms. Ghoussoub's writing was startlingly imaginative, as in a short story she published last year called ''Red Lips.'' It describes a convent packed with shaven-headed, ''unmarriagable'' girls who go wild when visitors bring lipstick. Years of suppressed desires suddenly explode as they scrawl themselves in scarlet designs.
        Other times, she commented on current events. In 2004, after the disclosure of torture at Abu Ghraib, the American prison in Iraq, she wrote, ''All I can do is scream through my keyboard.''
      