
        Ernst Haefliger, a Swiss tenor who was most renowned as an interpreter of German art song and oratorio roles, died on Saturday in Davos, Switzerland, where he maintained a second home. He was 87 and lived in Vienna.
        Charlotte Schroeder, his American manager, announced his death.
        Mr. Haefliger was a graceful singer with a flexible, lyrical voice that served him well in recitals -- particularly in Schubert lieder -- and made him an ideal Evangelist in Bach's St. Matthew Passion and St. John Passion, or an eloquent Tamino in Mozart's ''Magic Flute.'' He sang most of the Mozart tenor roles, as well the tenor roles in non-operatic scores like Mahler's ''Lied von der Erde,'' Bach's Mass in B minor and the Beethoven Ninth Symphony.
        Ernst Haefliger (pronounced HEFF-ligger) was born in Davos on July 6, 1919, and studied at the Wettinger Seminary and the Zurich Conservatory before moving to Vienna, where he became a student of the tenor Julius Patzak. At first he focused on the recital and choral repertory, and in 1942, he made his public debut as the Evangelist in Bach's St. John Passion, in Geneva. He also sang in the first performances of several works by the Swiss composer Frank Martin, including ''Le Vin Herbé'' in 1941, ''In Terra Pax'' in 1945, and ''Golgotha'' in 1949.
        At the urging of the conductor Ferenc Fricsay, with whom he went on to record several Mozart operas and Beethoven's ''Fidelio,'' Mr. Haefliger began studying opera as well, and joined the Zurich Opera in 1943.
        His first important operatic appearance outside Switzerland was as Tiresias in the premiere of Carl Orff's ''Oedipus,'' at the Salzburg Festival in 1949. In 1952, he left the Zurich Opera and joined the Städische Oper (later the Deutsche Oper), in Berlin, where he remained one of the company's principal lyric tenors until he left the roster in 1974.
        Mr. Haefliger made his debut at Glyndebourne in 1956, as Tamino, and at the Lyric Opera of Chicago, in the same role, in 1966. In the United States, however, he was heard mainly in recitals and in the Bach Passions. In recent years, he appeared as the Speaker in Schoenberg's ''Gurrelieder'' with James Levine and the Met Orchestra at Carnegie Hall in 2001; he sang Schubert's ''Winterreise'' in a recital at the Metropolitan Museum of Art with his son the pianist Andreas Haefliger in 1995.
        Mr. Haefliger taught for many years at the Munich Hochschule für Musik and published a book, ''Die Singstimme'' (''The Singing Voice''), in 1983. In 2006, the Ernst Haefliger Competition was established in his honor in Switzerland.
        In addition to his son Andreas, Mr. Haefliger is survived by his wife of 53 years, Anna Golin Haefliger; another son, Michael Haefliger, who is the artistic and executive director of the Lucerne Festival; and a daughter, Christine Marecek.
      