
        Bob Hattoy, who drew wide attention with a nationally televised speech about AIDS at the 1992 Democratic National Convention and then became a forceful advocate for gay and lesbian issues in the Clinton White House, died on Sunday in Sacramento. He was 56.
        The cause was complications of AIDS, said Adrianna Shea, special assistant at the California Fish and Game Commission, where Mr. Hattoy was the newly appointed president.
        ''President Clinton learned a valuable lesson when he appointed Bob Hattoy to work in the White House: Never hire a dying man; he has nothing to lose,'' Richard L. Berke wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1993. Mr. Hattoy himself joked that he had gotten the job only because everyone thought he would die in no time.
        As it turned out, he outlived the Clinton presidency by more than six years.
        Mr. Hattoy had just learned he had AIDS when he took the stage at the Democratic convention at Mr. Clinton's behest. ''We are part of the American family,'' he said, addressing himself to the incumbent president, George H. Bush. ''And, Mr. President, your family has AIDS, and we are dying, and you are doing nothing about it.''
        ''I don't want to die,'' he said. ''But I don't want to live in an America where the president sees me as the enemy. I can face dying because of a disease, but not because of politics.''
        His words riveted a nationwide audience. ''Bob Hattoy gave people with AIDS and gays in America hope with that speech,'' said Michael Petrelis, a writer and an activist.
        At the White House, Mr. Hattoy was an associate director of personnel. But he was a link to a constituency that had never had a vocal advocate in the West Wing. In his own words, he would go out to talk to his constituency, ''bring back the White House's thinking to them, and get beat up for being a sellout.'' Then he would turn around, ''report to the White House and get beat up for being the messenger.''
        When the new president said he would consider limiting the military deployments of gay and lesbian service members, Mr. Hattoy likened it to ''restricting gays and lesbians to jobs as florists and hairdressers'' in civilian life. He was wrist-slapped for speaking out, but he kept talking.
        ''He was an agitator in the best sense of the word,'' said Richard Socarides, who was a special assistant to Mr. Clinton in charge of gay and lesbian policies. ''Bob often meant trouble, because Bob was never satisfied.''
        From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Hattoy was White House liaison to the Interior Department. Mr. Clinton also named him to the Presidential Commission on H.I.V./AIDS. He was appointed to the California Fish and Game Commission in 2002 and became its president last month.
        Robert Keith Hattoy was born on Nov. 1, 1950, in Providence, R.I, the son of a mechanical engineer and a school registrar. He is survived by a brother and a sister.
        Mr. Hattoy became politically active protesting the Vietnam War; he said he considered politics a form of lifesaving. He dropped in and out of college and worked at Disneyland and for a Los Angeles city councilman. At 28, he found his calling at the Sierra Club, where he worked for a decade on environmental justice and as a regional director for California and Nevada.
        He joined Mr. Clinton's campaign and became his leading environmental adviser. Then, in June 1992, he learned he had AIDS. A few weeks later, he told the world about it.
      