
        Howard P. Ronson, a British real estate developer who in the 1980s became one of the most prolific builders of office space in Manhattan, died Wednesday near his home in Monaco. He was 63.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said Larry Wyman, a principal in the HRO Group, where Mr. Ronson was chairman.
        The HRO Group is the parent company of HRO France and HRO International, the New York-based development firm that Mr. Ronson started in 1980.
        Mr. Ronson came to New York in 1979, when Manhattan's commercial real estate market was in a recession. Within three years, he had four major construction projects going at the same time.
        Since 1980, HRO International has built 12 office towers, with about 5.5 million square feet of space, in Manhattan. Among them are the 33-story Tower 56 on East 56th Street; 380 Madison Avenue, which is between 46th and 47th Streets and has 26 floors; and the 30-story Broad Financial Center on Whitehall Street.
        In 1981, excavation for one of the company's buildings, at 175 Water Street near the South Street Seaport, was halted by Mr. Ronson after the hull of a 92-foot merchant ship from the mid-1700s was unearthed. The bow was removed for restoration and sent to the Mariners' Museum in Newport News, Va. A 30-story building now stands at 175 Water Street.
        At 32 Old Slip, Mr. Ronson's company built Financial Square, a 33-story building with a granite and silver-tinted glass facade. It had been the site of the United States Assay Office, where thousands of pounds of gold and silver were once stored and damaged paper money was incinerated.
        Howard Philip Ronson was born on May 28, 1943, the son of Anne and Gerald Ronson. His father was a homebuilder in England. Mr. Ronson is survived by his wife, the former Angelika Ivanc; two daughters, Gisele and Livia; a stepson, Stanley Shashoua of Manhattan; and a sister, Benita Refson, of London.
        After graduating from Carmel College in England, Mr. Ronson joined his father's homebuilding company in 1963. The company was at the center of a controversy in the late 1960s when large numbers of homebuyers complained about poor construction. An investigation by Britain's Department of Trade and Industry found ''gross mismanagement.''
        Mr. Ronson started his career in commercial development in 1968. In addition to the New York buildings, more than 40 construction projects, including office towers and shopping malls, have been completed by his companies in nine European cities.
      