
        Natalie Bodanya, an American soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera in the 1930s and early '40s and who later became a voice teacher, died on Sunday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 98.
        Her death was announced by her son, Paul Gorman.
        Natalie Bodanskaya -- she later shortened her name to avoid confusion with the conductor Artur Bodanzky -- was born in Manhattan on Aug. 23, 1908, and grew up in a tenement on the Upper East Side. Her singing attracted the attention of neighbors and an employee of the neighborhood music school, the Union Settlement, who arranged an audition for her with the legendary soprano Marcella Sembrich. Ms. Sembrich was impressed enough to take her under her wing as a student and helped to steer her to the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia.
        After graduating from Curtis and seeking a job in New York, Ms. Bodanya had a successful Metropolitan Opera audition with Edward Johnson and landed the role of Micaela in ''Carmen,'' making her debut in the spring season of 1936. She sang with the house for the next five years, sometimes as Micaela or Musetta in Puccini's ''Bohème,'' but also in smaller roles like Yniold in Debussy's ''Pelléas et Mélisande'' or a page in Wagner's ''Parsifal.'' In 1938 she canceled engagements in Venice and Milan to protest the Italian government's anti-Semitic measures.
        In 1938 she married William Gorman, a philosophy professor who later collaborated with Mortimer J. Adler. She took a hiatus from performing to have a son, Paul. In addition to her son, she is survived by a granddaughter.
        In 1944 she returned to the stage with the New York City Opera, where she reprised Musetta and other roles. She made nightclub and radio appearances and recorded a few duets with Mario Lanza.
        She subsequently retired from singing and worked for many years as a voice teacher based in California; she also visited many colleges to teach scholarship students.
        Her most notorious moment at the Met came during the company's first performance of ''Il Matrimonio Segreto'' by Cimarosa, in 1937, when she lost her pantaloons onstage during the show and won an ovation for continuing with her aria while kicking them off the stage.
      