
        Marshall Rogers, a comic-book artist who made his name illustrating Batman at a significant period in 1977 and '78, was found dead by a family member on Saturday at his home in Fremont, Calif. He was 57.
        The cause has not been determined, said his sister, Suzanne R. Schmachtenberger, of Fort Collins, Colo.
        Mr. Rogers's work with the writer Steve Englehart on just six issues of Detective Comics was important in redefining Batman, returning him to his pulp roots as an urban vigilante and helping shake off the camp elements popularized by the Adam West television series a decade earlier. These ''Dark Detective'' stories, as they came to be known, laid the blueprint and set the tone for decades of future Batman stories.
        ''You could draw a comic for 30 years and not have the kind of impact that we did,'' Mr. Englehart said.
        Elements of the ''Dark Detective'' stories were the basis for Tim Burton's ''Batman'' film in 1989 and were adapted into animation in ''Batman: The Animated Series'' on television in the early '90s.
        Mr. Rogers drew highly detailed architectural features for the moody backdrops of Batman's exploits, down to the individual bricks in the buildings of Gotham, the noir metropolis.
        Mr. Englehart and Mr. Rogers reunited for a sequel to their original run, published by DC as ''Batman: Dark Detective.'' A third story was being planned when Mr. Rogers died.
        Born in Flushing, Queens, on Jan. 22, 1950, Marshall Rogers grew up in Ardsley, N.Y. He attended Kent State University in Ohio, where he studied architecture until 1971. That year his parents and sister moved to Colorado, and Mr. Rogers stayed behind on the East Coast to work in comics.
        He initially drew short backup stories beginning in December 1976, but was soon chosen by the prominent editor Julius Schwartz at DC Comics to draw the lead feature. As his Batman work was taking off, he was also selected to work on the ''Mister Miracle'' series (created by Jack Kirby) and others.
        He went on to other freelance projects, creating pinups for Marvel Comics publications like ''Howard the Duck'' and ''Star Wars'' before beginning a stint as the artist for ''Dr. Strange.'' In 1987 he again teamed up with Mr. Englehart on Marvel's ''Silver Surfer.''
        In addition to his sister, Mr. Rogers is survived by his stepson, Russell Young of Fremont; and his mother, Ann White Rogers of Littleton, Colo.
      