
        Myer Feldman, an aide to President John F. Kennedy who remained virtually unknown to the public while playing an integral role in planning his presidential campaign, White House press conferences and governmental policies, died Thursday in Bethesda, Md. He was 92.
        His son, James, announced the death. Mr. Feldman lived in Potomac, Md., and Miami.
        Mr. Feldman's importance was suggested in The New York Times Magazine in an article in 1962 about the prestige of having a low license-plate number in the District of Columbia. His number, 116, was the lowest of any White House official's.
        But an article in The New York Post in 1964 called Mr. Feldman ''the White House's anonymous man.''
        Mr. Feldman, a lawyer known as Mike, led a group assigned to find negative information about Kennedy's Republican opponent in the 1960 presidential race, Richard M. Nixon.
        They compiled a mountain of potential embarrassments nicknamed the Nixopedia, Theodore C. Sorensen, a Kennedy adviser, wrote in his book, ''Kennedy,'' in 1965. Mr. Sorensen was Mr. Feldman's direct superior at the White House, where Mr. Feldman held the title deputy special counsel.
        When Kennedy was preparing to counter critics of his Roman Catholicism in a crucial campaign speech in Houston, Mr. Feldman found Irish-sounding names of Texans who had died at the Alamo for Kennedy to use in the speech. More importantly, he helped prepare Kennedy for the televised debate with Nixon.
        Mr. Feldman was among a group who had breakfast with the president before news conferences. He was a behind-the-scenes liaison to Israel, a principal adviser on domestic policy and the channel for business requests, like tariffs and air routes.
        ''If Mike ever turned dishonest, we could all go to jail,'' Kennedy said, according to Mr. Sorensen.
        Mr. Feldman stayed on in the White House after Kennedy's death to serve President Lyndon B. Johnson. Johnson promoted him to special counsel.
        In Johnson's 1964 presidential race, Mr. Feldman reprised his dirty-tricks role by leading a secret campaign to demean Senator Barry M. Goldwater, Johnson's opponent. Among other tactics, they fed hostile questions to reporters who were following Mr. Goldwater, Robert Dallek wrote in ''Flawed Giant: Lyndon Johnson and His Times 1961-1973.''
        Myer Feldman was born on June 22, 1914, in Philadelphia. His father, a tailor, died in 1918 in the great influenza epidemic. He attended Girard College in Philadelphia, which was founded as a boarding school for fatherless boys ; he graduated at 16.
        He worked for a roofing company, then won a scholarship to the University of Pennsylvania. He went on to that university's law school, where he was on the law review.
        He taught at the law school until joining the Army Air Forces in 1942. After the war, he worked for the Securities and Exchange Commission, rising to executive assistant to the chairman. He went on to work for the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, where he met Mr. Sorensen, who was then an aide to Kennedy, who was then a senator.
        Through Mr. Sorensen, he became a legislative assistant to Kennedy, who gleefully assigned the city boy to agricultural issues.
        ''Mike, how are the crops?'' Kennedy would ask, The Post reported.
        Mr. Feldman was sent to meet quietly with Israeli leaders, particularly David Ben-Gurion and Golda Meir, about matters including arms sales, Palestinian refugees, and whether Israel was building a nuclear weapon.
        He remained a trusted liaison to the Kennedy family.
        In 1972, just after Senator George McGovern won the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. McGovern's advisers wanted Senator Edward M. Kennedy to be his running mate, Time magazine reported.
        Mr. Feldman was dispatched to the Kennedy compound in Hyannisport, Mass.
        ''Ted's not going to do it,'' he reported back.
        (Thomas F. Eagleton was chosen instead, but dropped out after disclosures of his psychiatric treatment. R. Sargent Shriver, a close friend of Mr. Feldman and the brother-in-law of Senator Kennedy, was then selected.)
        After Mr. Feldman left government service in 1965, he started a Washington law firm that grew to 100 attorneys; made many millions buying and selling radio stations; and helped finance the condominium boom in Washington in the 1970s.
        He participated in many more political campaigns, usually in the background, and his charitable work included being chairman of the executive committee of the Special Olympics.
        Mr. Feldman was a book review editor for the Saturday Review of Literature and helped produce six plays. In the Kennedy White House, where wit and intellect sometimes seemed a competitive sport, Mr. Feldman and Mr. Sorensen traded memos in rhyming couplets.
        Mr. Feldman and his first wife, Jackie Moskovitz, divorced in 1979. In addition to his son, James, of Washington, he is survived by his wife, Adrienne Arsht; his sister, Ethel Mufson, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Jane Feldman of Hermosa Beach, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      