
        Bishop G. E. Patterson, the presiding bishop of the Church of God in Christ, the nation's largest African-American Pentecostal denomination, died Tuesday in Memphis. He was 67 and lived in Memphis, where the church has its headquarters.
        The cause was heart failure, his nephew Milton T. Hawkins said.
        A son of a bishop of the Church of God in Christ, Bishop Patterson was elected leader of the denomination in 2000. Known for his vivid sermons, Bishop Patterson spread the Pentecostal word through regular Sunday services broadcast on the Word Network, the Trinity Broadcasting Network and Black Entertainment Television. His own congregation, Temple of Deliverance, which he founded in 1975, had more than 6,000 active members in 2000.
        At a 2005 church convention in Memphis, the bishop called on his membership to spread the faith beyond racial and cultural differences. ''I don't know why we ever got stuck on that thing that we're only supposed to give witness to black folks,'' he said.
        Pentecostalism, one of the fastest-growing evangelical movements, teaches that people can be filled with the Holy Ghost in a second baptism. Most Pentecostals also believe that speaking in tongues -- in inspired unintelligible utterances -- links believers to God and brings the word of God to other people.
        The Church of God in Christ has about six million members. The second-largest denomination in the black American Pentecostal movement, the Pentecostal Assemblies of the World, has about three million members.
        Gilbert Earl Patterson was born in Humboldt, Tenn., on Sept. 22, 1939, a son of Mary Louise and William A. Patterson. His father led churches in Memphis and later in Detroit.
        Ordained as a church elder in Detroit in 1957, Bishop Patterson attended LeMoyne-Owen College in Memphis and the Detroit Bible Institute. In 1975, he founded Temple of Deliverance. After he was elected bishop, he started Cogic Charities, which has raised more than $1 million to aid victims of disasters, including Hurricane Katrina. He was also editor and publisher of Bountiful Blessings Magazine, which has 100,000 subscribers.
        Bishop Patterson is survived by his wife of 40 years, the former Louise Dowdy; and three daughters, Mary Hawkins and Lee Ella Smith, both of Memphis, and Barbara Davis of Detroit.
        Correction:  March 23, 2007, Friday  An obituary yesterday about G. E. Patterson, the presiding bishop of the Church of God in Christ, misstated the relationship of some of his survivors. Mary Hawkins and Lee Ella Smith, both of Memphis, and Barbara Davis of Detroit are his sisters, not his daughters. The obituary also gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the name of the magazine of which he was editor and publisher. It is Bountiful Blessings Magazine, not Bountiful Blessing Magazine.
      