
        Erich Windisch, whose adjustment to an injured shoulder reshaped the sport of ski jumping, bringing competitors' arms to their sides, died Feb. 14 near his home in Vail, Colo. He was 89.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Sasha.
        It was during a tournament in his native Germany in 1949 that Windisch left his slightly arched arms pointing downward and -- to the surprise of his competitors and hundreds of spectators -- soared farther than all the other jumpers. Windisch had dislocated a shoulder during a practice run several weeks earlier.
        ''He did it to protect his shoulder,'' said Justin Henderson, curator of the Colorado Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame in Vail, into which Windisch was inducted in 1994. ''The traditional position was to have your arms forward, in a Superman kind of position.''
        There had been variations in style since ski jumping started in Norway in the late 1800s, Henderson said, ''but this was the benchmark event, for sure.''
        The position's aerodynamic advantage was soon demonstrated in wind-tunnel tests in Switzerland, but Henderson pointed out that the position also caught on quickly because the leap had happened at a large European meet.
        Erich Alfred Windisch was born in Shoeneck, Germany, on Jan. 14, 1918. He started skiing at 3 and won his first race at 7. During World War II, he was a captain with the German army's mountain troops in Russia. For five years in the late 1940s and early '50s, he was a member of the German national ski-jumping team, winning nine divisional and national championships. His best jump, in 1950, was 337 feet.
        Windisch moved to Colorado in 1947. Besides his daughter, he is survived by his wife, the former Elena Bercovici.
        For 39 years, he was an instructor and supervisor at the Vail Ski and Snowboard School, taking a particular interest in teaching beginners. In 1994, a trail on Vail Mountain leading to Golden Peak, the beginner's area on the mountain, was named Windisch Way.
        On the night of Feb. 21, a memorial service for Windisch was held on Golden Peak, during which 150 ski instructors, in parallel lines, swooped down a trail at Golden Peak, each carrying a torch.
      