
        Richard S. Prather, a hugely popular mystery writer of the 1950s and '60s whose novels were known for their swift violence, loopy humor and astonishing number of characters with no clothes on, died on Feb. 14 at his home in Sedona, Ariz. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of respiratory disease, his friend Linda Pendleton said.
        Mr. Prather (his surname rhymed with ''bather'') was best known for his three dozen novels featuring the private eye Shell Scott, a 6-foot-2 ex-marine with a broken nose, a bristling white buzz cut and an ear ravaged by a bullet he took in the Pacific theater. Among the titles in the series, most published by Fawcett, are ''Find This Woman'' (1951); ''Always Leave 'Em Dying'' (1954); ''Joker in the Deck'' (1964); ''The Kubla Khan Caper'' (Trident, 1966); and ''Gat Heat'' (Trident, 1967).
        The Shell Scott novels have sold more than 40 million copies, according to the reference work Contemporary Authors. Most are now out of print.
        Though the writing may strike some modern readers as dated (''She'd just turned 21, but had obviously signaled for the turn a long time ago''), the books retain an ardent cult following, prized for their tongue-in-cheek irreverence and plots that carom between the self-consciously campy and the unapologetically bizarre.
        Where the stars of most hard-boiled detective novels were dour, cynical and soaked in alcohol, Mr. Prather's hero was cheeky, happy-go-lucky and soaked in alcohol. He collected tropical fish. He tooled around Hollywood in a canary-yellow Cadillac. (It was robin's-egg blue in later books.) Mainly, he ogled women (''frails,'' ''dolls,'' ''babes'' and ''tomatoes,'' in the novels' parlance), who were ubiquitous, available and, judging both from Mr. Prather's descriptions and the books' paperback covers, preternaturally well endowed.
        Reviewing Mr. Prather's novel ''Take a Murder, Darling'' (1958) in The New York Times Book Review, Anthony Boucher called Shell Scott ''as amusingly blithe a figure as the field has seen since the Saint.''
        If Mr. Prather's work had a unifying theme, it was the human body -- or, more precisely, the human body with nothing between it and the mild air of Southern California, where most of the books were set. In ''Strip for Murder'' (1955), Scott goes undercover in a nudist colony. He has no place to put his gun.
        In ''The Wailing Frail'' (1956), the hero knocks on a door only to have it answered by a woman ''nude as a noodle.''
        In ''The Cockeyed Corpse'' (1964), he infiltrates a western movie set by disguising himself as a rock. To the rock's delight, the film's cast turns out to be all female, and all naked.
        And so on.
        Richard Scott Prather was born on Sept. 9, 1921, in Santa Ana, Calif. He spent a year at Riverside Junior College, and from 1942 to 1945 served in the merchant marine. After the war, he worked as a clerk at March Air Force Base, near Riverside, before quitting his job to write full time. His first Shell Scott novel, ''Case of the Vanishing Beauty,'' was published in 1950. Mr. Prather also wrote under the pseudonyms David Knight and Douglas Ring.
        Mr. Prather's wife, the former Tina Hager, whom he married in 1945, died in 2004. No immediate family members survive.
        In 1986 Mr. Prather received a Life Achievement Award from the Private Eye Writers of America. Among his other Shell Scott titles are ''Three's a Shroud'' (1957); ''Have Gat -- Will Travel'' (1957); ''Slab Happy'' (1958); and ''The Trojan Hearse'' (Pocket Books, 1964). He also edited a well-received crime anthology, ''The Comfortable Coffin,'' published by Fawcett in 1960.
        Mr. Prather kept Shell Scott alive for nearly four decades: his last books in the series, ''The Amber Effect'' and ''Shellshock,'' were published by Tor Books in 1986 and 1987. Happily for all concerned, the hero remained a virile 30 years old for the duration.
      