
        Antonio Ortiz Mena, who as Mexico's finance minister in the 1960s was the architect of a period of remarkable growth known as the ''Mexican miracle,'' died on Monday. He was 99.
        According to news reports, he died at a hospital in Mexico City where he was recuperating from a fall at his house two weeks ago. The Treasury Department and the Inter-American Development Bank confirmed his death but gave no further details.
        Mr. Ortiz Mena, who went on to serve as the second president of the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington, oversaw a policy of fiscal prudence and public investment.
        Although Mexico's economy began to grow after the end of World War II, it was while Mr. Ortiz Mena was finance minister, from 1958 to 1970, that economic growth accelerated.
        ''The achievements were impressive,'' Pedro Aspe, the finance minister in the early 1990s, wrote in an e-mail message. ''With a population growth double that it is today, the per-capita income was growing at an astounding 3.4 percent annually for 12 years.''
        During that time, economic growth averaged 6 percent a year while inflation often remained below 3 percent. Millions of Mexicans entered the middle class, and the country began its transformation from a largely rural economy to an industrial one.
        But after he left, two successive presidents embarked on economic policies characterized by runaway spending and excessive borrowing that undid many of his accomplishments.
        After Mr. Ortiz Mena's tenure, Mexico lurched from financial crisis to crisis for roughly a quarter-century. While a return to close fiscal management and a tight monetary policy have restored stability over the last decade, the economy has at times grown anemically.
        In an era of globalization these days, many of Mr. Ortiz Mena's policies -- like his protection of local industry and a policy of replacing imported goods with locally made ones -- seem outdated. Mexico has entered the free-market camp.
        Mr. Ortiz Mena was born in Parral in the northern state of Chihuahua on April 16, 1907. A lawyer by profession, he was a graduate of the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He held a series of government posts before becoming finance minister under President Adolfo López Mateos and continuing under President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz.
        In 1970, he was named president of the Inter-American Development Bank, one of the World Bank's regional financiers, and he remained there until his retirement in 1988. During his tenure there, lending increased tenfold, to $40 billion in 1987 from $4 billion in 1970, the bank said.
        While the Inter-American bank concentrated most of its efforts during that time on lending to build Latin American infrastructure projects and heavy industries, Mr. Ortiz Mena also set up the bank's first financing operations for microenterprise.
        He resigned in 1988 at a time of tension over perceptions in the region that the Reagan administration was trying to control the bank.
        Mr. Ortiz Mena was a stalwart of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which governed Mexico for 71 years until 2000. As finance minister, he was considered a possible candidate for the presidency.
        In 1994, a dinner was held at his home at which the president of the party asked Mexico's top business executives to contribute $25 million each to the party. When an account appeared in newspapers, it was an enormous embarrassment to the party, although he was spared public outrage.
        Mr. Ortiz Mena is survived by his wife, Martha Salinas de Ortiz Mena, six children and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      