
        Martin A. Trow, a sociologist whose research on higher education reverberated through North America and Europe, particularly his description of the transition of a college education from elite privilege to mass product, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 80.
        The cause was a brain tumor, according to an announcement by the University of California, Berkeley, where he taught and was an administrator.
        Dr. Trow's work, in more than 150 articles and 11 books, included the comparative study of educational systems, the problems of learning and teaching, the status and academic freedom of university professors, and quality assessment.
        His paper for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in 1973 about the effects of universal access to higher education has been discussed for decades.
        ''The growth of enrollments,'' Dr. Trow wrote, ''and the movement toward universal higher education, has made enrollment in college increasingly obligatory for many students, and their presence there 'increasingly involuntary.'
        ''In this respect, colleges begin to resemble elementary and secondary schools, where it has long been recognized that compulsory attendance increases problems of student motivation, boredom and the maintenance of order.''
        In 1971, Dr. Trow and A. H. Halsey of Oxford wrote ''The British Academics,'' warning that the costs of a planned expansion of British higher education meant an end to amenities that professors and students had come to expect.
        ''Democratization of higher education had to manage with economics,'' they wrote. ''The party was over.''
        Dr. Trow often contributed to education debates, repeatedly questioning efforts to quantify intellectual progress. In an interview with The Associated Press in 2001, he said learning to think ''doesn't really lend itself to these sort of metrics.''
        He advised university and government education officials in Europe and the United States, where he headed or served on panels appointed by the federal Education Department and the National Research Council, among other bodies.
        Martin Trow was born on June 21, 1926, in Brooklyn. His studies at the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J., were interrupted by service in the Navy in World War II. He returned to Stevens and received a mechanical engineering degree. He went to work as an engineer while attending night classes at what was then called the New School for Social Research.
        He enrolled as a doctoral candidate at Columbia, where he studied with the sociologist Robert K. Merton, who is often credited with coining phrases like ''role model'' and ''unintended consequences.''
        Dr. Trow teamed with two other Columbia doctoral candidates, James S. Coleman and Seymour Martin Lipset, to write ''Union Democracy: The Internal Politics of the International Typographical Union'' (1956). The work examined the union's success in democratic, rather than oligarchic, governance.
        He taught at Bennington College from 1953 to 1957, when he moved to Berkeley. In 1964, he found himself appalled by the behavior of protesters in the Free Speech Movement. In an interview with The New York Sun in 2004, he noted their ''sheer incivility.'' The protests provoked a split in the sociology department, and Dr. Trow left, moving to what is now the Goldman School of Public Policy. From 1976 to 1988, Dr. Trow was director of the Center for Studies of Higher Education at Berkeley. He had high posts in the governing bodies of Berkeley and the entire University of California system, retiring in 1993.
        Surviving are his wife, Katherine; two sons, Paul, of Natick, Mass., and Peter, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a daughter, Sarah Eydam of Antioch, Calif.; and a grandson.
        In 1977, Dr. Trow completed a study showing college students were more conservative than in 1969, when he conducted a similar survey. Those favoring the death penalty, for example, had risen to 60 percent from 36 percent.
        In 2004, he said in an interview with The New York Times that conservatives suffered discrimination in academia. Calling himself a conservative, Dr. Trow suggested that liberal professors were confusing their ideology with ''what decent, intelligent human beings believe.''
        ''Debate is stifled,'' he said, ''and conservatives either go in the closet or get to be seen as slightly kooky.''
        Correction:  March 13, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Wednesday about Martin A. Trow, a sociologist of education, incorrectly described one of the three co-authors of ''Union Democracy: The Internal Politics of the International Typographical Union'' (1956). Seymour Martin Lipset was then a member of the Columbia faculty, not a fellow doctoral candidate of Mr. Trow and James S. Coleman, who worked with Mr. Lipset on the project and were listed as co-authors.
      