
        Amelia S. Haygood, a former clinical psychologist who more than three decades ago parlayed her love of classical music into the independent record label Delos, died on March 19 at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 87.
        The cause was cancer, said Carol Rosenberger, the company's vice president for artists and repertory and a close friend.
        Delos International, originally called Delos Records, has recorded, among others, the conductors James DePreist and Gerard Schwarz; the violinist Corey Cerovsek; the cellists Janos Starker and Zuill Bailey; and Ms. Rosenberger herself, a pianist.
        Besides classical and modern masterworks, the label has also issued crossover albums, among them ''Heigh-Ho! Mozart'' and ''Bibbidi Bobbidi Bach,'' spoken-word albums, and children's records.
        Amelia Da Costa Stone was born on July 15, 1919, in Gainesville, Fla.; her father, a judge, taught law at the University of Florida. As a teenager, she studied at the Sorbonne, and in 1941 earned a bachelor's degree in history from the Florida State College for Women, now Florida State University.
        Moving to Washington, she went to work for the State Department, becoming editor and director of publications for its Interdepartmental Committee on Cultural and Scientific Cooperation. Shortly after World War II, she married J. Douglas Haygood, a clinical psychologist.
        Training as a psychologist herself, Ms. Haygood went into practice with her husband in Beverly Hills, Calif. After Mr. Haygood's death in 1956, she worked as a consultant to the Los Angeles County Probation Department, developing a treatment program for juvenile offenders and their families.
        Ms. Haygood is survived by a stepson, Robert Haygood, of Scottsdale, Ariz.; 13 step-grandchildren; and several step-great-grandchildren.
        In the early 1970s, Ms. Haygood began to cast about for a new line of work. ''The field of psychology got taken over by all the touchy-touchy types,'' she told Forbes magazine in 1995. ''I found it a little revolting.''
        The Haygoods had been passionate classical music fans, and in 1973, with about $150,000 in savings, Ms. Haygood started Delos in her home. She named the company after the Greek island, storied as the birthplace of Apollo, the god of music and poetry. By the mid-1980s, the company was issuing its music exclusively on CDs, among the first classical labels to do so.
        In 1988, beset by financial reversals, Delos filed for bankruptcy. It emerged from bankruptcy three years later, and by 1995, Forbes reported, it was grossing more than $4 million a year, then about 1 percent of the classical-record market. The label's current net revenues are just under $1 million annually, Ms. Rosenberger said, a result of a general downturn in the market for classical music.
        Regularly praised for the quality of its sound, Delos also became known as an outlet for American musicians, something Ms. Haygood said she aimed to create from the start.
        ''The only artists getting heard were European,'' she told Forbes in 1995. ''I thought cultural exchange should be a two-way street.''
      