
        Warren Alpert, an entrepreneur who sold sheets and towels from his father's truck at age 13 and who two months ago donated $100 million to Brown University, died on March 3 in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        The death was confirmed by his nephew Herbert Kaplan, president of Warren Equities, a privately held investment management company that Mr. Alpert started in 1950, and of the Warren Alpert Foundation.
        The company, based in Providence, R.I., owns oil, wholesale food and tobacco distributorships, real estate and XtraMart convenience stores at more than 250 East Coast gasoline stations. It is regularly listed by Forbes Magazine as one of the nation's 500 largest privately held companies. Last year, it had $2 billion in sales.
        In January, Mr. Alpert gave $100 million to the Brown University Medical School, and it was renamed in his honor.
        ''The scope of the gift is so significant that it will affect virtually every dimension of the medical school,'' the president of the university, Ruth J. Simmons, said at the time.
        In 1993, Mr. Alpert gave $20 million to the Harvard Medical School research building, which opened in 1992 and housed genetics, neurobiology and pathology laboratories. That building, too, was named for Mr. Alpert.
        ''I want cures for Alzheimer's disease, cancer, AIDS,'' he told The New York Times.
        Mr. Alpert was born on Dec. 2, 1920, the youngest of five children of Goodman and Tina Horowitz Alpert, immigrants from Lithuania who lived in a working-class neighborhood of Chelsea, Mass. Mr. Alpert never married and has no immediate survivors.
        Besides peddling dry goods as a teenager, Mr. Alpert sold hats after high school to pay his tuition at Boston University, from which he graduated in 1942. As an Army private in World War II, he was wounded in the D-Day invasion.
        Financial help from the G.I. Bill allowed Mr. Alpert to earn a Master's in Business Administration at Harvard in 1947. Three years later, he started a wholesale oil business in Providence with $1,000 in savings and a $9,000 loan from his brother.
        In 2000, Mr. Alpert donated $15 million to Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, which named the Warren Alpert Pavilion after him.
        ''I really don't want my relatives to be rich,'' he said when asked about his philanthropy in 1993. ''I made it and I intend to spend it, and do it my way.''
      