
        Robert E. Petersen, who channeled his enduring California-boy fervor for fast cars with tailfins and chrome-plated engines into a string of successful magazines, including Hot Rod and Motor Trend, died Friday in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Petersen, who lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., was 80.
        The cause was neuroendocrine cancer, said Patrick Cole, a spokesman for the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles -- a four-story building adorned by 10 steel fins soaring 70 feet above the sidewalk -- which Mr. Petersen and his wife, Margie, endowed with $30 million in 1994.
        ''Mr. Petersen helped create and feed the American obsession with the automobile,'' the museum's director, Dick Messer, said yesterday. ''He understood the thrill that an average person could get from seeing and reading about horsepower.''
        Mr. Petersen, the chairman of Petersen Publishing, started Hot Rod in 1948 as a slick eight-page magazine that he sold for 25 cents, riding a motorcycle from racetrack to racetrack in Southern California.
        By 1996 -- the year he sold the company for $450 million to a former president of Hearst Magazines, D. Claeys Bahrenburg, and the former general manager of the Hollywood trade paper Variety, Neal C. Vitale -- the company had 27 regular monthly magazines and 30 others that were published sporadically, with a total circulation of about 43 million.
        Its publications, a reflection of Mr. Petersen's personal passions, also included Car Craft, Rod & Custom, Motorcyclist, Guns & Ammo, Circle Track, Off Road, Photographic, Snowboarder and Skin Diving.
        It also published several magazines for teenagers, including Sassy, Teen and Tiger Beat. A privately held company, it had annual profits estimated at $30 million to $40 million.
        Petersen Publishing went public in 1997, and in 2001, after several changes in ownership, it was sold to Primedia Inc.
        In 1957, a Time magazine profile of Mr. Petersen said that his magazines reached a readership that ''relies each month for soup-it-yourself advice, advance reports on new cars and styling tips for faddists who keep their autos à la mode with rear-seat TV, stain-pearl paint made of crushed fish scales, 'chopped tops' (i.e., lowering the cab) and taillight kits that make a 1952 Ford as finny as a '57 Plymouth.''
        Robert Einar Petersen was born on Sept. 10, 1926, in East Los Angeles. His fascination with cars was inspired by his father, Einar Petersen, a Danish-born truck mechanic who drove to desert towns in California to ply his trade with his son at his side.
        Mr. Petersen served in the Army Air Corps in World War II and was a messenger at MGM Studios after returning to Los Angeles, then tried his hand as a publicist. Using $400 in cash and credit from a friendly printer, he published the first 10,000 copies of Hot Rod in January 1948.
        In 1996, Forbes magazine estimated Mr. Petersen's worth at $400 million. By then, he and his wife, the former Margie McNally, had already endowed the Petersen Automotive Museum; they married in 1963 and she is his only immediate survivor.
        The couple had two sons who died in a plane crash in 1975.
        The Petersen Automotive Museum's 300,000-square-foot building sits on a stretch of Wilshire Boulevard between Fairfax and La Brea Avenues that is called the Miracle Mile because it was California's first shopping district designed with the car in mind.
        More than 200 cars -- among them a Model T, a 1938 Bugatti, Elvis Presley's 1971 De Tomaso Pantera and several recent vintage vehicles that run on cooking oil -- fill the museum halls. A winding path of dioramas illustrates the significance of the car to Los Angeles, depicting shopping malls, drive-in restaurants and a billboard with a motorcycle cop lurking behind it.
        Mr. Petersen relished automotive variety in his personal life as well. In 1966 in an interview in The New York Times, he was asked what kind of car he drove.
        He answered with a question: ''When?''
        Correction:  April 2, 2007, Monday  An obituary on Tuesday about Robert E. Petersen, the chairman of Petersen Publishing, omitted two of the four investors who paid $450 million for the company in 1996. The buyers included James Dunning Jr., who headed the team of investors, and Willis Stein & Partners L.P., a private equity fund based in Chicago. D. Claeys Bahrenburg, former president of Hearst Magazines, and Neal Vitale, former general manager of the Hollywood trade paper Variety, were not the only investors.
      