
        John Thow, a prolific composer of chamber, symphonic and stage works and a professor at the University of California at Berkeley, died on March 4. He was 57.
        His death was announced by Diana Thow, his daughter, who said the cause was a chronic illness.
        Mr. Thow's music combined a modernist's approach to rhythm and harmony with an almost Romantic lyricism, and often -- in works like ''Trilce'' (1992) and ''Breath of Sun'' (1993) -- the music's interest lies in the tension between those contradictory impulses.
        In other scores, his interests ranged farther afield, and he had a particular fondness for Native American music. ''Lene Tawi'' (1996) is a chamber orchestra setting of a Hopi rain song. His ''Chumash Songs'' (2000) used rhythmic figures from the Chumash Indians of Southern California, and his ''Three Echoes'' (2001) is scored for a flute played by the Lakota tribe.
        Mr. Thow (the name rhymes with ''now'') also wrote an opera, ''Serpentina'' (1999), based on a story by E. T. A. Hoffmann; music for a production of Shakespeare's ''Much Ado About Nothing'' (1989); and a dance work, ''Rim of Heaven'' (1984), that was first performed at the Edinburgh Festival. He wrote copiously for solo voice and for chorus, and his large catalog of chamber works included scores in which Baroque instruments (wooden flutes and harpsichord, for example) were combined with modern ones. Critics often commented on his ear for vivid instrumental color.
        Mr. Thow was born in Los Angeles in 1949 and began his musical studies as a flutist and pianist. His composition teachers included Adolph Weiss, Frank Salazar and Ingolf Dahl. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Southern California in 1971, and a Ph.D in composition from Harvard, where he studied with Earl Kim and Leon Kirchner. He also won a Fulbright fellowship for study in Italy, where he worked with Luciano Berio, Luigi Dallapiccola and Franco Donatoni.
        He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1981, and was chairman of the music department from 1991 to 1992.
        In addition to Diana Thow, of Iowa City, Mr. Thow is survived by another daughter, Caroline Thow of Davis, Calif.; a brother, George Thow of Santa Rosa, Calif.; and his former wife, Peggy Thow.
      