
        B. Franklin Kahn, one of the first developers to recognize that real estate investments could trade much like mutual funds, died March 8 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 82.
        The cause was congestive heart and kidney failure, said a daughter, Laurie Kahn-Leavitt.
        Almost 50 years ago, Mr. Kahn, working with Lyndon B. Johnson who was Senate majority leader at the time, helped push through legislation that created real estate investment trusts, or REITs. The law created a vehicle that enabled small investors to buy shares in a trust that held properties that would otherwise be beyond their financial reach.
        Soon after the law passed in 1960, Mr. Kahn created the Washington Real Estate Investment Trust, investing in an amalgamation of office buildings, shopping centers, apartment buildings and business parks. He ran it for 27 years, investing in properties that he thought had long-term growth potential, keeping debt low, and applying what he once described as a ''cheapskate's control of operating expenses.'' One result was 27 years of earning increases.
        Real estate was not Benjamin Franklin Kahn's only passion. He also had a love of language befitting his name. He coined aphorisms (''Conservative principles create principal to conserve'' was a favorite) and wrote silly poetry. He shared Benjamin Franklin's love of tinkering, creating useful items like curved rear-view mirrors for cars. And he cited Franklin as his inspiration when, after he retired in the mid-1990s, he founded the Creativity Foundation to recognize innovators in the arts, humanities, sciences, technology, and public service.
        Mr. Kahn's eclectic interests surfaced early on. He majored in finance at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, but also took classes in architecture, history, literature and sociology.
        Mr. Kahn graduated from Wharton in 1946, and joined the Air Force a few years later. He plunged into the real estate world right after his discharge. He worked for several real estate companies in Washington, and then struck out on his own. Every year, he traveled back to his alma mater to lecture about real estate strategy, and helped create the Wharton Real Estate Center in the 1990s.
        Joan Freed Kahn, whom Mr. Kahn married in 1951, died in 1997. He is survived by two daughters, Ms. Kahn-Leavitt of Watertown, Mass., and Daryl Kahn Cline of Vancouver, British Columbia; a son, William Kahn of New York City; two grandsons and two granddaughters.
      