
        Raymond D. Nasher, a real-estate developer and banker who, along with his wife, Patsy, amassed one of the world's best collections of Modern and contemporary sculpture and built a lavish public home for it in downtown Dallas, died on Friday in Dallas. He was 85.
        Mr. Nasher had become ill the day before on an airplane while returning home from a business trip in Europe, officials in Dallas said.
        A native of Boston and the only child of a garment-maker who had emigrated from Russia, Mr. Nasher developed an early appreciation for art during monthly museum visits with his parents. His first sight of Van Gogh's ''Postman Joseph Roulin'' at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, he once said, ''did something to my psyche.''
        His life as a dedicated collector began after he graduated from Duke University and moved to Texas with his wife, the former Patsy Rabinowitz, daughter of a prominent Dallas businessman. The two had been spending relatively small amounts of money on pre-Colombian art. But in 1967, for his birthday, Mrs. Nasher bought her husband a sinuous Jean Arp bronze, ''Torso With Buds,'' and was waiting nervously with it in their foyer when he returned from work.
        He loved it, and the couple began collecting Modernist work in earnest, acquiring sculptures by Henry Moore, Joan Miró, Alexander Calder, Barbara Hepworth and others. In 1971, when Mr. Nasher commissioned the sculptor Beverly Pepper to make a work for NorthPark Center, a huge mall complex he built in Dallas, he became one of the first developers to regularly include art in commercial and retail buildings.
        Ever the astute businessman, Mr. Nasher later said that he concentrated his collecting activities on sculpture in part because, when he and his wife began visiting galleries and studios, he found it was less expensive than paintings.
        ''No one wanted it,'' he said. ''That gave me a great opportunity.''
        He took advantage of it. In the 1970's and 1980's, the couple increased the pace of their collecting, adding many pieces by Minimalist and Pop artists like Donald Judd, Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenberg and Roy Lichtenstein, while also buying older masterpieces by Giacometti, Rodin and Picasso.
        Often, Mrs. Nasher took the lead, traveling, consulting, befriending artists and buying while Mr. Nasher focused on his business and civic duties, which included serving as a United States delegate to the United Nations General Assembly and a part ownership in the Texas Rangers. But after her death from cancer, in 1988, Mr. Nasher continued to build the collection aggressively on his own.
        As it grew, filling his North Dallas home and the courtyards and atriums of his developments, so did jockeying among museums that wanted the collection and fevered speculation about where it would eventually reside. In the 1980's the Dallas Museum of Art built a sculpture garden largely in hopes of winning the works. In 1997, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York devoted the entire museum to an exhibition of the Nasher collection, pieces of which had also traveled to exhibitions around the world. The National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco also courted Mr. Nasher.
        But he eventually frustrated all his suitors, deciding to spend $70 million of his fortune to build a 55,000-square-foot museum and sculpture garden, the Nasher Sculpture Center, controlled and owned by a private foundation, in downtown Dallas adjacent to the Dallas Museum of Art. The center, which was designed by Renzo Piano and Peter Walker, opened in 2003.
        Mr. Nasher also gave $7.5 million to his alma mater, Duke, for the construction of a new museum there, which opened in 2005, and he established a long-term association that enabled the Guggenheim to exhibit some of his works at the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice.
        While Mr. Nasher had seriously considered the offers from other institutions, the decision to create his own namesake museum did not surprise many who knew him and were familiar with his penchant, as a self-made man, for doing things his way.
        ''There is an interesting quality of the loner about this man,'' said Paul Ylvisaker, dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where Mr. Nasher had taught. ''I think he ultimately consults his own oracles.''
        Those oracles generally told Mr. Nasher to surround himself with art, of which he once said: ''It's much more fun than business.''
        Correction:  March 27, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary last Tuesday about Raymond D. Nasher, a collector of Modern and contemporary sculpture who founded a Dallas museum to exhibit it, omitted his survivors. They include his daughters, Andrea Nasher, Joanie Nasher and Nancy Nasher Haemisegger, and three grandchildren.
      