
        Axel G. Rosin, a former president of the Book-of-the-Month Club and later the head of the Scherman Foundation, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99.
        The death was confirmed by his daughter Karen Sollins.
        Mr. Rosin (pronounced Rose-EEN) was president of the Book-of-the-Month Club from 1960 to 1973, and chairman until his retirement in 1979. The club was designed to allow millions of readers to receive in the mail recent books chosen by a panel of prominent judges.
        Mr. Rosin's father-in-law, Harry Scherman, started the company in 1926 with the idea that even people living in remote areas with no access to bookstores or libraries could line their shelves with the latest, best books, at reduced prices. Under Mr. Rosin's leadership, membership reached 1.25 million and annual sales doubled to $65 million.
        In 2000, the club became part of Bookspan, jointly owned by Time Warner and Bertelsmann AG; Bookspan operates 40 book clubs with almost 8 million members. Book-of-the-Month Club selections were made by its editors, without the recommendations of independent judges, beginning in 1994; the judges were brought back in 2001, then canceled again in 2004 as a cost-saving move.
        Mr. Rosin was also chairman emeritus of the Scherman Foundation, founded by Harry Scherman in 1940, which has made grants totaling more than $100 million to organizations that promote the arts, social welfare programs, disarmament, reproductive rights, social justice and the environment.
        Axel Gerhardt Rosin was born in Berlin on Dec. 11, 1907. He graduated from university in Berlin in 1930 with a law degree. In 1934, after working as a lawyer for the Supreme Court of Prussia, he emigrated to the United States because the Nazis had decreed that Jews could no longer enter courthouses.
        Mr. Rosin worked for several years as an officer of a shoe factory in Luray, Va. In 1943, he married Katharine Scherman and two years later became comptroller of the family company.
        In addition to his wife, who is the author of several books, and his daughter Karen, of Cambridge, Mass., who is now chairwoman of the Scherman Foundation, he is survived by another daughter, Susanna Bergtold of Leonia, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      