
        J. Paul Sticht, a former chairman of the tobacco company R. J. Reynolds Industries, now called Reynolds American, died Tuesday in Winston-Salem, N.C.
        He was 89. He lived in North Palm Beach, Fla., and had homes in Meredith, N.H., and Winston-Salem.
        Mr. Sticht died at the J. Paul Sticht Center on Aging and Rehabilitation at Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, after being in poor health for several months, his son Mark said.
        As the first outsider to lead R. J. Reynolds, serving as its chairman three times during various permutations, Mr. Sticht led the company through a time of rapid diversification. He pushed into new markets overseas and added consumer-product companies like Heublein and Del Monte.
        ''We developed from essentially a domestic to a broad-based international corporation,'' said Mr. Sticht when he announced his retirement from full-time work in December 1983. Sales at R. J. Reynolds had increased from $2.5 billion when he joined in 1972 to $15 billion.
        Born in western Pennsylvania, Mr. Sticht put himself through Grove City College, where he met his wife, Ferne, and graduated in 1939. After working with his father at a steel mill, he went on to work for a variety of companies, including Trans World Airlines, Campbell Soup and Federated Department Stores.
        At Federated, he was the first person outside the Lazarus family to become a major executive. Becoming president in 1967, he moved the company in new directions, including its purchase of a supermarket chain, according to his son, who had worked with his father when his father ran a small bottled-water company, Castle Springs.
        After joining R. J. Reynolds as an outside director in 1968 and becoming an executive later, Mr. Sticht was named president and chief operating officer in 1973, chief executive in 1978 and chairman in 1979.
        After retiring as a full-time executive in 1984, he was brought back briefly as chairman in 1987 and again in 1989, after the company, then RJR Nabisco, underwent a leveraged buyout.
        Mr. Sticht is survived by his wife; two sons, Mark, of Key West, Fla., and David, of Meredith, N.H.; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and a sister, Jean Mathews of Virginia Beach.
      