
        F. Clark Howell, credited with transforming the study of human origins from just ''stones and bones'' to a broader discipline drawing on biology, ecology, geology and primatology, died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 81.
        The death was announced yesterday by the University of California, Berkeley, where he was a professor emeritus of anthropology. Dr. Howell learned last year that he had cancer, the announcement said.
        Rising to prominence 50 years ago, as the science of human origins made the first in a succession of discoveries in Africa, Dr. Howell worked with Louis and Mary Leakey and then their son, Richard. The Leakeys established East Africa as the likely nursery of human evolution.
        Dr. Howell led or participated in fossil-hunting excavations around the world, in Turkey, Spain and China, as well as Ethiopia, Kenya, South Africa and Tanzania. It was as leader of an Omo Basin expedition in southern Ethiopia from 1968 to 1973, colleagues say, that he established the multidisciplinary approach to modern paleoanthropology, the science of early human origins.
        ''When you look at a modern project, whether in Tanzania or South Africa or Ethiopia, you find Clark's stamp everywhere,'' said Tim D. White, a Berkeley professor of integrative biology and successful hunter of early human fossils. ''He personified modern paleoanthropology.''
        By that, Dr. White said he meant that Dr. Howell's research was not confined by geography or constricted by academic specialties.
        ''He was as much a Paleolithic archaeologist interested in prehistory as a physical anthropologist interested in anatomy,'' Dr. White said. ''He integrated the physical, biological and behavioral sciences.''
        Dr. White was co-director with Dr. Howell of the Human Evolution Research Center, which Dr. Howell founded at the university in 1970. After retiring as a professor in 1991, Dr. Howell joined excavations in Spain and Turkey and returned to Ethiopia with Dr. White for fossil studies related to the recent discovery of a new hominid genus and species, Ardipithecus ramidus.
        Colleagues said this research in the Middle Awash Valley was notable on two counts. It appeared to extend the trail of human ancestors back nearly six million years, almost twice as early as the hominid species, Australopithecus afarensis, commonly known as Lucy.
        In addition, Dr. Howell trained many Africans on the discovery team. One of them, Giday WoldeGabriel of Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, said Dr. Howell ''was a genuine advocate for the advancement of Africans'' as full participants in fossil-hunting projects.
        As a founder and trustee of the Leakey Foundation, officials of the organization said, Dr. Howell had a wide influence on the field by steering research grants to young scientists engaged in new directions of scholarship. Likewise, he had earlier provided financial backing at a crucial stage in the work of Jane Goodall on chimpanzees and other projects on orangutans and gorillas and studies of modern human hunter-gatherers.
        Don Dana, vice president of the Leakey Foundation board, praised Dr. Howell as ''the one who took paleoanthropology from a fossil-recovery type of science to a science where we had to understand the geology, the flora and fauna, the chemistry, everything.''
        Francis Clark Howell was born on Nov. 27, 1925, in Kansas City, Mo. He served in the Navy in World War II and then entered the University of Chicago to study anthropology. He graduated in 1949 and received his doctorate in 1953.
        After two years as an anatomy instructor at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, he joined the faculty at Chicago as a physical anthropologist, becoming a full professor in 1962. He moved to Berkeley in 1970.
        Surviving are his wife, Betty Ann Howell of Berkeley; a son, Brian David Howell of Berkeley; a daughter, Jennifer Clare Howell, and a granddaughter, Alisa Howell-Smith, of McMinnville, Ore.; and two sisters, Margaret Johnson and Elizabeth Howell of Charlotte, N.C.
        In addition to his many scholarly publications, Dr. Howell wrote a popular book, ''Early Man,'' an entry in the Time-Life Nature Library series in 1965. The book sparked the interest of Tim White, then a teenager, in anthropology, eventually leading to his close scientific collaboration with the author.
      