
        Lucie Aubrac, a French schoolteacher whose melding of romance and resistance to Nazi occupation not only made her resemble Ingrid Bergman's character in ''Casablanca'' but also inspired popular films based on her own life, died Wednesday in a Paris suburb. She was 94.
        Her death was announced by her daughter, Catherine Vallade, The Associated Press reported.
        Her status as a hero grew as she published a somewhat fictionalized version of her wartime diaries in 1984; had her life portrayed in movies; and, in 1998, won a highly publicized libel suit against a historian who had questioned her heroism and that of her husband.
        ''She was an emblematic figure of the central role of women in the Resistance,'' Jacques Chirac, the president of France, said Thursday in a statement.
        Ms. Aubrac several times rescued her husband, Raymond, a leader of what was called the Secret Army, from prison.
        Once, she confronted Klaus Barbie, the Gestapo officer known as the Butcher of Lyon. She presented herself to Mr. Barbie as a pregnant, unmarried aristocrat whose fiancé had been arrested and imprisoned by mistake.
        She begged him to let them be married to make the child legitimate.
        With what she described as ''a queer smile'' in her diary, Barbie opened his desk drawer and took out a portfolio. It contained various papers and cards pertaining to her, as well as a small snapshot of her in a bathing suit on a beach with a baby by her side.
        The papers she carried identified her as unmarried, calling into question her urgent request: either she was already married and her identification was fake, or she did not care about the public appearance of virtue as much as she had claimed.
        Barbie demanded to know how long she had known the prisoner, whom he called a terrorist. She stammered six weeks. He threw her out of the office.
        She later bribed another Nazi officer who did not know she had seen Barbie to let the couple be married in his office. Afterward, in a blaze of gunfire, she and other Resistance members killed the driver and others in the truck taking Mr. Aubrac and 13 other Resistance fighters back to jail and freed them.
        When Mr. Aubrac was jailed in 1940, she had slipped him pills containing a virus, and he escaped while being transported to a military hospital. Another time, she visited a prosecutor and calmly told him he would not live to see another sunset unless he released Mr. Aubrac.
        She said in a 1997 interview with European Magazine that when she had gone to see the prosecutor, she said to herself: ''This guy is a collaborator and, therefore, a coward. If I speak louder than him, I'm sure to win.''
        Lucie Bernard was born on June 29, 1912, in Mâcon, in the Burgundy region of France, the daughter of a winemaker. She was a young teacher when she met Raymond Samuel in Strasbourg through mutual friends. He had just completed a year's study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and she had a scholarship to study in the United States.
        Both later adopted the surname Aubrac as one of their underground aliases. They decided to keep it.
        It was love at first sight. After Ms. Aubrac's diary, translated into English as ''Outwitting the Gestapo,'' was published in 1984, Mr. Aubrac said, he was pleased to read ''that she had experienced an incredible love.''
        He said, ''I think I could say the same thing.''
        They did not go to the United States, but married on Dec. 14, 1939, in Dijon. He had warned her it might be risky to marry a Jew, but she said, ''That just made me even more keen.''
        In October 1940, she joined the Resistance, and he joined a month later. She never had a rank but simply did all that was asked of her. She delivered packages, printed propaganda and hatched and executed escape plans.
        She lived a dual life as mother of a boy, Boubou, and as a Resistance member who lived at an address known only to a few. She continued to teach, but according to an article in Women's Review of Books in 1994, refused to take her class to an exhibit on ''racial characteristics.''
        Because Mr. Aubrac was known to the Germans, the couple and their son were evacuated to Britain in February 1944. Ms. Aubrac gave birth to their daughter, Catherine, just days after their arrival.
        Ms. Aubrac is survived by her husband and three children.
        She worked for causes like Algerian independence, spoke frequently about her wartime experiences and was awarded the Legion of Honor by the French government.
        In 1998, she and her husband won a libel case against the historian Gérard Chauvy, who suggested that her husband was an informer and that her memory was vague. Barbie said, during his 1984 trial, that Mr. Aubrac had been his informer, but historians have generally rejected that claim.
        In addition to the movie ''Lucie Aubrac'' (1997), which was directed by Claude Berri and starred Carole Bouquet, two other movies -- Jean-Pierre Melville's ''Army of Shadows'' (1969) and Josée Yanne's ''Boulevard of Swallows'' (1991) -- were based at least in part on her life. (The highly acclaimed ''Army of Shadows'' had its first theatrical run in the United States last year.)
        Lucie and Raymond Aubrac became lovers on May 14, 1939, The Independent reported, and conceived Catherine on that day four years later. Each year, they treated themselves to dinner on May 14 at Le Jules Verne restaurant on the second level of the Eiffel Tower.
      