
        Tanya Reinhart, an Israeli linguist best known to the public as an ardent critic of her country's policies toward the Palestinians, died on Saturday while vacationing in Montauk, N.Y. She was 63.
        Her death was confirmed by colleagues at New York University, where Professor Reinhart had recently begun an appointment as global distinguished professor of linguistics. They said she had apparently died in her sleep.
        Professor Reinhart, who for many years taught linguistics and cultural studies at Tel Aviv University, was known for her outspoken views and writings on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. She called repeatedly for Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank and Gaza, and in recent years supported a European petition calling for an academic boycott of Israel.
        She left Israel last year, planning to divide her time between N.Y.U. and Utrecht University in the Netherlands.
        Her writings in English on the Middle East include two books, ''Israel/Palestine: How to End the War of 1948'' (Seven Stories Press, 2002), published in a new edition in 2005; and ''The Road Map to Nowhere: Israel/Palestine Since 2003'' (Verso), published last year.
        Reviewing ''The Road Map to Nowhere'' this year, Tikkun magazine described both of Professor Reinhart's books as ''blistering, unsparing and entirely persuasive.''
        Professor Reinhart's work in linguistics centered on the relationship of language to other facets of cognition.
        It focused in particular on the connection between the meaning of sentences and their syntactic structure, and on the ways in which sentence structure is processed by the mind.
        Tanya Miriam Reinhart was born in 1944 in what is now Israel, and was reared in Haifa. She received a bachelor's degree in philosophy and Hebrew literature and a master's degree in philosophy and comparative literature from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. In 1976, she earned a Ph.D. in linguistics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where her thesis adviser was Noam Chomsky.
        Professor Reinhart is survived by her husband, Aharon Shabtai, an Israeli poet and translator. Information on other survivors was unavailable.
        Correction:  March 24, 2007, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Tanya Reinhart, an Israeli linguist and critic of her country's policies toward the Palestinians, misstated her birth year. It was 1943, not 1944. (As the obituary correctly noted, she was 63.)
      