
        Dr. Harold I. Lief, a leading sex therapist who was an early advocate of having medical schools put greater emphasis on sex education in training doctors, died on March 15 at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 89.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        In 1960, Dr. Lief, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, started organizing the Center for the Study of Sex Education in Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a professor of psychiatry. It became a base for his goal of making sex education and the treatment of sexual disorders more scientific. At the time, the university said, only three other medical schools had separate programs in sexology. He worked at the center for the next 20 years.
        He was a critic of medical education who frequently commented publicly on human sexuality as well as the sometimes antagonistic interplay between psychiatry and the rest of medicine. In the early '60s, he turned his attention to getting schools to adopt a more serious and scientific approach to teaching medical students about adult sexuality and development.
        To that end, he helped to found his center, where he followed his quest to ''promote sex education using objective, validated studies and good data,'' said Dr. Albert J. Stunkard, a professor of psychiatry and former chairman of Penn's psychiatry department.
        Dr. Stunkard continued: ''This was at a time when some sex researchers seemed to be working in the realm of fantasy. The impact of Dr. Lief's arguments at Penn, and then at schools across the country, was major.''
        Earlier, Dr. Lief had criticized the reluctance of doctors to consider psychological factors -- like stress -- in making their diagnoses. In 1963, he was co-editor of a textbook for medical students with his brother, Dr. Victor F. Lief, and his sister-in-law, Dr. Nina R. Lief. The book, ''The Psychological Basis of Medical Practice,'' addressed psychosomatic conditions, physiological side effects of psychiatric drugs and other elements of the mind-body relationship.
        Dr. Lief was also director of the Marriage Council of Philadelphia and counseled couples. He studied conflicts between spouses and looked at the connection between testosterone levels and sexual desire, in both men and women. He found that lower levels of testosterone usually correlated with a decreased desire for sex, but did not discount depression and emotional distance as powerful factors that can inhibit desire.
        Harold Isaiah Lief (pronounced leaf) was born in Brooklyn. He attended the University of Michigan and earned his medical degree from New York University in 1942.
        He trained in psychoanalysis at Columbia before going to Tulane University, where he became a professor of psychiatry and neurology, and taught from 1951 to 1967. He then moved to Penn and remained until 1982, when he became a professor emeritus. Dr. Lief continued to practice until last year. In 1967, he was named president of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis. He was a former president of the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States.
        Dr. Lief is survived by his wife, Myrtis. A previous marriage ended in divorce. He is also survived by a daughter, Polly Goldberg of Pittsburgh; four sons, Caleb, of Greenville, Calif., Frederick, of Lexington, Ky., and Oliver and Jonathan F., both of Brooklyn; 10 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      