
        Dr. Stella Chess, a child psychiatrist who helped develop and popularize the influential theory that children are born with distinct temperaments that can powerfully affect their outlook and relationship with their parents, died March 14 in Manhattan. She was 93.
        The cause was pneumonia, her family said.
        The theory arose from groundbreaking research into human development that began in 1956, when Dr. Chess and her husband, Dr. Alexander Thomas, a former director of psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital Center, initiated the New York Longitudinal Study.
        The study followed 133 children from infancy through adulthood and tried to observe patterns of behavior over that period. Working with two other researchers, Herbert G. Birch and Margaret E. Hertzig, Dr. Chess and Dr. Thomas examined nine dimensions of behavior and concluded that most of their subjects fell into three broad categories.
        Their findings -- that children could be described as ''easy,'' ''difficult'' or ''slow to warm up'' -- described aspects of an inherent temperament and became critically important when matched with a parent's personality, especially with that of the child's mother. The theory suggests that contrast between the mother's personality and her child's temperament can result in anxiety or behavior problems. Initial results from the study were published in the American Journal of Psychiatry in 1960.
        Over time, Dr. Chess, who taught at New York University, and her collaborators found that temperament was not necessarily fixed but could change in response to shifts in environment. Further, the researchers concluded that a majority of emotionally traumatized children were not damaged in the longer term and often recovered in therapy.
        Both findings were received as encouraging news by parents, who read about them in popular books like ''Know Your Child'' (1987) and ''Temperament and Development'' (1977), written by Dr. Chess and Dr. Thomas to bring the fruits of their research to the public eye. Along with Dr. Birch, the two also wrote a practical guide, ''Your Child Is a Person'' (1965).
        Dr. Theodore Shapiro, a professor emeritus of psychiatry in pediatrics at Cornell, said that through ''dogged research and clinically oriented studies of children,'' Dr. Chess had succeeded in showing that temperament indeed exists and remains, ''as something enduring within every individual.''
        In other work during the 1960s and '70s, Dr. Chess studied psychiatric disorders in children who had contracted rubella, or German measles, and explored the possibility that the rubella virus was a cause for an autistic syndrome.
        Stella Chess was born in Brooklyn. She graduated from the Ethical Culture School and Smith College. In 1939, she received her medical degree from New York University.
        Dr. Chess taught at New York Medical College before moving to N.Y.U. as an associate professor of child psychiatry in 1966. She became a professor of child psychiatry there in 1970, and served as director of the university's child and adolescent psychiatric services.
        Dr. Chess and her husband lived in Manhattan. Her husband died in 2003. She continued to teach at N.Y.U. into her 90s.
        She is survived by two sons, Kenneth Thomas of Manhattan and Richard Thomas of Yonkers, and by six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      