
        Nils Y. Wessell, who as president of Tufts University from 1953 to 1966 guided its transformation from a small college to a respected university, died Sunday near his home in Naples, Fla. He was 92.
        The death was confirmed by his son, Nils H. Wessell.
        Dr. Wessell oversaw the conversion of what for 101 years had been Tufts College, in Medford, Mass. On the day he was installed as president, Dec. 9, 1953, he called for Tufts to become a university ''in name as well as in fact.'' In 1955, the Massachusetts Board of Corporations changed Tufts's status.
        ''It was more than a name change,'' Tufts's current president, Lawrence S. Bacow, said in an interview Wednesday. ''It was a commitment to becoming a true research university. That meant developing graduate programs in the colleges of arts, sciences, engineering.''
        During Dr. Wessell's presidency, biology and chemistry laboratories, an engineering building, new dormitories and the Wessell Library were built, and the Lincoln Filene Center for Public Service and the Experimental College were opened.
        Previously, Tufts had been a liberal arts college with schools of medicine, dentistry and law. It had 3,500 students when Dr. Wessell became its eighth president, at the age of 39. It now has about 9,000 students.
        Nils Yngve Wessell was born in Warren, Pa., on April 14, 1914, the son of Nils Johan Wessell, a Congregationalist minister, and Esther Walquist Wessell, a nurse. In addition to his son, of Mystic, Conn., Dr. Wessell is survived by a daughter, Roberta McCuskey of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. His wife of 59 years, the former Marian Sigler, died in 1997.
        After graduating from Lafayette College in 1934, Dr. Wessell earned a master's in psychology from Brown University in 1935 and a Ph.D. from the University of Rochester in 1938. From 1939 to 1947, he taught psychology at Tufts. Before becoming president, he was the college's dean of liberal arts and its vice president. While serving as president of Tufts, Dr. Wessell led a panel that reviewed the state's prison system.
        From 1968 to 1979, Dr. Wessell was president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. The foundation, established by a former president of General Motors, supports higher education and science research.
        In 1976, Gov. Hugh L. Carey of New York named Dr. Wessell the chairman of a commission to study the possibility of merging the City University of New York, which was facing a fiscal crisis, with the state university system. The commission ultimately advised against the merger, but recommended an increase in state aid to the city system.
        Correction:  March 15, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on Friday about Nils Y. Wessell, a former president of Tufts University, referred incorrectly to the role of one of its schools when he became president in 1953. It had a school of law and diplomacy that introduced students to international law; it did not confer law degrees.
      