
        Jay Haley, an early theorist of family therapy who in the 1960s advocated hypnosis and deeper social involvement for patients to cure emotional problems more rapidly, died on Feb. 13 at his home in San Diego. He was 83.
        Mr. Haley's death was confirmed by his family.
        As a trainer and teacher of therapists, Mr. Haley was an early proponent of involving family members and close friends directly in the treatment of patients. Beginning in the 1960s, he asserted that techniques then considered unconventional, like giving patients homework and tasks outside the consulting room, would lead to more lasting and spontaneous resolutions of problems.
        Earlier, Mr. Haley had been a student of Milton H. Erickson, the psychiatrist and pioneer in the use of hypnosis in psychotherapy, and wrote a highly regarded explanation of his work, ''Uncommon Therapy: The Psychiatric Techniques of Milton H. Erickson'' (Norton, 1973). Mr. Haley used a form of hypnosis without trance in his own practice, with the intention of helping patients to focus and to motivate themselves to make life changes.
        Jeffrey K. Zeig, director of the Milton H. Erickson Foundation, said Mr. Haley looked at psychotherapy with ''acerbic wit and an outsider's perspective'' and ''took up Erickson's thread to establish a more strategic school of therapy, in which he prodded the patient to ask how he had developed in the way he did.''
        Indeed, Mr. Haley was not a psychologist and had trained in communications and library sciences. In the 1950s, he worked with an anthropologist, Gregory Bateson, and others to develop a concept of schizophrenia in which the condition was analyzed as a problem of communication. Known as the double-bind theory, it holds that a schizophrenic may be facing two or more paradoxical messages and is unable to escape or resolve them, resulting in illness. Mr. Haley believed that a synthesis of the messages would lead to a cure.
        In the 1960s and '70s, Mr. Haley wrote provocative essays and books that explained his ideas and helped to advance the notion of family life cycles, a theory in which families face recognizable events, like marriages and deaths, that can lead to emotional setbacks for their members.
        Judith Mazza, a psychologist in Bethesda, Md., said Mr. Haley found that ''family problems typically don't arise at random times, but at stages in a larger transition.''
        Jay Douglas Haley was born on July 19, 1923, in Midwest, Wyo. He received undergraduate degrees from the University of California, Los Angeles and Berkeley, before earning a master's degree in communications from Stanford University.
        From 1962 to 1969, he served as director of the family experiment project at the Mental Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif. Mr. Haley later became director of family therapy research at the Philadelphia Child Guidance Clinic.
        From 1975 to 1994, he was co-director of the Family Therapy Institute of Washington. He also taught at Howard University, the University of Maryland and the University of Pennsylvania.
        At his death, Mr. Haley was a research professor in marital and family therapy at Alliant International University in San Diego.
        He wrote ''Strategies of Psychotherapy'' (Allyn & Bacon, 1963) and ''Leaving Home: The Therapy of Disturbed Young People'' (McGraw-Hill, 1980) and was founding editor of the journal Family Process.
        Mr. Haley is survived by his wife, Dr. Madeleine Richeport-Haley, an anthropologist. Two previous marriages ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by a daughter, Kathleen of Richmond, Calif.; two sons, Andrew, of Conshohocken, Pa., and Dr. Gregory, a chemist, of San Diego; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      