
        Dr. Robert Austrian, who developed a pneumococcal vaccine that has saved the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, died Sunday in Philadelphia. He was 90.
        The cause was a stroke, said Dr. Harvey M. Friedman, chief of infectious diseases at the University of Pennsylvania, where Dr. Austrian had taught and done research to prevent and treat infectious diseases for the last 40 years.
        Dr. Austrian did much of the early research that led to the pneumococcal vaccine in New York City, working at Bellevue Hospital and then with Dr. Colin Macleod at the Rockefeller Institute. Later, he continued the research at Kings County Hospital and the State University of New York College of Medicine, both in Brooklyn. The college is now known as SUNY Downstate.
        The vaccine can prevent the pneumonia, meningitis and blood system and other infections caused by the bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae. These infections were long a major cause of illness and death among the elderly and the chronically ill throughout the world. Even healthy adults and infants suddenly died from them.
        After the introduction of penicillin and other antibiotics after World War II, most doctors assumed that pneumococcal infections would no longer be a major cause of death, and they stopped prescribing a pneumococcal vaccine used at the time.
        Dr. Austrian was unconvinced by the prevailing medical wisdom. Through his work as a clinician, epidemiologist and microbiologist, he showed that pneumococcal pneumonia remained a killer. Two vaccines based on Dr. Austrian's work were licensed in 1977 and 1983.
        Robert Austrian was born in Baltimore on April 12, 1916, the son of Charles Robert Austrian, an infectious diseases expert at Johns Hopkins University, and the former Florence Hochschild. He earned his college and medical degrees from Johns Hopkins, where he also trained as a specialist in internal medicine. At this time, he developed an interest in pneumococcal infections while working with Dr. Barry Wood, a renowned infectious diseases expert.
        The work was interrupted by World War II. Dr. Austrian was sent to the Fiji Islands to treat casualties from the South Pacific. He also did research on the use of atabrine to treat malaria after the Japanese had obtained most sources of another antimalarial, quinine, Dr. Friedman said. Dr. Austrian was then sent to Burma to study scrub typhus, an infection transmitted by mite bites.
        Dr. Austrian returned to Johns Hopkins, then moved to Kings County Hospital to pursue his research on meningococci. It was the nation's third-largest hospital, but colleagues told him that they detected only four cases of the infection a year.
        Over the next 10 years, Dr. Austrian's meticulous laboratory work showed that pneumococcal infections remained common but were often not detected in standard laboratory testing. He convinced skeptics that such infections were a serious health problem.
        In the laboratory, he identified the most common lethal pneumococcal strains, or serotypes. (More than 90 serotypes of pneumococci are now known. To help determine whether additional strains needed to be added to future vaccines, he continued serotyping strains sent by doctors from around the world until he had a stroke on March 22.)
        In a study of patients at Kings County Hospital from 1952 to 1962 that he co-wrote, he concluded that a vaccine was needed to supplement the antibiotics to reduce deaths from pneumococcal infections.
        In 1962, Dr. Austrian joined the medical faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, where he pursued research on the vaccine.
        After drug companies developed a vaccine that included 14 serotypes, Dr. Austrian proved its safety and effectiveness by supervising clinical trials among military trainees and gold miners in South Africa. They were at greater risk because they worked in crowded conditions. The vaccine was marketed in 1977, at a time when there were up to 750,000 cases of pneumococcal pneumonia in the United States each year.
        An improved vaccine that included the 23 most common serotypes was marketed in 1983.
        But published studies by researchers in the United States challenged the effectiveness of the pneumococcal vaccine. So Dr. Austrian led another study, published in 1991 and financed in part by the National Institutes of Health, that documented its benefits. He also identified flaws in the earlier studies that he said accounted for their conclusions.
        Dr. Austrian was a former Johns Hopkins trustee and a member of the National Academy of Sciences and Institute of Medicine.
        His wife of 37 years, Babette Friedmann, died in 2000. He is survived by two stepdaughters, Toni Amber of New York City and Jill Bernstein of Voorhees, N.J.; and a sister, Janet Fisher of Madison, Wis.
        Dr. Austrian won a Lasker award in 1978 ''for his perseverance in the development and clear demonstration of the efficacy of a purified vaccine'' for pneumococcal infections.
      