
        Janet Brown, an influential fashion retailer who brought important designers to the wealthy clientele of her small store on Long Island, often before the designs were famous or even sold in Manhattan, died in a car accident on Friday near her home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. She was 59.
        Ms. Brown, the owner of the Janet Brown boutique in Port Washington, N.Y., had a heart attack while driving to her store, said Brooke Garber Neidich, a friend of Ms. Brown's and a customer since the mid-1990s.
        Ms. Brown's store, an unlikely destination for European labels trying to break into the United States, resembles not much more than a shabby beach shack that had somehow landed among the mansions of Gatsby country, with slim cashmere jackets hanging from plain pipe racks. At roughly 1,000 square feet, the place is tiny compared with the grand architectural statements of today's luxury fashion flagship stores. But for designers, having their collections stocked by Ms. Brown was often more powerful than staking claim to a floor at Saks Fifth Avenue.
        Ms. Brown was among the first American retailers to recognize the potential of a new breed of fashion minimalism coming from European designers like Miuccia Prada, Jil Sander and Marni, and she introduced them to her clientele before the labels could commonly be found in department stores. She was unconventional in her approach, mixing the collections of various designers to encourage the individual style of her wealthy customers; the average purchase was in the neighborhood of $12,000.
        Despite the plain surroundings, she encouraged the idea of Janet Brown as a modern version of Martha, one of the bygone white-glove specialty stores of Park Avenue and Palm Beach known for impeccable customer service.
        ''I buy for 200 very special clients,'' Ms. Brown said in a 1991 interview with The New York Times. ''I know their sizes, their lifestyles, their figure problems. When something comes in that I think is right for a particular woman, I call her.'' In 2000, she told a reporter roughly the same thing , but updated the number of customers to 300.
        Janet Merrill Brown was born on May 23, 1947, in Philadelphia, the first of two daughters of Edith and Daniel Brown. She is survived by her sister, Elaine Edelstein of Villanova, Pa.
        At any early age Ms. Brown showed an aptitude for shopping. She was taken under the wing of Nan Duskin, the owner of Philadelphia's leading women's clothing store, where she worked while a student at Temple University. After college, Ms. Brown moved to New York to work for Yves St. Tropez, the resort line, which had stores on 57th Street in Manhattan and Manhasset, and then opened Janet Brown in 1983.
        Ms. Brown's success was remarkable because it coincided with the general decline of independent designer boutiques in the United States, when many names (including that of Nan Duskin) were driven out of business by expanding department stores or by competition from high-end designers opening their own stores.
        Ms. Brown seemed to have a special talent for navigating the treacherous waters of the business.
        She was often outspoken and opinionated in dealing with designers, expecting loyalty from them as well as from customers. As a longtime supporter of Ms. Sander, who resigned from her label after it was sold to the Prada Group, Ms. Brown described the efforts of the designer's successor in 2004 as ''outstandingly awful.''
        When Prada opened a store in Manhasset and stopped selling its designs to Ms. Brown, she rationalized that her business would not be materially affected. ''When you're in a shop that only sells one label,'' she said, ''it does tend to look like a uniform.''
      