
        Vice Adm. Joseph Metcalf III, who in October 1983 was given less than two days to plan and start the controversial invasion of the Caribbean island of Grenada after President Ronald Reagan issued orders to overturn a Marxist coup, died on March 2 at his home in Washington. He was 79.
        The cause was progressive neurological degeneration and two strokes, his wife, Ruth, said.
        The invasion of the island, which is 25 miles long and lies north of Trinidad and Tobago, started before dawn on Oct. 25, 1983. Six days earlier, a Marxist faction had toppled the government and executed the prime minister, Maurice Bishop. But even before the coup, Fidel Castro had sent more than 600 Cuban military personnel and construction workers to Grenada to build a 10,000-foot airport runway outside St. George's, the capital.
        Admiral Metcalf, commander of the Atlantic Second Fleet at the time, was placed in charge of what was code named Operation Urgent Fury. It took him 39 hours to deploy a force of 1,800 marines, 700 Army Rangers, 1,600 Army paratroopers and several dozen Navy Seal commandos. His deputy commander was Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, who seven years later led the first American attack on Iraq.
        Within three days, American forces took control of Grenada and captured the coup leader, Bernard Coard, who had been the island's deputy prime minister; Mr. Coard remains in prison on the island. Nineteen Americans and 45 Grenadians were killed during the invasion, including 19 patients at a mental hospital that was accidentally bombed.
        The operation caused considerable controversy, particularly after journalists were barred from going ashore to cover the story. Critics charged that the administration had made misleading statements to bolster President Reagan's assertion that the invasion was necessary to prevent a Cuban takeover.
        The administration was accused of having inflated the number of Cubans on the island and exaggerating evidence that Americans in Grenada were in danger. There were approximately 1,000 Americans on the island at the time, including about 400 medical students. None were harmed.
        In 2002, in an oral history for the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia, Caspar W. Weinberger, the secretary of defense at the time, defended the invasion, saying there was great concern ''that Cuba had been allowed to go too far and had become a threat.''
        ''This construction was going on in Grenada,'' Mr. Weinberger said, ''and the government there was in complete anarchy. The American medical students were going to be an obvious target.''
        Admitting that there was faulty planning, Mr. Weinberger also said: ''We didn't have enough maps, and we didn't have this and that, and we didn't have very good communications between the various units. But it was very hastily put together, and we won.''
        Initial intelligence reports had indicated that there were 1,200 Grenadian regulars and 600 Cubans on the island. As the first helicopters swooped in, the only opposition came from a few snipers. But when resistance stiffened, the estimate of Grenadian forces was raised to 2,000 and the Cuban forces to 1,100. An additional 3,500 American paratroopers were rushed in.
        When Navy Seal teams came under heavy attack from Fort Frederick, outside the capital, they requested an air strike. An A-7 jet roared in. Soon after, much of the fort lay in ruins, including a wing of a 180-bed mental hospital.
        Admiral Metcalf was born in Holyoke, Mass., on Dec. 20, 1927, a son of Alice Conrad and Joseph Metcalf II. His father was a partner in a wool factory. In 1946, he enlisted in the Navy and a year later was admitted to the Naval Academy. He graduated in 1951, the same year that he married Ruth Daniels. Besides his wife, surviving are a brother, Conrad, of Westminster, N.C.; a daughter, Elizabeth Miller of Reston, Va.; 2 sons, David, of Wellington, Fla., and Joseph IV, of Knoxville, Tenn.; and 11 grandchildren.
        After the Grenada operation, Admiral Metcalf was named a vice chief of staff for naval operations.
        In 1985, it became public that Customs officials had stopped him and a staff member from bringing 24 Soviet AK-47 automatic rifles back from Grenada to distribute as souvenirs. The guns were surrendered, and Admiral Metcalf received a nonpunitive warning after saying he had not known that importing automatic rifles violated federal law.
        But nine lower-ranking servicemen were court-martialed and sentenced to hard labor for similar offenses. The secretary of the Navy, John F. Lehman Jr., later pointed out that some of the enlisted men had not only brought in the weapons, but also sold them.
        Admiral Metcalf rarely spoke about his Grenada experiences, his wife said, except to say that ''he thought it was a success, and it was.''
      