
        Charlotte Winters, the last surviving woman to have served in the American armed forces in World War I and one of the first to enlist in the Navy, died Tuesday at her home in Boonsboro, Md. She was 109.
        The death was confirmed by Philip Molter, a spokesman for the Naval District Washington, who said Mrs. Winters was one of the ''four or five'' surviving American veterans of World War I of either sex. There is some question about the status of one of the remaining male veterans, Mr. Molter said.
        Mrs. Winters held the rank of Yeoman (F) -- the F was for female -- from March 1917 to July 1919, and served her entire enlistment as a clerk at the Naval Gun Factory at the Washington Navy Yard.
        ''She's not No. 1 on the rolls, but she was among the first women to enlist,'' Jennifer Marland, the assistant curator of the United States Navy Museum in Washington, said yesterday. ''Women didn't have to step up and answer the call of their country, but she did.''
        Ms. Marland pointed out that some women had served in the armed forces before World War I -- including some who disguised themselves as men during the Civil War and those who were nurses -- but Mrs. Winters was among ''the first enlisted women officially serving in uniform in the U.S. Navy.''
        Asked yesterday why her great-aunt had enlisted, Mrs. Winters's grandniece Kelly Auber said: ''She said many times to many people, 'For me, it was the thing to do.' She was very patriotic.''
        Charlotte Louise Berry Winters was born in Washington on Nov. 10, 1897, a daughter of Mackell and Louise Bild Berry. Her father was a haberdasher. Mrs. Winters has no immediate survivors. Her husband of 35 years, John Russell Winters, whom she met while he was working as a machinist at the Naval Gun Factory, died in 1984.
        Mrs. Winters heard about the possibility of joining the Navy two years after graduating from the Washington Business High School. The secretary of the Navy at the time, Josephus Daniels, was a proponent of women's rights who saw a loophole in the Naval Appropriations Act of 1916. The law, which created what was called the United States Naval Reserve Force, established six categories of citizens who could enlist.
        ''The act did not specify men, but citizens and persons,'' Susan H. Goodson, a historian, wrote in her 2001 book, ''Serving Proudly: A History of Women in the U.S. Navy'' (Naval Institute Press).
        Daniels ''seized the opportunity,'' the book says. ''On 14 March 1917,'' it says, ''he ordered that women be enrolled as yeoman, radio electricians and other useful ratings.'' Their enlistment allowed men to go to sea as sailors.
        Mrs. Winters was among about 600 women who were on duty by the end of April 1917. By December 1918, there were 11,000 women in the Navy.
        ''These women were known as yeomanettes; they weren't officers,'' Mr. Molter of the Washington Naval District said. ''They served in support positions, mainly secretarial and clerical, and all of them served in the U.S.''
        The woman sailors found the term ''yeomanettes'' demeaning, far preferring to be called Yeoman (F)s. In 1936, the National Yeoman (F) Organization was started, with Mrs. Winters as one of its charter members. She was the organization's commander from 1940 to 1941.
        After her naval service, Mrs. Winters continued to work for the Navy as a civilian in various administrative positions in Washington, until her retirement in 1953.
        At her burial, scheduled for today at Mount Olivet Cemetery in Frederick, Md., Mr. Molter said, Mrs. Winters is to receive full military honors, with a squad of seven sailors firing three rifle volleys.
      