
        Freddie Francis, a versatile British cinematographer whose talent for creating atmosphere won him two Oscars, died on March 17 in London. He was 89.
        He had suffered a stroke in December and never recovered, his family told British newspapers.
        Mr. Francis, who received Oscars for Jack Cardiff's 1960 adaptation of D. H. Lawrence's ''Sons and Lovers'' and for Edward Zwick's 1989 Civil War drama ''Glory,'' was a product of the British studio system. Starting out as a camera assistant in the 1930s, he moved up to camera operator after returning from service in World War II, shooting films for Michael Powell, Carol Reed and John Huston. His first job as director of photography came in 1956 on ''A Hill in Korea,'' a Korean War picture in which Michael Caine made his debut.
        After winning his first Oscar for cinematography, Mr. Francis turned to directing, starting what became a nearly 20-year career in horror. Though he said he had no great liking for the genre, his direction of ''Paranoiac'' (1963) kept a steady stream of projects coming, including ''The Skull'' (1965), ''The Psychopath'' (1966), ''Tales From the Crypt'' (1972) and ''The Ghoul'' (1975).
        Mr. Francis's talent for creepiness, as well as his mastery of light and shadow, attracted the attention of the director David Lynch, who hired him to direct photography for his first big Hollywood project, ''The Elephant Man'' (1980). Martin Scorsese later chose Mr. Francis for his skill at creating gothic atmosphere, using him as the cinematographer for the 1991 remake of ''Cape Fear.''
        Mr. Francis worked in other genres, too, during his second go-round as cinematographer. In addition to ''Glory,'' he directed photography for Karel Reisz on ''The French Lieutenant's Woman'' (1981) and for Mr. Lynch on ''Dune'' (1984) and ''The Straight Story'' (1999).
        Mr. Francis's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Pamela, their two children, and a son from his first marriage.
        ''The most important contribution of any cinematographer is to make things look right,'' he said in a 1990 interview with The New York Times. Mr. Francis was also famous for sticking to his guns when his judgment was questioned on the set. ''No director has to hire me,'' he said, ''but if he hires me, he has to trust me.''
        Obituary
      