
        Agustín Tamargo, an outspoken Cuban journalist who strongly criticized the regime of Fidel Castro in print and on the radio in Miami, where he became a leading voice of the exile community, died Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 82.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Lila Tamargo of Coral Gables.
        After the announcement of his death, hundreds of faithful listeners called, faxed and e-mailed Radio Mambí, the powerful Spanish-language station in Miami where, for more than two decades, Mr. Tamargo was host of his own program. It was a mix of news from Cuba tinted with Mr. Tamargo's strong political opinions. He usually included a segment in which he also took calls from listeners in rapid-fire succession, encouraging opinions that echoed his own and dismissing those who differed.
        Mr. Tamargo, who had surgery for cancer of the larynx, continued to broadcast live until three weeks ago, when the station began broadcasting previously recorded programs.
        Mr. Tamargo's hatred of the Castro regime was seemingly inexhaustible, and his programs often turned into prolonged rants against the Communist government in Cuba, which made him enormously popular in parts of Miami.
        He opposed any softening of the United States embargo against Cuba, and after the war began in Iraq he often encouraged the United States to consider invading Cuba to rid the island of its own dictator, an opinion he also expressed in newspaper columns. He ended each of those columns with his customary refrain: ''Cuba first, Cuba later and Cuba always.''
        Agustín Tamargo was born on Aug. 14, 1924, in Puerto Padre, Cuba, on the eastern end of the island, and his idyllic early life there was a frequent theme of his programs. In 1944, he moved to Havana and wrote for magazines and newspapers, criticizing the dictator Fulgencio Batista so fiercely that Mr. Tamargo was forced into exile.
        He returned to Cuba after the triumph of Mr. Castro in 1959 but became disillus ioned as Mr. Castro turned toward Communism. Mr. Tamargo left Cuba again in 1960, and in a parting shot wrote to Mr. Castro in his column, ''You don't want journalists, you want record players.''
        He worked at newspapers in Venezuela and Argentina before moving to New York City, where he became the editor of the Spanish-language newspapers El Tiempo and El Diario/La Prensa. By 1980, he had moved again, this time to Miami, and began broadcasting on Radio Mambí, where he came to represent the most anti-Castro wing of the Cuban exile community.
        Mr. Tamargo is survived by his wife of 64 years, Rosalba Nápoles of Coral Gables, and seven children.
      