
        Herman Brix, who played football in the Rose Bowl, set world shot-put records and portrayed Tarzan in the movies before becoming a dapper Hollywood leading man, died on Saturday in Los Angeles.
        He was 100, but for 34 years he had been Bruce Bennett, the name he took to pursue a classier film career than the one he had begun with Tarzan's clarion howl.
        He died of complications of a broken hip, his son, Christopher, told The Associated Press.
        The requisite jungle scream aside, Mr. Brix imbued the role of Tarzan with a dignity that around six monosyllabic predecessors and around nine successors may have lacked.
        Edgar Rice Burroughs, the writer who created the character in 1912, chose Mr. Brix as an alternative to what he considered an objectionably crude interpretation of his character in the popular Johnny Weissmuller films. To Burroughs, wearing a loin cloth was scant excuse for impoliteness, particularly since Tarzan was actually a British lord lost in the jungle as an infant.
        So when Mr. Brix's Tarzan is discovered by explorers in the 1935 movie ''The New Adventures of Tarzan,'' he intones: ''Why, yes, I'm Tarzan, also known as Lord Greystoke. How may I help you?''
        The truth is that Mr. Brix had been a leading candidate for the Tarzan part in the MGM 1932 hit ''Tarzan the Ape Man,'' but lost the role to Mr. Weissmuller after he broke his shoulder. Though Mr. Brix made two Tarzan movies for the independent production company with which Mr. Burroughs was associated, neither came close to challenging the success of the MGM versions.
        Mr. Brix's injury also cost him a chance to qualify for the 1932 Olympics. In the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam, he broke the world shot-put record on his first toss. He then gave a pep talk to his teammate John Kuck, who was inspired to surpass the new world's record with one of his own. He won a gold medal, Mr. Brix a silver one.
        In the Rose Bowl of 1926, Mr. Brix played left tackle for the University of Washington against the University of Alabama. The Huskies lost the first Rose Bowl to be broadcast on radio, by a score of 20-19.
        One of Alabama's players, Johnny Mack Brown, became a movie star. So did Mr. Brix. After abandoning the name under which he had become a famous athlete, he acted in 113 films, including playing a lone-wolf gold prospector in ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre'' with Humphrey Bogart. He beat out Ronald Reagan for the part.
        Mr. Brix became known for making movies with strong women. In ''Mildred Pierce,'' he played Joan Crawford's ex-husband. In ''A Stolen Life,'' he acted with Bette Davis; in ''Nora Prentiss,'' with Ann Sheridan; and in ''The Man I Love, '' with Ida Lupino.
        Herman Brix was born on May 19, 1906, in Tacoma, Wash., where his well-to-do family was one of the first to have indoor plumbing. He grew up playing sports, but also had the lead role in the school production of ''The Pirates of Penzance.''
        ''There was always a fight between the music director and the athletic coaches as to who was going to get my time after school,'' he said in an interview with a high-school alumni publication.
        After graduating from the University of Washington in 1928 with an economics major, Mr. Brix was for several years usually the best shot-putter in the United States, and often in the world.
        Mr. Brix became acquainted with Douglas Fairbanks Sr., who patronized youth sports. After quitting shot-putting, he worked at 17 different jobs, from logging to insurance salesman, before Mr. Fairbanks persuaded him to become an actor.
        As Tarzan, he followed two other Olympians, both swimmers, who had played the part, Mr. Weissmuller and Buster Crabbe. Mr. Brix's Tarzan was filmed in Guatemala, not on a Hollywood lot, and he contracted an ailment that lingered for years.
        A single sharpshooter guarded him from crocodiles as he swung over a pool on a vine. He landed on rocks on the opposite shore. That injury lingered for years, too.
        Gabe Essou, in his book ''Tarzan of the Movies,'' said that Mr. Brix's was perhaps the only accurate portrayal of the literary Tarzan. He wrote: ''He was mannered, cultured, soft-spoken, a well-educated English lord who spoke several languages, and didn't grunt.''
        After ''Tarzan and the Green Goddess'' in 1938, Mr. Brix realized he was hopelessly typecast and changed his name. By 1947, accounts of his acting described him as a specialist in intense, emotional roles.
        In an interview with the University of Washington Alumni Magazine in 2002, Mr. Brix said his proudest accomplishment was his 67-year marriage to Jeanette, who died in 2000. In addition to his son, Christopher, he is survived by his daughter, Christina Katich; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Brix in his later years pursued business interests. At 96, he parachuted from a plane 10,000 feet in the air. In 2002, Mike Chapman wrote his biography. The title: ''Please Don't Call Me Tarzan.''
      