
        Percival Leach, who helped turn a ramshackle collection of pre-Revolutionary and mid-19th-century buildings along an old industrial canal in northern New Jersey into Waterloo Village, a version of Colonial Williamsburg, died on Monday in Hackettstown, N.J. He was 80 and lived in a restored home just outside Waterloo Village, in Stanhope.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, said his sister and only immediate survivor, Doris Leach Buzby of Montclair.
        Mr. Leach and a college friend and business partner, Louis D. Gualandi, established the Waterloo Foundation for the Arts in 1967 to finance the restoration of about 30 structures -- including old homes, a 1790 gristmill, a canal house, a boarded-up tavern, a general store and a church -- that in the 1820s made up a thriving commercial center serving traffic along the Morris Canal. Mr. Gualandi died in 1988.
        Starting in 1964, Mr. Leach and Mr. Gualandi, who were successful interior designers catering to large corporate clients, bought and restored the village building by building and turned it into a tourist attraction. Led by guides in period gowns and bonnets, or just wandering on their own, visitors could watch a blacksmith hammering out iron trivets and cupboard latches, a potter shaping clay jugs on a treadle wheel and women hooking rugs, dipping candles or weaving cloth on looms. Furnishings, largely paid for by Mr. Leach and dating from the Federal to the Victorian periods, filled the old homes.
        ''In that village, you could walk through history in an afternoon,'' Mr. Leach said. ''There was everything from an Indian burial ground to specters of Victorian opulence.'' The Lenni Lenape tribe had lived amid the forested hills of the nearby Musconetcong River.
        Admission fees to Waterloo Village, however, never covered restoration costs. Corporate and state grants helped. But to make up the difference, the foundation held concerts by classical and pop stars and ethnic festivals.
        Waterloo Village's financial condition grew worse in recent years. On Jan. 1, New Jersey officials took control of the village and its 400-acre site, which the state had leased to the foundation. The site is part of the 11,000-acre Allamuchy Mountain State Park.
        The state is trying to find a new manager for the village.
        Percival Hubert Ellis Leach was born on Oct. 18, 1926, in Boonton, N.J., the son of Percival and Doris Leach. His father was an electrical engineer. In 1950, Mr. Leach graduated from the Whitman School of Architecture and Interior Design in Manhattan, which no longer exists. There he met Mr. Gualandi. In 1952, they opened Colony House Interiors in Mendham, and by the early 1960s had completed design projects for several major corporate headquarters. They used part of their earnings from those projects to begin restoring Waterloo Village.
        Mr. Leach served in the Navy during World War II, and soon after his return, the family bought a home in Waterloo, which his sister vividly recalled as ''a ghost town.'' Even then, she said, her brother was fascinated by Waterloo's history and ''couldn't believe that it hadn't been restored.''
      