
        Hy Weiss, a music executive from the hardscrabble early days of rock 'n' roll, died on March 20 in Englewood, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Rockleigh, N.J.
        His death was announced by the Zomba Label Group, of which his son, Barry Weiss, is president and chief executive.
        Born in Romania and raised in the Bronx, Mr. Weiss got his start as a salesman for R&B labels like Modern and Exclusive. With his brother Sam he started a label, Old Town Records, in 1953, and they soon earned a reputation for their ears in signing talent as well as for their business tactics.
        Hy Weiss, who took control of the label in 1956, was an aggressive pitchman who bragged in print about using the ''$50 handshake,'' an important tool before the government crackdown on payola, when record men frequently offered enticements to radio stations to play their songs.
        ''You didn't have to go out to dinner with someone,'' Mr. Weiss told Fredric Dannen in his 1990 book, ''Hit Men: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music Business.'' ''Just pay them, here's the money, play the record.''
        Old Town, based in a small office inside a movie theater on East 125th Street, borrowed its name from a wholesale paper company where Sam Weiss worked. But that was not all the Weiss brothers borrowed: to give their label the illusion of having a prestigious Madison Avenue address, they also used the paper company's stationery for their own business correspondence.
        Specializing in acts from Harlem and elsewhere around New York, Old Town released records that spanned doo-wop, pop, R&B and blues.
        Among the label's hits were ''The Wedding,'' by the Solitaires; ''We Belong Together,'' by Robert and Johnny; ''So Fine,'' by the Fiestas; and Billy Bland's ''Let the Little Girl Dance,'' a No. 7 hit in 1960. They also recorded blues by artists like Willie Dixon and the duo Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee. Mr. Weiss wrote many of the songs released by Old Town and its subsidiary labels, including Barry, named after his son.
        The label's popularity declined with the growth of rock music in the '60s, though it had hits by the crooner Arthur Prysock. Mr. Weiss sold his label and publishing company, Maureen Music, in 1996, and some of the Old Town catalog has been reissued by Ace, a British label.
        Besides his son, who lives in Demarest, N.J., and his brother Sam, of Manhattan, Mr. Weiss is survived by another brother, George, of Oceanside, N.Y.; two daughters, Maureen Spergel of East Meadow, N.Y., and Pam Katz of Manhattan; and four grandchildren.
      