
        Henri Troyat, the Russian-born French writer whose novels and biographies earned him an immense following in France and considerable recognition abroad, died here on Sunday. He was 95.
        His death was announced by the Académie Française, of which he was a member.
        Mr. Troyat was only 27 when he won the prestigious Prix Goncourt and became a permanent figure on the French literary scene, known not only for his enormous output, totaling 105 books, but also for the lucidity of his language.
        ''He wrote a simple and clear language, a language that lasts, eternal French,'' Maurice Droun, a fellow member of the Académie Française, noted in a tribute Monday.
        Perhaps because he avoided the experimentation of the postwar Nouveau Roman movement, led by novelists like Nathalie Sarraute, Marguerite Duras and Alain Robbe-Grillet, Mr. Troyat was never a darling of French intellectuals. But French readers always embraced him.
        As Le Figaro wrote Monday, ''the favorite writer of the French is dead.''
        Born in Moscow on Nov. 1, 1911, Lev Aslanovitch Tarassov was only 9 when his wealthy parents fled the Russian Revolution for France. Already fluent in French thanks to a Swiss governess, he took the name Henri Troyat after he published his first novel at the age of 24. Three years later, in 1938, his fifth novel, ''L'Araigne,'' won the Prix Goncourt.
        Years later, he recalled how he forged his writing style. ''I would read a paragraph of Flaubert out loud and rewrite it from memory,'' he explained, ''then, by comparing my version with the original, I would try to understand why what I had written was an affront to what I had read.''
        From 1940, when he published his biography of Dostoyevsky, he completed a novel or a biography almost yearly.
        ''A day without writing made him feel like a sinner,'' Mr. Droun wrote Monday. ''For a long time he wrote standing up. The carpet in front of his desk was full of holes.''
        Mr. Troyat also wrote a play, ''Sébastien,'' which was staged in Paris in 1946, while several of his novels were turned into movies, including ''La Neige en Deuil,'' which was adapted for the screen in 1956 as ''The Mountain,'' starring Spencer Tracy. He was elected to a seat in the Académie Française in 1959.
        Although he never returned to Russia and always wrote in French, Russia remained present in much of his work, notably in a stream of biographies, of Ivan the Terrible, Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, Alexander II, Nicholas II, Rasputin and other historical figures and of Russian literary giants like Tolstoy, Pushkin, Gogol, Chekhov and, most recently, Boris Pasternak.
        In these biographies, Mr. Troyat's narrative style was above all accessible. Reviewing ''Alexander of Russia'' for The New York Times Book Review in 1983, James H. Billington wrote that ''Mr. Troyat approaches history in the manner of the old-fashioned omniscient observer, distilling from the rich memoirs of the era morsels of dialogue and vignettes of life in the court and around the battlefield.''
        His popular biographies also included major French writers, among them Flaubert, Maupassant, Verlaine, Baudelaire, Alexandre Dumas, Zola and Balzac. Most of these were also translated into numerous languages, including English.
        Mr. Troyat is survived by one son, Jean-Daniel, from his 1948 marriage to Marguerite Saintagne, who died before him.
        The nearest he came to writing an autobiography was his novel ''Aliocha,'' published in 1991, which recounts the story of a 13-year-old immigrant to France whose experiences resembled his own. It is nonetheless fiction. ''I'd have felt uncomfortable telling my own story,'' he explained at the time.
        Correction:  March 9, 2007, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about Henri Troyat, the Russian-born French writer, misspelled the surname of a fellow member of the Académie Française who paid tribute to him. He is Maurice Druon, not Droun.
        Correction:  March 15, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on March 6 about Henri Troyat, the popular Russian-born French writer, referred incompletely to his survivors. Besides his son, Jean-Daniel, they include his stepdaughter, Michèle Troyat McKeown; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      