
        Joel Brodsky, a photographer whose work appeared on the covers of hundreds of albums -- most memorably ''The Best of the Doors,'' with its provocative Christlike image of Jim Morrison in black and white -- died on March 1 in Stamford, Conn., where he had lived for five years. He was 67 and had previously lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Jill Holt said.
        Mr. Brodsky did the photography for more than 400 album covers, specializing in rock and soul performers like Isaac Hayes, Country Joe and the Fish and Iggy Pop. He also photographed blues singers, including Buddy Guy and Junior Wells.
        His album cover shoots were all paid jobs for record companies, Ms. Holt said, and to the end of his life Mr. Brodsky approached photography more as work than as art.
        At a presentation of his work for the Morrison Hotel Gallery in New York last year, he explained how he shot the cover for ''The Isaac Hayes Movement'' (1970) through metallic foil to achieve an effect that resembled rain.
        ''When you get something that works,'' Mr. Brodsky said, ''you stay with it.''
        Joel Lee Brodsky was born in Brooklyn and became interested in photography through a college class. He graduated from Syracuse University in 1960, found a job at a camera store in Brooklyn soon after, and had opened his own studio by 1964.
        His first album cover shot was of the folk singer Eric Andersen. Mr. Brodsky agreed to photograph Mr. Andersen as a favor to a friend of Mr. Brodsky's wife. He shot what became known as the ''young lion'' session, the Morrison photos that made him famous, in 1966.
        By 1980 Mr. Brodsky had moved from photographing musicians to doing advertising work for Revlon, Avon, DuPont and other companies.
        Mr. Brodsky's work has been shown at the Govinda Gallery in Washington and the Fahey/Klein Gallery in Los Angeles.
        He is survived by his wife, Valerie, of Stamford; three daughters, Jill Holt of North Salem, N.Y., Alexandra Alland of Boston and Brooke, of Manhattan; his sister, Roberta Willenkin of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
        Ms. Holt said that her father loved music, but that although the Doors were the subjects of the images that made him well known, he did not particularly enjoy theirs.
      