
        Paul Secon, who in 1949 loaded the family station wagon with discontinued and slightly damaged ceramics from an upstate New York factory, drove to Manhattan and opened the first Pottery Barn store, died Feb. 24 at his home in Rochester. He was 91.
        The death was confirmed by his brother, Morris, who helped load the car and start the chain.
        Although the Secon brothers eventually opened seven Pottery Barns, including three in Manhattan, they never quite made a fortune from their enterprise.
        ''When I left the business, we called it the Poverty Barn,'' Morris Secon said in a telephone interview Tuesday. He managed the chain for several years after his brother left the business in 1966. ''We were two kids playing store; we made a living,'' he said.
        In 1968, Morris Secon sold his share to two partners whom he had brought into the business. They, in turn, sold the company to Gap, which in 1986 sold it for $6 million to Williams-Sonoma. There are now 197 Pottery Barn stores in the United States and Canada, selling furniture, bedding, rugs, lighting products and decorative accessories.
        When the 12-foot-wide, 110-foot-long original store opened on 10th Avenue between 18th and 19th Streets, the product line was more limited: platters, plates, pitchers, cups and saucers that were nicked or slightly misshapen.
        Morris Secon had seen the opportunity when his wife returned from a yard sale in Rochester with a dozen pieces of stoneware produced by Glidden Parker, a noted designer, at his factory in Alfred, N.Y. She had paid less than a dollar for each piece. Morris Secon spoke with Mr. Parker and found out that there were three barns filled with products that could no longer be sold to upscale stores.
        For $2,500, the Secon brothers bought 2,500 pieces of stoneware. For $35 a month, they rented the store.
        Paul Secon was born in Philadelphia on July 13, 1916. Besides his brother, he is survived by a son, Lucas, of London. Mr. Secon was a magazine writer in Manhattan when his brother proposed that they open the store. In 1952, an article in The New Yorker mentioned that people could buy good-quality, if slightly flawed, ceramics at the Pottery Barn; it started a rush.
        In 1954, a second Pottery Barn opened on the ground floor of a large space on 10th Avenue, near 24th Street. The 1955 Christmas season was so successful ''that customers had to wait upstairs until their numbers were called so the crush on the first floor would not turn into a stampede,'' a 1963 New York Times article said.
        By the mid-1960s, Mr. Secon was touring factories around the country and in Europe to find products that met his specifications.
        ''You can't sell people anything you don't like yourself,'' he said.
      