
        Orin E. Atkins, who helped transform Ashland Oil from a regional oil refiner into a multinational energy conglomerate but whose 16-year tenure as chief executive was marred by improper business dealings, died on Friday in Dallas. He was 82.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said a son, Randall W. Atkins.
        When Mr. Atkins was appointed chief executive of Ashland Oil in 1965, the company was a refiner that sold oil products in the eastern United States. After he took over, Ashland set out on a path of expansion. It scoured the world for new sources of crude oil and aggressively branched out into other industries, like mining and chemicals, in the United States.
        By the time Mr. Atkins stepped down in 1981, the company -- which is based in Kentucky and now known as Ashland Inc. -- had grown twentyfold in terms of sales, becoming a conglomerate with revenue of almost $10 billion.
        Yet the record of Mr. Atkins was tainted by dubious decisions along the way.
        In the early 1970s, Ashland and Mr. Atkins were caught up in the Watergate scandal, fined for secretly funneling more than $700,000 in corporate money to the campaign to re-elect President Richard M. Nixon as well as to the campaign war chests of several other politicians, both Democratic and Republican. Mr. Atkins pleaded no contest, while the company pleaded guilty.
        The efforts to secure oil overseas also led to some questionable payments. Under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company admitted in 1975 that it had paid almost $500,000 to government officials and consultants in Nigeria, Gabon, the Dominican Republic and Libya.
        ''The moral climate of the country has changed, and things that happened before Watergate are not acceptable today,'' Mr. Atkins said at a company meeting in 1975. ''I felt I was doing what was done generally.''
        Still, the S.E.C. contended that in 1980 Ashland oil made millions of dollars in illegal payments to advisers of the sultan of Oman, in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, which prohibits the bribing of foreign officials.
        Ashland and Mr. Atkins settled with the S.E.C. without admitting or denying wrongdoing. But in the aftermath of those dealings, Mr. Atkins was pressured to step down, and he received a lucrative consulting contract.
        The efforts to secure oil in Oman were a response to losing access to Iran, a leading supplier of Ashland, when President Jimmy Carter imposed an embargo on Iranian oil after students seized the United States Embassy in Tehran in 1979.
        In 1988, federal agents arrested Mr. Atkins after customs officials secretly videotaped him telling a business associate to sell some secret Ashland memorandums to the national Iranian oil company.
        Seven tankers loaded with $283 million worth of crude oil had been on their way to the United States when President Carter declared the embargo. Ashland received the oil but never paid for the shipments.
        In 1989, Mr. Atkins pleaded guilty to offering the Iranians stolen documents they could use in a lawsuit against Ashland.
        In 1989, Ashland paid the Iranian oil company $325 million to settle its claim. Mr. Atkins was sentenced in 1990 to two years' probation and community service. He also agreed to pay Ashland $2.25 million.
        Orin Ellsworth Atkins was born June 6, 1924, in Pittsburgh. He graduated from Marshall University and the University of Virginia Law School.
        He served in the Army infantry during World War II, receiving two purple hearts for battle injuries: a bullet wound in France and serious wounds caused by a grenade in Germany, his son Randall said.
        Mr. Atkins's first wife, Kathryn Agee Atkins, died in 1989.
        He is survived by his wife, Candace Garner Atkins; one brother, Marvin Atkins; two sons from his first marriage, Randall Whittaker Atkins and Charles Agee Atkins; and five grandchildren.
      