
        William R. Anderson, who commanded the nuclear-powered submarine Nautilus on its historic cruise beneath the North Pole in August 1958 and who later served three terms in Congress, died Feb. 25 near his home in Leesburg, Va. He was 85.
        His wife, Patricia, confirmed the death to The Tennessean, a newspaper in Nashville.
        Commander Anderson and his 107-member crew were hailed as heroes after their Aug. 3, 1958, arrival below the pole, a voyage that fascinated millions who had considered Jules Verne's ''Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea'' a fantasy.
        At a time of rivalry between the United States and the Soviet Union over who would first send humans into space, the accomplishment was greeted by banner headlines around the world. When the Nautilus made landfall in Portland, England, after 21 days and 8,146 nautical miles, much of the way under the polar ice, Commander Anderson received word that President Dwight D. Eisenhower had awarded him the Legion of Merit and that his crew members would receive the first Presidential Unit Citation in peacetime.
        Mr. Anderson made headlines again in 1971 when, as the congressman from a rural, conservative district about 65 miles west of Nashville, he stood on the House floor and rebuked J. Edgar Hoover, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, for accusing two prominent opponents of the Vietnam War of plotting to kidnap a government official and blow up electrical systems in the Washington area. He termed Hoover's accusations the ''climax'' of ''an outrageous pattern of fear and repression.''
        Coming from a soft-spoken, moderate Democrat who had long supported the Vietnam War, Mr. Anderson's statement was especially surprising.
        William Robert Anderson was born on June 17, 1921, in Bakerville, Tenn., a crossroads town with two gas pumps in front of one general store. He was a son of David and Mary M. Anderson. His father sold lumber.
        Besides his wife, according to The Tennessean, Mr. Anderson is survived by a daughter, Jane Anderson, of Leesburg; and three sons, Thomas, of Leesburg; Michael, of Haymarket, Va., and William, of Orange County, Va. His first marriage, to Yvonne Etzel, ended in divorce.
        Mr. Anderson graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1942 and was assigned to the Navy's submarine school in Groton, Conn.; he qualified for submarine duty within a year. On one of his missions during World War II, his submarine brought supplies to guerillas fighting the Japanese in the Philippines.
        In 1949, he was assigned to the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps at the University of Idaho. But two years later, he went back to sea and, in May 1953, became commanding officer of the Wahoo, a submarine that saw action off Korea.
        In July 1955, Commander Anderson was named head of the tactical department of the submarine school. He was later assigned to the Atomic Energy Commission's division of reactor development in Washington and became an aide to Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, known as the father of the nuclear Navy. On June 19, 1957, he took command of the Nautilus.
        Although the Nautilus was never in combat, it was valued as a research vessel. It could reach speeds in excess of 20 knots and, except for the need to restore the crew's food supply, could remain submerged indefinitely.
        For the Nautilus crew, life was actually smooth sailing. A Life magazine article on Sept. 1, 1958, pointed out that there was a jukebox and a Coca-Cola machine on board; that the temperature inside was 72, and that sunlamps were available to those who became claustrophobic.
        ''It was like the New Jersey Turnpike once we got started,'' Commander Anderson said.
        Yet navigating under the ice, sometimes 400 feet below it, was unpredictable. Crew members plotted every hole in it, in case of emergency.
        As the Nautilus inched below the pole, the crew began crowding into its attack center, where Commander Anderson waited, microphone in hand. ''During the last minute,'' the Life article said, ''he made a countdown, concluding 'three two one mark.' Then he said, 'Sunday, 3 August 1958; 2315 Eastern Daylight Saving Time. For the U.S. and the U.S. Navy: the North Pole.' ''
        Commander Anderson then asked for a moment of silence.
        After retiring from the Navy in 1962, Mr. Anderson -- without an organization, money or campaign experience -- ran for governor of Tennessee as an independent and lost. But three years later he was elected to Congress as a Democrat.
        It was in December 1970 that Mr. Anderson criticized Hoover's pretrial attack on two Roman Catholic priests, Daniel J. and Philip F. Berrigan, who were later convicted of destroying draft board records. Mr. Anderson started to have doubts about the Vietnam War as death notices increased among his constituents; doubts rose further after he visited Vietnam in 1970.
        Mr. Anderson read an article in The Washington Post quoting Hoover as saying, in a closed Senate hearing, that the Berrigans planned to kidnap a government official and hold him hostage to demand an end to bombing in Vietnam and to disrupt government operations by blowing up electrical conduits.
        In his speech on the House floor, Mr. Anderson said, ''Mr. Hoover has resorted to tactics reminiscent of McCarthyism, using newspaper headlines and scare dynamics, rather than the due process of law.''
      