
        María Julia Hernández, a prominent human rights advocate who braved death squads to speak for the victims of the long civil war in El Salvador, died Friday in San Salvador, the capital. She was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, said her aides at Tutela Legal, the human rights office of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Salvador, where Ms. Hernández was the founding director.
        She spent nearly 30 years gathering evidence of massacres and individual killings, interviewing survivors, seeing that they stayed alive and compiling a book of the dead. It grew into an encyclopedia of political violence. In a land where the rule of the law was weak, she saw herself as a force for solidarity.
        She worked in a barely furnished room decorated by a cross and two photographs of Archbishop Óscar Arnulfo Romero, the church leader who was assassinated in 1980 by right-wing forces in El Salvador. He was killed while celebrating Mass, after calling upon the army to stop the shadowy death squads who were attacking real and imagined opponents of the status quo.
        The killing of the archbishop was among the opening shots of a civil war that lasted until 1992, though its aftershocks continue in El Salvador. It was also a central event in Ms. Hernández's life, which ended 27 years to the day after the archbishop's burial.
        She had worked with Archbishop Romero, who was installed in 1977, at the start of a 15-year wave of violence that pitted a relative handful of left-wing guerrillas against the ruling class, the armed forces and the government of El Salvador. Most of the 75,000 victims of that violence were peasants who were killed while passively resisting the powers of the state. Also among the dead were American nuns, Jesuit priests and urban political advocates.
        Even after the war ended in 1992, the conflicting forces remained at odds, with criminal gangs playing the roles that death squads held during the cold war.
        ''Human rights today is a very delicate subject here,'' Ms. Hernández said in a 2005 interview published in The Nation. ''The majority of people are threatened every day -- by the gangs, of course, but also by bandits and even the national police, who are very corrupt and take bribes. They also still use torture.''
        ''The same causes exist that were here before the civil war -- social and economic inequality, the threat and reality of violence,'' she said. ''The politicians are shouting now instead of shooting, but the conditions are the same as before.''
        She was born in 1939 in San Francisco Morazán, Honduras, to Salvadoran parents. Her family returned to El Salvador shortly after her birth. She never married, dedicating her life to the church and its work among the people of her country.
      