
        Warren E. Preece, a former editor of The Encyclopaedia Britannica who in the early 1970s shepherded it through its first major redesign in decades, a task he likened publicly to fighting a war, died on Wednesday in Philadelphia. He was 85 and had lived in Philadelphia in recent years.
        The apparent cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Published in 1974, the 15th edition -- also known as Britannica 3 -- split the encyclopedia into three parts. The first part, the Propaedia (from the Greek for ''before learning''), was a one-volume outline that served as a guide to the rest of the encyclopedia. The Propaedia's articles were arranged not alphabetically but rather by subject: the earth, human life, human society, art, technology, religion and so on.
        The second part, the Micropaedia (''little learning''), comprising 10 volumes, was designed for quick reference, offering short alphabetical articles of no more than 750 words each.
        The third, the Macropaedia (''great learning''), spanned 19 volumes and contained more than 4,000 articles, also arranged alphabetically, which explored subjects in depth. Among them were accounting, adhesives (including a subsection on the history of cement) and Zoroastrianism.
        The 15th edition, which cost more than $32 million to produce, represented the culmination of nearly two decades of work. At 30 volumes and 43 million words, it outdid the 14th edition, published in 1929, by six volumes and six million words. (First published in Edinburgh from 1768 to 1771, The Encyclopaedia Britannica has been American-owned since 1901.)
        Mr. Preece oversaw the encyclopedia from 1964 until his retirement in 1975, serving variously as editor, editor in chief and general editor. As Britannica 3 loomed, he and a staff of 360 in the encyclopedia's office, in Chicago, commissioned and edited articles on a staggering array of subjects. (It also fell to Mr. Preece, after Britannica 3 was published, to arrange for revisions to its articles on the 15 republics of the Soviet Union, after readers complained that they had a pro-Soviet slant.)
        Britannica 3's elaborate system of cross-indexing anticipated a world of knowledge (today visible at www.britannica.com) in which everything was connected to everything else. For some readers, this made the 15th edition a cross-referential paradise, from which one emerged reluctantly -- older, glassy-eyed and a great deal wiser -- after a very long time.
        In a 1974 article on Britannica 3's publication, Time magazine described the experience this way:
        ''If a reader wants a detailed description of icebergs, for example, he looks in the Propaedia under Part 2 -- the earth; then under Division II -- the earth's envelope: its atmosphere and hydrosphere. Next, beneath the listing for 'The distribution of water in the hydrosphere,' he finds the heading 'ice.' Finally he comes to 'icebergs and pack ice,' with a reference to the appropriate section of a lengthy article in Volume 9 of the Macropaedia.''
        Readers with less staying power could simply look up ''icebergs'' in the Micropaedia.
        Warren Eversleigh Preece was born on April 17, 1921, in Norwalk, Conn. He earned a bachelor's degree in English from Dartmouth in 1943 and a master's degree from Columbia in 1947. In World War II he served with the Army in the Philippines.
        Mr. Preece's wife, the former Deborah Weeks, whom he married in 1947, died in 2002. He is survived by two sons, Scott, of Champaign, Ill., and Mark, of Conshohocken, Pa.; a daughter, Thayer Woodcock of Nyack, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
        In the 1974 Time magazine article, Mr. Preece reflected on his years of wrestling with the behemoth that was Britannica 3:
        ''I don't know anyone who was intimately involved who would knowingly do it again,'' he said.
      