
        Rexford E. Tompkins, a former chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York who was one of the industry's leading voices in creating New York City's rent stabilization system, died Thursday near his home in Miami. Mr. Tompkins was 90.
        The death was announced by his daughter Diana Schwatka.
        Mr. Tompkins, who became president of the Dry Dock Savings Bank after his real estate career, was chairman of the real estate board, the industry's major Manhattan trade association, from 1970 to 1972. He represented the board in negotiations with the city that led to the enactment the 1969 Rent Stabilization Law.
        Falling vacancy rates and rising rents for apartments that did not fall under rent control had prompted Mayor John V. Lindsay to ask major owners of unregulated apartments to propose a self-regulation program; he also created the Rent Guidelines Board to evaluate the landlords' proposal.
        The stabilization law initially applied to about 325,000 apartments built after Feb. 1, 1947, and to 75,000 that had emerged from rent control for various reasons. There are now about one million apartments under rent stabilization.
        At a City Council hearing in 1969, according to a real estate board document, Mr. Tompkins reminded Council members of a promise made to owners in 1947 that all new housing built after that year would be unregulated. He criticized the bill proposed by the Rent Guidelines Board, but said the industry would abide by its standards.
        The board, which now has nine members, including two tenant representatives and two landlord representatives, takes into account factors like owners' operating costs, vacancy rates and tenant incomes in setting lease renewal rates.
        Rexford Emerson Tompkins was born in Erie, Pa., on July 14, 1916. His father died when he was 3, and he was sent to an orphanage, but he earned a scholarship to Swarthmore College, from which he graduated in 1942. In World War II, he served in the Army, flying bombing missions over Italy and rising to lieutenant colonel.
        In 1948, Mr. Tompkins graduated from the Columbia Law School. He worked at a Wall Street firm for several years before being named president of City and Suburban Homes, a real estate firm. In 1968, Mr. Tompkins became president of Brown Harris Stevens, one of Manhattan's leading real estate concerns. He was named president of the Dry Dock Savings Bank in 1972 and chairman in 1979.
        Among other civic activities, Mr. Tompkins served as chairman of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan research organization founded in 1932 to analyze the efficiency of the city government, and of the Citizens Crime Commission, a nonprofit group financed by the business community.
        Besides his daughter Diana, of Larchmont, N.Y., Mr. Tompkins is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Phoebe Maravel; another daughter, Penelope Tompkins of Burlington, Vt.; a son, Andrew of Erie, Pa.; seven granddaughters and five great-grandchildren.
      