
        Michael Dibdin, an internationally acclaimed British crime novelist whose best-known books feature the brooding Italian police detective Aurelio Zen, died on March 30 in Seattle. He was 60 and had lived in Seattle in recent years.
        Mr. Dibdin died after a short illness, his stepdaughter, Emma Marris, said.
        Police Commissioner Aurelio Zen starred in 10 novels, among them ''Ratking'' (Bantam, 1989); ''Dead Lagoon'' (Pantheon, 1994); ''Medusa'' (Pantheon, 2003); and, most recently, ''Back to Bologna'' (Vintage, 2006). Mr. Dibdin's 11th Zen novel, ''End Games,'' is scheduled to be published in hardcover by Pantheon Books this fall.
        Each Aurelio Zen novel took its hero to a different part of Italy, from Zen's native Venice to Rome, Milan, Naples, Perugia, Tuscany, Sicily, Sardinia and elsewhere. The books were notable for their intricate plots, psychological complexity, mordant humor and acute social observation.
        Above all, the novels were read avidly for Mr. Dibdin's masterly distillation of Italy, whether he was writing about its politics (read: corruption), the church, the Mafia, fashion, truffles, wine or old stones. Where else, after all (with the possible exception of France), would a detective witness a cook-off between a celebrity chef and a semiotician, something Zen does in ''Back to Bologna''?
        Reviewing ''Blood Rain'' (Pantheon, 1999), the seventh installment in the Zen series, in The New York Times Book Review, Marilyn Stasio wrote:
        ''Dibdin has always been a master at adapting his style to the various Italian provinces where he sets his stories. In Piedmont, his voice was elegiac; in Venice, menacing; in Rome, cynical and sad. Sicily, where life is lived as 'ritual theater,' brings out the Greek tragedian in him.''
        What makes Zen a likable character is his unlikability. He is gloomy and cynical. He can be dour and dyspeptic. He has trouble sustaining intimate relationships. (In the first few novels, he lived with his mother.)
        Mr. Dibdin also wrote several stand-alone crime novels, among them ''The Tryst'' (Summit, 1990); ''Dirty Tricks'' (Summit, 1991); ''The Dying of the Light'' (Pantheon, 1993); and ''Thanksgiving'' (Pantheon, 2001).
        Michael John Dibdin was born on March 21, 1947, in Wolverhampton, in the Staffordshire district of England. His father was a physicist turned folklorist, and the family spent years wandering Britain so that the elder Mr. Dibdin could collect folk songs. At 7, Michael put his foot down, and the family stayed where they were, which happened to be Lisburn, Northern Ireland.
        After earning an undergraduate degree in English literature from the University of Sussex in 1968, Mr. Dibdin earned a master's degree from the University of Alberta, in Canada, the next year. He stayed in Canada for several more years, working as a house painter, before moving to London.
        He later relocated to Italy, where he spent four years teaching English in Perugia. Returning to England, Mr. Dibdin settled in Oxford, where he lived before moving to the United States in the mid-1990s.
        Mr. Dibdin's first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Kathrine Kristine Beck, who writes crime novels under the name K. K. Beck; his father, John, of Chichester, England; two daughters from his earlier marriages, Moselle Kennedy of Vancouver, Canada, and Emma Dibdin, a student at Cambridge University; and three stepchildren, Emma Marris of Washington; Andrew Marris of Seattle; and Alexander Marris, a student at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash.
        Drawing on his scholarly training and his Italian sojourn, Mr. Dibdin began his career with two literary pastiches. In the first, ''The Last Sherlock Holmes Story'' (Pantheon, 1978), Holmes takes on Jack the Ripper. In the second, ''A Rich Full Death'' (Vintage, 1999), Robert Browning investigates a death in Florence.
        While critics heaped praise on the Mr. Dibdin's Zen novels, their response to his other books varied. To some reviewers, the scope of the non-Zen books -- which ranged from an exploration of the relationship between a psychiatrist and her patient (''The Tryst'') to a dark satire of Thatcherite Britain (''Dirty Tricks'') to a sendup of English country-house mysteries (''The Dying of the Light'') -- made Mr. Dibdin hard to pigeonhole.
        If his wide portfolio made him unclassifiable, Mr. Dibdin seemed to revel in the fact. As he wrote in an autobiographical essay for The St. James Guide to Crime and Mystery Writers (1996), his diversity of style ''seems to have disturbed those readers who expect a crime writer's output to be as consistent a product as Egg McMuffins.'' He added:
        ''To me the joy and challenge of working in the crime genre is the opportunity to weave one's own counterpoint and harmonies -- occasionally dissonant to some ears -- around the great chorus of voices which have preceded us; to make the most rather than the least of the possibilities which they opened up.''
      