
        Laurie Baker, a British architect whose chance meeting with Mahatma Gandhi in the 1940s started him on a lifelong career of designing low-cost and environmentally respectful houses in India, died on April 1 at the Hamlet, a home he designed himself, in Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of the state of Kerala. He was 90.
        The cause of death was old age and illness, said his son, Tilak Baker.
        Mr. Baker, who was awarded Indian citizenship in 1988, designed many innovative structures and inspired a movement that thrives today in the hands of Indian architects.
        His masterpiece is the Center for Development Studies, a 10-acre postgraduate campus built in the early 1970s on a hill above Thiruvananthapuram. It combines rippling brick walls coiled around trees; shady, circular courtyards; a network of raised walkways; roof terraces; and an eight-story library tower.
        A pacifist from a Quaker family from Birmingham, Mr. Baker had studied architecture there before being stranded for several months in what is now Mumbai, on his way home from World War II service with a naval medical unit. Through Quaker friends, he met Gandhi, who took an amused look at the shoes he had sewn together from discarded scraps and asked him if he could use that kind of ingenuity in architecture to help build homes for India's poor.
        Mr. Baker decided that inexpensive local building methods rather than the concrete slums that Gandhi sent him to see constituted the solution to housing the impoverished. Gandhi extracted a promise that he would return to India after his naval service ended, and in 1945 he came back with a missionary team. His first job was converting or replacing outdated leper asylums, but he soon made a study of indigenous building methods.
        Mr. Baker, whose full name was Laurence Wilfred Baker, met Elizabeth Jacob, a young doctor involved in rehabilitating leprosy patients. They married in 1948 and worked on the Himalayan borders of Tibet and Nepal until 1962. She survives him, along with his son, Tilak, and his daughters, Vidya and Heidi.
        The Bakers moved to Kerala and set up the Mitra Niketan hospital in the village of Vagamon. It was there that his experiments began in earnest. He had already started sketching and planning earthen structures derived from nature and found the leafy Kerala locales a perfect setting for what came to be called Baker Model Low-Cost Houses.
        In 1965, the Bakers moved to Thiruvananthapuram. Soon, the mud and brick dwelling clusters he designed for the poor dotted the landscape, along with institutions and a few individual homes he designed for close friends.
        In the 1980s, Mr. Baker's ideas caught the imagination of many environmentally aware young Indian architects who now work for the Center of Science and Technology for Rural Development, a nonprofit organization following his approach. It has built homes for 10,000 poor families without charging design fees.
      