
        Darryl Stingley, a receiver for the New England Patriots who became a quadriplegic after an intentionally violent hit in a 1978 preseason game, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 55.
        Tony Brucci, an investigator with the Cook County medical examiner's office, told The Associated Press that Stingley had been found unresponsive in his home and was pronounced dead at the hospital. After an autopsy, the medical examiner's office said bronchial pneumonia, quadriplegia, spinal-cord injury and coronary atherosclerosis all contributed to his death.
        On Aug. 12, 1978, in a game between the Patriots and the Oakland Raiders, a pass to Stingley fell incomplete. Jack Tatum, a Raiders safety known for rough play, slammed into Stingley with his helmet. Two vertebrae in Stingley's neck were broken and his spinal cord was severely damaged.
        Although he was paralyzed from the neck down, extensive therapy helped Stingley regain limited use of his hands and arms, and allowed him to operate an electric wheelchair.
        Tatum symbolized the violent play of many National Football League players at the time. He was not penalized on the play, and the league took no action, but it tightened its rules to punish players who made such hits.
        In 1982, a brief report in The New York Times said:
        ''The dream from which Darryl Stingley does not like to awaken is one in which he is a football player again. He says he is suited up for the game. He stands in the stadium runway. 'The dream always ended at the point when I'm going out on the field and ready to play,' he says. 'But it never goes beyond that.' ''
        In 1998, Stingley told The A.P.:
        ''I have relived that moment over and over again. I was 26 years old at the time and I remember thinking, What's going to happen to me? If I live, what am I going to be like? And then there were all those whys, whys, whys.''
        Stingley and Tatum never met or talked after the injury. In 1983, Stingley said: ''He has not contacted me, not even a mystery postcard. The bottom line is that I feel sorry for him. He's a man that can't bend to really be a man. Sitting in my wheelchair, I'm taller than he is.''
        Tatum always defended himself, saying, ''This is the way the game is played.''
        In Tatum's 1980 autobiography, he said: ''I like to believe that my best hits border on felonious assault.''
        He also said he was going for ''an intimidating hit'' against Stingley, and proposed that the league outlaw quick slant-in patterns like the one on which Stingley was hurt. Dave Anderson wrote in The Times, ''It's almost as if John Wilkes Booth's autobiography glorified his murder of Abraham Lincoln while suggesting that thereafter a president be prohibited from attending the theater.''
        Darryl Floyd Stingley was born Sept. 18, 1951, in Chicago and was reared there. After a high school career as a running back, he became a 6-foot, 194-pound wide receiver at Purdue, leaving in 1973 when the Patriots chose him in the first round of the N.F.L. draft. Years later, he returned and earned a degree in 1991.
        In five seasons with the Patriots, Stingley played 60 games and caught 110 passes for 1,883 yards and 14 touchdowns. For 12 years after the injury, he was a consultant to the Patriots from his home in Chicago.
        Stingley is survived by his wife, Martine; three sons, Hank, John and Derek; and several grandchildren. Derek Stingley played eight years in the Arena Football League and now coaches the South Georgia Wildcats of Arena Football's development league.
        In 2003, Darryl Stingley told The Boston Globe that he carried no grudge.
        ''One person deliberately hurt another person,'' he said. ''I'm not in denial about it. He said he went out there to hurt and maim people. But for me to go on and adapt to a new way of life, I had to forgive him.''
        In a twist of fate that year, complications of diabetes led to the amputation of Tatum's left leg below the knee, and his right leg was threatened by a blocked artery. Stingley felt for the man who had changed his life.
        ''You can't, as a human being, feel happy about something like that happening to another human being,'' Stingley said. ''Maybe the natural reaction is to think he got what was coming to him, but I don't accept human nature as our real nature. Human nature teaches us to hate. God teaches us to love.''
        Similar sentiments appeared in Stingley's 1983 autobiography, ''Happy to Be Alive.'' Tatum's autobiography was titled ''They Call Me Assassin.''
      