
        Hans Koning, whose outpouring of more than 40 fiction and nonfiction books ranged from exotic travel to erotic trauma to a withering indictment of Christopher Columbus, died on Friday at his home in Easton, Conn. He was 85.
        His daughter Christina Koning confirmed the death, but declined to give a cause.
        Mr. Koning wrote novels, plays, screenplays, travel books, young adult books and many magazine articles, particularly for The New Yorker. He also did translations. His stated goal was to reflect on injustice and the essential state of being human ''in a hidden way.'' But his strongly leftist politics were seldom camouflaged.
        His ''Columbus: His Enterprise -- Exploding the Myth'' was published in 1976, the United States's bicentennial year, and reprinted in 1992, the 500th anniversary of Columbus's voyage. Mr. Koning portrayed Columbus as a deep-eyed villain, raping, pillaging and enslaving as he ruthlessly pursued profits.
        He said that Indians' hands were cut off when they could not meet their gold dust quota and that their chiefs were roasted on fires of green wood. Survivors killed themselves by eating poisonous roots, he wrote.
        An emotional firestorm erupted, as Columbus's defenders praised his courage and quoted his own log as saying that he ''begged'' his men to keep ''the friendship and love'' of the Indians. The book, which sold 30,000 copies just in 1992, is still in print and commonly used high-school text.
        Mr. Koning's personal politics included helping form Resist, which began during the Vietnam War as a draft-resistance group and now addresses many causes. During the war, as a personal protest, he wrote only nonfiction and exiled himself to London.
        In his early career, he wrote under his birth name, Hans Koningsberger, but shortened it for the benefit of friends in the antiwar movement, he said. His last book under the old name was ''The Future of Che Guevara'' (1971) and his first under the new one was ''The Almost World'' (1972).
        Among his better-known works are ''A Walk With Love and Death'' (1961), a love story set against a background of plague, rebellion and violence in 14th-century France; ''The Conquest of America: How the Indians Lost Their Continent,'' a follow-up to the Columbus book; and travel books on China, Russia and Egypt. Many of his earlier novels were about the troubled relationship between love and sex.
        Four novels were made into films: ''A Walk With Love and Death'' (1969), which starred Anjelica Houston and was directed by her father, John; ''The Revolutionary'' (1970), starring Jon Voight; ''Death of a Schoolboy'' (1991), produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation; and ''The Petersburg-Cannes Express'' (2003), which was shot in Moscow.
        Hans Koningsberger was born on July 12, 1921, in Amsterdam; fought in the Dutch resistance and the British Army in World War II; found his way to Indonesia, where he ran a cultural radio program; and arrived in Los Angeles from Singapore by a slow freighter in 1951. His higher education included stints in Amsterdam, Zürich and Paris.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Kate Scanlon; his daughters Christina, of London, Tess Koning-Martinez of San Francisco and Lynne Koningsberger of the Netherlands; and his son, Andrew, of Manhattan.
        His gift for spotting unlikely political implications was evident in an essay he wrote for The New York Times in 2000: he suggested that Rembrandt's portraits were linked to the plundering of the Indies by the Dutch East India Company. He did not say how.
        Correction:  April 24, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Wednesday about the writer Hans Koning misspelled the surname of the star of a movie made from his novel ''A Walk With Love and Death.'' She is Anjelica Huston, not Houston.
      