
        Joseph J. M. Saleh, a film producer and real estate investor who took over what had been the underground powerhouse for Manhattan's short-lived cable car system and converted it into the Angelika Film Center, a cultural hub in Lower Manhattan, died April 18 near his home outside Paris. He was 73 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke, his daughter Eva said.
        Mr. Saleh was the executive producer of five movies, including an early Merchant Ivory film, ''Savages'' (1972), and ''Streetwise,'' a documentary about teenage runaways in Seattle, which was nominated for an Academy Award in 1985.
        It was in 1989 that Mr. Saleh and his first wife, Angelika Ohl, opened the six-screen Angelika Film Center in the basement of the Cable Building, at the corner of Houston and Mercer Streets. They planned to cater to young singles and childless, college-educated couples by showing first-run major and independent movies, revivals and foreign films.
        The Salehs spent $4 million transforming the 20,000-square-foot space in the 1893 building by clearing it of the huge gears, trusses and leftover cables that for eight years had towed street cars along Broadway from Bowling Green to 50th Street. The line was electrified in 1901. The Salehs lined the theater lobby in steel and gave it Egyptian motifs. The film center was sold to City Cinemas in 1996.
        Mr. Saleh was president of the Angelika Film Center and the Angelika Films Corporation; Angelika Saleh was chairwoman. The couple divorced in 1999.
        Joseph Jamiel Menashi Saleh was born in Hamadan, Iran, on Jan. 18, 1934, the son of Menashi and Naima Saleh. The family came to the United States in the 1940s. Mr. Saleh graduated from Colgate in 1954.
        Mr. Saleh was an associate director of research for CBS News in the 1960s, focusing on public opinion polling, and later was a research director at Columbia Pictures.
        Besides his daughter Eva, of Manhattan, and his mother, who lives in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Mr. Saleh is survived by his second wife, the former Jackie Raynal, whom he married in 1999; another daughter, Jessica Hunt of Park City, Utah; a sister, Angela Shashoua of Brookline, Mass.; and a granddaughter.
      