
        Reginald H. Fuller, a prominent British-born New Testament scholar who used his knowledge of Hebrew and Greek to hunt for the historical Jesus and his fluency in German to debate the nuances with theologians, died on April 4 in Richmond, Va. He was 92.
        The cause was complications of surgery for a broken hip, said the Very Rev. Martha J. Horne, dean and president of the Virginia Theological Seminary, where Dr. Fuller taught for many years.
        In addition to expounding on his biblical criticism in about 20 books, Dr. Fuller translated works by the German pastor and theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer, who was executed in a concentration camp in 1945, accused of having had a role in a plot to kill Hitler. Dr. Fuller helped translate the New Revised Standard Version of the Bible and wrote books on liturgical priorities and theology.
        He also was a practicing Anglican priest for most of his adult life.
        "I've tried to combine an honestly critical approach to the Bible and the New Testament with a firm commitment to the orthodox teachings of the church,'' he said in an interview with The Richmond Times-Dispatch in 2001. ''There's always a tension between these things, but one has to live in that tension.''
        In his long scholarly career, Dr. Fuller dissected the Bible, which he saw as a series of books and teaching traditions with multifarious layers. His interest lay not in archaeology, psychology, philosophy and other disciplines that are now part of Bible scholarship, but in the sacred text itself.
        This emphasis grew out of the year he spent in Germany after graduating from Cambridge in 1937. He studied the critical analysis being done by German Bible scholars, who saw the Resurrection and biblical miracles as mythological.
        Dr. Fuller did not always read the Bible literally either, but he read it carefully. In an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1988, he disputed the concept of an actual corporeal Resurrection. He said the Greek word ''appeared'' that Paul used to describe Jesus' visits after his crucifixion was the same word used elsewhere for visionary experiences.
        Dr. Fuller nonetheless differed with German theologians like Rudolf Bultmann, who dismissed the Resurrection as a myth concocted by the early church. His counterargument was that Jesus' actual message, the coming of the Kingdom, as uncovered by critical Bible study, was convincingly and accurately echoed by early Christians. This placed Dr. Fuller in the scholarly camp called ''neo-orthodox.''
        Hal Taussig, visiting professor of New Testament at Union Theological Seminary in New York, said Dr. Fuller's views were a credible response to the influential Germans. In subsequent decades, American scholars further challenged the German stance and today are often seen to be leading the scholarly quest for the historical Jesus, though in ways different from Dr. Fuller's.
        But his was a first step. Dr. Fuller ''established a critical distance on German scholarship so American scholarship could stand on its own,'' Dr. Taussig said.
        James A. Sanders, a leading scholar of the Dead Sea Scrolls, said Dr. Fuller also connected the Old and New Testaments at a time when the trend was to see them as separate. He and G. Ernest Wright did this in ''The Book of the Acts of God: Christian Scholarship Interprets the Bible'' (1957), which Dr. Sanders said represented ''good solid mid-20th-century thinking.''
        Other works by Dr. Fuller included ''Interpreting the Miracles'' (1963), which discussed biblical miracles, and ''A Critical Introduction to the New Testament'' (1966), which was a standard text in the United States and Britain.
        Reginald Horace Fuller was born in Horsham, England, on March 24, 1915. After graduating from Queens College at Cambridge, he studied at the University of Tübingen in Germany. He returned to England and was ordained an Anglican deacon in 1940 and a priest in 1941.
        He was a curate, or a vicar's assistant, in England from 1940 to 1950, and lectured at the University of Birmingham for the latter half of that decade. From 1950 to 1955, he taught Hebrew at St. David's College in Lampeter, Wales.
        In 1955, he became a professor of New Testament at Seabury-Western Theological Seminary in Evanston, Ill. He taught at Union and at the Virginia Theological Seminary, from which he formally retired in 1985.
        Dr. Fuller is survived by his wife, the former Ilse Barda; his daughters, Caroline Sloat of Pomfret, Conn., and Sally Fuller of Northampton, Mass.; four grandchildren; and five great-grandsons.
        Ms. Sloat said Dr. Fuller believed that the Bible must be proclaimed every Sunday. On March 25, the day he suffered the fall that eventually led to his death, he taught a Sunday school class on the Resurrection.
        Correction:  April 18, 2007, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Reginald H. Fuller, a biblical scholar, misidentified the Cambridge college from which he earned his undergraduate degree. It is Peterhouse, not Queens' College.
      