
        Conrad Spizz, a tough-talking, cigar-chewing artisan of smoked fish whose work was enshrined behind glass at some of New York's best-known food shops, died on April 3 in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in New Hyde Park, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son, Harvey, said.
        Mr. Spizz was the second well-known figure in New York's smoked-fish community to die this month. His death came five days before that of Rubin Caslow, who ran Acme Smoked Fish, in Brooklyn, and whose obituary appeared in newspapers around the country.
        For more than half a century, Mr. Spizz presided, at articulate top volume, over Rego Smoked Fish, a smokehouse and retail outlet in Middle Village, Queens. His death and Mr. Caslow's signaled the passing of an era: when the two men started in the business after World War II, there were scores of smokehouses in New York City. Today, there are barely half a dozen, Harvey Spizz said.
        Perhaps only New York could have supported as many competing smoked-fish fiefs for as long as it did. Their reduced number is a mirror of Jewish assimilation and exodus to the suburbs, and of the changing American palate.
        Mr. Spizz's wares, like Mr. Caslow's, were sold for decades at New York City's most prestigious fish counters, among them Zabar's, Russ & Daughters and Barney Greengrass. But where Acme was -- and remains -- a giant in the field, Rego Smoked Fish was a more modest enterprise. Mr. Spizz, the last of three brothers who founded Rego, closed the business in 2002, when he retired.
        What Mr. Spizz may have lacked in the size of his business, he more than made up for in the size of his personality. If Conrad Spizz had not already existed, Damon Runyon would have had to invent him.
        An immigrant from England whose voice rang with the cadences of his adopted Brooklyn, Mr. Spizz was an impassioned autodidact who taught himself French so he could read Victor Hugo in the original. The shelves of his office were also stocked with Shakespeare, James Joyce, Johnnie Walker and The Daily Racing Form.
        At the smokehouse, the calendar seemed blissfully suspended in 1949, the year Mr. Spizz founded the company with his brothers Ruby and Jackie for $666.33 apiece. There, Mr. Spizz made his fish -- salmon, whitefish, sturgeon and much else -- in a heady cloud of cigar smoke, opera and invective.
        Where most smokehouses smoke their fish over hardwoods, Mr. Spizz stuck to charcoal to the very end. He had no use for computers: he kept all his accounts in his head, typing up invoices on a battered Remington. He worked seven days a week, even when he was in his mid-80s and had already had a stroke. The only thing wrong with him, he told Newsday at the time, was that he could no longer holler.
        Mr. Spizz adored hollering, and by all accounts was very good at it, though perhaps he did it just to be heard above the classical music that played in the smokehouse all day long. A great many things brought him quickly to a full rolling boil. These included his customers, who were often treated to his masterfully chosen Anglo-Saxon vocabulary.
        ''It was the opposite of customer service,'' said Harvey Spizz's daughter Erica Spizz, who worked for her grandfather from 1999 to 2000. Her duties included dropping off quantities of tickets each day at the local Off-Track Betting parlor.
        Conrad Spizz, known as Connie, was born on July 6, 1916, in Manchester, England, to an English mother and a Russian-born father. The family moved to Williamsburg, Brooklyn, when Connie was 12. His father was an ironworker, and Connie and his brothers were introduced to their future profession after helping him do a job in a New York smokehouse.
        After high school, Connie worked on the delivery trucks of several smokehouses, driving fish to stores throughout the city. He studied briefly at City College, but left to help support his family. In World War II, he served with the Army's Ninth Armored Division in the Battle of the Bulge.
        In 1939, Mr. Spizz married a young woman from a good smoked-fish family, Sally Fagin. (He also loved Dickens.) She died in January. Besides his son, Harvey, of Great Neck, N.Y., Mr. Spizz is survived by a daughter, Susan Stollwerk of Searingtown, N.Y.; a brother, Lynn, of Margate, Fla.; and six grandchildren. Another son, Sheldon, died in 2003.
        Somewhat to Mr. Spizz's regret, neither of his sons followed him into the business. But he was hugely proud of their work, in high school and college, as supernumeraries at the Metropolitan Opera. Mr. Spizz had three simultaneous subscriptions to the Met -- Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
        He loved Italian opera best of all. Puccini and Verdi, Mr. Spizz found, were superb to smoke fish to.
      