
        Otto Natzler, a ceramicist best known for inventing glazes resembling geologic textures and colors that he applied to forms created by his wife Gertrud in a famous collaboration of more than three decades, died on April 7 in Los Angeles. He was 99.
        The cause was cancer, said Darrel Couturier, his art dealer for 20 years.
        Gertrud Natzler, who died in 1971, made wafer-thin pots that were complemented by her husband's bold, violent glazes; and Mr. Natzler's gentle, polished finishes were accentuated by his wife's larger, broader forms.
        The two met when they were both 25 and worked together until Ms. Natzler died, leaving about 200 objects for Mr. Natzler to finish. After her death, he did not glaze for a year and a half, but returned to his work at the urging of his second wife, Gail Reynolds, whom he married in 1973 and who survives him.
        Years later, Mr. Natzler turned to creating his own works from scratch, but these were slablike pieces rather than the thrown pots Gertrud Natzler had made.
        No matter what form his art took, Mr. Natzler made meticulous notes about his experiments, including what materials were in the kiln. Sometimes he even knew the kind of tree that went into making the glazes, Mr. Couturier said.
        ''He seemed able to summon up an infinity of colors and a range of textures that went to polar opposites, from scaly to rough to iridescent or covered with crystals,'' Lisa Hammel wrote in a 1986 review in The New York Times.
        Otto Natzler was born in Vienna and studied violin throughout his childhood. He was not accepted for advanced studies in the violin, however, and worked as a textile designer until 1933, when he met his first wife and became interested in clay.
        The two set up a workshop in Vienna, married in 1938 and moved to Los Angeles that same year, right after Austria was annexed by Germany. They had their potter's wheel and their small electric kiln shipped to them.
        Mr. Natzler's work, generally regarded as art, not craft, is in dozens of museums, including the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
      