
        Elizabeth Kals Reilley, a horticultural librarian, scholar and book collector who amassed a major private collection of rare books on landscape design, died on March 29 at her home in Muttontown, N.Y. She was 99.
        Her death was announced by the New York Botanical Garden, to which in 2002 Mrs. Reilley donated her collection, consisting of more than 400 books, prints, engravings and other materials.
        The Elizabeth K. Reilley Collection focuses on the history of European landscape and garden design from the 16th to the 19th centuries. Among its treasures are a 17th-century etching of a banquet in the rather spacious Medici family treehouse and diagrams of the Versailles gardens that include the layout of the kitchen plot, arranged by Louis XIV's ''director general of the fruit and vegetable gardens.''
        The collection was the centerpiece of the exhibition ''European Pleasure Gardens,'' held at the botanical garden in 2003. Writing in The New York Times that year, Grace Glueck described Mrs. Reilley's collection as ''brilliant'' and the exhibition as ''one to delight true garden freaks as well as lovers of books and prints.''
        Mrs. Reilley was also involved for many years with Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park in Oyster Bay on Long Island, not far from her home in Muttontown. In 1969, she began organizing a horticultural library at the arboretum; it opened in 1975. Mrs. Reilley was its resident librarian until 2001, when she retired at 93. Last year, on her 99th birthday, the library's reading room was named for her.
        Elizabeth Kals was born in Vienna on Sept. 8, 1907, into a charmed society. Her parents, she would later say, had ''the nicest apartment in Vienna.'' (Mrs. Reilley was not bragging, but simply stating a fact.) Elizabeth was raised by governesses and educated by tutors and became an accomplished horseback rider.
        Her passion for remarkable gardens was forged in childhood, though she did not realize it at first. Only when Mrs. Reilley was an adult, returning to Austria after a long, well-timed absence, did it strike her that the pretty flowerbeds in which her governesses had taken her to play and the great imperial gardens of turn-of-the-century Vienna were one and the same.
        As a young woman, she studied painting at École des Beaux Arts in Paris and afterward studied archaeology at the University of Vienna, where she investigated the role of the nomadic horsemen of Central Asia in spreading culture. During these years, she also rode as an amateur jockey in European horse races.
        Mrs. Reilley's first husband was Jewish, and after the Nazis came to power, she helped smuggle him out of Austria. She did the same for several other friends. Before long, as she dryly said afterward, she was ''invited to leave.''
        Arriving in New York in 1939, she took a job as a librarian in a metallurgical plant and later worked as a freelance photographer. Afterward, she joined the staff of Time magazine, first as a researcher and later as a reporter, and was later a reporter for Fortune magazine.
        Mrs. Reilly's first two marriages ended in divorce. In 1967, she married Ewing Reilley, a partner in McKinsey & Company, a management consulting concern. He died in 1988. No immediate family members survive.
        After taking classes in architecture and garden design at Yale, Mrs. Reilley earned a degree in library science from C. W. Post College in 1963. She began her collection in the 1960s, scouring the holdings of rare-book dealers in the United States and Europe.
        Ever the meticulous cataloger, Mrs. Reilley identified each species of tree in her own garden with a small green tag. On her death, she said, her property, with its 200-year-old farmhouse, horse barn and grounds thick with hazel, dogwood, locust and forsythia, would pass to the Nature Conservancy.
        As she told Newsday in 2003, ''I don't want a Home Depot here.''
      