
        Mimi Lerner, an internationally renowned mezzo-soprano and educator who came to the operatic stage late in life, died on March 29 in Pittsburgh. She was 61.
        The cause was complications of a heart tumor diagnosed 12 years ago, said her husband, Martin.
        Ms. Lerner's career as a performer was not conventional and began as a passionate hobby. She was a music teacher in public schools in Pittsburgh for several years before she received her master's degree in voice at Carnegie Mellon University in 1975. She sang in choirs and recitals and eventually progressed to performing in small opera houses. She graduated to bigger opera houses with her debut performance at New York City Opera on Nov. 6, 1979, singing the role of Sextus in ''La Clemenza Di Tito.''
        In a New York Times review of Donizetti's ''Anna Bolena'' at New York City Opera in 1980, Donal Henahan called her singing of the romance ''both full-voiced and innocently ardent.''
        Ms. Lerner was recognized for her stage presence and her ability to act, on and off the operatic stage.
        She was born Emilia Lipczer in Poland in 1946 to Jewish parents who fled the Nazis and lived in the woods until Ms. Lerner was a year old, Mr. Lerner said. The family then moved to Paris and immigrated to the Bronx seven years later. Ms. Lerner attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan and graduated from Queens College with a bachelor's degree in music education.
        She met her husband, a flutist, during one of his performances at Carnegie Hall in 1967 and moved to Pittsburgh with him in 1969, soon after graduation.
        Ms. Lerner was the head of the voice department at Carnegie Mellon University until 2005, when she started teaching at home because of her illness. She was also a cantorial soloist for Rodef Shalom Temple in Pittsburgh for 25 years.
        Ms. Lerner performed with the Metropolitan Opera, the Teatro alla Scala, the Glyndebourne Festival Opera, the Théâtre du Chatelet in Paris, the Netherlands Opera, the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie and the Canadian Opera, the Seattle Opera, the Houston Grand Opera, the Dallas Opera, the Santa Fe Opera and the Washington Opera at Kennedy Center, among others.
        Besides her husband, Ms. Lerner is survived by her son, Daniel, of New York, and her sister, Lizette Corman of Oradell, N.J.
        Correction:  April 20, 2007, Friday  An obituary on Saturday about Mimi Lerner, an operatic mezzo-soprano and educator, misstated the year of her birth. It was 1945, not 1946. (As the obituary correctly noted, she was 61.)
      