
        Helen Robson Walton, whose husband, Sam Walton, founded Wal-Mart Stores and relied on her for advice, died on Thursday at her home in Bentonville, Ark. She was 87.
        Ms. Walton died of natural causes, said Mona Williams, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart.
        Sam Walton is said to have considered his wife one of his best business advisers and credited her with persuading him to establish a profit-sharing plan for the company's employees. She played a crucial role in Wal-Mart's early strategy of focusing on small towns after she refused to move to one with more than 10,000 people, her husband said in his autobiography.
        Like other Wal-Mart heirs, she amassed a considerable fortune. Last month, she was ranked by Forbes magazine as the 29th-richest person in the world, with a fortune of $16.4 billion.
        She devoted much of her time to philanthropy. In fact, when asked to provide biographical information for her induction into the Oklahoma Heritage Association's Hall of Fame, the company said in a statement, she described her work as ''volunteer to community, state and nation.''
        A native of Claremore, Okla., Helen Robson met her husband-to-be in April 1942. They were married on Valentine's Day the next year. In September 1945, they borrowed $25,000 from her father, a small-town banker, and opened their first store, a Ben Franklin five-and-dime, in Newport, Ark., a cotton town of 7,000 in the Mississippi delta region.
        Unable to renew the lease on their store in Newport, Mr. Walton opened the first Wal-Mart in Rogers in Northwest Arkansas in 1962, together with his brother James.
        Ms. Walton was active in the Presbyterian Church and was the first woman to be named chairwoman of the Presbyterian Church (USA) Foundation.
        Among her charitable endeavors, Ms. Walton helped establish and operate a program to provide scholarships for children of Wal-Mart employees. In the 1980s, the Waltons led the development of a program to bring students from Central America to study at three private Arkansas colleges.
        Ms. Walton presided over the Walton Family Foundation when it made a $300 million gift to the University of Arkansas in 2002, which followed an earlier $50 million donation to found the Sam M. Walton School of Business.
        A graduate of the University of Oklahoma with a degree in finance, Ms. Walton provided $500,000 in 1989 to endow a chair in marketing strategy at the university's college of business administration. Ms. Walton was also a longtime supporter of the University of the Ozarks in Clarksville, Ark., where she served as chairwoman of the board of trustees.
        Sam Walton died in 1992. Ms. Walton is survived by her brother, Frank Robson; three children, S. Robson Walton, Jim C. Walton and Alice L. Walton; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. Another son, John T. Walton, died two years ago in an airplane crash.
      