
        Emily W. Sunstein, an independent scholar known for writing biographies of an unconventional mother and her unconventional daughter -- Mary Wollstonecraft and Mary Shelley -- died on Saturday in Philadelphia. She was 82 and had lived in Philadelphia for many years.
        The cause was complications of autoimmune vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, her daughter Kay Hymowitz said.
        Ms. Sunstein's first biography, ''A Different Face: The Life of Mary Wollstonecraft,'' was published in 1975 by Harper & Row. It chronicled the life of the mother, the noted British author and feminist Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-97), who died a few days after the birth of her daughter, the future Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley.
        Her second biography, ''Mary Shelley: Romance and Reality'' (Little, Brown, 1989), was the story of the daughter (1797-1851) who wrote ''Frankenstein'' and was the wife of the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley.
        Reviewing the Mary Shelley biography in The New York Times Book Review, Carolyn Heilbrun wrote: ''Ms. Sunstein has corrected the erroneous assumptions that have misled so many critics, myself (when young) included.'' She added: ''Ms. Sunstein is to be praised for looking anew at so misunderstood a life.''
        In 1989 Ms. Sunstein's Mary Shelley biography was awarded the Modern Language Association Prize for Independent Scholars.
        Emily Weisberg was born on April 28, 1924, in Dallas, and was reared there. In 1944 she earned a bachelor's degree in art history from Vassar College.
        Before beginning her writing career, Ms. Sunstein was active in civic affairs. A charter member of Americans for Democratic Action, founded in 1947, she later became the first woman to serve as head of the Philadelphia chapter of the American Jewish Committee.
        Besides her daughter Kay, of Brooklyn, Ms. Sunstein is survived by her husband, Leon C. Sunstein Jr., whom she married in 1943; a son, Paul, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; another daughter, Lauren Sunstein, of Rome; and six grandchildren.
      