
        John Billings, an Australian physician who more than half a century ago developed a natural contraception method endorsed by the Roman Catholic Church, died Sunday in Melbourne. He was 89 and a lifelong Melbourne resident.
        The death was announced on the Web site of Woomb International (www.woomb.org), an organization Dr. Billings helped found. The organization, which is in Melbourne, said he died after a short illness.
        A neurologist by training, Dr. Billings began investigating natural contraception, that is, techniques not relying on devices or drugs that block conception, in 1953, at the request of the Catholic Marriage Guidance Bureau in Melbourne. Working with his wife, Dr. Evelyn Billings, a pediatrician, he created what is now known as the Billings ovulation method, or the Billings method. The method relies on a woman's ability to sense changes in the amount and texture of her cervical mucus, which help predict ovulation and fertility.
        The Billings method is used in more than 100 countries, said Sue Ek, the executive director of the Billings Ovulation Method Association U.S.A., based in St. Cloud, Minn. It is the only government-sanctioned form of natural birth control in China, where it is used by more than four million couples, she said. (The other two approved birth-control methods there are the pill and the intrauterine device, Ms. Ek said.)
        Advocates of the Billings method say it is more accurate than earlier natural contraceptive methods, chief among them the rhythm method, in predicting when a woman will be fertile. The rhythm method uses a woman's menstrual history and the calendar to predict statistically when her next ovulation will take place. But many women have irregular menstrual cycles, Ms. Ek said, making precise prediction difficult.
        Drawing partly on the work of Erik Odeblad, a physician at the University of Umea in Sweden, the Billings method is based on the finding that as a woman's ovulation nears, her estrogen level rises. With the increased estrogen comes increased cervical mucus, a condition that women can be trained to monitor.
        The Billings method can be used either to prevent conception or to bring it about, with couples abstaining from sex or engaging in it on the woman's most fertile days.
        In an interview with Australian radio quoted by The Associated Press yesterday, Mukesh Haikerwal, president of the Australian Medical Association, said the failure rate of the Billings method when used for contraception was 3 in 100, compared with 1 in 100 for condoms; 1 in 1,000 for the pill; and 1 in 10,000 for implanted devices.
        John Billings was born in Melbourne on March 5, 1918. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Melbourne, followed, in 1946, by a medical degree from the university and postgraduate training in London. During World War II, he served with the Australian Army Medical Corps in Papua New Guinea.
        Besides his wife, the former Evelyn Thomas, whom he married in 1943, Dr. Billings is survived by eight of their nine children, and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        He was awarded a papal knighthood in 1969.
      