
        Tom Moore, who as president of the ABC Television Network in the 1960s helped it narrow the ratings gap with NBC and CBS, and who later won five Emmys as head of his own production company, died Saturday near his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 88.
        The death was confirmed by his son, Thomas Jr.
        Mr. Moore was head of programming at ABC from 1958 to 1962 and network president from 1962 to 1969. The network was a division of the American Broadcasting Company.
        At the time he took over programming, ABC was ''not a competitive network, consistently falling behind its two competitors,'' a profile of Mr. Moore by the Archive of American Television says. The network presented programs only 12 to 14 hours a week and had no late-night, daytime or sports programming. The gap was largely filled by locally produced programs.
        Since 1943, when the Federal Communications Commission ordered the National Broadcasting Company to divest itself of what had been called its Blue Network -- creating ABC -- the cast-off network had run a distant third in both radio and later television. But during Mr. Moore's tenure, ABC Television began to aim much of its programming toward younger viewers, especially those 18 to 35, who are most sought after by advertisers.
        That idea succeeded, and the appeal to specific demographic groups has long since become the industry norm. And although ABC Television did not surpass the other two big networks in ratings until the 1975-76 season, it made a good start on the road to that goal under Mr. Moore.
        Among the popular shows that ABC broadcast while he was head of programming were: ''The Real McCoys,'' ''77 Sunset Strip,'' ''My Three Sons,'' ''The Flintstones,'' ''Ben Casey'' and ''The Untouchables.'' While he was network president, the network added, among other shows, ''McHale's Navy,'' ''The Fugitive, ''Peyton Place,'' ''The Addams Family'' and ''Batman.''
        ABC did not have a sports department when Mr. Moore took over programming. But in 1961, it hired Roone Arledge as vice president for sports. Soon after, Mr. Arledge began producing ''ABC's Wide World of Sports,'' a Saturday afternoon program that slowly grew to great popularity. With Mr. Moore's support, Mr. Arledge also produced ABC's successful coverage of the Olympic Games 10 times.
        Thomas Waldrop Moore was born on Sept. 17, 1918, in Meridian, Miss., the son of Thomas M. Moore, a cotton buyer, and Abita Stroble Moore, a schoolteacher. After graduating from the University of Missouri in 1940, Mr. Moore served for six years as a Navy pilot.
        Besides his son, who lives in Los Angeles, Mr. Moore is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Claire Stirrat; a daughter, Jean Edwards of St. Helena, Calif.; a sister, Geraldine Baier of Birmingham, Ala.; four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        In 1946, Mr. Moore was hired as a spokesman for the Forest Lawn Cemetery, the resting place in Los Angeles for many Hollywood celebrities. A year later, he went to work in commercial sales at a CBS radio station. ABC Television hired him as vice president for sales in 1956.
        After a shake-up in the television network's 's hierarchy, Mr. Moore left the network in 1968. In 1970, with financial backing from General Electric, he started Tomorrow Entertainment, a production company that primarily made movies for television.
        In 1978, 1980, 1981 and 1983, the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences awarded prime-time Emmys to Mr. Moore as executive producer of ''The Body Human,'' a medical series using cameras inside the body. Mr. Moore won another Emmy in 1979 for ''Lifeline,'' which profiled the work of pioneering doctors.
        Mr. Moore's company also won Emmys in 1973 for ''A War of Children,'' about two families during the sectarian strife in Northern Ireland, and in 1974 for ''The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman,'' the story of a 110-year-old woman who rose from slavery, played by Cicely Tyson.
      