
        Alvin L. Roth, who was one of the most talented bridge players of all time, winning 26 national championships with 11 different partners, died yesterday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 92.
        Mr. Roth died of natural causes, his family said.
        Born in the Bronx in 1914, Mr. Roth was an honor student in mathematics at Stuyvesant High School, and he graduated from City College. Afterward, he worked as a statistician for the government in Washington.
        He was in the Army in World War II, fighting a little and playing bridge a lot. A future bridge partner, Tobias Stone, helped secure a game with Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. Afterward, Mr. Roth and Mr. Stone were returned to the front.
        After the war, Mr. Roth moved back to New York City and was working full time in bridge. But he went to Miami Beach for a tournament and fell in love with the city. He called his wife, the former Fay Edelstein, whom he married in 1940, and told her to pack up and join him.
        Mr. Roth opened a bridge club in Miami and ran it for about five years. Then the couple moved to Washington to work with Charles Goren, founding the Charles Goren School of Bridge. After 10 years, Mr. Roth returned to New York and bought the Mayfair Club, a private card club, which he managed until retiring to Boca Raton in 1995.
        Mr. Roth's most famous partnership was with Mr. Stone. They bid using their Roth-Stone system, many aspects of which have been adopted by present-day tournament players, like five-card majors, a one-no-trump response to a one-heart or one-spade opening that is forcing for one round, and negative doubles. An innovative theoretician, Mr. Roth also conceived the Unusual No-Trump.
        Mr. Roth played in three Bermuda Bowl world team championships, in 1955, 1958 and 1967, each time winning a silver medal. He was also second in the 1968 World Team Olympiad.
        During the 1955 Bermuda Bowl, Mr. Roth was declaring a two-spade contract and felt he had played the deal before -- but as a defender. He called over the chief tournament director, Al Sobel, who did not believe Mr. Roth because the cards had been dealt at the table. Mr. Sobel made Mr. Roth call out all of the cards in each hand -- including the spot-cards -- before he threw out the board. No one ever discovered how the duplicate deal happened.
        Mr. Roth wrote ''Al Roth on Bridge: The Roth-Stone System'' (1953) and ''Picture Bidding'' (1991), and was co-author of ''Bridge Is a Partnership Game'' (1958), ''Modern Bridge Bidding Complete'' (1968) and ''Bridge for Beginners'' (1970).
        Mr. Roth was a grand life master of the American Contract Bridge League with 12,604.36 master points and a world life master of the World Bridge Federation. He was inducted into the American Contract Bridge League Hall of Fame in 1995.
        He and his wife, who died in 1995, were divorced in 1963. They had a son, Mel, who survives them. .
        Mr. Roth is also survived by his second wife, Jean Farrell, whom he married in 1980; three grandsons; and two great-grandsons.
        Mr. Roth was on magazine bidding panels, most notably for The Bridge World for more than 50 years, where he was famous for saying what he would call and explaining his choice with, ''What's the problem?''
        But one time in a tournament Mr. Roth did misbid a hand. He was teased unmercifully by fellow experts and finally lashed back with, ''Well, Babe Ruth struck out, too.'' Afterward, he was known as Babe Roth.
      