
        Eben Pyne, a patrician banker who helped Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller mold New York's suburban transit system from a tangle of decrepit railroad lines, died Wednesday night at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Pyne also had a home in Northeast Harbor, Me., and for much of his life had homes in Manhattan and in Old Westbury on Long Island. His death came after a brief illness, his wife, Nancy Gray Pyne, said.
        Mr. Pyne was a senior officer of a New York bank that grew into Citicorp when Governor Rockefeller recruited him in 1964 to help rescue the failing Long Island Rail Road. That railroad, the largest commuter line in the country, carrying 260,000 passengers a day on several branches, had been in a financial tailspin for years.
        By the early 1960s, its principal owner, the equally moribund Pennsylvania Railroad, was looking to unload it.
        The governor appointed Mr. Pyne to a panel of New York lawyers, bankers and business executives whose mission was to come up with a plan to salvage the line. Mr. Pyne was a natural choice for the task: he was a well-connected investment banker who knew about public financing, as well as a regular Long Island Rail Road rider.
        Under the chairmanship of William J. Ronan, the secretary to the governor, the panel came up with a $200 million modernization program, which formed the basis of a proposal that the governor took to the State Legislature in 1965, winning its approval.
        The state bought out the railroad whole -- rolling stock, real estate, bridges and a tunnel -- for a bargain $65 million. It also created a Metropolitan Commuter Transportation Authority (''Commuter'' was later dropped from the name), of which Dr. Ronan was chairman.
        Mr. Pyne was appointed to a seat on the transportation agency's original five-member governing board. In that post, which he held until 1975, he helped steer the agency's acquisition of other ailing suburban lines that had been merged into Conrail and later formed Metro-North.
        He was also a commissioner of the New York City Transit Authority, the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, the Manhattan and Bronx Surface Transit Authority, the Staten Island Rapid Transit Operating Authority and Stewart International Airport, near Newburgh, N.Y.
        Born in Manhattan, Eben Wright Pyne was a descendant of John Howland, a Mayflower settler. A branch of Mr. Pyne's family put down roots in New York with a royal crown land grant in what is now the Pelham area of Westchester County.
        Mr. Pyne played football at Groton and at Princeton, from which he graduated in 1939. That year he became a clerk at Farmers Trust Company, an affiliate of what was then National City Bank of New York. At the time, he was part of the polo set on Long Island's North Shore, as was his first wife, Hilda Holloway, whom he married in 1941. She died in 1986. In later years he presided at horse shows at the Piping Rock Club in Locust Valley.
        In 1940, Mr. Pyne joined the field artillery of the New York National Guard as a second lieutenant and fought in North Africa and Italy in World War II. When enemy fire forced down his small artillery-observation plane over the Po Valley, he was briefly taken prisoner, but jumped off his German captors' truck and escaped to Allied lines with the help of Italian partisans. He returned home in 1946 as a major, with the Bronze Star and five battle stars.
        Rejoining the bank, he quickly rose through its executive ranks. He was appointed president of City Bank Farmers Trust, which became First National City Trust. It was incorporated into First National City Bank -- later named Citibank -- in 1960, when Mr. Pyne was named senior vice president in charge of the trust and investment division. He retired in 1982.
        That year, President Ronald Reagan named Mr. Pyne to his Private Sector Survey on Cost Control, better known as the Grace Commission after its director, the industrialist J. Peter Grace. The group was assigned to identify and suggest remedies for waste and abuse in the federal government.
        Mr. Pyne and his wife, the former Nancy Gray, were married in 1995. She is the widow of Gordon Gray, a former secretary of the Army and president of the University of North Carolina. Survivors also include two daughters from Mr. Pyne's first marriage, Lillian Pyne Corbin of Millbrook, N.Y., and Alison Pyne McNaughton of Corning, N.Y.; a sister, Alison Pyne Ewing, of Basking Ridge, N.J.; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Pyne's family had for several generations been major supporters of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. In addition to the hospital, Mr. Pyne actively supported the Wildlife Conservation Society, which includes the Bronx Zoo; the Brooklyn Museum of Art; the Juilliard School of Music; the Grace Institute; Winthrop-University Hospital, in Mineola; the New York Hall of Science, of which he was a founding trustee; and Pilgrims of America.
      