
        Thomas Rogers, a novelist whose wryly comic books chart the rocky landscape where youthful alienation -- and youthful ardor -- meet straight-backed WASP propriety, died on Sunday in State College, Pa. He was 79 and had lived in State College for many years.
        Mr. Rogers died after a one-car accident in which he drove off the road, said Lt. Dana Leonard of the State College Police Department, who added that Mr. Rogers appeared to have had a heart attack.
        At his death, Mr. Rogers was emeritus professor of English at Pennsylvania State University, where he had taught creative writing for three decades before his retirement in 1992.
        Mr. Rogers's four novels explore the tension between fate and personal agency. His first, ''The Pursuit of Happiness'' (New American Library, 1968), chronicles the fortunes of a wealthy, disaffected young man who, for reasons having more to do with self-interest than with ideology, expatriates himself to Mexico.
        A finalist for the National Book Award, ''The Pursuit of Happiness'' was made into a 1971 Hollywood film, directed by Robert Mulligan and starring Michael Sarrazin and Barbara Hershey.
        Thomas Hunton Rogers Jr. was born in Chicago on June 23, 1927. He earned a bachelor's degree in English literature and history from Harvard in 1950; a master's in English literature from the University of Iowa in 1953; and a Ph.D. in the field from Iowa in 1961. From 1955 to 1961, he taught literature at the University of Chicago.
        In 1956, Mr. Rogers married Jacqueline Ragner; she died in 2005. He is survived by two daughters, Susan Fox Rogers of Tivoli, N.Y., who teaches creative writing at Bard College, and Rebecca Rogers of Strasbourg, France, who teaches French history at the Sorbonne; a sister, Mary Louise Munts of Kendall, Pa.; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Rogers's second novel, ''The Confessions of a Child of the Century by Samuel Heather'' (Simon & Schuster, 1972), is a dark picaresque about a privileged young man who hurtles from Harvard to a North Korean prison camp to a job with the C.I.A. His third, ''At the Shores'' (Simon & Schuster, 1980), introduces Jerry Engels, a Midwestern adolescent who in his unmitigated state of desire recalls a Protestant Portnoy.
        Mr. Rogers brought his hero back in his fourth novel, ''Jerry Engels'' (Handsel Books), published in 2005. Jerry, now in college, is somewhat older, probably no wiser and most assuredly no less ardent.
        Reviewing ''Jerry Engels'' in The New York Times Book Review, James Parker wrote: ''The light music of Rogers's style, the wry modesty of his language and the pouncing accuracy of his observations are easily enjoyed. 'Her dress came slithering off like a tarpaulin from some public monument.' Any book containing that line is worth reading.''
      