
        Nina Wang, reported to be the richest woman in Asia, who won control of her husband's Hong Kong real-estate empire after a tumultuous legal melodrama that featured a vanishing tycoon, a presumed death, charges of forgery and adultery, opium and impossibly short skirts, died on Tuesday in Hong Kong. She was 69 and had lived in Hong Kong for many years.
        Mrs. Wang's spokesman, Ringo Wong, announced the death, giving no cause, The Associated Press reported yesterday. The Hong Kong news media had previously reported that Mrs. Wang was suffering from ovarian cancer, The Associated Press said.
        This year, Forbes magazine ranked Mrs. Wang as tied for 204th place in its annual list of the world's richest people, with a net worth of $4.2 billion.
        An elfin woman nicknamed Little Sweetie by the Asian press -- the name derived from a Japanese comic-book character she was said to resemble -- Mrs. Wang was long known in Hong Kong for the outré personal style she cultivated well into her 60s.
        When not attired in traditional Chinese costume, she dressed like a postmodern bobby-soxer, complete with actual bobby socks, towering patent-leather platform shoes, T-shirts adorned with silver lamé hearts, ultra-micro-miniskirts of red vinyl and multiple pigtails (usually three of them) that trailed behind her like the tails of a wind-borne kite. She sometimes dyed the pigtails -- blue, on one occasion -- to match whatever outfit she happened to have on.
        Despite her enormous wealth, Mrs. Wang could be breathtakingly frugal: she was reported to buy her clothes at outlet stores, seek reduced-price theater tickets, consume quantities of McDonald's Filet-O-Fish and rarely leave a dinner party without a doggie bag. She was also said, however, to travel with a retinue of 50 bodyguards, as well as a German shepherd and, at times, a monkey.
        Nina Kung Yu-sum was born in Shanghai in 1937. Teddy Wang was a childhood sweetheart, and at 18 she married him, joining him in Hong Kong. There, Mr. Wang's family had established its real-estate concern, the Chinachem Group, which would become one of Hong Kong's largest privately held companies.
        Mrs. Wang came to international attention in 1990, when her husband was kidnapped for the second time. Mr. Wang was first kidnapped in 1983; he was released unharmed eight days later after Mrs. Wang paid a ransom of $11 million. (On his release, Mr. Wang, known as a consummate businessman, ''berated his wife for paying so much so soon,'' Asiaweek reported.)
        After Mr. Wang was kidnapped again in 1990, what followed read like the plot of a James Clavell novel. Although Mrs. Wang was reported to have paid slightly more than half of the kidnappers' $60 million ransom demand, Mr. Wang was never seen again.
        Mrs. Wang, who in her husband's absence had power of attorney, took control of Chinachem. She expanded the company's interests into biotechnology, cinemas, satellite TV and video-game arcades, while steadfastly maintaining that her husband was still alive. Meanwhile, Mr. Wang's father, Wang Din-shin, was lobbying to have his son declared legally dead so his estate could be settled.
        Over the next several years, 21 people were jailed in Hong Kong and Taiwan for the 1990 kidnapping. In 1998, one of them said publicly that shortly after the abduction, Mr. Wang was thrown into the South China Sea, where he presumably drowned. Though Mr. Wang's body was never found, a Hong Kong court declared him dead in 1999.
        The court's ruling opened the way for Mr. Wang's will to be read. The trouble was, there were two wills. In one, written in 1968, Mr. Wang left everything to his father. (The elder Mr. Wang maintained his son did this to punish his wife after learning that she had had affair with a warehouse manager.) In the other, which Mrs. Wang said her husband wrote in 1990, shortly before his abduction, he left everything to her.
        The ensuing probate battle lasted 171 days and riveted Asia. The courtroom drama included accusations of Mrs. Wang's marital infidelity as well as allegations that the elder Mr. Wang frequented opium dens and kept a concubine. In November 2002, Hong Kong's High Court ruled that the 1990 will was a forgery, probably by Mrs. Wang, and awarded all of Teddy Wang's estate to his father.
        At the start of 2005, criminal charges of forgery were brought against Mrs. Wang. In September of that year, with Mrs. Wang free on $7 million bail, Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal overturned the High Court's ruling, leaving her free to inherit her husband's estate. The forgery charges against her were later dropped.
        Mr. and Mrs. Wang had no children, and information on other survivors could not be confirmed. It seems likely, however, that any surviving family members will make themselves known without delay.
      