
        Frank H. Westheimer, a Harvard chemist whose work in understanding how the body metabolizes alcohol became a model for similar studies in the growing field of biochemistry, died last Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95. Dr. Westheimer's death was confirmed by his family.
        In the early 1950s, while teaching at the University of Chicago, Dr. Westheimer applied the principles of physical-organic chemistry to investigate an enzyme used by the body in metabolizing alcohol. With another researcher, Birgit Vennesland, he succeeded in showing how the enzyme worked to remove hydrogen from the alcohol, a critical event in the process of breaking it down.
        The result was a closer understanding of the enzyme, known as alcohol dehydrogenate .
        Ronald C. D. Breslow, a professor of chemistry and biology at Columbia, said the study ''showed us that we had to think much more carefully about how enzymes react within the body'' and continues to be widely cited.
        Earlier, Dr. Westheimer collaborated with Joseph E. Mayer in studying the the structure of organic molecules, the building blocks of living things, which contain carbon, among other elements. In order to better understand how these molecules are assembled from atoms, they used physical forces to form shapes, in this case rings of carbon, and calculated the energy contained within them.
        Their findings were subsequently used as a model for similar studies of other elements and have been regarded as a seminal contribution to the field of molecular mechanics, said Daniel E. Koshland, a professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California, Berkeley.
        In 1965, Dr. Westheimer led a penetrating survey of chemistry for the National Academy of Sciences, in which he and others advocated for greater emphasis on biochemistry, as a promising and previously underexploited field for medical and pharmaceutical research. In doing so, he ''helped chemistry departments nationwide make a case for becoming more intellectually diverse,'' Dr. Koshland said. The survey became known as the Westheimer Report.
        Frank Henry Westheimer was born in Baltimore. He graduated from Dartmouth and earned his doctorate in chemistry from Harvard in 1935.
        Dr. Westheimer did postdoctoral research at Columbia before joining the University of Chicago in 1936. He moved to Harvard in 1953, and was named a professor of chemistry there in 1954. He retired in 1983.
        From 1985 to 1990, he served as secretary of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Dr. Westheimer was also a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the Royal Society. He was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1986.
        Dr. Westheimer's wife of 64 years, Jeanne, died in 2001.
        He is survived by two daughters, Ellen Westheimer of Carlisle, Mass., and Dr. Ruth S. Westheimer of Worcester, Mass.
        Correction:  April 28, 2007, Saturday  An obituary last Saturday about Frank H. Westheimer, a chemist who did research on enzymes, misspelled part of the name of an enzyme he studied. It is alcohol dehydrogenase, not dehydrogenate.
      