
        Colin Graham, the artistic director of the Opera Theater of St. Louis, died on Friday in Creve Coeur, Mo., near St. Louis. He was 75.
        The cause was respiratory and cardiac arrest, the Opera Theater announced.
        Mr. Graham staged 48 new productions at St. Louis, including Britten's ''Gloriana,'' ''Billy Budd'' and ''Paul Bunyan''; Purcell's ''King Arthur''; and the United States premiere productions of Rossini's ''Viaggio a Reims'' and Bernstein's final version of ''Candide.''
        His staging of David Carlson's ''Anna Karenina,'' for which he wrote the libretto, has its world premiere on April 28 at Florida Grand Opera in Miami, then opens in St. Louis in June -- his 57th premiere production. Other major premieres he directed include Minoru Miki's ''Tale of Genji'' for St. Louis, John Corigliano's ''Ghosts of Versailles'' for the Metropolitan Opera, Bright Sheng's ''Madame Mao'' for Santa Fe Opera and André Previn's ''Streetcar Named Desire'' for San Francisco Opera.
        A prolific librettist, Mr. Graham often wrote the librettos for the operas he directed, including works by Britten, Mr. Previn, Stephen Paulus, Richard Rodney Bennett, Mr. Sheng and Mr. Miki.
        Mr. Graham was born in London and attended the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in 1951. He initially worked as an actor and hoped to sing opera before joining the Royal Opera House as an assistant stage manager. In 1953 he moved to the English Opera Group, the beginning of a long association with Britten and his music.
        He directed all but one of the composer's stage works, including the world premieres of ''Noye's Fludde,'' ''Curlew River,'' ''The Burning Fiery Furnace'' and ''The Prodigal Son.'' He staged ''Owen Wingrave'' for BBC Television and made his United States debut with the same work at the Santa Fe Opera in 1974. His production of ''Death in Venice'' for the Metropolitan Opera and Royal Opera was nominated for an Olivier Award in London. Writing in The New York Times in 1994, Bernard Holland described it as an ''aphoristic, elegant staging,'' one that was ''swift and relentless.''
        Japanese theater was another interest, and Mr. Graham commissioned and directed Mr. Miki's kabuki opera ''An Actor's Revenge,'' as well as his ''Joruri'' and ''Tale of Genji.''
        His first position at the Opera Theater of St. Louis was as director of productions in 1978; he became its artistic director in 1985. He also held prominent positions at the Aldeburgh Festival and Sadler's Wells Opera, now the English National Opera.
        A United States citizen, Mr. Graham was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 2001 for service to British and American opera. The citation particularly mentioned his 1972 production of Prokofiev's ''War and Peace'' at Sadler's Wells.
        He was also awarded honorary doctor of arts degrees from Webster University and the University of Missouri. An enthusiastic teacher and mentor, he was writing a training handbook for opera singers before he died. Other interests included competitive bodybuilding, which he took up later in life, and motorcycles.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      