
        Michael Smuin, a choreographer who worked for major ballet companies and led his own, marshaling eclectic dance forms, robust athleticism and striking theatricality to create works that appealed to broad audiences, died yesterday in San Francisco. He was 68.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, David Perry, spokesman for Smuin Ballet, told The Associated Press. Mr. Smuin had had a serious heart attack in 1992.
        A dance prodigy, he first performed with the San Francisco Ballet. He then danced and choreographed for American Ballet Theater in New York before returning to the San Francisco Ballet as co-artistic director. In 1994 he founded Smuin Ballet, which aimed to be lean and innovative, carrying only 12 to 15 dancers and often presenting new works.
        A master of the fine points of classical ballet, Mr. Smuin's ability to connect with audiences set him apart. His homage to victims of the 9/11 attacks, ''Stabat Mater,'' took form as he was watching the televised funeral of a New York fireman. His use of elements from today's culture, like break-dancing, divided critics but often attracted those unfamiliar with ballet.
        ''A veteran Broadway and ballet choreographer with a strong sense of craft, he has no qualms about entertaining audiences,'' Jennifer Dunning wrote in The New York Times last year in her review of ''Bluegrass/Slyde,'' the Smuin Ballet's valentine to bluegrass music.
        In a busy career he found time to choreograph Broadway shows and movies, not to mention circuses and commercials. He made dances for the Washington Ballet, Pacific Northwest Ballet and Dance Theater of Harlem, among others. He won a Tony Award in 1988 for his choreography for ''Anything Goes'' and an Emmy in 1984 for choreographing an episode of ''Great Performances: Dance in America.''
        Michael Smuin, the son of a Safeway butcher, was born in Missoula, Mont., on Oct. 13, 1938. As a child, he took tap and ballet lessons, but refused to wear tights. He won a letter in boxing as a high school freshman.
        At 14 he qualified to study dance at the University of Utah, where he was spotted by the director of the San Francisco Ballet. He began dancing with that company in 1953, at 15, and moved rapidly up the ranks to become a principal. He married a dancer in the company, Paula Tracy, in 1961. They divorced in 2000. He is survived by their son, Shane, and his brothers Douglas and Stephen.
        In 1965, Mr. Smuin and his wife joined American Ballet Theater, for which he choreographed ''Pulcinella Variations'' in 1968. He returned to San Francisco Ballet in 1973, spending 12 years there as choreographer and co-director of the company. He left in 1985 after a dispute with higher management.
        A decade later, Smuin Ballet began producing dances. ''The Christmas Ballet,'' with a shark, tap-dancing Christmas trees and music by Eartha Kitt, typified the over-the-top originality of some. ''The ballet needed a transfusion,'' Mr. Smuin said in an interview with The San Francisco Chronicle Magazine in 2001. ''I mean, how long can you watch women in white tutus and tiaras?''
      