
        Polly Hill, a horticulturist who stretched the boundaries of plant hardiness by gathering seeds from around the world, especially those of trees and shrubs that thrive in warmer climates, and studying which would sprout and then endure New England winters, died on Wednesday at her home in Hockessin, Del. She was 100.
        The death was announced by Barbara Conroy, administrator of the Polly Hill Arboretum, a 70-acre former sheep farm on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. It was there, in 1958, that Mrs. Hill first began planting seeds -- including those of camellias, azaleas and something called the monkey puzzle tree.
        More than 1,700 plant varieties now grow on the arboretum, in West Tisbury, Mass. It has been open, free of charge, for leisurely strolls and more scientific pursuits for more than 40 years.
        Visitors might ponder, for example, the sprawling branches of Araucaria araucana, the stout monkey puzzle tree, which is native to Chile and Argentina. That is, if they are there at the right time. The tree, which Mrs. Hill first planted in 1968, thrives for several years, is withered for several years, then revives again.
        ''A lot of people wouldn't put something in their garden that isn't reliably hardy,'' said Michael Van Valkenburgh, the Charles Eliot professor of landscape architecture at Harvard. ''Polly's quest was to ask: What is on the margins, what could live here?
        ''So in her gardens,'' Professor Valkenburgh continued, ''you see a fantastic camellia collection -- reds, pinks, other vibrant colors.'' Camellias, he pointed out, come from Asia and can mostly be found in gardens far to the south. Mrs. Hill's arboretum is also rich in hybrid azaleas, rare Japanese ground covers and broad-leaf Southern magnolias.
        Mrs. Hill was known in the field for her detailed record-keeping, tracing the viability of every seed variety she planted. She maintained a complete ''dead file,'' as she called it, as well as daily, weekly and monthly descriptions of those specimens that survived. One of her rare plants, a rhododendron grown from a wild seed, was nurtured for 29 years before it bloomed.
        Mary Louise Butcher (she was known as Polly since childhood) was born on Jan. 30, 1907, in Ardmore, Pa., a daughter of Margaret Keen and Howard Butcher Jr. Her husband of 65 years, Julian Hill, died in 1996. She is survived by a daughter, Louisa Coughlin of Philadelphia; two sons, Joseph, of Radnor, Pa., and Jefferson, of Washington; a brother, Keen Butcher of Philadelphia; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        After graduating in 1928 from Vassar College, where she majored in music, Mrs. Hill went to Japan to teach English at a women's college. While there, she studied traditional Japanese flower arrangement -- a skill she later lectured about, while wearing a kimono, after returning to the United States. In the late 1940s she studied botany and horticulture at the University of Maryland.
        Mrs. Hill's parents had bought the Massachusetts farm in 1926 and used it as a summer home. After the Hills took over the property in 1956, they built a small nursery outside the main house, and Mrs. Hill began acquiring seeds from around the world, in particular from a collector in Japan.
        Seedlings that survived the winter were planted beside the farm's stone walls and 18th-century wooden buildings, among its meadows and in the shade of native oak trees.
        ''What Polly did wasn't entirely unique in the field, but she was distinguished for how avidly she studied,'' Professor Valkenburgh said. ''And all this stuff that she's known for, she did in her second 50 years.''
      