
        E. Dorrit Hoffleit, an astronomer who studied the features of stars visible to the naked eye, edited a standard reference on them and was probably the oldest working scientist in her field, died on April 9 at her home in New Haven. She was 100.
        Dr. Hoffleit's death was confirmed by a spokesman for Yale University, where she worked from the mid-1950s until earlier this year.
        A tireless observer, she studied bright stars, or the roughly 11,700 stars that can be viewed without the aid of a telescope, and compiled several editions of ''The Bright Star Catalogue.'' The book, which is published by Yale, and a supplement list the positions of the stars and describe their color, brightness, motion and velocity, with extensive notes about past names of stars and how they were discovered.
        She edited the third edition of the catalog in 1964, contributed to the fourth and was helping to prepare a fifth edition, which will be the first version to appear in electronic form. A colleague, William F. van Altena, an emeritus professor of astronomy at Yale, called the work ''the ragged-eared blue book that's always open on an observer's desk.''
        Dr. Hoffleit (pronounced HOFF-light) was interested in stars whose brightness changes over time, often for days or weeks, and are used by scientists to measure distances between galaxies. She observed and classified these stars, called variable stars, and tried to determine the cycles of their brightness.
        Much of her work on variable stars was conducted at the Maria Mitchell Observatory on Nantucket, where she was director from 1957 to 1978. The observatory, named for a pioneering astronomer who taught at Vassar College in the 19th century, is a private science center founded partly to encourage women to consider careers in astronomy, a mission that Dr. Hoffleit accepted with passion. In the 1960s and '70s, she divided her time between New Haven and Nantucket, doing research and supervising young scientists.
        Ellen Dorrit Hoffleit was born in Florence, Ala., on March 12, 1907. She studied mathematics at Radcliffe College before receiving a doctorate in astronomy there in 1938.
        Dr. Hoffleit began her career as a research assistant at the Harvard College Observatory in 1929. She was named an astronomer at Harvard in 1948 and remained there until moving to Yale in 1956.
        At Yale, she was a senior research astronomer before officially retiring in 1975, but continued to expand the star catalog.
        Dr. Hoffleit, who never married, is survived by a niece, Margaret Doleman, of Albany, Calif.
        The International Astronomical Union named an asteroid after her in 1987.
      