
        Egon Bondy, a poet and philosopher whose idiosyncratic cocktail of whimsically demented verse and profoundly subversive metaphysics lubricated the underground movement that helped topple Communism in Czechoslovakia, died on Monday in Bratislava, Slovakia. He was 77.
        The Czech News Agency, which reported his death, did not give a cause.
        Mr. Bondy wrote some 60 books, most printed secretly and few published in the West. But his greatest fame came when the Czech underground band the Plastic People of the Universe used his morbidly funny poems as song lyrics. One concerned constipation. Another listed all the drugs that Mr. Bondy, a hypochondriac, ingested.
        The group, which was hounded by the government for endangering the morality of the young, secretly recorded these lyrics on its first album in 1973 and 1974. Its title, in English, was ''Egon Bondy's Happy Hearts Club Banned.''
        In 1976 the police raided a Plastic People concert and arrested the band on charges of ''organized disturbance of the peace.'' The raid angered Czech dissidents, including the future president Vaclav Havel; they issued a manifesto, Charter 77. It kick-started the chain of events that led, 12 years later, to the Velvet Revolution and to Mr. Havel's assuming leadership of the country.
        In an interview last year with The Independent, a London newspaper, Mr. Havel, now the former president, hailed the band's ''special mystical, magical flavor, a very Prague flavor.'' He called Mr. Bondy ''a remarkable eccentric.''
        He continued: ''He's been part of our scene for 60 years. He was a Maoist, a Trotskyist, an emigrant, a police informer -- a phenomenon unto himself.''
        With his opposition to Communism despite his commitment to what he considered pure Marxism, his philosophical sophistication and his cultivated crassness, his anti-Americanism and his suspicions about his own government's motives, Mr. Bondy, who also embraced Buddhism, defied easy description. But few discussions of the ferment in Czechoslovakia before Communism's fall fail to include him.
        Pavla Jonssonova, a Czech writer who was a high school student in the late 1970s, said in an interview with Czech Radio in 2003 that her generation venerated Mr. Bondy. ''As a revolutionary philosopher and poet, he combined everything that we expected of a hero and a literary hero at that,'' she said.
        She said his short story ''Berta'' showed his grasp of things Czech: ''The entire history of our nation for the past 90 years,'' she said, ''has been one of licking wounds and surviving in the shadows of the gallows.''
        Mr. Bondy was born Zbynek Fiser (he later adopted Egon Bondy as a pen name) on Jan. 20, 1930, in Prague. In the late 1940s he was active in a Surrealist group, and in the late '50s studied philosophy and psychology at Charles University in Prague.
        Beginning in the 1960s, he published prose and poetry as samizdat literature, works covertly published and disseminated. He printed a 14-volume samizdat history of world philosophy. Much of his other work attacked the Soviet-backed regime as stupid and horrible, but always from a Marxist perspective.
        ''Czechoslovakia was governed in a Stalinist style that was not Marxism,'' he said in an interview with Monthly Review, a Socialist magazine, in October 1991.
        Samizdat, as well as secretly held Plastic People concerts, were part of a fiercely percolating artistic movement. Mr. Bondy became a close friend of the noted Czech writer Bohumil Hrabal, who had a character named Bondy in the novel ''The Tender Barbarian'' (1990).
        The fall of Communism hardly subdued Mr. Bondy's political voice. He accused the new regime of being a ''banana republic'' for Western capitalists, and the United States of making a vaccine to kill everyone but white people. He criticized the new Disneyland for featuring a fake castle in the land of real ones.
        In 1993 Mr. Bondy moved to Slovakia to protest the division of Czechoslovakia into that country and the Czech Republic. He said the motivation of the split was to benefit the new capitalists of Prague at the expense of poorer Slovakians.
        Past articles about Mr. Bondy say he had a wife named Julia, but articles and dispatches about his death contain no information about survivors. Once, when a friend asked him to be godfather to his child, he said he would gladly be Marxfather.
      