
        Eddie Robinson, who in 55 seasons as the football coach at Grambling State University won a record number of games, mentored scores of future professional players and helped bring racial awareness to a segregated Southern society, died late Tuesday night in Ruston, La. He was 88 and lived in Grambling, La.
        The cause of death was related to Alzheimer's disease, Dr. Ruby Higgins, a close family friend, said. Robinson had been in declining health since learning he had Alzheimer's disease in 2004.
        In becoming the first football coach in National Collegiate Athletic Association history to win 400 games, Robinson helped build Grambling from a small all-black college to an important predominantly black university with 5,000 students. He made Grambling famous while coaching teams to a 408-165-15 record. (In 2003, his victory total was surpassed by John Gagliardi of St. John's University, a Division III institution in Collegeville, Minn. Robinson's victory total is second only to Gagliardi's 443.)
        More than 200 of Robinson's players went on to play in the National Football League. He was at Grambling from 1941 to 1997, although the university had no football teams in 1943 and '44 because of World War II.
        Grambling's success slipped in Robinson's final coaching years, and some university officials and alumni wanted him replaced. He retired after the 1997 season, not because of his team's performance, he said, but because it was time.
        His devotion to his job was legendary. During a brief hospitalization for fatigue in October 1997, Robinson had a videocassette recorder and game tapes brought to his hospital bed so he could prepare for the next game.
        ''I can't stay away from football,'' he said.
        After Robinson's 324th victory, which broke Paul (Bear) Bryant's record, Robinson apologized to his players for his frequent absences in the preceding weeks. The news media demands were endless because of his story involving the South, education, integration, opportunity and football for young African-Americans.
        The record came on a Saturday night in Dallas, Oct. 5, 1985, when the 36,652 spectators in the Cotton Bowl saw Grambling defeat Prairie View, 27-7.
        ''I can coach with anyone,'' Robinson once said, but there was more to him than football. Doug Williams, one of his former quarterbacks and later a Super Bowl most valuable player, told why.
        ''Coach Rob is a great motivator,'' Williams once said. ''He could build you up and make you believe you could do anything. He never told us life was unfair. He always told us this was America and we could be anything we wanted to be.''
        Eddie Gay Robinson was born Feb. 13, 1919, in Jackson, La., the only child of a sometime sharecropper and a domestic servant. He played quarterback at Leland College in Baker, La., where he earned a bachelor's degree and then worked in a feed mill for 25 cents an hour.
        His sister knew the wife of Dr. Ralph Waldo Emerson Jones, the president of Grambling, a state college known at the time as the Louisiana Negro Normal and Industrial Institute. Dr. Jones, who was also Grambling's longtime baseball coach, hired the quiet, serious Robinson, then a newlywed. In Robinson's second season, he produced an undefeated football team.
        The college was renamed Grambling in 1946, the year after a huge, swift halfback named Paul Younger, who was known as Tank, appeared on the campus. The Tigers won 35 of 46 games in Younger's four seasons. Younger became Robinson's first black college all-American, and the Los Angeles Rams made him the first N.F.L. player from a predominantly black college.
        Younger was the first of four Robinson players to be named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. The others were Willie Brown, Buck Buchanan and Willie Davis.
        Williams succeeded Robinson as Grambling's coach. He held the job from the 1998 through the 2003 season and is now a personnel executive with the N.F.L.'s Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
        The fame of such Grambling alumni, and others in the N.F.L. during the 1960s, such as James Harris, Ernie Ladd, Roosevelt Taylor and Willie Williams, brought enormous attention to Grambling as a cradle of pro players. Dr. Jones and Robinson took advantage of the publicity, and soon Grambling was playing other predominantly black college teams in major cities before big crowds in places like Yankee Stadium. An added attraction was the fast-stepping Tiger Marching Band, which appeared at halftime.
        After Grambling played at Tulane Stadium, also known as the Sugar Bowl, in New Orleans, Robinson said, ''I remember when blacks couldn't even sit in the Sugar Bowl.''
        Collie Nicholson, a former Grambling sports information director, once said, ''We promoted Grambling like a circus.'' The plan succeeded and by 1974 football was making $400,000 a year for the college. In 1983, Grambling opened the $7.5 million, 23,000-seat Eddie Robinson Stadium.
        Although Grambling belonged to the Southwestern Athletic Conference, whose members were all predominantly black colleges, it could occasionally schedule a major intersectional opponent like Oregon State or Southern Methodist because it was such a gate attraction.
        The 1960s and '70s brought racial integration to the football programs of large state universities in the South. They included the University of Alabama, where Bryant was coach. African-American high school players from the Deep South, once attracted strongly to Grambling, were recruited everywhere.
        Grambling and old rivals like Southern University and Florida A&M survived, but they fell from the national picture and played increasingly among themselves at the lower Division I-AA level.
        Robinson is survived by his wife, Doris; a son, Eddie Jr. of Grambling; a daughter, Lillian Rose Watkins of Arcadia, La.; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        In 1985, after an interview with Robinson at Grambling, William C. Rhoden wrote in The New York Times: ''Some have said his victories mean less than Bryant's because he achieved them against a lower grade of competition. Others have said that they mean more because he had to work harder and under more difficult conditions. Robinson simply feels that he's done what he had to do.''
        Robinson concluded that interview by saying: ''When I first started coaching, my state dictated to me where I had to go, when I played and who I played. I hold no grudges and I don't have a chip on my shoulder. You can't unring a bell. I played as long as I could play, whenever I could play and as hard as I could play. How else can you judge me, except for what I accomplish?''
      