
        Edgar B. Young, the behind-the-scenes administrator who smoothed the way for the construction of Lincoln Center in the 1960s by juggling the demands of government agencies, donors, architects and artistic organizations, died on April 6 at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 98.
        The death was announced by his son John.
        Mr. Young was the chief project adviser to John D. Rockefeller 3rd, the first president of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the nonprofit corporation that built what is now a complex of 11 buildings on 16.3 acres between West 62nd and 66th Streets and Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues in Manhattan.
        As acting president of the corporation in 1961, its executive vice president from 1962 to 1965 and chairman of the building committee from 1961 to 1971, Mr. Young oversaw the construction of eight of Lincoln Center's buildings: Philharmonic Hall (now Avery Fisher Hall), the New York State Theater, the Vivian Beaumont Theater, the Metropolitan Opera House, Alice Tully Hall, the Juilliard School, the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts and the Guggenheim Band Shell in Damrosch Park.
        It was a deft feat. Mr. Young had to deal with the controversial acquisition of more than 180 buildings in what had been a rather rundown section of the West Side. He gathered financial support from city, state and federal agencies, as well as from wealthy and sometimes demanding private donors. He also dealt with architects concerned more about realizing their designs than about budget constraints, not to mention the complex priorities of art institutions moving from other parts of the city, like the acoustics of their new sites.
        A New York Times profile of Mr. Young in 1961, two years after the groundbreaking for the complex, said colleagues saw him as ''the perfect chief of staff.''
        ''He knows more about both the large and small details of Lincoln Center than anybody,'' the profile said, ''the architectural vision, how the pipes and sewers can be relocated, what to do about changing the traffic pattern.''
        Edgar Berryhill Young was born in Anderson, Ind., on April 27, 1908, the only child of Earl and Irene Berryhill Young. Besides his son John, of Princeton, N.J., he is survived by two other sons, Peter of Las Cruces, N.M., and Robert of Collins Lake, Calif.; 12 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. His first wife, the former Jane White, died in 1999; his second wife, Harriet Raymond, died in 2004.
        Mr. Young graduated from DePauw University in 1929. Two years later, he and his first wife went to Britain, where, at the London School of Economics, they studied the British government's labor relations system. When the couple returned to the United States in 1932, Mr. Young was hired by the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker human rights and poverty organization, to study the lack of jobs in Appalachia. In 1933 he was hired by the federal Department of Labor, and six years later he joined what was then called the Bureau of the Budget in the Roosevelt administration.
        In 1946 Mr. Rockefeller hired Mr. Young to advise him on the Rockefeller family's philanthropic interests, primarily the Japan Society and the Asia Society, which among other activities run cultural exchange programs. When Mr. Rockefeller became president of Lincoln Center in 1956, he took Mr. Young with him. Mr. Young retired in 1973.
        Martin E. Segal, a former chairman of Lincoln Center, said yesterday that Mr. Young was a quiet man who stayed in the background.
        ''He was, for all practical purposes,'' Mr. Segal said, ''the eyes and ears for John D. Rockefeller 3rd, familiar with virtually everything that was going on at Lincoln Center. Because he had been with John D. for years, he was completely trusted.''
      