
        Carlo Maria Badini, a former superintendent of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan who brought the opera house into the age of television and corporate sponsorship, died in Bologna, Italy, on Thursday. He was 81.
        His death was announced by La Scala, which did not give a cause. The Italian news agency ANSA reported that he died from a serious illness.
        Mr. Badini led La Scala from 1977 to 1990, after a similar 13-year span in charge of the Teatro Communale of Bologna. Deficits at the Milan house mounted heavily during his tenure, reaching $2.8 million.
        He struggled to obtain money from the Italian government, which provided most of the funds to run the house, and then took revolutionary action: he sold television rights to broadcasts of the operas, as well as videocassettes, and stepped up private sponsorship, even putting the names of corporate backers on programs.
        Both practices are now commonplace at opera houses worldwide. But at the time, the innovations created an uproar among La Scala's traditionally minded opera fans, who denounced the presence of television cameras and lights in opera's hallowed precinct.
        Mr. Badini was unperturbed. ''We can't cover our costs by increasing sales,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1984. ''We've had 2,000 seats for about 200 years.''
        Two years later, Mr. Badini had righted the company's finances. He also wrestled with the house's tough unions, helped establish La Scala's orchestra as a symphonic ensemble and took the company on tour to Tokyo. And during Mr. Badini's tenure, in 1983, a pope, John Paul II, attended a La Scala performance, apparently the first to do so.
        Mr. Badini oversaw productions by noted directors, including Giorgio Strehler and Luca Ronconi. Claudio Abbado was music director for much of his tenure, followed by Riccardo Muti. While running the house with expert managerial skill, Mr. Badini also used to say that he liked to dirty his hands with the ''dust of the stage.''
        Mr. Badini was credited with helping push through a 1985 national financing law for performing arts institutions. He also helped found a summer music and jazz festival in Bologna, his native city.
        Mr. Badini was born on June 2, 1915, and grew up in a working-class neighborhood. He worked for a union, and at 26 became a Socialist Party commissioner for the province of Bologna, overseeing at various times sports, education, culture and tourism.
        After leaving La Scala, he took over as chairman of Italy's national theater association. In Mr. Badini's final years, he and Mr. Abbado founded the Mozart Orchestra in Bologna, in preparations leading up to the 250th anniversary of that composer's birth, celebrated in 2006.
        Mr. Badini struggled throughout his career to solicit more support for the arts from the national government. In a 1985 interview with the newspaper La Stampa in Turin, he was asked what his greatest worry was regarding music in Italy.
        ''The usual one,'' he answered. ''The absolute indifference of the political world to culture, and music in particular.''
        Correction:  April 24, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Carlo Maria Badini, a former superintendent of La Scala opera house, who died last week at the age of 81, misstated the year he was born. It was 1925, not 1915.
      