
        Diane Rothschild, an advertising executive and copywriter who headed her own firm and created pithy and amusing ad campaigns, including some for the Range Rover off-road vehicle and J&B Scotch, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63.
        The cause was lung cancer, her husband, Alan O. Pando, said.
        In a 38-year career, including 14 years as president of Grace & Rothschild, Ms. Rothschild wrote and produced commercials and print advertisements for many major companies and their products, including I.B.M., Volkswagen, Chivas Regal whiskey and Mobil Oil, now part of ExxonMobil.
        Among her most memorable campaigns was the series for the Range Rover, a high-priced British vehicle. One ad showed a Range Rover on the edge of a steep slope; the text said, ''The British have always driven on the wrong side of the road.'' Another showed the vehicle fording a stream, with text saying, ''We brake for fish.''
        Billboard and print ads that Ms. Rothschild created for J&B Scotch to run during Christmas seasons in the 1990s displayed a bottle and said: '' 'ingle 'ells, 'ingle 'ells -- the holidays aren't the same without J&B.''
        Two years ago, Ms. Rothschild was inducted into the One Club Creative Hall of Fame, considered one of the advertising industry's highest honors. It was the first time a woman had been inducted since 1974.
        Ms. Rothschild said at the time: ''Based on the world according to uninspired, rigid, time-warped and aging advertising men, I should be home right now in a little apron.''
        Diane Rothschild was born in Manhattan on April 11, 1943, the daughter of Morton and Marjorie Rothschild. She graduated from Adelphi University in 1965. Besides her husband, whom she married in 1998, Ms. Rothschild is survived by a daughter, Alexandra Spencer of Sag Harbor, N.Y. Her previous marriage, to John Spencer, ended in divorce.
        In 1973, Ms. Rothschild was hired as a copywriter by Doyle Dane Bernbach, a major advertising firm that is now called DDB Worldwide. By 1986, she was executive vice president, creative director and a member of the board. That year, with Roy Grace, who had been chairman of Doyle Dane Bernbach, she formed Grace & Rothschild. The company closed in 2000, soon after losing the large Range Rover account, and Ms. Rothschild joined Della Femina/Jeary & Partners, which changed its name to Della Femina Rothschild Jeary & Partners.
        Five years ago, after she learned she had lung cancer, Ms. Rothschild was elected to the board of the nonprofit Lung Cancer Alliance and soon began planning a print advertising campaign calling for increased financial support toward work on early detection of the disease. One of the campaign's ads, which ran last year, said: ''This lung cancer patient can't stop smoking. Because she never started.''
      