
        Warren E. Avis, a Michigan car dealership owner who, frustrated at waiting for taxis outside airports, founded a chain of car rental agencies and turned it into the nation's second biggest, died yesterday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 92.
        Mr. Avis's death was confirmed by his wife, Yanna, who said he died from natural causes.
        In 1946, when Mr. Avis opened his first Avis Airlines Rent-A-Car in Florida and Michigan, all his rival companies were in downtown garages.
        So Mr. Avis, a former major in the Army Air Force who spent a great deal of time at airline terminals, decided to open rental centers at airports, where he reasoned thousands of airline passengers would need a ride.
        ''Nobody thought it would work,'' Mr. Avis said in a 1987 interview. ''There was incredible trouble. You had to get all the airlines to cooperate. Where did you put the cars?''
        But it did work. Avis employees parked the cars outside airport terminals, and customers, who were at first confused, soon figured out the new system.
        Within a decade, Avis was second in size only to Hertz -- a fact the company would later promote to its benefit in advertisements that carried the tagline, ''We try harder.''
        Warren Edward Avis was born in Bay City, Mich., north of Detroit, in 1915. His peripatetic career began in the Michigan department of investigation, where he investigated auto dealerships, moved onto a drug company, where he sold pills, and then to the Army Air Force.
        When his military service ended, he bought a stake in a Ford dealership in Detroit, where he began developing a plan for a new type of car rental center focused on airports. Using $10,000 of his own money, he started Avis.
        Despite the company's early success, Mr. Avis quickly sold it in 1954, putting in motion a series of sales that would, over the next few decades, leave his car rental company in the hands of a dozen different owners.
        Mr. Avis, who acknowledged that he was restless in matters of business, began buying and selling factories, hotels -- even a bank. When he decided that a company, like the bank, was ''boring,'' as he said, he quickly sold it. Later in life, he invested in technology companies, purchased sporting goods distributors and began developing office buildings on his 300-acre farm near Ann Arbor.
        He is survived by his wife, Yanna; three children from a previous marriage, Wendy Avis-King of Moreland Hills, Ohio; Wayne Avis of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; and Warren Avis Jr. of Palm Beach, Fla.; six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Avis was fit and active until shortly before his death, even water skiing until the age of 89, his wife said last night. She called him an ''amazing, out-of-the-ordinary man.''
        Mr. Avis was not bashful about his wealth, or his desire to spend it.
        ''I've never been interested in making a fortune and having a heart attack, as some people do,'' he told The New York Times in 1987.'' If you don't enjoy the money, then the money doesn't have any value.''
        Correction:  May 28, 2007, Monday  An obituary on April 25 about Warren E. Avis, founder of the chain of car-rental agencies, misstated the year of an interview in which Mr. Avis discussed the difficulties he faced over his idea to open such agencies at airports. It was 1985, not 1987. A reader pointed out the error in an e-mail message on May 20.
      