
        Mary D. Crisp, whose stalwart advocacy of feminism and abortion rights as national co-chairman of the Republican Party led to her ouster in 1980 and a sharp rebuke from the party's presidential candidate, Ronald Reagan, died on March 24 at her home in Phoenix. She was 83.
        Ms. Crisp's brother, Richard Dent, confirmed her death, but said he did not know the cause.
        Her greatest fame came in 1980, when she made an impassioned plea to the Republican National Convention in Detroit for passage of the equal rights amendment to the Constitution, which would have ended legal distinctions based on sex. The amendment was struggling in state legislatures; a few more state ratifications would have made it part of the Constitution. Although it had had the support of Republican conventions since 1940, the 1980 platform committee voted to oppose it.
        Ms. Crisp also spoke out against a constitutional amendment to ban abortion, which the party had advocated in 1976 and again supported in 1980, and opposed her party's opposition to federal financing of abortions.
        ''We are about to bury the rights of over 100 million American women under a heap of platitudes,'' she said of those positions.
        Reagan retorted that Ms. Crisp ''should look to herself and see how loyal she's been to the Republican Party for quite some time.''
        Ms. Crisp's friends said she had been stung by Reagan's criticism, which she watched on television, The New York Times reported.
        She had earlier agreed not to run for re-election after Bill Brock, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, expressed anger about newspaper reports saying she supported the independent candidacy of Representative John B. Anderson of Illinois. She denied the reports but later became Mr. Anderson's campaign manager.
        After the Anderson campaign failed, Ms. Crisp directed the political action committee of the National Abortion Rights Action League. She was a founder of the National Republican Coalition for Choice after the Supreme Court in 1989 restricted federal financing for abortions in its decision in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services.
        Mary Dent was born in Allentown, Pa., in 1923, to Elizabeth Patch Dent and Harry Dent. She majored in botany at Oberlin College and did graduate work in political science at Arizona State University.
        In 1948, she married William Crisp; they were divorced in 1976. In addition to her brother, who lives in Schnecksville, Pa., she is survived by three children, William Dent Crisp, Barbara Crisp and Anne Crisp, all of Phoenix; her sister, Jesse Dent Cook of Arlington, Va.; her companion, William Tayler; and two grandchildren.
        Ms. Crisp, a strong supporter of Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, began her political career as a deputy registrar in one of his campaigns. She then served two terms as Arizona's national committeewoman. In 1976, she was chosen to be secretary of the Republican National Convention and read the roll of the states.
        From 1984 through the mid-1990s, she was national director of Business Executives for National Security, a nonpartisan advocacy group that gives advice to the military.
        Ms. Crisp continued her efforts to liberalize Republican stances on abortion and equal rights, often arguing that it was good strategy because polls often showed that a majority of the public favored abortion under varying conditions. She further contended that favoring abortion rights was the logical position for free-market libertarians. ''How can we support freedom from government interference on economic issues but not on the most basic personal decision of all?'' she asked in 1992.
        After President George Bush lost the election that year, Richard N. Bond, the departing chairman of the Republican Party, appealed to Republicans to end their opposition to abortion and ''not cling to zealotry masquerading as principle.''
        Ms. Crisp responded, ''I wish he had made this speech before the election, when it would have made a difference.''
      