
        William B. Lawless Jr., a former justice of the New York State Supreme Court and dean of the University of Notre Dame School of Law, died Monday near his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter Therese said.
        Mr. Lawless was a State Supreme Court justice in Erie County from 1960 to 1968. In 1967, in perhaps his most noteworthy decision, he ruled that the state prison system must recognize Black Muslims as members of a valid religion.
        ''Prisoners, including so-called Black Muslims, are entitled to worship according to their religious beliefs,'' Justice Lawless wrote in the decision, SaMarion v. McGinnis, adding that state prison regulations at the time constituted ''a vehicle for the suppression'' of Black Muslims.
        The ruling prompted a rewording of the regulations, allowing Black Muslim ministers to conduct services in prison and prisoners to keep copies of the Koran and to abstain from eating foods forbidden by their religious beliefs.
        In 1968, Justice Lawless was named dean of the Notre Dame law school. In his three years there he created one of the nation's first programs allowing law students to spend a year abroad, in this case, studying the roots of common law, in London.
        After leaving Notre Dame, he joined the New York law firm Mudge, Rose, Guthrie and Alexander. In 1982, he was named president of Western State University College of Law in Fullerton, Calif.
        William Burns Lawless Jr. was born in North Tonowanda, N.Y., on June 3, 1922. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Buffalo and law degrees from Notre Dame and Harvard. He was president of the Buffalo City Council from 1956 until his election to the bench in 1960.
        In 1944, Mr. Lawless married the former Jeanne Offerman, with whom he had 12 children. They were divorced in 1975.
        In addition to his daughter Therese, Justice Lawless is survived by his wife, the former Agnes Keane, whom he married in 1983; five other daughters, Sharon Lawless, Barbara Lawless, Jeanne Lawless, Maria Lawless and Cathy Detrick; six sons, Billie, Gregory, Richard, Robert, John and Thomas; 25 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      