
        Chaucey Starr, a pioneer in the fields of nuclear energy and risk analysis and an evangelist for the idea of electrification as a boon to humankind and the environment, died on Tuesday at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 95.
        Mr. Starr was still coming to work six days a week until the day before his death, according to the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit utility consortium in Palo Alto, Calif., which he founded in 1972.
        Both Dr. Starr's advocacy and his design work were important in the early years of nuclear power.
        ''Chauncey Starr was a visionary pioneer in the field of nuclear energy and helped encourage the development of the domestic nuclear power industry,'' Dale Klein, the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said on Wednesday. ''Likewise, he was a leader in reactor safety, a seminal thinker in the field of risk analysis, and one of the pre-eminent engineer-scientists of our time.''
        Mr. Starr was the dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, from 1966 to 1973; there, he directed early work on risk analysis and social benefits.
        He was a very early exponent of the idea that society's perception of risk was skewed. At a meeting of the National Academy of Engineering in 1969, commenting on why only 40 percent of car passengers used lap belts and hardly any used shoulder belts (which were then separate pieces of hardware), he said that people would accept risks if they thought the risks were more than balanced by convenience or other benefits. Thus, he said, people would accept ''voluntary'' risks, from smoking or sports, that were 1,000 times as great as the risk they would allow to be imposed on them from the generation of electricity.
        ''As one would expect, we are loath to let others do unto us what we happily do to ourselves,'' he said.
        Earning an electrical engineering degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1932 and a Ph.D. in physics three years later, Dr. Starr became a research fellow at Harvard University and then worked on the Manhattan Project, the World War II effort to develop atomic weapons.
        By 1953, as the president of the atomic research division of North American Aviation, he presented a model of an eight-megawatt nuclear power reactor that he said could be built for $10 million. It used liquid metal to transfer the heat produced in the reactor for production of steam and electricity. It was not the design ultimately chosen by the American industry.
        Three years later, observing that generating capacity was doubling every 10 years in this country, he predicted that nuclear power might eventually dominate the energy field.
        ''In about 50 years, it might be conceivably most desirable if the major portions of our electricity and heat for cities was supplied by central station nuclear power plants,'' he said. ''This would preserve our fossil fuel resources for mobile power (automobiles, trains, small ships and airplanes) and raw material for the chemical industry.''
        In fact, reactors today provide 20 percent of the nation's electricity, and 10 percent of its energy over all. Dr. Starr was also an advocate of electrification. In the 1980s and 1990s, he would argue at energy conferences that electrification had planetwide potential. Cooking dinner over an open fire, as in the third world, wastes 98 percent of the energy used. If the same wood were burned in a boiler to make electricity, he said, it might cook 15 dinners.
        Dr. Starr wrote more than 400 technical and scientific articles. He had also served as vice president of the National Academy of Engineering and was a founder and past president of the American Nuclear Society.
        He is survived by his wife of 69 years, Doris; a daughter, Ariel Wooley of Los Altos, Calif.; a son, Ross, of San Diego; and five grandchildren.
        A celebration to honor Mr. Starr, who turned 95 on Saturday, was held at the Electric Power Research Institute the day before he died; 200 colleagues attended.
        Correction:  April 20, 2007, Friday  An obituary and headline yesterday about the founder of the Electric Power Research Institute, who was also a leading exponent of nuclear power, misspelled his given name. He was Chauncey Starr, not Chaucey.
      