
        Dakota Staton, a highly respected jazz and blues singer known from the 1950s on for her bright, trumpetlike sound and tough, sassy style, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 76 and had lived in New York for many years.
        Sharynn Harper, a spokeswoman for Ms. Staton's family, confirmed the death, citing no specific cause. She said Ms. Staton had been in declining health in recent years.
        In 1957, Ms. Staton (pronounced STAY-ton) burst on the scene with her first full-length album, ''The Late, Late Show,'' released by Capitol Records. The album was a hit, and the title track became her most famous number. Her other well-known songs include ''Broadway'' and ''My Funny Valentine,'' from the same album, and ''What Do You Know About Love?,'' which she recorded earlier as a single for Capitol.
        Ms. Staton, who recorded more than two dozen albums, was widely praised by critics and worked with many distinguished musicians, among them the pianist George Shearing and the arrangers Nelson Riddle and Sid Feller. But she never attained the fame of singers like Dinah Washington, whom she cited as a deep influence. This may have been partly because Ms. Staton was born a hair too late; by the time she began recording albums, rock 'n' roll was shouldering aside her brand of bluesy jazz.
        She continued performing well into her 60s, however. Writing in The New York Times in 1998, Robert Sherman called Ms. Staton ''one of America's great vocal stylists.''
        Dakota Staton was born in Pittsburgh on June 3, 1930, and began singing and dancing as a child. By the time she was 18, she was singing in nightclubs in Detroit and other Midwestern cities; she later settled in New York. In 1955, Down Beat magazine voted her the most promising newcomer of the year.
        In the late 1950s, Ms. Staton married Talib Dawud, a trumpeter; the marriage ended in divorce. (Ms. Staton, who converted to Islam after her marriage, used the name Aliyah Rabia for a time.) Her brother, Fred Staton, a saxophonist who lives in New York City, is her only immediate survivor.
        Among Ms. Staton's other albums are ''Dynamic!'' (Capitol, 1958); ''Dakota at Storyville'' (Capitol, 1961); ''Isn't This a Lovely Day'' (Muse, 1992); and ''Live at Milestones'' (Caffe Jazz), released last month.
      