
        Stan Daniels, a television writer who won Emmy Awards for his work on the groundbreaking situation comedies ''Taxi'' and ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' died April 6 at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Ed Weinberger, his former writing partner.
        Mr. Daniels, a fan of musicals who also wrote a musical satire about televangelists, died playing show tunes on his piano, Mr. Weinberger said on Wednesday in a telephone interview.
        Mr. Daniels won eight Emmys for his television work, two for writing on ''Mary Tyler Moore'' and six, shared with fellow producers, for outstanding comedy series. ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' which was on CBS from 1970 to 1977, won that award three times, as did ''Taxi,'' which was on ABC and then NBC from 1978 to 1983.
        Mr. Daniels worked with James L. Brooks, a creator of ''Mary Tyler Moore,'' on many of its episodes before joining Mr. Brooks and others to develop ''Taxi.''
        Both sitcoms portrayed single adults struggling in the big city, and both featured ensemble casts of unprecedented comic subtlety. ''I never met anyone like him who was prominent in comedy,'' Mr. Brooks, who went on to direct Oscar-winning films, said on Wednesday in a telephone interview. ''He was professorial, and his passion was Broadway musicals. You looked at him to nod, and when he did, you felt good.''
        Mr. Daniels was born in Toronto and attended the University of Toronto, then Oxford University. He began his television writing career in 1965 on ''The Dean Martin Show,'' where he met Mr. Weinberger.
        One of Mr. Daniels's Emmys was awarded for a 1975 episode of ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' in which the title character, a television news producer, goes to jail for refusing to name her source. Mary meets a cellmate dressed like a prostitute and asks her what she is in for. The cellmate's deadpan response: ''I fell in love with a cop.'' That, Mr. Weinberger said, was one of Mr. Daniels's lines.
        Mr. Daniels also wrote for ''Phyllis'' (1975-77), a ''Mary Tyler Moore'' spinoff starring Cloris Leachman, and, with Mr. Brooks, was a co-writer of the 1978 ABC special ''Cindy,'' an African-American version of the Cinderella story.
        His later television shows included HBO's ''Glory! Glory!'' (1989), a four-hour musical spoof of television evangelists with characters resembling Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker. He composed music and lyrics for the 1976 Broadway musical ''So Long, 174th Street,'' which closed after 16 performances.
        Mr. Daniels is survived by his wife, Alene; his children, Dari, Shelley, Alan and Larry; and two grandsons.
        Pinpointing the legacy of a situation comedy writer is difficult because of the genre's collaborative nature. But Al Jean, an executive producer of ''The Simpsons,'' said that Mr. Daniels might be best known, at least within the industry, for a joke construction referred to as ''the Stan Daniels turn.''
        ''It's a staple of comedy writing,'' Mr. Jean explained. ''A character says something and then does an immediate 180-degree shift on what he just said. It's definitely a term in use, and it's something that Stan Daniels did really well.''
      