
        Rubin Caslow, a titan of smoked fish who for half a century paved America with salmon, whitefish and herring, died on Sunday at his home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, his son Robert said.
        For decades, Mr. Caslow presided over the Acme Smoked Fish Corporation, a family-owned concern now in its fourth generation. Located in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn, the company also has offices in Philadelphia and Los Angeles and is the country's largest producer and distributor of smoked fish, Robert Caslow said.
        Acme's wares can be found under countermen's knives at fabled New York food shops, among them Zabar's, Russ & Daughters, Barney Greengrass, Citarella and Fairway. The company also supplies vacuum-packed fish to stores throughout the United States, including Costco and many supermarkets. The public can buy fish at the company's retail outlet in Brooklyn on Fridays from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.
        At the Greenpoint plant, which measures 80,000 square feet and employs 160 people, mountains of fish are cleaned and brined, then smoked over hardwoods like maple, oak and hickory before being sliced and packed. Until he was well into his 80s, the elder Mr. Caslow came in every day at 2 p.m. and stayed till 5 in the morning, giving his drivers their routes and often helping to load the trucks himself.
        It is no small thing to move seven million pounds of fish a year, as Acme does. Among the products it markets, under the Acme and Blue Hill Bay labels, are smoked tuna, smoked mackerel, smoked sable, smoked whiting, smoked trout and smoked sturgeon; sockeye salmon, Scottish salmon, Irish salmon, Norwegian salmon and Gaspé salmon; pastrami-smoked salmon, mesquite-smoked salmon, jalapeño-smoked salmon, baked salmon and kippered salmon; salt herring, schmaltz herring, matjes herring, rollmop herring, herring in cream sauce and herring in wine sauce; and herring salad, whitefish salad, salmon salad and gefilte fish.
        Everything is kosher but the sturgeon, which is kept strictly segregated under a rabbi's watchful eye. (Sturgeon is generally considered nonkosher because the adult fish have no scales.)
        It goes without saying that the company makes lox, though lox -- who knew? -- is not smoked but simply cured in brine.
        Rubin Caslow, always called Ruby, was born on April 20, 1920, in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, the son of Jewish immigrants from Byelorussia, now Belarus. He was born to smoked fish: Mr. Caslow's father, Max, bought fish from local smokehouses and sold it in the street from a wagon. Young Rubin joined him the day after he graduated from Samuel J. Tilden High School, delivering fish by truck.
        In 1941, Rubin Caslow married Charlotte Brownstein, forging a dynastic union of smoked-fish families: her father, Harry, also a fish peddler, would found Acme in 1954. (He chose the name so it would be listed first in the telephone book.) Mr. Caslow went to work for his father-in-law, taking over the company after Mr. Brownstein died in the 1960s.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Caslow is survived by two sons, Robert, Acme's vice president, and Eric, its president, both of Port Washington, N.Y.; four grandchildren, three of whom work in the family business; and seven great-grandchildren.
        ''Up until the day before he died, he was still having smoked fish as part of his lunch,'' Robert Caslow said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''For my dad's shiva, we had smoked fish. He would have been happy with it.''
      