
        Stanley L. Miller, a scientist whose spectacular discovery as a young graduate student pioneered the study of the origin of life on earth, died Sunday at a hospital near his home in National City, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was heart failure, said his brother, Donald Miller.
        Dr. Miller was known for a classic experiment that he performed as a graduate student and published in 1953. The experiment showed how amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, could easily be generated from the simple chemicals assumed to have been present on the primitive earth.
        The finding caught the imagination of scientists everywhere by suggesting that it might soon be possible to reconstruct the emergence of the first living cells from the soup of chemicals generated by natural conditions on the early earth. Dr. Miller had opened an experimental approach toward one of the hardest remaining problems in biology.
        He spent much of the rest of his scientific career at the University of California, San Diego, doing elaborations of his famous experiment and showing how more and more of the basic chemicals used by living cells could have arisen under natural conditions. But despite the brilliant beginning, neither he nor others were able to take the next step, that of providing a plausible mechanism by which these chemicals could have been assembled into living cells or the macromolecules -- DNA and proteins -- on which cells depend.
        In the last decade, a rival theory, advocated by the chemist Günter Wächtershäuser and others, held that Dr. Miller's approach was a blind alley. Dr. Wächtershäuser argued that life was more likely to have arisen in the exotic conditions near volcanoes, driven by metal catalysts, not in the more natural conditions simulated in Dr. Miller's experiments.
        Dr. Miller, defending his approach, said that his rival's theory was ''overblown'' and that it failed to show how copious amounts of amino acids could be produced, as he had done.
        The origin of the Miller experiment lay in work by the geochemist Harold Urey, of the University of Chicago, who argued in 1951 that the atmosphere of the early earth would have consisted of water vapor, ammonia and methane, with no oxygen. Mr. Miller, then a doctoral student at the university, was looking for a new thesis because of the departure of his adviser, the nuclear physicist Edward Teller.
        He approached Dr. Urey suggesting an experiment to simulate the chemistry of early earth, assuming an atmosphere like the one Dr. Urey had just proposed.
        Dr. Urey at first discouraged him, believing the experiment would take too long for a graduate student. But Mr. Miller persisted. He set up a flask of water to represent the oceans, connected to a flask of gases through which he passed electrical discharges to represent lightning.
        After just two days, there were signs that glycine, a simple amino acid, had been created, and by the end of the week several more of life's essential building blocks had turned up in the seething mixture.
        ''He was three feet off the floor,'' said Donald Miller, his older brother and a physical chemist.
        Mr. Miller wrote up his findings, dutifully adding his supervisor's name. But Dr. Urey told him to take it off, explaining, '' 'I've already got my Nobel Prize,' '' Dr. Donald Miller said.
        Dr. Urey told Mr. Miller to send the paper to Science, a leading journal, but, infuriated by its delays, he had the article resubmitted to The Journal of the American Chemical Society. This maneuver extracted a promise of quick publication from Science, which Mr. Miller accepted, his former student Jeffrey L. Bada recounted in a recent article in that journal.
        Donald Miller said that he had recently asked his brother why he, too, had become a chemist and that Stanley had replied, ''I followed you.'' Besides his brother, Dr. Miller is survived by his companion, Maria Morris.
        Dr. Stanley Miller was doubly fortunate in making an outstanding discovery at a young age and in having a supervisor generous enough to let him have full credit for it. His finding was published in the same year as James Watson's and Francis Crick's discovery of the structure of DNA. But it has proved much harder to build on, and the origins of life on earth remain obscure despite Dr. Miller's impressive initial assault on the problem.
      