
        Lloyd Alexander, a National Book Award-winning author of fantasy novels for young people whose work was noted for its romantic locales, complex characters and barely concealed allegorical depictions of the struggle against tyranny, died on Thursday at his home in Drexel Hill, Pa. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, according to Mr. Alexander's literary agency, Brandt & Hochman, which announced the death.
        The author of more than 40 books, Mr. Alexander was best known for the five novels collectively called ''The Prydain Chronicles,'' published by Holt, Rinehart & Winston between 1964 and 1968. Set in a kingdom inspired by traditional Welsh mythology, the novels tell the story of Taran, a youth so humble he is not even a pig keeper but merely an assistant pig keeper. (The pig, it should be pointed out, is an oracular pig.)
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1966, the noted children's author Jean Fritz reviewed the first three Prydain novels -- ''The Book of Three (1964), ''The Black Cauldron'' (1965) and ''The Castle of Llyr'' (1966) -- together, calling them ''fantasy in the great tradition.'' She added: ''Each of the books is a complete chronicle in its own right -- exciting, highly imaginative and sometimes profound.''
        Mr. Alexander won two National Book Awards. The first was for ''The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian'' (Dutton, 1970), the story of a young man, a princess and their flight from a repressive ruler. The second was for ''Westmark'' (Dutton, 1981), the first novel in a trilogy of that name, about a printer's apprentice who falls in with a theatrical troupe.
        In 1969, Mr. Alexander received a Newbery Medal from the American Library Association for ''The High King'' (1968), the final Prydain novel.
        Lloyd Chudley Alexander was born on Jan. 30, 1924, in Philadelphia and reared in suburban Drexel Hill. Though neither of his parents cared for books, he had determined to become a writer by the time he was 15, captivated by Dickens and by the Greek and Arthurian legends that would inform his work.
        He announced his career choice to his parents, who did not take it well. His father, a stockbroker, had suffered huge setbacks in the crash of 1929, and the prospect of a son scribbling in a garret did not inspire fiscal confidence. So after high school, at his parents' insistence, Lloyd took a job as a bank messenger. The work proved useful, however, inspiring his first book, ''And Let the Credit Go'' (Crowell, 1955), a semiautobiographical novel for adults set partly in a bank.
        After enlisting in the Army in 1943, Mr. Alexander was sent for training in Wales, where he came under the spell of the country's brooding romanticism.
        ''It seemed I recognized faces from all the hero tales of my childhood,'' he wrote in a memoir, ''My Love Affair With Music'' (Crowell, 1960). ''Not until years afterwards did I realize I had been given, without my knowing, a glimpse of another enchanted kingdom.''
        At war's end, Mr. Alexander was sent to Paris to work in counterintelligence. There, he studied briefly at the Sorbonne and met his wife, Janine Denni, whom he married in 1946. She died earlier this month. Mr. Alexander is survived by five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. His wife's daughter, Madeleine, whom he adopted, also died before him. Information on other survivors could not be immediately confirmed.
        In 1947, Mr. Alexander returned with his family to the United States, where he worked variously as a cartoonist, advertising writer, layout artist and magazine editor while publishing several novels for adults. In 1963, with his first children's novel, ''Time Cat'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston), he found his vocation. Mr. Alexander's other books for children include the Vesper Holly series, about a spirited girl in 1870s Philadelphia.
        His last children's novel, ''The Golden Dream of Carlo Chuchio,'' is scheduled to be published in August by Henry Holt & Company.
        For Mr. Alexander, the uses of enchantment were clear: fantasy, he often said, was a powerful way of talking about real-world injustice.
        ''In whatever guise -- our own daily nightmares of war, intolerance, inhumanity; or the struggles of an Assistant Pig-Keeper against the Lord of Death -- the problems are agonizingly familiar,'' he said in his Newbery acceptance speech in 1969. ''And an openness to compassion, love and mercy is as essential to us here and now as it is to any inhabitant of an imaginary kingdom.''
      