
        Robert M. Warner, who built a legislative consensus to wrest the National Archives from political control when he was its director, died on April 24 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack after a yearlong battle with cancer, his son, Mark Warner, said.
        From 1980 to 1985, Dr. Warner, as the sixth Archivist of the United States, ran the archives, the depository for the nation's historical documents, from the Declaration of Independence to the Nixon tapes.
        When he started the job, the archives were a division of the General Services Administration, facing severe budget and staffing cuts, and morale was low. Heads of the G.S.A. were political appointees who did not need archival expertise and could be subject to the whims of presidents. For example, a previous head of the agency had given President Richard M. Nixon control over access to his own White House materials. At the same time, there was a proposal to decentralize the archives and distribute them to several sites around the country, which archivists in the pre-digital age saw as a severe handicap to researchers.
        Faced with all these difficulties, Dr. Warner sought to turn his institution into an independent federal agency, capable of requesting its own budget from Congress, rather than relying on executive branch decisions. The archives, founded in 1934, had been part of the G.S.A. since 1949.
        ''He mobilized groups behind the scenes,'' the current United States archivist, Allen Weinstein, said of Dr. Warner.
        ''He was an informal but passionate advocate for the independence of the archives,'' uniting members of Congress, journalists, and other people in Washington to push for independence, Mr. Weinstein continued.
        Senators Charles McC. Mathias, Republican of Maryland, and Thomas F. Eagleton, Democrat of Missouri, introduced legislation to make the archives independent.
        The legislation turned the archives into the National Archives and Records Administration, and Dr. Warner retired from government service two weeks after it officially became a separate agency on April 1, 1985.
        As archivist he fended off a subpoena from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1981 for the confirmation hearing of Alexander M. Haig Jr. to be secretary of state. Dr. Warner argued in a letter to the committee that the purpose of the subpoena was ''uncertain, open-ended and speculative'' and noted that years of litigation could result before he would comply with the subpoena, according to The New York Times. The subpoena sought summaries of 100 hours of conversations between President Nixon and Mr. Haig in 1973 when Mr. Haig was Nixon's chief of staff. The committee did not press the issue, passing a resolution to keep its inquiry open but scheduling a vote to confirm Mr. Haig.
        Dr. Warner was in turn later rebuffed when the United States Information Agency refused to allow archivists to review transcripts of secretly recorded conversations between employees of the agency and the agency's director, Charles Z. Wick.
        The archivist, who evaluates information to decide what should be made public, wanted to determine if the records were official records or private, as U.S.I.A. officials contended, and therefore not mandatory to save. Some of Mr. Wick's conversations, which had been reviewed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee, were with government officials: James A. Baker III, the White House chief of staff, and Kenneth L. Adelman, the director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
        Upon completion of his government service, Dr. Warner returned to the University of Michigan, where he had previously run the Bentley Historical Library. He became dean of the School of Library Science, served on boards and wrote a memoir of his fight to make the archives independent.
        Dr. Warner was born in Montrose, Colo., on June 28, 1927. He graduated from Muskingum College in New Concord, Ohio, in 1949 and received a Ph.D. in American history in 1958 from the University of Michigan. While in graduate school he took a position with the Michigan Historical Collections, eventually becoming its third director.
        It was at Muskingum College that he met his future wife, Jane, who died in August 2006 after 52 years of marriage. Besides his son, Mark, he is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Cuddeback, an archivist at the Lyndon B. Johnson Library in Austin, Tex.; and two grandsons.
        In 2005, the Robert M. Warner Research Center at the National Archives building in Washington was named for him.
      