
        Harvey J. Weinstein, a formal wear manufacturer whose kidnapping and survival after 12 days in a barrel-shaped pit near the Hudson River in Manhattan made headlines around the country in August 1993, died on May 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        He died after a long illness, his son Mark said.
        ''Thank God you're here, and I'd like to have a cigarette,'' Mr. Weinstein said to detectives who, on Aug. 16, 1993, had to dig through several inches of topsoil and lift a steel door weighted down by cinderblocks to free him from the camouflaged crypt just north of the 158th Street exit of the Henry Hudson Parkway.
        The police, informed of Mr. Weinstein's whereabouts by one of five suspects in the kidnapping, had heard his muffled cry from the 14-foot-deep, 5-foot-wide hole, ''I'm here, I'm here.''
        Mr. Weinstein was chairman of Lord West Formal Wear, a company started in the 1940s by his father, Emanuel Weinstein. By the mid-'90s, the company was one of the largest formal wear manufacturers in the country, producing about 100,000 tuxedos a year, some under brand names like Ralph Lauren and Pierre Cardin, and supplying more than 2,000 retailers. Mr. Weinstein retired in 1999 and sold his share of the business to several partners. The company is now called Flow Formal Alliance.
        One of the kidnappers, Fermin Rodriguez, had been one of about 500 employees of Lord West, sewing pants at the company factory on Northern Boulevard in Jackson Heights, Queens.
        On the morning of Aug. 4, 1993, Mr. Weinstein had just finished his usual breakfast at a diner on Northern Boulevard when two men -- later identified as Mr. Rodriguez and his brother Francisco Rodriguez -- forced him into a car as he walked through the parking lot.
        By the time Mr. Weinstein was freed, more than 50 phone conversations had taken place between his captors, who were demanding $3 million in ransom, and his relatives. Twice, one of Mr. Weinstein's sons lugged duffel bags stuffed with stacks of $50 and $100 bills to drop-off points. But the kidnappers did not show up. Finally, on the morning of Aug. 16, Fermin Rodriguez picked up the ransom near Highbridge Park in Upper Manhattan. He was arrested three hours later by detectives who had trailed him.
        Mr. Rodriguez's brother, two other men and a woman who made phone calls to the Weinsteins were also arrested. One suspect, who cooperated with prosecutors, was sentenced to one to three years in prison, the Manhattan district attorney's office said on Wednesday; two served lengthy sentences and two, including Fermin Rodriguez, were sentenced to life in prison.
        Mr. Weinstein's equanimity after essentially being buried alive attracted admiring letters from thousands of well-wishers around the country, his family said. Mr. Weinstein was born in Brooklyn on Feb. 14, 1925. He graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1948. Besides his son Mark, he is survived by his companion, Susan Glickman; another son, Dan; two daughters, Lori Weinstein and Deb Weinstein; and seven grandchildren. His marriage to Barbara Milder ended in divorce in 1974.
        When Mr. Weinstein was 18, he enlisted in the Marines and saw action as a machine gunner at Iwo Jima. His Marine experience, Mr. Weinstein later told his children, helped him maintain his composure during those days in the pit. ''He said that he 'wrote' what he called 'the greatest autobiography never written,' '' Mark Weinstein said. ''Every day he took a year in his life and recounted it out loud.''
        In recent years, however, Mr. Weinstein was reluctant to talk about his harrowing experience. ''He only referred to it as his 'vacation,' '' his son said.
      