
        Harold E. Froehlich, a resourceful engineer who applied the principles of aeronautics and balloons to help design the Alvin, the deep-diving exploratory submarine used to recover a misplaced hydrogen bomb in the 1960s and to explore the Titanic wreck, died on May 19 in Maplewood, Minn. He was 84.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Since its launching in 1964, the Alvin, with a crew of three, has completed 4,318 dives and set a standard for reliability and safety in undersea exploration and recovery. The Navy owns it, and scientists at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts operate it.
        Mr. Froehlich, who was trained as an aeronautical engineer, led a team at General Mills in designing a submarine hull to withstand the pressures at 6,000 feet below sea level. The government turned to General Mills because of its expertise in designing strong packaging and balloons.
        In the '50s, Mr. Froehlich helped develop unmanned balloons to take air samples in the upper stratosphere at altitudes up to 100,000 feet in an effort to determine the effects of Russian nuclear testing.
        Using steel, fiberglass, aluminum and a new material, syntactic foam, Mr. Froehlich and his team assembled a 22-foot-long vessel that was buoyant and able to withstand pressures in the deep seas.
        In another innovation, the lead-acid batteries of the Alvin were carried in oil-filled containers to shield them from corrosion and pressure.
        The Navy christened the craft Alvin, a contraction of Allyn C. Vine, a leading oceanographer at Woods Hole who had been an influential proponent of manned undersea exploration.
        To Mr. Froehlich's satisfaction, the Alvin was soon observing secrets of the deep and using its mechanical arm to sample the ocean floor. In 1966, it was used to find and help recover a hydrogen bomb that had been dropped in the Mediterranean after a collision between an American bomber and another aircraft.
        In the '70s, scientists piloted the Alvin to survey the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, where earthquakes are frequent along an expanding sea floor. Off the Galápagos Islands, Robert D. Ballard, the explorer, used the submarine to study footlong clams, large tube worms and other exotic sea life attracted by the warm-water vents he found at depths of 9,000 feet.
        Over the decades, the Alvin structure was reinforced with titanium, its hull was lengthened, and its maximum diving depth increased, to 14,760 feet, allowing deeper explorations.
        In 1986, Dr. Ballard used the Alvin to find the remains of the Titanic in nearly 13,000 feet of water off Newfoundland. A smaller submarine tethered to the Alvin examined the liner's broken hull and returned with the images of a 300-foot gash made by an iceberg, as well as wine bottles, chamber pots and heaps of coal.
        Mr. Froehlich went on to help develop more sophisticated mechanical arms for submarines and other vessels. He later joined the 3M Corporation, where he worked on oil burners to power navigation buoys. At 3M, from which he retired in 1989, he also turned to medical products and helped devise a surgical stapler and a tool to extract staples from the skin.
        Harold Edward Froehlich, known as Bud, was born in Minneapolis. He graduated from the University of Washington and earned a master's in aeronautical engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
        Surviving is his wife of 61 years, the former Avanelle Olson. The couple lived in St. Anthony, Minn., a suburb of Minneapolis. Also surviving are a son, Steven, of Grasston, Minn.; a daughter, Jane Hansen of Deerwood, Minn.; a sister, Catheryn Glessner of Gilbert, Ariz.; and eight grandchildren.
        One of the Alvin's most unexpected discoveries came to light in the Bahamas in 1967. The crew surfaced to find a swordfish attached to the submarine with its bill puncturing the vessel's outer skin. The crew ''arranged for a local restaurant to cut it up, and they had it for dinner that night,'' Mr. Froehlich recalled in an interview in 2003.
        ''It was a fairly good-sized one, too,'' he said.
      