
        Douglas Holmes, a noted social psychologist who spent his career investigating means of improving social services for people at both ends of the life cycle -- children and the elderly -- died on Wednesday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 73 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of progressive supranuclear palsy, a degenerative neurological disease, his family said.
        At his death, Dr. Holmes was emeritus director of the research division and national Alzheimer's center at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Bronx; he had founded the research division there in the mid-1980s. He was also affiliated for many years with the Resource Center for Minority Aging Research at Columbia University.
        Dr. Holmes's best-known research centered on the delivery of services to elderly people. Among the subjects he investigated were dementia care, sexuality among the elderly, meal-delivery programs for the homebound and the need to improve services for aging members of minority groups.
        With his wife and frequent collaborator, Monica Bychowski Holmes, he published the ''Handbook of Human Services for Older Persons'' (Human Sciences Press) in 1979.
        Although Dr. Holmes came to be identified most prominently with his work on aging, he began his career studying child welfare. His research interests included early-childhood education and child-abuse treatment programs, among other subjects.
        He was a co-author of a book about adolescent drug use, ''The Language of Trust: Dialogue of the Generations'' (Science House, 1971), written with his wife and Lisa Appignanesi. Dr. Holmes's other books include ''The Therapeutic Classroom'' (Aronson, 1974; with Dr. Bychowski Holmes and Judith Field).
        Douglas Holmes was born on Dec. 7, 1933, in Washington, Conn. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Tufts University in 1958 and a doctorate in psychology from New York University in 1963.
        Besides his wife, whom he married in 1959, Dr. Holmes is survived by their children, Deborah Holmes of Manhattan; Pamela Holmes of Cincinnati; and Gregory Holmes of Weston; and four grandchildren.
      