
        Edward F. Boyd, who as a young sales executive parlayed his assignment to promote Pepsi-Cola to fellow blacks into a war against white racism and black stereotypes, meanwhile selling oceans more soda, died on April 30 in Los Angeles, PepsiCo announced. He was 92.
        Pepsi hired Mr. Boyd in 1947 -- the same year the Brooklyn Dodgers introduced Jackie Robinson -- and his quieter achievement was also revolutionary. Avoiding Aunt Jemima images, he commissioned ads showing African-Americans as fun-loving middle-class consumers living the American dream. In one ad the small boy shown shopping for Pepsi with his mother was Ron Brown, who would become secretary of commerce.
        He also used pictures of distinguished blacks like Ralph Bunche, the diplomat, and of high-achieving students.
        Mr. Boyd hired some of the first black advertising models, flooded black papers with ads and added new sophistication and prominence to the ads already being published in magazines like Ebony. He created the first point-of-purchase displays aimed at minorities.
        His program also included having celebrities like Duke Ellington and Lionel Hampton give ''shout-outs'' for Pepsi from the stage.
        Mr. Boyd's most daring initiative echoed the hiring of Robinson by the Dodgers' president, Branch Rickey . He assembled a squad of black salesmen to visit bottlers, grocery stores, shoeshine emporia, Elks Clubs, conventions and teachers' and doctors' conferences. They were even invited to speak from church pulpits, discreetly not mentioning a certain effervescent liquid.
        Blacks were then being lynched in the South, and even in the North, many hotels did not welcome the Pepsi salesmen. Mr. Boyd had them use Pullman sleeping cars on trains so they could eat in their compartments, not segregated dining areas. Mr. Boyd often traveled with his lieutenants, who were better qualified but paid less than their white counterparts at Pepsi. One proud salesman, a Harvard graduate, resigned after being sent to the back of a bus.
        Marketing specifically to African-Americans allowed Pepsi to expand at the expense of Coca-Cola. It already had an advantage: its nickel bottle was 12 ounces, compared with Coke's six. (''Twice as much,'' ads boasted.) The upshot was that Pepsi under Mr. Boyd pioneered what Madison Avenue a generation later called ''niche marketing.''
        Mr. Boyd sometimes used race as an explicit selling point. He disseminated a Time magazine report that Coke's chairman, Robert W. Woodruff, had raised a toast to the re-election campaign of Herman Talmadge, the staunchly segregationist Georgia governor. He attacked Coke's widely perceived reluctance to hire blacks.
        His team bolstered Pepsi sales in every area they hit with a marketing blitz, Stephanie Capparell wrote in ''The Real Pepsi Challenge'' (Free Press, 2007). After they visited Chicago, Pepsi overtook Coke there for the first time.
        ''Long before most companies came to see the potential of the black consumer, Ed put doors where previously only walls had existed,'' Donald M. Kendall, retired chairman and chief executive of PepsiCo, said in a statement after Mr. Boyd's death.
        Edward Francis Boyd, a barber's son, was born on June 27, 1914, and raised in Riverside, Calif., where he went to junior college. He graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, and used his singing and dancing training in minor movie roles, generally playing stereotypical black roles he despised. He worked for the Screen Actors Guild, then in government housing programs. He ended up in New York, working for the National Urban League, a civil rights group known for pushing economic betterment.
        In 1944, Mr. Boyd married Edith Jones, who survives him, as do his daughter, Rebecca, of Manhattan; his sons Brandon, of Manhattan; Edward Jr., of Boulder, Colo.; and Timothy, of Chicago; and a granddaughter.
        Pepsi's president, Walter S. Mack, who both favored progressive causes and saw the vast potential of the black market, hired Mr. Boyd in 1947. Mr. Mack had started a three-member black sales force in 1940, but World War II ended it.
        Mr. Boyd's arrival meant a larger initiative, and many black newspapers published long articles about him. Still, his sales force did not expand to the dozen Mr. Mack promised until 1951. Mr. Boyd enlisted the Urban League to train new hires in the higher purposes of their mission.
        The cola wars required delicacy. Ms. Capparell said that Pepsi did not want to appear too solicitous of blacks, for fear of losing white customers. Once a rumor circulated, which Mr. Boyd's salesmen attributed to a Coke bottler, that a black worker had fallen into a Pepsi syrup tank and died.
        Even within Pepsi the road was not always smooth. In 1949, Mr. Mack told 500 bottlers at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel that he no longer wanted Pepsi to be known as a black drink, using a famously objectionable epithet. Mr. Boyd jolted upright and trudged out in what he called ''the longest walk of my life.''
        The two reconciled, but after Mr. Mack left Pepsi in 1950, corporate support for the special black sales team faded. Mr. Boyd went on to private and public jobs, including being a mission chief for CARE, the international aid agency. He later raised alpacas in Bethel, N.Y.
        ''The thing in my life I've had most to fight is bitterness,'' he said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal in 1997. ''I always realized that once I became embittered, I'd lose my objectivity and become nonfunctional and ineffective.''
      