
        Alan V. Lowenstein, a prominent New Jersey lawyer who headed the commission that drafted the restructuring of Newark's government in the 1950s, allowing for the direct election of the mayor, and who also led one of the nation's early attempts at employee ownership of a major company, died Tuesday at his home in Maplewood, N.J. He was 93.
        The death was announced by his son John.
        Mr. Lowenstein was a founder of Lowenstein Sandler, a corporate law firm, which he started with four other partners in Newark in 1961. It now has 250 lawyers at offices in Roseland, N.J., and Manhattan.
        In 1953, Mr. Lowenstein was chairman of the Newark Charter Commission, which recommended that the city's board of commissioners be replaced, with direct election of the mayor and a city council. Since 1917, Newark had been governed by an elected five-member commission that chose one of its members as mayor. Newark voters adopted the new plan in November 1953.
        Mr. Lowenstein was an expert in a certain kind of employee stock ownership plan that allows workers -- usually when their company is facing restructuring or closing -- to buy the company, with some employees serving on its board.
        In 1981, workers at a General Motors plant in Clark, N.J., where roller bearings had been made since 1938, were told that the company would be closing the factory. They hired Mr. Lowenstein to handle their successful bid to buy the plant, for $53 million, and then chose him as chairman of the newly formed Hyatt-Clark Industries.
        By 1984, however, the experiment in employee ownership was in trouble, particularly because of difficulties reaching a contract with the United Auto Workers. The company went bankrupt in 1987.
        Alan Victor Lowenstein was born in Newark on Aug. 30, 1913, the only child of Isaac and Florence Lowenstein. He graduated from the University of Michigan in 1933 and received his law degree from Harvard in 1936.
        Mr. Lowenstein, who retired in 2001, was president of the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra from 1967 to 1973.
        Besides his son John, of Manhattan, Mr. Lowenstein is survived by another son, Roger, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jane Forsyth of Waltham, Mass.; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. His wife of 60 years, the former Amy Lieberman, died in 1999.
      