
        Marian Radke-Yarrow, a researcher in child psychology who conducted many influential studies on a range of sensitive issues -- including prejudice among elementary school pupils, depression in very young children and indications of altruistic impulses even in 1-year-olds -- died on Saturday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 89.
        The cause was leukemia, said her son, Andrew Yarrow.
        Dr. Radke-Yarrow was chief of the developmental psychology laboratory at the National Institute of Mental Health, a division of the National Institutes of Health, from 1974 to 1995. Her studies, which sometimes involved observations of families over several decades, have been published in books and scientific journals since the 1940s.
        Her research on anti-Semitism and racial prejudice in the late 1940s and early '50s, including her book ''They Learn What They Live: Prejudice in Young Children'' (Harper & Brothers, 1952), written with Helen G. Trager, was included as evidence in the Supreme Court's landmark Brown v. Board of Education desegregation decision in 1954. The book examined the roots of prejudice, including self-hatred, among 250 students 5 to 8 years old at public schools in Philadelphia.
        Starting in the 1970s, Dr. Radke-Yarrow spent 20 years observing interactions between chronically depressed parents and their children, documenting the perhaps not surprising assumption that the children were susceptible to serious depression as they matured.
        The study, published in the book ''Risk and Protective Factors in the Development of Psychopathology'' (Cambridge University Press, 1989), offered clues on how some children seemed to thrive against the odds.
        One 9-year-old girl whose mother was seriously depressed and whose father was an alcoholic, for example, seemed happy and was well liked at school, where she excelled. Her resilience, Dr. Radke-Yarrow said, was based on her success in finding neighbors and other children to fill her social and emotional needs.
        A 1983 report by a research team headed by Dr. Radke-Yarrow found, however, that deep depression could strike even very young children. The study, of 9-year-olds in New Zealand, indicated that, based on adult criteria, about 10 percent of the children had already suffered depression, including children as young as 5.
        Marian Radke was born in Horicon, Wis., on March 2, 1918. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1939 and received a doctorate in psychology from the University of Minnesota in 1944.
        Dr. Radke married Leon J. Yarrow, a psychologist at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, in 1949; he died in 1982. Besides her son, Andrew, also of Bethesda, Dr. Radke-Yarrow is survived by one grandson.
        Before her career at the National Institute of Mental Health, Dr. Radke-Yarrow taught psychology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Queens College and the University of Denver. Among her other books are ''Child Rearing: Inquiry Into Research and Methods,'' with John D. Campbell and Roger V. Burton (Jossey-Bass, 1968); ''Development of Antisocial and Prosocial Behavior'' (Academic Press, 1986); and ''Children of Depressed Mothers'' (Cambridge University Press, 1998).
        For 10 years in the 1980s, Dr. Yarrow and Carolyn Zahn-Waxler, a colleague at the National Institute of Mental Health, charted indications of altruism in more than 300 children. They found that as early as 12 months old, some children displayed helpful behavior like touching, patting or offering some other sympathetic gesture to an adult or another child who seemed to be in distress.
        ''This is not happenstance,'' Dr. Radke-Yarrow told The New York Times in 1981. ''These modes of behavior patterning begin from very early on.''
      