
        Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, whose discoveries helped define nuclear astrophysics and whose work toward developing an atomic bomb for Nazi Germany spurred him to help found his country's postwar peace movement, died April 28 in the Bavarian town of Starnberg. He was 94.
        His death was announced by the German government, which said he ''was regarded by many as the last great German thinker of his era.'' His brother, Richard, was president of Germany from 1984 to 1994.
        Mr. von Weizsäcker (pronounced VITE-secker) ranged beyond science and became known as a philosopher. He wrote more than 30 books and founded the prestigious Max Planck Institute for Social Sciences. The depth and complexity of his attempts to unify scientific and religious thought drew particular note, and in 1989 he won the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion.
        In reviewing his book ''The Unity of Nature'' in 1980, The Christian Science Monitor said, ''It is so learned, in fact, and so polymathic, that unless you are a postgraduate physicist who has kept up on your quantum theory and found time along the way to carefully study Plato and Kant and Wittgenstein, large portions of the book will serve you mainly as an exercises in humility.''
        Dr. von Weizsäcker is best known in science for what is sometimes called the Bethe-Weizsäcker cycle, proposed by him and the physicist Hans Bethe in the late 1930s as the nuclear reactive process by which energy is generated in stars. The net result of the complicated process, which is catalyzed by carbon, oxygen and nitrogen, is the conversion of four protons (hydrogen nuclei) into one helium atom, accompanied by the release of energy.
        ''With that discovery, nuclear astrophysics was born, and with it, the understanding that hydrogen's burning into helium is the first stage of an evolutionary process,'' Natural History said in 2000.
        In the 1940s, he turned his attention to the formation of planets, proposing that they were formed when large clumps of matter condensed from a disk of gases rotating around the sun. This theory was originally proposed by René Descartes, the philosopher and mathematician, and developed by the philosopher Immanuel Kant, among others.
        Though others have since advanced Dr. von Weizsäcker's refinements on the idea, his update of the ''nebular'' theory was a ''significant step forward in the evolution towards understanding planetary formation,'' said Notable Scientists: From 1900 to the Present, a reference book.
        Dr. von Weizsäcker was the last living member of the elite research team that tried unsuccessfully to build an atomic bomb for Nazi Germany. He was present at the meeting in Berlin on Sept. 17, 1939, when the program was begun. He led the way in finding how to convert uranium into energy, and how to produce and use plutonium for the same purpose. According to Physics World in 2005, two patent applications for these discoveries under his name were found in Russian archives.
        On Sept. 4, 1941, he passed on an article from a Swedish newspaper about the American effort to make an atomic bomb to top intelligence officials. Within two weeks, he and Werner Heisenberg, the famous physicist and his mentor, visited Denmark to confer with the physicist Niels Bohr, a visit whose purpose has long been debated, though many suggest that it was to find out what Dr. Bohr knew about the American nuclear effort. Dr. Bohr declined to include Dr. von Weizsäcker in the meeting.
        The Germans did not come close to making a workable nuclear weapon, as was proved when American troops captured Dr. von Weizsäcker's laboratory in December 1940 and found no evidence of progress. Dr. von Weizsäcker soon became an important voice in the debate about German scientists' participation in the atomic project. He claimed they failed to make a bomb not because they could not, which was the truth, but because they would not.
        In 1945, he and Dr. Heisenberg were among 10 top German physicists detained by the British at Farm Hall, near Cambridge. Intelligence officers secretly taped the detainees as Dr. von Weizsäcker led the scientists in concocting a story that they lacked ''passion'' for building the bomb.
        In Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists in 2002, William Sweet called this story ''a thin and repugnant effort at rationalization'' and detailed how Dr. von Weizsäcker for years peddled his version of events to historians, journalists and others.
        But Mr. Sweet went on to say that Dr. von Weizsäcker and Dr. Heisenberg ''surely talked themselves into believing'' this view of the past. Both became leaders of Germany's anti-nuclear movement in 1957, when they were among 18 scientists who signed a manifesto protesting nuclear weapons on German soil.
        Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker was born in Kiel, Germany, on June 28, 1912. He came from a family of jurists, theologians and politicians, including his brother, who survives, and his father, who was a high official in Hitler's government. The government released no information on other survivors, but the 2006 edition of Who's Who said he had a wife, three sons and a daughter.
        Correction:  May 3, 2007, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, a German scientist and peace activist, misstated the year American troops raided his laboratory and found no evidence of progress toward making a workable nuclear weapon. It was 1944, not 1940.
      