
        Philip M. Kaiser, a former ambassador to Austria, Hungary and Senegal who served as a diplomat or political appointee under every Democratic president from Harry S. Truman to Jimmy Carter, died Thursday in Washington. He was 93.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son Charles.
        After Mr. Carter named him ambassador to Hungary in 1977, Mr. Kaiser helped win the administration's approval for the return to Budapest of the Crown of St. Stephen, a symbol of Hungarian nationhood, which had been in American custody since World War II.
        Along with Cyrus R. Vance, then the secretary of state, Mr. Kaiser argued that getting back the crown would help encourage Hungary to turn toward the West at the height of the cold war.
        As ambassador to Senegal from 1961 to 1964, Mr. Kaiser assisted in persuading the government in Dakar to deny landing rights to military aircraft of the Soviet Union during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. He had earlier accompanied the president of Senegal, Léopold Sédar Senghor, on a visit to President John F. Kennedy at the White House.
        Mr. Kaiser wrote ''Journeying Far and Wide: A Political and Diplomatic Memoir'' in 1993.
        Philip Mayer Kaiser was born in Brooklyn on July 12, 1913, the ninth of 10 children of Moishe Bear and Tema Sloven Kaiser, who never learned English. His parents, who spoke Russian and Yiddish to each other, emigrated from Ukraine (then part of Russia) in 1905, and his four older siblings were born there.
        Mr. Kaiser received his undergraduate degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1936 and was selected as a Rhodes scholar.
        At Oxford, he studied politics, philosophy and economics at Balliol College, where one of his tutors was the philosopher and critic Sir Isaiah Berlin, who became a lifelong friend. Another friend at Oxford, Byron R. White, the future Supreme Court justice, helped recruit Mr. Kaiser for the Kennedy presidential campaign in 1960.
        Mr. Kaiser was assistant secretary of labor under Truman and a special assistant to Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York in Albany in the late 1950s.
        After serving in Senegal, and then enduring a bout with tuberculosis in Washington, Mr. Kaiser was deputy chief of mission in the American Embassy in London, starting in 1964.
        A lifelong, passionate Democrat, he often said that of the Democratic presidents he served, his favorite was Truman because he was closest to the people. Mr. Kaiser helped in the effort that got the State Department building renamed for Truman in 2000.
        Besides his son Charles, an author and journalist, Mr. Kaiser is survived by his wife of 67 years, Hannah Greeley Kaiser; two other sons, Robert G., a former managing editor and now an associate editor of The Washington Post, and David, a professor of history at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I.; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 26, 2007, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Philip M. Kaiser, a former ambassador to Austria, Hungary and Senegal, gave an incorrect year in some copies for the beginning of his service as ambassador to Senegal. It was 1961, not 1962. The byline also misspelled the given name of the writer in some copies. He is Steven R. Weisman, not Stephen.
      