
        Diego Corrales, who once held four world boxing championships and was remembered most for a pair of brutal lightweight bouts two years ago, died Monday night in a motorcycle accident on the outskirts of Las Vegas. He was 29.
        Corrales was riding a new motorcycle when he tried to pass a car at high speed on a residential street, the police told The Associated Press. He crashed into the back of the car and was thrown from the motorcycle, which collided with an oncoming car. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
        A Las Vegas police spokesman said Corrales was wearing a helmet and said it would take two weeks to obtain the results of drug and alcohol tests.
        Corrales's death came exactly two years after the first of his two memorable bouts in Las Vegas against José Luis Castillo of Mexico. In their lightweight title bout on May 7, 2005, each fighter inflicted punishment during the first nine rounds.
        In the 10th round, Corrales's left eye was shut, his right eye swollen and his face puffy when he was knocked down by a left hook. He got up, took two more lefts and went down again from another left hook. He got up once more.
        Castillo, bleeding from a cut over his left eye, went after Corrales, but Corrales fought back, pinned Castillo against the ropes and battered him until Referee Tony Weeks stopped the fight at 2 minutes 6 seconds of the round.
        ''That 10th round was one of the greatest rounds in boxing history,'' the boxing promoter Gary Shaw said.
        Joe Goosen, Corrales's trainer, said after the fight: ''These two should never fight each other again. You would have to be sadistic to want to see this again. It's too much.''
        They did fight again on Oct. 8, 2005. Castillo won on a fourth-round knockout with a vicious left hook, but Corrales kept the World Boxing Organization and the World Boxing Council titles because Castillo could not make the 135-pound limit, having weighed in at 138 1/2 the day before the fight.
        In a sport with myriad governing bodies, Corrales won the junior lightweight titles (130-pound limit) of the International Boxing Federation and the World Boxing Organization in addition to the lightweight (135-pound) titles of the W.B.O. and the World Boxing Council.
        After compiling an amateur record of 125-20 and a national championship, he turned professional at 18. His pro record, mostly at 130 pounds, was 40-5 with 33 knockouts. He lost his last three fights, the most recent at 147 pounds on April 7 to Joshua Clottey in Springfield, Mo.
        Corrales was reared in Sacramento, Calif., and lived in recent years in Las Vegas.
        He was introduced to boxing at age 3, when his father, Ray Woods, a pro boxer, took him to a gym.
        ''I was just a mean kid, often getting in fights,'' Corrales said on the Showtime Web site. ''My dad just wanted me to find something to keep me out of trouble.''
        Shaw said that Corrales once told him, ''Don't worry about me getting knocked out because I'm getting up, and if I can't, you'll have to carry me out.''
        Corrales's survivors include his wife, Michelle; their daughter, Daylia; two brothers; and his parents.
        Corrales was conscious of how the public regarded his skills. Before his last fight, he told Showtime:
        ''I just want to fight the top guys. It's not about the money. You just want to see where you place. The only way you can do that is by fighting the best, and that is what I do.''
      