
        Norman Frank, the public relations executive who in 1966 devised the strategy by which New York City's police union turned back Mayor John V. Lindsay's attempt to create a civilian complaint review board, died Friday near his home in Miami. He was 82.
        The death was announced by his daughter, Dana Frank.
        Mr. Frank, a former television producer who also made a quixotic run for mayor in 1969, was known as ''the voice of the P.B.A.'' -- the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. He was a leading strategist for John Cassese, the union president in the 1960s.
        At a time of racial turmoil in the city, Mayor Lindsay had ordered the establishment of an independent civilian board to examine citizens' complaints about police conduct. Few cities had such boards at the time.
        The union successfully sued to overturn the mayor's order, arguing that imposing civilian authority over police discipline required a public referendum on a City Charter amendment.
        Mr. Frank ''ran a very sophisticated ad campaign'' leading to a two-to-one defeat of the amendment, Thomas Reppetto, former president of the nonprofit Citizens Crime Commission of New York, said in an interview yesterday.
        In his 2002 book, ''NYPD: A City and Its Police'' (Henry Holt), written with James Lardner, Mr. Reppetto described Mr. Frank's strategy for the union's campaign: ''The issue was one of public safety, the public relations man for the union argued. If a cop expected to be second-guessed by a civilian, he might hesitate to act in an emergency, thus placing New Yorkers' lives in jeopardy.''
        The success of that argument, Mr. Reppetto said yesterday, ''demonstrated the power of the P.B.A., and since then mayors have had to negotiate with the union, not just impose changes on the department.'' Mayor Lindsay set up a review board made up of officers and civilian officials of the department. In 1992, however, Mayor David N. Dinkins persuaded the City Council to create an independent review board.
        Mr. Frank was born Norman Joseph Fetrod in Manhattan on Feb. 18, 1925. (He changed his name for professional reasons.) His wife, Joyce Seigenfeld, died in 1994. His daughter is his only immediate survivor.
        After high school, Mr. Frank worked as a clerk at a Manhattan law firm, then entered Michigan State University. But he left college to join the Army Air Corps and saw action in the Pacific during World War II.
        After the war, Mr. Frank worked in advertising, specializing in radio and television commercials. That led to his television career in the 1950s. He was a producer and occasional director of ''Star of the Family,'' a CBS series in which relatives of celebrities were interviewed before performances by their family members.
        He was a producer for ''Wide Wide World,'' a series of documentaries, with Dave Garroway as host, with live remotes from around the country. And he helped produce and occasionally directed ''The Jonathan Winters Show'' on NBC.
        In 1968, when he was considering his eventual bid for the Democratic Party's mayoral nomination, Mr. Frank offered a New York Times reporter his assessment of Mayor Lindsay: ''He's the most popular mayor in the world -- outside of New York.'' Mr. Lindsay was re-elected.
        Correction:  May 19, 2007, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Norman Frank, the spokesman for the New York City Patrolmen's Benevolent Association in the 1960s, misspelled his surname at birth. It was Fetbrod, not Fetrod.
      