
        Thomas Curry, one of two New York City police officers who were seriously wounded by machine-gun fire in 1971 while guarding the Manhattan district attorney's home, died on Monday in the Bronx. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Mary Lou Curry, said.
        Officer Curry and his partner, Nicholas Binetti, were shot outside the home of the district attorney, Frank S. Hogan, on Riverside Drive on May 19, 1971, one of two violent days during a period of open conflict between advocates of black power and the police.
        Dozens of bullets were fired as a blue car drove by, hitting Officer Curry in the face, right shoulder and stomach.
        Two days later, in an attack involving different suspects, two other police officers, Waverly Jones and Joseph Piagentini, were shot to death outside a housing project in Harlem. Eight months later, two other officers, Gregory Foster and Rocco Laurie, were killed by the Black Liberation Army, an offshoot of the Black Panthers, on the Lower East Side.
        A leader of the Black Panther Party, Dhoruba al-Mujahid bin Wahad, was convicted of attempted murder in 1973 in the attack on Officers Curry and Binetti. Mr. Wahad, formerly known as Richard Moore, was sentenced to 25 years to life. But in 1990, his conviction was overturned when a State Supreme Court justice found that prosecutors had not given his lawyers evidence that could have helped in his defense.
        The city paid Mr. Wahad $490,000 in 2000 to settle his civil claim of wrongful conviction, while maintaining that there was no conspiracy to deprive him of his rights and that he had committed the crime.
        In 1975, three members of the Black Liberation Army were convicted of murder in the shootings of Officers Jones and Piagentini.
        Thomas Patrick Curry was born in the Bronx on Sept. 21, 1932. He won a Bronze Star as a corporal in the Army during the Korean War. He joined the Police Department in 1956 and later earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Officer Curry retired from the police force in 1997.
        Besides his wife of 40 years, he is survived by two daughters, Mary Elizabeth Williams, of Floral Park, N.Y., and Kathleen Mangels, of Valhalla, N.Y.; a son, the Rev. Thomas Curry of the Order of St. Benedict; two sisters, Margaret Elder, of East Williston, N.Y., and Alice Cunnelly, of Spokane, Wash.; and five grandchildren.
      