
        Octavio Frias de Oliveira, who built one of Brazil's biggest and most influential media empires, died at his home in São Paulo on Sunday. He was 94.
        The cause was kidney failure, his company, Grupo Folha, said.
        Mr. Frias was the publisher of Folha de São Paulo, Brazil's biggest newspaper. The parent company he managed also controls or partly owns the newspapers Agora and Valor Econômico, the research firm Instituto Datafolha, the publishing house Publifolha, the newspaper distribution company Transfolha, the graphic design company Plural and Brazil's biggest online portal, Universo Online (UOL).
        Mr. Frias bought Folha in 1962 with his business partner Carlos Caldeira Filho. The two men snapped up a number of small newspapers, helping them cut distribution costs, and their love of technology led them to institute a number of technological innovations, like the large-scale use of color offset printing as early as 1967.
        The paper, progressive editorially, was notable for maintaining its independence after Brazil's civilian government was toppled in a military coup in 1964.
        Most memorably, the paper introduced a daring op-ed page in 1976 called Tendências/Debates (Trends/Debates) that allowed two prominent figures to argue the pros and cons of a topical issue. Some of those opinions, along with others voiced in the paper, prompted military leaders to lean on Mr. Frias, but he never shied from criticizing elected leaders from all points of the political spectrum.
        Speaking of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, the president who ruled Brazil from 1995 to 2002, he recalled proudly: ''I heard that Fernando Henrique said, 'There's no point in calling Frias at Folha.' No point at all.''
        That stance paid off. Folha won a reputation as being editorially impartial and in 1986, one year after the military ceded power to a civilian administration, it became the biggest selling newspaper in Brazil.
        In 1996, Grupo Folha created Universo Online, a web portal that grew to become the biggest in Brazil.
        Mr. Frias brought in his sons to help run the business -- Otavio is now the head of the newsroom, and Luís is president of Grupo Folha. Mr. Frias still appeared at editorial meetings until November last year, when he fell at home and had an operation to remove a cranial hematoma.
        Born in Rio de Janeiro on Aug 5, 1912, Mr. Frias moved with his family to São Paulo in 1918. He was the son of a judge; his mother died when he was 7. He left school at 14 when his family had financial difficulties and could no longer pay his tuition. Before buying Folha, he worked for a bank and a real estate company and as a civil servant.
        Besides his sons, he is survived by his wife, Dagmar Frias de Oliveira, and two daughters, Maria Helena, a physician, and Maria Cristina, a columnist for Folha.
      