
        Eugen Weber, the Romanian-born, English-educated American historian who was one of the world's foremost interpreters of modern France and an authority on modern Europe, died Thursday at his home in Los Angeles, where he had taught at U.C.L.A. and was a former dean of its College of Letters and Science. He was 82.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, the university said.
        Mr. Weber's accessible style made him popular among students, historians and the public in the United States as well as in France, where his books on modern French history are considered classics. Over the years, hundreds of thousands of students got their first taste of modern European history from Mr. Weber's best-selling textbooks like ''A Modern History of Europe'' (1971) and ''Europe Since 1715: A Modern History'' (1972).
        And he was a familiar, charming presence to Americans who saw his acclaimed 52-part lecture series, ''The Western Tradition,'' produced by WGBH in Boston for public television in 1989. It became the basis of a video instructional series with companion books that students have used ever since.
        Mr. Weber wrote about French history and taught it in the United States for more than 40 years. He published more than a dozen distinguished books, which have been translated into more than half a dozen languages. He was a professor of modern European history at the University of California at Los Angeles, and his classes were so popular that he became a campus celebrity. A chair there was endowed in his name.
        Mr. Weber was encyclopedic in his depiction of an era, a movement or a social trend, focusing more on the many facets of everyday life than on historical theories. History, he wrote in ''Europe Since 1715,'' was ''not just the epic of collective deeds, but the tissue of the times; not just what happened, but to whom and how; not just wars and politics, the doings of a relatively restricted group, but the way people lived -- humbler and middling people, and the rich as well -- their food, their housing, the warp and woof of their existence.''
        Mr. Weber's work was admired in the country that so fascinated him. Tony Judt, a professor of history at New York University and a leading writer on French history, once observed:
        ''On the whole, the French write their own history and write it with much sophistication. But occasionally they come across a foreigner who does it differently or better, and then, with much fanfare and generosity, they adopt him for their own. Such is the case of Eugen Weber.''
        At least two of Mr. Weber's works have become standard reading in France: ''Action Française: Royalism and Reaction in Twentieth-Century France'' (1962), a history of the royalist movement, which dominated the French right from the Dreyfus Affair until 1940; and ''Peasants Into Frenchmen: The Modernization of Rural France, 1870-1914'' (1976), an account of how a country that was still largely rural, ''inhabited by savages'' and a hodgepodge of cultures was transformed in the half-century after the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71.
        Mr. Weber maintained that before the 20th century, France was largely ''a Parisian political project rather than a national reality.'' Modern French identity, he said, was a relatively recent creation, a product of mass education, conscription and the coming of modern communications. After ''Peasants'' was published, Mr. Judt said, Mr. Weber's thesis became the new orthodoxy.
        Several of Mr. Weber's books explored the development of right-wing nationalism in Europe. To Mr. Weber, nationalism had changed from a humanitarian, Enlightenment-based movement in the early 19th century into an angry, ''tribal'' and ''exclusivist'' movement in the 20th century. Despite its affinities with the historic right, the virulent, xenophobic and radical nationalism of the 20th century, he concluded, was statist and anti-individualistic.
        In ''The Nationalist Revival in France: 1905-1914,'' published in 1959, Mr. Weber traced French right-wing nationalism from its royalist roots during the Third Republic beginning in the 1870s to the fascism of the Vichy regime in World War II.
        Mr. Weber took a pragmatic approach to history. ''Nothing is more concrete than history, nothing less interested in theories or in abstract ideas,'' he once wrote. ''The great historians have fewer ideas about history than amateurs do; they merely have a way of ordering their facts to tell their story. It isn't theories they look for, but information, documents, and ideas about how to find and handle them.''
        Eugen Joseph Weber was born in Bucharest, Romania, on April 24, 1925, the son of Sonia and Emmanuel Weber, an industrialist. At age 12, he was sent to boarding school in Herne Bay, in southeastern England, and later to Ashville College in the Lake District.
        After graduating in 1943, he joined the British Army and was stationed in Belgium, India and occupied Germany. He rose to captain in the King's Own Scottish Borderers, one of Britain's oldest regiments. After his service ended in 1947, he attended Cambridge.
        While at Cambridge, Mr. Weber spent two yearlong interludes in Paris, studying at the Institut d'Études Politiques and teaching English at the suburban Lycée Lakanal. He fell for France, he said, ''just as one falls into love.''
        While in London he met Jacqueline Brument, who was taking classes in art history. They married in 1950. Mr. Weber always said that he wrote for his wife, who is his only immediate survivor.
        Mr. Weber spent a year as a visiting lecturer at U.C.L.A. and decided in 1954 to move permanently to North America. He taught at the University of Alberta in Edmonton and the University of Iowa before rejoining the U.C.L.A. faculty in 1956. The move began a tenure that was to last the rest of his life, interrupted only by visiting professorships and other academic work in France and the United States.
        Mr. Weber helped to build the U.C.L.A. history department into one of the nation's best. He was also dean of social sciences in 1976 and dean of the College of Letters and Sciences from 1977 to 1982.
        Among his other books are ''Paths to the Present: Aspects of European Thought From Romanticism to Existentialism'' (1960); ''Varieties of Fascism: Doctrines of Revolution in the Twentieth Century'' (1964); ''The European Right: A Historical Profile'' (1965), which he edited and wrote with Hans Rogger, a colleague at U.C.L.A.; ''La Fin des Terroirs'' (1983); ''France: Fin de Siècle'' (1986); ''The Hollow Years: France in the 1930s'' (1994); and ''Apocalypses: Prophecies, Cults and Millennial Beliefs Through the Ages'' (1999).
        Mr. Weber was a Fulbright and Guggenheim fellow and in 1977 was decorated with the Ordre National des Palmes Académiques for his contribution to French culture.
        In his introduction to a book of collected essays, ''My France: Politics, Culture, Myth'' (1991), Mr. Weber admitted to having a mind that was ''more like a jumbly hayloft than an orderly library.'' Tireless in pursuit of detail, he delighted in sharing the fruits of a lifetime spent in provincial archives.
        In a review of ''My France'' for The New York Times Book Review, Mr. Judt gave an example of Mr. Weber's feel for France and his ''richly textured sense of the complex otherness of the recent past'' by noting his discussion of why it took ''La Marseillaise'' almost a century to emerge from a Strasbourg drawing room on April 26, 1792, as the battle song of the Rhine Army to become the French national anthem.
        ''Mr. Weber reminds the reader that in 1790 only about three million people could speak French; as late as 1893, about one-quarter of the population of 30 million still had not mastered the national language,'' Mr. Judt wrote. ''Small wonder that it took so long for the 'Marseillaise' to catch on -- many of those trying to learn the words could not understand them.''
        Correction:  May 24, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about the historian Eugen Weber, a leading authority on modern France, referred incorrectly to his book ''La Fin des Terroirs.'' The book (its full title is ''La Fin des Terroirs: La Modernisation de la France Rurale -- 1870-1914'') is a French translation of Mr. Weber's book ''Peasants Into Frenchmen: the Modernization of Rural France -- 1870-1914.'' It is not a separate book.
      