
        Indar Jit Rikhye, a major general in the Indian Army who was a key military adviser to United Nations peacekeepers around the world and then founding president of a research institute devoted to training peacekeepers, died May 21 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 86.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his son Bhalinder L. Rikhye.
        As adviser to Secretaries General Dag Hammarskjold and U Thant at the United Nations from 1957 to 1967, General Rikhye set up or commanded peacekeeping forces in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and the Middle East.
        He oversaw the withdrawal of the United Nations Emergency Force in Gaza and the Sinai in June 1967, when it found itself in the path of the advancing Israel Defense Forces and had all its vehicles wrecked, its communications knocked out and three of its soldiers killed.
        General Rikhye (pronounced RICK-ey) and his staff fled the destroyed headquarters and drove to a nearby beach in four trucks with their tires flattened. He established a link with Cyprus, which relayed messages to New York to ''hasten evacuation because we are not fighting anybody, but are under fire.''
        They succeeded in getting to safety when Maj. Gen. Moshe Dayan, the Israeli defense minister, flew in and provided buses for them to the port of Ashdod.
        General Rikhye also served as U Thant's special representative during the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 and later represented the United Nations in a mission to Cuba to recover the remains of United States Maj. Rudolf Anderson Jr., the U-2 pilot who had been shot down on a reconnaissance flight.
        General Rikhye resigned from the United Nations in 1969, saying that ''the peacekeeping operations of the United Nations are going through a phase of re-examination and restricted activity.''
        He promptly co-founded the International Peace Academy, a nongovernmental institute for research in conflict resolution based in New York. The academy became an unofficial training institute for United Nations peacekeeping forces.
        He remained its president for the next 20 years, and after 1989 he lectured and taught on peacekeeping and peace negotiations at universities and institutes in the United States, Britain and India.
        General Rikhye was born in 1920 in Lahore, now a city in Pakistan, the son of a former medical officer in the British Indian Army. He graduated from the Indian Military Academy in 1939 and was commissioned by King George VI to serve in the 6th Duke of Connaught's Own Lancers, known as the Bengal Lancers.
        He saw service during World War II in the Middle East and Italy and, after India became independent in 1947, he commanded the Royal Deccan Horse in Jammu and Kashmir for four years.
        Besides his son Bhalinder, of New York, his survivors include another son, Ravi, of Takoma Park, Md., both from his first marriage, to Usha Erra Rikhye of Dummerston, Vt.; his wife, Cynthia de Haan Rikhye of Charlottesville; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
        At the International Peace Academy, one of his methods of teaching conflict avoidance involved a simulated clash between two invented countries, which he called Andrenesia and Chinchilla. Officers and diplomats were asked to act out the kind of negotiations that would precede a Security Council resolution.
        ''The simulation shows officers who may command a peacekeeping force the complex political background to their mission,'' he said at the time. ''It gives diplomats a taste of multilateral diplomacy.''
        At one of the sessions, in Vienna in 1988, real world tension intruded on the war game. By the luck of the alphabetical draw, a diplomat and an army colonel from Libya found themselves seated next to two Israelis. Enraged, they got up, walked out and abandoned the course.
        General Rikhye, known throughout his career for combining a diplomatic bent with his military rigor, was unruffled. ''It added a little realism,'' he said.
        Correction:  June 1, 2007, Friday  An obituary on Monday about Indar Jit Rikhye, an Indian general who was a top adviser to United Nations peacekeepers, referred incompletely to the circumstances of the withdrawal overseen by General Rikhye of the United Nations Emergency Force in Gaza and the Sinai in June 1967. While he and some peacekeepers were caught in the path of Israeli forces, the Israelis were not responsible for their expulsion. Egypt had expelled the peacekeepers from Sinai and Gaza in mid-May, which Israel viewed as part of an Egyptian plan for war. General Rikhye -- who was trying to appeal that expulsion -- and some men remained. When Israel pre-emptively attacked Egypt in early June, starting the Six-Day War, the remaining peacekeepers were in their path.
      