
        Isabella Blow, a British fashion editor, aristocrat and aesthete whose gift for identifying and promoting new talent was occasionally overshadowed by her own Surrealist plumage, died yesterday in Gloucestershire, England. She was 48.
        Her death, at a hospital, was reported by Geordie Greig, the editor in chief of Tatler, the British magazine where Ms. Blow was fashion director. No cause was given.
        Among Ms. Blow's many discoveries were the designers Alexander McQueen (she purchased his entire first collection), the Dior designer John Galliano and Jun Takahashi, the eccentric creator behind the label Undercover.
        She was credited with discovering the models Stella Tennant and Sophie Dahl, whom she once characterized as a ''blowup doll with brains.'' And though ''muse'' may be a hackneyed term, it well served Ms. Blow's lifelong relationship to the global guild of hatters, whom she challenged constantly to design something too mad for her to wear.
        Both the couture milliners Stephen Jones and Philip Treacy, a baker's son whose fashion confections are favored by the British royals, were also Ms. Blow's finds.
        ''Isabella was this amazing bright light in a world of increasingly corporate culture,'' said Anna Wintour, the Vogue editor, who hired Ms. Blow in the early 1980s to work as her assistant at British Vogue.
        Ms. Blow became renowned for her sartorial daring. On a given day at the office, Ms. Wintour said, Ms. Blow might turn up dressed as a Greek goddess, Joan of Arc or an Indian maharani. During the ready-to-wear shows in New York, Milan and Paris, she might change clothes as often as seven times a day. She delighted in flouting convention and personal comfort, appearing in one-legged trouser suits, outfits of chain mail or a Japanese designer's version of a burqa.
        ''She was aristocratic, in the old bohemian sense of anything is possible, yet she could talk about fashion with complete rigor in terms of silhouette, shape and historical context,'' said Mr. Greig, the editor of Tatler. ''She was an academic with a punk rocker's anarchic sense.''
        Isabella Delves Broughton was born in 1958 to Helen Shore and Sir Evelyn Delves Broughton. She was educated at the Heathfield School and a secretarial academy and, briefly in the late 1970s, at Columbia University.
        She held jobs variously as a clerk at a scone shop, a housemaid, a fashion assistant, the fashion director at The Sunday Times's Style magazine and a consultant for DuPont Lycra, Lacoste and Swarovski crystals. With her husband, the art dealer Detmar Blow, she was a major promoter of new British art.
        Ms. Blow descended from a family with a 34,000-acre estate, a 14th-century castle in Cheshire and a Latin motto whose translation she seems to have absorbed in her blood: ''Nothing Happens by Being Mute.''
        When gambling debts forced Ms. Blow's grandfather, Sir Jock Delves Broughton, to part with his estates in the 1920s, he immigrated to Kenya and joined the Happy Valley set of alcoholic, aristocratic semi-exiles. There he was accused of the shooting death of the handsome and philandering Lord Erroll. Although tried and acquitted, he killed himself soon after the trial.
        Tragedy and depression were recurrent themes in Ms. Blow's life, friends and colleagues said. She was hospitalized last year with serious injuries resulting from what the press described as a fall. To her friends, Ms. Blow described the episode forthrightly, saying she had leaped onto a busy highway from an overpass.
        ''Thoughts of suicide were a big part of her existence and her persona,'' said the designer Zac Posen. But so was her ambition ''to better people's lives by exposing them to creativity,'' he said.
        This was by no means an ambition whose expression Ms. Blow reserved for the style cognoscenti. ''I have a vivid memory of Isabella on the moors at Hilles,'' said Hamish Bowles, the European editor at large at Vogue, referring to an Arts & Crafts house in Gloucestershire, England, designed in 1913 by the architect grandfather of Ms. Blow's husband.
        For a meeting with the family's land manager there, Ms. Blow selected from her closet a pair of violet satin, high-heeled Manolo Blahniks, a coat made from brilliantly colored opaque plastic bags, and a Stephen Jones hat of cock feathers curled to resemble question marks.
        ''In static, the coat just hung down in limp folds,'' Mr. Bowles said. As its wearer moved, however, the bags inflated, as if some gorgeous, alien apparition had landed in a muddy field.
        Mr. Bowles said: ''This was for a meeting with a man on a tractor. She thought it was absolutely appropriate and picturesque, and that it would catch the breeze on the hills to spectacular effect.''
      