
        Donald M. Ginsberg, a physicist who became a leading expert on the production and functioning of superconductors, died on May 7 at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 73.
        The cause was melanoma, his family said.
        In their various forms, superconductors are used in computers, electrical generators and medical equipment, among other applications. Dr. Ginsberg was widely recognized for his work on superconducting crystals, and in particular for improving the production of a useful metallic crystalline compound called YBCO.
        Beginning in the 1980s, Dr. Ginsberg grew YBCO crystals in his laboratory at the University of Illinois and studied their ability to conduct electricity with great efficiency when heated to high temperatures. Although other scientists had developed the YBCO compound, Dr. Ginsberg established a process that allowed the growth of crystals of exceptional purity. He then distributed the results to fellow researchers at Illinois and institutions worldwide.
        Michael Tinkham, emeritus professor of physics and applied physics at Harvard, said the results of such efforts had made Dr. Ginsberg the world's leading expert on making high-temperature crystalline superconductors.
        Dr. Ginsberg wrote about the subject in ''Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors,'' an influential five-volume series of reference books that he edited in the 1980s and '90s for an audience of physicists, chemists and materials scientists.
        In other work, Dr. Ginsberg studied superconductors made from films of lead, tin and mercury. He also wrote and published often humorous poetry on subjects related to physics and laboratory research.
        Donald Maurice Ginsberg was born in Chicago. He earned his doctorate in physics from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1960.
        He joined the faculty at Illinois in 1959, remained there for his career and was named an emeritus professor of physics in 1996.
        Dr. Ginsberg is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Joli Lasker; a daughter, Dana, of Columbus, Ohio; a son, Mark, of Urbana; and a brother, David, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
        Correction:  May 22, 2007, Tuesday  A headline on Saturday with the obituary of the physicist Donald M. Ginsberg misidentified his area of expertise. It was superconductors, not semiconductors.
      