
        Kawika Kapahulehua, who, in 1976, as the seasoned captain of the first ocean-voyaging canoe to sail from Hawaii to Tahiti in perhaps 600 years battled fierce storms, becalmed seas and a mutiny, died on May 17 in Honolulu. He was 76.
        Ben Finney, the anthropologist who wanted to prove the trip was possible, did not give a cause of death, but said Mr. Kapahulehua had suffered strokes and a failed knee operation.
        The question of how the more than 1,000 islands that constitute Polynesia, scattered over 10 million square miles of the Pacific, were settled has long intrigued scientists. A central debate has been whether fishermen and others washed up on islands accidentally, or whether as accomplished seamen and navigators they purposely sought and settled on them.
        Dr. Finney wanted to prove that good seamen could sail the Hokulea, a 62-foot-long, two-masted vessel that he believed approximated an ancient oceangoing canoe, using only sky and sea to navigate. He chose Mr. Kapahulehua to command the double-hulled boat on the journey of 2,250 nautical miles to Tahiti.
        He seemed a wise choice. He had learned the wisdom of Hawaiian elders as a boy; Hawaiian was his first language, and he could perform traditional chants. He was a master at sailing modern double-hulled catamarans, and had raced them from California to Hawaii. His ways were gentle, his sense of humor understated.
        He also was confident in his judgment. Dr. Finney said, ''Some of the things I suggested, he politely ignored.''
        Nevertheless, 6 of the 15 crew members, all Hawaiians and all militant about their ethnic identity, rebelled against the white organizers shortly after setting off on May 1, 1976. Despite his willingness to differ with Dr. Finney and his superior fluency in Hawaiian, Mr. Kapahulehua also became a target because nonnatives had chosen him. The rebels called him a coconut: brown on the outside, white inside.
        Moreover, the dissidents derided the very mission of going to Tahiti as a scientific experiment. They urged using the canoe as a cultural icon to sail from Hawaiian island to Hawaiian island.
        The protesters refused to work and huddled in a little hut on the deck. Once in Tahiti, after 34 days at sea, they threw punches at Mr. Kapahulehua and threatened to burn the boat. The Hokulea limped back to Hawaii with a completely different, all-Hawaiian crew -- except for the captain and his dog, Hoku.
        Dr. Finney, who did not make the return trip, said the voyage succeeded in demonstrating the possibility of long-distance intentional navigation, though not in proving it had been done by ancient explorers. (It could obviously not pin down how islands were initially discovered, only that it was possible to get to a known one. Archaeologists, genetic researchers and other scientists are also studying Polynesian migration.)
        One certain accomplishment of the voyage was that it avoided violence or tragedy after things became chaotic. Dr. Finney attributes that entirely to Mr. Kapahulehua, who generally took a lenient line.
        In 1978, the next voyage of the Hokulea, also headed toward Tahiti, lasted just six hours before the boat capsized. A crewman, the famous surfer Eddie Aikau, perished paddling for help. Mr. Kapahulehua had been asked neither to be captain, nor to give advice.
        The Hokulea and a sister canoe have since made other long voyages, and have indeed become the triumphant emblem the mutineers imagined. Nearly a dozen other canoes have been built, and a dozen people have been trained as navigators and two dozen as captains.
        The pride goes beyond Hawaii: the flag of French Polynesia boasts a deep-sea voyaging canoe.
        Elia Kapahulehua was born in Hilo, on the island of Hawaii, in 1930. His family soon moved to Niihau , the smallest Hawaiian island, which is a preserve of Hawaiian culture and language by decree of its private owners. There, he heard elders discuss long voyages by their ancestors.
        When Mr. Kapahulehua was 19, he found work on Waikiki Beach crewing on catamarans. Around then, he picked up the name Kawika, or David in Hawaiian.
        In the late 1950s, he met Dr. Finney, who was at Waikiki studying the ancient culture of surfing. They talked about catamarans, sparking Dr. Finney's initial interest.
        Mr. Kapahulehua joined the crew of a catamaran offering dinner cruises with Hawaiian music by the crew. Two passengers, Elizabeth Taylor and Michael Todd, arranged for the sailors-cum-musicians to go to New York to play in a Hawaiian restaurant.
        From there, Mr. Kapahulehua moved to Southern California, where he worked as an airline cargo agent and with the catamaran pioneer Rudy Choy. He crewed on races to Hawaii and learned tricks for sailing against the wind.
        In 1973, Dr. Finney formed the Polynesian Voyaging Society, and worked with experts to build the Hokulea. He hired Mau Piailug from Micronesia to be navigator, because no Polynesian knew the old skills.
        He felt having a Micronesian navigator meant he needed a pureblooded Polynesian, preferably a Hawaiian, as captain. When introduced to Mr. Kapahulehua, he at first did not recognize him as the man had he met years before. The captain thought that was funny.
        Mr. Kapahulehua is survived by his son, David, who lives on Oahu. He went on to teach the Hawaiian language, write several books about its vocabulary and officiate at traditional Hawaiian rites.
        The Hokulea is now sailing near Japan. On the day Mr. Kapahulehua died, a crewman said at a memorial service on the canoe, ''He will always be our first captain, the one who takes us across the long and wide and hard ocean.''
      