
        Anthony M. Brooks, who led a network of saboteurs who delayed German reinforcements for weeks after the Normandy invasion, died on April 19 in London. He was 85.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said M. R. D. Foot, a historian and friend of Mr. Brooks.
        Mr. Brooks was 20 when he parachuted into France in July 1942 as a British undercover agent dispatched to France to aid the anti-Nazi resistance -- part of a special force that Churchill assigned to ''set Europe ablaze.'' He was told it was likely that half the force's members would be killed, but he chose not to carry a gun.
        Before he was 21, Mr. Brooks received the Distinguished Service Order, a medal awarded for exceptional valor. Sabotage by his network of Resistance fighters succeeded in bringing railway transit to a stop in southern France, thereby preventing German troops from moving to the north as Allied forces pressed south after D-Day, on June 6, 1944.
        In a communiqué issued on June 17, 1944, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, supreme commander of the Allied forces in Europe, said the Resistance networks, taken together, had paralyzed rail and road traffic, and interrupted telegraph and telephone communications.
        ''It is neither possible nor desirable to enumerate all the many effective acts of destruction that have been carried out,'' General Eisenhower said. ''However, these multiple and simultaneous cases of sabotage coordinated with the Allied effort have delayed considerably the movement of German reserves to the combat zone.''
        Mr. Brooks's triumph was in hindering the progress of the Second Panzer Division, an armored unit commanded by Heinz Guderian, considered the father of the blitzkrieg, or lightning war. That was accomplished by sabotaging rail cars carrying tanks, and by creating barriers by sabotaging other trains. Every train leaving Marseille for Lyon was derailed at least once.
        Mr. Brooks's network, or circuit, was called Pimento, one of many run by the Special Operations Executive, or the S.O.E., which was started in 1940 as a way to conduct warfare by means other than direct military engagement. Its operations in France were called F Section, and Mr. Brooks was both the youngest and longest-surviving F Section organizer, Anthony Cave Brown wrote in ''Bodyguard of Lies'' (1975). Agents were known by code names, not ranks; Mr. Brooks's was Alphonse.)
        Anthony Morris Brooks was born in Essex, England, on April 4, 1922. He learned in 1945 that his father, Douglas, a businessman, had himself flown clandestine missions in World War I, according to The Independent, a London newspaper. Anthony grew up in France and Switzerland and spoke perfect French.
        In the summer of 1939, he was staying with relatives in France and working in their plaster works. When Britain declared war that September, he tried to join the British forces but was rejected because he was too young, The Telegraph reported. He began working with the Resistance to help endangered people flee occupied France. Tipped off that he would be arrested, he fled to Britain.
        After being rejected by more established spy services as too young, he was hired by the S.O.E., and parachuted into a part of France not yet occupied by Germany. The parachute malfunctioned, and he suffered cracked vertebrae and other injuries, but a farmer nursed him back to health. He was pleased to find that his secret contact, an experienced agent, was an old friend, René Bertholet, who became his mentor.
        Mr. Brooks organized his network, or circuit, into subgroups, none of which knew anything about the others. Thus, the network was able to survive several infiltrations by the Gestapo, according to ''S.O.E. in France,'' written by Mr. Foot (1965). At first, he dispatched volunteers to remove the axle oil from trains and substitute abrasive material. According to Stephen E. Ambrose in ''D-Day, June 6, 1944,'' his use of teenagers for the job was particularly effective. More violent sabotage began after Germany occupied his region.
        Mr. Brooks traveled constantly and used aliases with such convincing documentation that he claimed he used one of the names to vote in postwar French elections, The Telegraph reported. He worked at various jobs, one involving scavenging wheels from destroyed vehicles. That cover allowed him to roam the countryside freely.
        His cleverness showed when he was arrested and had to explain the 72,000 French francs he was carrying to pay members of his circuit that evening. He said he had been lucky with a bet, and ''proved'' it by persuading the Gestapo to call his bookie, who was a circuit member. He said the winnings would pay for the new suit he obviously needed and asked his captors to confirm it with his tailor, another circuit member.
        Kenneth Macksey, in ''The Partisans of Europe'' (1975), wrote that the S.O.E.'s London leadership rewarded Mr. Brooks's success by giving him ''more of the good Bren light machine guns'' in airdrops, while less favored groups got poorer quality submachine guns.
        Mr. Brooks, who is survived by his wife, Lena, went on to various jobs in Britain's espionage services, including stints in Bulgaria, Cyprus and Egypt. He had just finished writing a book about his life.
        After the Germans evacuated Lyon in August 1944, he personally removed explosive charges from bridges over the Rhone and led the first United States Army patrol into the city. He spent the rest of the war evaluating the effects of sabotage by the Resistance.
        Earlier, Mr. Brooks had been in Toulouse on D-Day, when he lifted a glass of white wine for a very early morning drink, Mr. Ambrose wrote.
        ''We never really believed that we would see it,'' Mr. Brooks said. ''I mean liberation. I couldn't believe when I was parachuted into France in 1942 that I'd ever see D-Day.''
        Correction:  May 23, 2007, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Anthony Brooks, a British undercover agent in France in World War II, misidentified a German armored division he sabotaged, and its commander at the time. It was the Second SS Panzer-Division, not the Second Panzer Division. It was commanded by Heinz Lammerding -- not Heinz Guderian, who had been promoted to another job.
        Correction:  May 24, 2007, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Anthony Brooks, a British undercover agent in France in World War II, misidentified a German armored division he sabotaged and its commander at the time. It was the Second SS Panzer-Division, not the Second Panzer Division. It was commanded by Heinz Lammerding, not Heinz Guderian. Because of an editing error, a correction in this space yesterday referred incorrectly to the command Guderian held before a promotion. It was the Second Panzer Division -- not the Second SS Panzer Division, which he never commanded.
      