
        Russell W. Kruse, whose sonorous voice auctioned off everything from funeral parlors to castles, but who achieved fame for thinking up and building the business of auctioning classic cars, including ones owned by the pope and Al Capone, died Friday, in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 85.
        The cause was a stroke, his son Dean said.
        Mr. Kruse became an auctioneer for the least exalted of reasons: his farm was flooded out two years in a row.
        He then went to a two-week school to learn to be an auctioneer, and around two decades later, in 1971, conceived the idea of selling classic automobiles at an auction. The result was Kruse International, which now holds 150 antique automobile auctions all over the world, selling more than $200 million worth of cars annually.
        These have included Greta Garbo's 1933 Duesenberg Victoria, which Kruse sold three times at ever higher prices; a bulletproof 1944 Mercedes-Benz 770K used by the Nazi general Hermann Göring; John Lennon's 1956 Bentley and a Batmobile or two.
        And cars are not even Kruse's biggest business: its auctions of oil field equipment produce nearly $300 million a year and its real estate business more than $200 million. The company became so attractive that ITT bought it in 1975 and owned it for six years, before the Kruse family bought it back. EBay bought it in 1999 and then sold it back to the family in 2003, when it decided to concentrate on online auctions.
        But classic cars are Kruse's most visible and profitable line. Kruse claims to be the first to sell an antique car for more than $100,000, and also the first to sell one for more than $1 million. In 2004 it got $242,000 for a souped-up 1970 Mustang.
        Russell Wayne Kruse was born in his German-immigrant parents' farmhouse south of Auburn, Ind., in 1922 and was second in his high school class. He became a tenant farmer on 400 acres of level dirt along the Wabash River, going deep into debt to finance the operation. In the early 1950s, the river flooded, and the fish he caught with a pitchfork on what had been a cornfield did not pay the bills. The same thing happened the next year.
        He and his wife, the former Luella Boger, had seven children, all of whom he, a no-nonsense sort, would spank on principle if he thought they needed it. But he needed a good income to raise them, and the auction business eventually came to the rescue.
        Mrs. Kruse died in 2000. Mr. Kruse is survived by four of their sons, Dean, David and Dennis, of Auburn, and Daniel, of San Antonio; a stepson, Kevin of Lafayette, Ind.; his daughters Diann Kruse Ferris, of Vernon, Utah, and Debbie Kruse Shoaff, of Leo, Ind.; 22 grandchildren, three step-grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren.
        He is also survived by his wife, Lyubov Koutsova, whom he picked from a catalog of potential Russian brides and met in St. Petersburg.
        In the dark early days for Mr. Kruse, his father-in-law, Lester Boger, pointed out that his voice was good enough to make him a regular soloist at funerals and weddings. Mr. Boger had worked as a clerk at auctions, and thought his son-in-law might be a good auctioneer. Mr. Kruse enrolled in the Reppert School of Auctioneering in Decatur, Ind. (It is now in Auburn and is the property of the Kruse family.)
        He quickly developed the most necessary skill of an auctioneer, clearly enunciating bids, then filling in the space between with machine-gunned syllables. He started as an independent auctioneer, handling farm sales, machine shop liquidations and auctions of household goods.
        Real estate auctions were most common, but unusual items were no problem. He auctioned off the contents of a funeral home, including coffins and embalming fluid. He auctioned off a 750-foot-deep hole in the ground to a garbage company looking for a disposal site.
        In 1971, the Auburn Chamber of Commerce asked him if he would help raise money for its annual classic-car show honoring the automotive companies who once manufactured there, including Duesenberg. Mr. Kruse suggested auctioning off some of the antique cars, many of which were for sale anyway.
        Some 17,000 people came. A man bid $61,000 for a Duesenberg, but the seller rejected him. NBC News reported that an offer of $61,000 for a used car was turned down, and the Auburn event was on its way to celebrity.
        It signified the beginning of an auction market for classic cars, and put the Auburn festival on the national map. Along with similar festivals in places like Pebble Beach, where Kruse also conducts an auction, it became a major spectator attraction as well as an automotive trading post.
        As the company grew, Mr. Kruse decided he preferred to stay at home, rather than travel. Dean is now company president, and Dean's wife, Kristin, is chief operating officer.
        Russell Kruse was known for loquacity, particularly talking up the value of auction items. He liked to point out that Rembrandt paintings increased in value to $50 million over 350 years, so why would a fine old Packard not do the same thing?
        He was equally famous for singing, ''Back Home Again in Indiana'' before every auction, even if he was not in Indiana. At his funeral yesterday, a recording of his rendition of the song was played.
      