
        Elliott P. Skinner, a former United States ambassador to the Republic of Upper Volta, the West African nation now known as Burkina Faso, and a former chairman of the anthropology department at Columbia University, died April 1 at his home in Washington. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Gwendolyn Mikell, director of African studies at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University.
        Dr. Skinner was a professor at Columbia from 1954 to 1994 and was named chairman of the anthropology department in 1972, becoming the first African-American department chairman in the university's history. In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him ambassador to Upper Volta, a post he held until 1969.
        Dr. Mikell said her husband, the author of 12 books, was particularly concerned that United States foreign policy ''be informed by accurate knowledge of Africa,'' and that African-Americans contributed to the formation of those policies. Among Dr. Skinner's books are ''The Mossi of Upper Volta'' (Stanford University Press, 1964) and ''African-Americans and United States Policy Toward Africa 1850-1924'' (Howard University Press, 1992).
        Elliott Percival Skinner was born in Port of Spain, Trinidad, on June 20, 1924. He came to the United States in 1943 and enlisted in the Army a month later. His military service, including combat in France, allowed him to become an American citizen.
        He graduated from New York University in 1951. He earned a master's degree at Columbia a year later and his doctorate there in 1955. For two years, he lived in West Africa, where he learned Mossi, the language of the Upper Volta region.
        Dr. Skinner and his first wife, Thelma, divorced in 1977.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Mikell, Dr. Skinner is survived by two daughters, Gale Holland of Spring Valley, N.Y., and Luce Remy of Washington; three sons, Victor, of Manhattan, Sagha, of Yellow Springs, Ohio, and Touray, of Freehold, N.J.; two sisters, Patricia Smith of Wichita, Kan., and Bernice Walcott of Caracas, Venezuela; two brothers, Robert, of San Francisco, and Morris, of Brooklyn; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      