
        Mary Scheier, a pioneer of the modern studio pottery movement known for the lightness of her forms, died on May 14 in Green Valley, Ariz. She was 99 and had lived in Green Valley for many years.
        Her death was announced by Susan Strickler, a friend and the director of the Currier Museum of Art, which exhibits the personal collection of Ms. Scheier and her husband, Edwin.
        Ms. Scheier was able to throw very thin yet utilitarian pots, which she complemented with simple glazes, thus enhancing the elegant vessels for which she was famous. At the beginning of her career, in the 1930s, Mr. Scheier invented the glazes, and though the couple did not always work on the same pieces, they worked side by side up until Ms. Scheier's death.
        She was the director of federally sponsored art centers in Big Stone Gap and Abingdon, Va., when she met her husband in 1937. They married that August and traveled the country as puppeteers until 1939, when they settled in Glade Spring, Va., and set up their first studio.
        The couple made functional pottery and small sculptures out of local clays that they found and dug out themselves, as opposed to ordering refined clay from a laboratory. Ms. Scheier would use this clay to create, among other things, pieces that resembled pottery from the Sung dynasty, an era she admired.
        Mary Goldsmith was born in Salem, Va., and moved to New York City in 1925, with a little nudging from an aunt there. She studied art at the Art Students League, the Grand Central School of Art and the New York School of Fine and Applied Arts. After a brief stint in Paris, where she worked in advertising, she moved back to New York and finally back to Virginia, where she met her husband.
        In 1940 the couple moved to Durham, N.H., where they both taught at the University of New Hampshire until 1968, when they moved to Oaxaca, Mexico. By 1978 they had moved to Green Valley, where Ms. Scheier was to spend the rest of her life. Mr. Scheier survives her.
        Ms. Scheier's works are currently on display at museums around the country, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the American Craft Museum and the University of New Hampshire Special Collections.
      