
        Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1991 for studying the boundary lines between order and disorder in materials like liquid crystals and polymers, died Friday in Orsay, a Paris suburb. He was 74.
        His death was reported by the newspaper Le Monde, which cited his family but did not give a cause.
        Discovered in the late 19th century, liquid crystals are now common in computer displays and flat-screen televisions. They behave in a paradoxical way, flowing like liquid as their molecules line up in the same direction as those in a solid crystal.
        Dr. de Gennes did not invent or build liquid crystal displays, or L.C.D.'s, but instead answered fundamental questions of how they behave. Working on a wide range of topics, he was able to take solutions from one field of physics and show by analogy how they could solve entirely different problems.
        For example, he showed how the equations governing superconductors -- materials that carry electricity with no resistance -- could be applied to liquid crystals, even though they have very different physical compositions.
        ''Only few people have sufficiently deep insight and sufficient overview to carry out this process,'' Prof. Ingvar Lindgren of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said at the Nobel presentation ceremony. ''De Gennes is definitely one of them.''
        Dr. de Gennes also worked out theory describing the tangling of long, spaghetti-like molecules known as polymers, this time drawing on knowledge from magnetism.
        Together with other scientists, Dr. de Gennes ''provided the framework of how you understand the funny mechanical properties of polymers,'' said Philip A. Pincus, a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara. ''That's very important for how we make plastics.''
        Later, Dr. de Gennes worked on the dynamics of wet and sticky surfaces.
        ''He's clearly one of the great scientists of the end of the 20th century,'' said Robert B. Meyer, a professor of physics at Brandeis University.
        Born in Paris on Oct. 24, 1932, Pierre-Gilles de Gennes graduated from École Normale Supérieure in Paris. He worked as a research engineer at the French Atomic Energy Commission before doing post-doctoral research at the University of California, Berkeley, followed by 27 months in the French Navy.
        In 1961, Dr. de Gennes became a professor of solid state physics at the University of Paris in Orsay, where he first studied superconductors before moving into what was then a scientific backwater, liquid crystals. ''His leadership brought in a lot of good people,'' Dr. Meyer said. ''The fundamental science just exploded after his working in the field.''
        Dr. de Gennes later became a professor of physics at Collège de France and director of École Supérieure de Physique et de Chimie Industrielles.
        His survivors include his wife, Anne-Marie, and seven children.
        After winning the Nobel Prize, Dr. de Gennes visited about 200 high schools to give talks to students about science and innovation. He also appeared regularly on talk shows. ''When he walked down the street in Paris, people would recognize him,'' Dr. Pincus said.
        In 1997, Dr. de Gennes even appeared briefly in a film about Pierre and Marie Curie.
        But at the scientific pinnacle, Dr. de Gennes deprecatingly played down his accomplishments.
        ''This is the first and probably the last time in my life where I have dinner with queens and princesses,'' he said in a short speech at the Nobel Prize banquet in 1991. ''I am worried. I suspect that with the chimes of midnight I will be turned into a pumpkin.''
      