
        Stanley Holden, whose Chaplinesque blend of wistfulness and wit made him one of the finest character dancers in Britain's Royal Ballet before he settled in Los Angeles and became one of the area's most popular ballet teachers, died on Friday in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of heart problems and colon cancer, Mimi Stabile, Mr. Holden's stepdaughter, said, according to The Associated Press.
        London born and a member of Sadler's Wells Ballet, as the Royal Ballet was called when he joined it at 16 in 1944, Mr. Holden left a lasting imprint on audiences on both sides of the Atlantic as Widow Simone, the irascible but loving mother in Frederick Ashton's 1960 ''Fille Mal Gardée.''
        Yet after retiring from the Royal in 1969, Mr. Holden also felt happily at home in California. He was invited there in 1970 to head a projected dance academy at the recently opened Los Angeles Music Center. When those plans fell through, he opened the Stanley Holden Dance Center, attracting students as diverse as Ron Reagan (President Reagan's son) and Mary Tyler Moore as well as local pupils and visiting stars from American Ballet Theater. The center closed in 2001, and Mr. Holden then taught in Agoura Hills. In 1989, he choreographed ''Dmitri,'' based on a libretto by Woody Allen, for the Los Angeles Chamber Ballet.
        Mr. Holden also appeared as a guest artist with American companies. When the Joffrey Ballet staged ''La Fille Mal Gardée'' in 1986 and 1987, Mr. Holden virtually stole the show with his clog dance and detailed characterization. Familiar with the ''Dame'' tradition of English pantomime, he recreated his original role as a widow determined to wed her daughter to a wealthy suitor. With his clever asides, Mr. Holden suggested through gesture and timing that the widow was not as gullible as she pretended.
        That Mr. Holden had the ability to touch the heart was also obvious in other roles, especially that of Dr. Coppelius, the toymaker whose own heart is broken in ''Coppélia.'' Mr. Holden appeared in the role with American companies, including the Pennsylvania Ballet.
        Born Stanley Waller on Jan. 27, 1928, he began a distinguished career in roles that included an urchin in Robert Helpmann's ''Miracle in the Gorbals'' and Puss in Boots in Sadler's Wells's 1946 signature production of ''The Sleeping Beauty.'' Mr. Holden transferred to Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, the organization's second company. Here he stood out in John Cranko's early ballets, including ''Pineapple Poll'' and ''Harlequin in April'' (1951), with Mr. Holden as a sad Pierrot. He returned to the Royal Ballet as a soloist in 1957, and Ashton used him notably in his autumnal 1968 classic ''Enigma Variations.''
        In addition to Ms. Stabile, Mr. Holden is survived by his wife, Judy Holden, of Thousand Oaks; three children from a former marriage, Marcelle, Janine and Mark, all of London; eight grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      