
        Denis G. Kuhn, an architect who oversaw many major restoration and reuse projects in New York City, including the transformation of the Alexander Hamilton Custom House into the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian and the conversion of the old Police Department headquarters in Little Italy into elegant apartments, died on May 10 in the Dominican Republic while touring a project site. He was 65 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, his firm, Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects, announced.
        The Custom House, a Beaux-Arts building at Bowling Green on the southern tip of Manhattan, was Mr. Kuhn's most notable work. Designed in 1900 by Cass Gilbert, it had been empty since the mid-1970s when Mr. Kuhn began restoring its elaborate facade and grand, elliptical rotunda and reconfiguring its interior as a museum.
        The building, which also houses the Federal Bankruptcy Court, reopened in 1994. Its Diker Pavilion, which opened last fall, was also one of Mr. Kuhn's projects.
        Before working on the Custom House, Mr. Kuhn had revived another downtown landmark, the police headquarters, which had fallen into disuse and been abandoned in 1973. Mr. Kuhn's restoration of that 1909 Beaux-Arts palace resulted in what The New York Times architecture critic Paul Goldberger, writing in 1990, called ''probably the grandest Manhattan apartment residence south of the Dakota.''
        Mr. Goldberger praised Mr. Kuhn's work as ''one of the rare renovations that leave a landmark building better off than it was before,'' explaining that ''everything added to the interior is sympathetic to the original building, but little of it replicates the original architecture.''
        Denis Glen Kuhn, whose first name is pronounced Dennis, was born on Feb. 17, 1942, in Queens. He received a bachelor's degree in architecture from Pratt Institute in 1964 and joined Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Whitelaw in 1979. He was elected a fellow of the American Institute of Architects in 1993, and his name was added to the firm's four years later.
        He is survived by his wife, Gudrun, of Manhasset; his sons Chris, of Larchmont, N.Y., and Daniel, of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; his daughter, Rebekka Kuhn, of New Haven; his mother, Mildred, of Woodside, Queens; and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Kuhn's work was not limited to Manhattan or New York City. In 1987 he transformed a dreary 1950s junior high school in Flushing, Queens, into a much-admired center for the law school of the City University of New York.
        In the late 1990s Mr. Kuhn restored the historic Union Station in Kansas City, Mo., adding a new wing to house Science City, an interactive museum and theme park. At about the same time he designed Hollywood and Highland, the huge entertainment and retail development in Los Angeles that includes the Kodak Theater, designed by David Rockwell, which is home of the Academy Awards ceremony.
        Not all Mr. Kuhn's projects look to the past. Earlier this year his firm received an award from the American Institute of Architects for his master plan for a proposed suburban community in Gaithersburg, Md., outside Washington.
        The institute praised Mr. Kuhn's blueprint for the development -- which would include residences, stores, a high school and parks -- as ''an excellent model to be used for the redevelopment of worn suburban sprawl'' and a strategy ''for the creation of the 21st-century sustainable city.''
        Correction:  May 22, 2007, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Denis G. Kuhn, an architect and preservationist, gave an erroneous credit for the master plan for a proposed suburban community in Gaithersburg, Md. The project was overseen by Matthew J. Bell of Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects, not by Mr. Kuhn. The obituary also misstated the reopening date of the Alexander Hamilton Custom House on Bowling Green in Lower Manhattan, vacated in the 1970s, which Mr. Kuhn turned into the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian. The building reopened in 1987, when the Federal Bankruptcy Court moved into two floors -- not in 1994, when the museum opened on three additional floors.
      