
        Lesley Blanch, an English writer and traveler best known for ''The Wilder Shores of Love,'' a biography of four 19th-century women who cast aside convention to seek adventure and romance in the East, died on Monday in Menton, in the South of France. She was 102 and had lived in Menton for many years.
        The death was confirmed by Georgia de Chamberet, one of Ms. Blanch's literary executors. No immediate family members survive.
        Published in 1954, ''The Wilder Shores of Love'' (Simon & Schuster) was Ms. Blanch's first book. It told the stories of Isabel Burton, the wife and sometime traveling companion of the explorer Richard Burton; Jane Digby, the multiple-married beauty who forsook European society to become the wife of a Bedouin chieftain; Aimée Dubucq de Rivery, a Frenchwoman who was captured by pirates and became a member of the Turkish sultan's harem; and Isabelle Eberhardt, a Swiss woman who dressed as a man and lived among the Arabs of Algeria.
        Reviewing ''The Wilder Shores of Love'' in The New York Times, Orville Prescott wrote, ''In spite of some distressing stylistic excesses, this is a good and an exuberantly colorful book.''
        Ms. Blanch's other well-known books include ''The Sabres of Paradise'' (Murray, 1960), a life of Imam Shamyl, a 19th-century Muslim leader in the Caucasus who fought off Russian encroachment there; and ''Pierre Loti'' (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1983), a biography of the French travel and adventure writer.
        As obsessed with the East as the women she wrote about had been, Ms. Blanch spent decades traveling throughout the Soviet Union, Central Asia and the Middle East. To the end of her life, she was apt to greet visitors while attired in a caftan and turban (or perhaps leopardskin trousers), draped in ethnic jewelry.
        The primary difference between Ms. Blanch and her subjects was this: Because she had the luck to have been born in the 20th century -- though only just -- she could do the same things they did with less chance of causing a scandal. It is not certain, however, that a scandal would have troubled Ms. Blanch much.
        Trained as a painter, Ms. Blanch honed many skills, from book illustration to commercial art to magazine editing to food writing. She traveled extensively, riding the Trans-Siberian Railway; hitchhiking alone through Afghanistan; traveling with Gypsies in Bulgaria; crossing the sands of the Sahara; visiting Oman and Outer Mongolia as well as Egypt, India, Iran, Turkey, the Balkans, Central America and Mexico.
        ''Did I have adventures with foreign men?'' Ms. Blanch said in an interview with The Times of London on the occasion of her 100th birthday. ''I did many times because I like them.''
        She seemed to know everyone: Charles Boyer, Truman Capote, Gary Cooper, George Cukor, Aldous Huxley, Sophia Loren, Carson McCullers, André Malraux, Nancy Mitford, Jean Seberg (an association she would come to regret), David O. Selznick, the Shahbanou of Iran, Wallis Warfield Simpson, Igor Stravinsky and Rebecca West.
        Ms. Blanch was said to have been the inspiration for Lady L., the title character of the 1959 novel by the Lithuanian-born French writer Romain Gary. (It seems probable: Mr. Gary was married to her when he wrote it.) The novel became a film in 1965, starring Ms. Loren.
        Lesley Blanch was born in London on June 6, 1904, to a cultured if not entirely wealthy family.
        ''My father was a very clever and cultivated man, but he didn't do anything,'' Ms. Blanch said in an oral history collected in ''Looking Back: A Panoramic View of a Literary Age by the Grandes Dames of European Letters'' (British American Publishing, 1991), by Shusha Guppy. ''He spent his time in museums and galleries, discussing things like Chinese porcelain and early oak furniture.''
        Educated largely at home, Ms. Blanch later studied painting at the Slade School of Fine Art. In the late 1930s and early '40s, she was the features editor for British Vogue.
        Her fascination with travel began in childhood, with the visits of an enigmatic Russian friend of the family. (In her writings, Ms. Blanch refers to him simply as the Traveller.) When she was young, the Traveller would appear, swathed in furs, bearing wondrous gifts: Russian icons and Fabergé eggs. When she was a teenager, he became her lover, seducing her, depending on which account one reads, either in a French graveyard or on the Trans-Siberian Railway. Shortly before she was to marry him, the Traveller vanished, but Ms. Blanch never lost her taste for all things Eastern.
        After an early marriage, or possibly two, that ended in divorce, Ms. Blanch married Mr. Gary in 1945. Mr. Gary was also a member of the French diplomatic service, and she followed him around the world to a series of postings, culminating in Hollywood, when he was stationed in California. There, they met Ms. Seberg, and in 1962 Mr. Gary divorced Ms. Blanch to marry her. (That marriage, too, ended in divorce; both Ms. Seberg and Mr. Gary later committed suicide.)
        Ms. Blanch returned to Paris and eventually settled in Menton, on the French-Italian border. She continued to write. Among her other books are ''From Wilder Shores: The Tables of My Travels'' (Murray, 1989); ''Journey Into the Mind's Eye: Fragments of an Autobiography'' (Collins, 1968); and a novel, ''The Nine-Tiger Man'' (Atheneum, 1965).
        She also continued to travel. In the interview with The Times of London when she turned 100, Ms. Blanch described the two forces that had spurred her ceaseless wanderings. ''I wanted to be moving towards color'' was the first.
        The second was her persistent longing to return to a simpler, bygone life. As she explained, ''I despise all I see of progress, except anesthetics.''
      