
        William Peters, a journalist and award-winning documentary film producer who chronicled American race relations during the turbulent years of the mid-20th century, died on Sunday in Boulder, Colo. He was 85. A resident of Lafayette, Colo., Mr. Peters had lived for many years in Guilford, Conn.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his daughter Jennifer Peters Johnson said.
        Mr. Peters was best known for the documentary ''A Class Divided,'' which he produced, directed and co-wrote. Originally broadcast on PBS's ''Frontline'' in 1985, it told the story of Jane Elliott, a small-town Iowa schoolteacher whose stark, pragmatic lesson about racial discrimination -- to prove a point, she treated her students differently according to the color of their eyes -- was deeply affecting, and deeply divisive.
        ''A Class Divided'' won an Emmy Award for outstanding informational, cultural or historical programming.
        Four of Mr. Peters's other films earned George Foster Peabody Awards: ''Storm Over the Supreme Court'' (CBS, 1963); ''Africa'' (ABC, 1967); ''Eye of the Storm'' (ABC, 1970), an early documentary about the Jane Elliott story; and ''Suddenly an Eagle'' (ABC, 1976), about the ideological roots of the American Revolution.
        William Ernest Peters Jr. was born in San Francisco on July 30, 1921. He earned a bachelor's degree in English from Northwestern University in 1947. (While there, Mr. Peters, who was white, resigned from his fraternity in protest after it refused to admit a black student.) During World War II, he was a pilot with the Army Air Force.
        After working in public relations Mr. Peters began a career as a freelance journalist. Among his books are ''The Southern Temper'' (Doubleday, 1959); ''For Us, the Living'' (Doubleday, 1967), written with Myrlie Evers, about her husband, the slain civil-rights leaders Medgar Evers; and ''A Class Divided'' (Doubleday, 1971), a companion volume to ''Eye of the Storm.''
        In 1962 Mr. Peters joined CBS Reports as a specialist in race relations; he later moved to ABC News. From 1982 to 1989 he was the director of Yale Films, a production company then associated with Yale University. There, he made ''A Class Divided'' (written with Charlie Cobb), shown on ''Frontline'' on March 26, 1985.
        ''A Class Divided'' revisited Jane Elliott more than a decade after her original experiment. In 1968, after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., Ms. Elliott, a third-grade teacher in Riceville, Iowa, had segregated her pupils -- all white -- by eye color. On the first day of the experiment, she praised the blue-eyed children lavishly, giving them extra privileges, while ridiculing the brown-eyed children. The next day, the roles were reversed.
        For ''A Class Divided,'' Mr. Peters chronicled a reunion of Ms. Elliott and her students in the mid-80s. The students, now young men and women, spoke of how her experiment had affected their lives. (The documentary, among the most requested from the ''Frontline'' archives, can be viewed online at pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/divided.)
        Mr. Peters's first marriage, to Ann Miller, ended in divorce, as did his second, to Muriel Neff, who worked with him on ''Eye of the Storm.'' His third wife, the former Helene White, died in 2000. Besides his daughter Jennifer, of Boulder, Mr. Peters is survived by three other children from his first marriage, Geoffrey, of Vienna, Va.; Suzanne Peters Payne of Lafayette, Colo.; and Gretchen Peters of Nashville; a brother, Taylor, of Point Reyes, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
        His other books include ''A More Perfect Union'' (Crown, 1987), about the Constitution; and ''A Class Divided: Then and Now'' (Yale University, 1987), an updated edition that chronicles what happened to Jane Elliott and her students.
      