
        Sam Kagel, a mediator and arbitrator whose career settling labor disputes ranged from the rowdy San Francisco docks of the 1930s to the N.F.L. fields of the early 1980s, died on May 21 in San Francisco. He was 98.
        His son, John, announced the death.
        In 1982, a strike by National Football League players was in its 22nd day when they and the league agreed to appoint Mr. Kagel as mediator. He brought experience from thousands of labor disputes, a salty sense of humor and a proven readiness to stalk out of stalled negotiations. The players and the team owners were miles apart, and feared that the season and the Super Bowl would be canceled.
        After Mr. Kagel's return from one of several dramatic exits from the bargaining table, Theodore Kheel, a mediation expert and a former counsel to the N.F.L., said in an interview with The New York Times:
        ''Sam Kagel exposed both sides to the most severe pressure. They were both out in the cold. There they were with the season rapidly dwindling. Now they've been forced back together again. Sam is in a stronger position now.''
        The season was saved after a 57-day strike, although only nine games were played instead of 16. The owners were perceived to have won because the settlement provided no more money in salaries than they had offered at the talks' beginning. They also successfully resisted a union-controlled salary fund and a plan to give the union a fixed percentage of league revenues.
        Players won, among other things, the right to have their salaries made public, giving them more bargaining power. The agreement set the framework for the football industry: higher salaries, but without the guarantees prevalent in other professional sports.
        In the football talks, which were held in Hunt Valley, Md., and later in New York, Mr. Kagel practiced a technique he christened ''med-arb,'' in which he projected some of the authority he had in personally deciding arbitration cases, his specialty, to persuade parties to agree in mediation cases. In a book he wrote with Kathy Kelly in 1990, ''The Anatomy of Mediation: What Makes It Work,'' he described the mediator as a third negotiator who is ''neutral, but not neutered.''
        As an independent arbitrator in other football disputes, Mr. Kagel ruled in 1986 against the N.F.L.'s demand that players submit to drug tests that were not required in the 1982 contract. In 2000, after running back Barry Sanders of the Detroit Lions abruptly retired, Mr. Kagel ordered him to pay $1.83 million of an $11 million signing bonus for each year he did not play.
        As an independent arbitrator and mediator, Mr. Kagel handled strikes involving newspapers, nurses, airline pilots, longshoremen, transit workers and others. In concentrated, protracted talks, he was renowned for skipping meals and even visits to the bathroom as he sat at the bargaining table.
        He wrote in his book that a good mediator never mentions that he might have made a mistake. ''A mediator has to know how to keep secrets!'' he wrote.
        In 1974, after the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union struck, Mr. Kagel was called in by the union and the association representing ship owners. He wrote on a piece of paper, ''Memorandum of Understanding,'' and gave it to Ed Flynn, the association president.
        ''What's that?'' Mr. Flynn said. Mr. Kagel replied: ''An agreement to end the strike. Sign it.'' He then handed the note to Harry Bridges, the union president, and told him to sign it.
        ''Then you can go on talking,'' he said. ''I'm hungry and I need a drink.''
        The two signed and, indeed, kept talking. Union members went to work the next day.
        Sam Kagel was born in San Francisco on Jan. 24, 1909, and grew up in Oakland, where he helped out his impoverished family by selling neckties and unloading watermelons.
        He graduated with a degree in labor economics from the University of California, Berkeley, began work on a doctorate and advised labor unions. In 1934, he helped organize a waterfront strike that turned bloody and resulted in a general strike in San Francisco. During World War II, he worked with a federal agency mobilizing workers in war industries.
        He then went to Berkeley's law school and earned a degree at age 40. He taught labor law there for 17 years. In 1948, he was appointed chief arbitrator for the longshoremen's union and the employers' group, a post he held until 2002. The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service appointed him to many jobs, including the football strike.
        In 1968, he resolved a newspaper strike in San Francisco by persuading all 15 unions to agree to a coordinated settlement, even though most had contracts with months to run.
        Mr. Kagel married Sophia Hornstein in 1933. They separated in 1971, and she died in 2002. He is survived by their sons, John, of Palo Alto, and Peter, of San Francisco; their daughter, Katharine Kagel, of Santa Fe, N. M., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. He is also survived by his wife, Jeanne Ames.
        John Kagel, who was his father's partner in a law firm specializing in arbitration, said in 1982 that his father had an almost visceral instinct for getting to the core of a dispute. ''It's like a third baseman knowing by the crack of the bat exactly where the ball is going,'' he said.
      