
        Donald P. Lay, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit who rigorously defended the rights of women, Native Americans and convicts during his 40 years on the bench, died Sunday at his home in North Oaks, Minn. He was 80.
        The death was announced by the Eighth Circuit, which includes Arkansas, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. No cause was given.
        Judge Lay was a member of the Eighth Circuit from 1966 until last year and was its chief judge from 1980 to 1982. He wrote more than 2,000 opinions and concurrences but also several notable dissents that were eventually upheld by the Supreme Court. One of his decisions, in a case involving the harassment of women at a mine in northern Minnesota, was the subject of the 2005 movie ''North Country.''
        In an interview yesterday, Judge Robert W. Pratt, chief judge of the Southern District of Iowa, part of the Eighth Circuit, said Judge Lay was ''among the last of the unapologetic liberals who believed deeply in the Warren Court revolution and saw the federal courts as the protector of civil and equal rights.'' He was also, Judge Pratt said, ''a bulwark against efforts to repeal or reform habeas corpus,'' the right of prisoners to challenge their convictions.
        Thomas Boyd, a former law clerk for Judge Lay, said that Judge Lay had protected the rights ''of even the most reviled members of our society'' and that ''one of the dissents he was most proud of was in Morrissey v. Brewer.''
        In that 1971 case, the Eighth Circuit denied a habeas corpus petition by two prisoners, holding that their rights had not been violated when the Iowa State Parole Board revoked their paroles without hearings. Judge Lay's dissent was upheld by the Supreme Court, with Chief Justice Warren E. Burger writing that the ''liberty'' of a parolee ''is valuable and must be seen as within the protection of the 14th Amendment.''
        The Supreme Court also upheld a dissent by Judge Lay in a 1983 case, Jaycees v. McClure. The Jaycees, a nonprofit organization that encouraged young men to engage in civic activities, had challenged a Minnesota order that they accept women as members. A federal district court upheld the order, but the Eighth Circuit reversed that ruling. In his dissent, Judge Lay said excluding women was based on an outdated rationale that ''relegated women to a status inferior to that of men.'' A year later, the Supreme Court agreed.
        In 1997, Judge Lay wrote the majority opinion in Mille Lacs Band of Chippewa Indians v. Minnesota, which upheld the tribe's rights to hunt and fish on land in central Minnesota to which it had been granted treaty rights in 1837. The state appealed that decision, but the Supreme Court ruled that the Chippewa were entitled to harvest up to half the fish and game on the land.
        Donald Pomeroy Lay was born in Princeton, Ill., on Aug. 24, 1926. He attended the United States Naval Academy in the mid-1940s, but his plans to serve in the military ended when he suffered a back injury while playing for the academy's football team. He graduated from the University of Iowa in 1949 and received his law degree there two years later.
        Judge Lay is survived by his wife of 57 years, Miriam; five daughters, Catherine Lay, Betsy Lay, Susan Lay, Cindy Elston and Debbie Ford; and 10 grandchildren.
        Mr. Lay was a trial lawyer in Milwaukee and Omaha for two decades before he was appointed to the Eighth Circuit bench. At 39, he was the second youngest judge ever appointed to that bench. (William Howard Taft was 34 when he was appointed in 1892.)
        Perhaps Judge Lay's most influential opinion came in Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co., which stemmed from a 1997 class-action suit brought by women working at a company mine. The women said they had been subjected to obscenities, stalking and other forms of sexual harassment for more than 20 years.
        In his decision, Judge Lay wrote: ''It should be obvious that the callous pattern and practice of sexual harassment engaged in by Eveleth Mines inevitably destroyed the self-esteem of the working women exposed to it. The humiliation and degradation suffered by these women is irreparable.''
        The ruling was hailed as precedent-setting in a book by Clara Bingham and Laura Leedy Gansler, ''Class Action: The Story of Lois Jenson and the Landmark Case That Changed Sexual Harassment Law'' (Doubleday, 2002).
        ''Jenson v. Eveleth did not eradicate sexual harassment in the workplace,'' the authors said. ''But it made corporate America take real note of it for the first time, and established once and for all that women who are subjected to a hostile work environment need never stand alone again.''
        Correction:  May 3, 2007, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Donald P. Lay, a federal appeals court judge, gave the incorrect date in some copies for his death. It was Sunday, not Tuesday.
      