
        William Becker, who after enduring rundown, though not particularly cheap, motel rooms on a cross-country trip in 1960 got the idea for the Motel 6 chain, charging $6 a night for a spare but clean room, died April 2 at his ranch outside Kingman, Ariz. He was 85.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son, Tod, said. He added that his father's death had been reported only in local newspapers.
        In 1980, Mr. Becker started the Stockmen's Bank in Kingman, which had 43 branches in Arizona and California by the time he retired as chairman last year.
        Mr. Becker was a house painter in Santa Barbara, Calif., when he, his wife, Joan, and their son took the monthlong road trip to upstate New York in 1960 to visit cousins at the old family farm outside of Saratoga Springs.
        ''When we got back, he called a friend, Paul Green, who was a building contractor, and proposed this idea for a budget motel,'' his son said.
        Using Mr. Green's experience building low-cost housing and calculating ways to minimize operating costs, the partners built the first Motel 6, in Santa Barbara, in 1962. It had 54 rooms with no closets, just hanging bars and shelves; shower stalls with rounded corners to reduce cleaning time; and sheets that required no ironing. Coin-operated TV sets cost 25 cents for six hours.
        In 1968, the partners sold what by then was a chain of 180 motels for $14 million. Today, Motel 6 is owned by Accor North America in Carrollton, Tex., and has about 800 motels in the United States and Canada, with rates ranging from $35 to $80 a night. Mr. Green died in 2002.
        William Walter Becker was born in Pasadena, Calif., on May 18, 1921. During World War II, he served in the Navy. Besides his son Tod, of Kingman, Mr. Becker is survived by a daughter, Joann Sharp, of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a brother, Don, of Santa Barbara; seven grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. His wife of 59 years, the former Joan Bolas, died in 2005.
        Mr. Becker bought a cattle ranch 40 miles east of Kingman in 1970. Ten years later, he decided to open the first branch of the Stockmen's Bank, after the manager of what was then the only bank in town told him he would have to come back after lunch to have some stock certificates notarized.
        In January, the 43 Stockmen's Bank branches were bought by the National Bank of Arizona.
      