
        Parren J. Mitchell, who as the first black elected to Congress from Maryland led the Congressional Black Caucus and spearheaded programs to aid minority-owned business, an effort he viewed as the second phase of the civil rights movement, died on Monday in Baltimore. He was 85.
        The Greater Baltimore Medical Center announced his death. Mr. Mitchell had a series of strokes several years ago. He was the first black to attend graduate school at the University of Maryland, after he sued to gain admission. A Democrat, he was the first black elected to Congress from a state below the Mason-Dixon line since 1898.
        He was the first black to head the House Small Business Committee, whose historic constituency was the mostly white, mostly conservative small-business owners he had picketed as a youth.
        After a background in civil rights and Baltimore city politics, he entered Congress in 1971 at a time when racial and urban issues occupied center stage. He immediately became a vocal member of the caucus of black representatives that formed in 1969 and that adopted its present name around the time of his arrival.
        One of his first actions with the caucus, numbering 12 at the time, was to boycott President Richard M. Nixon's State of the Union address in 1971 after Nixon had refused to meet the group. (Nixon did meet the caucus weeks later.)
        A short, thin man with a big presence, Mr. Mitchell consistently took liberal positions and was among the first congressmen to condemn the Vietnam War and call for Nixon's resignation. In a speech dripping with sarcasm on the House floor in 1983, Mr. Mitchell thanked President Ronald Reagan for appointing a single black judge and for his ''generosity'' in giving the nation a 20.4 percent unemployment rate among blacks.
        Mr. Mitchell's most visible success was in leading a fight to enact bills to give special aid to black business owners on the ground that blacks had been subjected to discrimination for generations.
        In 1976, he attached an amendment to a public works bill stipulating that cities and states receiving federal grants had to award 10 percent of the money to minority-owned businesses. That year, he sponsored a bill requiring contractors to document their goals in contracting with minority-owned companies. Both measures became law.
        In 1980, his amendment to the Surface Transportation Assistance Act required 10 percent of the money to be set aside for minority businesses.
        The successes seemed to be reversed in 1995, when the Supreme Court limited the scope of government programs granting preferences based on race or sex.
        Three years later, the Clinton administration gave new life to the laws when, to meet the court's new interpretation, it rewrote the enforcement policies.
        Mr. Mitchell's family had been deeply involved in the civil rights movement and Maryland politics since the 1930s. His older brother, Clarence M. Mitchell Jr., was a lobbyist for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in the civil rights debates of the 1960s and '70s.
        A sister-in-law, Juanita Jackson Mitchell, was the first black woman to practice law in Maryland and was considered the matriarch of the civil rights movement in Baltimore.
        Mr. Mitchell left no immediate survivors.
        Parren James Mitchell was born on April 29, 1922 in Maryland. He was the ninth of 10 children, three of whom died in childhood. His father was a waiter at the Rennert Hotel in downtown Baltimore. He was 11 years old when his brother Clarence returned from seeing a black person lynched, and Parren immediately promised to devote his life to fighting for the rights of African-Americans, The Baltimore Sun reported.
        He attended Baltimore public schools and enlisted in the Army in World War II, winning a Purple Heart for wounds suffered in Italy. He graduated from what is now Morgan State University and applied to enter the graduate program of the University of Maryland at College Park.
        After the college president advised him to pursue the degree ''off campus,'' he sued and won admission as the first black graduate student there.
        After completing a master's in sociology in 1952, he taught sociology at Morgan State, worked for the Baltimore probation department and was director, successively, of two state human relations committees.
        In President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, he headed the antipoverty program in Baltimore.
        In 1968, Mr. Mitchell lost a race for Congress to the incumbent but won the seat two years later. Over his eight terms, in addition to heading the Small Business Committee, he was also Democratic whip at large, the senior member of the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee, and chairman of its Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy.
        Mr. Mitchell was once described as ''one of God's angry men.'' Thomas L. Ashley, a Democratic representative from Ohio, said in an interview with The National Journal in 1978: ''Mitchell sees both sides of an issue. But he just sees one side better than the other.''
      