
        Arnold Lappert, the Army radio technician in Hawaii who received the last messages from the island of Corregidor before its surrender to the Japanese in May 1942, and nearly four years later realized a quest to find the fellow New Yorker who sent those final desperate words, died Friday in Dania, Fla. He was 86.
        The cause was kidney failure, his family said.
        On May 5, 1942, Irving Strobing, an Army Signal Corps operator from Brooklyn, tapped the key of his radio inside the besieged Philippine fortress of Corregidor to tell of the last moments endured by American forces under Lt. Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright before they were captured by the Japanese.
        ''General Wainwright is a right guy and we are willing to go on for him, but shells were dropping all night, faster than hell,'' he radioed to Hawaii. ''Damage terrific. Too much for guys to take.''
        In his book ''But Not in Shame,'' recounting the onset of World War II in the Pacific, John Toland wrote how ''the man who had been listening, Arnold Lappert, wept over his key.''
        Sergeant Lappert, a native of Manhattan, had been stationed at Schofield Barracks in Hawaii when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. He spent more than four years in the Pacific, then returned home in October 1945. Sergeant Strobing (his rank at war's end) came back to America after three years as a prisoner of the Japanese.
        Sergeant Lappert tried to meet with Sergeant Strobing when they both got back to New York, having known his identity from the transcripts of his messages reproduced in newspapers and broadcast on the homefront radio soon after Corregidor fell.
        The soldiers finally shared their experiences as radio operators in those dark days for America when the Jewish War Veterans of the United States brought them together at a news conference in Manhattan in January 1946. That was a prelude to their re-enacting their wartime roles at a Madison Square Garden pageant telling of the contributions American Jews had made in all the nation's wars.
        Both soldiers had been educated in the New York City public schools. Sergeant Lappert had graduated from George Washington High School in Manhattan. Sergeant Strobing was a graduate of Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn and a former student at Brooklyn College.
        Sergeant Lappert, recounting receipt of the Corregidor messages, told reporters at the gathering in 1946: ''I had a general for a runner. One star, but a general. I don't know his name exactly -- Collins, I think -- but I'll never forget his face over my shoulder and the way he ripped the paper out of my hand and ran.''
        After the war, Mr. Strobing worked for the Federal Aviation Agency and the Department of Agriculture. He died in 1997. Mr. Lappert designed and sold furniture.
        Mr. Lappert's son-in-law, Steve Benardo, said in a telephone interview that Mr. Lappert had spoken over the years of how he ''felt the fear, the intensity and the importance'' of those messages from Corregidor.
        Mr. Lappert is survived by his wife, Audrey; his daughters, Leslie Benardo of the Bronx and Nancy Lappert of Gilford, Me.; and a son, Dennis, of Newton, N.J., all from his marriage to his first wife, Anita; and seven grandchildren.
        Among the Corregidor messages hours before the surrender were the words: ''We are waiting for God only knows what. How about a chocolate soda?''
        Isidore Ginsberg, an official of the Jewish War Veterans of the United States, served up a chocolate ice cream soda when Sergeant Lappert and Sergeant Strobing met in New York during that winter of 1946. Each soldier was given a straw. And then they drank the chocolate soda together from the same glass.
      