
        Sheila Ballantyne, a critically praised novelist whose work ranged over death, deception and family life -- more often than not, these were all of a piece -- died on May 2 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 70.
        The cause was multisystem atrophy, a degenerative neurological disease, her daughter, Anya Spielman, said. Ms. Ballantyne's family did not make the news of her death public until this month.
        Ms. Ballantyne's output was small, just two novels and a volume of stories. She was known in particular for her second novel, ''Imaginary Crimes'' (Viking Press, 1982), a semi-autobiographical account of a young woman raised by a father who is a confidence man.
        Organized as a series of brief, accumulating shards, ''Imaginary Crimes'' is set in the Pacific Northwest and California, in a time ranging from the 1930s onward. It tells the story of Sonya and her younger sister, who after their mother's death from breast cancer are left in the dubious care of their father, Ray. Always looking for the next get-rich-quick scheme, Ray is eventually jailed in a land swindle.
        Reviewing the novel in The New York Times Book Review, Julian Moynahan wrote:
        ''Miss Ballantyne has made a book, at times heartbreaking, at times inspiring, out of an arduous and unusual growing up. 'Imaginary Crimes' is a very good book, a piece of honest work showing up the common American dream of the big and easy score -- the dream of every bunco artist and con man -- for the sad sham that it is.''
        ''Imaginary Crimes'' was made into a film in 1994, starring Harvey Keitel as Ray and Fairuza Balk as Sonya.
        Ms. Ballantyne's first novel, ''Norma Jean, the Termite Queen'' (Doubleday, 1975), concerns the suburban miseries and dark existential longings of its doomed heroine, a California wife and mother. Her short-story collection, ''Life on Earth'' (Simon & Schuster, 1988), centers on the various ways in which people grapple with the inexorable march toward the inevitable.
        One of the stories in the collection, ''Perpetual Care,'' received an O. Henry Prize in 1977. It deals with a woman who is trying to come to terms with the deaths of her parents.
        Sheila Caroline Weibert was born in Seattle on July 26, 1936. (She adopted Ballantyne, her mother's maiden name, as a pen name.) When Sheila was about 10, her mother died of breast cancer. Her father was warm and charming -- when he was home. But he was gone much of the time, pursuing one speculative venture or another.
        Sometimes, Ms. Spielman said, these ventures got the better of him, and once landed him in jail. Meanwhile, Sheila and her younger sister were left at home, sometimes under the care of baby sitters, sometimes on their own. In her father's absence, Sheila also had to deal with visits from his various shady business associates.
        In much of her work, Ms. Spielman said, Ms. Ballantyne wrestled again and again with a question that had haunted all her life: Is a deeply flawed parent, perhaps even a corrupt one, nonetheless capable of real love?
        In 1958 she received a bachelor's degree in psychology from Mills College. In the 1980s and '90s, she taught creative writing there.
        Ms. Ballantyne's husband, Philip Spielman, a psychoanalyst, died eight days before her. Besides her daughter, Ms. Spielman, of Ojai, Calif., she is survived by a son, Stefan Spielman, of Berkeley; a sister, Alison Georgeson, who lives in Australia; and two grandchildren.
      