
        Martin J. Weber, a graphic artist, typographer and art director who invented a widely adopted technique that gave two-dimensional images the illusion of appearing in three dimensions, died last Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102.
        His death was announced by his son, Dr. Carl Weber, a surgeon in White Plains.
        Mr. Weber invented a number of typographic and graphic techniques, but none was more popular than the one that made two-dimensional photographs seem to spring off the page. It was used frequently during the late 1960s by underground poster artists to give their artwork a psychedelic look.
        Called posterization, the technique involved converting black-and-white or color photographs into a series of three separate negatives, each designated for a different color. They were then printed together, each slightly off register. The resulting images appeared to be multidimensional. (The effect cannot be shown in black and white.)
        In 1942 Mr. Weber invented and patented a photographic device that could change the appearance of gothic lettering by, among other things, expanding, compressing or ballooning it. The device helped to start a trend in special-effects lettering.
        Another of his signature methods took continuous-tone photographs -- including portraits and product images -- and converted them into fine-line renderings, making them appear as pen-and-ink drawings or engravings. These and other techniques were known together as the Weber Process.
        Born in New York City in 1905, Mr. Weber attended the Art Students League. He began his career as a hand letterer for silent-film title cards.
        He opened Martin J. Weber Studios on Madison Avenue in the early 1930s as an art and production service for advertising and editorial clients. In the late 1940s and early '50s, Mr. Weber produced the original on-air nameplates for the CBS, ABC and NBC television networks before they adopted their more famous logos.
        His own logo, a simplified drawing of a bellows camera facing an artist's palette, underscored his melding of painted and drawn art with photography. Using this method in the early days of television, he designed sponsor logos for companies like Monsanto, Esso and the Celanese Corporation and for brands like Old Gold, Chesterfield and Lucky Strike cigarettes.
        In 1934 he became art director of the influential graphic arts magazine PM, working there for a year. But he returned in 1942, after it had changed its name to AD, to design its final cover, which introduced his posterization technique.
        In 1962 his design for a 4-cent United States stamp honoring Dag Hammarskjold, the United Nations secretary general, earned notoriety when an inverted version was printed and distributed in error.
        Mr. Weber continued to work until he was 80.
        His first wife, Toby, died in 1956. In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife of 48 years, Naomi; three daughters, Ellen and Joy Weber and Marilyn Marsden; 10 grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      