
        Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania and the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Saturday near his home in Philadelphia. In 1965, he helped calm tensions as acting chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, in the demonstrations of the Free Speech Movement. He was 84.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his son Adam said.
        A prominent scholar of urban design, Mr. Meyerson wrote four books on the subject and was an early proponent of first addressing political, economic and social concerns in communities where planners hoped to build major projects.
        ''It seems obvious today, but in the 1950s it wasn't the common way of thinking,'' said Gary Hack, dean of the School of Design at the University of Pennsylvania. ''You can't just make a plan and implement it. Making the plan has to be inherently a process that organizes public and political support.''
        It was a concept that Mr. Meyerson followed as president of Penn from 1970 to 1981. He oversaw the conversion of what had been a collection of buildings on Philadelphia streets into a true campus. Streets were closed, landscaped walkways were built, and a large park was created in the middle of the campus.
        At the same time, Penn promoted economic development in its surrounding impoverished neighborhood.
        Mr. Meyerson's ideas were largely based on his analysis of the effects of public housing projects in Chicago in the early '50s. His book ''Politics, Planning and the Public Interest'' (The Free Press, 1955), written with Edward C. Banfield, predicted that constructing tall buildings packed with small apartments would have the unintended effect of racially isolating the urban poor.
        Dr. Hack called the book ''the seminal work on the subject.''
        At Penn, Mr. Meyerson integrated women into the university. Until then, women had attended classes with men, but were enrolled in the separate College for Women. He also started the first affirmative action program at the institution.
        Mr. Meyerson was born on Nov. 14, 1922, in Brooklyn, the only child of Samuel and Etta Berger Meyerson. Surviving are his wife of 61 years, the former Margy Ellin Lazarus; two sons, Adam and Matthew, of Concord, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
        A 1942 graduate of Columbia University, Mr. Meyerson received his master's in planning from Harvard in 1949. In 1952, after teaching at the University of Chicago, he was hired as an associate professor at Penn. He taught at Harvard from 1957 to 1963 and was then named dean of the College of Environmental Design at Berkeley.
        In 1966, he was appointed president of SUNY Buffalo and four years later returned to Penn as president.
        In January 1965, while dean of the design school at Berkeley, Mr. Meyerson was asked to be acting chancellor after Edward W. Strong was forced out of office in the Free Speech Movement demonstrations.
        A month earlier, nearly 800 students had been arrested when they occupied the administration building to protest a campus ban on political activity and fund-raising and recruitment for civil rights demonstrations.
        In his six months as acting chancellor, Mr. Meyerson changed policies like moving to allow political speeches and the distribution of political literature on campus.
        To soothe complaints that the 22,000-student university was too bureaucratic and impersonal, he personally signed each of the hundreds of diplomas handed out at the graduation ceremony that spring.
        As president of Penn and SUNY Buffalo, ''he never did that again,'' Adam Meyerson said.
      