
        Janet S. Sainer, who as commissioner of New York City's Department for the Aging in the 1980s created programs to keep older people active, educate them on health issues, provide them with meals on weekends and help their caregivers, died Monday while attending a training conference on the elderly in Denver. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        Her death was confirmed by Nora O'Brien, director of aging programs for the Brookdale Foundation, to which Mrs. Sainer had been a consultant since 1990.
        At the conference in Denver, Mrs. Sainer was leading training seminars for nonprofit groups on the Brookdale Foundation's Relatives as Parents Program. The program, which Mrs. Sainer started and which now helps finance 175 organizations around the country, helps people who are raising their grandchildren.
        Mrs. Sainer was appointed commissioner by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1978, and, over the next 12 years, expanded the department with a panoply of programs.
        Among Mrs. Sainer's innovative additions were ''intergenerational programs in which young people -- many from troubled homes -- visit and provide services to the elderly while the older people provide a stable influence,'' the city's current commissioner for the aging, Edwin Méndez-Santiago, said yesterday.
        Mrs. Sainer also opened the department's health promotion unit, which educates the elderly on disease prevention, and its Stay Well program, which advises them on stress management and offers exercise classes and walking tours led by trained volunteers who must be at least 60 themselves.
        In 1981, Mrs. Sainer started Citymeals-on-Wheels, which delivers meals to elderly people in their homes on weekends. (The federally financed Meals-on-Wheels program provides meals only on weekdays.) Citymeals, which is now a nonprofit organization working with the Department for the Aging, currently serves 18,000 people a day, up from 6,000 in 1981.
        Under Mrs. Sainer, the city also held job fairs for the elderly and opened an Alzheimer's unit, which offers education about the disease and provides support to caregivers.
        Janet Salpeter was born in Queens on July 4, 1918. She graduated from Hunter College in 1938 and received a master's in social work in 1940 from what is now Case Western Reserve University.
        She is survived by two daughters, Alicia, of Manhattan, and Debbie, of Evergreen, Colo.; a son, Elliot, of South Pasadena, Calif.; a sister, Gladys Kraft of Wheaton, Md.; and three grandchildren. Her husband, Hy Sainer, died in 2002.
      