
        Samuel A. Garrison III, who as chief Republican counsel to the House Judiciary Committee in its Watergate investigation in 1974 argued against the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on May 27 near his home in Roanoke, Va. He was 65.
        The cause was leukemia, Mr. Garrison's partner of 17 years, Mark Harris, said.
        Mr. Garrison had been deputy Republican counsel for the investigation when he was hastily chosen, on July 21, 1974, to replace Albert E. Jenner Jr. as chief counsel. Mr. Jenner was removed by the Republican committee members after he advocated the impeachment of Nixon and helped write a 306-page summary of supporting evidence.
        With only a few days to prepare, Mr. Garrison wrote that Nixon should not be impeached unless it was likely he would be convicted by the Senate and removed from office.
        The issue, he said, was not ''a narrow question'' of whether the president ''did, on a certain date, perform an act'' with which Congress members ''disagree, or even whether it could be considered, on some theory of law, as complicity in a crime.'' Rather, he said, the central question was ''whether the public interest would be served or disserved by removal from office.''
        Mr. Garrison also argued that in citing executive privilege as the basis for refusing to comply with subpoenas for tape-recorded conversations, the president was exercising his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
        On Aug. 8, 1974, after the House committee passed three articles of impeachment charging obstruction of justice, Nixon resigned.
        Samuel Alexander Garrison III was born in Roanoke on Feb. 21, 1942, the son of Doris Hatcher and Samuel Garrison Jr. In addition to Mr. Harris, Mr. Garrison is survived by his son, David, of Exton, Pa., and three grandchildren. His marriage ended in divorce.
        Mr. Garrison graduated from the University of Virginia in 1963 and received his law degree there in 1966. After three years as an assistant Virginia commonwealth attorney (or prosecutor), Mr. Garrison was elected as commonwealth attorney for Roanoke. In 1971, Vice President Spiro T. Agnew chose him as his liaison to Congress.
        After Nixon's resignation, Mr. Garrison returned to Roanoke to practice law. In 1980, he was sentenced to a year in prison for embezzling $46,000 from the bankruptcy account of a mobile home company, which he was representing. He was released after four months. Although he was disbarred after his conviction, Mr. Garrison's law license was reinstated in 1993.
        By the early 1980s, Mr. Garrison had announced that he was gay and soon became active in the gay rights movement.
        Correction:  June 13, 2007, Wednesday  An obituary on June 5 about Samuel A. Garrison III, the chief Republican counsel to the House Judiciary Committee during the Watergate investigation, misstated the date of the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon. It was Aug. 9, 1974 -- not Aug. 8, which was the date he announced that he would resign effective at noon the following day. Also, the obituary referred incorrectly to the three articles of impeachment passed by the Judiciary Committee. Only one article -- not all three -- charged Mr. Nixon with obstruction of justice. The others charged abuse of power and defiance of committee subpoenas.
      