
        Mark Harris, who took readers on a literary journey through the life of a mythical baseball player in four well-received novels, including ''Bang the Drum Slowly,'' which became the basis of a 1973 movie, died Wednesday. He was 84 and lived in Goleta, Calif.
        His death, at a hospital in Santa Barbara, was caused by complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son Henry said.
        ''Bang the Drum Slowly'' (1956) was the second of Mr. Harris's tetralogy of baseball novels, following ''The Southpaw'' (1953). The others were ''A Ticket for a Seamstitch'' (1957) and ''It Looked Like For Ever'' (1979).
        The books follow the adventures of Henry Wiggen, a gifted pitcher for the fictional New York Mammoths. Wiggen himself narrates the tales in a colloquial voice laced with dry, country humor. All the books grapple with moral and social issues.
        In ''Bang the Drum Slowly,'' Wiggen befriends a slow-talking catcher from Georgia named Bruce Pearson who is more ridiculed than respected by his teammates. When Pearson learns he is terminally ill with Hodgkin's disease and is to be sent to the minor leagues, Wiggen rallies his teammates to keep the catcher among them and inspires Pearson to become a better player before his time runs out.
        The book, wrote the New York Times sports columnist George Vecsey, ''has one of the loveliest last lines in American literature, a regret from Wiggen for the way the players made fun of a slow-witted and now-dead teammate: 'From here on in, I rag nobody.' ''
        The film version, adapted by Mr. Harris, starred Michael Moriarty as Wiggen and Robert De Niro as Pearson. In 1956, the story was the basis of a teleplay shown on CBS, with Paul Newman as Wiggen and George Peppard as Pearson.
        ''The Southpaw'' recounts Wiggen's rookie year. Here the narrator debates how to handle four-letter words and references to baseball players' sex lives and decides in the end to leave them in, because they are part of the game.
        Critics called it a serious work of fiction, comparable to Bernard Malamud's baseball novel of the year before, ''The Natural.''
        In the last of the novels, ''It Looked Like For Ever,'' Wiggen, now 39, has lost his fastball. The novel ''is not so much about baseball as it is about aging, just as 'Bang the Drum Slowly' was not so much about baseball as it is about dying,'' wrote the poet and critic Donald Hall in The New York Times Book Review.
        Mr. Hall added, ''Writing like Harris's helps us to understand, even to withstand, disaster -- Vietnam, the meaningless death of the young, an enlarged prostate gland and, in an earlier work of art, the failure of Mudville's Casey.''
        In all, Mr. Harris wrote 13 novels and 4 nonfiction books. His nonfiction books included ''Mark the Glove Boy, or the Last Days of Richard Nixon'' (1964); an autobiography, ''Best Father Ever Invented'' (1976); and ''Saul Bellow: Drumlin Woodchuck'' (1980). He also edited ''Selected Poems of Vachel Lindsay'' (1963) and ''The Heart of Boswell: Six Journals in One Volume'' (1981) and wrote book reviews, critical essays and articles.
        ''Diamond,'' a collection of Mr. Harris's baseball essays, was published in 1994.
        Mark Harris Finkelstein was born on Nov. 19, 1922, in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and reared there. After Army service in 1943 and 1944, he worked for newspapers in Port Chester, N.Y., and New York City. He also wrote for Negro Digest and Ebony. His first novel, ''Trumpet to the World'' (1946), concerns racial inequality and tells of a black writer who rises from poverty to the best-seller list.
        Mr. Harris received a bachelor's degree in 1950 and a master's in 1951, both in English, from the University of Denver, and a Ph.D. in American studies in 1956 from the University of Minnesota. He taught English at five universities, the final one the University of Arizona from 1980 to 2002.
        He married Josephine Horen in 1946. He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Hester Jill, of San Francisco; two sons, Anthony, of Santa Barbara, and Henry, of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and a sister, Martha Harris, of Pittsburgh.
        ''There is nothing I can say which will explain myself,'' Mr. Harris said in an interview in 1959. ''To some extent, I have said what I know in my books.''
        To the poet Mr. Hall, Mr. Harris's achievement was in distilling that knowledge into lyrical stories of a game. ''Mr. Harris's literary game of baseball is a version of pastoral -- a small, intact reduction of the world,'' Mr. Hall wrote. Speaking of Wiggen, he added, ''If I had a vote, I would put Henry up for Cooperstown.''
        Correction:  June 7, 2007, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Mark Harris, who wrote the baseball novel ''Bang the Drum Slowly'' and other books, gave an incorrect identification in some copies for the actor who played catcher Bruce Pearson in a 1956 television adaptation of that novel. He was Albert Salmi -- not George Peppard, who played another ballplayer, Piney Woods, in the production. The obituary also misidentified a university at which Mr. Harris taught. It was Arizona State University, not the University of Arizona.
      