
        Jean-Claude Brialy, a dashing leading man of the French New Wave films of the 1960s and '70s, died Wednesday in Paris. He was 74.
        His death, of cancer, was confirmed by the president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, who praised his ''finesse and his light spirit.'' The former president, Jacques Chirac, called Mr. Brialy ''a man of the heart, generous, passionate, elegant.''
        The New Wave movement, which began to flourish in the late 1950s, was a rebellion against the conventions of cinema. The director became the intellectual author of the movie; the stars were made more human, the stories more enigmatic.
        Mr. Brialy's starring roles under the leading lights of the movement, including François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard, made him an embodiment of French films for a global audience.
        Mr. Brialy, who was born the son of a military family in 1933 in Aumale, Algeria, was trained in comedy, tragedy and farce at drama school in Strasbourg, and he worked in the theater in his youth. His first starring appearance on screen was in Claude Chabrol's ''Handsome Serge'' (''Le Beau Serge'') in 1958.
        American audiences took note of him as a leading man in Jean-Luc Godard's ''Woman Is a Woman'' (''Une Femme Est une Femme''), which was made in 1961 and first seen in the United States at the New York Film Festival in 1964.
        In that film, which the director called ''a neo-realist musical,'' Mr. Brialy directly addresses the audience with a line that became an epigram for the New Wave: ''It's hard to tell if this is a comedy or a tragedy, but either way it's a masterpiece.''
        Mr. Brialy also starred in Eric Rohmer's 1970 film ''Claire's Knee'' (''Le Genou de Claire''), in which he played a handsome, bearded, worldly diplomat filled with desire for a young woman's patella. Writing in The New York Times, Vincent Canby called it ''very close to being a perfect movie.''
        Mr. Brialy appeared in close to 200 films and television shows over the years and directed a dozen. For two decades he owned a popular theater in Paris. He was working until last year, after more than a half-century on screen and onstage.
      