
        William Meredith, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet who used the rigorous constraints of meter and rhyme to subdue some of the most uncontrollable aspects of the human condition -- fear, loneliness, destiny, mortality -- died Wednesday in New London, Conn. He was 88 and had homes in Uncasville, Conn., and West Palm Beach, Fla.
        The cause was heart and respiratory failure, according to Byles-MacDougall Funeral Service in New London.
        A member of the Connecticut College faculty for nearly three decades, Mr. Meredith was a past poet laureate of the United States. He was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 for ''Partial Accounts: New and Selected Poems'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1987) and was in later years the recipient of a National Book Award.
        Mr. Meredith began writing poetry as a college student in the late 1930s. From the start, his work was characterized by its restrained style, spare beauty and a deceptive simplicity that belied a deep, nuanced concern with matters of poetic form.
        His first collection, ''Love Letter From an Impossible Land'' (Yale University), which appeared in 1944, was chosen by Archibald MacLeish for publication in the Yale Series of Younger Poets. The book included poems that grew out of Mr. Meredith's wartime experience in the Pacific.
        Reviewing the collection in The New York Times Book Review, Willard Thorp called its publication ''an event.''
        ''What strikes one first about these poems is their directness,'' Mr. Thorp wrote. He added: ''By a careful logic, the control of echoing sounds and phrases, the expansibility of metaphor, more is actually said than one guesses at first hearing.''
        Mr. Meredith worked deliberately, and his output was small, about a dozen volumes. Among them are ''Ships and Other Figures'' (Princeton University, 1948); ''The Open Sea and Other Poems'' (Knopf, 1958); ''Earth Walk: New and Selected Poems'' (Knopf, 1970); and ''Hazard, the Painter'' (Knopf, 1975).
        In these volumes, too, he was intimately concerned with controlling the contours of rhythm and tone. Mr. Meredith cared intensely about matching the desired mood of a poem with the right poetic form: a sestina, with its compulsory repeated words, was ripe for mulling things over and over; a villanelle, its echoing, interlaced lines suggesting a constant turning back, was ideal for ambivalence.
        But even at his most rigorously formal, Mr. Meredith communicated a barely contained emotionalism beneath each line, as in his many poems about the open sea. In the title poem from ''The Wreck of the Thresher and Other Poems'' (Knopf, 1964), an elegy for sailors in a downed submarine, he wrote:
        (Why can't our dreams be content with the terrible facts?
        The only animal cursed with responsible sleep.
        We trace disaster always to our own acts.
        I met a monstrous self trapped in the black deep:
        All these years, he smiled, I've drilled at sea
        For this crush of water. Then he saved only me.)
        William Morris Meredith was born in New York City on Jan. 9, 1919, the son of William Morris Meredith III and the former Nelly Keyser. (The younger Mr. Meredith, who never used a Roman numeral after his name, was a collateral descendant of William Morris Meredith, secretary of the Treasury under President Zachary Taylor.)
        Mr. Meredith earned a bachelor's degree in English from Princeton in 1940, writing his senior thesis on Robert Frost. After working briefly as a copy boy at The New York Times, he served as a Navy flier in World War II. He re-enlisted in the Korean War, receiving two Air Medals for his service.
        Mr. Meredith joined the Connecticut College faculty in 1955. From 1978 to 1980, he was poet laureate or, more precisely, consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress, as the title was then known. (The position was renamed poet laureate consultant in poetry in 1985.)
        In connection with his Library of Congress duties, Mr. Meredith became interested in the work of contemporary Bulgarian poets, at the time little known in the United States. With his life partner, Richard Harteis, he edited a volume of Bulgarian poetry translated into English, ''Window on the Black Sea'' (Carnegie Mellon University), published in 1992.
        Mr. Harteis (pronounced HART-ice), also a poet, is Mr. Meredith's only immediate survivor.
        In 1983, Mr. Meredith had a stroke that left him immobilized for the next two years. It also left him with expressive aphasia, the ability to produce language only with great effort, if at all. Mr. Meredith resigned his position at Connecticut College; poems no longer came to him. He underwent intensive therapy, traveling to Britain for treatment. Little by little, he regained much of his lost language skills.
        In 1997, Mr. Meredith received a National Book Award for a new collection of poems. Published that year by TriQuarterly Books, it was titled ''Effort at Speech.''
        Partial Accounts
        i. surgery
        When they needed a foreign part,
        a valve which was not to be found
        or spared elsewhere in his ample,
        useful body, they chose a pig's valve.
        This will be compatible, they reasoned,
        with such pig-headed machinery
        as has maintained a minor poet
        for sixty-three years in America.
        ii. convalescence
        Once a week on Thursday there's a souk
        or open market in Sale, the old Roman port
        facing Rabat across the Bou Regreg.
        At least one dentist always sets up shop too-
        a table full of gun-metal teeth, formerly human.
        One day I saw a woman have one pulled,
        or saw as much as a queasy heart could watch.
        The chirurgien dentiste was a small man,
        authoritative, Berber I think.
        His left foot was set gently on the woman's
        shoulder, and when I last looked,
        difficult, silent progress was being made.
        A concept of necessary suffering, praise Allah,
        is common to all civilizations.
        Soon I will need to imagine again
        what she is feeling, but for a few more days
        that will not be necessary, a sensation
        my body was too fastidious to wait for
        hovers inside me. Even mortality
        is briefly imaginable, like pain.
        Arab Sister, in your dark robed dignity,
        May we both be healed of our cures and live
        painlessly forever, as our bodies urge.
        From William Meredith's book ''Partial Accounts: New and Selected Poems'' (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1987), which won the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for poetry
      