
        Warren M. Anderson, a longtime Republican leader in the New York State Senate who helped to bail New York City out of its fiscal crisis in the mid-1970s, died yesterday at Wilson Regional Medical Center in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Dickinson.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said James W. Orband, managing partner of Hinman, Howard & Kattell, the Binghamton law firm where Mr. Anderson became a partner in 1950.
        During his 36 years in the State Senate, from 1953 to 1988, Mr. Anderson worked with six governors, from Thomas E. Dewey to Mario M. Cuomo, and was the majority leader for 16 years. The legislation for which he was arguably best known was the state's Tuition Assistance Program, an accomplishment cited yesterday by the current Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat.
        ''He was a strong advocate for tax relief, increased government accountability and greater state investment in schools,'' Mr. Bruno said in a statement.
        In a separate statement, Mr. Silver said, ''Warren Anderson helped guide this state through a difficult period of economic and social upheaval.''
        Along with Gov. Hugh L. Carey and the Democratic Assembly speaker Stanley Steingut, Mr. Anderson was a key member of the troika that reached a compromise to slowly lift New York City out of the fiscal crisis that took it to near-bankruptcy in 1975.
        The state authorized the creation of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was able to raise money by issuing debt backed by state-controlled funds. Union-controlled pension funds agreed to purchase much of that debt in exchange for reducing the extensive layoffs that the city had ordered to balance its books.
        Working with another Democratic Assembly speaker, Stanley Fink, Mr. Anderson also helped to shepherd a large increase in state aid to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in the early 1980s -- an effort that paved the way for vast improvements in subway service over the subsequent two decades.
        ''Trim, gray-haired, invariably well tailored, except for the last day of the Legislative session when he dons a garish plaid, Senator Anderson does not practice the back-slapping brand of politics,'' The New York Times said in 1975. ''He is soft-spoken and polite even in combat.''
        (The ''garish plaid'' referred to an eccentric tradition for which Mr. Anderson was renowned: donning loud and tacky sports coats to signal the end of each Senate session.)
        Warren Mattice Anderson was born on Oct. 16, 1915, in Bainbridge, N.Y. He attended Broome County public schools and graduated from Colgate University. After graduating from Albany Law School in 1940, Mr. Anderson was an assistant county attorney in Broome County, served in the Army in World War II and then joined the firm Hinman, Howard & Kattell in 1949. He was elected to the Senate in 1952, to a seat that had been held by his father, Floyd E. Anderson, who became a State Supreme Court justice.
        A protégé of a longtime Senate majority leader, Earl W. Brydges, Warren Anderson was named chairman of the Senate's most powerful body, the Finance Committee, in 1965. When Mr. Brydges retired in 1972, he was elected majority leader.
        In an editorial after the election, The Times described him as a ''moderately conservative Republican'' who was seen by his colleagues as ''a thoroughly competent, sympathetic and responsible lawmaker.''
        At the time, Albany was generally characterized by a tradition of Legislative deference, even subservience, to the governor -- a tradition that deepened during Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's long tenure, from 1959 to 1973.
        In 1974, amid the crushing defeats of Republicans during the fallout from the Watergate scandal, the Democrats captured the State Assembly and Mr. Carey, a Democratic congressman, was elected governor. Mr. Anderson suddenly found himself the state's most important Republican. In 1977, he considered challenging Mr. Carey, but lack of party support led him to withdraw -- a long-term disappointment.
        Mr. Anderson formed a collaborative relationship with Mr. Steingut, the new Assembly speaker, but became especially close to Mr. Steingut's successor, Mr. Fink, who was speaker from 1979 to 1986.
        Mr. Anderson, quiet, reserved and dignified, and Mr. Fink, loud, profane and overbearing, and a generation younger, developed a close relationship, almost like that of father and son. In 1997, when Mr. Anderson learned of Mr. Fink's death, he burst into tears.
        Mr. Anderson was not immune to pork-barrel politics: He secured money for a stretch of Interstate 88, connecting Binghamton and Albany, that was jokingly known as ''Warren M. Anderson Driveway.'' (It was later officially named the Warren M. Anderson Expressway.) Mr. Anderson announced his retirement from the State Senate in 1988; Ralph J. Marino, a Republican from Long Island, replaced him as majority leader, and Mr. Anderson returned to full-time law practice.
        Mr. Anderson's first wife, Eleanor, died in 1996. He is survived by his second wife, the former Ruth W. Bennett, whom he married in 2001; by four sons from his first marriage, W. David, of Darien, Conn.; Lawrence C., of Castle Creek, N.Y.; Richard S., of Hillcrest, N.Y.; and Thomas B., of Marblehead, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
      