
        Charles Lee Remington, the intellectual patriarch of modern American lepidopterology, the scientific study of butterflies and moths, died on May 31 in Hamden, Conn. He was 85.
        His death was confirmed by his wife, Ellen Mahoney.
        Dr. Remington, a professor at Yale University for more than four decades, co-founded the field's scientific organization, the Lepidopterists' Society, while still a graduate student. Later, as a professor, he shaped the field by recruiting and serving as a mentor to several generations of the discipline's leading scientists. Dr. Remington also helped the discipline grow outside the walls of the academy, working with serious amateur collectors, most famously with Vladimir Nabokov.
        ''When you wanted to know anything about butterflies, you went to him,'' said Naomi Pierce, Hessel professor of biology at Harvard University and former student of Dr. Remington's. ''It's just incredible if you think about the list of people who were his students or worked with him.''
        Dr. Remington was born in Reedville, Va., in 1922, to Maud and P. Sheldon Remington, a school headmaster. Charles spent his boyhood chasing butterflies alongside his father, also a collector. He studied biology at Principia College and then parlayed his World War II military service into a bug-finding mission, serving as a medical entomologist in the Pacific.
        During his graduate studies at Harvard, he founded the Lepidopterists' Society with an equally butterfly-smitten undergraduate, Harry Clench. What began as a party of two is today an organization of about 1,500 members from more than 50 countries. The folksy newsletter the young men wrote is now the historic first issue of the international scientific publication known as the Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society.
        At Harvard, Dr. Remington also began his friendship with Vladimir Nabokov, a serious amateur lepidopterist. Dr. Remington was a kindred spirit who understood the joy of a particular catch, what Nabokov once referred to as a ''fellow sufferer.''
        In 1948, Dr. Remington began teaching at Yale, where with his bolo ties he cut a colorful figure among more buttoned-down colleagues.
        He often told his students of how, while stationed in the Philippines, he was awakened from sleep by ''a fiery pain'' in his armpit. Digging about in his bedclothes, Dr. Remington found the culprit: a giant centipede, about 8 inches long. Not only did Dr. Remington catch the beast and write a scientific article on its nasty bite, he had the good sense to preserve it for years so he could dangle it before awestruck students.
        Today the more than one hundred students that he guided in scientific research at Yale head research programs from Harvard to Stanford and include well-known figures in the butterfly world like Lincoln Brower, a monarch biologist at Sweet Briar College, and Robert Michael Pyle, the Northwest nature writer.
        Less well known is Dr. Remington's evolutionary research, initially well received, in which he suggested that there were geographic regions where species tended to hybridize. In these areas, which he called suture zones, he suggested that species of all different sorts -- plants, insects, mammals and so on -- might be found hybridizing with close relatives.
        The idea was soon considered discredited. But in recent years others have revived the concept, and new, more extensive studies suggest that Dr. Remington may have been right in thinking that suture zones do exist and may be an important evolutionary phenomenon.
        As curator at the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale, Dr. Remington is credited with creating one of the nation's premier insect collections. Beyond having huge numbers of specimens, the collection is known for its unique holdings, from the insects used by the famed ecologist G. Evelyn Hutchinson to develop the modern concept of the ecological niche to curiosities like the world's largest collection of insects whose bodies are part male and part female, known as gynandromorphs.
        Dr. Remington's marriage to Jeanne Remington of Boulder, Colo., ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Ellen Mahoney of North Haven, Conn; his three children from his first marriage, Eric Remington, of Saratoga, Calif., Sheldon Remington, of Hilo, Hawaii, Janna Remington, of Boulder, Colo.; and three grandchildren.
        Dr. Remington established the world's first -- and probably only -- preserve for the Magicicada, a cicada that appears by the millions but only once every 17 years. When the cicadas last emerged in Connecticut in 1996, Dr. Remington took advantage of the windfall on the 90-acre preserve to carry out experiments both scientific and culinary.
        ''You know the slight sweetness that's in good, young venison?'' said Dr. Remington, who arranged a taste-testing of the cicadas both boiled and fried. ''Well, that's what the 17-year cicada tastes like.''
      