
        Dr. Harvey R. Colten, a pediatric immunologist and a leading medical educator at Columbia University whose research helped isolate a gene tied to respiratory failure in infants, died on May 24 in Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was complications of colon cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Colten's career combined laboratory research and administration. He was a senior associate dean at Columbia and a dean at Northwestern University after earlier appointments at Harvard and Washington University in St. Louis.
        In the 1990s, while at Washington, where he was chairman of the department of pediatrics, Dr. Colten guided a team of scientists in identifying the gene responsible for producing a protein, pulmonary surfactant protein B, needed to ensure normal function of the lungs.
        Dr. Colten and others found that a flaw in the gene in some infants disrupted the protein, sometimes leading to respiratory failure and death. They published their findings in The New England Journal of Medicine in 1993. The team went on to develop a blood test for the protein deficiency and explored protein replacement and lung transplants as potential remedies for afflicted children.
        Transplants proved to be the more effective therapy and have been used successfully since the late 1990s, said Dr. F. Sessions Cole, a professor of pediatrics, cell biology and physiology at Washington and an assistant vice chancellor for children's health there.
        In work at the National Cancer Institute in the 1960s, Dr. Colten studied a group of plasma proteins, known as complement proteins, which are important in preparing the body's immune response to infection. The proteins ''complement'' the work of white blood cells and antibodies in fighting infection; Dr. Colten and others helped to describe the proteins' molecular basis, function and transportation within the bloodstream.
        Dr. Tibor Borsos, a former chief of the Laboratory of Immunobiology at the National Cancer Institute, said Dr. Colten's contributions had been ''outstanding and fundamental'' in exploring the 20 or so known complement proteins and in finding ways to regulate their production. Dr. Colten was also interested in the complement proteins' ties to cystic fibrosis, an inherited and often deadly immunological disease.
        Harvey Radin Colten was born in Houston. He graduated from Cornell University and received his medical degree from Western Reserve University, now Case Western Reserve, in Cleveland in 1963.
        He taught at George Washington University in Washington before joining Harvard as an assistant professor of pediatrics in 1970. Harvard named him a professor of pediatrics in 1979.
        In 1986, Dr. Colten moved to Washington University, where he was a professor of pediatrics and molecular microbiology and headed the pediatrics department. He was dean and vice president for medical affairs at Northwestern from 1997 to 1999.
        In 2002, he was appointed vice president and senior associate dean for translational research at Columbia, where he pursued a career-long interest in adapting and applying innovations from the laboratory to clinical care.
        He was a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Colten is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Susan Kaplowitz. The couple lived in Manhattan and Tamworth, N.H.
        He is also survived by a son, Charles, of Petrolia, Calif.; two daughters, Jennifer Schmidt of St. Louis, and Lora, of Homer, Alaska; his father, Oscar, of Houston; a brother, Richard, of Fairfax, Va.; a sister, Faith Fiore of Orange Park, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      