
        Edward S. Behr, a former war correspondent who covered conflicts around the world for nearly three decades and who wrote books about notable and sometimes notorious figures in 20th-century history, died Saturday in Paris, where he lived. He was 81.
        The death was confirmed by Christopher Dickey, the Paris bureau chief for Newsweek magazine.
        Mr. Behr was a reporter and editor for Newsweek from 1965 to 1988. He had stints as the magazine's bureau chief in Paris, Hong Kong and Saigon and later as its European editor and European cultural editor.
        During his years roaming the globe, Mr. Behr covered wars in Algeria, Angola, Congo, Vietnam, Lebanon and Northern Ireland. From Hong Kong, he wrote about China's Cultural Revolution. He went to Cuba shortly after the 1962 missile crisis. And in 1968 alone, he covered the Tet offensive in Vietnam, the student riots in Paris and the Soviet occupation of Prague. Among Mr. Behr's 19 books are biographies of Emperor Hirohito of Japan, the Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu and Pu Yi, the last emperor of China.
        His biographical conclusions were sometimes controversial. In ''Hirohito: Behind the Myth'' (Villard Books, 1989), he wrote that Japan's emperor from 1926 to 1989 had not been the pacifist portrayed by his post-World War II image. Mr. Behr said the emperor knew about the Nanking massacres in 1937, played a part in planning the attack on Pearl Harbor and failed to seize opportunities to surrender before the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The emperor ''escaped the consequences of his actions with total impunity,'' Mr. Behr wrote.
        In 1991, Mr. Behr wrote ''Kiss the Hand You Cannot Bite: The Rise and Fall of the Ceausescus'' (Villard Books), which concluded that despite the Romanian revolt in 1989, the prospects for democracy seemed dim because the country remained in the hands of the dictator's disciples, including officials of the secret police.
        Edward Samuel Behr was born in Paris on May 7, 1926, a son of Felix and Eugenia Behr. He is survived by his wife of 40 years, the former Christiane Wagrez.
        As a youth, Mr. Behr was intrigued by the military. Shortly after graduating from high school, he enlisted in the Indian Army, rising to brigade major with the Royal Garhwal Rifles during his service in the North-West Frontier from 1944 to 1948. Mr. Behr earned a bachelor's degree in history from Cambridge University in 1951 and a master's degree there in 1953.
        By then, he had already started his reporting career, working for Reuters in London. After serving two years as spokesman for an intergovernmental European coal and steel agency, he returned to reporting, first for The Saturday Evening Post and then Time-Life. He also wrote several novels, a history of Prohibition in the United States and coffee-table books about the hit musicals ''Les Misérables'' and ''Miss Saigon.''
        In a 1978 book called ''Bearings'' (Viking Press), Mr. Behr recounted what he called the ''quintessential absurdity'' of being a foreign correspondent.
        The book was reprinted three years later under the title, ''Anyone Here Been Raped and Speak English?'' (Hamilton). The title was based on a phrase Mr. Behr swore he had heard a BBC-TV reporter call out during the Congolese war in 1961 -- beckoning for someone to come forward and be interviewed.
      