
        Sir Wally Herbert, the first man to walk across the icebound Arctic Ocean and, some contend, the first to reach the North Pole on foot, a feat long credited to Rear Adm. Robert E. Peary, died Tuesday in Scotland at 72.
        The cause was diabetes, said his daughter, Kari Herbert. Sir Wally was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 2000 and lived near Inverness.
        ''It seemed like conquering a horizontal Everest,'' Sir Wally said of the 3,620-mile trek across treacherous ice floes that ended May 30, 1969. He led a four-man team on the 476-day expedition from Point Barrow, Alaska, to a tiny island near Spitsbergen, Norway.
        On April 4, 1969 -- 407 days into the journey -- the team stopped at the North Pole, planted a Union Jack and ate beef stew from supplies hauled there by its 40 sled dogs. ''It was too cold and too windy to hold any other celebrations,'' Sir Wally radioed to London.
        Sixty years earlier, on April 6, 1909, Admiral Peary was reported to be the first man to reach the pole on foot. The news went out to the world five months later when Admiral Peary and his team arrived at Indian Harbor, Labrador, and sent a wire to The New York Times, which had exclusive rights to the story. The message read in part, ''I have the Pole, April Sixth.''
        That claim has been debated. In 1973, Dennis Rawlins, an astronomer, wrote a book, ''Peary at the North Pole: Fact or Fiction?'' in which he calculated that Admiral Peary had missed the pole by about 60 miles. Mr. Rawlins called the admiral's claim a ''navigational fantasy.''
        Then, in 1985, Sir Wally, who wrote nine books on polar exploration, was invited to examine Admiral Peary's diary and astronomical observations. The documents had not been made public since 1911.
        In September 1988, the National Geographic Society, which had sponsored Admiral Peary's expedition, published an article by Sir Wally in its magazine detailing navigational errors, suspect distance records and inexplicably blank pages in the admiral's diary. Drawing on new knowledge of Arctic Ocean weather, currents and ice drift, he concluded that those factors and navigational mistakes had left Admiral Peary 30 to 60 miles from the pole.
        Sir Wally was particularly concerned that Admiral Peary's handwritten diary offered no record of his 30 hours near the pole. Several pages were blank, and the entry for April 6 made no mention of the pole. Instead, a loose leaf had been inserted, declaring, ''The Pole at last!!!'' Whether Peary actually made it to the pole, Sir Wally wrote, ''can never be anything more than a probability.''
        In 1989, however, the National Geographic Society commissioned the Navigation Foundation, a professional society, to examine the evidence. Based on an analysis of photographs, celestial sightings, ocean depth readings and other records, the foundation, in a 230-page report, concluded that Peary's final camp had been within five miles of the pole.
        Wally Herbert was born in York, England, on Oct. 24, 1934, into a family with a long tradition of military service. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Marie.
        Sir Wally did not attend college but acquired surveyor skills while a member of the Royal Engineers in the Middle East from 1951 to 1954. He later joined the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey, the forerunner of the British Antarctic Survey. In the late 1950s and early '60s, while traveling on foot and dog sled, he mapped 45,000 square miles of the Antarctic. With Inuit people, he later roamed thousands of miles in the Arctic. An Antarctic mountain range and an Arctic mountain are named for Sir Wally, according to the Royal Geographical Society.
        ''As well as his superhuman physical achievements, his expeditions laid the foundations for modern polar science and our understanding of the thinning Arctic ice from climate change,'' the director of the Royal Geographical Society, Rita Gardner, told Agence France-Presse on Tuesday.
        For the Arctic crossing, Sir Wally was joined by Maj. Kenneth Hedges of the Royal Army Medical Corps; Allan Gill, a photographer; and Roy Koerner, a Canadian glaciologist. They made two long stops: two months in the summer and five months in the winter. In winter, the four-man team lived in total darkness. For Dr. Koerner, the most harrowing moments came in the first week, in February 1968.
        In a telephone interview on Wednesday, Dr. Koerner said the problem was caused by shore-fast -- sea ice close to the coast. ''Once you step off it, you're on ice crunching against the shore-fast,'' he said. ''For something like 40 miles the ice can break up around you. Literally in the dark, we had to take our tents down and move.''
        Sir Wally's preparations led to success. ''He was not surprised by these kinds of events,'' Dr. Koerner said. ''The sleds could carry the loads, and the tents were not too heavy and able to withstand any of the storms and the temperatures.''
        When the team arrived at the pole, the temperature was 50 degrees below zero.
      