
        Bill France Jr., who took over Nascar from his father when it was a regional stock-car racing attraction and transformed it into a multibillion-dollar enterprise with a national presence, died Monday at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 74.
        The death was disclosed Monday during the Fox telecast of the Autism Speaks 400, from Dover, Del. It was confirmed later on Nascar.com. No cause of death was given, but France had been in declining health since having a heart attack in 1997 at a Nascar race in Japan.
        Two years later, he learned he had cancer, the form of which he never disclosed. After undergoing surgery for a broken hip and later a triple bypass in 2002, he turned over his roles as chairman and chief executive of Nascar to his son, Brian, in 2003. France had led the enterprise for more than 30 years.
        His father, Bill Sr., founded the National Association for Stock Car Racing in 1947 and ran it until 1972, when he turned it over to Bill Jr., who became its president. A younger son, Jim, also became an executive.
        At the time, Nascar was largely confined to the South and had limited interest nationally. By 2003, when Bill Jr. stepped aside, Nascar had become a stunning marketing success, drawing national television audiences second only to those for National Football League games.
        In 1999, Nascar signed a six-year, $2.4 billion contract, starting in 2001, with NBC, TNT and Fox. Ten percent of the rights fee went to Nascar.
        The races proved exciting because the cars were tightly bunched and sometimes bumped at speeds exceeding 200 miles an hour. Their engines generated 750 horsepower, cost $75,000 each and typically lasted only one race.
        By 2003, the budgets of leading teams had climbed to $10 million, from $2 million in 1990, and teams collected as much as $15 million in corporate sponsorships. The dozens of annual races in Nascar's top series, the Winston Cup, paid tens of millions of dollars in prize money. Merchandise sales reached $2 billion a year. (In 2004, Nextel became the title sponsor of the series in a 10-year deal worth about $750 million.)
        Besides owning Nascar, the France family also has controlling interest in the publicly owned International Speedway Corporation. The corporation owns and operates many of the country's major tracks, including those at Daytona Beach; Talladega, Ala.; Darlington, S.C.; and Watkins Glen, N.Y. It shares its headquarters with Nascar in a Daytona Beach complex.
        France was known as a shrewd and iron-willed executive. In 2003, Jack Roush, a Nascar team owner, told The Los Angeles Times, ''The success of Nascar is that it has been the recipient of a two-generation benevolent dictatorship.''
        Whatever his method, France knew how to satisfy the track owners and the car owners. He once said: ''We've got just about all of them making money. There's nothing like making money to be happy.''
        William Clifton France was born April 4, 1933, in Washington. His father was William Henry Getty France, so the son was not actually a junior, although he quickly became known as that.
        In 1934, the father drove his wife, Anne, and his son to Florida, hoping to find work as an auto mechanic in Miami. They stopped in Daytona Beach, liked it and settled there.
        The father -- he was 6 foot 5 and known as Big Bill -- raced cars on the beach and started promoting races. In 1947, as The New York Times said years later, he created Nascar ''from what was little more than some moonshine runners getting together on Saturday night to see who had the fastest hot rod.''
        Bill Jr. got involved in his father's business as a young man and returned to it after attending the University of Florida in Gainesville and serving two years in the Navy. At various times at racetracks, he was a corner worker, flagman and chief steward. He dug post holes, parked cars, sold programs, repaired guard rails, worked in concession stands and took tickets.
        In the late 1950s, when the father cleared a tract of swampland and began to build Daytona International Speedway, which would become a showcase of the sport, the son helped by operating a road grader. He even raced a few times.
        ''Where I'm fortunate,'' Bill Jr. said, ''is that my father created this sport. I grew up in it.''
        Bill Sr. died in 1992 at 82. In 2000, Bill Jr. made Mike Helton, Nascar's senior vice president, the new president. When Bill Jr. retired as Nascar chairman in 2003 in favor of his son, Brian, he remained a vice chairman as well as the chairman of International Speedway Corporation.
        Besides his son and his brother, Jim, a vice chairman of International Speedway and the executive vice president of Nascar, France's survivors include his wife, the former Betty Jane Zachary, whom he married in 1957; a daughter, Lesa France Kennedy, the president of International Speedway; and three grandchildren.
        France's last public appearance was Feb. 12, before the Daytona 500 in Daytona Beach, where some of the top names in Nascar racing gathered to pay tribute to him at the Bill France Hot Dog Dinner.
        The legacy of the France family was also honored. ''It has carefully nurtured its sport,'' Robert Lipsyte wrote in The Times in 2001, ''into an enormously successful family entertainment that combines easily understood technology, appealing characters, theme-park ambience, endless collectibles and nostalgia with enough violence to make it true reality programming.''
        Correction:  June 6, 2007, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Bill France Jr., the former president of Nascar, rendered incorrectly the name of the organization. It is the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing, not the National Association of Stock Car Racing.
      