
        Don Herbert, who unlocked the wonders of science for youngsters of the 1950s and '60s as television's Mr. Wizard, died yesterday at his home in the Bell Canyon section of Los Angeles. He was 89.
        The cause was bone cancer, his son-in-law Tom Nikosey told The Associated Press in confirming the death.
        Mr. Herbert held no advanced degree in science, he used household items in his TV lab, and his assistants were boys and girls. But he became an influential showman-science teacher on his half-hour ''Watch Mr. Wizard'' programs, which ran on NBC from 1951 to 1965.
        Millions of youngsters may have been captivated by Howdy Doody and the Lone Ranger, but many were also conducting science experiments at home, emulating Mr. Wizard.
        ''Watch Mr. Wizard,'' which was aimed at youngsters between 8 and 13, received a Peabody Award in 1953 for young people's programming. More than 100,000 children were enrolled in 5,000 Mr. Wizard Science Clubs by the mid-1950s.
        After his children's program went off the air, Mr. Herbert remained a presence in TV science programming with general-audience shows like ''How About'' and ''Exploration.'' NBC revived ''Watch Mr. Wizard'' for one year in the early '70s. In the 1980s Mr. Herbert reprised his children's shows with ''Mr. Wizard's World'' on the Nickelodeon cable network. He became something of a TV celebrity beyond his lab as a guest of Johnny Carson, David Letterman and Regis Philbin and a panelist on ''Hollywood Squares.''
        Working in shirtsleeves on his TV laboratory set, Mr. Herbert aroused the curiosity of children in an informal way that turned sometimes arcane scientific conceptions into fun. ''What was really remarkable about Mr. Wizard was that he talked to the kids as if they were real people,'' said Frank Wilczek, a physicist at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton, N.J., in a 1990 interview while recounting informal approaches to teaching science.
        During the 1960s and '70s, about half the applicants to Rockefeller University in New York, where students work toward doctorates in science and medicine, cited Mr. Wizard when asked how they first became interested in science.
        Donald Jeffry Herbert was born in Waconia, Minn. He took part in dramatic productions at La Crosse State Teachers College of Wisconsin. After graduating in 1940 with a degree in English and general science, he acted opposite Nancy Davis, the future Nancy Reagan, in summer stock.
        After service as a bomber pilot in Europe during World War II, he worked as an actor, model and radio-show writer in Chicago, then developed ''Watch Mr. Wizard,'' which made its debut in 1951 on WMAQ-TV, the NBC affiliate in Chicago. The program later originated in New York and was eventually carried by more than 100 stations.
        Although Mr. Herbert had some scientific knowledge from his college studies, ''everything on the show I learned by doing it,'' he once said. He accumulated 18 file cabinets filled with notes.
        His hallmark was the use of common objects to illustrate scientific principles. He cut out sections of paper plates to illustrate an optical illusion, ran smoke through a soda straw to make air currents visible and shined a flashing light to represent the strength of radiation.
        ''If you used scientific equipment that's strange to the child, it's not going to help him or her understand,'' Mr. Herbert told the Voice of America's ''Our World'' program in 2006. ''So we used everyday equipment.''
        Mad magazine and the comedic pairing of Bob and Ray spoofed Mr. Herbert, to his delight. In fact, his experiments sometimes did go awry.
        ''Once I was supposed to pour two colorless fluids into a glass, and by the count of five the fluid was supposed to turn black,'' he once recalled. ''It was a complicated experiment in which many factors, like temperature and acidity, had to be just right for the fluid to turn black. Well, I think I counted to 20 before it changed. But even when things went wrong, we would always explain why.''
        Mr. Herbert continued to spread knowledge of science in his final years, reprising his original shows on DVDs.
        He is survived by his wife, Norma, and six children and stepchildren.
        Mr. Herbert was complemented by the youngsters he recruited to help with the experiments. One of them, Rita McLaughlin, Mr. Herbert's sidekick at age 14, became a soap-opera actress.
        ''What really did it for us was the inclusion of a child,'' Mr. Herbert told The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 2004. ''When we started out, it was just me up there alone. That was too much like having a professor give a lecture. We cast a boy and a girl to come in and talk with me about science. That's when it took off.''
        Mr. Herbert once said in an interview how ''all the kids were just terrific, but they ideally had to be around 11 or 12. Once they got beyond 13, they became know-it-alls.''
        Asked why he didn't use his own children on his programs, Mr. Herbert replied, ''Because then I couldn't fire them.''
        Correction:  June 22, 2007, Friday  An obituary on June 13 about Don Herbert, who appeared on television in the 1950s and '60s as Mr. Wizard, misstated the name of the institution in Princeton, N.J., with which the physicist Frank Wilczek was affiliated in 1990, when he was interviewed about informal approaches to teaching science and praised Mr. Herbert. It is the Institute for Advanced Study, not Studies.
      