
        Jim Clark, the former sheriff in Selma, Ala., whose violent, highly public attempts to maintain the status quo there in the Jim Crow era are widely believed to have contributed, however inadvertently, to the success of the voting rights movement, died Monday in Elba, Ala. He was 84 and had been living in a nursing home there.
        The death was confirmed by the Hayes Funeral Home in Elba.
        From 1955 to 1966, Mr. Clark was the sheriff of Dallas County, Ala., which includes Selma. His tenure was characterized by widespread violence against civil rights demonstrators, in particular black citizens trying to register to vote.
        On Mr. Clark's authority, protesters were routinely beaten and tear-gassed and on one occasion were led on a forced march. He was sometimes assisted in his work by a group of mounted volunteers, armed with whips and clubs, who came to be known as ''the sheriff's posse.''
        Mr. Clark was famous in particular for the events of March 7, 1965 -- known ever after as Bloody Sunday -- when peaceful black protesters in Selma, on their way to Montgomery, were beaten back by Alabama state troopers under the direction of Gov. George C. Wallace.
        Led by Mr. Clark, the sheriff's posse joined in the violence, riding into a sea of demonstrators as they tried to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge and attacking them with clubs and tear gas. Scores of demonstrators were injured. Televised around the nation, the events of Bloody Sunday were considered deeply influential in swaying popular attitudes toward the civil rights movement.
        A fleshy-faced bear of a man who stood 6-foot-2 and weighed 220 pounds, Mr. Clark strode through the civil rights era wearing a lapel button emblazoned with a single word: ''Never.'' A billy club, pistol and cattle prod often dangled from his belt.
        By the mid-1960s, Mr. Clark was considered one of the most controversial men in Alabama, if not the South. Staunch segregationists adored him. Blacks reviled him, and even many moderate segregationists were unsettled by the level of violence he regularly used. In 1965, as The New York Times reported, Mr. Clark was receiving 200 letters a day -- pro and con. Because of repeated death threats against him, he moved with his wife and their five children to the Selma jail for safety.
        ''What they want,'' Mr. Clark told The Times in 1965, speaking of civil rights demonstrators, ''is black supremacy.''
        Enshrined in the public memory for acts of brutality, Mr. Clark could be charming and even courtly in private, according to many news accounts of the period. But on civil rights, he remained steadfast till the end of his life. He told The Montgomery Advertiser last year, ''Basically, I'd do the same thing today if I had to do it all over again.''
        James Gardner Clark Jr. was born in Alabama on Sept. 17, 1922. In World War II, he was an engineer and gunner with the Army Air Force in the Aleutian Islands. Afterward, he settled in Dallas County, where he raised cattle.
        In 1955, after the death of the Dallas County sheriff, Mr. Clark was appointed by his friend Gov. James E. Folsom to fill the post and was later elected to two more terms.
        As sheriff, Mr. Clark soon became known for his regular intimidation of black would-be voters. In 1963, for instance, when the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee organized a ''Freedom Day'' in Selma to register black people, Mr. Clark dispatched a photographer to take pictures of the hundreds who showed up, threatening to send the photos to their employers. (At the time, only about 1 percent of eligible blacks in Selma were registered to vote.)
        Two years later, during a voting rights demonstration by black youth, Mr. Clark led the group, with the aid of cattle prods, on a forced march, making the protesters run faster and faster. Some eventually vomited from exhaustion.
        In another incident, widely televised, Mr. Clark punched the civil rights leader C. T. Vivian so hard he broke his own hand. On still another occasion, a news photograph captured Mr. Clark wielding his baton over a black woman's head.
        But it was Bloody Sunday that cemented Mr. Clark's reputation. After the marchers, led by John Lewis and the Rev. Hosea Williams, were attacked, President Lyndon B. Johnson called the day ''an American tragedy.'' The events prompted the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to lead a second, peaceful march in Selma two days later, on March 9.
        Bloody Sunday was considered a seminal force behind Johnson's signing of the Voting Rights Act on Aug. 6, 1965.
        The next year, Mr. Clark was defeated when he ran for re-election. He went to work selling mobile homes. In 1978, he and six others were indicted by a federal grand jury in Montgomery on charges of conspiring to smuggle marijuana. Mr. Clark was convicted and spent about nine months in prison, The Associated Press reported yesterday.
        Mr. Clark was divorced from his wife, Louise. He is survived by three sons, Jimmy, of Grove Hill, Ala., Jeff, of Luverne, Ala., and Johnny, of Quitman, Ga.; two daughters, Joanna Clark Miller of Selma and Jan Clark Buster of Birmingham; a brother, Charles, of Birmingham; a sister, Nelle Hause of San Antonio; 12 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        A replica of Mr. Clark's ''Never'' button is on display at the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, along with one of the batons used on Bloody Sunday.
      