
        Amy Sullivan, who as executive director of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., restored the finances of an institution long known for discovering significant playwrights early in their careers, died Sunday at her home in Old Lyme, Conn. She was 54.
        The cause was cancer, her husband, Bruce Josephy, said.
        Ms. Sullivan was executive director of the O'Neill Center from September 2003 until January. ''While never in danger of shutting down, we were going through some pretty red budget times when Amy took over,'' Ms. Sullivan's successor, Preston Whiteway, said yesterday.
        The center, which overlooks Long Island Sound, opened in 1964 to commemorate Eugene O'Neill and to find new playwriting talent. It brought significant early notice to playwrights like August Wilson, Wendy Wasserstein and John Patrick Shanley. The center's first executive director, George C. White, retired in 2000, and over the next three years donations slipped.
        Ms. Sullivan started or resumed several programs that revived private donations and secured grants from the State of Connecticut, Mr. Whiteway said. She restarted the Cabaret Conference, a festival held each August that introduces budding cabaret performers. She created the National Theater Institute, a summer training program for theater students.
        Under Ms. Sullivan's direction, Monte Cristo Cottage in New London, Conn., O'Neill's home in his youth and the setting for two of his most famous plays, ''Ah, Wilderness!'' and ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' was renovated through a $212,000 state grant. The cottage is a National Historic Landmark. Mr. Whiteway said that Ms. Sullivan's fund-raising skills brought in an estimated $750,000 in private donations. The center has an annual budget of about $2.5 million.
        Amy Patricia Sullivan was born in Newark on March 31, 1953. Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Catherine Zizza Sullivan, and a son, Dan.
        Ms. Sullivan graduated from Upsala College with a degree in literature and theater arts. After working as an assistant to several Broadway producers, then as a fund-raiser for several institutions, she became development director of the O'Neill Center in 1993.
        While she was executive director, the center produced ''In the Heights'' by Lin-Manuel Miranda and Quiara Alegría Hudes. The musical, with salsa and hip-hop tunes set in the Dominican community of Washington Heights, is now playing off Broadway.
        Correction:  June 16, 2007, Saturday  An obituary on Tuesday about Amy Sullivan, a former executive director of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., misstated the history of the National Theater Institute, a program of the center, and referred incorrectly to it. The institute was founded in 1970, more than 30 years before Ms. Sullivan became executive director at the center. She did not create it, and it is not a summer program. She added a summer session.
      