
        William Silver, whose 1975 application for ordination in the United Presbyterian Church -- the first by an openly gay man -- set off a continuing debate in the church over admitting homosexuals into the ministry, died on May 26. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of AIDS, said Dan Jennings, a friend.
        A grandson of Presbyterian missionaries in China, Mr. Silver hoped to follow them into the ministry when he entered the Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan in 1969. It was in his final year there, in 1973, that he came to terms with his homosexuality.
        Two years later, when applying to the Presbytery of New York for ordination as an assistant pastor at the Central Presbyterian Church on Park Avenue and 64th Street, he shocked committee members interviewing him by saying he was gay. ''It was like electricity had been sent through members of the committee as they sat upright, and we really didn't know what to do,'' Byron Shafer, one of the committee members, recalled in an oral history interview.
        The local body then asked the church's national leadership for definitive guidance.
        The answer came in 1978, when the church's general assembly voted to prohibit ordination of ''unrepentant'' homosexuals as ministers, elders or deacons. It cited the church's constitution, or Book of Order, which requires that its married officers remain faithful to their spouses and that its unmarried officers live chastely.
        The church, now known as the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), has continued to maintain this standard, voting as recently as last summer to uphold it.
        William David Silver was born in Pittsburgh in 1947 and grew up in Carnegie, Pa. He received a bachelor's degree in fine arts from Ohio Wesleyan University and a master of divinity from the Union Theological Seminary.
        Mr. Silver worked as a graphic and fine artist, as an organizer of art shows and street fairs, and as advertising research director at Architectural Digest, Bon Appétit and other magazines. He was active in civic affairs in Cherry Grove on Fire Island, where he edited and published a monthly publication.
        He is survived by a sister, Betsy Storey, and a brother, Jim, both of Fort Wayne, Ind.
        Mr. Silver remained involved in the church for a number of years after the general assembly vote, sometimes preaching at the Village Presbyterian Church. He left the church in the mid-1980s, disillusioned, he said, by its refusal to ordain gay ministers.
      