
        Larry Leon Hamlin, the founder and executive director of the National Black Theater Festival, a gathering for theater professionals and an influential showcase for artists, died Wednesday at his home in Pfafftown, N.C. He was 58.
        Mr. Hamlin's wife, Sylvia Sprinkle-Hamlin, said the death came after a long illness but did not state a cause.
        When he created the festival in 1989, Mr. Hamlin saw it as a way to bring together black theater companies from the South to talk about artistic and management challenges and to share new work. The event was an immediate success, drawing 10,000 people and attracting celebrities like Oprah Winfrey and August Wilson.
        Since then the festival, which takes place every two years in Winston-Salem, N.C., has grown to include 40 productions, an audience of 60,000 and an international lineup of artists. Denzel Washington, Dick Gregory, Ruby Dee and Sidney Poitier are among the artists who have been involved with the festival, which also serves as a place for performers to be seen by artistic directors and producers from around the country.
        ''There are many serious issues facing black theaters,'' Mr. Hamlin said in a 1989 interview with The New York Times. ''But now I believe there is a sense of unity, a sense that maybe we're getting one more chance.''
        Mr. Hamlin was born in Reidsville, N.C., on Sept. 25, 1948, the son of a factory worker. Although he was a theater lover from an early age, Mr. Hamlin went to Johnson & Wales University in Providence, R.I., to earn a degree in business administration.
        Even as he ran a small business, he was studying theater at Brown University. In 1979 he went home because of a family emergency and decided to stay, forming the North Carolina Black Repertory Company.
        The company, which is still active, attracted black performers from all over the country -- who often stayed in Mr. Hamlin's home -- to perform contemporary plays and classics.
        In the late 1980s, while doing research for a magazine article on black theater in the South, Mr. Hamlin was struck by how many black companies existed and how disconnected they were. Intent on starting a festival for those companies, Mr. Hamlin reached out to Maya Angelou, who became the first festival's chairwoman, and raised $500,000 through grants and contributions. The budget has since tripled.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hamlin's survivors include his mother, Annie Hamlin Johnson; two sisters, Sherrie Darlene Hamlin and Linda Maxine Moore; a son, Larente Leon Hamlin; and two grandchildren.
      