
        Lola S. Wasserstein, whose larger-than-life personality provided inspiration for sprightly maternal characters in the plays of her daughter Wendy, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        Her granddaughter Pam Wasserstein announced the death.
        Wendy Wasserstein had said that her mother inspired the character Tasha Blumberg, the aerobically inclined mother in the play ''Isn't It Romantic.'' Lola was also a model for the recently deceased mother who influenced the title characters' psychologies in ''The Sisters Rosensweig.'' And she was an influence on the character Holly Kaplan, who pushes for her daughter to find a boyfriend in ''Uncommon Women and Others.''
        Lola Wasserstein gave Wendy ample advice, which she eagerly passed on: ''Always look nice when you throw out the garbage. You never know who you might meet.''
        Lola Schleiffer was born in a village in Poland in 1918, immigrated with her family to New Jersey in 1931, then moved to Brooklyn and the Upper East Side. She married Morris Wasserstein, an inventor and businessman who died in 2003.
        Their daughter Sandra W. Meyer, a prominent marketing executive, died in 1998. Wendy Wasserstein died last year. Mrs. Wasserstein is survived by her daughter Georgette Levis, owner of an inn in Vermont, and her son, Bruce Wasserstein, a Wall Street magnate who helped lead protests against removing the nest of two red-tailed hawks from a cornice of his Fifth Avenue co-op apartment building. The female hawk was named Lola.
        Mrs. Wasserstein is also survived by 12 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 25, 2007, Monday  An obituary on Tuesday of Lola S. Wasserstein, the mother of the playwright Wendy Wasserstein and the inspiration for several characters in her plays, misstated her influence on the play ''Uncommon Women and Others.'' She was the model for the mother of the character Holly Kaplan, not for Holly Kaplan herself. The obituary also referred incorrectly to Holly. She complains that her mother -- not seen onstage -- is pushing her to find a boyfriend. It is not Holly who pushes her daughter to find a boyfriend. (Holly does not have a daughter in the play.) The obituary also omitted a survivor, a son, Abner Wasserstein.
      