
        Claudia Cohen, a high-profile gossip reporter for television and newspapers who was a frequent subject of the gossip columns herself, partly because of her marriage to, and remunerative divorce from, the billionaire businessman Ronald O. Perelman, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 56 and had homes in Manhattan and Easthampton, N.Y.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, said Chris Taylor, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perelman.
        Ms. Cohen was known for her aggressive pursuit of celebrity news and her ability to handicap the Academy Awards. She first came to public attention in the late 1970s as a reporter and editor for Page Six, the well-thumbed column of The New York Post. In the early '80s, she wrote a gossip column, ''I, Claudia,'' for The Daily News of New York.
        In recent years, Ms. Cohen was a regular correspondent, covering entertainment, for the syndicated talk show ''Live With Regis and Kelly'' and its predecessor, ''Live With Regis and Kathie Lee.'' She was previously an entertainment reporter for ''The Morning Show'' on WABC-TV.
        Claudia Lynn Cohen was born on Dec. 16, 1950, in Englewood, N.J. Her father, Robert, was president of the Hudson County News Company, a major distributor of newspapers and magazines.
        Ms. Cohen earned a bachelor's degree in communications from the University of Pennsylvania in 1972 and afterward was on the staff of More, a progressive journalism review. She joined Page Six as a reporter in 1977, serving as its editor from 1978 to 1980.
        In 1985, with her marriage to Mr. Perelman, now the chairman of Revlon, Ms. Cohen became a boldface name herself. (Their union was Ms. Cohen's only marriage; she was Mr. Perelman's second wife of four.) The couple were frequent guests at glittering parties and charity events in New York and the Hamptons, and Ms. Cohen was considered a crucial person to know if anybody who was somebody wanted to become even more of a somebody.
        The public scrutiny of Ms. Cohen's private life only intensified with her divorce from Mr. Perelman in 1994. As was widely reported, she received an out-of-court settlement of $80 million.
        Ms. Cohen is survived by her parents, Robert and Harriet Cohen of Englewood and Palm Beach, Fla.; a brother, James, of Alpine, N.J.; and a daughter, Samantha Perelman of Manhattan.
        After her divorce from Mr. Perelman, Ms. Cohen, a Democrat, was romantically involved for about a year with Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York. In early 1995, at the start of the relationship, Senator D'Amato called a press conference to announce that he was in love. He was, according to news reports at the time, the first senator in the history of the United States to do so.
      