
        Homer J. Stewart, an aerospace engineer and rocket propulsion expert who in 1958 helped launch the first successful American satellite, Explorer 1, while he kept tabs on rival efforts by the Russians, died on May 26 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 91.
        Dr. Stewart's death was confirmed by his family.
        In the late 1950s, he took a leave of absence from the California Institute of Technology to advise on the preparation of Explorer. Earlier, in October 1957, the Russians had launched their own experimental satellite, Sputnik, a notable technological triumph in what became known as the Space Race, the cold war rivalry for the first small steps into space.
        Soon after, Dr. Stewart was named director of planning and evaluation for the fledgling National Aeronautics and Space Administration, in charge of analyzing research and calculating rocket exhaust velocities needed to keep spacecraft aloft and on track.
        In 1959, he accompanied Wernher von Braun, the German rocket pioneer, in testifying before a Senate panel about the lagging performance of the United States in aerospace and missile development. Dr. Stewart told the panel's chairman, Lyndon B. Johnson, then a senator, that Russian missile guidance systems had become accurate enough to hit an American city from 5,000 miles away.
        The panel was also told that Russian space and missile technologies were a full 12 to 20 months ahead of their American counterparts. The senators were duly impressed, and they urged rapidly stepping up the pace of the ''national approach'' to defense and aerospace technology.
        Dr. Stewart later helped in preparations for another satellite, Pioneer IV, and made recommendations for planning what would become the Apollo missions to the Moon. By 1960, NASA had sketched the outline for a decadelong effort toward unmanned and then manned lunar explorations, as well as sending spacecraft to Venus and Mars.
        The son of a physicist, Homer Joseph Stewart was born in Lapeer, Mich. He graduated from the University of Minnesota and earned his doctorate in aeronautics at Caltech in 1940.
        Except for his two-year stint with NASA, Dr. Stewart remained for the rest of his career on the faculty at Caltech, where he became an emeritus professor of aeronautics in the 1980s. He was an early researcher at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the federally financed aerospace research facility managed by Caltech.
        In 1970, NASA awarded him a medal for exceptional service.
        Dr. Stewart is survived by two daughters, Katherine, of San Diego, and Barbara Mogel of Chesapeake Beach, Md.; a son, Dr. Robert J., of Burien, Wash.; two sisters, Mary Jane Postels of Nisswa, Minn., and Doris Larson of Chanhassen, Minn.; a brother, Robert, of Dallas; and two grandchildren.
      