
       Pegeen Fitzgerald, who, with her husband, Edward, conducted a radio talk show for 42 years and pioneered the at-home radio format, died of breast cancer Monday at her Manhattan home. She stated her age as 78 and also had a home in Kent, Conn.
        Pegeen Fitzgerald, who, with her husband, Edward, conducted a radio talk show for 42 years and pioneered the at-home radio format, died of breast cancer Monday at her Manhattan home. She stated her age as 78 and also had a home in Kent, Conn.
        ''The Fitzgeralds,'' subtitled ''Book Talk, Back Talk and Small Talk,'' was a radio institution, achieving at times an audience of 2 million listeners. It was broadcast mainly on WOR radio from the couple's 16th-floor apartment overlooking Central Park, and occasionally from their weekend homes in Hay Island, Conn., off Long Island Sound, and later from Kent, Conn., in the foothills of the Berkshires.
        Mr. Fitzgerald died in 1982, at the age of 89, after 52 years of marriage, and Mrs. Fitzgerald continued a talk show on WOR and later on WNYC, until last April when she took a medical leave.
        With ease and good humor, Mrs. Fitzgerald, a calm, homespun liberal, and Mr. Fitzgerald, a scholarly, theatrical conservative, bounced ideas, events and viewpoints off each other. Their casual preparation usually involved only glancing through newspapers and their mail. Cats and Commentary
        Their only script was commercials, which they themselves styled, and they delivered them unobtrusively and at random. Their commentary, punctuated by the purring of their many cats, concerned the doings of friends and acquaintances and oddities in the news, and included occasional comments designed to shock bluenoses. The couple occasionally bickered on the air, but with wit and affection, in an effort to project the reality of their long marriage.
        ''There is no easy way to describe what they do,'' Francis X. Clines wrote in The New York Times in 1979. ''They wool-gather and play off each other. They steep themselves daily in remembrances, using the airwaves as their Proustian bed.'' The husband often asked civility of the wife, and she responded by ''listening very carefully to him, correcting details, switching topics intuitively, reading the commercials elegantly and accurately.'' ''We're a true soap opera,'' she remarked to the reporter.
        The loyalty of many listeners who regarded the Fitzgeralds as friends or part of their family frustrated some broadcast executives who tried to take them off the air several times. This loyalty extended to listeners who sent them their cats when entering nursing homes and others who willed their pets to the couple, who often had 10 cats in their apartment and 100 at their weekend home. Headed Animal Protection Groups
        In Mrs. Fitzgerald's last years, she continued to maintain the Last Post, a shelter in Falls Village, Conn., and also aided many orphans, convicts and former convicts.
        She said she believed deeply in antivivisection and ethical vegetarianism, refusing to eat meat or fish or to wear a fur coat ''because I don't want any living thing killed for my own use or pleasure.'' She headed two animal groups as president of the Vivisection Investigation League and as executive director of the Millenium Guild.
        Mrs. Fitzgerald, a vivacious, stylish woman, has been described by friends as a gracious hostess who invariably kept champagne in her refrigerator for guests. From Portland to New York
        Pegeen Fitzgerald was born Margaret Worrall in Norcatur, Kan., the eldest of seven children of Fred Calvin Worrall and the former Jane Sweeney, who were of French and Irish ancestry. In Pegeen's early teens, the family moved to Portland, Ore., where she graduated from high school at 15.
        She attended the College of St. Theresa in Winona, Minn., but had to leave and seek work after two years when her father fell ill. She started to work in a Portland department store, rising from bookkeeper to advertising copywriter to assistant advertising manager. She married Mr. Fitzgerald in 1930.
        He worked as a newspaper reporter and as a movie publicist, and entered radio in 1933 as a master of ceremonies for a variety show. The couple went to New York in 1936 and he joined WOR, where he gained success with a program on books and current events. She, meanwhile, was the advertising manager of McCreery's department store but, after several years, also joined WOR, where she had a talk show and then, in 1940, joined her husband and began broadcasting from their home.
        Surviving are four sisters, Irene McAllister, of San Jose, Calif.; Cristine Sharkey, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; Eve Jane Mueller, of Portland, Ore.; and Mimi Findlay, of Martinez, Calif., and a brother, P. J. Worrall, of Alamo, Calif.
      