
       Robert Lekachman, a teacher of economics whose maverick views often set him apart from mainstream economists, died of cancer of the liver Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old.
        Robert Lekachman, a teacher of economics whose maverick views often set him apart from mainstream economists, died of cancer of the liver Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old.
        Dr. Lekachman, who wrote and lectured extensively, held the rank of distinguished professor at Lehman College of the City University of New York, where he had been on the faculty since 1973, and at the university's Graduate Center.
        Earlier Dr. Lekachman had taught at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, L.I., and headed its Department of Economics from 1965 to 1968. Before that he was on the faculty of Barnard College, Columbia College and the Columbia School of Business.
        Joseph S. Murphy, Chancellor of City University, said yesterday that Dr. Lekachman's ''legacy of intellectually rigorous analysis of the economy and the effects of government policy on the poor and working class should strongly influence the way scholars study economics in the future.'' Sought Social Justice
        Throughout his career Dr. Lekachman espoused a philosophy that sought to promote social justice simultaneously with economic growth. He advocated compassion on the part of government toward the underprivileged. His last published work, which appeared last week in The Nation magazine, was a cautionary article of advice to President-elect George Bush.
        ''He brought a liberal, left-wing, Marxist point of view to economics, but he was in no sense an ideologue,'' said Harold M. Proshansky, president of City University's Graduate Center. ''He never argued in generalities, and his openness and objectivity captivated even those who disagreed with his basic positions.''
        Dr. Lekachman was in demand as a public speaker, appearing frequently on television and radio programs dealing with public affairs, where his engaging manner and quick wit enlivened what has been called ''the dismal science'' of economics.
        Dr. Leonard Lief, president of Lehman College, noted that Dr. Lekachman ''identified strongly with New York City and particularly with the Bronx, where he taught.'' Critical of President Reagan
        Because of his illness, which was in remission until several months ago, Dr. Lekachman had taken a leave of absence for the fall semester but had recently asked to be scheduled for classes, his health permitting, in the spring semester.
        Dr. Lekachman's two most recent books, both critical of President Reagan and written in a pungent and polemical style, were ''Visions and Nightmares: America After Reagan,'' published by Macmillan in 1987, and ''Greed Is Not Enough'' (Pantheon, 1982), a critique of ''Reaganomics.'' Perhaps his most widely read books are ''A History of Economic Ideas'' (1959) and ''The Age of Keynes'' (1966), which were translated into several languages and used extensively as texts.
        He also wrote for such professional journals as The Annals of the Academy of Political Science, The Political Science Quarterly and The American Economic Review. He was a frequent contributor to and book reviewer for The New York Times, The Washington Post and other periodicals.
        Dr. Lekachman received numerous awards during his teaching career. In 1986, Change magazine selected him as one of 50 faculty members in the United States who have made major contributions to undergraduate education. He was cited for his ''willingness to take on freshmen, no matter how dismally prepared, and to challenge them with difficult texts and concepts, often succeeding in lifting these students to higher achievement than they had ever evinced.''
        In addition to economics, Dr. Lekachman taught sociology and accounting.
        Dr. Leckachman, who was a New York native, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Columbia College and also received his doctoral degree from Columbia University. In World War II he served in the Army in the Pacific theater.
        Dr. Lekachman is survived by his wife, the former Eva Woodbrey.
      