
       Former United States Senator Gordon Allott, who during 18 years in the Senate helped push through water projects instrumental to the economic development of Colorado and Arizona, died of cancer today. He was 82 years old and lived most of his life in Englewood.
        Former United States Senator Gordon Allott, who during 18 years in the Senate helped push through water projects instrumental to the economic development of Colorado and Arizona, died of cancer today. He was 82 years old and lived most of his life in Englewood.
        Mr. Allott died at Swedish Medical Center, where he was hospitalized Dec. 27, said Beverly Jacobsen, a medical center spokeswoman.
        In the Senate, Mr. Allott, a Republican, served on the Appropriations and Interior Committees. He was the Senate sponsor for the Colorado River Basin Storage Act of 1968, which provided for construction of five Colorado water projects and one in Arizona. The House sponsor was the late Representative Wayne Aspinall, a Democrat, with whom Mr. Allott worked closely.
        ''They got beat the same year at the start of the environmental age,'' said former Colorado Governor John Vanderhoof. ''But thank God for them because they cinched the future for Colorado.'' Lieutenant Governor
        Mr. Allott held public office for much of his adult life, culminating in his three terms in the Senate from 1955 to 1973. He lost a bid for a fourth Senate term to Democrat Floyd Haskell in 1972.
        Born in Pueblo on Jan. 2, 1907, Mr. Allott graduated from the University of Colorado in Boulder in 1927 and from its law school in 1929.
        In 1930, he moved to Lamar, where he practiced law and became Prowers County Attorney. He also served terms as Lamar City Attorney, District Attorney and Lieutenant Governor from 1951 to 1955, when he also served as vice chairman of the state Board of Parole.
        In World War II, Mr. Allott was a major in the Army Air Corps.
        Mr. Allott is survived by his wife, Welda; two sons, Roger of Aurora and Gordon Jr. of Littleton, and three grandchildren.
      