
       James F. Collins, a four-star general in the United States Army who in retirement served as president of the American Red Cross in the Vietnam War, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 83 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        James F. Collins, a four-star general in the United States Army who in retirement served as president of the American Red Cross in the Vietnam War, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 83 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        General Collins, who was born in the Bronx to Irish immigrant parents and was a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, had a 37-year career in the Army. In World War II, he saw duty in the Southwest Pacific in the Papua-New Guinea and Luzon campaigns, rising to become commanding general of an artillery corps in 1945.
        After the war, General Collins taught at the Command and General Staff School and at the Army War College and held Pentagon posts in personnel and manpower capacities. In 1954, he was made commanding general of Army forces in Alaska. In 1961, after commanding infantry divisions in the Pacific, he became commander in chief of all Army forces in the Pacific.
        He received several military honors, including the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star.
        Upon his retirement from the Army in 1964, General Collins assumed the presidency of the Red Cross. He arranged the broadening of Red Cross recreational services to Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine personnel in Vietnam and services to military hospitals throughout the Far East.
        In the six and a half years he was president of the Red Cross, General Collins presided over the expansion of blood services to civilians as well as to the military.
        His wife, the former Marian McLaughlin, whom he married in 1932, died in 1986. General Collins is survived by a daughter, Patricia C. Bowman of McLean, and two grandchildren.
      