
       John E. Lawe, president of the Transport Workers Union of America since 1985 and before that president of Local 100, which represents New York City's subway and bus employees, died of complications from cancer of the esophagus yesterday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 69 years old.
        John E. Lawe, president of the Transport Workers Union of America since 1985 and before that president of Local 100, which represents New York City's subway and bus employees, died of complications from cancer of the esophagus yesterday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 69 years old.
        An emigrant from Ireland, Mr. Lawe was the last of a series of Irish-born leaders of the Transport Workers Union, which has 100,000 members nationwide in transit and airline locals. He came to New York in 1949, at age 30, and got a job as a bus cleaner for the Fifth Avenue Coach Company, which was later absorbed by the Manhattan and Bronx Surface Transit Operating Authority, part of the New York City Transit Authority.
        In the 17 years he serviced and drove buses, he was active in Transport Workers Local 100, starting as a shop steward and then serving as a division recording secretary and chairman, a vice president and finally, in 1977, president of the local.
        In 1980, he led 35,000 transit workers in an 11-day citywide strike that paralyzed subway and bus service. In 1966, he had served on the T.W.U. negotiating committee in a citywide transit shutdown that resulted in the jailing of Michael J. Quill, then head of the union, and several other top leaders. Only Fourth Union President
        Mr. Lawe, whose shock of white hair and County Roscommon brogue became familiar to New Yorkers during strikes and other bitter disputes with city and Transit Authority officials, was only the fourth international president of the T.W.U. since its formation in 1934.
        Mr. Quill was the first, serving for 32 years until his death in 1966, followed by Matthew Guinan, who served until his retirement in 1979, and the late William G. Lindner, who served from 1979 to 1985. With Mr. Lawe's death, the remaining 10 months of his term will be served by George E. Leitz, the union's executive vice president; the union will hold its quadrennial convention in October. The four union presidents, all Irish emigrants, rose to power when the union membership was predominantly Irish, from the Depression into the 1960's.
        In addition to his T.W.U. duties, Mr. Lawe was second vice president of the New York City Central Labor Council and vice president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        Mr. Lawe, a protege of Mr. Guinan, established a reputation as a strong leader, winning intra-union battles that centered on differences in negotiating posture. Lacking the hot-tempered combativeness that was Mr. Quill's trademark, he was affable and conciliatory at the bargaining table, but displayed a toughness that left no doubt of his determination to gain as many of the union's demands as possible. Marshal of St. Patrick's Parade
        Looking back on the 1980 strike, which came only four months after he had won a hard-fought, four-way contest for re-election as president of Local 100, he said the walkout had had a purgative value. ''We had to get it out of our systems,'' he said.
        When the T.W.U. was fined $750,000 for defying court orders to end the strike, he said, ''It will break our treasury, but our union was not built on money but on backbone.''
        Mr. Lawe, who was born on Feb. 26, 1919, in Kilglass, Strokestown, was prominent in New York's Irish-American community and served as grand marshal of the St. Patrick's Day parade in 1987. The Grand Council of United Emerald Societies named him ''Irishman of the Year'' in 1986 for his work on behalf of the Roman Catholic minority in Northern Ireland.
        In 1986 he was a major force in the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations, which presented medals of honor to 80 Americans in a ceremony on Ellis Island. A Director of Bronx 2000
        Mr. Lawe was active in other community affairs as well, serving as a director of Bronx 2000, an economic development and neighborhood preservation program, and as a director of the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. He was general labor chairman of the Arthritis Foundation for the New York region.
        Mr. Lawe is survived by his wife, the former Mary Heaney; a son, Desmond; two daughters, Deirdre Behrens and Patricia Lawe; three brothers, Kevin, William and Desmond, and four sisters, Kathleen Bridie, Greta and Josephine.
        A funeral mass will offered Monday at 9:30 A.M. at St. Patrick's Cathedral.
      