
       The Panchen Lama, Tibet's most important spiritual leader after the Dalai Lama and a crucial figure in China's policy toward the region, died Saturday night during a visit to Tibet, China announced today. He was 50 years old. The official news organizations reported that he had died of a heart attack in his residence in Shigatse, now usually spelled Xigaze, the largest city in Tibet outside the capital, Lhasa.
        The Panchen Lama, Tibet's most important spiritual leader after the Dalai Lama and a crucial figure in China's policy toward the region, died Saturday night during a visit to Tibet, China announced today. He was 50 years old. The official news organizations reported that he had died of a heart attack in his residence in Shigatse, now usually spelled Xigaze, the largest city in Tibet outside the capital, Lhasa. It attributed the heart attack to fatigue resulting from the strains of presiding over the opening of an important new Buddhist shrine a week ago.
        His death removes the senior spokesman for Tibet within the Chinese Government, as well as an important mediator between officials in Beijing and independence-minded monks in Tibet. From a Tibetan point of view, there will no longer be an important religious leader lending legitimacy to Chinese rule over Tibet. Too High a Cost
        Although he was sometimes derided as a compliant figure, the Pathet Lama often spoke out strongly for Tibetan interests. Just a week ago, he delivered a fierce criticism of Tibet's role under Chinese authority. He was quoted in the official news outlets as saying that the benefits of development in the 30 years since the region was incorporated into China were outweighed by the price that had been paid.
        He added that some officials were repeating old mistakes, apparently an allusion to recent harsh treatment by the authorities of Tibetan demonstrators, including the shooting of protesters by the police in December.
        Nonetheless, his role as a conciliator was pivotal to Chinese-Tibetan relations. ''He was useful in shoring up Chinese legitimacy,'' an Asian diplomat said tonight. ''His death will give China cause for concern.''
        A Western diplomat added that the death ''might cause complications in the reconciliation process'' between China's Government and the Tibetans. Accused as Collaborator
        The Panchen Lama held senior positions in the Government and was a linchpin in the country's Tibet policy. Unlike the Dalai Lama, who fled China in 1959, the Panchen Lama never quite broke with Beijing and was regarded by some as tainted by collaboration.
        But he refused many times to denounce the Dalai Lama and in a speech in 1964 he called for Tibetan independence. He was subsequently denounced and demoted, and during China's Cultural Revolution from 1966 to 1976, he was tortured and imprisoned. In 1969 it was reported that he had died in prison.
        But he reappeared after the Cultural Revolution, and thereafter he maintained an uneasy peace with the Chinese authorities. Without advocating independence, he interceded on Tibet's behalf in the central Government and sometimes strongly criticized Chinese conduct in Tibet.
        Still, the Panchen Lama was highly valued by the Chinese authorities because he favored reconciliation and in recent years did not advocate independence. The reaction by Chinese officials to his illness was a sign of the premium they placed on him: On hearing he had had a heart attack, the Communist Party General Secretary, Zhao Ziyang, sent a team of cardiologists to Xigaze by a special plane.
        The official New China News Agency tonight praised him as ''a great patriot, noted statesman, devoted friend of the Communist Party of China, and outstanding leader of Tibetan Buddhism.'' The agency said his funeral would be carried out according to Buddhist traditions. Search for Successor
        The Tibetans are expected to search for the next incarnation of the Panchen Lama. The search would normally be conducted on the basis of hints left by the dying Lama, and it could take several years before a child is found who matches the description.
        The last time this happened was after the death of the ninth Panchen Lama in 1937. The 10th Panchen Lama was not even born until the following year, and in 1941 he was chosen as one of three candidates to be Panchen Lama. The young boy, who lived in Qinghai province, was sent to a monastery for training and worship. In early 1949, reportedly under Chinese pressure, he was confirmed as the 10th incarnation of the Panchen Lama.
        Panchen Lamas historically have often been closer to Beijing than Dalai Lamas, and this soon proved true of the 10th Panchen Lama.
        On Oct. 1, 1949, when the Communist victory on the mainland was assured and the Communist state founded, the Panchen Lama sent Mao Zedong a cable of congratulations. Well-Treated by Beijing
        Under the Beijing Government, he held many posts in China, including vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress and honorary president of the Chinese Buddhist Association.
        While the Panchen Lama commanded less reverence than the Dalai Lama, he was nonetheless deeply respected by Tibetans. In 1982, on his first trip back to Tibet in more than 15 years, he was mobbed by tens of thousands of friendly Tibetans. A week ago, when he opened the new Great Stupa at the Pashi Lhunpo lamasery in Tibet, 30,000 residents reportedly turned out for the ceremony.
        The stupa was built to hold the remains of the fifth to ninth Panchen Lamas, his predecessors. Their remains had been dismembered and thrown away by Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution, but most were recovered by local people, who cared for them.
      