
       Jozef Cyrankiewicz, the Polish Prime Minister who was toppled by the violent food-price riots of 1970, died Friday, official Polish newspapers said today. He was 77 years old.
        Jozef Cyrankiewicz, the Polish Prime Minister who was toppled by the violent food-price riots of 1970, died Friday, official Polish newspapers said today. He was 77 years old.
        The newspapers gave no cause of death.
        Mr. Cyrankiewicz served as Prime Minister from 1947 to 1970, with one 16-month break in the early 1950's between his two periods in office.
        Riots by workers over food-price rises in 1970 led to the ouster of the Communist Party leader, Wladyslaw Gomulka, and Mr. Cyrankiewcz was demoted to the ceremonial post of President in a purge of Mr. Gomulka's associates carried out by Edward Gierek, Mr. Gomulka's successor.
        Although he never became head of the Communist Party, the country's top post, Mr. Cyrankiewicz (pronounced tsee-rahn-KEH-vitch) stayed in the top power ranks for almost a quarter of a century. Survivor of Auschwitz
        Mr. Cyrankiewicz was born in 1911 in the southern town of Tarnow. He studied law and worked briefly as a journalist.
        During World War II, he served as a second lieutenant in the artillery reserve and was captured by the Germans in the brief campaign after the Nazi invasion of 1939. He escaped and joined the Socialist underground at Cracow, but was arrested in 1941.
        He survived four years in the Nazi concentration camp at Auschwitz. He became a Communist, turning to politics full time after the war.
        On Dec. 7, 1970, just days before the food-price riots, he and Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany signed the Warsaw Treaty that recognized the Oder-Neisse line as Poland's western border and dropped West Germany's claim to the Reich borders of 1937.
        The treaty helped allow for the detente process of the 1970's and gave Poland access to the industrial and money markets of West Germany, still its most imporant trading partner and holder of the largest share of its multibillion dollar foreign debt.
        After leaving office, Mr. Cyrankiewicz became president of Poland's Peace Committee and was not in public view again until last year.
        Mr. Cyrankiewicz was reported ill late last year.
      