
       Dr. Michael B. Shimkin, a researcher who helped establish the link between smoking and lung cancer, died of a stroke Monday at the Medical Center of the University of California at San Diego. He was 76 years old and lived in LaJolla.
        Dr. Michael B. Shimkin, a researcher who helped establish the link between smoking and lung cancer, died of a stroke Monday at the Medical Center of the University of California at San Diego. He was 76 years old and lived in LaJolla.
        Dr. Shimkin, who was born in Siberia, was a professor emeritus of community and family medicine at the university.
        He was with the National Cancer Institute when his population studies in the 1950's demonstrated a relationship between smoking and lung cancer.
        ''It was really among the first studies that began showing a strong link,'' said Leslie Franz, a university spokesman. ''His epidemiological work, population studies, showed a higher incidence of lung cancer among smokers.''
        Dr. Shimkin, who joined the San Diego faculty in 1969, was a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and the University of California Medical School at San Francisco. Research Began in 1930's
        He began researching the causes of cancer in the 1930's as a fellow at the National Cancer Institute. He remained there until 1963, when he moved to the Health Sciences Center of Temple University in Philadelphia. Dr. Shimkin also served with the United States Public Service from 1939 to 1963.
        ''He believed that the public does not clearly understand what is harmful and what is not with regard to cancer,'' said Dr. Cedric Garland, a cancer epidemiologist at San Diego. ''He tried to emphasize the importance of major factors such as smoking, drinking and diet over concerns about trace chemicals linked to cancer.''
        In a career that spanned five decades, Dr. Shimkin wrote more than 300 articles and books. Two books, ''Science and Cancer'' and ''Contrary to Nature,'' are considered classics in the field of cancer research.
        A native of Tomsk, Siberia, he came to the United States as a child in 1923 when his family fled the Soviet Union to escape the Bolshevik revolution.
        Survivors include his wife, Mary North Shimkin; two sons, Dr. Peter Michael Shimkin of Fairfield, Conn., and Philip North Shimkin of Teaneck, N.J.; and a daughter, Ann Mary Segal of Bethesda, Md.
      