
       Robert B. Kelly, a Navy PT boat commander whose exploits in World War II were chronicled in the best-selling book ''They Were Expendable'' and the film of the same name, died of pneumonia Monday at Howard County General Hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 75 years old and lived in Columbia.
        Robert B. Kelly, a Navy PT boat commander whose exploits in World War II were chronicled in the best-selling book ''They Were Expendable'' and the film of the same name, died of pneumonia Monday at Howard County General Hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 75 years old and lived in Columbia.
        He was a lieutenant and second in command to Lieut. John B. Bulkeley in Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron 3 when his PT-34 and another craft sank a Japanese light cruiser off Cebu Island in the Philippines the night of April 8 and 9, 1942. The lieutenant, who was wounded in the action, won the Navy Cross. He was cited for ''distinguished conduct and extraordinary courage in combat.''
        ''Despite extremely heavy shellfire opposition and the fact that the cruiser was screened by four enemy destroyers, the PT-34 closed to 300-yard range and made two successful torpedo hits on the enemy cruiser, finally sinking her,'' the citation said.
        On the morning of the 9th, the badly damaged PT-34 was attacked by dive bombers but Lieutenant Kelly maneuvered to beach the boat and remove his wounded crewmen to safety. All six members of the crew were killed or wounded in the action.
        The book ''They Were Expendable'' by William L. White told the story of Lieutenant Bulkeley and his squadron. It inspired a movie of the same name, in which the role of Rusty Ryan, played by John Wayne, was drawn from Lieutenant Kelly's exploits aboard PT-34.
        The month before the battle off Cebu Island, Lieutenant Kelly was commander of the lead boat in the squadron that evacuated Gen. Douglas MacArthur from Corregidor, where American forces had been trapped by the Japanese, and took them to Mindinao. For that effort he won a Silver Star for gallantry in action.
        Later in the war he won a second Silver Star as commander of a squadron that included PT-109, which was rammed and sunk under the command of Lieut. John F. Kennedy. In 1945, then-Lieutenant Commander Kelly commanded a destroyer in the invasion of Okinawa and won a Bronze Star.
        He retired from the Navy as a captain in 1961 and joined Martin Marietta's aerospace division. He later served as a counselor of vocational rehabilitation for the State of Maryland.
        Born in New York City, Captain Kelly was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy.
        Captain Kelly's first wife, Hazel, died in 1970. He is survived by his second wife, the former Barbara Lee Benedict; two sons, Capt. Robert B. Kelly Jr. of the Navy and Richard E. Kelly of Charlotte, N.C.; a daughter, Lisa Kelly of Berkeley, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      