
       William Haber, an economist who helped Jewish refugees after World War II as an adviser to the United States armed forces and for 25 years after that as president of the American Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training Federation, died Friday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89 years old.  Dr. Haber, who was a professor emeritus of economics and former dean at the University of Michigan, died of pneumonia at his home, said Avi Feinglass, a spokesman for the federation.
        William Haber, an economist who helped Jewish refugees after World War II as an adviser to the United States armed forces and for 25 years after that as president of the American Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training Federation, died Friday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89 years old.  Dr. Haber, who was a professor emeritus of economics and former dean at the University of Michigan, died of pneumonia at his home, said Avi Feinglass, a spokesman for the federation.
        Dr. Haber was active in Michigan government, serving as the director of the state's relief efforts in the Depression and on several panels, including one that spearheaded major changes in the state's tax system in the early 1960's. Born in Rumania
        From 1950 to 1975, Dr. Haber was the president of the federation's American branch and led the group through some of its effort to provide work and equipment for refugees from the Holocaust. He traveled extensively to inspect vocational institutions that the federation established in Israel, Europe and North Africa.
        He helped create an international arm of the federation, the World O.R.T. Union, and served as president of the union's central board from 1955 to 1980. The work of the international organization has included assisting Jews in nearly 50 countries, increasingly in technological fields.
        In an interview a few years after assuming his positions with federation, Dr. Haber said the organization's aim was to ''rebuild human lives and widen economic opportunities.''
        Born in Rumania on March 6, 1899, Dr. Haber came to the United States when he was 10 years old. He received a bachelor's degree in 1923, a master's in 1926 and a Ph.D. in 1927, all from the University of Wisconsin. He taught for a few years at Michigan State University before becoming a professor of economics at the University of Michigan in 1936. Advised Federal Agencies
        He wrote a dozen professional books and edited several others, on topics like industrial arbitration, collective bargaining and the postwar economic recovery in Europe. He was chairman of the Federal Advisory Council on Unemployment and was an economics adviser to several Federal agencies, including the War Manpower Commission and the office of War Mobilization and Reconversion.
        Dr. Haber's efforts on behalf of Jews who survived the Holocaust began with his service as an adviser to Gen. Lucius D. Clay, the commander-in-chief of the American Zone in Germany in the late 1940's.
        The American O.R.T. Federation created an award in Dr. Haber's honor in 1984, and it is presented annually to people who have contributed to the federation's work or aims. At the time of his death, Dr. Haber was honorary president of the federation and the international group.
        He is survived by his wife, Fannie; two sons, Alan, of San Francisco, and Ralph, of Highland Park, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      