
       Dexter Masters, a writer and an editor, died of bronchial pneumonia at St. John's Hospice in Springfield, Ill., yesterday. He was 80 years old and lived in Totnes, England.
        Dexter Masters, a writer and an editor, died of bronchial pneumonia at St. John's Hospice in Springfield, Ill., yesterday. He was 80 years old and lived in Totnes, England.
        One of the first to draw attention to the worldwide threat posed by the atomic bomb, Mr. Masters and Dr. Katherine May edited a book titled ''One World or None'' in 1946. In the book, many of the prominent scientists of the day, including Albert Einstein, Hans Bethe, Harold Urey and many members of the Manhattan Project - the effort to produce the first atomic bomb - discussed the implications of a weapon that could destroy the world.
        In 1955 Mr. Masters wrote a novel, ''The Accident,'' which detailed the last eight days in the life of an atomic scientist dying from radiation sickness. The book attracted international attention and was published in 13 other languages. Mr. Masters also wrote a series of radio programs on the bomb, for which he received a Peabody Award. Headed Consumers Union
        In 1958 he was named director of Consumers Union and served in that position until 1963.
        As director he also was in charge of the organization's magazine, Consumer Reports. He joined the magazine shortly after its founding in 1936 and headed the first task force to publicize the dangers of cigarette smoking. In the early years of Consumers Union, there was great resistance to the idea of a consumers' magazine dedicated to testing products and warning the public of shoddy or dangerous goods. The magazine was attacked as anti-capitalist, if not actually Communist, but eventually became a respected journal.
        Mr. Masters, a nephew of the poet Edgar Lee Masters, was born in Springfield. He graduated from the University of Chicago and worked briefly for Time magazine. Thornton Wilder, the novelist and playwright, had recommended him to Henry Luce, the publisher of Time. Mr. Masters also wrote for Fortune and was the first editor of the marketing trade journal Tide. He was 22 when he became the editor, and thus was something of a child prodigy among American editors. He held the position five years Posts in World War II During World War II he was associated with several organizations, including the Board of Economic Warfare and the Radiation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for which he developed and edited the classified publication Radar. He was also a consultant to the Office of Scientific Research and served on the communications staff of the Army Air Forces.
        After the war, Mr. Masters contributed to The New Yorker, The Saturday Evening Post, American Scholar and other publications.
        Mr. Masters's first wife, Christina Malman, died in 1959. He married the ballet dancer and writer Joan Brady in 1963. Surviving are his wife; his son, Alexander Wright Masters, and a brother, Dr. Thomas Masters, of Springfield.
        Correction:  January 7, 1989, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        The headline yesterday on an obituary of Dexter Masters, a writer and editor, misstated his nationality. He lived in England but was an American.
      