
       Eddie Heywood, the pianist whose highly stylized arrangement of Cole Porter's ''Begin the Beguine'' made his sextet one of the most popular jazz groups of the 1940's, died Monday at his home in North Miami, Fla. He was 73 years old.
        Eddie Heywood, the pianist whose highly stylized arrangement of Cole Porter's ''Begin the Beguine'' made his sextet one of the most popular jazz groups of the 1940's, died Monday at his home in North Miami, Fla. He was 73 years old.
        He had Parkinson's disease, later complicated with Alzheimer's disease, and he had been in frail health for the past five years.
        Mr. Heywood, who was born in Atlanta on Dec. 4, 1915, first attracted attention in the jazz world in 1939 when he was the pianist in Benny Carter's band. When the band broke up the following year, he became the house pianist at the Village Vanguard in Greenwich Village, where he led a trio and accompanied singers, among them the Revuers, a group that included Judy Holliday, Betty Comden and Adolph Green.
        He had early training as an accompanist from his father, who led the pit band in an Atlanta vaudeville theater. At the age of 12 he occasionally played piano in his father's band and accompanied such singers as Bessie Smith and Ethel Waters. When pictures with sound began replacing vaudeville, Mr. Heywood moved to New Orleans and then to Kansas City, Mo., where he was playing in Clarence Love's band when Mr. Carter heard him. Spurred by John Hammond
        In 1943, at the urging of John Hammond, the jazz authority whose interest had nurtured the careers of Count Basie, Billie Holiday and Benny Goodman, Mr. Heywood organized a sextet that included the trumpeter Doc Cheatham and the trombonist Vic Dickenson. The group played in a crisp, stylized manner that was an adaptation of Mr. Heywood's playing as a solo pianist.
        ''As a kid I was taught by my father, 'Where is the melody?' '' Mr. Heywood once said. ''So I used to play the melody strong and I'd play the little underpinnings in the holes of the melody. I would be the singer up top like I was a whole band.''
        He had been playing ''Begin the Beguine'' in this fashion as a piano soloist and he arranged it for his sextet in the same way. It was an immediate success and it set a pattern for the group's playing that appealed equally to jazz fans and followers of pop music. On Radio and Records in the 40's
        From 1943 to 1947, Mr. Heywood's sextet rode a wave of popularity during which he was heard on radio and records with Bing Crosby and appeared in two films, ''The Dark Corner'' and ''Junior Prom.'' At the peak of his success, his hands became paralyzed and he had to stop playing. After two years of therapy, he was able to use his hands again but his wife, Evelyn, had become pregnant and he was concerned about their finances.
        She reminded him that when Cole Porter had come to hear him play ''Begin the Beguine,'' the composer had said, ''I wish that I'd composed this the way that you play it.'' And then he had added, ''You're a born composer.''
        With this incentive, Mr. Heywood started composing. He wrote three hits in the 1950's - ''Land of Dreams,'' ''Soft Summer Breeze'' and his biggest success, ''Canadian Sunset,'' all of which he recorded with the arranger and conductor Hugo Winterhalter. The income from ''Canadian Sunset'' in 1956 enabled him to settle in Martha's Vineyard, Mass., where he continued his composing during the 1960's, writing more than 40 songs and a tone poem, ''Portrait of Martha's Vineyard.'' In 1971 he resumed his performing career until illness forced him to stop.
        He is survived by his wife and two sons, Edward Jr., of White Plains, and Robert, of Atlanta.
      