
       Donald Voorhees, for 28 years the conductor and musical director of the ''Bell Telephone Hour,'' one of the most popular musical programs in broadcasting history, died of pneumonia yesterday at Tomlin Memorial Hospital in Cape May Court House, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Stone Harbor, N.J.
        Donald Voorhees, for 28 years the conductor and musical director of the ''Bell Telephone Hour,'' one of the most popular musical programs in broadcasting history, died of pneumonia yesterday at Tomlin Memorial Hospital in Cape May Court House, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Stone Harbor, N.J.
        Virtually every week for 28 years -on radio from 1940 to 1959 and on television from 1959 to 1968 - Mr. Voorhees brought to millions of NBC listeners a mix of classical and popular music performed by leading virtuosos, including Fritz Kreisler, Jascha Heifetz, Arthur Rubinstein, Lily Pons, Ezio Pinza, Benny Goodman and Bing Crosby.
        Mr. Voorhees, a 6-footer with prematurely silver hair, was celebrated not only for musicianship, dedication and informal good humor but also for bringing out the best in guests. Sought to Maintain Balance
        He was painstaking in shaping a program that showed the guests to best advantage while maintaining a balance. ''You must have one or two selections to satisfy a high-brow concertgoer,'' he once remarked, ''yet you mustn't run too great a risk of losing the casual listener. Now and then you must program some new or overlooked piece that will intrigue your regular audience. This should be combined with a familiar selection with which the guest is identified by the public.''
        Mr. Voorhees won many awards and conducted on many other radio shows, including ''Du Pont's Cavalcade of America,'' for which he composed music. He also composed the telephone hour's ''Bell Waltz'' theme.
        He was born in Allentown, Pa., and studied the violin, piano and organ between the ages of 5 and 11, when he became a church organist. From 12 to 15 he was, successively, the pianist and orchestra conductor in a local theater, where Broadway shows were tested. When barely 17, he conducted the orchestra at the Broadway opening of a musical starring Eddie Cantor.
        Mr. Voorhees is survived by his wife, Marni; a daughter, Dorothy Taylor of Wilmington, Del.; a son, Dr. David, of Nantucket, Mass.; two stepsons, Owen Murphy of Ocean City, N.J., and Dennis Murphy of London; a stepdaughter, Susan Ballard of Greenwich, Conn., and a grandson.
      