
       Sir Thomas Sopwith, whose companies built the British Sopwith Camel plane of World War I fame, died yesterday at his manor house outside Winchester in southern England. He was 101 years old. His son, Thomas, said he died of old age after a ''marvelous life.'' He was an aircraft designer, yachtsman and aviator as well as an airplane manufacturing executive.
        Sir Thomas Sopwith, whose companies built the British Sopwith Camel plane of World War I fame, died yesterday at his manor house outside Winchester in southern England. He was 101 years old. His son, Thomas, said he died of old age after a ''marvelous life.'' He was an aircraft designer, yachtsman and aviator as well as an airplane manufacturing executive.
        In 1917, the Canadian air ace, Capt. Roy Brown, was flying a Sopwith Camel fighter when he shot down Germany's best-known fighter pilot, Baron Manfred von Richthofen, called the Red Baron. In the German blitz of London in World War II, Hawker Hurricanes built by Sir Thomas's company downed many of the German bombers.
        Sir Thomas, a restless, energetic man, made a large fortune and was able to finance two attempts to win the America's Cup in yachting, although neither succeeded. The Last of Eight Children
        Thomas Octave Murdoch Sopwith was born in 1888, the eighth child - hence the Octave - born to parents of seven girls. His father, Thomas Sopwith, was a civil engineer. Young Thomas was educated at the Seafield Engineering College.
        When he was 18, he learned to fly a balloon. By 22 he had taught himself to fly an airplane and held Britain's 31st aviator certificate. Reminiscing last year about his early flying, he said, ''We had a lot of crashes in those days, but, bless you, it was fun.''
        Sir Thomas raised money for his first airplane manufacturing company by stunt flying. He won a prize of $:4,000 (then $20,000) for a pioneering flight across the English Channel. In the next few years he made more than $28,000 by stunt-flying around Boston, New York and Chicago, and by 1912 was able to establish the Sopwith Aviation Company. He leased a roller skating rink and, until business grew, he rented the rink to skaters on Saturdays. Employed 2,000 Workers
        Fewer than 100 people worked at the Sopwith plant at the beginning of World War I, but in the next four years the plant grew until it had 2,000 workers.
        The various models of Sopwith military aircraft were given names like Camel, Snipe, Pup, Dolphin, Salamander, Cuckoo and Buffalo.
        All told, 6,000 Camels and more than 10,000 other Sopwith military planes were produced for use in World War I. The Camel was a flat-nosed, one-engined biplane - technically, a fighting scout aircraft - that first saw combat in 1917, the fourth year of World War I. The Sopwith interests required financial reorganization after World War I, when it was reduced to making pots and pans instead of airplanes. The Sopwith company emerged from this voluntary reorganization as the H. G. Hawker Engineering Company, named for the Australian flyer who had helped to design some of the Hawker planes.
        In 1935, after absorbing the Gloster airplane manufacturing concern in a merger, Sir Thomas acquired control of the Armstrong Siddeley Development Group, which manufactured higher-priced automobiles.
        The merged interests, of which Sir Thomas Sopwith was board chairman, became known as the Hawker Siddeley Group.
        The Hawker Hurricane was the backbone of the Royal Air Force's fighter squadrons at the beginning of World War II, and though it soon gave way to the faster, more modern Supermarine Spitfire, the Hurricane played a large role in the defeat of the Luftwaffe in the epic contest for control of British airspace in 1940.
        Sir Thomas was married twice, and both of his wives are deceased. He was knighted in 1953.
        He is survived by his son, Thomas, from his second marriage.
      