
       Nikos Psacharopoulos, artistic executive director and a co-founder of the Williamstown Theater Festival more than 30 years ago, died yesterday in the Virgin Islands. Mr. Psacharopoulos, who lived in New York and was 60 years old, had colon cancer and was vacationing on St. John Island after surgery, a festival spokesman said.
        Nikos Psacharopoulos, artistic executive director and a co-founder of the Williamstown Theater Festival more than 30 years ago, died yesterday in the Virgin Islands. Mr. Psacharopoulos, who lived in New York and was 60 years old, had colon cancer and was vacationing on St. John Island after surgery, a festival spokesman said.
        Under his energetic direction, the festival, in the theater of Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., presented 10 to a dozen plays each summer and drew major critics. From the start, the festival set out to be different from the routine escapist summer stock that was the domain of the straw-hat circuit.
        Mr. Psacharopoulos, in fact, avoided any presentation that might be shrugged off as commonplace for a theater in the country.
        ''There were so many Shakespeare Summer Festivals in operation that we chose to concentrate on Shaw, Anouilh and Chekhov,'' the director once said. The roster over the years also included works by Tennessee Williams, Bertholt Brecht, Thornton Wilder and Tom Stoppard. Mr. Psacharopoulos's eclectic theatrical interests and the respect for his talent attracted such performers as Frank Langella. Rosemary Harris, Blythe Danner and Colleen Dewhurst.
        Christopher Reeve, who at age 15 spent a summer as an apprentice at Williamstown, once told an interviewer: ''By staying here 30 years, Nikos has done what they couldn't do in Brooklyn or Washington or at Lincoln Center. He has managed to achieve a national theater.'' At Yale Since 1955
        The director, a native Athenian, moved to the United States in 1947 and graduated from Oberlin College in 1951. Three years later he received a Master of Fine Arts Degree in theater direction from the Yale Drama School. In 1955, he joined the faculty of Yale's undergraduate theater studies department, where he remained at his death.
        Yesterday, Lloyd Richards, dean of the Yale School of Drama and artistic director of the Yale Repertory Theater, said of Mr. Psacharopoulos, ''A gifted director, writer, and educator, he leaves us a legacy of excellence in artistry.''
        In addition to his work in New England, Mr. Psacharopoulos was a frequent contributor to productions in New York. Last March he directed the Circle in the Square Theater's production of Tennessee Williams's ''Streetcar Named Desire.'' He also directed Lincoln Kirstein's production of ''Play of Daniel'' for the New York Pro Musica. He directed presentations of the New York City Opera, including the company's production of ''Lizzie Borden,'' and directed television productions.
        Mr. Psacharopoulos is survived by a sister, who lives in Athens. His fiancee was Jean Hackett, of New York. A date for a memorial service will be announced.
      