
       Seth M. Milliken, a lawyer who spent his career as a pro bono adviser to nonprofit groups, primarily working on housing for the poor, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Milliken was on the board of the New York City Mission Society, where he founded a school tutorial program in East Harlem in 1964.
        Seth M. Milliken, a lawyer who spent his career as a pro bono adviser to nonprofit groups, primarily working on housing for the poor, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Milliken was on the board of the New York City Mission Society, where he founded a school tutorial program in East Harlem in 1964. He also founded a legal clinic to assist East Harlem residents with housing and social services.
        He and his wife, Gloria, were co-founders, in 1969, of Housing Conservation Coordinators, which helps low-income tenants in Clinton.
        In 1973, Mr. Milliken founded the Association for Neighborhoods and Housing Development, a citywide program that provides technical assistance, information and training for 50 neighborhood housing and social-service groups.
        In 1985, again with Mrs. Milliken, he was a co-founder of the Eastside Improvement Society, which works with low-income residents of tenements and older buildings on the East Side.
        Mr. Milliken was born in Manhattan and graduated from Yale University and the Columbia University Law School. He had been on the boards of the World Federalist Association, the Fund for New Priorities, Physicians for Social Responsibility, the Center for New York City Affairs at the New School for Social Research and the International Society of General Semantics.
        In addition to his wife, surviving are two brothers, Minot, of Manhattan, and John, of East Blue Hill, Me.; two sisters, Alida Camp of East Blue Hill, and Martha Nicholas of West Chester, Pa.; two stepsons, Arthur A. Knapp of Tinton Falls, N.J., and Ashley A. Knapp of Seattle, and four step-grandchildren.
        A service will be held tomorrow at 4 P.M. in the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 921 Madison Avenue.
      