
       Bruce Chatwin, a British author whose first book, ''In Patagonia,'' published only a decade ago, established him as one of his generation's ranking travel writers and an elegant literary craftsman and storyteller, died Tuesday in a hospital in Nice, France. He was 48 years old and had been in failing health for more than five years.
        Bruce Chatwin, a British author whose first book, ''In Patagonia,'' published only a decade ago, established him as one of his generation's ranking travel writers and an elegant literary craftsman and storyteller, died Tuesday in a hospital in Nice, France. He was 48 years old and had been in failing health for more than five years.
        In a 1987 interview Mr. Chatwin said that during a trip to western China in the early 1980's he had contracted a rare and debilitating bone marrow disease, an ailment he dismissed with the comment, ''Hazards of travel - rather an alarming one.''
        In recent months Mr. Chatwin had been confined to a wheelchair and required periodic blood transfusions. He and his wife, Elizabeth, had been living in the south of France.
        The writer's wanderlust had taken him to remote corners of the world -to Timbuktu and Cameroon, several South American countries, Pakistan, the Soviet Union, Niger, China and the Sudan, to name a few of the countries he visited. Travel As Tyranny
        In addition to his travel writing, Mr. Chatwin was also praised by critics for his three novels, the last of which, ''Utz,'' was published in the United States by Viking only last week. At that time he was quoted in The New York Times Book Review as saying that, for him, travel had become a form of tyranny. ''As you go along, you literally collect places,'' he said. ''I'm fed up with going to places, I shan't go to anymore.''
        Writing about ''Utz'' - the novel's title is the name of its protagonist, an art collector - in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani observed that ''the novel begins as the story of an art collector, then opens out to become an examination of art - its ability to confer immortality and its ability to become a substitute for life.''
        Mr. Chatwin, who in 1968 walked away from a brilliant future as an expert on Impressionist art and a directorship of the auction firm of Sotheby's, produced many newspaper and magazine articles, but in a relatively brief career as a writer published only five books, three of them novels. Admired and Envied
        But his talents were widely admired, as the critic and novelist Andrew Harvey noted in a New York Times review of Mr. Chatwin's last travel book, ''The Songlines'' (1987), a study of Australia's nomadic aborigines published by Viking.
        ''Nearly every writer of my generation in England has wanted, at some point, to be Bruce Chatwin,'' Mr. Harvey wrote, ''wanted to be talked about, as he is, with raucous envy; wanted, above all, to have written his books.''
        Charles Bruce Chatwin, born on May 13, 1940, was the son of Charles Leslie Chatwin and the former Margharita Turnell. During World War II, he recalled in 1983, his father was off with the Royal Navy and ''because we had neither home nor money, my mother and I drifted up and down England, staying with relatives and friends.'' It was the beginning of a lifetime of wandering. A Porter at Sotheby's
        Mr. Chatwin's parents wanted him to study architecture, which he did for a time, and he also tried briefly to obtain employment as an actor. Finally, in 1958, when he was 18 years old, he went to work as a porter at Sotheby's, the fine-arts auctioneers in London's Bond Street.
        ''I learned about Chinese ceramics and African sculptures, I aired my scanty knowledge of the French Impressionists, and I prospered,'' he said years later. ''Before long I was an instant expert, flying here and there to pronounce, with unbelievable arrogance, on the value or authenticity of works of art.''
        In 1965 Mr. Chatwin, at the age of 25, married an American, Elizabeth Chanler, who was to share his enthusiasm for travel, although they seldom traveled together. That same year he also became the youngest director ever at Sotheby's, but having spent his summers abroad, he was growing restive. He quit Sotheby's, which had just offered him a partnership, and enrolled at Edinburgh University to study archeology. 'Have Gone to Patagonia'
        When he was 33 Mr. Chatwin was hired by the magazine of The Sunday Times of London, which allowed him to go anywhere he chose to get material for articles on a wide variety of subjects.
        On an impulse, he decided to go to South America and when he got there severed himself from the newspaper with a cable: ''Have gone to Patagonia.'' During a six-month stay, in which, he said, he walked the length and breadth of the desolate lower third of Argentina and part of Chile, he took notes for his first, enthusiastically received book, ''In Patagonia,'' published in 1980 by Summit Books.
        In the book Mr. Chatwin exhibited a gift for precise description: ''The Cerro de los Indios was a lump of basalt, flecked red and green, smooth as patinated bronze and fracturing in linear slabs.''
        He also demonstrated an offbeat talent for presenting information: ''The history of Buenos Aires is written in its telephone directory. Pompey Romanov, Emilio Rommel, Crespina D. Z. de Rose, Ladislao Radziwil, and Elizabeta Marta Callman de Rothschild - five names taken at random from among the R's - told a story of exile, desolation, disillusion, and anxiety behind lace curtains.''
        Mr. Chatwin's second book, ''The Viceroy of Ouidah,'' published in 1980 by Summit Books, was a gory novel based on the true story of a Brazilian slave trader's adventures in Dahomey (now Benin) in the early 19th century. ''On the Black Hill,'' another novel, was a departure for its author, for its action was concentrated almost entirely on a farm on the Welsh-English border.
        ''What Am I Doing Here?,'' a collection of Mr. Chatwin's essays, will be published in the fall by Viking.
        He is survived by his wife.
      