
       John Wood Brooks, a retired chief executive and chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. He was 71 years old.
        John Wood Brooks, a retired chief executive and chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. He was 71 years old.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Brooks led the chemical and fiber manufacturing company through severe market changes and financial upheavals. He helped restructure the corporation, cutting the payroll and increasing productivity.
        A graduate of the Groton School and Harvard University, Mr. Brooks held several sales positions in the fibers industry before joining Celanese in 1955 as merchandise manager. Previously, he was associated with the Spring Fibers Company, Deering Milliken & Company and the former Nashua Manufacturing Company.
        Mr. Brooks became vice president and general manager of the fibers division of Celanese in 1956 and a year later was named president of the newly formed Celanese Fibers Company. He was named executive vice president of the overall corporation in 1960, a director in 1961 and president in 1965. Retired in 1982
        In 1968, he was named chief executive officer, the third in the company's history. In 1971 he was named chairman of the board, a position he held until June 1980, when he stepped down as chairman but continued serving as a board member. After retiring in 1982, he remained chairman of the corporation's executive committee.
        At Celanese, Mr. Brooks often arrived at his desk at 7 A.M. Associates said the company was his vocation and his hobby.
        The company is now known as the Hoechst-Celanese Corporation, which was formed in 1987 through a merger of Celanese with the American Hoechst Corporation of Somerville, N.J.
        Mr. Brooks also served as a director of several other companies, including the Bankers Trust Corporation, ACF Industries, Dun & Bradstreet, and Anaconda. He was also a trustee of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a son, John, of Wilton, Conn.; four daughters, Sylvia von Boetzelaer of Amsterdam, Anne Strong of Cambridge, Mass., Selina Strong of Fairfield, Conn., and Mary Tilghman of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, A. Oakley Brooks, and a sister, Evelyn Hutchins, both of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
      