
       Gen. John Knight Waters of the Army, retired, a highly decorated veteran of World War II, died of heart failure Monday at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Potomac, Md.
        Gen. John Knight Waters of the Army, retired, a highly decorated veteran of World War II, died of heart failure Monday at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Potomac, Md.
        General Waters, a 1931 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, was a son-in-law of Gen. George S. Patton Jr. In 1943, as a lieutenant colonel commanding a tank unit in combat in Tunisia, he was captured and taken prisoner by the Germans.
        In the closing days of the war in Europe, Colonel Waters, still a prisoner of war, was one of several hundred Americans at a prison camp near Hammelburg, Germany.
        As the Allies advanceed, he was sent out with other officers to negotiate with an oncoming American tank unit; German soldiers shot and severely wounded him. Freed by Third Army Unit
        The American force was routed, but a week later another American unit captured the camp. The liberators were part of the Third Army commanded by General Patton, who said he did not know his son-in-law was in the camp.
        Colonel Waters spent a year recuperating from his wounds.
        After returning to duty, he served as military aide to Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson, commanded various armored division units in the United States and Korea, was chief of the Military Assistance Staff in Yugoslavia and was commanding general of the Continental Army Command, responsible for ground defenses across the nation. Chief at West Point
        In 1951 he was commandant of cadets at West Point. He retired from the Army, a full general, in 1966 as commander of the United States Army of the Pacific.
        He was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star, with clusters, the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, with clusters, the Knight Commander Order of the British Empire and the Croix de Guerre with palm.
        His first wife, the former Beatrice Patton, died in 1952. He is survived by his second wife, Anne McKinley Waters, of Potomac, Md.; two sons, John, of Easton, Md., and George, of Baton Rouge, La.; three stepdaughters, Brandreth McKinley Cole of Alexandria, Va., Courtenay Griffin of Shepherdstown, W.Va., and Allison McKinley of Portland, Ore. and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 14, 1989, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        A headline in some editions yesterday on the obituary of John Knight Waters, a retired Army general, misstated a position he held at the United States Military Academy. He was commandant of cadets, not Superintendent of the Academy.
      