
       Jerome Doyle, a corporate lawyer who in retirement donated his services as the public defender for the Barnstable County (Mass.) District Court, died of heart failure Monday at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 79 years old and had lived in Osterville, Mass., since retiring from the Manhattan law firm of Cahill Gordon &
        Jerome Doyle, a corporate lawyer who in retirement donated his services as the public defender for the Barnstable County (Mass.) District Court, died of heart failure Monday at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 79 years old and had lived in Osterville, Mass., since retiring from the Manhattan law firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel.
        Mr. Doyle had several careers. After graduating from Boston College and Yale University Law School, he became a special agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1935.
        In 1938, he was appointed an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, under John T. Cahill.
        He was named director of the Naval Civilian Police in 1940, charged with protecting shipyards and shore establishments for the Navy. He rejoined the F.B.I. in 1941, where he was director of the special intelligence section that deployed covert agents to Latin America.
        In 1945, Mr. Doyle joined his former boss at the latter's law firm of Cahill Gordon, where he became a senior partner. At the firm in the 1950's, he headed an internal investigation of television quiz show scandals at NBC.
        He was named special counsel to the State Harness Racing Commission by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey, investigating race track corruption in 1953.
        He retired from the firm in 1975 and moved to Osterville, where he served as the Barnstable County public defender, a pro bono position. In 1987, he received the Massachusetts Bar Association's Community Service Award. He retired as public defender last year.  Surviving are three daughters, Constance, of Manhattan, Tracey, of Boston, and Aidan Fogarty of Nashville; a son, J. Griffin, of Chevy Chase, Md.; four brothers, Richard, of Honolulu, Kevin, of San Francisco, John, of Weston, Conn., and Michael, of East Brunswick, N.J.; two sisters, Ann Boukowski of Buffalo and Brenda Doyle of the Bronx, and four grandchildren.
      