
       Karl Geiringer, a leading figure in musicology since the 1930's, died Tuesday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., from complications arising from a fall. He was 89 years old and lived in Santa Barbara.
        Karl Geiringer, a leading figure in musicology since the 1930's, died Tuesday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., from complications arising from a fall. He was 89 years old and lived in Santa Barbara.
        Mr. Geiringer was born in Vienna, where he studied composition and musicology. He took his doctorate from the University of Vienna in 1922 with a dissertation on musical instruments in Renaissance painting that was republished as a book in 1979. In the late 1920's he began the editorial work that continued throughout his life, and in 1930 he became curator of the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde in Vienna.
        In this position he set about bringing into order vast amounts of primary source material relating to the greatest masters of German music. He drew on the material for a series of books that have remained essential reading for musicians and scholars.
        ''Brahms: His Life and Works,'' published by Houghton Mifflin in 1936 and expanded at various later dates, drew on more than 1,000 letters to the composer, extensive sketches and even a few minor compositions not known to the musical world before Mr. Geiringer unearthed them. He also brought to light some 35 unpublished songs of Hugo Wolf that had fallen into a legal limbo as a result of contractual problems. Major Projects
        It was Mr. Geiringer's habit to take on the largest topics; his other major books are ''Haydn: A Creative Life in Music,'' published in 1946 by W. W. Norton; ''The Bach Family: Seven Generations of Creative Genius'' (Oxford University Press, 1954), and ''Johann Sebastian Bach: The Culmination of an Era,'' written with Irene Geiringer and published in 1966 by Oxford.
        In 1938, Mr. Geiringer went to London, where he taught at the Royal Conservatory of Music and broadcast for the BBC, and a year later he joined the great wave of refugees from Hitler that changed the face of American higher education (musicology not least). He taught first at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., then spent 21 years at Boston University. He moved in 1962 to Santa Barbara to teach at the University of California there.
        Over the years he also published numerous musicological articles and edited works by composers major and minor. In 1973 he became Professor Emeritus but continued to teach each year; this spring he was to have offered a course in Bach's cantatas. He was also at work on articles about C. P. E. Bach and Beethoven at the time of his death.
        Mr. Geiringer was twice president of the American Musicological Society and was elected in 1959 to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by his second wife, the pianist Bernice Geiringer; two sons, Martin and George, and four grandchildren.
      