
       Michael V. Forrestal, an international lawyer and former Government official who frequently served as an intermediary seeking to improve relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, died of a ruptured aneurysm Wednesday. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Michael V. Forrestal, an international lawyer and former Government official who frequently served as an intermediary seeking to improve relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, died of a ruptured aneurysm Wednesday. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Forrestal, a longtime patron of the Metropolitan Opera, was stricken while attending a meeting of the committee searching for a director to succeed Bruce Crawford, who will leave the post this year. He was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center, where he was pronounced dead.
        At his death, Mr. Forrestal was a senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Shearman & Sterling, which specializes in international finance and the abritration of international disputes. Much of his work centered on the oil and gas business and for more than two decades he was legal adviser to Sonatrach, the Algerian national oil company.
        For many years, Mr. Forrestal, who was a son of James V. Forrestal, the first United States Secretary of Defense, acted in a quiet way to increase friendly contacts between the superpowers. From 1978 to 1980 he was president of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council. In the years since then he continued to promote trade between the countries, most recently in the development of the American Trade Consortium, a nonprofit organization of American companies seeking to arrange joint ventures with Soviet commercial interests. Commissioned at 18
        Mr. Forrestal's interest in foreign affairs, and in the Soviet Union in particular, dated from his naval service. He received a naval commission in 1946, at the age of 18, and was appointed an assistant naval attache in Moscow under Ambassador W. Averill Harriman.
        He also served as secretary to the Quadripartite Naval Directorate of the Allied Control Council in Berlin and to the Tripartite Naval Commission, also in Berlin. From 1948 to 1950, he was deputy director of the the East-West Trade Division of the United States European Cooperation Administration.
        From 1962 until 1965, while a member of the senior staff of the National Security Council under McGeorge Bundy, President John F. Kennedy's adviser on national security, Mr. Forrestal dealt with Asian issues and was a participant in early decisions relating to the United States military presence in Vietnam.
        Born in New York, he graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy before joining the Navy. He attended Princeton briefly in 1949 before earning his law degree from Harvard four years later. He joined Shearman & Sterling in 1953 and became a partner in 1960. An Avid Sailor
        A man of many interests, Mr. Forrestal was an avid sailor, participating in many voyages along the East Coast of the United States, in the Caribbean and in other parts of the world.
        His lifelong interest in young people was reflected in his service as president of the board of trustees of Phillips Exeter.
        At his death, Mr. Forrestal was a trustee of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and a director of the Institute for East-West Security Studies. In addition to serving as chairman of the executive committee of the Metropolitan Opera Association, he was a director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
        Mr. Forrestal is survived by a niece, Francesca C. Forrestal. Alexandra Whitney, for many years a friend and companion of Mr. Forrestal, said yesterday that a memorial service for him would be held next Wednesday at St. Thomas Episcopal Church on Fifth Avenue at 53d Street.
      