
       Marshall Harvey Stone, a prodigious and influential American mathematician, died Monday in Madras, India, apparently of a stroke. Dr. Stone, who was 85 years old, had gone to India to attend a music festival.
        Marshall Harvey Stone, a prodigious and influential American mathematician, died Monday in Madras, India, apparently of a stroke. Dr. Stone, who was 85 years old, had gone to India to attend a music festival.
        Dr. Stone was a professor emeritus at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst and was known for his work synthesizing diverse areas of abstract mathematics, including analysis, algebra and topology.
        He was a recipient of numerous academic honors, including the National Medal of Science, which he won in 1983. He held seven honorary degrees, was a member of the National Research Council and was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        ''Simply stated, Professor Stone was one of the greatest American mathematicians of this century,'' said Larry N. Mann, head of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Massachusetts. ''And his death will be mourned by mathematics colleagues as well as scientists throughout the world.''
        He ''was a really great mathematician who made a number of decisive contributions,'' said Saunders Mac Lane, a mathematician at the University of Chicago. 'Ambassador to Mathematicians'
        From 1945 to 1952, Dr. Stone was chairman of the mathematics department at the University of Chicago.
        During his tenure, he ''completely renewed the department,'' Dr. Mac Lane said, ''making it best department in mathematics in the country in that period.''
        He ''did it by thinking deeply about what it takes to make a great department and by hiring the very best people,'' Dr. Mac Lane said.
        Dr. Stone, who loved to travel, ''was sort of an international ambassador to mathematicians around the world,'' Dr. Mac Lane said. In addition, Dr. Mac Lane said, Dr. Stone later helped revive the International Mathematicians Union, which had languished after World War II, and was its president from 1952 to 1954. Later, as a member of several international unions, he helped improve the international teaching of mathematics.
        Dr. Stone was born April 8, 1903, in New York City. He received an undergraduate degree from Harvard University when he was 18 and a Ph.D. in mathematics from Harvard when he was 23. He had academic appointments at several leading universities, including Harvard, Yale and Columbia, and was president of the American Mathematical Society in 1943.
        Dr. Stone was a son of Harlan Fiske Stone, a Chief Justice of the United States. He is survived by his wife, Raviojla Kostic, of Amherst; three daughters, Doris Foster, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; Cynthia Ely, of Washington, and Phoebe Liebig, of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Svetlana Kostic-Stone, of New York; a brother, Lauson Harvey Stone, of Brooklyn; six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      