
       Long Island faces a paradox of power, political and electrical, of national consequence. Its generating capacity has so narrow a margin of safety that blackouts could begin this summer. A remedy is at hand in the form of Shoreham, the Long Island Lighting Company's 800-megawatt nuclear reactor, which is already operating safely at low power and ready to move toward full power as soon as it gets a license from dawdling nuclear regulators in
        Long Island faces a paradox of power, political and electrical, of national consequence. Its generating capacity has so narrow a margin of safety that blackouts could begin this summer. A remedy is at hand in the form of Shoreham, the Long Island Lighting Company's 800-megawatt nuclear reactor, which is already operating safely at low power and ready to move toward full power as soon as it gets a license from dawdling nuclear regulators in Washington.
        But New York's Governor, Mario Cuomo, is determined to block the reactor from opening. He has orchestrated a campaign to coerce Lilco into scrapping Shoreham, while laying off much of the cost onto American taxpayers. It could all come to a head this week in negotiations over a court case. If so, if a deal is reached to dismantle Shoreham, the public will know whom to hold chiefly accountable: Governor Cuomo.
        He has hardly been alone in his naysaying. Long Islanders have for years made opposition to Shoreham a credo for election to political office. But had he wished to, the Governor could have made a different choice possible, by helping educate voters to overcome exaggerated fears and by demanding extra precautions to assure the reactor's safety. Instead he has defaulted in the responsibility to offer political leadership.
        The latest scene in this strange tragedy opened last fall when Mr. Cuomo hesitated to doom Shoreham singlehandedly. He wanted to share the political responsibility with the Legislature. The legislators refused, contending that his closure plan was too generous to Lilco.
        They also know, but cannot say, that a major new source of electric power is urgently needed, that Shoreham is the only one immediately available and that, after thorough inspection and improvement, it is probably safer than most of the reactors Mr. Cuomo's government already helps to operate in New York.
        Now Mr. Cuomo hopes to revive the deal by exacting more money from Lilco. He uses as a club a racketeering fraud case in which Suffolk County charged Lilco with having lied about the costs of Shoreham. The jury recently ruled against Lilco. Federal District Judge Jack Weinstein has not yet announced whether he will sustain this verdict. If he does, others will be enabled to sue on the same grounds, potentially exposing Lilco to $4 billion in damages.
        It is in the negotiations over this RICO law fraud case, conducted by Kenneth Feinberg, a mediator appointed by the judge, that Shoreham could be done in this week. The striking defect in these negotiations is that none of the participants speak on behalf of the public interest involved in seeing that the plant opens. Even Lilco is now more anxious to save itself from bankruptcy than to open Shoreham.
        Long Islanders have long wanted to have things all ways on Shoreham. They aspire to close it, to avoid paying the billions it has cost to build, and to continue enjoying reliable power. Who can save them from their folly?
        The Nuclear Regulatory Commission could still take a constructive step by giving Shoreham its license to operate at quarter and then full power. Further bumbling will push the battered company into bankruptcy. Even with a license, Lilco might use the threat of opening Shoreham merely to improve the terms of its survival, and still scrap the reactor.
        For the plant to operate, Lilco needs political support from some quarter, and a show of independence by New York's Public Service Commission, which at present is playing Mr. Cuomo's game by denying Lilco a needed rate increase. As for Judge Weinstein, his honorable course is neutrality on the political issue of whether Shoreham opens or closes. That weighs against his approving any settlement that requires closure. Who else is to represent the public's interest?
        The chances for such an outcome are remote. Most probably, Lilco, desperate to save itself, will cave to the politicians and the court; Shoreham will be closed; blackouts will start this summer, and Long Islanders, so long determined to have everything go their way, will pay and pay and pay.
      