
       Carl Furillo, the right fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers during their glory years in the late 1940's and 50's, died Saturday at his home in Stony Creek Mills, Pa. He was 66 years old.
        Carl Furillo, the right fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers during their glory years in the late 1940's and 50's, died Saturday at his home in Stony Creek Mills, Pa. He was 66 years old.
        A fellow former Dodger, Carl Erskine, said yesterday that family members told him Mr. Furillo had died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack. Mr. Furillo, who had suffered from leukemia several years ago, had recently been in good health, Mr. Erskine said.
        Furillo, together with such stars as Erskine, Gil Hodges, Jackie Robinson, Duke Snider, Pee Wee Reese, Roy Campanella, Don Newcombe, Billy Cox and Preacher Roe, played for the Dodger teams recalled in ''The Boys of Summer'' by Roger Kahn. In 1955, he played on the only Brooklyn team that won the World Series.
        Furillo played his entire 15-year career with the Dodgers in Brooklyn and Los Angeles, taking part in seven World Series and finishing with a career batting average of .299. He hit 192 home runs and had 1,058 runs batted in. Furillo batted over .300 in five seasons and drove in 90 or more runs six times.
        His best season was in 1953, when he led the National League in batting with a .344 average. He won the title despite being sidelined with a broken finger incurred in a brawl. Furillo had been hit by a pitch from the New York Giants' Ruben Gomez and then charged the Giants' manager, Leo Durocher.
        ''We hated the Giants,'' he recalled years later. ''We just hated the uniform.'' Devoted Team Player
        Under that gruff exterior, recalled Mr. Erskine, was a sensitive man with a fierce devotion to his team. ''He was seldom out of the lineup,'' said Mr. Erskine, a former Dodger pitcher who is now president of the First National Bank in Anderson, Ind. ''He was fiery, a real tough competitor. But there was also a tender, sensitive side to Carl that not too many people saw.''
        Furillo, who was raised in Lower Alsace Township, Pa., near Reading, started his career as an outfielder in the Eastern Shore League at a salary of $80 a month.
        He fought his way up through the Dodger organization, acquiring the nickname Reading Rifle for his fine throwing arm. In addition to keeping baserunners wary, he was adept at playing the tricky caroms off the angled right-field wall at Ebbets Field. Protecting the Wall
        Pee Wee Reese, the former shortstop for the Dodgers, recalled a few years ago how the sign for Abe Stark's clothing store at the base of the right-field scoreboard promised a free suit to any batter who hit it on a fly.
        ''But Furillo played right in front of it,'' said Reese. ''Nobody ever hit it.''
        In 1959, Furillo, then 37 years old, played only 25 games in the outfield, but he delivered a game-winning hit in the World Series to help Los Angeles defeat the Chicago White Sox.
        The following season, however, Furillo was released after suffering a torn calf muscle. It was a heavily publicized incident that left him bitter.
        After being released, he sued the Dodgers, saying he was improperly let go because he had a baseball-related injury at the time. A court awarded him back pay.
        He opened a grocery store not far from Shea Stadium, and also worked as an elevator mechanic at the World Trade Center before returning to live permanently in Pennsylvania, where he worked at a variety of jobs.
        In recent years, much of Mr. Furillo's bitterness gave way to good will. He became a regular staff member at the Dodgers' Fantasy Camp in Vero Beach, Fla., where he joined other Dodger greats in reminiscing with fans.
        In a 1968 interview, Mr. Furillo told a visitor: ''No regrets, none at all. Look at that career I had.''
        He is survived by his wife, Fern; two sons, Carl of Temple, Pa., and Jon of Stony Creek Mills; two sisters, Rose of Bernville, Pa., and Josephine, of Reading, and five grandchildren.
      