
       Alfred S. Julien, a New York trial lawyer who was founder and senior partner in the law firm of Julien & Schlesinger, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 78 years old and also had homes in Manhattan and in Westhampton Beach, L.I.
        Alfred S. Julien, a New York trial lawyer who was founder and senior partner in the law firm of Julien & Schlesinger, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 78 years old and also had homes in Manhattan and in Westhampton Beach, L.I.
        Mr. Julien was perhaps best known for representing Ronald E. Gallela, a freelance photographer, in a lawsuit against Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis in 1972.
        Mr. Gallela, seeking $1.3 million in damages, charged in the suit that Mrs. Onassis had interfered with his livelihood by, among other things, having Secret Service agents keep him from photographing her or her family. Mrs. Onassis accused Mr. Gallela of harassment. The suit was later dismissed. Mrs. Onassis, in turn, asked the court to permanently bar the photographer from approaching her or her children to take their photographs. The court granted the request. Suit Against Brando
        Mr. Julien also represented Mr. Gallela in a suit he brought against Marlon Brando and in a counter-suit that the actor then filed against the photographer. Mr. Gallela accused the actor of punching him and breaking his jaw. The case was settled out of court.
        Mr. Julien established Julien & Schlesinger in 1931 after graduating with honors from Brooklyn Law School. The partner in the firm is Stuart Schlesinger.
        Mr. Julien was a past president of the American, New York State and Metropolitan Trial Lawyers Associations. He also lectured on trial techniques and wrote two books, ''Julien on Summation'' and ''Opening Statements.'' Since 1979 he had been an adjunct professor at New York Law School.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Helen Richman; a son, Stephen, of the Riverdale section of the Bronx; a daughter, Susan J. Gana of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      