
       Paul Baker Sheatsley, a retired research director who was a well-known authority in public opinion polling, died of emphysema Sunday at Little Company of Mary Hospital in Chicago. He was 72 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Paul Baker Sheatsley, a retired research director who was a well-known authority in public opinion polling, died of emphysema Sunday at Little Company of Mary Hospital in Chicago. He was 72 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Sheatsley's career spanned the birth, growth and development of public opinion research. A graduate of Princeton University, he began as director of the field staff of the Audience Research Institute from 1940 to 1942 and was a founding member and a past president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research. He was editing a history of the organization at his death.
        From 1942 to 1986, when he retired, Mr. Sheatsley was associated with the National Opinion Research Center of the University of Chicago. He headed the organization's New York office from 1942 to 1961, when he moved to Chicago to direct its Survey Research Service. After retirement he continued to serve as a consultant. Reaction to Assassination
        In 1963, days after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, Mr. Sheatsley supervised a survey of public reaction that found that about half of all Americans cried when they heard of the killing of the President. Mr. Sheatsley was also at the forefront of survey design and methods in health care and race relations.
        In 1982 he was awarded the Exceptionally Distinguished Achievement Award by the American Association for Public Opinion Research for his contribututions to the field. He wrote numerous books and articles on public opinion polling. He was also a music enthusiast and wrote widely on jazz and blues. He was co-editor of Blues Research and was on the editorial staff of Record Research for almost two decades.
        He is survived by his wife, Natalie, and three daughters, Pamela Blackman and Victoria, both of Manhattan, and Joanne Cope, of Cullowhee, N.C.
      