
       Thomas Bernhard, an Austrian playwright and novelist whose last theater work caused demonstrations and a censorship dispute when it was staged in Vienna several months ago, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Gmunden, near Salzburg. He was 58 years old.
        Thomas Bernhard, an Austrian playwright and novelist whose last theater work caused demonstrations and a censorship dispute when it was staged in Vienna several months ago, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Gmunden, near Salzburg. He was 58 years old.
        Peter Fabjan, his half-brother, said Mr. Bernhard had asked to be buried before his death was announced, and he was.
        Mr. Bernhard's play ''Heldenplatz'' (''Heroes' Square'') enraged public officials and other people because it accused Austrians of being anti-Semitic. The drama had its premiere at the state-owned Burgtheater in November. The play was considered implicitly critical of Austria's president, Kurt Waldheim, who called it ''an insult to the Austrian people.'' It tells the story of a Jewish professor who emigrated when the Nazis marched into Austria in 1938, returned in his later years and committed suicide because he felt that in 1988 Austrians had barely changed their attitudes toward Jews. Critics of the play questioned whether the state should subsidize art critical of Austria. Other Controversies
        In ''Heldenplatz,'' the old professor says, ''There are more Nazis now.'' The play includes a line about ''a nation of 6.5 million idiots living in a country that is rotting away, falling apart, run by the political parties in an unholy alliance with the Catholic Church.''
        This was not the first time Mr. Bernhard's work aroused the authorities. In 1973 he withdrew a play, ''Die Beruehmten'' (''The Famous''), from the Salzburg Festival after the organizers refused to let him switch off all the lights during the performance. In 1984, the Austrian police seized his novel ''Woodcutters'' because it they said it insulted a well-known Viennese cultural figure.
        In a review of ''Woodcutters'' in The New York Times Book Review, Mark Anderson wrote that it was ''a polemical book that lashes out not only at Austria's most cherished cultural institutions, but also at Mr. Berhard's own not-so-famous artistic contemporaries. . . . His portrait of a society in dissolution has a Scandinavian darkness reminiscent of Ibsen and Strindberg.''
        Among his other novels published in English are ''Gathering Evidence,'' ''Gargoyles,'' ''The Lime Works,'' ''Correction,'' ''Concrete'' and this year, ''Wittgenstein's Nephew'' (Knopf). He produced more than 30 works of fiction, drama and poetry.
      