
       Harold W. Siebens, an oilman and philanthropist who in 1980 made an anonymous gift of $18 million to Buena Vista College, a small liberal arts institution in Storm Lake, Iowa, died on Sunday at his home on Lyford Cay in the Bahamas. He was 83 years old.
        Harold W. Siebens, an oilman and philanthropist who in 1980 made an anonymous gift of $18 million to Buena Vista College, a small liberal arts institution in Storm Lake, Iowa, died on Sunday at his home on Lyford Cay in the Bahamas. He was 83 years old.
        The gift by Mr. Siebens to the 950-student institution was at the time the largest ever per student in the history of higher education. The donation, in six annual installments of $3 million, was used by the college to build a new business school and make other improvements at a cost of $15 million. Investments left an endowment that has grown to nearly $35 million.
        Mr. Siebens's anonymity ended in 1985 when the Harold Walter Siebens School of Business/Siebens Forum opened. Several other Buena Vista campus buildings and scholarships have since been named in honor of him, his wife, two sons and three daughters. A smaller 1970 gift by Mr. Siebens resulted in the naming of the college fieldhouse in honor of his parents. Return to Iowa
        Mr. Siebens, a native of Storm Lake, was reared in St. Louis but returned to the Iowa town as a young man to manage a branch of the general merchandise business established by his father, Walter, a 1900 graduate of Buena Vista.
        When his father died in 1940, Mr. Siebens took over the family sporting goods business, which had headquarters in St. Louis. But he sold it in 1948 and decided to move to Alaska. On the way he saw frenetic activity in the oilfields of Alberta and settled there instead, founding the Siebens Oil Company to search for petroleum around the globe.
        He developed a knack for guessing where oil would be found. He would buy land for a few cents an acre that he later sold to developers for a large profit. He made millions of dollars on a stake of $50,000 and retired in 1959 at the age of 54. Siebens Oil & Gas was acquired by Dome Petroleum in 1979.
        Surviving are his wife, Estelle; two sons, three daughters, ten grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 7, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
        A headline on Friday on an obituary of an oilman and philanthropist gave his first name incorrectly. He was Harold W. Siebens, not Howard W. Siebens.
      