
       Stacy V. Jones, who for 36 years wrote a weekly column in The New York Times on newly issued patents, died Monday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 93 years old.
        Stacy V. Jones, who for 36 years wrote a weekly column in The New York Times on newly issued patents, died Monday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 93 years old.
        Mr. Jones started the column, which appears Saturdays in Business Day, in 1952. His last column appeared last June 4. He worked out of his home as a part-time correspondent.
        His work brought him the respect of inventors and patent specialists in Washington, along with a following of readers curious about new ideas and gadgets.
        ''Stacy was certainly a man of great integrity and he was faithful to the patent system throughout his career,'' Donald J. Quigg, Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, said yesterday.
        Last June Mr. Quigg presented a plaque to Mr. Jones at a Washington reception to mark his long career. Mr. Jones had earlier received an award from the National Council of Patent Law Associations for distinguished journalism in the field of inventions and patents. Inventors Besieged Him
        Each week Mr. Jones would review the Official Gazette of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, a summary of newly issued patents. He would select those that interested him and call the inventor for further details.
        Inventors also besieged him, beating a path to his door ''to get their latest inventions included in the column,'' recalled John W. Finney, a former news editor in the Washington bureau of The Times.
        Some of Mr. Jones's columns carried headlines like ''Inventor Offers Device to Clean Fingernails,'' or ''Writing Instrument Does Not Touch Paper,'' but he did not shy away from complicated medical and technological innovations.
        Mr. Jones also wrote four books on patents: ''The Inventor's Patent Handbook,'' ''You Ought to Patent That,'' ''The Patent Office'' and ''Inventions Necessity Is Not the Mother Of: Patents Ridiculous and Sublime.'' Began Column at 58
        Mr. Jones did not start the column until he was 58, after an earlier career on the news staffs of The New York Sun and on newspapers in Seattle, Detroit and Washington. He also served as Washington correspondent for Liberty magazine until the magazine ended publication in 1950.
        He was born in Tacoma, Wash., and graduated from the University of Washington in 1917.
        In World War I he was an Army field clerk. And in 1945 he served as special assistant to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Air.
        His first report for The Times described a patent issued for an intoximeter, a device used to measure the alcoholic content of a person's breath. His last was on a dispenser to administer one or more drugs in the correct dosage and at the proper time.
        The Patents column, which appears is now written by Edmund L. Andrews, a writer on technology and business in Washington.
        Mr. Jones's wife of 67 years, Margaret, died two years ago at the age of 90. He is survived by a son, Jeremy, of Falls Church.
      