
       Lefty Gomez, who mixed a sense of humor with a knack for winning consistently as a pitcher with the powerful Yankee teams of a half-century ago, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at Marin General Hospital in Larkspur, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        Lefty Gomez, who mixed a sense of humor with a knack for winning consistently as a pitcher with the powerful Yankee teams of a half-century ago, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at Marin General Hospital in Larkspur, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        In his 14 major league seasons, Gomez won 189 games, lost 102 and was nearly flawless in the World Series, winning 6 games without losing in his 7 starts. He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1972.
        Back in the days when baseball games were being played on lazy summer afternoons and the Yankees were winning more games than anybody else, few persons symbolized the sport more joyously or successfully than Vernon (Lefty) Gomez, who was known to let a batter wait while he watched an airplane go by.
        The light-hearted left-hander reflected the mood of the business by breezing through 13 seasons as one of the happier, more colorful souls on the landscape: the Singular Senor and El Goofy of the Yankee pitching staff, and a wit and raconteur of the front rank.
        But he also reflected the Yankees' dominance of the business in the middle years of the empire, starting in 1931, when Babe Ruth was king, and ending in 1942, when Joe DiMaggio reigned. During those summers, plus one postscript summer with the Boston Braves and Washington Senators in 1943, Lefty Gomez performed as one of the slickest pitchers in the big leagues.
        Four times he won more than 20 games in a season, three times he led the American League in strikeouts, twice he led in winning percentage and earned run average. And in 1934, when he pitched 26 victories with only 5 defeats, he led the league in shutouts, strikeouts, complete games, innings pitched and just about everything else. Best Under Pressure
        But his reputation as a ''money pitcher'' probably rested just as firmly on his World Series record. During his years with the Yankees, pitching in five World Series over eight years, he won six games and did not lose. He also appeared in five All-Star Games, winning three - including the first one in Chicago in 1933 - and losing one.
        The secret of his success? ''Clean living and a fast outfield,'' Gomez replied on more than one occasion. Then, just as often, he would add, ''I'd rather be lucky than good.''
        He was apparently both because the Yankees were blessed with a full cast of power hitters in the 1930's: from Ruth and Lou Gehrig to DiMaggio, Bill Dickey, Joe Gordon and Charlie Keller.
        Even when he was elected to the Hall of Fame, Gomez did not take himself too seriously. In his induction speech, he said, ''I want to thank all my teammates who scored so many runs; Joe DiMaggio, who ran down so many of my mistakes, and Johnny Murphy, without whose relief pitching I wouldn't be here.'' A No-Hit Pitcher
        He could also joke just as cheerfully about his anemic batting average, which was only .147 during his 13 seasons, in the days when all pitchers batted for themselves.
        ''They throw, I swing,'' he once said, analyzing the problem at bat. ''Every once in a while they're throwing where I'm swinging and I get a hit.''
        ''Remember the 1934 All-Star Game?'' he once asked the late Red Smith of The New York Times. ''Carl Hubbell struck out five great hitters in a row: Ruth, Gehrig, Jimmie Foxx, Al Simmons and Joe Cronin. Then Dickey singled, and I was the next hitter. Gabby Hartnett was catching, and he asked me, 'You trying to insult Hubbell, coming up here with a bat in your hand?' '' Gomez struck out. Yanks Pay $35,000 Gomez was a thin 6-footer of Irish and Spanish descent who was born in Rodeo, Calif. He entered professional baseball in 1928 with Salt Lake City of the Utah-Idaho League, then won 18 games with the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League the following year and was sold to the Yankees for $35,000.
        In 1933, Gomez was married to June O'Dea, a Broadway showgirl who was touring in the musical ''Of Thee I Sing.'' Five years later, she sued for separation and for a time the couple made headlines with charges and countercharges that centered on the pitcher's temperament and zest for high life. She later dropped the suit and they were reconciled.
        At his peak, in 1938, Gomez earned $20,000 with the Yankees, which was big money in baseball then.
        After his career ended in 1943, Gomez worked as recreational director of the Norden Bombsight Company; later served as a manager for the Yankee farm team in Binghamton, N.Y., where his proteges included Whitey Ford, and eventually represented the Wilson Sporting Goods Company.
        Through it all, he continued to regale baseball dinners and World Series gatherings with tales of the glory years, even his final year with the Yankees, when Manager Joe McCarthy observed, ''Lefty, I don't think you're throwing as hard as you used to.'' And, as the Singular Senor remembered dryly, he overlooked the solemnity of the warning and replied: ''You're wrong, Joe. I'm throwing twice as hard, but the ball isn't going as fast.''
        Besides his wife, Gomez is survived by two daughters, Vernona and Sharon; a son Gary, and seven grandchildren.
      