
       William H. Baumer, an industrial executive and a retired United States Army officer who helped plan the invasion of Normandy in World War II, died of heart failure Tuesday while aboard an airplane flying to Los Angeles from Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in La Jolla, Calif.
        William H. Baumer, an industrial executive and a retired United States Army officer who helped plan the invasion of Normandy in World War II, died of heart failure Tuesday while aboard an airplane flying to Los Angeles from Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in La Jolla, Calif.
        Mr. Baumer, who was born in Omaha, was a 1933 graduate of the United States Military Academy. While teaching at West Point he received a master's degree in political science from Columbia University.
        In 1942 he was assigned to the Army's War Plans Division, where he worked under Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Gen. Albert C. Wedemeyer before becoming the American representative to the British War Cabinet.
        After the war he headed the Armed Forces Radio Network. He left active duty as a colonel in 1950 but remained a member of the Army Reserve until 1969, when he retired with the rank of major general.
        In his subsequent business career Mr. Baumer was particularly interested in motivating employees to take part in public affairs and he wrote extensively on the subject. Among his 10 books and more than 100 articles was the book, ''Politics Is Your Business,'' published in 1960.
        In 1950 he joined Johnson & Johnson in New Brunswick, N.J., as assistant to the chairman. From 1963 until his retirement in 1972 he was with International General Industries in Washington, first as executive vice president and later as president. At his death he was senior partner of Centurian Capital, a venture capital concern in Santa Ana, Calif.
        Mr. Baumer is survived by a son, William Jr. of Falls Church, Va.; four daughters, Winifred Dowling of El Paso, Natalie Baumer of Manhattan, Marjorie Mulloy of Alexandria, Va., and Carolyn Piirto of Boulder, Colo., and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 18, 1989, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of William H. Baumer, an industrial executive and former United States Army officer who helped plan the World War II invasion of Normandy, was published in error. It showed Maj. William H. Baumer, an Air Force officer captured during the Korean War.
      