
       Roy Eldridge, a jazz trumpeter who was the connecting link in the line that went from the pioneering Louis Armstrong to the modernist innovator Dizzy Gillespie, died Sunday at Franklin General Hospital in Valley Stream, L.I. He was 78 years old.
        Roy Eldridge, a jazz trumpeter who was the connecting link in the line that went from the pioneering Louis Armstrong to the modernist innovator Dizzy Gillespie, died Sunday at Franklin General Hospital in Valley Stream, L.I. He was 78 years old.
        A nursing supervisor contacted last night at the hospital said she could not reveal details about his death. On Sunday, however, the Rev. John Garcia Gensel of St. Peter's Lutheran Church in Manhattan said Mr. Eldridge ''wasn't eating well. And I know he was very dehydrated.''
        Mr. Eldridge, who gave up the trumpet for health reasons in 1980, played with a crackling intensity that set him apart from all his contemporaries.
        ''Roy took as his point of departure the fantastic style of the middle Armstrong period,'' Ross Russell, a jazz record producer and historian, wrote in 1949. ''But Roy's trumpet went beyond Louis in range and brilliance. It had greater agility. His style was more nervous. His drive was perhaps the most intense jazz has ever known.'' 'More Soul in One Note'
        ''God gives it to some and not others,'' Ella Fitzgerald once said, speaking of Mr. Eldridge. ''He's got more soul in one note than a lot of people could get into the whole song.''
        Mr. Eldridge's first influences on trumpet were Rex Stewart (''I liked his speed, range and power,'' Mr. Eldridge said) and Red Nichols (''I liked the nice, clean sound he was getting''). But he began to find his own musical personality from a saxophonist, Coleman Hawkins. He copied Mr. Hawkins's sleek driving solo with Fletcher Henderson's orchestra on ''Stampede'' so successfully that it set him apart from other young trumpet players of the late 20's.
        ''I was very technical then,'' Mr. Eldridge recalled, ''but I couldn't swing. Chick Webb used to say, 'Yeah, he's fast but he's not saying anything.' ''
        Mr. Eldridge learned to say something when he saw Armstrong for the first time, at the Lafayette Theater in Harlem in 1932.
        ''I didn't think so much of him at first,'' Mr. Eldridge conceded. ''But I stayed for the second show, and I suddenly realized he built his solos like a book - first, an introduction, then chapters, each one coming out of the one before and building to a climax.'' A Nickname: Little Jazz
        It was a year before, in 1931, that Mr. Eldridge acquired his nickname, Little Jazz, which stayed with him the rest of his life. His irresistible urge to play impressed Otto Hardwick, a mainstay of Duke Ellington's early saxophone section, when he was playing with Mr. Eldridge at Small's Paradise in Harlem.
        ''I was blowing all the time,'' Mr. Eldridge recalled. ''So he called me Little Jazz.''
        Physically he fit the description. Born in Pittsburgh on Jan. 30, 1911, he was a short, compact and wiry man who was often jumping with energy. He left home at 16 to play with a band called the Night Hawk Syncopaters. Mr. Eldridge paid his dues with a variety of territory bands, sometimes playing drums as well as trumpet, before he reached New York in 1930. A Brash, Crackling Attack
        In New York, he combined the fiery virtuosity he had shown playing ''Stampede'' with the insights he had gained from Armstrong to create the brash, crackling attack that became his musical identity.
        ''I liked to hear a note cracking,'' he later told Barry Ulanov of Metronome magazine. ''A real snap. It's like a whip when it happens.''
        In the 30's, Mr. Eldridge formed his own band with his older brother, Joe, a tenor saxophonist. He also played in McKinney's Cotton Pickers, in Teddy Hill's band and in Fletcher Henderson's last great band - the mid-30's Henderson band in which Mr. Eldridge was the most vital spark among such notable artists as Chu Berry, Sid Catlett, Buster Bailey and Israel Crosby.
        After another attempt at leading his own band, he announced his retirement from music in 1939, ''because I couldn't get any bread.''
        He studied radio engineering and electronics, but, he said, ''I couldn't do it.'' By 1941 Mr. Eldridge was playing again, with Gene Krupa's band. He teamed up as a vocalist with Anita O'Day on ''Let Me Off Uptown'' and ''Knock Me a Kiss,'' and he developed a magnificent trumpet solo on ''Rockin' Chair.'' Harrowing Experiences Joining Mr. Krupa, Mr. Eldridge became one of the first black musicians to become an integral part of a white jazz band. Later, he held a similar position with Artie Shaw's band. They occasioned harrowing experiences, and he later told an interviewer from Down Beat magazine: ''One thing you can be sure of. As long as I'm in America, I'll never in my life work with a white band again.''
        Although he said Mr. Krupa, Mr. Shaw and other band members were very supportive, he was constantly turned away from hotels where the other musicians stayed, from restaurants where they ate and even from the ballrooms where he was playing with them. At Metropole and Jimmy Ryan's
        In the 50's Mr. Eldridge played on the Jazz at the Philharmonic tours run by Norman Granz, who insisted in his contract on first-class accommodations for all his musicians and on playing to unsegregated audiences. Between tours, Mr. Eldridge often played at the Metropole, the long, narrow mirror-lined room just off Times Square.
        In 1969 he took over leadership of the band at Jimmy Ryan's on West 54th Street, a jazz room that primarily featured Dixieland. During more than 40 years, Mr. Eldridge's relationship with Dixieland had never been more than peripheral. He adapted by learning the Dixieland routines. But learning the routines did not mean that he submitted to them.
        ''The band may be pumping through 'Royal Garden Blues,' '' a reviewer for The New York Times wrote, ''when, with a sudden ripping burst of sound, Mr. Eldridge razzle-dazzles his way into an electrifying solo, served with the crackling phrases and bright, sharp clusters of notes that have always been his hallmark.'' A Spokesman at Jazz Events
        After developing heart problems in 1980, Mr. Eldridge, who had still been playing at Jimmy Ryan's, made the difficult decision to stop playing the trumpet. In later years he performed as a singer, a drummer and a spokesman for jazz at schools and major jazz events.
        Mr. Eldridge's wife of 53 years, Viola, died three weeks ago. He is survived by a daughter, Carol, of Queens.
        A service is to be held at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, in the Citicorp Center, at 54th Street and Lexington Avenue, tomorrow at 10 A.M.
      