
       Roy Eldridge, the jazz trumpeter who was the connecting link in the line that went from the pioneering Louis Armstrong to the modernist innovator Dizzy Gillespie, played with a crackling intensity that set him apart from all his contemporaries.
        Roy Eldridge, the jazz trumpeter who was the connecting link in the line that went from the pioneering Louis Armstrong to the modernist innovator Dizzy Gillespie, played with a crackling intensity that set him apart from all his contemporaries.
        ''Roy took as his point of departure the fantastic style of the middle Armstrong period,'' Ross Russell, a jazz record producer and historian, wrote in 1949. ''But Roy's trumpet went beyond Louis in range and brilliance. It had greater agility. His style was more nervous. His drive was perhaps the most intense jazz has ever known.''
        Dizzy Gillespie, an avid admirer of Mr. Eldridge, got his first important job in New York replacing Mr. Eldridge in Teddy Hill's band in the mid-30's, when he was 19, because, as he wrote in his autobiography, ''To Be, or not . . . to Bop,'' ''I sounded so much like Roy.''
        Mr. Hill ''wanted to keep a solo trumpet that sounded like that in his band,'' Mr. Gillespie wrote. ''Someone who could play high, fast and with fire. I had been practicing playing Roy's solos for almost three years; they were like second nature to me.'' 'His Style Is as of Old'
        The style that Mr. Gillespie idolized remained with Mr. Eldridge throughout his career. In 1965, the critic Whitney Balliett went to the Village Vanguard to hear him and reported, ''His style is as of old.''
        ''His tone at slow tempos still supplicates and enfolds,'' Mr. Balliett wrote, ''and at fast speeds hums and threatens. In a slow blues chorus, he will begin with two or three long-held notes shaped into a simple melody and played behind the beat. The last of these notes may end in a whiskey-baritone growl kept low to the ground by a brief, waddling vibratto.
        ''He may repeat the phrase, adding several notes an octave or so higher that sound almost falsetto because of their suddenness, and then he will pause and - making you hold your breath, since you suspect what may come next - tear into the highest register, seize a blinding high note, hold it briefly, pause again, fall with unbelievable velocity to a wild sotto voce run, and close the phrase with a mock pompous growl.''
        ''God gives it to some and not others,'' Ella Fitzgerald once said, speaking of Mr. Eldridge. ''He's got more soul in one note than a lot of people could get into the whole song.'' Copied Coleman Hawkins
        Mr. Eldridge's first influences on trumpet were Rex Stewart (''I liked his speed, range and power,'' Mr. Eldridge said) and Red Nichols (''I liked the nice, clean sound he was getting''). But he began to find his own musical personality from a saxophonist, Coleman Hawkins. He copied Mr. Hawkins's sleek driving solo with Fletcher Henderson's orchestra on ''Stampede'' so successfully that it set him apart from other young trumpet players of the late 20's.
        ''I was very technical then,'' Mr. Eldridge recalled, ''but I couldn't swing. Chick Webb used to say, 'Yeah, he's fast but he's not saying anything.' ''
        Mr. Eldridge learned to say something when he saw Mr. Armstrong for the first time at the Lafayette Theater in Harlem in 1932.
        ''I didn't think so much of him at first,'' Mr. Eldridge conceded. ''But I stayed for the second show, and I suddenly realized he built his solos like a book - first, an introduction, then chapters, each one coming out of the one before and building to a climax.'' Nicknamed Little Jazz
        It was a year before, in 1931, that Mr. Eldridge acquired his nickname, Little Jazz, which stayed with him the rest of his life. His irresistible urge to play had impressed Otto Hardwick, a mainstay of Duke Ellington's early saxophone section, when he was playing with Mr. Eldridge at Small's Paradise in Harlem.
        ''I was blowing all the time,'' Mr. Eldridge recalled. ''So he called me Little Jazz.''
        Physically he fit the description. Born in Pittsburgh on Jan. 30, 1911, he was a short, compact and wiry man who was often jumping with energy. He left home at 16 to play with a band called the Night Hawk Syncopaters. Mr. Eldridge paid his dues with a variety of territory bands, sometimes playing drums as well as trumpet, before he reached New York in 1930.
        In New York, he combined the fiery virtuosity he had shown playing ''Stampede'' with the insights he had gained from Mr. Armstrong to create the brash crackling attack that became his musical identity.
        ''I liked to hear a note cracking,'' he later told Barry Ulanov of Metronome magazine. ''A real snap. It's like a whip when it happens.''
        In the 30's, Mr. Eldridge formed his own band with his older brother, Joe, a tenor saxophonist. He also played in McKinney's Cotton Pickers, in Teddy Hill's band and in Fletcher Henderson's last great band - the mid-30's Henderson band in which Mr. Eldridge was the most vital spark among such notable artists as Chu Berry, Sid Catlett, Buster Bailey and Israel Crosby.
        After another attempt at leading his own band, he announced his retirement from music in 1939, ''because I couldn't get any bread.'' 'Rockin' Chair' Best Record
        He studied radio engineering and electronics, but, he said, ''I couldn't do it.'' By 1941, Mr. Eldridge was playing again, with Gene Krupa's band. He teamed up as a vocalist with Anita O'Day on ''Let Me Off Uptown'' and ''Knock Me a Kiss,'' and he developed a magnificent trumpet solo on ''Rockin' Chair.''
        Mr. Eldridge considered his recording of ''Rockin' Chair'' with the Krupa band to be his best record. ''There really isn't a flaw in it,'' he said. But he did not realize that when he made it.
        ''We were just finishing up the recording session,'' he told the critic Gary Giddins, ''when Gene came over to me and said, 'Let's try ''Rockin' Chair.'' ' I said, 'What? Now?' We made two takes and Gene said, 'Well, that's O.K.' I thought they were so bad, I actually cried. I said to him, 'Please don't put that stuff out.'
        ''Two months later, I'd forgotten about it, and I was out on the Coast. Ben Webster called me up and said he had a record he wanted me to hear. We went up to Vegas, where he was working, and had a long breakfast and then he put on 'Rockin' Chair.' I didn't recognize it was me until it got to the chorus, and then I just flipped!'' 'Harrowing Experiences'
        With Mr. Krupa, Mr. Eldridge became the first black musician to become an integral part of a white jazz band. Later, he held a similar position with Artie Shaw's band. They were harrowing experiences, and he later told an interviewer from Down Beat: ''One thing you can be sure of. As long as I'm in America, I'll never in my life work with a white band again.''
        Although he said Mr. Krupa and Mr. Shaw and other band members were very supportive, he was constantly being turned away from hotels where the other musicians stayed, from restaurants where they ate and even from the ballrooms where he was playing with them.
        ''When I was with Artie Shaw,'' he said, ''I went to a place where we were supposed to play a dance, and they wouldn't even let me in the place. 'This is a white dance,' they said, and there was my name outside, Roy (Little Jazz) Eldridge, and I told them who I was.
        ''When I finally did get in, I played that first set, trying to keep from crying. By the time I got through the set, the tears were rolling down my cheeks. I don't know how I made it.'' Metropole and Jimmy Ryan'sp
        In the 50's Mr. Eldridge played on the Jazz at the Philharmonic tours run by Norman Granz, who insisted in his contract on first-class accommodations for all his musicians and on playing to unsegregated audiences. Between tours, Mr. Eldridge often played at the Metropole, tge long narrow mirror-lined room just off Times Square.
        By the 60's, Mr. Eldridge found himself in a limbo. Accustomed to star billing or an opportunity to perform that established his star standing, he was obscured, first, behind Ella Fitzgerald as leader of her accompanying group and, later, in Count Basie's band, where he rarely had the chance to play with the freedom he had earlier enjoyed with Mr. Krupa and Mr. Shaw.
        In 1969 he took over the leadership of the band at Jimmy Ryan's on West 54th Street, a jazz room that primarily featured Dixieland. During more than 40 years, Mr. Eldridge's relationship with Dixieland had never been more than peripheral. He adapted by learning the Dixieland routines. But learning the routines did not mean that he submitted to them.
        ''The band may be pumping through 'Royal Garden Blues,' '' a reviewer for The New York Times wrote, ''when, with a sudden ripping burst of sound, Mr. Eldridge razzle-dazzles his way into an electrifying solo, served with the crackling phrases and bright, sharp clusters of notes that have always been his hallmark.'' Spokesman at Events
        After developing heart problems in 1980, Mr. Eldridge, who had still been playing at Jimmy Ryan's, made the difficult decision to stop playing the trumpet. In later years he performed as a singer, a drummer and a spokesman for jazz at schools and major jazz events.
        Surviving is a daughter, Carol, also of Queens.
        A broadcast on in memory of Mr. Eldridge began early this morning on WKCR-FM and is to continue through tomorrow morning.
        A service is to be held at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, in the Citicorp Center, at 54th Street and Lexington Avenue, later this week.
      