
       Alfonso de Borbon y de Dampierre, the Duke of Cadiz, was killed Monday in a skiing accident here. He was 52 years old.
        Alfonso de Borbon y de Dampierre, the Duke of Cadiz, was killed Monday in a skiing accident here. He was 52 years old.
        The Duke, a first cousin of King Juan Carlos and member of the international governing body of ski racing, collided with a cable that was being raised to support a banner at the finish line of a course at the World Alpine Skiing Championships, being held this week at Beaver Creek Resort.
        Members of the Ski Patrol and emergency personnel attended to the Duke at the scene, but he was pronounced dead on arrival at Vail Valley Medical Center, said Jeff Beavers of the Eagle County Sheriff's Department.
        No official cause of death has been determined, but he suffered severe neck lacerations, Mr. Beavers said.
        King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia in Spain expressed their sorrow over his death. The victim's brother, Gonzalo de Borbon, said he would fly from Madrid to Colorado today to bring his body back to Spain for burial. Championship Events Canceled
        All Monday night events were canceled by officials at the world championship, who ordered flags flown at half-staff and made plans for a memorial service.
        The Duke, who was not in the line of succession to the Spanish throne, had been Spain's Ambassador to Sweden from 1969 to 1973.
        An avid skier, he was president of the Spanish Skiing Federation from 1977 to 1984 and president of the Spanish Olympic Committee from 1984 to 1987. He was a member of the Council of the Federation Internationale du Ski.
        In 1972, he married Carmen Franco, granddaughter of Franco, but they divorced in 1982.
        In February 1984, the elder of his two sons was killed on the way home from a skiing trip in the Spanish Basque country. A judge ruled that the Duke, who was driving, had been negligent and stripped him of the custody of his other son.
        Francisco Fernandez-Ochoa, the slalom gold medalist at the 1972 Olympics and a close friend of the Duke, said the Duke liked to ''ski fast and drive fast.''
        Correction:  February 3, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary by The Associated Press on Wednesday about Alfonso de Borbon y de Dampierre, the Duke of Cadiz, described a court action incorrectly. After a 1984 car crash in which the Duke's elder son was killed, a Spanish court granted the boy's mother temporary custody of the other son. But six months later the court ruled that the child could be returned to his father's custody. The article also misidentified the Duke's former wife. She is Maria del Carmen Martinez-Bordiu y Franco.
      