
       Prof. Abel Wolman, who led American and foreign efforts to chlorinate drinking water, died Wednesday at his home in Baltimore. Professor Wolman, a retired professor of sanitary engineering at Johns Hopkins University, was 96 years old.
        Prof. Abel Wolman, who led American and foreign efforts to chlorinate drinking water, died Wednesday at his home in Baltimore. Professor Wolman, a retired professor of sanitary engineering at Johns Hopkins University, was 96 years old.
        During New York City water shortages in 1951 and 1965 he proposed that purified water from the Hudson River be used, and the city finally agreed.
        His career spanned more than 70 years. As recently as 1981 he served on a Defense Department Task Force on Water Supply. He advised more than 50 foreign governments on their water supplies and his methods for water treatment by chlorination were adopted by almost all American cities.
        ''I can think of no other Johns Hopkins faculty member and alumnus who has touched so many lives around the globe with his life's work,'' said Dr. Steven Muller, the university's president.
        Frank Press, president of the National Academy of Sciences, of which Professor Wolman was a member, called him ''one of the great Americans of the 20th century'' and ''truly the father of modern sanitary engineering.''
        Professor Wolman was born in Baltimore, one of six children of Polish-Jewish immigrant parents. He attended public schools and graduated in 1913 from Johns Hopkins. Although he had hoped to be a physician, his parents encouraged him to study engineering instead at the university's new School of Engineering. In 1915, he received a Bachelor of Science degree as one of its first four graduates. Joined Faculty in 1937
        He joined the United States Public Health Service to study stream pollution, then became chief engineer of the Maryland Department of Health, working on a sewage disposal plant. He joined the Johns Hopkins faculty in 1937 as chairman of the department of sanitary engineering.
        With Linn H. Enslow, Professor Wolman developed a method for chlorinating water that would kill pathogens but not harm people who drank the water.
        After World War II he became interested in the disposal of radioactive wastes. In 1956, he headed a committee of the National Research Council that reported that disposal of such waste ''has not yet been a contaminant of substantial public health significance.'' The report warned, however, that future developments, including more weapon testing, might change that.
        He held at least 230 positions in public health, public works, engineering and education, Johns Hopkins said. They included the presidency of the American Public Health Association and chairmanship of the National Water Resources Board. He was also consultant to the Tennessee Valley Authority. Among his many awards was the National Medal of Science, awarded in 1975, and the prestigious Tyler Ecology Award, a $150,000 prize, a year later.
        The violin was a favorite pastime and his wife, Anna Gordon, often accompanied him on the piano until she died in 1984 at the age of 91.
        He is survived by his son, Markley Gordon Wolman, and four grandchildren. His son is chairman of the department of geography and environmental engineering at Johns Hopkins, a post Professor Wolman once held.
      