
       Eric F. Goldman, chronicler of 20th-century America, special consultant to President Lyndon B. Johnson and an immensely popular author and lecturer at Princeton University, died of complications after a stroke yesterday at Princeton Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Eric F. Goldman, chronicler of 20th-century America, special consultant to President Lyndon B. Johnson and an immensely popular author and lecturer at Princeton University, died of complications after a stroke yesterday at Princeton Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Dr. Goldman retired from Princeton University in 1985 as Rollins Professor of History, a post he had held since it was created in 1962. In that time, the senior class had repeatedly voted him ''Best Lecturer of the Year.'' His course on how the United States arrived where it is today was for many years the largest upperclass course at Princeton.
        President Johnson called upon Dr. Goldman to be a consultant, and he served from 1963 to 1966.
        The author of several books, he published ''The Tragedy of Lyndon Johnson'' in 1969, intertwining his White House memoirs with a general history of the Johnson era. It became a national best seller and was widely syndicated in newspapers here and abroad.
        He also wrote the best seller, ''The Crucial Decade, America 1945-55,'' seeing it into print in 1956 and updating it in 1961 for a new edition, ''The Crucial Decade - And After, America 1945-60.'' 'Rendezvous With Destiny'
        Dr. Goldman's ''Rendezvous With Destiny: A History of Modern American Reform,'' published in 1952, was considered an example of modern historiography at its best. It won the Bancroft Prize for ''distinguished writing in American history'' and became something of a standard text for high school and college students.
        The author brought readers into the Carter years with a preface he added for the book's 25th anniversary re-issue.
        Dr. Goldman also became familiar to television audiences and on the lecture circuit. The State Department sponsored his appearances throughout Europe and in India in the 1950's, and a Bicentennial lecture tour in 1976 took him across the United States.
        From 1959 to 1967, Dr. Goldman was the moderator on a discussion program, ''The Open Mind,'' on NBC-TV. It won an Emmy in 1962 and again four years later. He could be seen as a commentator on ''CBS Morning News'' in 1975-76 and appeared on other radio and television public-affairs programs.
        He often wrote for scholarly journals and popular magazines, including Harper's Magazine, Commentary, Saturday Review and National Geographic. His reviews of books in his field regularly appeared in The New York Times Book Review. Writer for Time Magazine
        Eric Frederick Goldman was born in Washington. Educated in public schools in Baltimore, he received his Ph.D. in history at age 22 from Johns Hopkins University, where he spent three years as a lecturer.
        He then joined Time magazine, writing on national affairs, before joining Princeton as an assistant professor in 1942. He became a full professor in 1955.
        Dr. Goldman served as president of the Society of American Historians from 1962 to 1969.
        His wife, the former Joanna R. Jackson, died in 1980. A graveside service will be at 10 A.M. tomorrow at Princeton Cemetery.
      