
       David Heilweil, the former director of the drama school at the University of Connecticut and the co-founder of the Arena Theater, the first professional theater-in-the-round in New York City, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Windham Hospital in Willimantic, Conn. He was 71 years old and lived in Storrs,
        David Heilweil, the former director of the drama school at the University of Connecticut and the co-founder of the Arena Theater, the first professional theater-in-the-round in New York City, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Windham Hospital in Willimantic, Conn. He was 71 years old and lived in Storrs, Conn.
        Mr. Heilweil, a graduate of Cornell University, retired this year as head of the University of Connecticut's drama school, where for the last 18 years he had taught play-writing and screen-writing as well as publicity, advertising and stage and theater management.
        Mr. Heilweil, with co-sponsor Derrick Lynn-Thomas, opened the Arena Theater in 1950 in the ballroom of the Hotel Edison on 47th Street, between Broadway and Eighth Avenue.
        Members of the audience sitting in the first row were within inches of the slightly raised platform that served as a stage. The seating capacity was 500. Produced Television Shows
        The first play to be performed in the intimate theater was a revival of George Kelly's comedy of the 1920's, ''The Show-Off,'' staring Lee Tracy.
        In the 1940's, Mr. Heilweil founded and managed New Stages, an innovative Off Broadway theater group.
        He transferred his success from the theater to television in the late 1950's, producing ''The Untouchables,'' ''The Thin Man'' and ''Richard Diamond.''
        He also produced several feature films, including ''3:10 to Yuma,'' a western starring Glenn Ford and Van Heflin.
        At his home in Storrs, Mr. Heilweil and his wife, Eva Wolas, a former producer of television dramas for ''Playhouse 90,'' tended a personal library with more than 15,000 volumes. They began the collection with children's books for their daughter when they lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., and were working in Hollywood. The first was a copy of Anna Sewall's ''Black Beauty.''
        The collection grew to include 480 copies of ''Black Beauty'' and 300 versions of the folk tale ''Goldilocks and the Three Bears,'' as well as 2,000 volumes of plays, including 40 of ''Hamlet.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Heilweil is survived by a son, Nicholas, of Storrs; a daughter, Alexandra Schuenke, of Boulder, Colo.; three grandsons, and two sisters, Hannah Blumenfeld of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Dorothy Korn, of Boca Raton, Fla.
      