
       Hans Helmut Kirst, one of West Germany's most popular postwar novelists, died yesterday in Bremen, West Germany. He was 74 years old.
        Hans Helmut Kirst, one of West Germany's most popular postwar novelists, died yesterday in Bremen, West Germany. He was 74 years old.
        Among his 46 books was ''The Night of the Generals,'' which was published in 1964 by Harper & Row and is still in print. ''As engrossing a thriller as John le Carre's 'Spy Who Came In From the Cold,' '' said a review in The New York Times. The book became a successful Hollywood film.
        Mr. Kirst's works sold more than 12 million copies and were translated into 28 languages. He was the most widely read German novelist of the 1950's despite his indictment of his country under Hitler.
        An officer in the German Army during World War II, Mr. Kirst said he at first doubted accounts of Nazi atrocities. ''One did not really know one was in a club of murderers,'' he said. His novels, many of them replaying the events of the war, reflect his acceptance of his nation's guilt.
        ''As one who reminds his countrymen of things they would just as soon forget, Kirst has been described as a conscience for his people,'' said his biographical sketch in ''Contemporary Authors.'' Some critics, however, charged him with trivializing the history of the Third Reich. The Common Man
        His first novel, in 1950, told of a young German officer who sabotaged a Nazi garrison and was translated as ''The Lieutenant Must Be Mad.'' He won an international reputation with the trilogy ''Zero Eight Fifteen,'' a satire on army life centered on Gunner Asch, a private who tried to buck the system. This was a constant theme in his works: the common man, often a soldier, pitted against the establishment.
        The trilogy was widely praised for its grittiness, honesty and humor. ''An ingenious and acidly satirical story of barracks life in the German Wehrmacht,'' The Times's critic wrote.
        Not all Mr. Kirst's novels were about war: ''The Seventh Day,'' published in 1957, was a macabre fantasy about the week before a nuclear holocaust. While critical reaction to his early books was enthusiastic, reviewers cooled in their response to his novels of the 1970's.
        Born in Ostroda, then part of Germany but now in Poland, Mr. Kirst enlisted in the army in 1933 and, having ''confused National Socialism with Germany,'' he said later, joined the Nazi Party. He was a first lieutenant at the war's end and was a prisoner of war.
        In 1965, he won the Edgar Allan Poe Award for ''The Night of the Generals.'' He was a member of P.E.N. and the Authors Guild.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth, and a daughter.
      