
       John Cassavetes, an actor, screenwriter and director who was in the forefront of American cinema verite, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 59 years old.
        John Cassavetes, an actor, screenwriter and director who was in the forefront of American cinema verite, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 59 years old.
        A spokesman for the actress Gena Rowlands, to whom Mr. Cassavetes was married for more than 30 years, said death resulted from complications of cirrhosis of the liver. Miss Rowlands was at his side when he died.
        As an actor, Mr. Cassavetes was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actor in 1967 for his role as a psychopathic killer in the Robert Aldrich war film ''The Dirty Dozen.'' He had starring roles in ''Edge of the City,'' ''Rosemary's Baby,'' ''Two Minute Warning,'' ''If It's Tuesday It Must Be Belgium'' and ''The Fury.''
        But it was as a fiercely independent writer and director who was deeply resentful of big studio interference in the making of his often quirky, mostly improvisational films that Mr. Cassavetes won his measure of fame. First Film Won Prize
        His first independent film, ''Shadows,'' in which he did not appear, was shot in 16 millimeter with a hand-held camera, cost only $40,000 and won the 1960 Critics Award at the Venice Film Festival. Before that he had acted in live dramas during the so-called Golden Age of Television in the 1950's.
        Mr. Cassavetes's other films, usually idiosyncratic and always bearing his unmistakable directorial stamp, included ''Too Late Blues,'' ''Faces,'' ''Husbands,'' ''Minnie and Moskovitz'' and ''A Woman Under the Influence.'' ''Gloria,'' starring Miss Rowlands, won the 1980 Golden Lion Award at the Venice Film Festival.
        Mr. Cassavetes was born Dec. 9, 1929, in New York City, and grew up in an upper-middle-class home on Long Island. A loving if hectic home life set him on his independendent ways, he said in a 1970 interview.
        ''My parents allowed their two sons to be individuals,'' Mr. Cassavetes said. ''My family was a wild and wonderful place, with lots of friends and neighbors visiting and talking loud and eating loud and nobody telling the children to be quiet or putting them down.'' Devoted to the Method
        Mr. Cassavetes majored in English at Mohawk College and at Colgate University, but dropped out to become a sports announcer. After reading the plays of Robert E. Sherwood, he enrolled in the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in Manhattan, graduating in 1950. While playing in summer stock he became a devotee of the Stanislavskian school of Method acting.
        Mr. Cassavetes landed a bit part in the movie ''14 Hours'' in 1951 and made his television debut in a segment of the ''Omnibus'' program in 1953. In the three years that followed he appeared in 80 substantial television roles on ''Studio One,'' ''Kraft Theater,'' ''Playhouse 90'' and ''Alcoa Theater.'' He re-created some of those roles, notably those of young criminals, in the movies ''The Night Holds Terror'' and ''Crime in the Streets.'' In the late 1950's he had his own weekly detective series, ''Johnny Staccato,'' on television.
        The actor began conducting a class in Method acting in 1956, and out of it evolved his first film, ''Shadows.'' He got the urge to make the film during an improvisational exercise, and over a period of two years filmed the movie on New York streets from his own bare-bones outline, allowing his unknown actors to let the story unfold in their own words. Dealing with racial relations, the movie was daring for its time.
        The black-and-white 16-millimeter film was blown up into 35-millimeter, giving it a grainy quality that caused some critics and audiences to marvel at its ''true life'' look, as opposed to the slick studio look of most Hollywood movies. ''Shadows'' was a hit at the Venice Film Festival, and in the years that followed Mr. Cassavetes almost invariably won high praise for his films among European cineastes, who considered him a major New Wave film maker. Agonized Over Editing
        His initial success won Mr. Cassavetes directing and writing contracts for two Hollywood movies, ''Too Late Blues'' and ''A Child Is Waiting,'' but because he shot so much film and agonized endlessly over editing, the studios took them out of his control. Both were commercial failures.
        Thereafter Mr. Cassavetes acted in other directors' films in order to earn money to finance his own movie projects. Among the films in which he acted were ''Mikey and Nicky,'' ''Brass Target,'' ''Whose Life Is It, Anyway?'' and a 1964 remake of ''The Killers'' in which Ronald Reagan co-starred.
        ''Faces,'' which Mr. Cassavetes wrote and filmed over eight months, documented the disintegration of a marriage. The film won five prizes at the 1970 Venice festival, and was also a commercial success, earning more than $10 million - 10 times its cost.
        ''Faces'' was followed by ''Husbands,'' in which Mr. Cassavetes co-starred with his friends Peter Falk and Ben Gazzara. It concerned three men approaching the age of 40 who attend a friend's funeral. They brood about their own mortality, become panicky and embark on a weeklong binge of alcohol, jokes, songs and, finally, flight to London. Although ''Husbands'' received praise, it was also criticized as self-indulgent and unpolished. Finished Script Was a Novelty
        For ''A Woman Under the Influence,'' one of several Cassavetes films that starred Mr. Falk and Miss Rowlands, the film maker departed from his usual practice and worked from a finished script. As was the case with his other highly personalized films, audiences and critics either loved or despised the movie, which was released in 1974. That was also the case with ''The Killing of a Chinese Bookie'' (1976), ''Love Streams'' (1984) and ''Big Trouble'' (1986).
        Of ''Big Trouble,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times: ''It's great seeing Mr. Cassavetes direct a heedless comedy that appears to be a result of special friendships, rather than (like 'Husbands') an exhausting analysis of them. He can be a very funny man.''
        Mr. Cassavetes's ''Opening Night,'' filmed in 1978, made its United States debut at the New York Film Festival in 1988. In a review in The Times, Janet Maslin characterized the film as ''sprawling, funny, emotionally raw'' and ''a relatively thin example of the director's work, but a mischievous and inviting one, too.''
        Mr. Cassavetes is survived, in addition to his wife, by two sons, Nicholas and Xan, and a daughter, Zoe.
      