
       Rabbi Samarious Gourary, the executive director for the past 48 years of United Lubavitcher Yeshivoth, the educational arm of the Lubavitcher Hasidim, died after a brief illness at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center yesterday. He was 91 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        Rabbi Samarious Gourary, the executive director for the past 48 years of United Lubavitcher Yeshivoth, the educational arm of the Lubavitcher Hasidim, died after a brief illness at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center yesterday. He was 91 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        Rabbi Gourary rebuilt the Yeshivoth in the United States after coming here from Russia in 1940. The Yeshivoth, which operates day schools, rabbinical colleges and seminaries worldwide, was founded 92 years ago in Russia by Rabbi Joseph I. Schneersohn, Rabbi Gourary's father-in-law.
        Rabbbi Gourary is the brother-in-law of Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the present rebbe of the Lubavitcher Hasidim, the largest Hasidic sect in the United States.
        In 1985, he played a role in the bitter family dispute and subsequent court battle that began when his son, Barry S. Gourary, claimed as his inheritance and then sold more than 100 of Rabbi Joseph I. Schneersohn's books that had survived the Holocaust.
        Rabbi Gouray was reported to have ordered his son, a management consultant who was estranged from the Lubavitcher sect, to return the books and threatened to testify against him. The case was unusual because it is rare for an important dispute within the Hasidic community to be pursued in the civil courts.
        A Federal District judge in Brooklyn in 1987 awarded the libary to the Lubavitch community.
        Rabbi Gourary was born in Kremenchug in the Ukraine in December 1897.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Channa of Montclair.
        Correction:  February 15, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary in late editions on Sunday and in all copies on Monday about Rabbi Samarious Gourary, executive director of United Lubavitcher Yeshivoth, gave his residence incorrectly. He lived in Brooklyn, not Montclair, N.J.
      