
       Irving Brown, an international affairs specialist for the American trade-union movement for more than four decades, died of intestinal cancer yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 77 years old.
        Irving Brown, an international affairs specialist for the American trade-union movement for more than four decades, died of intestinal cancer yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 77 years old.
        Since World War II, Mr. Brown had held a number of high posts representing the American Federation of Labor and later the merged A.F.L. and Congress of Industrial Organizations. For the last three years he had been a senior adviser to Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        Mr. Brown was at times denounced by right-wing Americans as a Communist sympathizer, while the Communists branded him an agent of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, working on both sides of the Atlantic, he spearheaded a drive to prevent Communist takeovers of European trade unions and international labor groups. Last October, in recognition of his long service in the labor movement, he received the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Son of Teamsters' Leader
        ''We have lost a giant,'' Mr. Kirkland said yesterday. ''No other individual did more than Irving to protect and advance workers' rights in every nation around the world.''
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Brown was the son of a leader in the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. He earned his tuition at New York University by working as a waiter, a shipping clerk, a baggage handler and a copy boy for The New York Times, among other jobs.
        After graduating with a degree in economics in 1932, at the depth of the Depression, he became an organizer for the United Automobile Workers at Ford and General Motors plants. By 1940 he had become a national organizer for the A.F.L. and in 1942, shortly after the United States went to war, he was named a labor representative to the War Production Board.
        When the war ended Mr. Brown joined the Foreign Economic Administration as a representative of both the A.F.L. and the C.I.O., seeking to put into effect American labor policy in occupied areas of Europe. But he soon quit in a dispute with occupation authorities, who he felt were trying to prevent German trade unionists from becoming an effective national force. Represented A.F.L. in Europe
        The A.F.L. promptly appointed him to be its European representative and he traveled among the Western countries offering aid to workers' groups.
        Because the French labor movement was largely controlled by Communist and other leftist unions, Mr. Brown set up headquarters in Brussels. From there he organized committees of French maritime and dock workers to combat Communist cells that were trying to block delivery of Marshall Plan cargoes. For that and other efforts he was roundly denounced in the Communist press as a henchman of the American State Department.
        In the United States, the newspaper columnist Westbrook Pegler and other right-wing spokesmen attacked Mr. Brown for, as Mr. Pegler wrote, having served in the 1930's as a Communist ''stooge'' trying to undermine the American Socialist Party from within.
        In a letter that Mr. Pegler printed in his column, Mr. Brown said in reply: ''I fought against Communists long before you ever decided that it was good business to fight them.''
        From 1965 until 1973, Mr. Brown was executive director of the African American Labor Center, providing technical aid to free trade unions in Africa. He returned to the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s European office, now in Paris, in 1973. He was named the organization's director of international affairs in 1982, a post he held until becoming Mr. Kirkland's senior adviser in 1986.
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife, Irene, and a son, Robert.
      