
       Barney Tobey, whose gently humorous cartoons appeared in The New Yorker for more than five decades, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Barney Tobey, whose gently humorous cartoons appeared in The New Yorker for more than five decades, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Until his death Mr. Tobey was a contract artist for the magazine, which published more than 1,200 of his cartoons and four of his cover illustrations.
        Frequently his ideas came from his own experience. Once Mr. Tobey and his wife attended an outdoor concert in Paris where the mosquitoes were so aggressive the conductor replaced his baton with a fly swatter. Thus, another B. Tobey cartoon was born.
        Mr. Tobey was born July 18, 1906, in Manhattan. He attended public schools and drew a cartoon strip called ''Ambitious Ambrose'' at Evander Childs High School. His father, Nathan, who was born in Russia, sold paper and twine from a pushcart and later papered the walls of his store with his son's drawings. Museums Showed His Work
        After high school Mr. Tobey won a scholarship to the New York School of Fine and Applied Arts but left after a year to work in the art department of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, the advertising agency. He worked there for six years before becoming a freelance artist and cartoonist. He later attended the Art Students League.
        Mr. Tobey's work was exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of the City of New York, the Grolier Society and Princeton University.
        In 1976 he had a one-man show at the Nicholls Gallery in Manhattan, of which John Russell, chief art critic of The New York Times Times, said: ''With some cartoonists, the caption helps the drawing along. With others the drawing raises hopes which the caption doesn't fulfill. With Tobey, the two are in a perfect equilibrium.''
        A collection of his cartoons, ''B. Tobey of The New Yorker: Cartoons by Barney Tobey,'' was published by Dodd, Mead & Company in 1983. He also illustrated many children's books, theater posters and book covers.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Szanton; a son, David, and a daughter, Natasha, both of Manhattan.
      