
       Richard B. Morris, a pre-eminent Colonial and American constitutional historian and a former chairman of the history department at Columbia University, died of melanoma, a type of skin cancer, Friday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N
        Richard B. Morris, a pre-eminent Colonial and American constitutional historian and a former chairman of the history department at Columbia University, died of melanoma, a type of skin cancer, Friday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        Professor Morris provided new insights into the talents of the nation's founders in scores of books that he wrote or edited. He detailed the towering achievements of John Jay, the nation's first Chief Justice, and scrupulously oversaw repeated editions of the ''Encyclopedia of American History.'' He was also an expert on American legal and labor history and was a former president of the American Historical Association. He also was a former president of the Society of American Historians.
        At Columbia, Professor Morris was the Gouverneur Morris Professor of History. He was not related to the colonial-era Federalist diplomat and financial expert for whom his professorship was named. When he retired in 1973, Professor Morris made these observations:
        ''We no longer have men in public life of the stature of our Founding Fathers. The impact of immediacy created by TV has placed a premium not on reflection and reason, but on the glib answer and the bland statement. The politician is concerned with public relations, not with public principles. In the founding of the nation we needed charismatic figures, but today we could do with honest ones. In Harding's time, they stole national assets; at Watergate, they tried to steal the country.'' Wrote of Early Statesmen
        One of his works detailed for the first time how early American statesmen, led by John Jay, negotiated the favorable 1783 peace treaty establishing American independence by taking a gamble that paid off. Jay held direct talks with English ministers, violating instructions to uphold strictly the alliance with France, which was honoring Spain's territorial claims in North America. The strategy impressed the French and won a treaty that not only recognized America's independence, but also gave the new nation a wilderness empire stretching from the Appalachians to the Mississippi that Americans had not conquered.
        The book, ''The Peacemakers: The Great Powers and American Independence,'' published in 1965, took five years to complete, including ferreting out and scrutinizing material, some secret, in eight countries.
        Other books written by Professor Morris included ''Government and Labor in Early America'' (1946), ''John Jay, the Nation and the Court'' (1967), ''The Emerging Nations and the American Revolution'' (1970), ''Seven Who Shaped Our Destiny'' (1973) and ''The Forging of the Union 1781-1789'' (1987). He edited four volumes of the unpublished papers of John Jay and, with Henry Steele Commager, a 40-volume history, The New American Nation Series.
        Reviewers for The New York Times hailed Professor Morris's ''talent,'' ''skill,'' ''graceful prose'' and ''crisp narrative style'' and termed him ''a master craftsman'' and an ''essential scholar of the Constitutional era.'' His many honors included the 1988 Bruce Catton Prize for lifetime achievement in the writing of history awarded by the Society of American Historians. 'Democracy Can Survive'
        Richard Brandon Morris was born in Manhattan on July 24, 1904. He earned a B.A. degree cum laude at City College in 1924 and A.M. and Ph.D. degrees at Columbia University in 1925 and 1930. He taught history, and gained successive promotions, at City College from 1927 to 1949 and at Columbia from 1946 to 1973. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, was a professor at many universities around the world and the recipient of many honorary degrees.
        Asked during the 1976 bicentennial whether American democracy was strong enough to withstand another century without traumatic change, he replied he was ''cautiously optimistic,'' but warned ''we are now in an interdependent world, where we are not completely masters of our own destiny'' as ''we were before 1945. I think that democracy can survive in a world at peace, but our system would be drastically altered, if not imperiled, if we were to face years of war.''
        Professor Morris was highly critical of public opinion polls, saying they often ''do not present the issues fairly'' and ''the results often are casual, random'' and not ''carefully considered.'' Still, he said, ''the Founding Fathers talked about people being right at the last. They felt that the leaders should make the initial decisions and that ultimately the people, after learning the facts, would endorse or reject such actions, for basically their instincts were sound.''
        American society has always been ''rather divided,'' he believed, but the one event that most united the country was World War II. Possibly by luck, he said, emergencies have spawned leaders who rallied the people and moved the nation forward from crises.
        Asked which of America's founders would be most at home in today's society, Professor Morris replied: Benjamin Franklin, because he was a scientist, urban, cosmopolitan and resilient. Of the others, he said, Jefferson would be shocked by urban decay, advanced industrialism and environmental ravages; Madison would deplore the pervasive materialism; Washington, as an engineer, technocrat and man of affairs, would enjoy himself, but Adams would always be ''very fault-finding'' and could never ''be at home anywhere'' at any time.
        In The New York Times Magazine in 1961, the professor analyzed the sense of humor displayed by the Presidents, giving the highest rating to Lincoln, for exemplifying frontier and animal imagery, to Theodore Roosevelt, for showing a Western tinge and Tom Sawyer impulsiveness and to Kennedy, for an intellectual subtlety.
        Professor Morris is survived by his wife, the former Berenice Robinson; two sons, Jeffrey Brandon Morris, of Philadelphia, and Donald Robinson Morris, of Cheyenne, Wyo., and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at Columbia.
      