
       Edward Abbey, a naturalist, novelist and one-time forest ranger, died of a circulatory disorder yesterday at his home in Oracle, Ariz. He was 62 years old.
        Edward Abbey, a naturalist, novelist and one-time forest ranger, died of a circulatory disorder yesterday at his home in Oracle, Ariz. He was 62 years old.
        Mr. Abbey was described as ''a voice crying in the wilderness, for the wilderness,'' by Edwin Way Teale in The New York Times Book Review on Jan. 28, 1968. Reviewing ''Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness,'' Mr. Teale wrote that to ''the builders and developers'' among park administrators, ''his book may well seem like a wild ride on a bucking bronco. It is rough, tough and combative. The author is a rebel, an eloquent loner.''
        In that work Mr. Abbey offered a prescription on how to save the West's dwindling natural resources and monuments: ''No more cars in national parks. Let the people walk. Or ride horses, bicycles, mules, wild pigs -anything - but keep the automobiles and motorcycles and all their motorized relatives out . . . A civilization which destroys what little remains of the wild, the spare, the original, is cutting itself off from its origins.'' Wrote 'Monkey Wrench Gang'
        Mr. Abbey's most recent novel, ''The Fool's Progress,'' was published last fall. Among his other titles are ''Good News,'' a novel on 21st-century life in the United States; ''The Journey Home,'' ''Down the River'' and ''Beyond the Wall,'' books of essays; ''Abbey's Road,'' ''The Hidden Canyon'' and ''The Monkey Wrench Gang,'' a novel about a gang of ecological saboteurs that destroys railroads and bridges in the American Southwest. The book, published in 1976, sold in the hundreds of thousands in paperback, and made Mr. Abbey an underground cult hero throughout the West. A sequel to ''The Monkey Wrench Gang'' is to be published next winter.
        His 1956 novel ''The Brave Cowboy'' was later made into a film, ''Lonely Are the Brave,'' starring Kirk Douglas.
        The author, who was born in Home, Pa., received graduate and postgraduate degrees from the University of New Mexico, and attended the University of Edinburgh.
        In addition to his wife, Clarke, Mr. Abbey is survived by three sons, two daughters and his father, Paul Revere Abbey.
      