
       Philip D. Reed, a former chairman of the General Electric Company and a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 89 years old.
        Philip D. Reed, a former chairman of the General Electric Company and a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Reed joined General Electric in 1926 and rose to become its chairman when he was 40 years old. He held that post until 1958, when he retired to become a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He served as its chairman from 1959 to 1965.
        Mr. Reed was born in Milwaukee and graduated from the University of Wisconsin with a degree in electrical engineering and from Fordham University Law School. He worked as a patent lawyer before joining General Electric.
        His combination of expertise in law and engineering made him a potent executive at G.E. After World War II, he led the company's conversion back to production of consumer goods from the manufacture of military equipment. He presided over an expansion of plants to meet growing postwar consumer demand.
        During World War II, while still at G.E., he took a dollar-a-year appointment as a consultant in the Office of Production Management. He was deputy chief of the United States Mission for Economic Affairs in London, assisting W. Averell Harriman, and later became chief of the mission.
        In 1945, he was a consultant to the United States delegation to the United Nations Conference on International Organization in San Francisco. As a member of the Committee for the Marshall Plan to Aid European Recovery, he suggested that Americans reduce their food budgets by 10 percent to aid Europe.
        He headed the United States mission on the Anglo-American Council of Productivity, established in 1948 to help increase British industrial productivity. He was a member of the Advisory Commission on Information, a propaganda advisory group in the State Department.
        He was a former president of the International Chamber of Commerce and was honorary president at his death. He was a former board member of the American Express Company, Bigelow-Sanford, Cowles Communications, Eurofund International, the Kraftco Corporation, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the National Education TV and Radio Center, the Otis Elevator Company, the Scott Paper Company, Tiffany & Company and the Bankers Trust Company.
        He was a former director of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former vice president of the Metropolitan Opera Association.
        Surviving are a son, Philip Jr., of Princeton, N.J.; a daughter, Kathryn Reed Smith of Davis, Calif.; 4 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren. His wife, the former Mabel Mayhew Smith, died in 1984.
        A memorial service is to be announced.
      