
       James Edwin Doyle, a founder of the Doyle Dane Bernbach advertising agency, died of emphysema Sunday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Doyle, who was known as Ned, was 86 years old.
        James Edwin Doyle, a founder of the Doyle Dane Bernbach advertising agency, died of emphysema Sunday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Doyle, who was known as Ned, was 86 years old.
        Mr. Doyle, a lawyer who went into advertising during the Depression, joined with Maxwell Dane and William Bernbach in 1949 to found an agency that would become one of the first to have an international clientele.
        At the time, Mr. Doyle and Mr. Bernbach were vice presidents of Grey Advertising. Mr. Dane, a tennis friend and former colleague of Mr. Doyle, had once owned a small Manhattan agency. The three men decided to strike out on their own, with Mr. Doyle recruiting clients, Mr. Dane in charge of administration and Mr. Bernbach handling most of the creative side. Trained as a Lawyer
        The combination worked. By 1967 their agency had become the eighth largest in the country and Mr. Doyle was made chairman of the executive committee. He retired in 1969.
        A native of New York City, Mr. Doyle was a graduate of Hamilton College and of Fordham Law School. Although he passed the examination for admission to the New York bar in 1931, he did not practice law, choosing instead to work selling advertising space in magazines.
        ''In those days,'' he said later, speaking of the 1930's, ''after you passed the bar you went to work in a law office for $10 a week. I was making $75 a week selling space. I couldn't afford to quit.''
        He worked for Cosmopolitan magazine before being hired in 1936 as the first advertising manager for Look magazine. He later worked for Good Housekeeping before enlisting in the Marine Corps in 1942. Out of the Mess
        Mr. Doyle, who was sent to Hawaii, was made a mess officer because of his experience with Good Houskeeping. He protested and soon was made an intelligence officer in Marine aviation, serving in the Pacific and emerging as a captain at the war's end.
        After the war he joined Grey Advertising as an account executive, but soon left to form Doyle Dane Bernbach. The agency is now part of DDB Needham Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicon Group.
        After his retirement Mr. Doyle became chairman of the Simmons Market Research Bureau, which specializes in magazine audience research. A college football player and an avid sports fan, he offered to buy the New York Jets football team for $11.5 million in 1967 but was turned down. Three years later he bought the Floridians, a professional basketball team in the American Basketball Association, which he operated for two seasons.
        Mr. Doyle's longtime companion was Marguerite Jossel. He is survived by two sons, Michael, of Oakland, Calif., and Anthony, also of California; a daughter, Ellin Goodhue of Portland, Me., and four grandchildren.
      