
       Maris Liepa, a star of the Bolshoi Ballet whose virile dramatic portrayals made him especially popular in the West, died Saturday in Moscow. He was 52 years old.
        Maris Liepa, a star of the Bolshoi Ballet whose virile dramatic portrayals made him especially popular in the West, died Saturday in Moscow. He was 52 years old.
        Mr. Liepa had a heart attack, said his son, Andris, who is performing with American Ballet Theater in California.
        A bravura technician in the Bolshoi from 1960 to 1981, Mr. Liepa was the embodiment of the masculine heroic style that was traditional to the Moscow company. Nonetheless, audiences at home and throughout the world were stunned by the overwhelming expressive power that Mr. Liepa poured into his indisputably great performance as Crassus, the Roman tyrant in ''Spartacus.''
        The Bolshoi star created the part in Yuri Grigorovich's version of the ballet to the Khachaturian score in 1968. In 1970, he received the Lenin Prize, the Soviet Government's highest award, for his portrayal.
        As Crassus, Mr. Liepa brought something new to Soviet ballet. The forcefulness of his dancing and the intelligence of his characterization made a negative character equal to the so-called positive hero that Socialist Realism had bequeathed to contemporary Soviet ballet. His Crassus was cruel and sensual, momentarily crushed into cowardice. Cast opposite Vladimir Vasiliev's Spartacus, Mr. Liepa held his own and made this a duel of two great dancers. 1975 Tour of U.S.
        Mr. Liepa also danced a variety of 19th-century classics. In his last tour with the Bolshoi to the United States in 1975, the admirable passion of his Albrecht in ''Giselle'' showed off the mix of realism and romanticism that was typical of his style.
        Maris-Rudolf Eduardovich Liepa was born in Riga, Latvia, on July 27, 1936. After studying at the Riga Opera Ballet school, he entered the Bolshoi school and graduated in 1955. Mr. Liepa returned to dance with the Riga company, then joined the ballet company of the Stanislavsky Nemirovich-Danchenko Theater in Moscow in 1956. He joined the Bolshoi in 1960 and also taught at its school.
        His repertory included the leading roles in ''Swan Lake,'' ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' ''Raymonda,'' ''Don Quixote,'' ''Les Sylphides'' and Leonid Lavrovsky's ''Romeo and Juliet.'' He was also Spartacus in Leonid Jakobson's 1962 version of the ballet, Ferhad in the Grigorovich ''Legend of Love'' and Vronsky in ''Anna Karenina.'' Dancer Wrote 3 Books
        ''You will never confuse him with another dancer,'' said Marina Semyonova, the leading ballerina of the 1930's who is now a Bolshoi coach. ''He is a dancer of great individuality - always elegant, clean and noble.''
        Mr. Liepa wrote three books, articles and ballet reviews. Interested in dance history, he revived Fokine's ''Spectre de la Rose'' for the Bolshoi in 1967. He also acted in feature films, including ''The Fourth,'' in which he played a left-wing American ballet dancer. He performed and choreographed in such dance films as ''Hamlet.'' In recent years, he had directed the Bulgarian National Ballet in Sofia and taught in Greece. He had just formed a new ballet company that was to have started work yesterday.
        Mr. Liepa's survivors include his son and a daughter, Ilze, both dancers in the Bolshoi.
      