
       Jehiel R. Elyachar, an engineer, philanthropist and Manhattan real-estate developer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Jehiel R. Elyachar, an engineer, philanthropist and Manhattan real-estate developer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Elyachar was born in Jerusalem and educated as an engineer in Paris. He came to the United States in 1928 and entered the real-estate business in New York by founding the Straight Construction Corporation. During the Depression, he took over failing properties from banks, managed them and paid off their debts.
        At the start of World War II in Europe, he joined the Army as a private and by 1944 was a colonel in charge of military intelligence for Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. His engineering skills enabled him to speed Gen. George C. Patton's tanks into Germany. He was awarded the Legion of Merit.
        After the war, he returned to his real-estate and construction business, building apartment buildings and motels. Eventually his holdings were worth more than $100 million. He later turned his interests to philanthropy, giving to American and Israeli causes.
        He was a founder and later became president of the American Society for Technion, a support group for the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, that country's primary technical-education institution. The society raised money for scholarships and financial support of the institution, whose students and alumni constitute about 75 percent of Israel's scientists and engineers. A Philanthropic Gesture
        He also established a chair of Sephardic studies at Yeshiva University. The family's collection of Ladino and Sephardic literature, the largest in the Western Hemisphere, is housed at the Yeshiva library in Manhattan. Mr. Elyachar also established a Sephardic Home for the Aged in Brooklyn.
        Several years ago Mr. Elyachar's philanthropy resulted in a lawsuit, filed by his children, over the ownership of four pieces of real estate in Manhattan. The children, who said he had given them the properties over the years, believed he intended to give the properties to one of his charities. Mr. Elyachar disputed the claim. A relative said the courts had ruled that he had, in fact, transferred ownership to the children.
        He is survived by his wife, Anna Tulin; twin sons and a daughter by a previous wife, who died, Ralph and Daniel Elyachar, both of Sarasota, Fla.; and Ruth Dvorkin, of Scarsdale; 12 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 31, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary yesterday about Jehiel R. Elyachar, a real estate developer and philanthropist, incorrectly described a lawsuit filed against him several years ago. He was sued by his sons, Ralph and Daniel, but not by his daughter, Ruth Dvorkin.
      