
       Robert Mapplethorpe, a photographer whose widely exhibited pictures combined classical beauty with sometimes shocking subject matter, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome yesterday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Robert Mapplethorpe, a photographer whose widely exhibited pictures combined classical beauty with sometimes shocking subject matter, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome yesterday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Mapplethorpe was first diagnosed as having AIDS two and a half years ago, according to Howard Read of the Robert Miller Gallery in New York, which represents his work. Since then, the artist had become for many a symbol of courage and resistance to the disease; his willingness to publicize his illness helped focus attention on AIDS throughout the art world and nationwide.
        His 1988 self-portraits, which show his once-handsome face grim and emaciated, have appeared in many magazines in recent months. They are included in the artist's current retrospective exhibition, which was organized by the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia and is now on view at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. Last summer, the Whitney Museum of American Art presented an independent survey of work throughout the artist's career. An Instrument of Invention
        Mr. Mapplethorpe first gained widespread notice in the late 1970's for his elegantly composed, beautifully printed black-and-white photographs of the male figure, many of which were explicitly homoerotic. But he photographed the female nude with equal stylishness. Throughout his career he made portraits and still lifes of an almost sublime simplicity and intensity.
        His photographs show a remarkable ability to give even the most common photographic subjects the status of icons. He was interested in the camera less as a documentary tool than as an instrument of invention and role playing. In two companion self-portraits taken in 1980, for example, he appeared once as a leather-jacketed, macho tough and again as a sultry, heavily made-up femme fatale.
        Born in New York on Nov. 4, 1946, Mr. Mapplethorpe studied at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn from 1963 to 1970. He began his career as an independent film maker and as an artist who used photographs within sculptural collages and constructions. Influenced by Sculpture
        Even after he became known as a photographer, sculpture remained a significant influence. In the spring of 1988, his show at the Robert Miller Gallery in New York featured works that combined photographic images printed on linen, panels of exotic fabrics and wood frames of his own design. Besides printing on linen, he also produced editions of platinum prints and flocked images.
        In style, Mr. Mapplethorpe's photographs most closely resemble those of George Hoyningen-Huene and George Platt Lynes, two fashion photographers of the 1920's and 30's remembered for their mastery of light, classical compositions and indebtedness to Surrealism. Like them, Mr. Mapplethorpe was much in demand as a commercial photographer. No matter how paltry or outrageous the subject before the camera, he rendered it with the same cool, almost clinically dispassionate gaze. Designed a Coffee Table
        Besides being influential as a photographer, Mr. Mapplethorpe helped inspire Sam Wagstaff, the artist's companion in the 1970's and a well-known art curator and collector, to begin collecting photography on an enormous scale. Mr. Wagstaff, who died of AIDS in January 1987, eventually assembled a collection of several thousand images, which he sold to the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., in 1984.
        Mr. Mapplethorpe collected photographs of his own as well as furniture, fabric and art objects. An esthete of wide-ranging tastes, he also designed furniture; one of his designs for a coffee table was produced in a limited edition. The coffee table was a centerpiece of Mr. Mapplethorpe's exquisitely decorated apartment in Manhattan.
        Last year Mr. Mapplethorpe established the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, which is to focus on funding both medical research, with an emphasis on AIDS, and the visual arts, with an emphasis on photography.
        Mr. Mapplethorpe's photographs are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and other major museums in the United States, Europe and Japan. Over the last 10 years he had solo exhibitions in New York at the Robert Samuels Gallery, the Holly Solomon Gallery and the Robert Miller Gallery. His photographs also have been shown at the Pompidou Center in Paris, the St. Louis Art Museum, and the Institute for Contemporary Art in London.
        Selections of his photographs are collected in the books ''Robert Mapplethorpe Photographs'' (Norfolk, Va., 1978), ''Lady: Lisa Lyon'' (Viking 1983), ''Robert Mapplethorpe: Certain People'' (Twelvetrees Press, 1985) and ''Robert Mapplethorpe,'' the catalogue to the Whitney Museum's 1988 exhibition.
        Mr. Mapplethorpe is survived by his parents, Harry and Joan Mapplethorpe, of Floral Park, Queens; two sisters, Nancy Rooney, of Bay Shore, L.I., and Susan Schneider, of Munsey Park, N.Y.; and two brothers, James, of Dix Hills, L.I., and Ed, of New York City.
        A memorial service is being planned, according to Mr. Mapplethorpe's lawyer, Michael Stout.
      