
       John P. McGrath, a lawyer, banker and real-estate developer who served as New York City's Corporation Counsel and as a member of the Waterfront Commission of New York and New Jersey, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        John P. McGrath, a lawyer, banker and real-estate developer who served as New York City's Corporation Counsel and as a member of the Waterfront Commission of New York and New Jersey, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        A soft-spoken son of an Irish immigrant, Mr. McGrath grew up in Brooklyn, earned a law degree at Fordham University and parlayed diligent work for the Democratic Party into a series of posts in politics and public service in the 1940's and 1950's.
        He was Mayor William O'Dwyer's Corporation Counsel from 1947 to 1951, served as the New York representative on the bi-state Waterfront Commission in 1955 and 1956 and was manager of W. Averell Harriman's campaigns for governor of New York in 1954 and 1958.
        On the Waterfront Commission, Mr. McGrath helped draft legislation that consolidated its control over the piers, that closed out the last havens for longshoremen with criminal records and that excluded loan sharks, bookmakers and other lawless elements from the docks. Trustee of L.I.U.  From 1951 to 1966, Mr. McGrath was a prominent trial lawyer and senior partner of the law firm now known as Fulbright Jaworski & Reavis McGrath. In 1966, he joined the East New York Savings Bank as president and was chairman from 1971 until his retirement in 1982.
        With the late Sol G. Atlas, Mr. McGrath built a number of office buildings in New York, including towers at 1 and 2 New York Plaza and 115 Broad Street in lower Manhattan and 111 Livingston Street in Brooklyn.
        Mr. McGrath was a trustee emeritus of Long Island University, which he rescued from bankruptcy and helped to operate for many years. First named a trustee of the university by a Federal Court in 1943, he helped reorganize a school that fell into financial troubles during World War II, when many young men were away and enrollments declined sharply.
        He became a regular trustee of the university in 1946 and served as chairman of the board from 1967 to 1974. He was instrumental in helping the school to acquire seven acres on which its Brooklyn campus is situated, and he helped establish the university's C. W. Post College campus in 1955 and its Southampton College campus in 1963. An Active Democrat
        John Patrick McGrath was born in Brooklyn on Jan. 12, 1907. He attended Eastern District High School and earned law degrees at Fordham in 1926 and Brooklyn Law School in 1928. He practiced law in Brooklyn from 1928 to 1947.
        Active for many years in Democratic Party affairs, he worked in and managed political campaigns and was chairman of the law committee of the Kings County Democratic Party when Mayor O'Dwyer named him as the Corporation Counsel in 1947 to succeed Charles E. Murphy, who assumed a seat on the State Supreme Court.
        As Corporation Counsel, he had a running battle with Michael J. Quill, president of the Transport Workers Union, who sought without success to organize New York City's police officers into the union of subway and bus workers.
        After managing Mr. Harriman's 1954 campaign, Mr. McGrath was named by the Governor to a seat on the Waterfront Commission in 1955. The appointment was criticized as a repayment of a political debt, but Mr. McGrath, in only one year on the commission, was given high marks for closing loopholes in laws aimed at cracking down on port crime.
        Mr. McGrath left the law firm to become president of the East New York Savings Bank. Although he was no longer a member of Fulbright Jaworski, he was a counsel to the law firm at the time of his death.
        He is survived by his wife, Lucy Flemming McGrath; four daughters, MaryLucy Walkowicz, Irene Ann McCreery and Elizabeth (Lisa) Brown, all of New York City, and Lucy Joan Triulzi, of Rome; two brothers, Thomas J. and Michael J., both of New York City; two sisters, Mary Hagarty and Catharine McGrath, both of New York City, and nine grandchildren.
        A funeral Mass will be held Monday at 10 A.M. at St. Vincent Ferrer Roman Catholic Church. Burial will be in Holy Rood Cemetery in Westbury, L.I.
      