
       Richard Armour, a popular and prolific writer of whimsical and satirical verse and a retired college professor of English literature, died of Parkinson's disease Tuesday at a convalescent home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82 years old.
        Richard Armour, a popular and prolific writer of whimsical and satirical verse and a retired college professor of English literature, died of Parkinson's disease Tuesday at a convalescent home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82 years old.
        Dr. Armour, irreverent and irrepressible, wrote more than 60 books, mostly with a free verse he, as Robert Frost had, likened to playing tennis without a net. Among the books were ''It All Started With Columbus'' (on history), ''It All Started With Stones and Clubs'' (warfare) and ''It All Started with Eve'' (sex). Other Armour targets were literature, education, sports and adolescence, and he dubbed some works ''thumbnail or hangnail biographies.''
        Mr. Armour was an authority on Chaucer and the English Romantic poets. He was a professor of English at Scripps College in Claremont from 1945 to 1966. During his 40-year academic career, he also lectured at more than 200 campuses around the world. 'Lightness' to the Classroom
        His greatest achievement, he said, was ''to bring lightness as well as enlightment into the classroom.'' His most loyal readers were high-school and college students, whose letters, he remarked, ''thank me for taking the dullness out of study, making learning fun.'' Most readers and reviewers praised him, while a minority accused him of lapsing into doggerel and puns, which he insisted on calling ''wordplay.''
        Among the best known of Dr. Armour's efforts were:
        Shake and shake the catsup bottle. None will come, and then a lot'll. With pointed remarks I often agree Provided they haven't been pointed at me. The older I get, the less I pine for Things that I have to stand in line for.
        Richard Willard Armour was a native of Pomona, Calif., where his father owned a drugstore. He graduated from local schools and Pomona College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He then earned master's and Ph. D. degrees in English literature at Harvard and was a Harvard research fellow at the Victoria and Albert Museum library in London.
        Dr. Armour's awards included many honorary doctorates. In World War II, he was an Army antiaircraft artillery officer and a member of the general staff of the War Department, rising to the rank of colonel. He was awarded the Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster.
        Surviving are his wife, Kathleen; a son, Geoffrey, of Carlsbad, Calif.; a daughter, Karen Ries, of Carmichael, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      