
       Charles Billingslea, a retired Army major general who served in World War II and Korea and later helped to enforce judicial desegregation orders in Mississippi and Alabama, died of pneumonia Tuesday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Oxford, Md.
        Charles Billingslea, a retired Army major general who served in World War II and Korea and later helped to enforce judicial desegregation orders in Mississippi and Alabama, died of pneumonia Tuesday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Oxford, Md.
        General Billingslea, a 1936 graduate of the United States Military Academy, served as a paratrooper in World War II, where he took part in assault landings with American forces at Algiers and joined a British unit in airborne operations in Tunisia.
        He was the executive officer with the 82d Airborne Division and participated in some of the fiercest fighting in Europe. His units made jumps into Sicily and Salerno and were involved in fighting at Naples, Volturno, Cassino and Anzio and later in operations in the Netherlands.
        After the war he taught at the Command and Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., and later was with the Supreme Headquarters, Allied Powers in Europe. After an assignment at the Pentagon, he became chief of staff of the United States Eighth Army in Korea.
        In 1962 he took command of the Second Infantry Division at Fort Benning, Ga,. and in late September of that year he was ordered to mobilize Army units and federalized Mississippi National Guardsmen in Oxford, Miss., as efforts were made to enforce desegregation at the University of Mississippi and enroll James H. Meredith as a student. Mr. Meredith entered the university after rioting that resulted in three deaths, In May 1963 General Billingslea was sent to Birmingham, Ala., where troops were stationed as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. led five weeks of demonstrations to end segregation there.
        General Billingslea retired in 1966 and moved in 1981 to Oxford, Md., from Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, Bettina; a son, Charles, of Macon, Ga.; and a sister, Mabel Brooks, of Santa Rosa, Calif.
      