
       Konrad Lorenz, perhaps this century's most widely known experts on animal behavior, died Monday at his home in Altenburg, Austria, east of Vienna, at the age of 85. The Austrian Press Agency said he died of kidney failure.
        Konrad Lorenz, perhaps this century's most widely known experts on animal behavior, died Monday at his home in Altenburg, Austria, east of Vienna, at the age of 85. The Austrian Press Agency said he died of kidney failure.
        Dr. Lorenz spent much of his career trying to demonstrate, by animal experiments, the large extent to which such aspects of human behavior as aggression were inherited. In 1973 he shared a Nobel Prize with two other ethologists, or investigators of animal behavior in the wild.
        He became famous for his ''imprinting'' of newly born ducks and geese with the feeling that he was, in effect, one of their parents. This was demonstrated in photographs showing him followed by trains of goslings or immersed in a pond, except for his bushy white head and beard, with his ''children'' floating nearby.
        Particularly popular were his books ''On Aggression'' and ''King Solomon's Ring.'' The title of the latter was based on the myth that a magic ring enabled King Solomon to converse with the birds and beasts.
        In ''On Aggression,'' he noted that, until television brought the Vietnam War into the home, wartime killing had become so impersonal that face-to-face inhibitions no longer applied. Wolves, he said, are more restrained. In combat the defeated animal ritually bares its neck and the victor lets him escape. Theory About Aggression
        ''There is indeed the possibility that the evolutionary process has in gray antiquity bred into us an excess of aggression,'' he said in a lecture. ''In our day, with its changed ecological conditions, this excess has become a serious danger to mankind.''
        In human history, Dr. Lorenz wrote, the day will come ''when two warring factions will be faced with the possibility of each wiping the other out completely.'' The fate of mankind, he said, will be settled by the response. ''We may well be apprehensive,'' he added, a gloomy outlook that persisted into his later years.
        Eliot Fremont-Smith, reviewing ''On Aggression'' in The New York Times, concluded: ''It is, I submit, an epoch-making book. It is also a profoundly civilizing one.''
        Nevertheless, Dr. Lorenz was also criticized. Howard Gardner, a research psychologist at Harvard University, said: ''Lorenz has suspended his scientific caution to give rein to speculation. He has, for instance, issued impassioned statements on man's aggressive nature and on the discontents of civilization.''
        Dr. Lorenz spent much of his professional career in Germany. He served as an infantry physician on Germany's Russian front in World War II and was a Soviet prisoner of war in Armenia from 1944 to 1948. His theories on the inheritance of behavioral traits fueled Nazi arguments on race and in 1973, when accepting the Nobel Prize, he conceded that one of his 1940 papers reflected Nazi views.
        For short time, he said, ''many decent scientists'' hoped, as he did, that good would come from National Socialism. Then, he said, many turned away from it ''with the same horror as I.''
        Konrad Zacharias Lorenz was born in Vienna on Nov. 7, 1903, the younger son of Dr. Adolf Lorenz, described as an ''orthopedic wonder worker.'' His mother, Emma, was also a physician. In later life he ceased using his middle name. Early Love of Pets
        In addition to a city apartment, the family had a large estate in Altenburg where the young Lorenz raised a multitude of dogs, geese and monkeys, as well as fish, crustaceans and insects caught in a neighboring pond.
        ''I owe undying gratitude to my patient parents,'' he wrote in ''King Solomon's Ring,'' saying they only ''shook their heads or sighed resignedly when, as a schoolboy or young student, I once again brought home a new and probably yet more destructive pet.''
        At the age of 19, after early education in Viennese private schools, he enrolled in Columbia University as a medical student. His father was then a visiting surgeon in New York and urged a medical career on his son despite the latter's longing to study animals. Konrad remained only one year, becoming fluent in English, then returned to receive a doctorate in zoology from the University of Vienna in 1933.
        Dr. Lorenz had begun working at Altenburg with jackdaws and his career was launched in 1927 when his brief report on their behavior was published in a Leipzig ornithological journal. He spent what he called his ''goose summers'' at Altenburg, showing that by quacking suitably he could imprint parental loyalty on newborn geese.
        In 1937 he became a lecturer at the University of Vienna and, three years later, was made professor of psychology at the University of Konigsberg (now Kaliningrad in the Soviet Union).
        After the war he received a grant from the newly formed Max Planck Society for the Advancement of Science, enabling him to resume his research at Altenburg. Later Dr. Lorenz was director of the Institute for Behavioral Physiology at Seeweisen in Bavaria.
        He shared the Nobel Prize with two other pioneers of ethology. Karl von Frisch, also an Austrian, and Nikolaas Tinbergen of the Netherlands.
        Dr. Lorenz, a sturdy man who prided himself on rough clothes, expressed strong views on many subjects. He favored ''artificial families'' in which several natural families developed a close bond. ''The father-mother family with two children isolated in a city flat is already insufficient,'' he said. He was not arguing for many children, but for an extended group on which children could depend for close ties.
        While arguing for hereditary influence, he believed, from his own family experience, that fears of lightning and snakes were taught, rather than inherited. It is natural that children should love violent fairy tales, he said, knowing they are make-believe.
        His many books included ''Man Meets Dog,'' ''The Foundations of Ethology,'' ''The Waning of Humaneness,'' ''Behind the Mirror - A Search for a Natural History of Human Knowledge'' and ''The Year of the Greylag Goose.''
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margarethe Gebhardt, a gynecologist, two daughters, Agnes and Dagmar, and a son, Thomas.
      