
       William Drought Cox, a former owner of the Philadelphia Phillies who was banned from baseball after he admitted betting on his team in 1943, died Tuesday at the Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Somers, N.Y.
        William Drought Cox, a former owner of the Philadelphia Phillies who was banned from baseball after he admitted betting on his team in 1943, died Tuesday at the Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Somers, N.Y.
        A restless entrepreneur who had a varied career both in and out of sports, Mr. Cox generally had better business success outside the field of athletics.
        He was a successful dealer in American art in the 1930's, and operated a lumber business in Oregon that supplied all the pilings used to reinforce the Panama Canal during World War II. More recently, he created the Disney stamp program in which several foreign countries, mostly small Caribbean nations, issue stamps depicting Disney characters, primarily for sale to the hobby market. Owned Two Football Teams
        Mr. Cox was born in New York City and attended New York University and Yale.
        At different times, he owned both the New York Yankees and the Brooklyn Dodgers pro football teams. He also founded the International Soccer League.
        In March 1943, at the age of 33, he bought the ailing Phillies franchise for $80,000 in cash and immediately set about reviving a team that had been last for five straight seasons.
        With the help of his new manager, Bucky Harris, Mr. Cox assembled a viable team, which managed to hold on to fifth place through midseason. Then Mr. Cox dismissed Mr. Harris, and the team sank to a seventh-place finish, while doubling attendance for the year. Report to the Commissioner
        The dismissal of Mr. Harris helped shorten Mr. Cox's baseball career. Friends of the deposed manager told the baseball commissioner, Kenesaw Mountain Landis, that early in the season, Cox had been betting on Phillies games.
        Mr. Cox, who had already been forced by the commissioner to get out of horse racing because of that sport's involvement with gambling, at first denied the charge. Then he admitted it, but said he had not known about the rule barring an owner from betting on his own team. He said he had stopped as soon as he was told about it.
        Later he said he had made only small, sentimental bets with friends, even though he had previously admitted to the commissioner that he had placed bets with bookmakers, a false admission, he later argued, that he had made to smoke out a disloyal Phillies employee.
        In the end, the commissioner ruled against him, and Mr. Cox, who owned the Phillies for eight months, sold the team to the Robert R. M. Carpenter family, which owned it until 1981.
        Mr. Cox, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Elliott Needles Cox; a daughter, Carol Cox Heath; a son, William Jr., and five grandchildren.
      