
       Zita, the last Empress of Austria-Hungary, died yesterday at her longtime residence, a Roman Catholic home for the elderly in Zizers, a village in eastern Switzerland. She was 96 years old.
        Zita, the last Empress of Austria-Hungary, died yesterday at her longtime residence, a Roman Catholic home for the elderly in Zizers, a village in eastern Switzerland. She was 96 years old.
        News agency reports of her death were confirmed by an official reached at the Zizers police headquarters.
        Zita was crowned at 24, left her realm at 27 and was widowed at 30. Born a princess of the House of Bourbon-Parma, she was the consort of Karl I, a member of the Hapsburg dynasty who was the last Emperor.
        Karl was born an archduke and was crowned King of Hungary as well as Emperor of Austria after the death in 1916 of his great-uncle, Emperor Franz Josef. He thrust himself into official matters but was ordered by his Government in 1918 to take no further part in the direction of state affairs. He and Zita, whom he married in 1911, moved to Switzerland in 1919. Failed to Restore Monarchy
        Zita and her husband failed in two attempts in 1921 to be restored as monarchs in Hungary. She used to say the latter attempt failed only because all the Hungarian railroad trains were so full of the beet crop that there was no transportation avilable to move the Hapsburg supporters to Budapest.
        Karl died in 1922. After her husband's death Zita donned nunlike mourning clothes and for some years moved about Europe in the interests of the Hapsburg succession, especially promoting the ascension of Otto, her eldest son, to the Hungarian throne.
        In her declining years, Zita lived for a time in Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
        She would be seen taking little lonely walks near her home, a strange black-veiled figure wearing high-button shoes.
        The Almanach de Gotha listed Zita as the 10th of the 19 children of the deposed Duke Robert of Bourbon-Parma. Her mother, Duke Robert's second wife, was the former Princess Antonia of the royal family of Portugal, the house of Braganza. Born on May 9, 1892
        Zita was born on May 9, 1892, at the Villa Pianore near Viareggio, Italy, and received an education calculated to endow her with piety and a decorous interest in music.
        On Oct. 21, 1911 she was married Archduke Karl. He became the heir to Franz Josef in 1914, when the previous heir, Karl's uncle Archduke Franz Ferdinand, was assassinated along with his wife.
        After reigning for 64 years, Franz Josef died on Nov. 21, 1916, and Karl and Zita were crowned, first in Vienna and then in Budapest, in lavish ceremonies criticized by many of their subjects as being inappropriate for the moment when privation caused by World War I was beginning to take effect.
        Prodded by Zita, the mild and well-meaning Karl reorganized the Government with such tactlessness that on Nov. 11, 1918, he was ordered by his Government to refrain from the overseeing of affairs of state. The move to Switzerland ensued. Chaotic Conditions
        Conditions in Hungary became chaotic after the Austro-Hungarian capitulation and order was restored by Adm. Nicholas Horthy de Nagybanya, who was named Regent of Hungary on March 1, 1920.
        Karl returned to Hungary on March 20, 1921, in an appeal to regain his throne but was asked by Admiral Horthy to leave the country. On Oct. 21 of the same year Karl and Zita flew to Hungary, landing in a wheatfield where they met with a group of royalist sympathizers, and headed a march on Budapest. At Torbagy, near the capital, they were surrounded by Hungarian police and arrested two days later.
        Admiral Horthy turned Karl and Zita over to the British, who exiled them to Funchal, Madeira. Karl contracted pneumonia and died on April 1, 1922, two months before Zita's eighth child was born.
        The year 1930 found Zita living with her family in the castle of Steenockerzeel near Brussels.
        When the Germans invaded Belgium in May 1940, Zita and her family fled, just ahead of the Nazis and came to the United States as refugees on July 20, 1940.
        The first of Zita's children was Otto, widely known as Otto von Hapsburg, a writer and a member of the European Parliament who lives in Pocking-Starnberg in southern West Germany.
        The Associated Press reported that after a private funeral today in Switzerland, Zita's body is to lie in state at St. Stephen's Cathedral in Vienna, where a requiem Mass is to be held April 1. The agency also reported that interment is to be in a vault at the Capuchin Church in Vienna.
      