
       Kermit K. Beahan, who dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan, died of cardiac arrest Thursday at St. John Hospital in nearby Nassau Bay, a day after undergoing prostate surgery. He was 70 years old and lived in Clear Lake, a Houston suburb.
        Kermit K. Beahan, who dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan, died of cardiac arrest Thursday at St. John Hospital in nearby Nassau Bay, a day after undergoing prostate surgery. He was 70 years old and lived in Clear Lake, a Houston suburb.
        On Aug. 9, 1945, his 27th birthday, Captain Beahan was the bombardier on the B-29 Great Artiste that dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, the second dropped on Japan. It was estimated that 70,000 people were killed.
        Captain Beahan flew in a plane that escorted the Enola Gay, which dropped the first atomic bomb, that one on Hiroshima on Aug. 6, 1945.
        In 1985, on the 40th anniversary of the Nagasaki bombing, Mr. Beahan said he would never apologize for the bombing. He said 25 Japanese sought him out a few years earlier and told him the bombing was the ''best way out of a hell of a mess.''
        But he said he hoped to be the last man ever to drop such a bomb on people.
        Mr. Beahan, a native of Joplin, Mo., attended Rice Institute, now Rice University, on a football scholarship. He joined the Army Air Corps hoping to be a pilot, but he became a bombardier after failing as a pilot candidate.
        He took part in 40 missions over Europe, including the first B-17 raids.
        Mr. Beahan recalled the Nagasaki bombing in an interview with The Houston Chronicle.
        ''I saw a mushroom cloud bubbling and flashing orange, red and green,'' Mr. Beahan said. ''It looked like a picture of hell. The ground itself was covered by a rolling black smoke. I was told the area would be destroyed, but I didn't know the meaning of an atomic bomb.''
        Mr. Beahan retired from the Air Force as a lieutenant colonel in 1963 and worked for Brown & Root Inc., an engineering and construction concern, as a technical writer until he retired in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife, Teresa; a daughter, Lisa Harrison of Houston; two sons, Patrick of Dallas and Kermit Jr. of Honolulu, and a brother, Ken, of Austin, Tex.
        Correction:  March 21, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on March 11 about Kermit Beahan, bombardier on the World War II airplane that bombed Nagasaki, Japan, misidentified the plane. It was called Bock's Car, not the Great Artiste.
      