
       Dr. Mark M. Ravitch, a surgeon, teacher, author of medical textbooks and an editor of several professional journals, died of cancer of the prostate and colon Wednesday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 78 years old.
        Dr. Mark M. Ravitch, a surgeon, teacher, author of medical textbooks and an editor of several professional journals, died of cancer of the prostate and colon Wednesday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 78 years old.
        At his death Dr. Ravitch was professor of surgery at the University of Pittsburgh and had recently retired as surgeon in chief at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He had previously been head of the department of pediatric surgery at the University of Chicago, professor of surgery at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore and clinical professor of surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
        While at Columbia he was director of surgery at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. At Johns Hopkins he was surgeon in chief of the Baltimore City Hospitals.
        Dr. Ravitch was an authority on the correction of deformities in the chest wall, and wrote extensively on congenital hernias of the diaphragm. His analysis of intussception in infants and children, a disease in which the intestines do not connect properly, led to a treatment that avoided surgery. Historian of Surgical Group
        In the early 1960's Dr. Ravitch was one of the first American surgeons to introduce mechanical stapling devices, first developed in Europe, for surgical use in the United States.
        He was the author of 22 medical texts, wrote more than 450 scientific papers and editorials and contributed more than 100 chapters to books written by others. As a result of his extensive wrotings he was named official historian of the American Surgical Association, of which he was president in 1983 and 1984. He wrote a two-volume chronology, ''A Century of American Surgery,'' documenting surgical developments from 1880 to 1980.
        Dr. Ravitch was born in New York City and was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Oklahoma. He received his medical degree from Johns Hopkins. In World War II he served as an Army surgeon in Europe with the rank of major.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Irene Ravitch, whom he married in 1931; two daughters, Nancy Schwentker of Hummelstown, Pa., and Binnie Ravitch of New York City; a son, Michael Mark of Chicago, and five grandchildren.
      