
       John Christian Warner, a prominent chemist who was president of the Carnegie Institute of Technology from 1950 to 1965, died in his sleep early yesterday at his suburban Pittsburgh home in Friendship Village. He was 91 years old.
        John Christian Warner, a prominent chemist who was president of the Carnegie Institute of Technology from 1950 to 1965, died in his sleep early yesterday at his suburban Pittsburgh home in Friendship Village. He was 91 years old.
        In the last two years of World War II Dr. Warner worked on the Manhattan Project, where he supervised research in the chemistry and metallurgy of plutonium, which was used in making the atomic bomb that was used at Nagasaki. He later served on the general advisory committee of the Atomic Energy Commission, on the policy advisory board of the Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois and helped to plan construction and programs for the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island.
        He was the first president of the consortium of universities that planned and built the country's most powerful particle accelerator at the Fermi Laboratory in Batavia, Ill.
        Dr. Warner began his association with Carnegie Tech, now Carnegie-Mellon University, in 1926 as a chemistry instructor. He was chairman of the chemistry department from 1938 to 1949 and was also dean of graduate studies from 1945 to 1949. He served as vice president of the university for a year before becoming president.
        Dr. Warner was credited with building Carnegie Tech from a regional college into a nationally known research institution. He was a pioneer in the use of computers in education, establishing a computer center in 1956. The campus in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh grew by 20 percent while he was president. A year after his retirement the university's newly completed administration building was named John C. Warner Hall.
        Over the years Dr. Warner gained renown in the fields of physical chemistry and electrochemistry. He was the co-author of six books and published many research papers.
        A native of Goshen, Ind., Dr. Warner began his education in a one-room school. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Indiana University and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He served as president of the Electrochemical Society in 1951 and of the American Chemical Society the following year. Among the many academic and professional honors he received was the gold medal of the American Institute of Chemists in 1953.
        Under Ford Foundation auspices, Dr. Warner was a frequent adviser on higher education to governments in Southeast Asia. He served industry as a director of such concerns as Jones & Laughlin Steel, the Dravo Corporation, Magnetics Inc. and PPG Industries.
        His wife, Louise, died in 1981. He is survived by two sons, William, of Minneapolis and Thomas, of Holland, Mich.; three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      