
       Hu Yaobang, who helped navigate China away from orthodox Marxism and led the world's largest Communist Party for six years until he was forced to resign in disgrace in January 1987, died today, the Government announced. He was 73 years old.
        Hu Yaobang, who helped navigate China away from orthodox Marxism and led the world's largest Communist Party for six years until he was forced to resign in disgrace in January 1987, died today, the Government announced. He was 73 years old.
        The official New China News Agency said Mr. Hu suffered a heart attack on April 8 from which he never recovered. Mr. Hu suffered the heart attack during a meeting last Saturday of the Politburo.
        Mr. Hu's vigor and impetuousness carried him from a humble peasant family, which he left at age 14 to join the Communist guerrilla forces fighting in China's civil war, to the summit of power in the capital. And yet the same characteristics ultimately doomed him, for other officials chafed at his tendency to make startling statements without thinking them through or consulting his colleagues. Had Few Sacred Cows
        Nothing was sacred to Mr. Hu, not the memory of Mao Zedong, not even chopsticks. On a trip to Inner Mongolia in 1984, he suggested that the Chinese might start using Western utensils.
        ''We should prepare more knives and forks, buy more plates and sit around the table to eat Chinese food in the Western style, that is, each from his own plate,'' he urged. ''By doing so, we can avoid contagious diseases.'' Mr. Hu dropped the idea after his startled colleagues reproached him for criticizing a Chinese way of life.
        In a nation where caution is often prized, he was the exception. Mr. Hu was one of the first Chinese leaders to abandon the Mao suit in favor of jacket and tie. And when he was asked which of Mao's thoughts were applicable in China's efforts to modernize its economy, he is reported to have replied: ''I think, none.''
        Mr. Hu played a critical role in helping his long-time mentor, Deng Xiaoping, gain and consolidate power in the late 1970's. In the early- and mid-1980's, he was in charge of day-to-day matters during China's liberalization. And yet his extraordinary career was overshadowed by its even more extraordinary end: the blur in December 1986 and January 1987 that included tumultuous student demonstrations, a torrent of criticisms against him by top-level officials, his resignation, and the subsequent campaign against ''bourgeois liberalization,'' or Western democratic influences.
        His resignation came to be a milestone in post-Mao China, for several reasons. It showed that resistance to rapid change and personal style was still considerable, especially among ''old revolutionaries'' and military officials. And it upset the plans for an orderly succession under which Mr. Hu could have taken over from Mr. Deng as paramount leader, instead opening the way for the rise of more cautious officials like Li Peng, now Prime Minister. Resignation and Crackdown
        The resignation of Mr. Hu and the subsequent crackdown on intellectuals also intensified many people's disillusionment with the Communist Party and added to the difficulties that Beijing has had in enforcing its will in the provinces.
        ''I am not a man of iron,'' Mr. Hu was once reported to have said. ''I am a man of passion, of flesh and blood.'' It was a fair assessment of a leader who was so focused on change and the future that he neglected his flank, and as a result lost the power to effect any further change at all.
        In the period in which he served as top official of the Party, from 1981 to 1987, Mr. Hu was often in the shadow of Mr. Deng. Thomas Chan, a China scholar at the University of Hong Kong, noted that while he was outspoken, Mr. Hu never transcended the process of collective decision-making. Unlike Mr. Deng or Mao, Mr. Hu never achieved the stature that would allow him to take major initiatives on his own.
        Still, as time went on and Mr. Deng began to withdraw from day-to-day management of the country, it was Mr. Hu as much as anyone who tugged China toward market economics and a more open political system. In some ways Mr. Hu seemed to resemble his mentor. Like Mr. Deng, Mr. Hu was diminutive, barely five feet tall, but fired with enormous energy and pragmatism, as well as a penchant for bluntness that got him in trouble.
        Associates in the party and the military criticized Mr. Hu for moving too fast toward the market and for his tolerance of dissident intellectuals. Even Mr. Deng turned against him after students began demonstrating in several cities and calling for greater democracy.
        After his ''resignation,'' Mr. Hu retained his seat on the Party Politburo but never again appeared to exert much influence. After that, Mr. Hu rarely appeared in public, and he always seemed a somewhat tragic figure: a symbol of the constraints on how much any one leader can push for change.
        Mr. Hu was born in November 1915 in Liuyang City of Hunan Province, the remote south-central region of spicy food and rebellious farmers. Mr. Hu's parents were poor peasants and as a child he apparently never attended school, although he later taught himself to read. He participated in his first rebellion at the age of 12, and at the age of 14 he ran away from home to join the Communist rebels.
        In 1934 and 1935, Mr. Hu was one of the youngest participants in the legendary Long March, during which the Communist rebels fled on foot 6,000 miles from southeast China to their new base in northwest China. Later he became an army political officer and quickly impressed his superior, Deng Xiaoping. After the Communist victory, Mr. Hu followed Mr. Deng to Beijing and became head of the Communist Party's organization for young people, which he ran for the next 15 years.
        After Mao Zedong launched the Cultural Revolution in 1966, Mr. Deng fell from power and Mr. Hu fell with him. His head was shaved and he was sent to the countryside to tend livestock. He even ate and slept with the sheep and horses. Mr. Deng was restored to power from 1973 to 1976, and Mr. Hu's career was resuscitated for that period. Then Mr. Deng and Mr. Hu were purged again in early 1986, near the end of the Cultural Revolution. A Landmark Meeting
        In 1977, after Mao had died and the country was seeking new directions, Mr. Deng and Mr. Hu began a slow return. At a landmark Central Committee meeting at the end of 1978, Mr. Hu was not only named to the Politburo but also head of the Party's organization and propaganda departments. Mr. Hu won influence and helped consoldiate Mr. Deng's rise to preeminence. His own star was also soaring.
        He was named to the re-created post of General Secretary of the Party, and in 1982 became Party General Secretary.
        His downfall came in January 1987, amid a flurry of secret meetings that are still not entirely understood. On Jan. 16, 1987, a somber television announcer read a statement that Mr. Hu had resigned after making ''a self-criticism of his mistakes on major issues of political principles in violation of the Party's principle of collective leadership.'' Years in Seclusion
        Mr. Hu subsequently went into seclusion, and the Beijing Review reported in 1988 that he spent his time reading reminiscences of China's revolutionary marshals, practicing calligraphy and walking long distances for exercise. In April 1989 he was reported to have suffered a heart attack during a meeting of the Politburo. Two days later Prime Minister Li Peng said he had visited Mr. Hu in the hospital and found him recovering.
        The ''resignation'' of Mr. Hu seemed to harm the Party's own credibility, but it also appeared to bolster his own. He increasingly became viewed, particularly by intellectuals, as a man who had refused to bend with the political winds and who had paid the price.
        There is a tradition in Chinese folklore of the wise prime minister who offers the Emperor sound advice but is scorned and sent away in disgrace, and some Chinese seemed to view Mr. Hu in that light.
      