
       Harold T. P. Hayes, a former editor of Esquire magazine who nurtured the novelistic and experimental new journalism of the 1960's, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62 years old and lived in West Los Angeles.
        Harold T. P. Hayes, a former editor of Esquire magazine who nurtured the novelistic and experimental new journalism of the 1960's, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62 years old and lived in West Los Angeles.
        Mr. Hayes oversaw the new journalism in Esquire, beginning with an impressionistic account by Norman Mailer of the Democratic National Convention in 1960. ''During his tenure, he was responsible for the continuous apperance of this innovative journalism,'' the editor in chief of Esquire, Lee Eisenberg, said.
        Esquire ''was the center of the new journalism,'' said Gay Talese, who wrote 30 articles for the magazine. ''All the major pieces I did were under Harold's aegis. 'The Kingdom and the Power,' about The New York Times, started with his idea. He nurtured a generation of writers.''
        ''He was one of the great editors,'' said Tom Wolfe, who wrote some of his first important articles in Esquire. ''Under him, Esquire was the red-hot center of magazine journalism. There was such excitement about experimenting in nonfiction, it made people want to extend themselves for Harold.'' Dispute With Gingrich
        Tom Morgan, Truman Capote and James Baldwin also wrote highly praised work in the magazine.
        Mr. Hayes joined the magazine in 1956 and became managing editor in 1960. He was appointed editor in 1964. In 1973, he resigned in a dispute with Arnold Gingrich, the publisher, whom Mr. Hayes was expected to succeed. The Hearst Corporation now publishes Esquire.
        With George Lois, the art director, Mr. Hayes was also responsible for some attention-getting covers, including Andy Warhol's drowning in a can of Campbell's Soup.
        The magazine reflectd the turbulence of the 60's, the civil rights movement, the anti-Vietnam War movement, flower children, drugs and, later, the women's movement.
        ''He took the sparks flying from the culture, grabbed them and turned them over to exactly the right writers,'' said Mr. Eisenberg, who was hired by Mr. Hayes.
        From 1973 to 1980, Mr. Hayes was a magazine consultant. He was vice president for editorial planning at CBS Publications from 1981 to 1984 and editor of California magazine from 1984 to 1987. He was also a producer of ''20/ 20'' at ABC News and was host of an interview program on WNET-TV. Books on Ecology
        Mr. Hayes was born in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was an alumnus of Wake Forest University. Mr. Hayes was also a Nieman Fellow at Harvard University.
        Mr. Hayes wrote two books on ecology, ''The Last Place on Earth,'' published in 1977 by Stein & Day, and ''Three Levels of Time,'' published in 1981 by E. P. Dutton.
        He was a former chairman of the board of visitors of Wake Forest and a former chairman of the American Society of Magazine Editors.
        Surviving are his wife, Judy Kessler; a daughter, Carrie O'Brien of Luxembourg; a son, Thomas, of Manhattan; a brother, James Jr., of Winston-Salem; a sister, Phyllis Johnson of Rock Hill, S.C., and a granddaughter.
      