
       Pembroke Squires, one of a group of fashion designers in the 1950's and 1960's who made American sportswear memorable, died of kidney failure Wednesday at Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead, L.I. He was 69 years old and had lived in nearby Quoque since his retirement in the mid-1970's.
        Pembroke Squires, one of a group of fashion designers in the 1950's and 1960's who made American sportswear memorable, died of kidney failure Wednesday at Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead, L.I. He was 69 years old and had lived in nearby Quoque since his retirement in the mid-1970's.
        Emphasizing moderate-priced clothes, the designers brought a sense of fun to fashion and enhanced the reputation of American design.
        ''He was the best sportswear designer after Claire McCardell,'' said Louis Clausen, a friend who designed coats and suits in the same period. ''His clothes were very American looking.'' 'He Smoothed the Path'
        Mr. Squires's specialty was using simple shapes in unexpected fabrics, lively clothes that stood in sharp contrast to the serious designs coming from Paris. He was part of an adventurous group of designers that included John Weitz, Frank Smith, Frank Adams, Chuck Howard and John Norman and helped form the character of American clothes.
        ''He was one of the fathers of American sportswear,'' Mr. Weitz said. ''He smoothed the path for the rest of us.''
        Mr. Smith, currently the designer for Evan-Picone, worked with Mr. Squires at Masket Brothers. He said: ''Designing was so much fun then. Today, everything is bread and butter - you can't afford a mistake. Then, there was room for a wonderful piece of froufrou, which sometimes caught on.''
        Mr. Squires was born in Tekamah, Neb., where his father was a tractor salesman. After attending the Art Institute in Chicago, he came to New York and opened a small custom dressmaking business. In 1946, he replaced Bonnie Cashin at Adler & Adler, a sportswear manufacturer, and in the early 1950's joined Masket Brothers, where he scored his biggest success.
        Typical of the Squires touch were canvas blazers bordered in red braid, blue denim union suits with dropped seats like Dr. Dentons and ruffles in the front, and a floor-length sleeveless wool sheath in a black-and-white plaid cut on the bias. The sheath brought thunderous applause at a show sponsored by the Fashion Group for professionals in the fashion business in the 1950's.
        A cardigan sweater, with a black shawl collar, that was covered in a red and yellow cotton calico print appeared twice on the same cover of Vogue, with pants and with a skirt. Hot-pink felt blazers with gray flannel skirts were the kinds of light-hearted classics he designed for Lord & Taylor's college shop.
        After Masket, Mr. Squires designed for Cabana, Mr. Mort, Main Street and Anne Klein Studio, all concerns making moderately priced goods.
        A memorial will be held April 15 at 6 P.M. at Mr. Clausen's home, at 12 Foster Road in Quoque. There are no immediate survivors.
      