
       Donald Deskey, the innovative industrial designer whose prolific career spanned more than half a century, died of pneumonia yesterday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla., where he had lived since he retired in 1975. He was 94 years old.
        Donald Deskey, the innovative industrial designer whose prolific career spanned more than half a century, died of pneumonia yesterday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla., where he had lived since he retired in 1975. He was 94 years old.
        Best known for his 1932 design for the interiors of Radio City Music Hall, an Art Deco masterpiece, Mr. Deskey was one of the last remaining leaders of a pioneering generation of industrial designers that included Raymond Loewy, Norman Bel Geddes, Walter Dorwin Teague and Gilbert Rohde.
        From lavish interiors to household-product packaging, Mr. Deskey's designs have been woven into the fabric of American life since the early years of this century.
        ''Donald Deskey was among the leading figures to introduce modern design in the United States in the late 1920's,'' said David A. Hanks, the author with Jennifer Tober of ''Donald Deskey: Decorative Designs and Interiors,'' published by E. P. Dutton in 1987. ''Even though he looked to Europe for inspiration, his concerns were more practical and characteristic of the best of American furniture design.'' Created Crest Package
        Mr. Deskey's packaging designs are some of the most memorable and ubiquitous. A 20-year association with the Procter & Gamble Company included the design of dozens of household products, including the packaging for Crest toothpaste, which has not changed since its introduction in the 1950's.
        His package designs for Aqua Velva, an after-shave lotion, won a gold medal for the best package design in 1956 from the Package Designers Council. Mr. Deskey's work also included product designs for Cheer and Oxydol laundry detergents, Prell shampoo, Gleem toothpaste, Jif peanut butter, Pampers disposable diapers and Bounty paper towels. Examples of the extruded-aluminum lamppost he designed for New York City in 1959 stand on many city streets.
        Born Nov. 23, 1894, in Blue Earth, Minn., Mr. Deskey left the small town for California after graduating from high school in 1912. In Los Angeles he worked at a variety of jobs. He helped build the Garland Theater and worked as an engineer of public roads, a bartender and a draftsman at the Standard Oil Company.
        By 1914, Mr. Deskey was in San Francisco, a student at the Mark Hopkins Institute, working as a soda jerk and as a Marin County guide. In 1915 he began studying architecture at the University of California at Berkeley. 'Amateur or Advertising Man'
        One of Mr. Deskey's early interests was in the newly emerging abstract art. Mr. Hanks said Mr. Desky saw his first modern painting at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in 1915.
        It was not until much later that Mr. Deskey's career veered toward the emerging profession that was to be known as industrial design.
        ''The mystery is that this particular man should ever have designed anything at all,'' wrote Gilbert Seldes in a New Yorker magazine profile of Mr. Deskey in 1933, ''for until he was nearly 30, Deskey's connection with art was either that of an amateur or of an advertising man, and the future he looked forward to was that of a sound and energetic American man of business. If he had not been by nature something of a tramp, he might have been chosen to do advertising for Roxy's theater, instead of designing.''
        Mr. Hanks marks 1926 as the year in which Mr. Deskey's career as a designer began. His window displays for the Frankin Simon department store in Manhattan were noteworthy for their use of such ordinary industrial materials as corrugated iron and cork. His interest in such materials became a recurring theme in his career. Wallpaper and Plywood
        In the late 1920's, Reynolds Metals, then a young company, asked him to find new uses for aluminum foil. Mr. Deskey came up with wallpaper that was subsequently produced by F. Schumacher & Company and Thibault.
        Mr. Deskey also invented a textured plywood called Weldtex, patented in 1940, for the U.S. Plywood Corporation. This material was a result of Mr. Deskey's interest in prefabricated housing and was to be used on both exteriors and interiors to make surfaces more interesting.
        Mr. Deskey, who had homes in Scotland, Jamaica and Florida as well as an apartment in Manhattan, was also adept at luxurious interior design.
        The high-ceilinged apartment he designed in 1932 atop the Music Hall for Samuel L. (Roxy) Rothafel, the manager of the theater, is the only interior that remains of the dozens he created for such prominent clients as Adam Gimbel in 1927, Abby Aldrich Rockefeller in 1929 and Helena Rubinstein in 1930.
        Fifty-six years later, on revisiting the cherrywood-paneled suite, executed in collaboration with the architect Wallace Harrison, Mr. Deskey had complete recall of the project, remembering his no-nonsense approach. Flattering Footlights
        ''He wanted Portuguese Rococo,'' he said of his flamboyant client. ''I told him, 'You'll get American Rococo.' ''
        During that visit, Mr. Deskey also explained the apartment's unusual lighting. ''The Music Hall women liked footlights because they were very flattering,'' he said.
        Many of Mr. Deskey's furniture designs incorporated the newest technological advances and experimental materials like plastic laminates and tubular steel. In 1927, Deskey-Vollmer was established for the design and manufacture of furniture, including tables and lamps, made primarily of metal. The company lasted until 193l.
        In The New Yorker profile of 1933, Mr. Seldes wrote, ''Deskey is not a pioneer in designing furniture; his chief contribution lies in this: that he quickly saw the possibility of producing and selling modern furniture by modern methods and, being neither extravagant nor freakish, could persuade manufacturers to try tubular steel with wicker and leather.''
        Although Mr. Deskey was involved in designing furniture since the 1920's, when Paul T. Frankl commissioned him to create a series of screens, it was not until last month that he finally had his first one-man show, ''Donald Deskey, American Modern Design,'' an exhibit of furniture from the 1920's and 1930's that opened at Fifty/50, a Manhattan gallery.
        In 1988, Mr. Deskey gave the Smithsonian Institution's Cooper-Hewitt Museum in Manhattan what remained of his drawings and archives.
        He married the former Katharine Godfrey Brennan in 1952. In addition to his wife, Mr. Deskey is survived by two sons, Michael, of Manhattan, an architect, and D. Stephen, of Oxnard, Calif., a building contractor, and two grandchildren.
      