
       Charles K. McClatchy, editor and chairman of the board of McClatchy Newspapers Inc., died yesterday, apparently after suffering a heart attack while jogging. He lived in Sacramento, Calif., and was 62 years old.
        Charles K. McClatchy, editor and chairman of the board of McClatchy Newspapers Inc., died yesterday, apparently after suffering a heart attack while jogging. He lived in Sacramento, Calif., and was 62 years old.
        Mr. McClatchy was jogging in Land Park in Sacramento when ''apparently he had a coronary attack,'' said Erwin Potts, president and chief operating officer of the newspaper company.
        Mr. McClatchy was taken to the University of California, Davis, Medical Center in Sacramento, where he was pronounced dead at 1:18 P.M.
        The company he headed has been owned by the family since 1857. It publishes The Sacramento Bee and 11 other West Coast papers, including The Fresno Bee and Modesto Bee in California, The Tacoma Morning News Tribune and Tri-City Herald in Washington State and The Anchorage Daily News in Alaska.
        The McClatchy chain acquired the Daily News in 1978, stirring up vigourous newspaper competition in Anchorage.
        Mr. McClatchy was not one to shy away from competiton or controversy. His company was the object of a bitter lawsuit filed by former Senator Paul Laxalt of Nevada that played a part in Mr. Laxalt's plans to run for President.
        Mr. Laxalt dropped the suit in January 1987 and settled the newspaper's countersuit, hoping to free himself for political campaigning and fund raising.
        The suit was over an article published in The Sacramento Bee and two other McClatchy newspapers on Nov. 1, 1983. It examined Mr. Laxalt's ownership of a Carson City, Nev., hotel and casino from 1971 to 1976, when Mr. Laxalt and family members sold their inserest. Mr. Laxalt contended that the article accused him of wrongdoing, which the McClatchy chain denied.
        Charles Kenny McClatchy was born March 25, 1927, in Fresno, Calif., the son of Carlos and Phebe Briggs McClatchy.
        He attended public schools in California and received his high school diploma from Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, Mass., in 1945.
        He returned to California where he attended Stanford University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1950.
        He served in the Army from 1951 to 1953, reaching the rank of first lieutenant.
        He joined the staff of The Washington Post as a reporter in 1953 and then served as assistant press secretary for the Presidential campaign of Adlai E. Stevenson from December 1955 to November 1956.
        After serving for one year as a reporter for the ABC-TV Washington news bureau, he again returned to California, becoming a reporter for The Bee in Sacramento.
        In 1962, he was named associate editor of McClatchy Newspapers, and in 1974 he became editor. He was elected president of the company in 1978 and became chairman of the board in 1988.
        ''We have all lost a good friend,'' said Mr. Potts. ''He was a newspaperman to the core. He set high standards for his newspapers, but was unpretentious and self-effacing.''
        Mr. McClatchy was a member of the Pulitzer Prize Board, the Newspaper Advertising Bureau's board of directors, Washington Journalism Center board of trustees and the American Press Institute's board of directors executive committee.
        In 1958 he married the former Grace Kennan, daughter of George F. Kennan, former United States Ambassaor to the Soviet Union. They were divorced in 1968.
        Mr. McClatchy is survived by two sons, Charles, 30, of Phoenix and Kevin, 26, of Miami; a daughter, Adair, 28, of San Francisco; two brothers, James, 68, of Tiburon, Calif., and Ellery, 64, of Palm Beach, Fla., and his mother, Phebe, of Fresno.
      