
       Dr. Pinchas H. Peli, an Israeli rabbi and professor whose books, essays and lectures placed him among the world's most popular contemporary Jewish scholars, died of cancer complicated by pneumonia yesterday. He was 59 years old and lived in Jerusalem.
        Dr. Pinchas H. Peli, an Israeli rabbi and professor whose books, essays and lectures placed him among the world's most popular contemporary Jewish scholars, died of cancer complicated by pneumonia yesterday. He was 59 years old and lived in Jerusalem.
        Dr. Peli was a professor of Jewish studies and chairman of the department of Hebrew Literature at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, in Beersheba. He spent much time traveling, serving as visiting professor at Yeshiva University, Notre Dame University, Cornell University, the Makuya Bible Seminary in Japan and the Seminario Rabbinico in Argentina. A 'Rare Talent'
        He was the author of 11 scholarly works, including ''On Repentence: The Thought and Oral Discourses of Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik'' (Paulist Press); ''Abraham Joshua Heschel: An intellectual Biography'' (New York University Press), and ''Torah Today: A Renewed Encounter With Scripture'' (B'nai B'rith Books). ''Torah Today'' was also published in Dutch, French, Portuguese and Japanese.
        Michael Neiditch, publisher of B'nai B'rith Books, said yesterday that the Dr. Peli had the ''rare talent to satisfy the most demanding scholars and at the same time find a wide popular audience in both the Jewish and Christian worlds.''
        Dr. Peli, who was born to an Orthodox family in Jerusalem named Hacohen, took Peli - the Hebrew word for ''wonder'' - as his pen name when he began to publish poetry and essays as a young man. He used Hacohen as a middle name. Although he remained identified with the Orthodox world, Dr. Peli lectured and taught Jews of all denominations, as well as Christians.
        He opposed the efforts of the Israeli religious parties to impose greater Orthodox control over Jewish life, telling an interviewer in 1986, ''I think for the sake of religion and for the sake of Israel there must be a separation between state and religion.'' Visited the Vatican
        He was active in the Israel Interfaith Committee and made several visits to the Vatican to discuss Catholic-Jewish relations.
        Since 1984, Dr. Peli was the Bible columnist for The Jerusalem Post, commenting on the weekly cycle of Torah reading. He was editor in chief of the Encyclopedia Judaica Year Book, the Jerusalem Quarterly for Literature and Panim-el-Panim, a popular Hebrew weekly. He edited programs on Jewish themes for the Israeli television and radio.
        Dr. Peli is survived by his wife, Penina; four children, Bitkha, Emunah, Deuell and Bat-Sheva, and 13 grandchildren.
      