
       Horace L. Hodes, the New York pediatrician credited with isolating the first virus shown to cause gastroenteritis in children, died of prostate cancer yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhasset.
        Horace L. Hodes, the New York pediatrician credited with isolating the first virus shown to cause gastroenteritis in children, died of prostate cancer yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhasset.
        Dr. Hodes was a scientist, clinician and teacher at Mount Sinai Medical Center for 40 years. He played a major part in the founding of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and was appointed the center's first Herbert H. Lehman Professor and chairman of pediatrics in 1964 and Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus in 1977.
        Dr. Hodes made a number of scientific contributions, including his discovery, while a first year medical student, that the main function of Vitamin D is to bring about the absorption of calcium from the intestines. He later isolated the virus now known as the ''Rotavirus,'' the most common cause of gastroenteritis among infants and young children. He also contributed to the study of the polio virus and the development of the polio vaccine.
        Dr. Hodes was born in Philadelphia. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1928 and from its medical school in 1931. Early in his career he was associated with the Children's Hospital of Phiadelphia and subsequently with Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore. He did medical research at the Rockefeller Institute and was head of Sydenham Hospital in Baltimore, the infectious disease hospital for Johns Hopkins before coming to Mount Sinai as chairman of pediatrics in 1949, a post he relinquished in 1976.
        He was a past president of the American Pediatric Society and in 1982 was the recipient of its highest honor, the John Howland Award. He was elected to the Society of Scholars of Johns Hopkins University and wrote and contributed to numerous scientific journals and books.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anne Reber; a daughter, Ruth Rabin of Irvington, N.Y., a son, Dr. David Hodes of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.; a sister, Evelyn Wilson of Highland Park, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      