
       James Kirkwood, a novelist, actor and playwright who was a co-author of the book for the Broadway musical ''A Chorus Line,'' died yesterday in his apartment in Manhattan.
        James Kirkwood, a novelist, actor and playwright who was a co-author of the book for the Broadway musical ''A Chorus Line,'' died yesterday in his apartment in Manhattan.
        Mr. Kirkwood, whose main residence was in Key West, Fla., had been hospitalized recently in New York City. A friend, Arthur Beckenstein, said Mr. Kirkwood died of cancer, and gave the writer's age as 58, although Mr. Kirkwood had admitted to being born in 1924. ''As an actor, I got in the habit of lying about my age,'' he once explained.
        Mr. Kirkwood won both a Tony Award and a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for ''A Chorus Line,'' which he wrote with Nicholas Dante. He once described ''A Chorus Line'' as an expose of ''the whole idea of competition.'' He added: ''When you see the 16 boys and girls competing for 8 jobs, there is something so naked about it. You want everyone to get the job, but you know only half can. And that's the pull.'' The show opened in October 1975 and in 1983 became the longest-running show in Broadway history, with its 3,389th performance. It is still running. Parents in the Theater
        Mr. Kirkwood's parents were the actors Lila Lee and James Kirkwood Sr., and he followed them into show business at the age of 14. He appeared in dozens of plays and films, with an interruption in his career for a three-year stint in the United States Coast Guard. He performed in ''Panama Hattie'' and ''Wonderful Town'' and played opposite Tallulah Bankhead in ''Welcome Darlings.'' He had roles in the films ''Mommie Dearest,'' ''Oh, God, Book II'' and ''The Supernaturals.''
        He wrote the play ''Unhealthy to Be Unpleasant,'' which was produced on Broadway in 1966, and wrote the comedy, ''Legends,'' in which Mary Martin and Carol Channing toured in 1986 and 1987.
        Mr. Kirkwood's novels include ''Hit Me With a Rainbow,'' ''Good Times-Bad Times,'' and ''P.S. Your Cat Is Dead!'' He subsequently adapted ''Your Cat'' for the stage; it had a run on Broadway in 1975 and was revived Off Broadway in 1978. He also wrote the novel ''There Must Be a Pony!'' which was adapted for television in 1986 with Elizabeth Taylor starring, and a work of nonfiction, ''American Grotesque,'' about a conspiracy in the aftermath of President Kennedy's assassination. Just before his death, he had finished a nonfiction book about his experiences, entitled ''Diary of a Mad Playwright.'' Part of Comedy Team
        He also performed as part of a comedy-satire team known as Jim Kirkwood and Lee Goodman, in nightclubs around the country. The team had a radio show on WOR for several years.
        Mr. Kirkwood was a member of the Screen Actors Guild and Actors Equity Association, as well as the Dramatists Guild, the American Guild of Variety Artists and PEN.
        He is survived by a half-brother and a half-sister.
      