
       Robert L. Ketter, an authority on earthquake engineering research and a former president of the State University of New York at Buffalo, died of a heart attack yesterday at Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo. He was 60 years old and lived in Buffalo.
        Robert L. Ketter, an authority on earthquake engineering research and a former president of the State University of New York at Buffalo, died of a heart attack yesterday at Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo. He was 60 years old and lived in Buffalo.
        Dr. Ketter, a civil engineer, was director of the National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research, which was established three years ago at the university under the auspices of the National Science Foundation.
        He served as president of the university from 1970 until 1982, assuming office after more than a year of strife that had divided the 23,000-student campus. He was regarded by many students and faculty members as a ''law and order'' president and periodically faced opposition from the student Senate and some faculty groups.
        But he won praise for directing the construction of a new $750 million campus, which was completed in large part during his tenure as president. He also initiated university programs in Korea, Japan, Canada and China. Taught at Lehigh
        The national earthquake center consists of more than 80 researchers in the United States and has core components at the Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory of Columbia University and at Cornell, Lehigh and Princeton Universities and the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, as well as at the SUNY campus in Buffalo.
        Dr, Ketter was the author of more than 40 technical and educational papers and chapters in scientific journals and books. He was a co-author of several engineering texts.
        Dr. Ketter, a native of Welch, W. Va., was a graduate of the University of Missouri. He received his doctorate in civil engineering from Lehigh, where he taught before joining the Buffalo faculty in 1958 as the first chairman of a newly created civil engineering department.
        In 1964 he was appointed dean of the university's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and in 1967 he became first vice president for facilites planning, where he began the design and construction of a new North Campus in Amherst, N.Y.
        Dr. Ketter is survived by his wife, the former Lorelei Zimmerman; a son, Michael, of Pittsburgh; three daughters, Katharyne Ross, Susannah White and Mary Ann Franklin, all of Buffalo, and 10 grandchildren.
      