
       Stephen S. Chandler, a Federal judge who often feuded with other judges and lawyers, died at a hospital here early Thursday. He was 89 years old and had suffered from pneumonia and ulcers.
        Stephen S. Chandler, a Federal judge who often feuded with other judges and lawyers, died at a hospital here early Thursday. He was 89 years old and had suffered from pneumonia and ulcers.
        In 1962 Judge Chandler testified before a United States Senate subcommittee that he was afraid of being poisoned, that his telephone was tapped and that his fellow judges sometimes cursed him. Bias and Prejudice Charged
        Twice he was removed from hearing lawsuits because of allegations of personal interest or bias and prejudice. He was indicted by an Oklahoma grand jury in 1965 on charges of conspiring to have his private road paved by the county. The charge was dismissed. In 1965, the Judicial Council of the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit stripped Judge Chandler of his powers for a month, saying he was ''unable or unwilling to discharge efficiently the duties of his office.'' He took his case to the Supreme Court and was ultimately reinstated.
        He once barred the United States Attorney in Oklahoma City and five other Oklahoma City lawyers from practicing in Federal Court. The Federal appeals court overturned the ruling. Reduced Caseload at 75
        The judge announced in May 1975 that he would take senior status at the age of 75. As a senior judge, Judge Chandler was still eligible to hear cases but his caseload was greatly reduced.
        Stephen Sanders Chandler, born in Tennessee, received his law degree at the University of Kansas in 1922. He was in private practice in Oklahoma City when he was nominated to the Federal District Court by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The Senate confirmed his nomination in 1943.
        Judge Chandler was elevated to chief judge in 1956 and served in that post until 1969. He was chairman of the Judicial Administration of the American Bar Association from 1959 to 1960, and he served on the governing council of the Inter-American Bar Association from 1956 to 1973. In 1960 he was inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by a daughter and two sons.
      