
       Edward M. Brecher, an author of books and magazine articles on medical, scientific and social subjects, was found dead Saturday evening in what was apparently a suicide at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 77 years old.
        Edward M. Brecher, an author of books and magazine articles on medical, scientific and social subjects, was found dead Saturday evening in what was apparently a suicide at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 77 years old.
        In a 1979 article, ''Opting for Suicide,'' which appeared in The New York Times Magazine, Mr. Brecher, who had contracted cancer of the colon the previous year, argued in favor of the right to end one's life at a time and in a manner of one's own choosing.
        A son, Jeremy, said yesterday that one note for family and friends and another for the police were with the body. The notes said Mr. Brecher felt the time had come for him to end his life, Jeremy said.
        The police confirmed the existence of the notes and said Dr. Gurd Gudernatch, a Connecticut medical examiner, had ruled that the death was apparently a suicide. An autopsy will not be conducted, the police said. 'Scholarly Crusaders'
        For much of his long writing career, Mr. Brecher collaborated on books and articles with his wife, Ruth Ernestine Cook Brecher, who died in 1966. They received the Albert Lasker Award for medical journalism in 1963 and the Robert T. Morse Writer's Award of the American Psychiatric Association, which cited them as ''scholarly crusaders for a better life for all Americans.''
        Mr. Brecher also received the George K. Polk Memorial Award for outstanding magazine reporting in 1974 and the Alfred E. Lindesmith Award of the Drug Policy Foundation for achievement in the fields of scholarship and writing.
        The Brechers' work appeared in many periodicals, including Harper's Magazine, The Atlantic, the Saturday Evening Post, Reader's Digest, Parents' Magazine, Redbook and McCall's, as well as The New York Times Magazine.
        Mr. Brecher was born in Minneapolis. He graduated magna cum laude from Swarthmore College and received a master's degree from the University of Minnesota. For several years he wrote and conducted research for the United States Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce and the Federal Communications Commission. A Freelance Writer
        In 1947 he became an associate editor of Consumer Reports and four years later he joined the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration as an editor. Since 1952 he worked mainly as a freelance writer.
        He and Mrs. Brecher were co-authors of ''An Analysis of Human Sexual Response,'' published by the New American Library in 1966 as a version of ''Human Sexual Response,'' by William H. Masters and Virginia E. Johnson, intended for the general public.
        Among Mr. Brecher's later works were ''The Sex Researchers'' (Little, Brown, 1969) and two books published by Consumers Union, ''Licit and Illicit Drugs'' (1972) and ''Love, Sex and Aging'' (1984).
        Mr. Brecher is survived by three sons, William Earl and Jeremy, both of West Cornwall, and John, of Neerijnen, the Netherlands, and by four grandchildren.
      