
       Bethuel M. Webster, the founder of Webster & Sheffield, a Manhattan law firm, died of complications from a throat disorder Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old.
        Bethuel M. Webster, the founder of Webster & Sheffield, a Manhattan law firm, died of complications from a throat disorder Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Webster was a former president of the City Bar Association in New York from 1952 to 1954 and an adviser to former Mayor John V. Lindsay.
        Born in Denver, he graduated from the University of Colorado and Harvard Law School. He was an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1926 to 1927 and a special assistant to the United States Attorney General in the antitrust division of the Department of Justice from 1927 to 1929.
        In 1929 and 1930, as general counsel of the Federal Radio Commission, predecessor of the Federal Communications Commission, Mr. Webster played an important role in establishing the supremacy of public over private interests on the airways. He argued a number of cases upholding the Federal Government's licensing powers for radio stations, positions that were later upheld with the advent of television.
        In 1934, he founded the firm that grew into Webster & Sheffield. Mr. Webster became senior counsel in 1984.
        After World War II, Mr. Webster served as a special adviser to the High Commissioner of Germany, where he was engaged in decartelization of German industries. Under the military government, he enforced the antitrust laws and reorganized the coal and steel monopolies.
        From 1959 to 1965, he served as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. From 1965 to 1968, he was an ambassador for the United States in the mediation of a territorial dispute between Britain and Guatemala over British Honduras. Led Lindsay Transition
        He was a member of Mayor Robert F. Wagner's Committee for the Preservation of Structures of Historic and Esthetic Importance. In 1965 he headed a special committee to coordinate the transition of the Lindsay administration. In that administration, Mr. Webster was chairman of the New York City Cultural Council.
        ''He was always my guiding light, beginning with the law,'' said Mr. Lindsay, a partner in Webster & Sheffield. ''Both as a Congressman and as Mayor, I turned to him in tough ones, on relations with people and arts programs. He was a constant adviser on arts programs, of particular concern because of the creation of Lincoln Center.''
        Mr. Webster was a trustee of the Ford Foundation from 1961 to 1970. He was a former chairman of the Drug Abuse Council. He was a former member of the city's Art Commission, 1960 to 1964, a former trustee of the Institute of Public Administration and a former director of the American Arbitration Association.
        He was a former president of the Harvard Law School Association of New York City and a former chairman of the Public Education Association. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Century Association. He was also counsel for the Fund for the Republic, a research organization with a liberal philosophy, Surviving are his wife, Elizabeth; three daughters, Elizabeth Hogeland of Winsted, Conn., Clarissa Atkinson of Cambridge, Mass., and Eleanor Shakin of Manhattan; a sister, Ann Hart of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      