
       Bishop Philip J. Furlong, a retired auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of New York and the oldest Roman Catholic bishop in the United States, died Thursday at the rectory of St. Thomas More Church in Manhattan. He was 96 years old and lived at the rectory.
        Bishop Philip J. Furlong, a retired auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of New York and the oldest Roman Catholic bishop in the United States, died Thursday at the rectory of St. Thomas More Church in Manhattan. He was 96 years old and lived at the rectory.
        Bishop Furlong, who was ordained a priest in 1918 after graduating from St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers, was the former president of Cathedral College in Yonkers and the first principal of Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx.
        He was named a monsignor, with the title of papal chamberlain, in 1941 and was named a domestic prelate in 1945. He was ordained an auxiliary bishop of New York and auxiliary bishop to the military vicar, Francis Cardinal Spellman, in 1946.
        His eight-volume work on American history, ''The Furlong History Series,'' was used by parochial schools across the United States. He served as national Catholic chaplain of the Civil Air Patrol and as a member of the Naval Aviation Cadet Selection Board from 1942 to 1945. He also served as a chaplain, with the rank of major, for the 8th Regiment of the New York National Guard from 1943 to 1948 and was national chaplain to the Girl Scouts from 1946 to 1955. Dean of Cathedral College
        Bishop Furlong began his career as an assistant at St. Denis parish in Yonkers. He earned a doctorate in philosophy from Fordham University and in 1920 became a professor of history at Cathedral College, from which he had received his undergraduate education. He was later appointed dean and served as president from 1938 to 1941. He was appointed principal of newly built Cardinal Hayes High School in 1941 and remained there until 1945.
        He then served as secretary of education for the archdiocese and in 1946 was named pastor of St. Elizabeth parish in Manhattan. In 1950, he was named pastor of St. Thomas More, where he served until his retirement in 1969.
        After Cardinal Spellman died in 1967, Bishop Furlong served as administrator of the military vicariate until the appointment of Terence Cardinal Cooke as the new military vicar.
        Bishop Furlong was an active member of many educational and historical societies. There are no immediate survivors. A eucharistic service will be held at 8 P.M. tomorrow at St. Thomas More Church. John Cardinal O'Connor will celebrate a funeral mass at 2 P.M. Monday in St. Patrick's Cathedral.
      