
       John Paul Riddle, an early aviator and a leader in the fields of air cargo and aviation education, died after a brief illness Thursday at Cedars Medical Center in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 87 years old and lived in Coral Gables.
        John Paul Riddle, an early aviator and a leader in the fields of air cargo and aviation education, died after a brief illness Thursday at Cedars Medical Center in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 87 years old and lived in Coral Gables.
        Mr. Riddle, trained as a pilot in the Army, began his career in aviation education in 1926 at Lunken Airport in Cincinnati, when he and T. Higbee Embry, a stockyard owner, founded the Embry-Riddle Flying School.
        The school's first students were pilots for the nation's first package express business. In 1927 the school won one of the first Federal air mail contracts. The company was incorporated two years later as part of the Aviation Corporation of Delaware, later known as AVCO. That company, in turn, gave birth to American Airways, known today as American Airlines.
        Mr. Riddle, a native of Pikesville, Ky., went globe-trotting with Howard Hughes and dined with the Prince of Wales.
        The partnership with Mr. Embry dissolved, but Mr. Riddle kept the school going and in 1934 the re-formed Embry-Riddle school opened a charter seaplane service in Miami and a new flight school at Miami Municipal Airport.
        In World War II, Embry-Riddle operated three schools in Florida and one in Tennessee, training thousands of pilots from the United States and Britain. The school was moved to Daytona Beach in 1965 and renamed Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in 1970. It now has campuses in Daytona Beach and Prescott, Ariz.
        In 1943 Mr. Riddle opened a technical school of aviation for the Brazilian Air Ministry in Sao Paulo. In 1946 he began training civilians at the Riddle Inter-American Institute. That year, Riddle Airlines, an air cargo carrier, began operation in Miami. He retired in the early 1960's.
        Mr. Riddle is survived by two children, Tandy of Livingston, Mont., and John Paul Jr. of Los Angeles, and four stepchildren, Robert Pardee and James Strickland Pardee, of Aspen, Colo.; Christopher Pardee of Oxford, England, and Adele P. Cunningham of Winchester, Mass.
      