
       Henry Green Parks Jr., the founder of the Parks Sausages Company and one of the nation's most successful black entrepreneurs, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Monday at the Meridian Multi-Medical Nursing Center in Towson, Md. He was 72 years old and lived in Baltimore.
        Henry Green Parks Jr., the founder of the Parks Sausages Company and one of the nation's most successful black entrepreneurs, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Monday at the Meridian Multi-Medical Nursing Center in Towson, Md. He was 72 years old and lived in Baltimore.
        After graduating from Ohio State University, Mr. Parks was a sales representative for the Pabst Brewing Company and a co-owner of a public relations concern before founding the Parks Sausage Company in 1951.
        Starting with two helpers in a former dairy in a Baltimore ghetto, he built the company into a multimillion-dollar enterprise with about 300 employes, a modern processing plant and sales of more than $14 million a year. He sold his interest in 1977 but remained as a consultant and director of the company until his death.
        ''I had a notion of manufacturing Southern foods because they are distinctive and tasty, and also because they are made of the less expensive cuts of meat,'' he said in a 1977 interview. Developed Own Recipe
        Born in Atlanta and reared in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Parks developed his own recipe for sausage, as well as for the company's other products. Then, using his skills as a salesman, he got orders from prospective customers, made the sausage one day and sold it the next. After a shaky start, he was able to persuade a bank and an insurance company to lend him money to build a modern plant.
        He occupied his new quarters in 1964 and increased production and sales. Around this time, the radio and television commercial with a child's demanding voice calling for ''More Parks Sausages, Mom'' was created. Two years later, after complaints that the child sounded rude, a plaintive ''Please'' was added.
        Mr. Parks served on the Baltimore City Council from 1963 to 1969 and pressed for laws opening public accommodations to blacks and easing bail requirements for people accused of crimes.
        ''He was not a civil rights person in a confrontational sense,'' said Raymond V. Haysbert, now the chairman of the company. ''But he worked behind the scenes to convince powerful people of the illogic of racism.'' Went Public in 1969
        In 1969, the Parks Sausage Company went public and became one of the first black-owned businesses to obtain working capital by selling its stock to the general public.
        In 1977 the company was acquired by the Norin Corporation of Miami, which in turn was acquired by another conglomerate. In 1981, after sales plummeted, Parks Sausages was sold back to its management.
        Mr. Parks also served on many boards and commissions. He was on the board of Magnavox, W. R. Grace and the First Pennsylvania Corporation and served on the Opportunities Industrial Center Inc. and the National Interracial Council for Business Opportunity.
        He is survived by two daughters, Grace, of Baltimore, and Cheryl, of Atlanta; a sister, Vera Wilson, of Washington, D.C., and three grandchildren.
      