
       Dilson Funaro, a former Finance Minister of Brazil whose hard-line stance included suspending interest payments on most of Brazil's foreign debt, died of lymphatic cancer Wednesday. He was 55 years old.
        Dilson Funaro, a former Finance Minister of Brazil whose hard-line stance included suspending interest payments on most of Brazil's foreign debt, died of lymphatic cancer Wednesday. He was 55 years old.
        The Associated Press reported that Mr. Funaro died at Osvaldo Cruz Hospital in Sao Paolo, his native city and the country's industrial and financial center.
        In the summer of 1985, Mr. Funaro, an engineer and the head of a toy-manufacturing business, was appointed Brazil's Finance Minister by President Jose Sarney, managing a $250-billion-a-year national economy.
        Among his first decisions in office was to end what he called ''interference'' by the International Monetary Fund in the formulation of Brazil's economic policies. He then demanded easier repayment terms from foreign banks for Brazil's $108 billion debt and revamped Brazilian economic policy to emphasize growth after four years of recession. Froze Wages and Prices
        To combat Brazil's chronic problem of soaring inflation, then running at an annual rate of more than 250 percent, he devised a sweeping set of changes, the Cruzado Plan, that included a freeze on wages and prices and an end to the system of automatic price increases known as indexing.
        The measures failed to stem inflation, which rocketed by early 1987 to an annual rate of more than 600 percent as consumers went on a spending spree. Mr. Funaro's response was a new economic package that included price rises and tax increases aimed at curbing excessive demand. The reversal made him a prime target of public criticism and political attacks.
        On Feb. 20, 1987, Mr. Funaro, contending that Brazil could not grow economically while it was servicing its huge foreign debt, persuaded the Government to suspend payment of interest on $67 billion worth of commercial loans.
        The announcement sent shock waves throughout the international banking community. Creditor banks in other countries, principally the United States, suffered losses in earnings because of Brazil's nonperforming loans.
        Little more than two months later, the clamor in Brazil's business and political communities for Mr. Funaro's resignation became overwhelming. On April 26 he stepped down.
        Mr. Funaro is survived by his wife, Anna Maria, and by six children.
      