
       John T. Dorrance Jr., the chairman of the Campbell Soup Company from 1962 to 1984, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 70 years old and lived in Gladwyne, Pa.
        John T. Dorrance Jr., the chairman of the Campbell Soup Company from 1962 to 1984, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 70 years old and lived in Gladwyne, Pa.
        Mr. Dorrance, who joined Campbell in 1946, was a tall, amiable man whom many associates addressed as Jack. He was the son of Dr. John T. Dorrance, the company's first president and the inventor of canned condensed soup.
        The younger Mr. Dorrance was a native of Cinnaminson, N.J., and a graduate of the St. George's School in Newport, R. I., and Princeton University. He joined Campbell in 1946 after serving in the United States Army in China in World War II, rising from private to captain.
        Posts he held at Campbell included floor foreman at the Camden, N.J., plant, assistant treasurer and assistant to the president. He had been on Campbell's board since 1947 and became chairman of the board's executive committee in 1984.
        Mr. Dorrance had also been on the boards of J. P. Morgan and Company, the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, the Neiman-Marcus Group, and the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company.
        He was a former chairman of the board of the Philadelphia Museum of Art and had also served on the boards of the Philadelphia Maritime Museum, the PennJerDel Corporation and the World Wildlife Fund. He had been a vice president of the Coriell Institute for Medical Research in Camden, a board manager of the Wistar Institute and a trustee of Princeton, the Church Farm School in Paoli, Pa., Hampton University and the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Diana Rogers Dripps; two sons, John T. 3d, of Devils Tower, Wyo., and Bennett, of Paradise Valley, Ariz.; a daughter, Mary Alice Malone of Coatesville, Pa., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 11, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary yesterday about John T. Dorrance Jr., former chairman of the Campbell Soup Company, misstated one of his affiliations. He was chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art at his death on Sunday, not former chairman.
      