
       Herbert Mills, who sang hits like ''Tiger Rag,'' ''Paper Doll'' and ''Lazy River'' as a member of the Mills Brothers for more than six decades, died Wednesday at Valley Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 77 years old.
        Herbert Mills, who sang hits like ''Tiger Rag,'' ''Paper Doll'' and ''Lazy River'' as a member of the Mills Brothers for more than six decades, died Wednesday at Valley Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Mills was born in Piqua, Ohio, to a musical family. His parents had performed in light opera, and his father, John Mills Sr., a barber, taught him and his three brothers to sing.
        When they began performing in 1925, Herbert, Harry, Donald and John Mills Jr., ranging in age from 11 to 15, were billed as Four Boys and a Guitar, a novelty quartet whose forte was to imitate instruments with their voices.
        Before long they were regulars on WLW, a Cincinnati radio station. In the early 1930's, the Mills Brothers were well-known radio stars who sang commercials for Procter & Gamble on one of the first CBS network shows.
        Their rendition of ''Tiger Rag'' thrust them into the international limelight in the early 1930's. It was the first of 2,246 recordings.
        When John Mills died in 1936, he was replaced by their father, who sang as a Mills Brother until his death in 1957 at the age of 85.
        The quartet had one hit record after another on Brunswick Records, later bought by Decca, with whom the Mills Brothers recorded for 24 years. The hits included ''Your're Nobody's Sweetheart Now,'' ''Sweet Sue,'' ''Lazy Bones,'' ''Old Rockin' Chair,'' ''Bye-Bye, Blackbird'' and ''You Always Hurt the One You Love.'' Their biggest hit came in 1943 with ''Paper Doll.''
        With their recording of ''Glow Worm'' in the mid-50's, they shifted to working with band arrangements, mostly by the arranger-conductor Sy Oliver. Despite rapid changes in the music industry, the Mills Brothers' sound and popularity persisted into the 1980's.
        When Harry Mills died in 1982, Donald and his son, John, continued as a duo using the Mills Brothers name. In later appearances, Donald, Herbert and Harry would sing first and second tenor and baritone respectively, with a bass guitar filling in the fourth voice.
        Herbert Mills is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a daughter, Linda Mills, of Las Vegas; his brother, Donald, of Los Angeles; two grandchildren, and one great- grandchild.
      