
       Archibald McG. Foster, a leading figure in the advertising industry for almost 40 years, died of a ruptured appendix Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Layford Cay in the Bahamas.
        Archibald McG. Foster, a leading figure in the advertising industry for almost 40 years, died of a ruptured appendix Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Layford Cay in the Bahamas.
        Mr. Foster, a 1938 graduate of Harvard University, was the former chairman of Ted Bates & Company and helped build that agency into one of the largest advertising concerns in the world.
        ''He was a true leader of the advertising industry,'' said Carl Spielvogel, chairman of Backer, Spielvogel, Bates Worldwide, which was created in a merger a year and a half ago. ''He was a trend-setter and was much revered by the people who worked with him, and that includes his clients.''
        Mr. Foster began his career as promotion director for Conde Nast Publications in 1940. After serving as a Marine captain in World War II, he joined the A. W. Lewin Company as an account executive and did writing and media buying. He was a vice president when he left in 1950 to join Cecil & Presbrey Inc., where he became a vice president and member of the executive committee. Brown & Williamson Account
        In 1954 he joined Ted Bates & Company and a year later was named vice president and supervisor on the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation account. He spent the rest of his career at the agency.
        In 1965 Mr. Foster was named president and chief executive and when he stepped aside in 1969, the agency had billings of more than $360 million a year, making it the fifth largest in the world. Mr. Foster became chairman in 1971 and left five years later to form a family consulting business, ARJO Consultants.
        Mr. Foster was considered a man of principle and in 1967 he severed Ted Bates from the American Home Products account, which made up $20 million a year in billings, because the company wanted to dictate how the agency should operate. 'A Serious Business'
        He was also an advocate for the advertising industry and felt it made major contributions to the world economy.
        ''Advertising is a serious business,'' he once told a group of industry leaders. ''There should be no room for jokesters, self-servers or anybody who ever invests any of his company's money without knowing what it is he hopes to get back from it.''
        He was a longtime member of the American Association of Advertising Agencies and was its chairman in 1970-71, when the association obtained an industry accord on a code of professional conduct.
        He was a member of the National Business Council for Consumer Affairs for many years and a member of the steering committee of the National Advertising Review Board.
        He is survived by his son, Archibald Jr., of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      