
       Robert Amory Jr., Deputy Director of Central Intelligence from 1952 to 1962 and later head of the international division of the Bureau of the Budget, died of colon cancer Wednesday at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Washington.
        Robert Amory Jr., Deputy Director of Central Intelligence from 1952 to 1962 and later head of the international division of the Bureau of the Budget, died of colon cancer Wednesday at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Amory practiced law with the firm of Cahill, Gordon in New York before World War II and, after his Government service, with the Washington firm of Corcoran, Foley, Youngman & Rowe.
        He entered the Army in 1941 as a private and emerged six years later as a colonel. He commanded an amphibious regiment in the New Guinea and Philippine campaigns and was awarded the Silver Star for gallantry in action as well as the Bronze Star and the Legion of Merit.
        A native of Boston, Mr. Amory was a graduate of Milton Academy and of Harvard College, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and the Harvard Law School. He was a professor at the law school from 1946 to 1952, developing its first course in accounting.
        At the Central Intelligence Agency, Mr. Amory was a member of the National Security Council Planning Board. In 1961 he was openly critical of the Bay of Pigs operation in Cuba, which he had not been consulted about despite his status as an official of the C.I.A. and the National Security Council.
        He left the C.I.A. in 1962 and joined the budget bureau, where he remained until 1965. In 1973 he became secretary and general counsel of the National Gallery of Art, a post he held until his retirement in 1980. He was a member of the Harvard University Board of Overseers from 1963 to 1969.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Armstrong; two sons, Robert 3d, of Boston, and Daniel, of Portland, Me.; his brother, Cleveland, the author; a sister, Leonore Sawyers of Claremont, Calif., and three grandsons.
      