
       Albert Bonnier Jr., the former chairman of a family-run publishing empire that included Sweden's two largest newspapers, died Saturday at his home in Stockholm after a short illness, the Swedish News Agency reported. He was 81 years old.
        Albert Bonnier Jr., the former chairman of a family-run publishing empire that included Sweden's two largest newspapers, died Saturday at his home in Stockholm after a short illness, the Swedish News Agency reported. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Bonnier was named for his great-grandfather, who founded a major Swedish publishing house, Albert Bonnier's Forlag, in 1837.
        The younger Mr. Bonnier established AB Bonnierforetagen, a diversified international company. He was managing director and chief executive of the company from 1959 to 1981 and remained chairman until January. He took over the family holdings from his father, Tur, in the 1950's. One of his five brothers, Lukas, took Albert Bonnier's post after Mr. Bonnier stepped down.
        The company's holdings include interests in the morning daily Dagens Nyheter and the evening daily Expressen, which has the largest circulation in Scandinavia. Both papers are ''independent liberal,'' with readers spanning the country's social spectrum, said the Swedish Embassy's counselor for cultural affairs in Washington, Beate Margareta Sydhoff Millhagen. Papers Criticized Hitler in '30s
        In the early 1930's, editorials in Dagens Nyheter criticized Hitler and the Nazi Party at a time when many European papers were not so outspoken, said Jan Winter, an assistant foreign editor at the Swedish News Agency. The Bonnier family also controlled the publishing house Ahlen & Akerlund, where Mr. Bonnier was chairman until 1982. AB Bonnierforetagen publishes children's books and magazines as well as novels and science books.
        ''The Bonnier family has been very important since the 19th century,'' Mrs. Sydhoff Millhagen said. ''As a publishing house, they have always edited extremely important books. They have really been the leading editing house in Scandinavia.'' Among their authors was Strindberg.
        His survivors include his wife, Birgit; two daughters, Charlotte and Jeanette; and five brothers, Lukas, Johan, Karl-Adam, Mikael and Simon.
      