
       Leverett Edwards, a labor relations expert who for many years helped avert or settle national railway and airline strikes, died yesterday at Harris Hospital in Fort Worth after a long illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Worth and Oklahoma City.
        Leverett Edwards, a labor relations expert who for many years helped avert or settle national railway and airline strikes, died yesterday at Harris Hospital in Fort Worth after a long illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Worth and Oklahoma City.
        Mr. Edwards, an Oklahoma lawyer and Democrat, began to serve on emergency Presidential boards in the 1940's, to keep the trains running in the face of labor disputes. One of his first tasks was to mediate a strike-threatening disagreement between the Long Island Rail Road and its workers in 1946.
        In 1950, President Harry S. Truman appointed him to the three-member National Mediation Board. He served on the board for the next 20 years, including periods as chairman. Initial Focus on Railroads
        The board was created by Congress in 1934 to administer the Railway Labor Act. Its jurisdiction was extended to the budding interstate airline industry two years later. The board is responsible for maintaining the free flow of commerce in both industries by resolving disputes that could disrupt travel or imperil the nation's economy.
        A dynamic, energetic man, Mr. Edwards joined the board when the railways, then still the country's principal means of moving people and goods, were in the midst of years of labor strife over wages and working conditions.
        In August 1950, faced with widespread disruptions, President Truman went as far as ordering the Army to seize the carriers. The order prompted the unions to call off their strikes for a time. The President kept the Army out of the long negotiations that followed, leaving it to the industry to re-establish labor peace with the help of Mr. Edwards and his two colleagues.
        Beginning later in the 1950's and well into the 1960's, more of the board's time was taken up by disagreements between airlines and their personnel. Mr. Edwards mediated a number of such confrontations, especially with pilots, whose absence from the cockpits periodically grounded whole fleets of planes. Served Other Presidents
        Mr. Edwards was regularly renamed to the panel by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and finally Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967.
        After retiring from Washington in 1970, Mr. Edwards became an arbitrator for Braniff Airlines in Fort Worth and used his expertise as a respected free-lance labor-management mediator until illness curtailed his activities at the age of 84.
        A native of Cordell, Okla., Mr. Edwards received a law degree from the University of Oklahoma in 1926. He was in private practice in Oklahoma City until 1949 but had served on seven emergency boards appointed under the Railway Labor Act by the time he joined the Mediation Board.
        Mr. Edwards is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Louise Peplogle; two daughters, Jamie Murphy of Fort Worth and Katherine Trin Yarborough of Hollywood, Calif.; two brothers, Don of Tulsa and Charles of Cordell; a sister, Mary Babcock of El Reno, Okla.; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      