
       George Whitmore, an author and playwright who wrote graphically about the impact of AIDS on society, died of the disease yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        George Whitmore, an author and playwright who wrote graphically about the impact of AIDS on society, died of the disease yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In his plays and novels, Mr. Whitmore created gay literature set against the broader background of traditional American taboos and denial. In his nonfiction, Mr. Whitmore wrote about people around him who were affected by AIDS. Finally, he wrote about himself.
        Mr. Whitmore was born in Denver and attended Bennington College. He was a conscientious objector, and in lieu of military service in the Vietnam War he worked at Planned Parenthood of New York City, coordinating its national abortion referral unit.
        During the early 1970's he worked at the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a nonprofit organization advocating low-income housing.
        Mr. Whitmore wrote three plays: ''The Caseworker,'' produced by Playwrights Horizons in 1976; ''Flight/The Legacy,'' produced at the 18th Street Theater in 1979, and ''The Rights,'' produced by the Glines in 1980. His Two Novels
        In 1980, Mr. Whitmore's first novel, ''The Confessions of Danny Slocum,'' was published by St. Martin's Press. ''Nebraska,'' his second novel, was published in 1987 by Grove Press.
        ''Reaching Out to Someone With AIDS,'' an article he wrote for The New York Times Magazine, led to Mr. Whitmore's nonfiction work ''Someone Was Here: Profiles in the AIDS Epidemic,'' published by New American Library in 1988. Mr. Whitmore later wrote a cover story for the magazine about his own experience as an AIDS patient.
        Mr. Whitmore sued Northern Dispensary, a Greenwich Village dental clinic, after it refused to treat him because he had AIDS. The clinic was fined $47,000 by the city's Human Rights Commission and found itself under increasing financial pressure. Last month, officials announced that the clinic would close and, under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Diocese of New York, reopen as a nursing home for AIDS patients.
        Mr. Whitmore was a former member of the Gay Academic Union and the Gay Men's Health Crisis.
        Michael Canter, Mr. Whitmore's longtime companion, was with him when he died.
        He is survived by his mother, Irene, of Denver, and his sister, Mary Jo Hamel, of Poway, Calif.
      