
       Dr. Norman E. Zinberg, a psychoanalyst whose research into the effects of drugs on individuals and social groups influenced the direction of drug-abuse treatment, died Sunday of a heart attack at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 67 years old.
        Dr. Norman E. Zinberg, a psychoanalyst whose research into the effects of drugs on individuals and social groups influenced the direction of drug-abuse treatment, died Sunday of a heart attack at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 67 years old.
        Dr. Zinberg, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School and a psychiatrist at Cambridge Hospital, had long been recognized as a pioneer in studying the ways in which marijuana, heroin and other drugs affect human behavior. He served for many years as a consultant to government agencies dealing with drug problems and testified frequently on legislation seeking to curb illicit drugs.
        He played an important role in Congress's passage in October of a comprehensive bill aimed at reducing drug use through treatment and education. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, said yesterday that the legislation faced rough going, enacted only on the final night of the Congressional session, and that ''to a singular degree we acted on the advice of Norman Zinberg.'' 'Remarkable Impact' Cited
        Authorities in the field say Dr. Zinberg broadened the concepts under which drug addiction is treated by psychiatrists and other health-care professionals.
        ''He had a remarkable impact on our understanding that drug effects are not simply a consequence of biochemistry,'' said Dr. Howard Shaffer, a colleague at Harvard and at Cambridge Hospital. ''He showed that an individual's expectations, his psychological set and his social milieu interact to produce the effects on behavior that we observe. Equally important, Norman Zinberg helped us explain why an addictive drug affects a person differently at different times and how it affects various people in different ways.'' Named to AIDS Committee
        Dr. Zinberg, a native of Harrisburg, Pa., received his bachor's and doctoral degrees from the University of Maryland. He served in the United States Army Medical Corps for four years during and after World War II and joined the Harvard Medical School faculty in 1952. He also taught at Boston University and the Tufts School of Medicine before his appointment to an assistant professorship at Harvard in 1964.
        From 1971 to 1982 Dr. Zinberg was chairman of the advisory committee of the Vera Institute of Justice in New York, and since 1976 he had been a member of the Drug Policy Foundation, based in Washington. During the Vietnam War he was a consultant to the Defense Department, studying drug-abuse problems among troops in Southeast Asia.
        Earlier this year Dr. Zinberg was one of the first appointees to the National AIDS Commission, which will recommend ways to implement Federal policy in treating the epidemic.
        Surviving are his wife, Dr. Dorothy Shore Zinberg; his mother, Esther, of Baltimore, and two daughters, Sarah, of San Mateo, Calif., and Annie, of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.
      