
       Margot Zemach, an award-winning children's book illustrator and author whose witty, lively works reinterpreted folk tales for younger readers, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Sunday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 57 years old.
        Margot Zemach, an award-winning children's book illustrator and author whose witty, lively works reinterpreted folk tales for younger readers, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Sunday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 57 years old.
        Ms. Zemach was the illustrator or author of more than 40 children's books, including ''Duffy and the Devil,'' ''The Judge,'' ''A Penny a Look,'' ''Salt'' ''Mommy, Buy Me a China Doll,'' ''It Could Always Be Worse'' and ''To Hilda for Helping.''
        ''Margot not only revivified the American picture book, but was one of the very few who helped elevate it to an art form,'' said Maurice Sendak, the children's book author and illustrator. ''She was one of the most accomplished picture-book artists on the international scene - a superlative draftsman, a shrewd psychologist and most important, a passionate, tragicomic original.'' Won the Caldecott Medal
        ''I consider her the consummate illustrator for children's literature,'' said William Steig, the childrens' book author and illustrator, and a magazine artist for The New Yorker. ''There's no doubt her work will endure.''
        In 1974, for ''Duffy and the Devil,'' Ms. Zemach won the Caldecott Medal, the most prestigious American award for children's book illustration, sponsored by the American Library Association. She was twice selected as the American nominee for the Hans Christian Andersen Medal for illustration, the most prestigious international children's book award.
        Ms. Zemach was born Nov. 30, 1931 in Los Angeles, and studied at the Los Angeles County Art Institute. She won a Fulbright Scholarship to study drawing in Vienna in 1955. Collaborated With Her Husband
        In 1957, she and another Fulbright student, Harvey Fischtrom, were married and began a children's-book collaboration that was to last until her husband's death in 1974.
        Their first book, ''Small Boy Is Listening,'' published under the double byline of Margot and Harve Zemach appeared in 1959. She did the drawings and he wrote the text.
        At the time of her death Ms. Zemach was working on a picture book of ''Mother Goose'' nursery rhymes. Her principal publisher, Farrar, Straus & Giroux, plans to issue it in 1990.
        She is survived by her stepfather, Benjamin; a sister, Amielle; four daughters, Heidi, Rachel, Rebecca and Kaethe Zemach-Bersin, and two granddaughters.
      