
       Sally Kirkland, a chronicler of fashion for more than 30 years, died of emphysema Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Sally Kirkland, a chronicler of fashion for more than 30 years, died of emphysema Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        From 1947 to 1969 she was the fashion editor of Life magazine, making that general-interest weekly influential in international fashion. She stopped traffic in the Place de la Concorde in Paris to get a fashion picture. A cover photograph of Sybil Connally, the Irish designer, put Ireland on the fashion map.
        She received the Order of the Star of Solidarity in 1954 from the Italian Government for her reports on Italian clothes. ''I was secretly pleased,'' she told a friend, ''because the medal was green and gold and looked well on an orange evening dress I had to whip up for the affair.''
        Along with Grace Kelly and Vera Maxwell, the designer, she received a Neiman-Marcus award in 1955 for contributions to fashion.
        After graduating from Vassar College in 1934, she worked in the college shop at Lord & Taylor, then the headquarters for the best casual American clothes. In 1939 she became an assistant editor of Vogue magazine, leaving nine years later to become the fashion editor of Life.
        She was the first fashion editor to do multiple-model sittings, recalled Nancy White, the former fashion editor of Harper's Bazaar. A dozen or more models would stretch across one or two pages for a dazzling presentation that was widely copied.
        After she left Life magazine, Mrs. Kirkland wrote a book about Claire McCardell, her favorite designer, and contributed articles to the RAM Report, a monthly trade journal.
        She is survived by a daughter, Sally Kirkland, the actress, of Los Angeles, and a brother, Robert T. Phinney of Santa Fe, N.M. The funeral will be private.
      