
       Longtime patrons of the Gotham Book Mart and friends of its founder, the legendary Frances Steloff, the most independent of American independent booksellers who died on April 15 when she was 101 years old, offered homage to her memory and bravery yesterday afternoon in the vaulted Celeste Bartos Forum in the New York Public
        Longtime patrons of the Gotham Book Mart and friends of its founder, the legendary Frances Steloff, the most independent of American independent booksellers who died on April 15 when she was 101 years old, offered homage to her memory and bravery yesterday afternoon in the vaulted Celeste Bartos Forum in the New York Public Library.
        Miss Steloff founded the Gotham in 1920, turned it into an internationally known literary and theatrical haven, fought victoriously for the right to sell the works of banned authors - from James Joyce to D. H. Lawrence to Henry Miller - and became a symbol of the lasting worth of literature.
        The Gotham continues at 41 West 47th Street under the sign ''Wise Men Fish Here,'' and several speakers at the service praised Andreas Brown, the present owner, for retaining its homey and knowing atmosphere. Mr. Brown bought the Gotham in 1967, but Miss Steloff remained as an active consultant, bookseller and resident of the brownstone building. Stories and Storytellers
        Some 250 people attended the memorial tribute. They came from upstate New York, where Miss Steloff was born in Saratoga Springs on Dec. 31, 1887, and from the neighborhoods of Manhattan, each with a personal story about her presence and enthusiasm. Among those in the audience were the playwright John Guare, the New Yorker writer Joseph Mitchell, Sid Fesbach, president of the James Joyce Society, the writer Harold Brodkey and the poet Lucie Nevai.
        Garson Kanin, the playwright and director, asked the audience rhetorically: ''How many book shops do you know? No one here would identify Doubleday as a shop; it's a store. But Frances made the Gotham into a shop - the place where you could walk about freely, learn something, meet friends, buy a book or walk away without one, your life enriched for an hour. Our common ground was the hallowed ground of the Gotham Book Mart. I had a 50-year love affair with Frances.''
        Roger W. Straus, the president of Farrar, Straus & Giroux, also recalled that he had first entered the Gotham just about a half-century ago. He said that Miss Steloff sold him on the works of E. E. Cummings, Henry Miller and other authors and poets and ''opened up a lot of windows of thought.'' An Approved Practice
        ''Frances always had some book or author she wanted to press on you,'' Mr. Straus said. ''She was not above saying: 'Buy a copy of this book. The author needs the royalty.' '' He paused. ''It's a practice I approve of.'' Dr. Lola Szladits, curator of the Berg Collection at the library, spoke of Miss Steloff's generosity. To commemorate the Berg's 50th anniversary, Miss Steloff donated $25,000 to help purchase the manuscript of Saul Bellow's ''Mr. Sammler's Planet.''
        Mr. Brown recalled that when he bought the Gotham, Miss Steloff told him: ''You are not the owner. You're the caretaker, the custodian.''
        Marian Seldes, the actress and director, read selections from Marianne Moore and James Joyce.
        Dr. David Porter, president of Skidmore College, where lectures on Miss Steloff are given, called the Gotham ''an oasis in the concrete of New York.'' He read parts of a passage from Homer's ''Odyssey'' to describe Miss Steloff:
        So fair, one time, I thought a young palm tree at Delos near the altar of Apollo. . . . that slim palm tree filled my heart with wonder: never came shoot from earth so beautiful.
        He finished, amending a line slightly: ''So now, my lady, I stand in awe of you.''
        Correction:  May 29, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition
        Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about a memorial service for Frances Steloff, founder of the Gotham Book Mart, incorrectly described lectures given in her name at Skidmore College. The lectures, given annually by people in the arts, were endowed by Miss Steloff; they were not about her.
      