
       Frederick G. Fisher, a Boston lawyer who in 1954 became a target of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy at a dramatic turning point in hearings involving the Senator and the Army, died of a heart attack Thursday in Tel Aviv, Israel. Mr. Fisher, 68 years old, was at a lecture sponsored by the Israeli bar.
        Frederick G. Fisher, a Boston lawyer who in 1954 became a target of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy at a dramatic turning point in hearings involving the Senator and the Army, died of a heart attack Thursday in Tel Aviv, Israel. Mr. Fisher, 68 years old, was at a lecture sponsored by the Israeli bar.
        Mr. Fisher was a senior partner in the Boston firm of Hale & Dorr, which he joined shortly after his graduation from Harvard Law School. He had recently moved to Sagamore Beach, Mass., from West Newton, Mass.
        Senator McCarthy, a Wisconsin Republican, achieved wide publicity in the early 1950's by charging that a number of public officials, military officers and prominent private citizens had Communist affiliations. The 1954 hearings before Senator McCarthy's investigations subcommittee grew out of a dispute between the Senator and Army officials, whom Mr. McCarthy had accused of ''coddling Fifth Amendmnent Communists.''
        A special counsel for the Army at the hearings was Joseph N. Welch, a partner in Hale & Dorr, the firm in which Mr. Fisher was an associate. In a heated exchange with Mr. Welch, Senator McCarthy charged that Mr. Fisher, briefly a member of Mr. Welch's team of lawyers for the hearing, had been a member of the National Lawyers Guild ''long after it had been exposed as the legal arm of the Communist Party.'' 'Have You No Decency, Sir?'
        Mr. Welch, close to tears, retorted: ''Until this moment, Senator, I think I never really gauged your cruelty or your recklessness. Fred Fisher is starting what looks to be a brilliant career with us. I fear he shall always bear a scar, needlessly inflicted by you.''
        ''Have you no decency, sir?'' he said, as the exchange continued.
        Mr. Fisher had told the firm when he was hired that he had been a member of the lawyers guild while at Harvard ''and for a period of months after.'' The guild was not on the Attorney General's list of subversive groups, but it had been cited as a ''Communist front'' by the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
        Historians consider the McCarthy-Welch exchange a pivotal point in turning public opinion against the Senator, who was subsequently censured by his colleagues.
        Mr. Fisher went on to become a partner at the firm in 1958 and later organized its commercial law department. He also served as president of the Massachusetts Bar Association and as chairman of many committees of the American and Boston bar associations. He was a former trustee of the National Institute of Trial Advocacy and chairman of the Franklin N. Flaschner Foundation in Waban, Mass.
        He is survived by his wife, Talia; two sons, Frederick 3d, of Shropshire, England, and Hamilton, of Natick, Mass; a daughter, Genevieve, of Cambridge, Mass.; two brothers, Clark, of Haywood, Va., and Champe, of West Newton, and four grandchildren.
      