
       Steven De Groote, a South African pianist who won first prize at the 1977 Van Cliburn International Piano Competition, died Monday in Johannesburg. He was 36 years old.
        Steven De Groote, a South African pianist who won first prize at the 1977 Van Cliburn International Piano Competition, died Monday in Johannesburg. He was 36 years old.
        Mr. De Groote had been living in Fort Worth, the scene of his competition triumph and more recently his place of employment as artist in residence at Texas Christian University. He went to South Africa to visit his family this month, the university's press office said, and had been hospitalized at the Brenthurst Clinic in Johannesburg with pneumonia and influenza since arriving there. The cause of death, the university said, was inflammation of the liver.
        Mr. De Groote was born to a family of professional musicians in Cape Town, where his father, Pierre, is conductor of the Cape Town University Symphony. He received advanced training at the Royal Conservatory of Music in Brussels (his parents had emigrated from Belgium to South Africa) and at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. Among his teachers were Rudolf Serkin, Mieczylaw Horszowski and Seymour Lipkin. His Cliburn victory was preceded by one in the Young Concert Artists International Auditions competition in 1977 and by a finalist's place in the Leventritt International Competition in 1976, both in New York City. Concerts and Teaching
        After winning the Cliburn award in an unusually colorful contest, Mr. De Groote was quickly engaged by most of America's leading orchestras and performed regularly as a recitalist and chamber musician here and in Europe for some seasons. As is often the case with young competition winners, the pianist encountered some critics who felt his career was being prematurely pushed beyond his actual attainments, but all observers noted and praised his serious, sensitive musicianship.
        After the initial burst of fame, Mr. De Groote divided his time between concerts and teaching, joining the faculty of Arizona State University in 1981 and going to T.C.U. - the host of the Cliburn's preliminary rounds - in 1986.
        He was an avid amateur pilot, and while practicing landings with an instructor near Phoenix in 1985 he crashed on the Gila Indian Reservation. His aorta and a lung were punctured, and he had many other injuries. A passing policeman summoned help. After extensive surgery and recuperation, he was able to resume his performances - and his flying.
        He was scheduled to appear in coming months with the Dallas and Sacramento symphonies, the Academy of St. Martin-in-the-Fields and the Scottish Chamber Orchestra.
        Mr. De Groote is survived by his father and three brothers, all professional musicians in Brussels, London and Cape Town.
      