
       Kenneth J. Lynch, a skilled blacksmith who created many pieces of metalwork adorning New York City buildings, directed repairs on the Statue of Liberty in the late 1920's and twice restored the weather vane on Boston's Old North Church, died Thursday at his home in Wilton, Conn., after a long illness.
        Kenneth J. Lynch, a skilled blacksmith who created many pieces of metalwork adorning New York City buildings, directed repairs on the Statue of Liberty in the late 1920's and twice restored the weather vane on Boston's Old North Church, died Thursday at his home in Wilton, Conn., after a long illness. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Lynch, a native of New Haven, was known for his metalwork, which included Art Deco steel doors for the Chrysler Building, iron baptistery gates for St. Patrick's Cathedral and a bronze lamp made for Louis Comfort Tiffany.
        He was a collector of blacksmith's tools, hardware, military artifacts, arms and armor. These works and collections were sold at auction in 1985 to benefit St. Francis Xavier High School, a Jesuit-run school on West 16th Street in Manhattan that he had attended. Battle-Axes and Atlas's Rings
        Mr. Lynch's work as an armorer included making props for more than a dozen movies, the most notable being the blades for five halberds, medieval battle-axes, made for Cecil B. De Mille's ''The Crusades.'' Among Mr. Lynch's other creations are the stainless-steel eagles crowning the Chrysler Building, the bronze armillary, or astronomical rings, held aloft by Atlas at Rockefeller Center and a park bench made for Bernard M. Baruch, the financier.
        Mr. Lynch was trained as an armorer after joining the United States Army in 1922. He was sent with the Cavalry to Germany and France, where he shoed horses and worked for Edgar Brandt, the French Art Deco master metalworker.
        ''All a blacksmith needs to work is a forge and an anvil,'' he said in an interview, adding that opportunity was necessary, too.
        He is survived by two sons, Michael and Timothy, both of Wilton; two daughters, Winifred Graham of Boxboro, Mass., and Patricia Nolan of Miami; a brother, John P., of Venice, Fla.; 22 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      