
       Jazz musicians, disk jockeys, critics and fans filled St. Peter's Church on Sunday evening to pay tribute to a man and a basement. The man was Max Gordon, who died May 11 when he was 86 years old. The basement is the Village Vanguard, the club Mr. Gordon founded and ran for 54 years at 178 Seventh Avenue South in Greenwich
        Jazz musicians, disk jockeys, critics and fans filled St. Peter's Church on Sunday evening to pay tribute to a man and a basement. The man was Max Gordon, who died May 11 when he was 86 years old. The basement is the Village Vanguard, the club Mr. Gordon founded and ran for 54 years at 178 Seventh Avenue South in Greenwich Village.
        The audience was dotted with musicians, among them such Vanguard regulars as the saxophonists Illinois Jacquet, Frank Wess and George Coleman and the pianists Tommy Flanagan, Harold Mabern, Steve Kuhn, Kenny Barron and Walter Davis Jr. Mr. Gordon's friends, employees and admirers paid tribute to the diminutive club owner who could be seen most nights at a back table at the Vanguard, wearing a black hat and puffing a cigar. The saxophonist Frank Foster drew laughs of recognition when he mimicked Mr. Gordon's posture as he fell asleep during late sets in recent years.
        The club, which Mr. Gordon usually referred to as ''the joint,'' began as a Greenwich Village coffeehouse, with poetry readings, and in its early years it also presented cabaret performances and folk music. But since the 1950's, it has been known as one of the world's pre-eminent jazz clubs. Lorraine Gordon, Mr. Gordon's widow, will continue to run the Vanguard, which held a private reception after the memorial service. Favorite Tune
        The Mel Lewis Jazz Orchestra, which has been playing Monday nights at the Vanguard for 24 years (when it was founded as the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Orchestra) performed at the memorial service. Mr. Lewis, its drummer, said, ''We'll be there as long as there's a Vanguard.'' He led the group in what he described as Mr. Gordon's favorite selection, Bill Holman's arrangement of ''Just Friends.'' He also recalled Mr. Gordon's complaints about the band's lack of punctuality. ''This band has never started at 10 o'clock in its history,'' Mr. Lewis said.
        The singer Bobby Short recalled Mr. Gordon's uptown supper club, the Blue Angel, which he described as ''the bee's knees'' of the 1940's, noting that ''in 1945, the Blue Angel practiced totally a policy of nondiscrimination.'' Working for Mr. Gordon there, he said, ''wasn't like working for somebody at all.''
        ''It was like having your uncle standing around telling you how marvelous you were, and how good you would be next week or next year,'' Mr. Short said.
        The drummer Max Roach called the Vanguard ''a schoolroom for all of us,'' alluding to musicians. ''Max Gordon was a gentleman who would always open his doors even though he knew I was under 18,'' he said. A Solution
        Katie Abel, a waitress at the Vanguard since 1969, recalled a night when two men carrying loaves of French bread arrived at the top of the Vanguard's stairs and began quasi-military maneuvers with the loaves in place of rifles. She said she asked Mr. Gordon what to do, and he replied, ''Ask them if they want any butter.''
        She also said that Mr. Gordon was ''a true egalitarian'' and that he provided ''an atmosphere in which all were free to be themselves.'' ''I think it was no accident that jazz turned out to be his music,'' she said.
        The comic Irwin Corey said, ''Max will be remembered long after many of you people have forgotten you were here.''
      