
       Robert Richardson Sears, a prominent child psychologist and educator and a former dean at Stanford University, died Monday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 80 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Robert Richardson Sears, a prominent child psychologist and educator and a former dean at Stanford University, died Monday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 80 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Dr. Sears received national attention for his studies on the psychological development of children, including the effects that child-rearing practices, like the amount of discipline, had on personality and behavior.
        He also continued a long-range study of children with high I.Q.'s that was begun in 1921 by Dr. Lewis M. Termanand followed the youngsters as they grew to maturity and aged.
        Dr. Sears was head of the psychology department at Stanford from 1953 to 1961, when he was named dean of the School of Humanities and Sciences. In 1970 he was appointed the David Starr Jordan professor of psychology at Stanford, a post he held until his retirement in 1973. Degrees of Discipline
        He received his undergraduate degree from Stanford and his doctorate in psychology from Yale University in 1932. Before returning to Stanford Dr. Sears combined teaching and research at Yale, the University of Illinois, the University of Iowa and Harvard University. He was a clinical psychologist at the Institute for Juvenile Research in Chicago while at Illinois and with the Institute for Human Relations while at Yale.
        In 1942 he joined the Child Welfare Research Station at the University of Iowa and conducted studies on children in an Iowa preschool program who received varying degrees of discipline at home. Effect on Aggression
        He found that children whose parents punished them most severely for aggression were themselves the least aggressive, but they expressed the greatest amount of hidden aggression in fantasy play with dolls. Children whose parents were most permissive also showed little aggression. Children who were treated in a middle range of permissiveness were the most aggressive.
        Dr. Sears joined the faculty at Harvard in 1949 and became director of the Laboratory for Human Development and supervised another study of the effects of child-rearing practices on child personality and behavior. Population as a Factor
        In a commencement speech at Stanford in 1969, in a period of general upheaval across the country, he said the population explosion might be the major source of social frustration for the young.
        Peer-group hostility virtually disappeared in the period, he said. ''There is nothing left but hostility from youth toward age and authority.''
        Dr. Sears was a past president of the American Psychological Association, a fellow of the Society for Research in Child Development and a director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Pauline; a son, David, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Nancy Barker, of Toronto, and seven grandchildren
      