
       Jeff Duncan, a choreographer and dancer who founded Dance Theater Workshop, a leading showcase for modern dance in New York City, died of complications resulting from AIDS on Friday in Baltimore at the Don Miller House, which offers care to AIDS patients. He was 59 years old.
        Jeff Duncan, a choreographer and dancer who founded Dance Theater Workshop, a leading showcase for modern dance in New York City, died of complications resulting from AIDS on Friday in Baltimore at the Don Miller House, which offers care to AIDS patients. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Duncan initiated the workshop after serving as an assistant to Doris Humphrey and Anna Sokolow, two pioneers of American modern dance. In 1963, after producing two concerts that left him financially strapped, Mr. Duncan rented a small loft at 215 West 20th Street.
        ''I thought I'd do my creative work and invite people down to see me, as Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman used to do on 16th Street,'' he said a few years ago. ''Soon friends and colleagues gathered, asking to perform there.'' The Forming of the Workshop
        In 1965, Mr. Duncan, with Jack Moore, who died last year, and Art Bauman, a younger choreographer, organized the workshop as a sponsor of regular dance seasons that included both new and known choreographers. The workshop moved in 1975 to 219 West 19th Street.
        Thomas Jefferson Duncan Jr. was born in Longview, Tex. He was a student at North Texas State University when he saw the Martha Graham Dance Company and decided to be a dancer. He transferred to Denver University and studied dance in 1949 with Hanya Holm at Colorado Springs. ''Inside of six weeks, my body opened,'' he said of the experience. ''I was a dancer.''
        Mr. Duncan came to New York City and trained with Alwin Nikolais and Betty Jones of the Jose Limon company, where Miss Humphrey noticed him and asked him to be her assistant for the Juilliard Dance Ensemble. Themes of Solitude and Dreams
        Mr. Duncan was a leading dancer in Anna Sokolow's company in the 1950's, creating the chief male role in her ''Lyric Suite'' and becoming her assistant in 1954. His own choreography, often concerned with characterization and themes of solitude and dreams, owed something to her spirit. Among his best-known works were ''Winesburg Portraits,'' based on Sherwood Anderson's novel ''Winesburg, Ohio''; ''Antique Epigrams''; ''Resonances,'' and ''Diminishing Landscape.''
        Mr. Duncan made his choreographic debut in 1957 and formed a company in 1960. After Dance Theater Workshop's success as a showcase for 10 years, he took a teaching position in 1975 at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, where he directed a new company, Impetus.
        He danced until two years ago and continued to work with PATH, a company associated with the Theater Project, an experimental group in Baltimore. A tribute to Mr. Duncan will be held there on June 11.
        Mr. Duncan is survived by his mother, Helen, of Longview, and his sister, Alice Duncan Ross of Arlington, Tex.
      