
       Karl Brunner, an economist who was a pioneer and a leading member of the monetarist movement, died yesterday at his home in Rochester after an extended illness. He was 73 years old.
        Karl Brunner, an economist who was a pioneer and a leading member of the monetarist movement, died yesterday at his home in Rochester after an extended illness. He was 73 years old.
        At his death, Professor Brunner was the Fred H. Gowen Professor of Economics at the William E. Simon Graduate School of Business Administration at the University of Rochester. He served also as the director of the Simon School's Bradley Policy Research Center.
        Over the years, he was an energetic organizer, leader and spokesman for his fellow monetarists in Europe as well as in the United States. A monetarist is an economic analyst who holds that prices and inflation are tightly linked to the growth of a nation's supply of money.
        Professor Brunner was especially well-known in the world of economics for criticism of the Federal Reserve System, criticism he voiced as a co-founder and member of the Shadow Open Market Committee, a monetarist group. Skeptical of Money Supply
        He felt that the implementation of monetary policy by the Federal Reserve more often than not tended to destabilize rather than stabilize the economy. Specifically, he argued that the Federal Reserve failed to maintain a reasonably steady rate of growth in the nation's money supply.
        He contended that this failure stemmed largely from the Federal Reserve System's focusing excessively on its role of manipulating short-term interest rates. For its part, the system long has affirmed that its techniques are appropriate.
        H. Erich Heinemann, the chief economist at the Wall Street firm of Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company and a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee, said in a telephone interview yesterday that Professor Brunner was ''a monetarist who bridged the gap between ethics and economics, a very concerned man with very catholic interests.'' Linked to Friedman
        At the threshold of the 1970's, monetarism was widely seen as somewhat revolutionary, intellectually speaking, and in the United States it was particularly identified with the teachings of another economist, Prof. Milton Friedman of the University of Chicago.
        In Europe at that time, monetarism was especially identified with the University of Konstanz in West Germany, and with Dr. Brunner, who was dividing his time between that institution and Ohio State University.
        Monetarism, as pioneered largely by Professor Friedman and Professor Brunner, represented in effect a counter-revolution against the dominant economic thinking that developed from the work of the British economist John Maynard Keynes in the 1930's. Keynes's disciples, who call themselves Keynesians, generally feel that the most useful tools for encouraging economic stability are interest rates and government tax and spending policies. Led Watchdog Groups
        In the mid-1970's, Professor Brunner became the co-founder and co-head, with Prof. Allan H. Meltzer of Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, of two unofficial, self-appointed watchdog organizations of monetarists who monitored the economies and the economic policies of the United States and of Western European countries.
        The first was the Shadow Open Market Committee, which Professor Brunner and Professor Meltzer helped to found in 1973, becoming its co-chairmen. That committee became vociferous in propounding the view that money supply growth rates should not be tampered with too often, and it criticized what it deemed to be over-quick money expansion.
        The second, called the Shadow European Economic Policy Committee, was set up to monitor Western European nations' economic policies and policies recommended by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris and similar bodies. Studied in Zurich
        Karl Brunner was born Feb. 16, 1916, in Zurich. He studied at the University of Zurich from 1934 to 1937, then at the London School of Economics in 1937 and 1938, before returning to the University of Zurich, where he earned his doctorate in 1943.
        Over the years, he was a member of the faculties of the University of California at Los Angeles, Ohio State University and the Universities of Konstanz and Bern. He joined the University of Rochester in 1971. He became the Gowen Professor in 1979.
        Professor Brunner, who became a United States citizen, was active in the founding of two international academic publications, the Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, and also the Journal of Monetary Economics.
        He was the author or co-author of a dozen books in his field, most recently ''Monetary Economics,'' which he wrote with Professor Meltzer and which was published two weeks ago by Basil Blackwell in Oxford.
        Another work, ''Money and the Economy: Issues in Monetary Analysis,'' which he also wrote with Professor Meltzer, is to be published this summer by Cambridge University Press.
        Professor Brunner married Rosemarie Enderle in 1945. She died in 1986.
        A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M. Saturday at the University of Rochester Memorial Chapel.
      