
       Eugene J. Keogh, who as a Congressman from Brooklyn was the principal sponsor of the pension-plan legislation that bears his name, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Eugene J. Keogh, who as a Congressman from Brooklyn was the principal sponsor of the pension-plan legislation that bears his name, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Keogh served in Congress for 30 years, representing a district that extended north from Jamaica Bay through parts of Canarsie, New Lots, East New York, Cypress Hills and Bushwick. He was elected handily every two years in the heavily Democratic district.
        Under the Keogh Plan, enacted in 1962, self-employed people like doctors, lawyers, salesmen and freelance writers may, for pension purposes, invest part of their income in a fund that is exempt from Federal taxes until the money is withdrawn at retirement. The plan allowed participants to attain benefits roughly equal to those under corporate pension plans.
        Mr. Keogh was born in Brooklyn. He received a bachelor's degree from New York University and a law degree from Fordham while working as a public-school teacher and as a clerk for the city's Board of Transportation. Resumed Law Practice
        He began practicing law in 1932 and three years later served briefly in the New York Assembly. In 1936 he was elected to the first of his 15 terms in the House of Representatives, where he became a member of the influential Ways and Means Committee and was active in the effort to pass Medicare legislation.
        After his retirement at age 59, he resumed full-time practice with the law firm of Halpin, Keogh & St. John until the early 1970's. He served as counsel to the firm of Abberley, Kooiman, Marcellino & Clay until early last year.
        He was a member of the New York State Racing and Wagering Board from 1973 to 1976 and for many years was chairman of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission, which sought to erect a monument to the former President in Washington.
        Mr. Keogh also served on a number of corporate boards, including the City Title Insurance Company, the American Chemosol Corporation and Athlone Industries Inc. He was a trustee of the East New York Savings Bank.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Virginia Fogerty; a son, E. Preston Keogh of San Francisco; a daughter, Susan Clarke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      