
       Dr. John R. Heller Jr., a former director of the National Cancer Institute and former president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, died Thursday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., five days after he suffered a stroke. He was 84 years old and lived in Bethesda.
        Dr. John R. Heller Jr., a former director of the National Cancer Institute and former president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, died Thursday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., five days after he suffered a stroke. He was 84 years old and lived in Bethesda.
        Dr. Heller headed the institute for 12 years beginning in 1948, a period in which Federal financing for cancer research and treatment was greatly expanded. In 1960 he left the United States Public Health Service, with which he had been associated since 1931, to become president and chief executive officer of Sloan-Kettering. Kept Active After a Stroke
        In 1963 Dr. Heller was partly paralyzed by a stroke, but he remained active as a special consultant to the American Cancer Society and the National Cancer Institute on international cooperation in cancer research until he officially retired in 1976.
        John Roderick Heller, born in Fair Play, S.C., was a graduate of Clemson College and the Emory University Medical School. He served briefly with the Georgia Department of Health before joining the Public Health Service and eventually became the Assistant Surgeon General.
        In 1943, after several years in the service's venereal disease division, Dr. Heller was appointed its chief. In that post, he established rapid-treatment centers that with the advent of penicillin, helped to reduce the spread of syphilis and gonorrhea in the United States. Recipient of Many Awards
        Dr. Heller won the first World Peace Through World Health Award of the Eleanor Roosevelt Cancer Foundation in 1961, the Wien Award in 1958 and the Medal of the Scandinavian Cancer Union in 1969. He was president of the American Venereal Disease Association in 1948 and 1949 and was president of the Cancer Public Health Association in 1957.
        His wife, the former Susie May Ayres, died in 1985. He leaves three sons, J. Roderick Heller 3d of Chevy Chase, Md., Hanes Heller of Upper Saddle River, N.J., and Winder Heller of Bethesda; a brother, Ralph, of Clemson, S.C.; four sisters, Elizabeth Shaw of Youngstown, N.Y., Rebecca Lovelace of Nashville, Helen Wallace of Seneca, S.C., and Claire Richards of Brevard, N.C., and seven grandchildren.
      