
       Esteban de Jesus, the World Boxing Council lightweight champion from 1976 through 1978, died of AIDS yesterday at his home in San Juan, P.R. He was 37 years old.
        Esteban de Jesus, the World Boxing Council lightweight champion from 1976 through 1978, died of AIDS yesterday at his home in San Juan, P.R. He was 37 years old.
        De Jesus, who admitted using drugs during his boxing career, was diagnosed as having acquired immune deficiency syndrome early this year.
        De Jesus gained sudden prominence in 1972 with a first-round knockdown and a 10-round decision over Roberto Duran, the world lightweight champion, in a nontitle fight at Madison Square Garden. The loss to de Jesus was Duran's only defeat in the first 13 years of his career.
        In a second bout against Duran, in Panama in 1974, de Jesus' bid for the lightweight title failed as he suffered an 11th-round knockout. In 1978, as the World Boxing Council lightweight champion and with Duran the World Boxing Association titleholder, Duran won the unification bout with a 12th-round knockout in Las Vegas. A Hard-Punching Style
        De Jesus, a clever boxer and hard puncher, won his title by taking a 15-round decision from Ishimatsu Suzuki in Puerto Rico in 1976. He defended it successfully three times before meeting Duran in Las Vegas.
        In de Jesus' final fight, he suffered a loss by knockout to Saoul Mamby in a bid for the World Boxing Council superlightweight title in 1980. He ended his career with a record of 57 victories and 5 defeats with 32 knockouts.
        De Jesus began using cocaine and heroin early in his boxing career with an older brother, Enrique.
        In 1980, after having injected himself with cocaine on Thanksgiving Day, de Jesus became involved in a traffic dispute and fatally shot Roberto Cintron Gonzalez, another driver, in the head. He was sentenced to life in prison, where he turned to religion and gave sermons daily to fellow prisoners. Sentence Was Commuted
        In 1985, he learned that Enrique, with whom he had shared needles, had died of AIDS. De Jesus tested positive for the virus, and symptoms began to appear last January.
        ''I'm waiting to see what'sto be God's will,'' he said in a television interview on Feb. 12. ''I'm in God's hands.''
        His death came less than two months after Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon of Puerto Rico commuted his sentence. The Governor released him from prison on the condition that he remain in a clinic that specializes in treating AIDS patients.
        De Jesus is survived by his wife, Nelly, and three children, Lillian, Vivian and Esteban Jr.
      