
       Edward Plunket Taylor, a brewer, builder, financier and industrialist who was one of Canada's wealthiest men, died in the Bahamas on Sunday after a long illness. He was 88 years old.
        Edward Plunket Taylor, a brewer, builder, financier and industrialist who was one of Canada's wealthiest men, died in the Bahamas on Sunday after a long illness. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Taylor had been living in seclusion in Lyford Cay, the Bahamas, since suffering a stroke in 1980.
        Mr. Taylor, who was known as E. P., was also a force in the world of thoroughbred horse racing and breeding and was frequently photographed at the track in morning coat and top hat.
        In 1964 his 3-year-old colt Northern Dancer became the first Canadian-bred horse to win the Kentucky Derby. The horse later became one of the most successful stallions in the history of racing, and helped build Mr. Taylor's breeding empire, one of the most successful in the world. Criticized by Church Groups
        Mr. Taylor was often criticized for his aggressive and uncompromising business tactics. Despite his philanthropic activities and donations to the arts, he faced fire from church groups because alcohol was the cornerstone of his empire.
        Mr. Taylor graduated from McGill University in Montreal in 1922 with a degree in mechanical engineering, but he never worked as an engineer. He got his start at one of his grandfather's brewing companies and through a series of mergers and acquisitions became one of the country's biggest brewers before World War II.
        Despite the Depression, he began expanding his Brewing Corporation of Canada and over the years bought more than 30 Canadian breweries. It became Carling O'Keefe, one of Canada's three largest brewers, in 1973.
        During the war, Mr. Taylor was executive assistant to the Minister of Munitions and Supply, vice chairman of the British Supply Council in North America, which bought wartime supplies for Britain, and Canadian chairman of the joint war aid committee. 'I Like to Create Things'
        After the war, Mr. Taylor formed the Argus Corporation, a holding company that evolved into one of Canada's most powerful corporate entities with stakes in brewing, forestry, mining and chemicals. By 1972, when Mr. Taylor resigned as chairman, Argus had assets of about $209 million (about $177 million in United States currency). Companies under his control had assets of about $2.1 billion (about $1.7 billion).
        ''People don't understand that the principal motivation is not money,'' Mr. Taylor once said. ''I do something that is constructive. There are people who like to paint or garden. I like to create things.''
        Mr. Taylor married Winifred Thornton Duguid of Ottawa in 1927. They had three children, Judith, Louise and Charles. Louise died in 1979. Winifrid Taylor died in January 1982.
      