
       Former Senator Warren Magnuson of Washington, one of the country's most formidable lawmakers and politicians until the Reagan tide wrote an end to his 44 years on Capitol Hill, died yesterday. He was 84 years old and lived in Seattle.
        Former Senator Warren Magnuson of Washington, one of the country's most formidable lawmakers and politicians until the Reagan tide wrote an end to his 44 years on Capitol Hill, died yesterday. He was 84 years old and lived in Seattle.
        A family spokeswoman, Gretchen Bakimis, said Mr. Magnuson died at home of congestive heart failure. The condition arose from diabetes, she said.
        Risen from poverty, Mr. Magnuson came to the Capital as a freshman representative in 1937 - the class of Lyndon B. Johnson - and was elected to the Senate in 1944. He departed in 1980 as President Pro Tempore, third in line of succession to the President of the United States.
        He was chairman of the powerful Appropriations Committee and for many years headed the equally mighty Commerce Committee. Poker in White House
        Mr. Magnuson played poker at the White House with President Harry S. Truman and remained close to Mr. Johnson as the Texan rose to become Senate majority leader and President.
        Maggie to his constituents and colleagues, he was gregarious, informal in style, a seeker of consensus who could shepherd major bills through committee without twisting arms.
        ''Maggie doesn't have an enemy on either side of the aisle,'' noted Mike Mansfield of Montana, the majority leader in the 1960's. Indeed, Mr. Magnuson maneuvered the public-accomodations section of the civil rights laws and the communications satellite bill through Commerce without drawing the wrath of Southern foes of the former and liberals opposed to the latter. Guardian of Taxpayer Dollars
        He defied ideological pigeonholing; his liberal voting record dated from the New Deal, yet he considered himself a conservative guardian of the taxpayers' dollars.
        Portly, handsome and convivial, Mr. Magnuson was one of the capital's men-about-town, attending baseball and football games and with an evening set aside for a round of poker. His marriage to a Seattle widow in 1964 muted his style and led him to spend much of his spare time at home reading or painting.
        Senator Magnuson was the driving force behind much notable legislation, including bills on health policy and safety standards. He was a consistent friend of organized labor and fought for the country's merchant fleet.
        Mr. Magnuson championed water and public power projects, seeing to it that his state got its share and then some. Labeled Big Spender
        But his years and the tide of Reagan conservatism caught up with Mr. Magnuson.
        When he sought his seventh term in 1980, his detractors focused on his pork-barrel politics and labeled him a liberal big spender.
        While his age was rarely mentioned directly, it clearly was on the public's mind. Hard of hearing and walking with a shuffle, he avoided the rigors of the stump and refused to debate. He also refused to listen to close associates who advised him to retire while he was on top.
        The senior member of the Senate, he lost his last and toughest campaign to Washington's state Attorney General, Slade Gorton, as the Republicans carried the Senate for Mr. Reagan. Scandinavian Ancestry
        Warren Grant Magnuson, of Luthern Scandinavian ancestry, was born April 12, 1905, in Moorhead, Minn. Orphaned as an infant, he was adopted by a Swedish couple, William G. and Emma Magnuson. He attended high school in his native town but at age 17 began to work his way west, riding the freights, He roamed the Northwest as a farm hand at harvest time and then worked his way through college, enrolling at the University of Washington in 1924 and leaving with a law degree in 1929. He became a special prosecuting attorney in Seattle for King County.
        Mr. Magnuson won a seat in the state Legislature in 1932, was elected King County prosecutor in 1934 and went to Washington in January 1937 representing the First District in Seattle.
        In World War II, he served eight months as a Navy lieutenant commander in the Aleutians and the South Pacific. Following that, he took on the chairmanship of a subcommittee to investigate the shipbuilding industry.
        In 1944, Mr. Magnuson ran for the Senate seat vacated by Homer T. Bone. He won decisively and was sworn in a month early for the added edge of seniority.
        Mr. Magnuson is survived by his wife, the former Jermaine Elliott Peralta; a daughter, Juanita Garrison of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
        Funeral arrangements were pending.
      