
       Giuseppe Patane, an Italian conductor noted for his idiomatic and rhythmically vital opera performances, died yesterday in Munich, West Germany, where he held the post of principal conductor for Italian repertory at the Bavarian State Opera. He collapsed during a performance of ''Il Barbiere di Seviglia'' on Monday evening, apparently of a heart attack, and was taken to a local hospital.
        Giuseppe Patane, an Italian conductor noted for his idiomatic and rhythmically vital opera performances, died yesterday in Munich, West Germany, where he held the post of principal conductor for Italian repertory at the Bavarian State Opera. He collapsed during a performance of ''Il Barbiere di Seviglia'' on Monday evening, apparently of a heart attack, and was taken to a local hospital. He was 57 years old.
        Mr. Patane was a native of Naples and the son of Franco Patane, a well-regarded opera conductor who often performed at the New York City Opera. Giuseppe Patane made his debut in the secondary opera house of Naples, the Teatro Mercadante, in 1951, conducting ''La Traviata.'' He then worked at the San Carlo, the leading Neapolitan theater, remaining on its staff through 1956. In Demand in Italy
        He quickly found himself in demand for the Italian operatic repertory around Italy and elsewhere. He was principal conductor at Linz in Austria in 1961-62 and was on the roster of the Deutsche Oper in West Berlin from 1962 to 1968. His first appearance at La Scala in Milan came in 1969, and he also conducted at the opera houses of San Francisco, London and New York City. He was married to Rita Patane, a noted voice teacher and coach; they were separated at the time of Mr. Patane's death.
        The conductor made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1975 with ''La Gioconda,'' and during the next eight years he led 133 performances with the company. He conducted mostly Italian favorites but also ''Carmen'' and ''Lohengrin.'' Recording to Be Released
        His many recordings include complete sets of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' and ''Tosca'' along with less familiar fare such as Bellini's ''I Capuleti e i Montecchi,'' which he recorded with Beverly Sills and Dame Janet Baker. His last recording, scheduled for release by CBS Masterworks, was of Mascagni's ''Iris,'' with Ilana Tokody and Placido Domingo in the principal roles.
        He is survived by his wife; his mother, Giulia, and his brother, Vittorio, both of Milan, and two daughters, Francesca Bachi, of New York City and Milan, and Paula Patane, of New York City.
      