
       Dr. Ernst A. H. Friedheim, a pathologist, microbiologist and chemist who developed drugs that saved the lives of three million victims of sleeping sickness and other tropical parasitic diseases, died of kidney cancer Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old.
        Dr. Ernst A. H. Friedheim, a pathologist, microbiologist and chemist who developed drugs that saved the lives of three million victims of sleeping sickness and other tropical parasitic diseases, died of kidney cancer Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old.
        Dr. Friedheim developed melarsoprol, which is used to treat African sleeping sickness, and drugs to counteract mercury and lead poisoning. In recent years, as a visiting professor at Rockefeller University, he worked on drugs to combat cancer.
        Dr. Friedheim was a native of Zurich. He received several degrees; in medicine from the University of Zurich, in microbiology from the Pasteur Institute in Paris, in tropical medicine and hygiene from the University of Hamburg and in chemistry from the University of Geneva. He also studied at the Max Planck Institute in Berlin, the Institut d'Optique in Paris and at Rockefeller University. Performed Singlehandedly
        In contrast to other drug-development researchers, who usually work on teams of chemists, pharmacologists and clinicians, Dr. Friedheim ''singlehandedly performed chemical synthesis, laboratory evaluation and clinical testing,'' a statement from Rockefeller University said.
        He conducted the studies, under various governmental auspices, in Africa, Asia, South America, the Pacific islands and China. He was also an adviser to the World Health Organization.
        ''It was unusual the way he was able to take a drug from the laboratory to its application in the field,'' Dr. William Trager, a leading malaria researcher, said. ''He had a lot of drive. He went out to Africa in the old days, when it was really Africa.''
        Dr. Thomas M. Donnelly of Rockefeller University said medical researchers believed the drugs developed by Dr. Friedheim had saved as many as 3 million lives.
        Dr. Friedheim is survived by his wife, Suzanne.
      