
       Gen. Adnan Khairallah, Deputy Commander in Chief of Iraq's armed forces and Defense Minister, was killed on Friday in a helicopter crash in a sandstorm in northern Iraq, President Saddam Hussein said today. General Khairallah was 50 years old.
        Gen. Adnan Khairallah, Deputy Commander in Chief of Iraq's armed forces and Defense Minister, was killed on Friday in a helicopter crash in a sandstorm in northern Iraq, President Saddam Hussein said today. General Khairallah was 50 years old.
        General Khairallah, a cousin and brother-in-law of the Iraqi leader, was considered the second most powerful man after President Hussein in the tightly knit clan that rules Iraq.
        Since the cease-fire in the Persian Gulf war between Iraq and Iran last August, at least two other Iraqi generals have been reported killed in helicopter accidents. The deaths have set off speculation of a power struggle within the Iraqi leadership as the unifying effects of the war relax and domestic expectations rise in this ethnically and religiously diverse nation.
        General Khairallah's relationship with the President came under strain last year apparently as a result of a scandal concerning the President's son, Uday Hussein. Speculation on Coup Plot
        In November, the President publicly ordered Uday Hussein's arrest and trial for murder after he was accused of killing an officer in the presidential bodyguard in a brawl.
        Uday Hussein's mother, Sajida, took her son's side in the family dispute and appealed to her brother, General Khairallah, for help. The general then disappeared for a while at a time when reports were circulating in Baghdad of unrest in the army, an attempted coup and the arrest of several military officers. That prompted speculation that General Khairallah might have been involved in a plot against President Hussein.
        But earlier this year, the rift between the two men appeared to have been healed when Iraqi television showed a film of the President, his wife and General Khairallah on a fishing holiday together near the port of Basra. Since then, General Khairallah had been carrying out his duties as Defense Minister in a normal manner.
        General Khairallah was appointed Defense Minister in 1979, days after Mr. Hussein assumed the presidency, and held the post throughout the eight-year Iran-Iraq conflict that ended in a cease-fire in August. #2 Copters Survive Storm The President described him today as ''one of the distingushed war heros and a sparkling star in Iraq's sky.''
        Mr. Hussein said General Khairallah died instantly when the helicopter went down en route to Baghdad from the northern mountain resort of Sarsang near Mosul, which lies 280 miles northwest of Baghdad.
        He said one person aboard survived the crash, but he did not elaborate. The statement said two escorting helicopters survived ''the crazy storm.'' The site of the crash was not reported.
        The Iraqi radio said General Khairallah would be given a state funeral today in Baghdad and buried in the city of Tikrit, 115 miles north of the capital.
        President Hussein said General Khairallah was in the northern Kurdish region inspecting army positions when he joined members of the President's family who were touring the same area.
        The Government has begun a huge relocation program for the rebellious Kurdish minority, razing thousands of dwellings. The United States Senate and several Western human-rights organizations have protested an army assault on Kurdish areas last summer, accusing Iraq of using poison gas. Iraq has denied the accusations.
      