
       Dr. Barry D. Gingell, who helped AIDS patients seeking speedier testing of experimental drugs and broader access to them, died of AIDS at St. Vincent's Hospital yesterday. He was 34 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Barry D. Gingell, who helped AIDS patients seeking speedier testing of experimental drugs and broader access to them, died of AIDS at St. Vincent's Hospital yesterday. He was 34 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Gingell was for nearly two years the top medical expert for the Gay Men's Health Crisis, a New York City service and education organization seeking to combat the lethal disease. He was also an internist and a nutritionist.
        The doctor served on many advisory committees, including panels sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, the Society of Infectious Diseases, the Community Research Initiative and the AIDS Resource Center. The center operates Bailey House, a Christopher Street residence for homeless people with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 'Maddeningly Slow Pace'
        Dr. Gingell, described by associates as an outgoing, deeply committed advocate for advanced medical treatment for AIDS patients, was stricken by the disease four years ago and had been hospitalized for the last three months.
        ''Drug research is going at a maddeningly slow pace,'' he said in an interview 15 months ago. ''Right now at least 10 to 20 drugs show promising results elsewhere in the world or in the laboratory, but many potential therapies aren't being tested.''
        A week later, he said in another interview that the chief reason the Federal Government was delaying making drugs available to AIDS patients was that the National Institutes of Health had been slow to undertake trials of many promising chemicals.
        The Food and Drug Administration is not the bottleneck, he said, because it is a ''reactive'' agency that waits for the health institute or industry to submit data to it for review. However, he assailed the F.D.A.'s refusal to authorize tests of some drugs.
        Dr. Gingell and other leaders of AIDS advocacy groups repeatedly assailed restrictions put on trimetrexate, an experimental drug approved for treating pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, the leading cause of death in AIDS patients. 'Narrowly Defined'
        F.D.A. officials replied that the very limited data available indicated that trimetrexate worked in patients who suffered adverse reactions to standard treatments but not in those who simply were not helped by the standard therapies.
        That position was denounced by Dr. Gingell last July as ''a sham.'' ''They've so narrowly defined the population of people that can get trimetrexate that it's ridiculous,'' he said. ''We're talking about a life-threatening illness for which there is no treatment. They've got to relax their standard of efficacy.''
        Barry David Gingell was a native of Johnson City, N.Y., who won a Bachelor of Science degree at Syracuse University and a medical degree at New York University. He extended his internship at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine and then practiced medicine in the Bronx and the Lower East Side of Manhattan. A Nutritional Program
        He studied computer science at Columbia University and founded a computerized nutritional advisory program, Optimal Nutrition Engineering, which he operated for five years in Greenwich Village.
        In July 1987, he became medical information director of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, where he founded Treatment Issues, a newsletter about AIDS therapy. He also spoke to many groups about the disease.
        He is survived by his parents, Harry and Betty Gingell of Johnson City, and two sisters, Betsy Lake of Reston, Va., and Sherry Cione of Johnson City.
      