
       Donald Hiss, a retired Washington lawyer and Government official, died of lung cancer Thursday at his home in St. Michaels, Md. He was 82 years old.
        Donald Hiss, a retired Washington lawyer and Government official, died of lung cancer Thursday at his home in St. Michaels, Md. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Hiss, a specialist in international trade and tariff laws, was with the firm of Covington & Burling from 1945 until his retirement in 1976. He was a brother of Alger Hiss and, like Alger, faced accusations from Federal investigators in the late 1940's that he had been a Communist spy. But unlike Alger, he was never charged.
        A native of Baltimore, he was a graduate of Johns Hopkins University and the Harvard Law School. In 1932 he served as law secretary to Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes of the Supreme Court. The next year, at the outset of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, he joined the legal staff of the Labor Department.
        Later he worked for the Interior Department before joining the State Department's Office of Philippine Affairs. In World War II he was an assistant to Dean Acheson, then the Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs. He Aided German Jews
        Mr. Hiss worked in particular on denying economic assistance to the Axis nations by negotiating with nations not involved in the war. He was also active on behalf of beleaguered Jews in Nazi Germany. At the war's end he went with Mr. Acheson to Covington & Burling, which Mr. Acheson left later to become Secretary of State.
        Mr. Hiss was the younger brother of Alger, an aide in the State Department who was convicted of lying to Congress in denying allegations by Whitaker Chambers that he had been part of a Communist spy ring that sought to infiltrate the Government in the 1930's.
        Donald Hiss, who was named by Federal investigators as a member of the same apparatus, denied any Communist Party membership or associations for himself and testified in behalf of his brother. No charges were brought against the younger Mr. Hiss.
        In addition to his brother, who lives in New York, he is survived by his wife, the former Catherine G. Jones; a son, Bosley, of St. Michaels; two daughters, Cynthia Grace of Milton, Mass., and Joanna Hoople of Andover, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      