
       A. P. Fontaine, a business executive who was an early aircraft designer, died of a heart attack Monday at the home of his son in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 83 years old and until recently had lived in Birmingham, Mich.
        A. P. Fontaine, a business executive who was an early aircraft designer, died of a heart attack Monday at the home of his son in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 83 years old and until recently had lived in Birmingham, Mich.
        Mr. Fontaine, who earned an aeronautical engineering degree from New York University in 1930, was chairman and chief executive of the Bendix Corporation from 1965 to 1972. He headed the company's experimental aircraft division in 1944 but left in 1946 when it abandoned plans to build airplanes. He went on to establish an aviation research center at the University of Michigan.
        In 1950 he joined the Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corporation (Convair), where he was instrumental in the production of a two-engine transport. He returned to Bendix in 1952, became director of engineering and rose to chairman and chief executive officer in 1965. He led the company in acquiring the Fram Corporation and American Forest Products and in reaching a goal of $1 billion in annual sales. He retired in 1972. Bendix was acquired by the Allied Corporation in 1983.
        Before joining Bendix Mr. Fontaine, who was known as Jack, worked for the Aeronautical Corporation of America, the Budd Company, Fairchild Aviation and Republic Aircraft.
        Athanas Paul Fontaine was born in Ludlow, Mass. and graduated from a technical high school in Springfield, Mass.
        After studies at Antioch College, he enrolled at New York University, one of the few colleges in the country that then offered a degree in aeronautical engineering. After graduation he was part of a two-person team that designed and built the first lightweight passenger airplane in the United States, the C-1, for the Aeronca division of the Aeronautical Corporation. He was also responsible, in the mid-1940's, for the development of the B-36 bomber.
        His wife, Arline, died last year. He is survived by three sons, Edward, of Ridgewood, N.J.; Thomas, of West Hartford, Conn., and John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Anne Marie Hughes, of Richmond; a brother, Joseph, of Ware, Mass.; 14 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      