
       Max Gordon, who for 54 years operated the Village Vanguard, one of the most influential clubs in jazz history, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 86 years old.
        Max Gordon, who for 54 years operated the Village Vanguard, one of the most influential clubs in jazz history, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 86 years old.
        The Vanguard in Greenwich Village and the Blue Angel, a club Mr. Gordon opened in midtown in 1942, played an important part in American cultural life. Mr. Gordon, an impresario with a nearly infallible instinct for spotting talent, eagerly sought new artists for his clubs. Judy Holliday, Betty Comden and Adolph Green were teen-age discoveries of his.
        Other artists to whom he gave help early in their careers included Barbra Streisand, Pearl Bailey, Woody Allen, Dick Gregory, Lenny Bruce, Irwin Corey, Woody Guthrie and Leadbelly. A list of the important jazz figures who played at the Vanguard embraces a major portion of jazz history from the 1940's to the 80's, from John Coltrane, Thelonius Monk and Sidney Bechet to Dinah Washington, Albert Ayler, Miles Davis and the Modern Jazz Quartet and on to Wynton Marsalis and Henry Threadgill. More Than a Boss
        Much of the success of the Vanguard, from its early incarnations as a place for poetry readings, comedy or folk music to its role as an important showcase for jazz, had to do with Mr. Gordon's personality. A man of great warmth and enthusiasm, he supported talent any way he could, from lending people money to booking unknowns he had faith in. Highly opionated, he could also be crusty when he encountered dishonesty.
        Among jazz musicans, Mr. Gordon's reputation for fairness, in an industry noted for bad relations between artists and clubs, was uniformly good. And in his regular and early hiring of both black and white musicians, he played an important role in the fight against bias. In addition, Mr. Gordon loved what he did, and he deeply loved music.
        ''We began there as teen-agers, working Sundays for $5 a night,'' Miss Comden said yesterday. ''Max was terrific. He encouraged us so. He wanted young people. He was so excited and loved what we were doing, though we didn't know why.''
        ''He made an enormous difference in our lives, obviously'' said Mr. Green, who performed with Miss Comden and Judy Holliday at the Vanguard as an act called the Revuers. ''His impact on show business, it was just immense. He never lost the enthusiasm for the place. He was just as enthusiastic now as he was then. We saw him recently. We really loved him.'' At Home at His Work
        The Vanguard, which Mr. Gordon's wife, Lorraine, called his living room, is a reflection of its owner's sensibilities. A small, triangular affair in a basement at 178 Seventh Avenue South, it remains much as it was at its start in 1935. Mr. Gordon felt it didn't need to be changed. The club's kitchen was a favorite meeting place for musicians, who came there to relax, swap news and tell stories until dawn.
        Mr. Gordon, who was at the club virtually every night, loved nothing more than to sit in his corner chair, take in as much of the scene as he wanted, then take his place at a table in the audience. The room, accordingly, was intimate, a place where musicians and audiences mingled at ease, where the staff, which venerated him, was permanent. Longtime patrons learned the best-sounding spots in the room - on the couch by the drums or in the back on the way to the kitchen. A series of classic records by John Coltrane, Sonny Rollins, Joe Henderson and others were made at the Vanguard to take advantage of the club's acoustics and ambiance. Lithuania to Law School
        Max Gordon was born in Svir, Lithuania, and immigrated with his family to the United States at age 5. The family moved to Portland, Ore., where his father, a peddler, sold goods to hunters. As a boy, Mr. Gordon sold newpapers with the artist Mark Rothko.
        After graduating from Reed College in 1924, he entered Columbia Law School but changed his mind and left after six weeks. He spent six years at various jobs before a friend persuaded him to borrow enough money to open a coffeehouse in Greenwich Village. He opened the short-lived Village Fair in 1932. Two years later he opened the first Village Vanguard, on Greenwich Avenue. A year later he moved to the Vanguard's present location on Seventh Avenue.
        ''There are things you like and others you don't,'' he once told an interviewer. ''Generally speaking, the music here is not bad.'' Asked why he had stayed in business so long, he replied: ''It's my life. It's what I do.''
        ''He loved jazz; he was a beautiful man,'' said the vibraphonist Milt Jackson, who has played at the Vanguard as part of the Modern Jazz Quartet and on his own. ''Because of that, it was intimate. He treated musicians honestly and was always there to hear us play. And he was always fair. We'll miss him. He had marvelous taste. He was warm and kind.''
        Mr. Gordon is survived by his wife, two daughters, Rebecca and Deborah, and a sister, Sadye Milich.
      