
       Arnold P. Collery, an authority on international economics and former dean of Columbia College, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 62 years old.
        Arnold P. Collery, an authority on international economics and former dean of Columbia College, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 62 years old.
        Dr. Collery was dean from 1977 to 1982 and led efforts to admit women to the college and to build an undergraduate residence hall. After a year's sabbatical, he returned to Columbia University and in 1985 became chairman of the economics department, a position he held at his death.
        ''Arnold Collery was a man of extraordinary intelligence and integrity,'' said Jonathan Cole, vice president for arts and sciences and the provost-elect of the university. ''Perhaps more than any other individual, he was responsible for the historic transformation of the college into a coeducational institution. He served with grace and never with reluctance. His dedication to young people and to expanding their horizons was a model for us all. We will miss him greatly.'' Taught at Amherst for 24 Years
        Before coming to Columbia, Dr. Collery had taught economics at Amherst College for 24 years. After receiving his Ph.D. from Princeton University, he joined the Amherst faculty in 1953 and later served as chairman of the economics department. In 1974, he took a one-year leave to serve on the President's Council on Wage and Price Stability. He returned to Amherst and became acting dean of the faculty.
        He wrote several widely used texts and many articles on economic issues.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; a son, Peter, of Pelham, N.Y.; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Washington; five sisters, Veronica Kilpatrick of Port Jefferson, L.I., Joan Bell of Fairview, Pa., Rosemary Schumann of Hauppage, L.I., Carol Shuttleworth of Glen Cove, L.I., and Elizabeth Gorney of Oyster Bay, L.I.; two brothers, James, of Bethel Park, Pa., and Paul, of Oyster Bay, L.I., and one grandchild.
        A memorial service will be held at 4 p.m. May 25 at St. Paul's Chapel at Columbia University.
      