
       Howard (Buddy) Jacobson, a leading trainer of thoroughbred race horses who was convicted in 1980 of killing a rival for the affections of a Manhattan model, died of bone cancer early yesterday at the Erie County Medical Center in Buffalo. He was 58 years old and had been sent to the medical center on April 19 from the New York State prison at
        Howard (Buddy) Jacobson, a leading trainer of thoroughbred race horses who was convicted in 1980 of killing a rival for the affections of a Manhattan model, died of bone cancer early yesterday at the Erie County Medical Center in Buffalo. He was 58 years old and had been sent to the medical center on April 19 from the New York State prison at Attica.
        A spokesman for the State Department of Correctional Services, James Flateau, said Mr. Jacobson, who had been in state prisons since 1980, had been in the maximum-security Attica Correctional Facility since 1984. Was Serving 25-Year Term
        Mr. Jacobson was serving 25 years to life for murdering a restaurateur, John Tupper, a neighbor in the Manhattan East Side apartment house where Mr. Jacobson had lived for several years with the model, 23-year-old Melanie Cain.
        Miss Cain left Mr. Jacobson and moved into Mr. Tupper's apartment. Two weeks later Mr. Tupper's body was found by firefighters in a wooden crate that had been set afire in a Bronx lot on Aug. 6, 1978. The victim had been shot four times, stabbed and bludgeoned before the body was dumped.
        Mr. Jacobson and a man accused as his accomplice, Salvatore Prainito, were arrested shortly after the body was found as the two rode in Mr. Jacobson's white Cadillac two miles south of the lot. Found Guilty of Murder
        After a sensational 11-week trial that ended in April 1980, Mr. Prainito was acquitted and Mr. Jacobson was found guilty of second-degree murder. While awaiting sentencing, he escaped from the Brooklyn House of Detention through a ruse and fled to California.
        He was seized nearly six weeks later after a transcontinental manhunt and was sentenced to one to seven years of additional time for his escape. He maintained that he was not guilty of the killing, and his lawyers were seeking a new trial at the time.
        Mr. Jacobson, who was born in Brooklyn and dropped out of high school in his early teens, had a lofty career in horse training, though he admitted to being less interested in improving the breed than in increasing his bank account.
        ''I don't even like horses,'' he once said. ''If they put on kangaroo racing, I'd claim some kangaroos.''
        But after reaching the heights in racing, he was suspended in Maryland for selling a horse in violation of state rules and then barred, in effect, in New York State for five years when the New York Racing Association denied him stall space for his horses.
        He had come to thoroughbred racing naturally. His mother's three brothers - Hirsch, Eugene and Sidney Jacobs - were trainers. After quitting school, he became a ''hot walker,'' a stablehand who walks horses after exercise runs. By his 21st birthday, he was a licensed trainer. Scornful but Successful
        He annoyed the racing establishment by referring to the sport of kings as ''a business, not a sport.'' But his horses won more races than any other trainers for three consecutive years in the 1960's, and he was New York State's leading trainer for five years.
        Racing stewards in Maryland suspended him for 45 days in 1969 for selling a horse he had claimed in New York before a required 60-day waiting period. Although the New York rules required a wait of only 30 days, which Mr. Jacobson had observed, the New York stewards honored the Maryland suspension.
        When his suspension was up, he found himself unable to obtain stall space in New York. He sued the racing association in 1974 but lost after a jury trial. A year later the association relented and gave him stall space.
        ''Ever since I began to speak out on behalf of the little people in racing,'' he said at the time, ''I have been exposed to increasing attacks from wealthy and powerful men who rule the racing establishment.'' Career in Real Estate
        During the years he was out of racing in New York, he ran a ski lodge in Vermont. And after he and his wife divorced in 1968, he had gone into real estate, buying Manhattan apartment houses. One purchase was the seven-story building on East 84th Street where he lived with Miss Cain.
        Mr. Tupper rented the duplex apartment across the hall from Mr. Jacobson in 1978, and in July of that year, Miss Cain moved in with him.
        The model, who was a star prosecution witness in the trial, is now 33 years old and has a daughter. She was quoted earlier this year as saying that she still believed Mr. Jacobson was guilty of the murder, though he denied it during his entire imprisonment.
        There was no immediate information on survivors.
      