
       Karl R. Bendetsen, who led a varied career as a lawyer, forest products company executive and high-ranking Federal official, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 81 years old. Mr. Bendetsen was the retired chief executive of the Champion International Corporation and a former Under Secretary of the Army.
        Karl R. Bendetsen, who led a varied career as a lawyer, forest products company executive and high-ranking Federal official, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 81 years old. Mr. Bendetsen was the retired chief executive of the Champion International Corporation and a former Under Secretary of the Army. He was an Army colonel in World War II and directed the evacuation of 110,000 people of Japanese origin from areas on the West Coast. He also served as special assistant to the Secretary of State and more recently was chairman of President Ronald Reagan's panel for a space-based missile defense program, the Strategic Defense Initiative.
        Mr. Bendetsen, a graduate of Stanford University Law School, was a lawyer with lumber and mining interests in Oregon, Washington and California before joining the office of the Judge Advocate General in 1940.
        In 1942 he joined the general staff of the War Department and was assigned to direct the evacuation of people of Japanese origin from West Coast locations that were considered sensitive. He also helped organize the Provost Marshal's Office, the Army Military Police, the School of Military Government and later, as an assistant chief of staff, took part in planning the Normandy invasion in 1944.
        He returned to private law practice in 1946 but two years later returned to public service. In 1950 he became Assistant Secretary of the Army and was later named Under Secretary.
        Mr. Bendetsen joined Champion Papers Inc. in 1952, and later served as president and chief executive. When Champion Papers and the U.S. Plywood Corporation merged in 1967, he was elected chairman and a year later became chairman, president and chief executive. He retired in 1973.
        He leaves his wife, Gladys; a son, Brookes, of San Mateo, Calif.; a daughter, Anna Martha, of Dallas, and one grandson.
      