
       Michael Alan Woods, Administrator of the Agency for International Development, died of cancer yesterday at the Capitol Hill Hospital in Washington. He was 43 years old and lived in Washington.
        Michael Alan Woods, Administrator of the Agency for International Development, died of cancer yesterday at the Capitol Hill Hospital in Washington. He was 43 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Woods, who tried to tie foreign aid programs to economic changes in recipient nations, had served from 1985 to 1987 as Deputy United States Trade Representative. In November 1987 he was nominated by President Reagan and confirmed by the Senate as Administrator of the aid agency. He was one of the few sub-Cabinet officials to be retained by the Bush Administration.
        In recent months, Mr. Woods devoted much of his time to encouraging a Congressional effort to overhaul the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Speaking at the Heritage Foundation in Washington on May 12, he said: ''We need to concentrate our scarce foreign aid resources on sustainable development, not just the giving of aid. Government-to-Government aid should be a transitor bridge to private flows and self-sustained growth.'' Founded Consulting Company
        Before serving as Deputy Trade Representative, Mr. Woods owned and managed International Services Corporation, a private management consulting and marketing company. Before founding that organization, he was vice president for technology at Sears World Trade.
        From 1977 to 1983, he was president of DGAS International, a Washington-based consulting company.
        In the Ford Administration, Mr. Woods served as an Assistant Secretary of Defense and spokesman for the department. In 1977 President Ford appointed him to the National Advisory Council on the Education of Disadvantaged Children by President Ford.
        In the Nixon Administration, Mr. Woods was deputy director of the Office of Presidential Personnel. He was press aide to Richard M. Nixon in the 1968 Presidential campaign. Before that, he was chief of staff for Gov. Christopher S. Bond of Missouri, now the state's junior Senator.
        Mr. Woods was born in Mexico, Mo., and was graduated from American University in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Cameron Derby; two daughters, Alexandra and Caroline Woods of Washington, D.C.; and his parents, Donald and Darlene Woods of Mexico, Mo.
      