
       Jose Lopez Rega, the power behind the scenes in the last years of the Peron Government, died of a heart attack on Friday in a Buenos Aires prison hospital. He was 72 years old.
        Jose Lopez Rega, the power behind the scenes in the last years of the Peron Government, died of a heart attack on Friday in a Buenos Aires prison hospital. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Lopez Rega was extradited from the United States in 1986 after living in hiding for a decade. He had been acquitted of siphoning off millions of social welfare dollars, but still faced charges of leading rightist death squads.
        Mr. Lopez Rega, a retired police corporal and practicing astrologer, was a bodyguard of Juan D. Peron in the 1950's. In 1965, he insinuated himself into the Madrid household of the exiled dictator, becoming his private secretary. When General Peron regained power in 1973, he appointed his new aide Minister of Social Welfare. On the death of General Peron a year later, Gen. Peron's widow, Isabel, who was Vice President, succeeded to the presidency and Mr. Lopez Rega became her secretary.
        By championing Mrs. Peron's claim to be the sole inheritor of the general's mantle, and then establishing himself as virtually the only conduit to the President, Mr. Lopez Rega forced opposition politicians, military figures and labor leaders to come to terms with him. He placed his aides in vital posts and became the only minister living in the presidential mansion. Relatives in High Posts
        His son-in-law, Raul Lastiri, was president of the Chamber of Deputies and secretary general of the Peronist movement, and his daughter, Norma Lopez Rega de Lastiri, was the editor of Las Bases, the official organ of Peronism.
        Mr. Lopez Rega called the Social Welfare Ministry the ''people's ministry'' and sought to identify it with Peronism's traditional generous treatment of the poor.
        In late 1974, he gave a further demonstration of his dominance by handling virtually alone the return of the body of Eva Peron, the general's second wife, from Madrid. Evita, as she is called by the faithful, ranks next to the general in Peronist lore. But even the powerful Peronist labor leaders were excluded from the airport reception for her body, which was managed by Mr. Lopez Rega.
        He was born to Spanish immigrants on Oct. 17, 1916. He tried and failed at a singing career and became a policeman. When Isabel Peron was ousted in a military coup in 1976, Mr. Lopez Rega fled Argentina and went into hiding. In 1986, he was arrested in the United States and extradited to Argentina.
      