
       Timothy Cardinal Manning, who brought social conscience and theological conservatism to the more than 2.5 million Roman Catholics he served for 15 years as Archbishop of Los Angeles, died of cancer today. He was 79 years old.
        Timothy Cardinal Manning, who brought social conscience and theological conservatism to the more than 2.5 million Roman Catholics he served for 15 years as Archbishop of Los Angeles, died of cancer today. He was 79 years old.
        Cardinal Manning died at the Norris Cancer Hospital of the University of Southern California, the archdiocese announced.
        Ordained a priest in 1934, he was elevated to the rank of cardinal in 1973 and retired in 1985 as archbishop. Since then, he has lived at Holy Family Parish in South Pasadena.
        Cardinal Manning took over the archbishop's chair in 1970 from James Francis Cardinal McIntyre, who was 83 when he retired.
        Cardinal McIntyre's final years were filled with rancor. Hispanic and black Catholics protested weekly, saying they were being alienated from their own church. Young priests and nuns often found themselves at odds with the hierarchy. '' Soothing Anger
        And the Roman Catholic population of the archdiocese - which then included Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura and Santa Barbara counties - stood at 1.5 million in 1970 and was growing by 1,000 members a week.
        As Los Angeles archbishop, Cardinal Manning worked quickly to soothe angered feelings and reconcile the church with disenfranchised groups.
        He moved his residence to St. Vibiana's Cathedral at Main and Second Streets in the city's Skid Row section, staying there until his retirement.
        ''The most pressing problem, the first responsibility I could see, was toward the priest of the diocese,'' he said in an interview 18 months after he succeeded Cardinal McIntyre. ''The whole well-being of the community depends on the priests, on their unity and on their holiness. My first reaction was to make it known that I was here to listen.''
        The new Archbishop quickly established ministries for blacks and Hispanics and began a Priests' Senate to give the clergy greater say in the business of the archdiocese. An Inter-Parochial Council extended the participation to the parish level. Strong Stand on Abortion
        While the Cardinal was a liberal on social issues - counseling young men during the Vietnam War on their right to become conscientous objectors, and calling in 1983 for a halt to the deportation of Salvadoran refugees, on theological questions he was conservative. He declared abortion was murder and said shortly after he was made Archbishop that any Catholic who cooperates in an abortion was excommunicated from the church.
        ''Even the mother herself is not immune from this severe censure,'' he said. He also remained firm on several other points of church law, such as birth control, that American Catholics have generally disregarded.
        In general, the Cardinal concentrated on affairs within Los Angeles, with the result that the archdiocese, despite its size, did not play wield commensurate influence in the church at large.
        Cardinal Manning's route to the command of the Los Angeles Archdiocese became clear to many in 1967 when he was appointed Bishop of Fresno. He sided with Central Valley farm workers organizing a labor union, and formed a bishop's committee that helped bring peace between grape producers and pickers. Call to America
        He returned to Los Angeles as coadjutor archbishop in 1969 and replaced Cardinal McIntyre the next year.
        It was the cap to an extraordinary rise for the native of Ballingeary in County Cork, Ireland. Mr. Manning answered a call for priests in America by coming in 1928 to St. Patrick's Seminary in Menlo Park, Calif.
        After ordination in 1934, he went to Rome for postgraduate studies at the Gregorian Institute and received the degree of Doctor of Canon Law in 1938, when he returned to Los Angeles and was appointed secretary to Archbishop John J. Cantwell.
        He was named an auxiliary bishop in 1946 and consecrated a full bishop the same year. Two years later he was made chancellor of the Los Angeles Archdiocese; in 1955 he was made vicar general and in 1967 was appointed bishop of Fresno.
        In 1973, Pope Paul VI elevated him to the College of Cardinals. Cardinal Manning served a total of six popes since his ordination.
      