
       David H. McAlpin 3d, a philanthropist and investment banker, died Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 92 years old.
        David H. McAlpin 3d, a philanthropist and investment banker, died Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 92 years old.
        Mr. McAlpin, whose passions were photography and conservation, endowed the first chair of photography at Princeton University, where his contributions enabled the museum's photography center to be built. The center is named after him.
        His own photography collection began in the 1930's, when he acquired several photographs by Ansel Adams. Mr. McAlpin's collection has been exhibited by the Museum of Modern Art, where he was a longtime trustee and treasurer. In 1940, a committee he headed organized the museum's photography department.
        Mr. McAlpin was a founder of the Conservation Foundation, based in Washington. He received the Gold Medal of the New York Zoological Society, of which he was a trustee, for his work in conservation. He founded the Stonybrook-Millstone Watershed Association, a preservation organization. Served in Both World Wars
        Mr. McAlpin was born in Mount Pleasant, N.Y., and graduated from Princeton and Harvard Law School. He was a former assistant United States Attorney. He served in both World Wars and had the rank of Navy commander.
        Mr. McAlpin became an investment banker and was a general partner in Clark, Dodge & Company. He was a former trustee of the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation, established by his aunt.
        Mr. McAlpin was a former director of the National Orchestral Association and the New York Philharmonic Society and a former treasurer of the Metropolitan Opera Club. He was a former trustee of Princeton.
        For 18 years, Mr. McAlpin served as vice chairman of the board of the Union Theological Seminary. He was an elder of the Nassau Presbyterian Church in Princeton and a member of the Century Association.
        Surviving are his wife, Sarah; two daughters, Lorna Hauslohner of Philadelphia and Mead McAlpin Brownell of Cumberland Center, Maine; a son, David Jr.; two stepsons, Gustav L. Stewart of Fitchburg, Mass., and John C. Stewart of Minerva, N.Y., 13 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      