
       Joseph A. Bevilacqua, whose long friendships with people tied to organized crime tarnished and eventually ended his career as Rhode Island's foremost legislator and Chief Justice, died at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston today. He was 70 years old.
        Joseph A. Bevilacqua, whose long friendships with people tied to organized crime tarnished and eventually ended his career as Rhode Island's foremost legislator and Chief Justice, died at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston today. He was 70 years old.
        He had been hospitalized in Providence several times in the last few months, most recently in early May for a heart attack. He was taken to Brigham and Women's on May 30. Rose Through the House
        Mr. Bevilacqua was elected to the Rhode Island House in 1954 and maintained a successful criminal law practice while he rose to become majority leader in 1966 and Speaker in 1969.
        Questions about his links to criminals came into the open in 1976, when the General Assembly elected him Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court.
        Among them were allegations that Mr. Bevilacqua had harbored a fugitive from a 1963 department store robbery and accepted $2,000 of the loot from him. The fugitive, Robert Northrop, later recanted his story.
        Julius Michaelson, then the State Attorney General, investigated the matter in 1977 but concluded that there was ''no prosecutable case.''
        About the same time, a letter became public in which Mr. Bevilacqua told the State Parole Board in 1973 that Raymond L. S. Patriarca, the New England organized-crime boss who died in 1984, was ''a person of integrity and, in my opinion, good moral character.'' Visits to Criminals
        The State Commission on Judicial Tenure and Discipline took no action after it investigated the letter and Mr. Bevilacqua's officiating at the the wedding of Mr. Patriarca's chauffeur six months after becoming Chief Justice. At the time the chauffeur, Joseph A. Badway, was under indictment for fraud.
        The series of events that finally brought Mr. Bevilacqua down began at the end of 1984, with an article in The Providence Journal stating that reporters and state police officers had observed Mr. Bevilacqua repeatedly visiting the homes of underworld figures.
        The state police alleged that Mr. Bevilacqua had also visited a Smithfield motel, owned by men linked to gambling and drugs, for trysts with his secretary and another woman.
        The judicial commission undertook a new investigation, hiring Arthur J. Goldberg, the former United States Supreme Court Justice, as special counsel. That inquiry led to the censure of Mr. Bevilacqua for associating with criminals. In 1985 he agreed to take an unpaid four-month leave of absence.
        When the General Assembly convened the next year, it started impeachment proceedings. Two weeks after the House Judiciary Committee began public hearings, Mr. Bevilacqua resigned.
        He is survived by his wife, Josephine; a daughter, Angelica Gosz, and two sons, State Senator John J. Bevilacqua and Joseph A. Bevilacqua Jr.
      