
       Dr. Joseph Stokes 3d, a leader in preventive medicine and cardiovascular diseases, died of cancer Monday at University Hospital in Boston. He was 64 years old and lived in Arlington, Mass.
        Dr. Joseph Stokes 3d, a leader in preventive medicine and cardiovascular diseases, died of cancer Monday at University Hospital in Boston. He was 64 years old and lived in Arlington, Mass.
        Dr. Stokes was one of the principal researchers in the long-running epidemiological study of coronary heart diseases and its causes conducted in Framingham, Mass. Since 1948 the study, one of the most comprehensive in medical history, has examined the habits and life styles of 5,209 adults from 30 to 62 years of age.
        The study showed that heart disease was not the inevitable consequence of aging but was due largely to how people live and that smoking, lack of exercise, high blood pressure, high cholestrol level in the blood and stress were among the major contributors to heart disease. 'An Outstanding Physician'
        Dr. Stokes joined the Framingham study three years after it began and examined about 4,000 sons and daughters of the original participants to determine the roles of heredity and environment in heart disease. The study found that environment was more important than heredity in determining the risk of heart disease.
        ''Dr. Stokes was an outstanding physician, scientist, educator and editor, said Dr. Aram V. Chobanian, dean of Boston University School of Medicine, where Dr. Stokes had been a professor of medicine and public health since 1981. ''His death represents a major loss for the medical community.''
        Born in Philadelphia, Dr. Stokes attended Haverford College and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Medical School in 1949. After several years on the staff at Massachusetts General Hospital and being affiliated with the Public Health Service, he joined the faculty of Harvard Medical School as a research associate.
        From 1954 to 1961 he directed the family health program at Massachusetts General Hospital, and joined the Hawaii State Department of Health in 1961 as a heart disease control officer. While there he conducted a study of heart disease among men of Hawaiian and Japanese descent. In 1964 he was named the first dean of the University of California at San Diego. A Teacher and an Editor
        In addition to his faculty appointment at Boston University Medical School in 1981, Dr. Stokes was an named an adjunct professor at Sargent College of Allied Health Professions; a research associate at the Center for Educational Development in Health at Boston University; a member of the preventive medicine unit at the Evans Department of Clinical Research at University Hospital and a lecturer at Harvard Medical School.
        He was editor of the American Journal of Preventive Medicine and a former associate editor of the New England Journal of Medicine.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Whitson; a daughter, Margaret Holt, of Arlington, Mass.; three sons, Peter, of Newbury, Mass., J. Barclay, of Volcano, Hawaii, and Joseph, of Hoboken, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
      