
       Judy Johnson, who never received a chance to play in the major leagues but became the sixth black player elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame from the Negro leagues, died at his home in Wilmington, Del., on Wednesday. He was 89 years old and suffered a stroke last year.
        Judy Johnson, who never received a chance to play in the major leagues but became the sixth black player elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame from the Negro leagues, died at his home in Wilmington, Del., on Wednesday. He was 89 years old and suffered a stroke last year.
        As a third baseman, Johnson was often compared with Pie Traynor of the Pittsburgh Pirates, also a Hall of Famer. Johnson hit over .300 seven times in the Negro leagues, with a career high of .416 in 1929, in the days when black players were not permitted to play in the major leagues.
        Connie Mack, for 50 years the owner-manager of the Philadelphia Athletics, once said, ''If Judy were only white, he could name his own price.'' Elected in 1975
        As a member of the Committee on Negro Baseball Leagues, whose responsibility it was to select Negro league stars for inclusion into the Hall of Fame, Johnson withdrew from the voting in 1975, the year he was elected to the Hall in Cooperstown, N.Y.
        Only Satchel Paige, Buck Leonard, Monte Irvin, James (Cool Papa) Bell and Josh Gibson from the Negro leagues preceded him.
        ''I felt so good, I could have cried,'' Johnson said of his election. and before his induction. ''I've been to the Hall of Fame before, but this time it will be different.''
        Born William Julius Johnson on Oct. 26, 1899, he was known by his first name until he played on a team with a veteran player named Judy Gans, whose middle name was also Julius. Because Johnson resembled Gans, teammates began calling him Judy, too, and the name stayed.
        Johnson got his first break at the age of 18, playing for the Bacharach Giants of Atlantic City for $5 a game. He also played for the Hilldales, a team in Darby, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia, and later was player-manager of the Homestead Grays in Pittsburgh. He ended his playing career with the Pittsburgh Crawfords in 1937. Line-Drive Hitter
        Johnson was a 5-foot-11-inch 150-pound line-drive hitter who batted right-handed. He often played all year long, barnstorming in the United States or playing in Cuba during the off season, as many black players did until 1947, when the color barrier was broken in the major leagues.
        ''You have to take life in stride,'' Johnson said of his being barred from the majors. ''Sometimes your heart may ache, but you can't let it get you down. There's always a better day coming.'' After retiring, Johnson worked for the Contintental Can Company and ran a general store with his brother before getting his first major league job in 1954, as a coach and a scout with the Athletics. Two years later, Johnson became a scout for the Milwaukee Braves. He is credited with the discovery and signing of Billy Bruton, who became the Braves' center fielder. Bruton married Johnson's daughter, Loretta.
        Johnson is also credited with discovering Dick Allen, the former Phillies slugger, while scouting for that Philadelphia team in 1960.
        Johnson, whose wife died in 1986, is survived by his daughter and a niece, Sandra Johnson.
      