
       Arnold L. Fein, a retired associate justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court and a former leader in the reform movement of the Democratic Party in Manhattan, died of cardiopulmonary arrest and complications of pneumonia Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in
        Arnold L. Fein, a retired associate justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court and a former leader in the reform movement of the Democratic Party in Manhattan, died of cardiopulmonary arrest and complications of pneumonia Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Justice Fein, a 1933 graduate of New York University Law School, had served in the courts of New York City and New York State for more than 20 years. Before going on the bench, he was chairman of the Reform Committee for Democratic Voters.
        ''Of all the judges of the Appellate Division, Arnold Fein was by common consensus one of the most distinguished,'' said Presiding Justice Francis T. Murphy of the Appellate Division. ''He was distinguished both as a legal scholar and as a human being.''
        Justice Fein was appointed to the Civil Court by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1965 to fill an unexpired term. He later was elected in his own right. In 1968, he was elected to a 14-year term as a State Supreme Court justice, but in 1977 Gov. Hugh L. Carey appointed him to the Appellate Division. When he took mandatory retirement in 1986, Justice Fein joined the law firm of Stroock, Stroock & Lavan as of counsel. War Crimes Prosecutor
        Justice Fein, who was born in Boston, attended Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn and graduated from New York University in 1931. He was admitted to the New York bar in 1934 and was in private practice before entering the Army in 1942. He rose to major and was chief prosecutor at the war crimes trials of the Japanese ''thought police'' in Manila and Tokyo.
        After he left military service, he served as special counsel to a Senate investigative committee, headed by Senator Estes Kefauver, Democrat of Tennessee, that looked into organized crime in interstate commerce.
        He returned to New York City in 1952, served as counsel to City Council President Rudolph Halley and worked in the Presidential campaign of Adlai E. Stevenson. He later served as chairman of the New York Reform Committee for Democratic Voters.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Jane A. Parsons, whom he married in 1983; two children from his first marriage, Jack Roach of Queretaro, Mexico, and Mardee St. Clair of Jensen Beach, Fla.; three stepchildren, Brooks Parsons of Manhattan, Nathaniel Tuck Parsons of Los Angeles and Nicholas Todd Parsons of San Francisco, and two brothers, Ernest, of Manhattan, and Bertram Charles of Columbus, Ohio.
      