
       Henri Sauguet, a French composer who in the 1920's helped return French music to its natural state of graceful aphorism and wit, died on Thursday at his home in Paris. He was 88 years old.
        Henri Sauguet, a French composer who in the 1920's helped return French music to its natural state of graceful aphorism and wit, died on Thursday at his home in Paris. He was 88 years old.
        His son, Raphael Luzel, said Mr. Sauguet had been in poor health for two years with heart problems and partial paralysis.
        Though not blessed with the distinctive originality of composers like Darius Milhaud or Erik Satie, Mr. Sauguet had the dignity and elegance -and the ability to express himself simply but with reserve - that made him an important member of the French school of that time.
        Mr. Sauguet took Igor Stravinsky and Satie as his models. He operated close to the famous group of composers called Les Six but actually belonged to his own set known as l'Ecole d'Arcueil, named after the Parisian suburb where Satie lived. The group included Henri Cliquet-Playel, Maxime Jacob and Roger Desormiere. Wrote for the Theater
        Mr. Sauguet's life seemed to proceed as smoothly as his music. He was in particular a man of the theater - with music for 14 ballets, 8 theater productions and 35 film scores. These were in addition to the songs and purely instrumental pieces.
        Mr. Sauguet confined his operatic writing to the comic genre later in life, but his most substantial work in this area was ''La Chartreuse de Parme,'' finished in 1936. Perhaps his best known ballet score was for ''Les Forains,'' written for the Roland Petit company in 1945.
        Mr. Sauguet was born in Bordeaux as Henri Poupard. His music career began there as an organist. Milhaud, with whom he exchanged letters, urged him to move to Paris, where he came in contact with important figures like Jean Cocteau, Charles Koechlin and Satie. His first success came in 1924 with the opera bouffe ''Le Plumet du Colonel.'' In his last years he often wrote music for children.
        He is survived by his son.
      