
       Emil Verban, a second baseman noted primarily for his fielding with four National League teams from 1944 to 1950, died last Thursday in Quincy, Ill., after suffering a stroke. He was 73 years old.
        Emil Verban, a second baseman noted primarily for his fielding with four National League teams from 1944 to 1950, died last Thursday in Quincy, Ill., after suffering a stroke. He was 73 years old.
        In 1975, a group of Chicago Cub fans in Washington, D.C. formed the Emil Verban Memorial Society. He was picked as the epitome of a Cub player, competent but obscure and typifying the work ethic. At first, Mr. Verban thought he was being ridiculed. But his ill feeling disappeared years several later when he was flown to Washington to meet President Reagan, a society member, at the White House.
        Mr. Verban did not reach the major leagues until the age of 28, when he joined the St. Louis Cardinals in 1944. He distinguished himself in the World Series that year against the St. Louis Browns, batting .412 and driving in the deciding run in the sixth game as the Cardinals won, 4 games to 2.
        All the games were played in Sportsman's Park. Mr. Verban learned after the third game, the first home game for the Browns when the American League team was leading, 2 games to 1, that his wife, Annetta, had been seated behind a post. He complained to Don Barnes, the owner of the Browns, who responded, ''The way you're playing, you ought to be sitting behind a post.''
        Incensed, Mr. Verban rapped five hits in the next three games as the Cardinals clinched the Series.
        Besides the Cardinals and Cubs, Mr. Verban also played for the Philadelphia Phillies, and Boston Braves before ending his career with a .272 batting average and three appearances in the All-Star Game.
        He was buried on Monday in Lincoln, Ill., where he was born and made his home. Bruce Ladd Jr., the founder of the Verban Society, said at the funeral that the society would continue.
      