
       Ray McAnally, a veteran character actor on stage, in films and on television, died Thursday at his cottage in County Wicklow, Ireland. He was 63 years old.
        Ray McAnally, a veteran character actor on stage, in films and on television, died Thursday at his cottage in County Wicklow, Ireland. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. McAnally collapsed at his home shortly after voting in Thursday's general election. The police gave no cause of death. Irish newspapers said he had undergone a heart bypass operation several years ago.
        The actor had just returned from Canada, where he had been working with Robert De Niro and Sean Penn in a remake of the Humphrey Bogart film ''We're No Angels.''
        Mr. McAnally was widely recognized as an actor who could adapt himself to remarkably disparate roles. He played a cultured papal envoy, Cardinal Altimirano, in ''The Mission,'' a 1986 film about Christian missionaries in 18th-century South America. Portrayed George Bernard Shaw
        Another of his elegant interpretations was that of George Bernard Shaw. Last year he brought the playwright vividly to life on the London stage, playing opposite Sir John Gielgud in ''The Best of Friends.''
        But Mr. McAnally was equally adept at portraying raffishness. American audiences saw him last season on public television as the dissolute but lovable Rick Pym in the ''Masterpiece Theater'' serialization of John le Carre's espionage thriller ''A Perfect Spy.''
        Mr. McAnally also played the role of a blue-collar Yorkshireman, Harry Perkins, who becomes Prime Minister in ''A Very British Coup,'' another British series that was seen on public television last season.
        He also played the hard-edged Protestant work boss in the movie ''Cal,'' which dealt with the conflict in Northern Ireland. Many Shakespearean Parats
        Born in County Donegal, Ireland, Mr. McAnally made his stage debut at the age of 18, acted in numerous Shakespearean parts and ultimately played more than 150 roles at the Abbey Theater in Dublin from 1947 to 1963. He also acted with the Royal Shakespeare Company in London.
        Entering movies in 1938, he played supporting roles in ''Billy Budd'' and ''Shake Hands With the Devil,'' but only with ''The Mission'' did he begin to make his name internationally.
        Mr. McAnally was separated from his wife, the actress Ronnie Masterson. His sons, Conor and Aoghus, and his daughters, Maire and Niamh, were with him when he died, the police said.
      