
       Dr. Arturo Morales Carrion, a Puerto Rican educator who was a high State Department official in the Kennedy Administration, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in San Juan, a spokesman for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico said yesterday in Washington. He was 75 years old.
        Dr. Arturo Morales Carrion, a Puerto Rican educator who was a high State Department official in the Kennedy Administration, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in San Juan, a spokesman for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico said yesterday in Washington. He was 75 years old.
        Dr. Morales Carrion, who was known as a historian of the Caribbean area, was President John F. Kennedy's Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs from 1961 to the end of 1963. He was the first Puerto Rican to be appointed to such a high position in the State Department.
        He went on to become a special assistant to the Secretary General of the Organization of American States and the president of the University of Puerto Rico.
        The Governor of Puerto Rico, Rafael Hernandez Colon, said in a statement issued yesterday by the Washington spokesman: ''This is a great loss for Puerto Rico. Arturo Morales Carrion is one of the principal figures in our history. He was a dedicated public servant, distinguishing himself in his work in Puerto Rico's Department of State and later in the State Department of the United States.'' He Cited Communist Threat
        Dr. Morales Carrion was a member of the Kennedy Administration's Latin American study group that turned in a report early in 1961 saying that a key problem was ''to divorce the inevitable and necessary Latin American social transformation from connection with, and prevent its capture by, overseas Communist power politics.''
        At the Inter-American Economic and Social Council conference later that year in Punta del Este, Uruguay, he helped bring about a strongly favorable vote for a resolution that, as the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote later, placed the principles of the Alliance for Progress ''in a firm context of representative democracy and political freedom.''
        Dr. Morales Carrion was born in Havana Nov. 16, 1913. He earned a B.A. degree from the University of Puerto Rico in 1935, an M.A. from the University of Texas in 1936 and a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1950.
        Before joining the Kennedy Administration he was the Under Secretary of Puerto Rico's State Department, in charge of external affairs.
        The posts he held at the University of Puerto Rico before becoming president included chairman of the history department.
        Among his books were ''Puerto Rico: a Political and Cultural History,'' which he wrote in English, and ''History of the People of Puerto Rico,'' which, like most of his books, he wrote in Spanish.
        Dr. Morales Carrion is survived by his widow, the former Ines Arandes Rexach, whom he married in 1948; two sons, Arturo and Edgardo, and a daughter, Ines.
      