
       Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, a surgeon who in the early 1950's invented a plastic valve used to replace defective valves of the heart, died of heart, lung and kidney disease yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 72 years old and lived in Washington.
        Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, a surgeon who in the early 1950's invented a plastic valve used to replace defective valves of the heart, died of heart, lung and kidney disease yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 72 years old and lived in Washington.
        In September 1952 Dr. Hufnagel, then director of the Georgetown University Medical Center's surgical research laboratory, implanted an artificial valve into the heart of a 30-year-old woman. The valve consisted of a pea-size ball of plastic inside a chambered tube an inch and a half long and an inch thick that replaced a faulty valve in the aorta, the pipeline through which the heart pumps blood into the body's circulatory system.
        The purpose of the aortic valve is to prevent blood from flowing backward into the heart. In the artificial valve the free-moving plastic ''pea'' in the tube was dislodged by the pulsing blood with each heartbeat, then fell back to close the tube between pulses.
        The first patient to receive the plastic implant had rheumatic fever, which had severely damaged her aortic valve to the point where she was given little chance to live for long. Shortly after the implant, she was able to resume a normal life. Several hundred other patients subsequently received artificial heart valves. Principle Still Serves
        Dr. Hufnagel later made significant contributions to the development of the modern heart-lung machine. The principle of the early artificial aortic valve still serves as a model for heart implants.
        Dr. Rodman Starke, senior vice president of the American Heart Association in charge of scientific affairs, said yesterday that Dr. Hufnagel held an important place in the development of prostheses for the heart, particularly, before the heart-lung machine was perfected, for the use of a surgical technique that does not require suturing.
        Dr. Hufnagel was born in Louisville, Ky., the son of a physician and surgeon, and was reared in Richmond, Ind. A graduate of the University of Notre Dame, he received his medical degree from Harvard. While at the Harvard Medical School, he began work on heart and organ transplants and explored the use of plastic to replace blood vessels, developing a technique called multi-point fixation, which would have great importance in the placement of the artificial aortic valve.
        In 1950, Dr. Hufnagel joined the Georgetown faculty as director of the surgical research laboratory and professor of surgery. He became chairman of the department of surgery in 1969 and held the post until 1979. Evaluated Nixon's Condition
        In 1974, Dr. Hufnagel served as chairman of a three-member medical panel that evaluated the condition of President Richard M. Nixon, who had undergone pelvic surgery for a chronic phlebitis condition. The evaluation was ordered by Federal Judge John J. Sirica, who was then presiding at the trial of Nixon aides accused of covering up the Watergate break-in, when lawyers for Mr. Nixon asserted that he was too weakened physically to testify.
        The panel determined that Mr. Nixon was too ill to testify, even in a limited way, for at least six weeks. But the doctors made a point of protecting the confidentiality of the former President's medical records and refused to cite a reason for recommending against his testifying. Mr. Nixon never testified.
        Reflecting his international reputation in heart surgery, Dr. Hugfnagel was a member of more than 75 surgical and academic societies in the Untied States, Europe and South America. He was the author of more than 400 articles in medical and other scientific journals.
        Among the awards and honors he received were the American Heart Association's distinguised service award in 1969; the Modern Medicine Award, also for distinguished service, in 1961; the James F. Mitchell International Award for heart and vascular research in 1970, and the John H. Gibbon Medal in 1975.
        Dr. Hufnagel was active throughout his career in the education of physicians. At his death, in addition to holding emeritus status on the Georgetown faculty, he was a professor of surgery at the Uniformed Services University in Bethesda, Md., and clinical professor of surgery at George Washington University Hospital.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Moulton; two daughters, Katherine Miller of Summit, N.J., and Judith Carrigan of Tiffin, Ohio; a brother, Louis, of Noblesville, Ind., and three grandchildren.
      