
       Hy Gardner, a longtime Broadway columnist for The New York Herald Tribune and celebrity interviewer for radio and television, died of pneumonia Saturday night at North Shore Hospital in Miami. He was 80 years old and lived in Miami.
        Hy Gardner, a longtime Broadway columnist for The New York Herald Tribune and celebrity interviewer for radio and television, died of pneumonia Saturday night at North Shore Hospital in Miami. He was 80 years old and lived in Miami.
        Mr. Gardner's columns about the Broadway stars, chatty and revealing, made him something of a celebrity himself. In 1963, Mickey Spillane cast him to play a reporter in a murder mystery movie, ''The Girl Hunters.''
        ''Hy was perfect,'' Mr. Spillane said yesterday. ''He just played himself.'' Part of TV Celebrity Panel
        Mr. Gardner was also part of the original celebrity panel of the television program ''To Tell the Truth,'' appearing with Ralph Bellamy, Polly Bergen and Kitty Carlisle.
        He was born in Manhattan, attended George Washington High School and served in the Office of Special Services during World War II. From an early age, he wanted to be an entertainment columnist, and he contributed items to the columnists Walter Winchell, Mark Hellinger and Damon Runyon.
        After he was rebuffed through personnel channels at The Herald Tribune when he sought a job, he began to write a sample column daily, had it professionally printed and sent it to the paper's executives at their homes. At the bottom of the column he wrote: ''Excerpts from a column that should be running daily in The New York Herald Tribune.''
        His persistence paid off. He was hired by The Tribune in 1951 and wrote the Broadway column until the paper folded in 1966.
        Mr. Gardner's style was an art form that, if not lost, is seldom practiced any more. He began a 1954 column like this:
        ''Sipping a daiquiri at La Floridita in Havana, I met one of my favorite persons, Ernest Hemingway. Hemingway has a way of quaffing these famous Floridita daiquiries which reminds me of the old gag Olsen and Johnson used for 'Helzapoppin' . . . .''
        While still at The Tribune, Mr. Gardner began a television talk show called ''Hy Gardner Calling,'' in which he interviewed celebrities in their homes or in the studio. 'Drove the Cameramen Crazy'
        ''He was an innovator,'' Mr. Spillane said yesterday. ''He did the split screen before Edward R. Murrow.''
        Another of Mr. Gardner's innovations, he said, was using rocking chairs in the studio. ''He wanted to put his guests at ease, but it drove the cameramen crazy,'' Mr. Spillane said.
        Since 1967, Mr. Gardner had been writing a syndicated gossip column, ''Glad You Asked That,'' with his wife, Marilyn.
        He is also survived by two sons, Ralph, of Palmyra, Va., and Jeffrey, of Miami, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      