
       Charles Mohr, a prize-winning correspondent who covered the wars in Vietnam and the Middle East as well as political and military affairs for The New York Times for 25 years, died of heart failure at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., Friday night on his 60th birthday.
        Charles Mohr, a prize-winning correspondent who covered the wars in Vietnam and the Middle East as well as political and military affairs for The New York Times for 25 years, died of heart failure at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., Friday night on his 60th birthday.
        Mr. Mohr, who had a long history of heart problems complicated by diabetes, had suffered a heart attack at his home in Chevy Chase, Md., earlier Friday evening, his family said.
        From the jungles of Vietnam and desert battlefields of the Middle East to the halls of power in Washington, Mr. Mohr was regarded by colleagues and knowledgeable readers alike as a consummate correspondent - a bold, tenacious and objective reporter who could write with speed, accuracy and incisiveness.
        In a career that spanned nearly four decades, he was a newspaper reporter in Nebraska, an editor and reporter for United Press in Chicago, a correspondent for Time magazine for nine years and a globe-trotting foreign and Washington correspondent for The Times. #3 Continents, 3 Presidencies His assignments included India, Africa and Asia, numerous campaigns for the Presidency and the White House in the Administrations of Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter. In recent years, based in Washington, he covered military affairs and military policy, including procurement scandals and the talks on limitation of strategic arms.
        ''Charley Mohr was one of the most highly professional reporters I ever met,'' former President Jimmy Carter said yesterday. ''When he wrote an article, you knew it was the truth - even if it was a critical one.''
        Mr. Mohr was one of eight reporters and editors who won the 1986 Pulitzer Prize for explanatory journalism for The Times for a series of articles on the Reagan Administration's plans for a space-based missile defense system known as ''Star Wars.'' He was co-author of ''The New York Times Complete Guide to the Star Wars Debate,'' published last year.
        But it was as a Vietnam War correspondent for Time magazine in 1962 and 1963 and for The Times from 1964 to 1970, that Mr. Mohr was best known. He not only took readers into jungle outposts for graphic and moving accounts of life with embattled troops, but also analyzed the strategic conduct of the war with sweep and clarity. Challenging Official Falsehoods
        He was one of a handful of correspondents including Neil Sheehan, David Halberstam, Peter Arnett, Malcolm Browne, Seymour M. Hersh, R. W. Apple Jr., Homer Bigart and Eugene L. Roberts Jr. whose reporting challenged false official accounts and presaged the failure of American and South Vietnamese policies in the war.
        Presidents Johnson and Richard M. Nixon accused these reporters of courting and even encouraging defeat, but eventually it became clear that much of the official information in Vietnam was misrepresented and that it was the reporters who were providing the facts.
        Mr. Mohr, in a celebrated episode, resigned from Time in the fall of 1963 after it erefused to publish his reports and it joined those who were criticizing the correspondents. He joined The Times in 1964 and returned to Vietnam, from which he continued to report until 1970.
        He was the first correspondent wounded in the war - by shrapnel in the leg in 1965 - and one of three awarded the Bronze Star for trying to rescue a mortally wounded marine under heavy fire in the Tet offensive of 1968. His reporting took him often into the fighting: to besieged outposts, into burning villages and fields raked with machine-gun fire.
        From Saigon, his reports appraised the policies underlying the war: misguided attempts at secret bombing, strategic and planning failures, the use of napalm on civilians, flawed efforts to ''pacify'' the Vietnamese people, and corruption in South Vietnam's leadership.
        ''He was one of the great war correspondents of that generation,'' Mr. Halberstam, a correspondent in Vietnam for The Times from 1962 to 1967, recalled. ''
        Mr. Arnett, who was in Vietnam for The Associated Press from 1962 to 1971 and won the Pulitzer Prize for international reporting in 1966, said: ''Charley Mohr was one of a half-dozen outstanding correspondents of the war whose reporting really made a difference.''
        Charles Henry Mohr was born on June 16, 1929, in Loup City, Neb., where he grew up. He graduated from the University of Nebraska in 1951 and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He was a reporter for The Lincoln (Neb.) Star in 1950 and 1951.
        After three years with United Press in Chicago, he joined Time magazine in 1954. His assignments for Time included San Francisco, the White House, New Delhi, Hong Kong and Saigon.
        As a correspondent for The New York Times, Mr. Mohr covered the Presidential campaigns of Barry Goldwater in 1964 and Jimmy Carter in 1976, reported from Africa for five years in the 1970's and covered a series of wars, including the 1973 and 1967 wars in the Middle East.
        He was an avid hunter and sometimes wrote articles for The Times about hunting, fishing and other outdoor topics.
        Mr. Mohr is survived by his wife, Norma, a senior editor of the Voice of America, whom he married in 1951; three children, Dr. Gretchen Kalonji of Arlington, Mass., Ned Mohr, of Madison, Wis., and Julie Piwonski of Arlington, Va.; a stepson, Hank Lanum, of Clifton Park, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      