
       Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. She was 52 years old and lived in Ann Arbor.
        Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. She was 52 years old and lived in Ann Arbor.
        The authorities said they believed her fall from the eighth floor of the 212-foot tower was a suicide.
        Mrs. Power, an activist for women's rights and world peace, had been a member of the University of Michigan Board of Regents since 1974.
        Her husband, Philip, is chairman of the Surburban Communications Corporation in Livonia, Mich., the publisher of 50 newspapers in the Detroit and Cincinnati areas. His family gave $3.9 million to build the Power Center for the Performing Arts on the Ann Arbor campus.
        The university's president, Harold T. Shapiro, said yesterday that Mrs. Power's death was ''a great loss for the university, for the state and for those committed to more progressive social policy.'' Michigan's Governor, James J. Blanchard, called her a ''brilliant and vibrant caring person committed to women's rights and equality.''
        From 1966 to 1969, Mrs. Power was executive director of the New York City Commission for the United Nations and Consular Corps in the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay. She also was executive assistant on Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's personal staff from 1959 to 1963.
        She was born in Detroit and was graduated from Vassar College. She also received a diploma in French at the Alliance Francaise in Paris and a master's degree in politics and international relations from New York University in 1965.
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Power is survived by a son, Nathan E., at home; her mother, Katharine R. Goddard, of Ann Arbor; a sister, Margery G. Whiteman, of Albany, and two brothers, Russel H. Goddard, of New Haven, and Wendell H. Goddard, of Berkeley, Calif.
        Correction:  March 28, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
      