
       Senator Edward Zorinsky, a former Republican who switched parties in 1976 to be elected to the Senate, died late tonight after suffering a heart attack at the annual Omaha Press Club ball. He was 58 years old.
        Senator Edward Zorinsky, a former Republican who switched parties in 1976 to be elected to the Senate, died late tonight after suffering a heart attack at the annual Omaha Press Club ball. He was 58 years old.
        Senator Zorinsky, who was re-elected in 1982, died at Methodist Hospital at 11:26 P.M., the hospital said. He was stricken about 10:30 P.M. after singing a blues number at the party.
        The Senator had been receiving treatment for heart disease since 1982 and was hospitalized in 1985 after suffering chest pains. Former Mayor of Omaha
        Mr. Zorinsky, a former tobacco and candy wholesaler, was elected Mayor of Omaha as a Republican in 1973 and switched to the Democratic Party in 1976 to run for the Senate. He changed parties after complaining that Republican Party leaders passed him over in favor of an Omaha Congressman.
        In the Senate, he established himself as a maverick, often supporting Republican initiatives. He received favorable ratings from conservative groups and unfavorable ratings from liberal organizations.
        He reported being approached by President Reagan and other Republican leaders to switch back to the Republican Party in 1982, but he never did.
        Senator Zorinsky served on the Senate Agriculture Committee, and became involved in Latin American issues. While he opposed most foreign aid, he supported economic help for countries in this hemisphere.
        Yet he frequently voted with liberal Democrats against Reagan Administration policies in Central America. As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee's Western Hemisphere Subcommittee he fought to provide aid to Nicaragua. He Studied at Harvard
        The Senator helped revise the rules governing the insanity defense for Federal crimes establishing a mandatory civil commitment procedure for persons found not guilty be reason of insanity.
        Edward Zorinsky was born Nov. 11, 1928, in Omaha. He was graduated from the University of Nebraska in 1949 and did graduate work at Harvard University.
        Before becoming Mayor, he was a member of the Omaha Public Power District board and the State Judicial Qualifications Commission.
        Senator Zorinsky is survived by his wife, Cece.
      