
       Domingo Iturbe Abasolo, exiled military leader of the Basque terrorist organization E.T.A., died in an automobile accident in Algeria on Friday, Spanish and Algerian officials said today. He was 43 years old.
        Domingo Iturbe Abasolo, exiled military leader of the Basque terrorist organization E.T.A., died in an automobile accident in Algeria on Friday, Spanish and Algerian officials said today. He was 43 years old.
        Mr. Iturbe, known by his nom de guerre, ''Txomin,'' had been in charge of the military command of E.T.A. since 1975, according to the Spanish Government. The most enduring terrorist group in Europe, E.T.A. has taken the lives of nearly 600 people in its 18-year campaign for Basque independence.
        Mr. Iturbe had gone into hiding in France in 1968 and ran the organization from there, the Spaniards say. Last April he was arrested by French authorities and deported to Gabon, which later sent him to Algeria.
        Details of the accident were sketchy here, but the Algerian press agency said that the car was being driven by an Algerian and that Mr. Iturbe was accompanied by two other suspected E.T.A. leaders, Inaki Aracama Mendia and Maria Belen Gonzalez Penalba. The driver died, while the two other Basques, said by Spanish authorities to be former leaders of E.T.A.'s Madrid Command, were slightly injured, the Algerians and Spanish said. The two had been living in exile outside Spain.
        In the Basque country, E.T.A. sympathizers, relying on information about the accident from Mr. Iturbe's family, accepted the official version of the accident and scheduled a funeral for Saturday or Sunday in Mondragon, Mr. Iturbe's hometown. Spanish Interior Ministry officials said they expected a large outpouring and were prepared for violence at the funeral. 'A Stupid Road Accident'
        ''It's hard to believe that a citizen of such quality and with that background should die in a stupid road accident, but that is what happened,'' said Inaki Esnaola, leader of Herri Batasuna, a radical Basque political party believed to be the political arm of E.T.A.
        Herri Batasuna is making the funeral arrangements and arranging for the transportation of Mr. Iturbe's body.
        Bombings and assassinations attributed to E.T.A. - the initials stand for Basque Homeland and Freedom in the Basque language - claimed the lives of 42 people last year. So far this year, three people have died as a result of actions attributed to E.T.A.
        Shortly before his arrest in France, Mr. Iturbe was reputed to have held secret peace talks with the Spanish Government via an intermediary. The talks were said to have failed because Mr. Iturbe had insisted on local autonomy and a withdrawal of Spanish forces from the Basque region. Still, he was considered a relative moderate within the terrorist group.
      