
       Edward Lamb, a millionaire businessman, broadcaster and lawyer long active in labor union and civil rights causes, died Monday at his home in Maumee, Ohio. He was 84 years old.
        Edward Lamb, a millionaire businessman, broadcaster and lawyer long active in labor union and civil rights causes, died Monday at his home in Maumee, Ohio. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Lamb gave up his practice of corporate law in the 1930's to represent unions, won a United States Supreme Court decision in 1946 that enabled workers to collect pay from the moment they punched the time clock until they washed up after work. and he successfuly fought charges of having ties to Communists in the 1950's.
        At his death, Mr. Lamb was chairman of Great Lakes Communications Inc., which operated WICU-TV in Erie, Pa. He previously served as chairman of the Seiberling Rubber Company, the Nevada National Bancorp and several smaller companies.
        Despite his business success, Mr. Lamb described himself as a radical, and regularly called for higher corporate taxes and the nationalization of basic industries. Active in U.N. Groups
        Mr. Lamb, a spirited advocate of international understanding, served as a trustee of the United Nations Association-U.S.A., and devoted much of his time in recent years to serving on various United Nations support groups.
        Mr. Lamb was one of 10 children of a Lake Erie fisherman and an English-born mother. He worked his way through Dartmouth College, graduating in 1924, and received a law degree from Case Western Reserve University in 1927.
        In 1934, after Mr. Lamb established a corporate law practice in Toledo, workers at an automotive parts manufacturer asked him to represent them in a strike against their company. ''I knew it would finish me with the corporations I represented,'' he said years later, ''but those workers were in the right and I took their case.''
        Mr. Lamb represented more than 75 unions in the 1930's and 1940's, and was jailed several times for contempt of court, a circumstance that he later referred to as a ''badge of honor.''
        In 1946, after a five-year fight on behalf of workers at a pottery plant in Mount Clemens, Mich., Mr. Lamb won the Supreme Court case holding workers were entitled to ''portal to portal'' pay. Legal Battle With F.C.C.  In the late 1940's Mr. Lamb began buying television and radio stations with earnings from stock market investments. He later bought 55 manufacturing concerns, the largest of which was Seiberling, which he acquired in 1962 after losing a proxy fight for control of the company six years earlier.
        His ownership of WICU-TV led to a bitter legal battle with the Federal Communications Commission in the early 1950's, when the station's license was up for renewal and the commission tried to block it on the ground that Mr. Lamb had associated with members of the Communist Party.
        The case lasted nearly four years but Mr. Lamb, who was defended by J. Howard McGrath, a United States Attorney General in the Truman Administration, won in 1957. An associate of Mr. Lamb said of the charges, ''If Ted's a Communist, he's the only one in the world worth $60 million.''
        Mr. Lamb continued his active support of liberal causes in his later years. He participated in antiwar and civil rights demonstrations in the 1960's and wrote a book, ''The Sharing Society,'' which urged the development of a planned economy to eliminate extremes of wealth and poverty.
        He is survived by his wife, Prudence; a daughter, Priscilla Schwier of Perrysburg, Ohio; a son, Edward Hutchinson Lamb of Eire, and five grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Thursday at 2 P.M. in St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Maumee.
        EDWARD LAMB IS DEAD AT 84
      