
       Danny Kaye, the puckish Brooklyn-reared comedian who sang, danced, mimicked, pantomimed and joked his way to Broadway and Hollywood fame, died of heart failure yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, where he was admitted Sunday suffering from internal bleeding and hepatitis, a spokesman for the center said.
        Danny Kaye, the puckish Brooklyn-reared comedian who sang, danced, mimicked, pantomimed and joked his way to Broadway and Hollywood fame, died of heart failure yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, where he was admitted Sunday suffering from internal bleeding and hepatitis, a spokesman for the center said. He was 74 years old and had lived for many years in Beverly Hills.
        Mr. Kaye was incredibly nimble, and he provoked laughter with his tongue-twisting rapid-fire patter, his comic orchestra-conducting and myriad other physical antics.
        Many admirers called him the greatest comedian of his time. President Reagan said yesterday that he ''could light up a room by just smiling,'' and had ''delighted millions with his special talent for making us laugh.'' Worldwide and Enduring Fame
        Mr. Kaye's gaunt, grinning figure, with its manic eyes, red-blond hair and rubbery arms and legs - now floppy as a rag doll, now jerky as a crazed Cossack dancer - became known and loved around the world.
        His charm was astonishingly durable - and protean. Early in his career he worked in nightclubs, where his clowning helped dispel some of the gloom of the Depression era. Then came fame on Broadway, beginning in 1941 with his show-stopping comic singing in ''Lady in the Dark,'' and on movie screens.
        In recent decades he was known largely for comic appearances before children in many countries in behalf of Unicef, and also for his burlesque conducting of symphony orchestras in the United States and Canada. 'A Champion for Children'
        ''He was truly a champion for children in every continent'' the United Nations Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, declared yesterday.
        In a period of about 20 years, Mr. Kaye raised more than $6 million for symphony musicians' pension funds by performing at benefit concerts, with epic zaniness and without charging a fee. He would conduct ''The Flight of the Bumblebee'' with a flyswatter. He would lead ''The Stars and Stripes Forever'' while marching in place. He would do the tango up and down the concert-hall aisle while conducting Ravel's ''Bolero.''
        ''We all mourn the passing of an abundant and unique talent,'' Leonard Bernstein said yesterday.
        Improvisation and exaggeration were cornerstones of Mr. Kaye's method. And so, in a comic appearance with the New York Philharmonic in 1981, as Harold C. Schonberg reported in The New York Times, Mr. Kaye ''was winging it in a sort of blind flight as he went along.''
        ''He came out with two bundles of batons, at least 35, searched for his favorite, gave a vigorous upbeat - and saw the baton fly about 20 feet behind him into the audience,'' Mr. Schonberg continued.
        What made Mr. Kay an instant star on Broadway in ''Lady in the Dark'' was his machine-gun delivery of the comic patter-song ''Tchaikovsky'' - in which he managed to rattle off some 50 polysyllabic Russian names in 39 seconds. Before long, Hollywood beckoned. ''He is a rich and rare comedian with a wonderful sense for the bizarre,'' the New York Times critic Bosley Crowther, a longtime admirer, wrote in 1944. Many Movies
        Mr. Kaye starred in such successful movies as ''Up in Arms'' (1944), ''Wonder Man'' (1945), ''The Kid from Brooklyn'' (1946), ''The Secret Life of Walter Mitty'' (1947),'' ''The Inspector General'' (1949), ''Hans Christian Andersen'' (1952), ''Knock on Wood'' (1953), ''White Christmas'' (1954) and ''The Court Jester'' (1956). He won a special Academy Award in 1954, for service to the movie industry and other achievements.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Kaye's movie career tapered off, but he had a successful weekly television variety show in the 60's, and had film roles in ''The Man From the Diners Club'' (1963) and ''The Madwoman of Chaillot'' (1969).
        The real-life Danny Kaye was a lean, athletic 6-footer with a strongly molded face, but much of his career was spent playing meek, milquetoasty screen characters who somehow triumphed in the end.
        He was proud of the well-honed comic skills he brought to his roles, and insisted that he did not hunger for weightier dramatic fare.
        ''I wasn't born a fool,'' he once said. ''It took work to get this way. I'm just an entertainer. All I want to be is funny. I never aspired to play Hamlet.'' Hoped to Be a Doctor Actually, a doctor's career was his original aspiration during his boyhood in New York, where he was born David Daniel Kaminski on Jan. 18, 1913. His parents were immigrants from the Ukraine. His father had been a horse dealer in the Ukraine, began his life in the United States sewing saddlebags, and wound up a tailor on Seventh Avenue.
        The son found early in life that, as he put it years later, ''people always laughed at my craziness, and I loved that they laughed.''
        Money for medical studies was not in sight, so, after quitting Thomas Jefferson High School, he began his performing career by singing, dancing and making jokes at private parties. He went on to work as an entertainer at Catskill resorts, as well as in nightclubs and vaudeville. Soon he was getting a name for himself, as Danny Kaye.
        ''I'll never forget the years I spent playing every whistle stop in the United States,'' from ''beer brawls in Brooklyn to wine suppers on the Borscht Circuit,'' he later told his biographer, Kurt Singer. ''I played at sugaring-off parties in the Vermont maple country and masked festivals in the Louisiana bayous. I've beat my brains out all over the world.'' A Wooer of Audiences
        Mr. Kaye's wife, Sylvia Fine, described his energetic showmanship more delicately. ''Danny feels about an audience the way most men feel about a date,'' she once said. ''He woos them. He wants to make them happy.'' To be sure, the wooing sometimes failed. Mr. Kaye told about a night in 1938 when he was appearing in a disastrously unsuccessful nightclub act at the Dorchester Hotel in London. He did a rendition of the song ''Dinah,'' and was chagrined to hear a British heckler shout, ''What's that infernal din?''
        In the Japanese port of Osaka, a typhoon struck and doused the lights during a performance, but Mr. Kaye imperturbably carried on, lighting his own face with two flashlights and singing song after song.
        Mr. Kaye's Broadway debut came in 1939 in ''Straw Hat Revue,'' with Imogene Coca. He performed in 10 sketches, and The New York Sun reported that he ''had some of the customers laughing so hard that the tears streamed from their eyes.'' Coach and Critic
        Early the next year he married Miss Fine, a pianist, composer, lyricist and fellow Brooklynite. For many years she turned out patter songs and other material for his performances. She came to serve also as his coach and personal critic, and he said she contributed greatly to his success.
        Not long after the wedding, the young couple's joint capital was less than $70. But Mr. Kaye managed to get work performing at La Martinique, a well-known New York nightclub of the day. On his first night, he improvised a comic conga dance, pretended to collapse, and was carried off by two waiters.
        Such carryings-on were catnip to nightclub audiences. They caught the attention of newspaper columnists and got Mr. Kaye recruited for ''Lady in the Dark,'' in which he played a fashion photographer. The audience demanded several encores of ''Tchaikovsky'' on opening night, making Mr. Kaye upstage the show's star, Gertrude Lawrence.
        For the 1941 Broadway musical comedy ''Let's Face It,'' at the Imperial Theater, the playbill noted that ''Danny Kaye has climbed from comparative obscurity to his present place at the head of the cast in less than 18 months.''
        Critics were enthusiastic. Richard Watts Jr. wrote in The Herald Tribune, ''The oncoming Danny Kaye is brilliantly funny.'' And Mr. Kaye was officially made a star with the placement of his name above the show's title on the theater marquee. Rejected by Army
        After Pearl Harbor, Mr. Kaye was turned down by the Army ''because of a temperamental sacroiliac,'' according to Mr. Singer's book, ''The Danny Kaye Story,'' but he did much performing for the troops.
        He made his Hollywood debut in the role of a hilariously harebrained Army recruit in ''Up in Arms,'' performing with an energy that impressed Mr. Crowther.
        Mr. Kaye ''has youth, good looks and vitality,'' and a ''warmth which even radiates from the screen,'' Mr. Crowther wrote in The Times. But he asked, ''How long can Danny Kaye last at this pace?''
        The answer was years, on the screen and off. Detouring into radio, Mr. Kaye made a name for himself in 1945 with ''The Danny Kaye Show'' on CBS. Appraising it, Time magazine said: ''No Johnny-come-lately to show business, Broadway's limber-faced Danny Kaye was nevertheless an X quality as a disembodied voice. Last week he proved he could be funny in the dark.''
        He also proved he was no flash-in-the-pan on the silver screen, by appearing in a succession of Hollywood films, usually as the clumsily incompetent sort of person known in Yiddish as a schlemiel. 'Classic Routines'
        Reminiscing in 1970 about his career in Hollywood, Mr. Kaye said: ''Hollywood. Loved it. Those were productive, rewarding years. And in a few of those pictures - I hate to use the word, but those were classic routines.''
        Samuel Goldwyn, who gave him his first film role, built ''Wonder Man'' around Mr. Kaye, who played dual roles - a flamboyant nightclub entertainer and his bookworm twin brother. Providing a comely counterpoint as the bookworm's girlfriend was Virginia Mayo, who played similar parts in several other Kaye films.
        In ''The Kid from Brooklyn,'' Mr. Kaye played a meek milkman whom fate turns into a boxer pitted against bruisers. ''The Secret Life of Walter Mitty'' starred Mr. Kaye in seven roles - a mild-mannered commuter and six heroes of his fantasies. ''Hans Christian Andersen,'' an extravaganza that had Mr. Kaye in the title role, probably is his best-known film.
        Mr. Kaye's other films included the unsuccessful ''Me and the Colonel'' (1958), with a screenplay by S. N. Behrman and George Froeschel. It was based on the play ''Jacobowsky and the Colonel'' by Mr. Behrman and Franz Werfel. Box-Office Appeal Faded
        Mr. Kaye conceded that in his later years he was not the box-office draw he had been. ''When I stopped making films,'' he mused in an interview in 1981, ''they were getting on to the more realistic films and the explicit films and all. They were depicting life as it is, and some of it was unpleasant. I gradually moved away from that.''
        Mr. Kaye did a lot of television work, and from 1963 to 1967 he had his own variety program, ''The Danny Kaye Show,'' which won Emmy and Peabody awards.
        By that time he had developed something of a reputation for being moody and difficult to work with, but during the run of his television show Mr. Kaye told an interviewer, ''When I get upset, I just go away for a little while.''
        His work for the United Nations began in the 1950's, and for many years he traveled among third-world countries entertaining young audiences. He reveled in his Unicef title of ambassador at large, although his approach to diplomacy was distinctly free-wheeling. Broadway Reprise
        In 1963, Mr. Kaye appeared in a one-man show at the former Ziegfeld Theater, and in 1970 he was back on Broadway, playing Noah in the Richard Rodgers musical ''Two by Two.''
        Over the years, Mr. Kaye's comic orchestra-conducting won praise from bemused music critics and musicians.
        ''The most appreciated amateur conductor in history,'' Mr. Schonberg of The Times once called him, and ''the conductor with a thousand faces and the ability to reduce an orchestra to a pitch of helplessness unparalleled since the invention of the printed note.''
        Underlying Mr. Kaye's antics, according to Zubin Mehta, the musical director of the New York Philharmonic, was ''innate musical talent.''
        Mr. Kaye was awarded the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian award of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 1982 for his charitable work. In 1984, he was one of the recipients of the Kennedy Center Honors for lifetime achievement in the arts.
        Mayor Koch, in a tribute to Mr. Kaye, said: ''I had the privilege early on as Mayor, of being invited to the home of Danny Kaye here in New York City, where he cooked up a storm - a Chinese dinner. He was an extraordinary comedian and, from the modest contacts that I had with him, I would say also an extraordinary individual.''
        Mr. Kaye's other interests, besides Chinese cooking, included sports. He was a founder and limited partner of the Seattle Mariners baseball team and took pride in his encyclopedic knowledge of the game. He was also a licensed pilot.
        Mr. Kaye is survived by his wife and their daughter, Dena Kaye, who lives in Manhattan.
      