
       George Schoepfer, executive officer and chief engineer of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, died yesterday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J., after a heart attack at the home of one of his children. Mr. Schoepfer, who had been released last week from Beth Israel Hospital in Newark after four weeks of treatment for a heart ailment, was 57 years old and lived in New Springville, Staten
        George Schoepfer, executive officer and chief engineer of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, died yesterday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J., after a heart attack at the home of one of his children. Mr. Schoepfer, who had been released last week from Beth Israel Hospital in Newark after four weeks of treatment for a heart ailment, was 57 years old and lived in New Springville, Staten Island.
        In 1974, Mr. Schoepfer became executive officer of the authority, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority subsidiary that operates garages and nine bridges and tunnels.
        Mr. Schoepfer was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from City College in 1951 with a degree in civil engineering. Mr. Schoepfer joined the bridge and tunnel authority in 1955 and was a close associate of its head, Robert Moses, who died in 1981.
        The chairman of the M.T.A., Robert R. Kiley, said yesterday that Mr. Schoepfer ''was a dedicated and talented public servant and a wonderful human being.'' Monuments to His Contribution
        ''The many contributions he made during his years of service made him one of the people in the public sector who truly made a difference,'' Mr. Kiley said. ''He will be missed, both as a colleague and as a friend.''
        Mayor Koch called Mr. Schoepfer's death ''a tremendous loss to the city'' and added, ''Public facilities built under his direction, including the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, are monuments to his contribution to the city.''
        Mr. Schoepfer was also on the board of governors of the Convention Center Development Corporation, which built the Jacob K. Javits center on the West Side of Manhattan. He was a member of the board of the New York Building Congress and the American Society of Civil Engineers.
        Surviving are his wife, Edna; a sister, Claire Hipp; six children, Patricia Whalen, Eileen Zaccone and Michael, James, Stephen and Kathleen Schoepfer, and 10 grandchildren.
        A mass is to be said Saturday at 9:30 A.M. at St. Teresa's Roman Catholic Church, 1634 Victory Boulevard, near Royal Oak Road, in Castleton Corners, Staten Island.
      