
       Paul Block Jr., a research chemist and co-publisher of The Blade of Toledo, Ohio, and of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, died Sunday at Community Hospital . He was 75 years old.
        Paul Block Jr., a research chemist and co-publisher of The Blade of Toledo, Ohio, and of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, died Sunday at Community Hospital . He was 75 years old.
        He had been visiting at a company residence in Pebble Beach. He lived in Toledo.
        Mr. Block had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for several years, said Albert Cross, president and general manager of The Herald in Monterey, a third newspaper owned by Mr. Block's company.
        With his brother, William, of Pittsburgh, he owned Blade Communications Inc, which publishes the three newspapers. The company also owns television stations in Boise, Idaho; Louisville, Ky.; Lafayette-Ind.; and Lima, Ohio, and cable television operations include Buckeye Cablevision Inc. in Toledo and those in Sandusky, Ohio, and Monroe, Mich.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Block was the son of Paul Block Sr., also a newspaper publisher, and the former Dina Wallach . Published in Journals
        Paul Block Sr. died in June 1941 and his sons were named co-publishers of The Blade and the Post-Gazette in 1942.
        Paul Block Jr., a graduate of Yale University who received a doctorate in organic chemistry from Columbia, continued to conduct scientific research and to teach while in the publishing business. He was the author or co-author of more than 20 papers published in scientific journals. For years, he was the world's sole source of certain synthetic analogues of natural thyroid hormones.
        He was married three times. He leaves his wife, Mary Gall Petok Block, and three sons from previous marriages, Cyrus P. Block of Vancouver, British Columbia, a cinematographer; and the twins Allan James Block, director of marketing for Buckeye Cablevision and John Robinson Block, assistant managing editor for feature articles at The Blade.
        PAUL BLOCK JR., 75
      