
       Paul B. Zuber, a lawyer who was a leading figure in court battles to desegregate several school systems in Northern cities in the early 1960's, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Troy, N.Y. He was 60 years old.
        Paul B. Zuber, a lawyer who was a leading figure in court battles to desegregate several school systems in Northern cities in the early 1960's, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Troy, N.Y. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Zuber, who fought ''de facto'' segregation created by housing patterns, won a Federal court decision in January 1961 that the New Rochelle Board of Education had deliberately created and maintained a segregated school. The decision was affirmed by the United States Supreme Court later that year.
        Mr. Zuber, who was black, also worked to eradicate educational barriers and discrimination in New York City, Chicago, Englewood, N.J., Nassau County and other communities.
        Since 1972, Mr. Zuber had been the director of the Center for Urban Environmental Studies at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy. Gerrymandering Cited by Court
        In the New Rochelle decision, written by Judge Irving R. Kaufman, the court found that ''the Lincoln School was established as an all-Negro school by the gerrymandering of district lines and by the transfer of white children residing in the district to schools outside the district.'' The decision resulted in the transfer of 267 black pupils from the Lincoln School to 11 other schools.
        In the case, Mr. Zuber represented the parents of 11 black children who had been refused the right to register in any school but the Lincoln School.
        Earlier, in September 1960, Mr. Zuber had accompanied 13 black children who sought to enroll at another New Rochelle school, Roosevelt Elementary. When he was rebuffed by the school's principal, the New Rochelle school superintendent and the school board president, Mr. Zuber said, ''The people are afraid that the Negroes then will buy houses in the neighborhoods and still more Negroes will move in.''
        During the 60's, Mr. Zuber asserted that segregation in the North, although less overt than in the South, was no less widespread. Bigots in 'Sheets' and 'Suits'
        ''Down home, our bigots come in white sheets,'' he said at the time, affecting a Southern accent. ''Up here, they come in Brooks Brothers suits and ties.''
        In 1962, he announced himself as an independent candidate against Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr., the Harlem Democrat. Mr. Zuber later withdrew from the race, citing pressures of the integration fight he had undertaken in the Englewood city schools.
        Mr. Zuber was born in Williamsport, Pa. He was a scholarship student at Brown University, where he played football and basketball until his college career was interrupted by Army service.
        Beginning in 1953, while employed by the New York City Health Department, he studied at Brooklyn Law School at night. He was admitted to the bar in 1957. The day after his admission to the bar, he brought his first school action, against the Board of Education here.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Johnson; his parents, Paul and Jennie Zuber, and a sister, Phyllis Zuber, all of White Plains, N.Y.; a daughter, Patricia Zuber-Wilson of Endicott, N.Y.; and a son, Paul W. Zuber of Troy.
        PAUL B. ZUBER IS DEAD AT AGE 60
      