
       Louis M. Hacker, a leading proponent of adult education and a former dean at Columbia University, died yesterday in LeRoy, N.Y. He was 88 years old and lived in LeRoy.
        Louis M. Hacker, a leading proponent of adult education and a former dean at Columbia University, died yesterday in LeRoy, N.Y. He was 88 years old and lived in LeRoy.
        Mr. Hacker joined the faculty of Columbia's economics department in 1935, and was named director of the university's general studies curriculum in 1949, when the program was a series of night classes. He urged that the extension courses be upgraded to a degree program. When Columbia created the School of General Studies in 1952, Mr. Hacker was named its first dean.
        Throughout his academic career, Mr. Hacker was a staunch advocate of adult education courses.
        ''Many students come to us 10, 20, 30 years after graduation from high school,'' he said in an interview. ''They are intelligent and serious but they could not pass a college-entrance examination after such a long interruption of their studies. They want to try a college course, perhaps only one or two, before deciding whether they can go on. We let them try. Why not?'' Resigned in 1958
        Mr. Hacker resigned as dean of the school in 1958 following a faculty report that urged tighter restrictions on students who took a limited number of courses with no intention of seeking a degree. He remained an economics professor at Columbia until his retirement in 1967.
        After stepping down as dean, Mr. Hacker was appointed foreman of a grand jury investigating the fixing of television quiz shows.
        A economics historian, Mr. Hacker was also the author of a dozen books on American history.
        An active member of the American Civil Liberties Union, Mr. Hacker defended several of his faculty members who refused to cooperate with Congressional committees investigating left-wing activities in the 1950's.
        Mr. Hacker was born in Manhattan on March 17, 1899. He grew up in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn and graduated from Columbia College in 1922.
        He is survived by a son, Andrew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Betsy Dexheimer of Batavia, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        There will be a private memorial service in Batavia tomorrow.
      