
       Frederic Garrett Donner, chairman and chief executive of the General Motors Corporation from 1958 to 1967 and a company director for 32 years, died early yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 84 years old.
        Frederic Garrett Donner, chairman and chief executive of the General Motors Corporation from 1958 to 1967 and a company director for 32 years, died early yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Donner, a financial expert who kept out of the limelight, joined G.M. as an accountant in 1926 and enjoyed a steady rise up the corporate ladder. He was said to have an uncommon ability to absorb facts and figures, and the intricate corporate and financial structure of the giant automobile maker was a metier that suited him well.
        ''The corporation flourished under his chairmanship, establishing new records in sales, earnings, dividend payments and worldwide sales,'' the current chairman, Roger B. Smith, said yesterday in a statement. He praised his predecessor as ''a true financial genius'' and a ''businessman's businessman, with a well-ordered, analytical mind and clarity of expression.'' A Rise Through the Ranks
        Mr. Donner, the son of an accountant, was born Oct. 4, 1902, in Three Oaks, Mich. After graduation from the local high school, he studied economics at the University of Michigan and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1923.
        He worked for an accounting firm in Chicago for three years before moving to New York in 1926 to join the financial staff of G.M. He rose to assistant treasurer, general assistant treasurer and, in 1941, vice president in charge of the financial staff.
        Mr. Donner, though virtually unknown to the outside world, acquired a reputation for carrying a mental card-index on a vast number of subjects.
        He helped set up one of the first bank-credit arrangements in World War II to assure working capital for expanding war production. In 1948, he was among G.M. executives to tour Germany's bombed-out cities and suggest that the company reclaim its German subsidiary, Adam Opel AG, which had been written off as a loss in the war but remains one of West Germany's biggest car makers.
        In that postwar period, Mr. Donner also helped devise a stock split, the sale of $325 million worth of additional common stock and a $300 million bond issue. He also was largely responsible for revised and expanded pension plans and a stock-purchase plan for salaried employees.
        In 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him to the board of directors of the Communications Satellite Corporation. He also was a former director of the Metropolitan Opera and, from 1968 to 1975, chairman of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.
        Mr. Donner's survivors include a daughter and six grandchildren. His wife, the former Eileen Isaacson, died in 1983.
        A funeral service was scheduled for Monday at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church in Port Washington, L.I.
      