
       Eugen Jochum, one of the last representatives of the traditional German school of conducting and the founder of the Bavarian Radio Symphony, died Thursday at his home in Munich after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Eugen Jochum, one of the last representatives of the traditional German school of conducting and the founder of the Bavarian Radio Symphony, died Thursday at his home in Munich after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Jochum was widely respected for his many recordings and the warmth and idiomatic assurance of his conducting of repertory from Bach to Hindemith.
        He was perhaps best known as a Bruckner specialist, recording the cycle of the symphonies and serving as president of the West German Bruckner Society.
        ''Today, everyone thinks of me as a specialist in Bruckner's symphonies,'' he said in a 1983 interview. ''But I began with the music of Bach, Mozart and Beethoven. And it is to their music that I still feel closest.'' Conductor for Opera Companies
        Mr. Jochum was born in the small Bavarian town of Babenhausen on Nov. 1, 1902. His musical family included two prominent brothers, the composer and choirmaster Otto Jochum (1898-1969) and the conductor Georg Ludwig Jochum (1909-1970). Demonstrating musical talent from an early age, he studied at the Augsburg and Munich conservatories and began his conducting career in the traditional manner for Central European conductors, at small opera companies. After several such stints, Mr. Jochum succeeded Karl Muck and Karl Bohm in 1934 as music director of the Hamburg State Opera.
        ''We in Germany are very lucky because we have so many opera houses,'' he said in an interview in 1978. ''I think the young conductor must first go to the opera house, because here he learns, you could say, how to drive a car. You can do an opera 20 times -you learn to chauffeur. I did my first 'Rosenkavalier,' in Kiel, nearly without rehearsal. I did my first 'Meistersinger' without any rehearsal. If you conduct many operas, you must have a good technique.''
        In the meantime, Mr. Jochum had not neglected the symphonic repertory. He founded and led the Hamburg Philharmonic from 1934 to 1949. His breakthrough had come in 1926, when at the age of 23 he led a performance of Bruckner's Symphony No. 7.
        ''This symphony made my whole career,'' Mr. Jochum recalled in 1978. ''I began playing the organ when I was 4 years old. I like very much Baroque churches. It was all very similar in feeling to Bruckner, so his style was never difficult for me.'' Purposefully but Genially
        From his earliest recordings, Mr. Jochum's interpretive profile seemed well formed. He was neither an intense literalist like Arturo Toscanini nor a brooding mystic like Wilhelm Furtwangler, whom he much admired. His conducting - in Bach, Haydn, Beethoven and Brahms as well as Bruckner - flowed purposefully but genially forward, responding to the music without imposing his will upon it in a self-conscious way. He could be called the epitome of the German Kapellmeister tradition.
        ''I know very precisely what I want, but I hope I am not a schoolmaster,'' he said. ''I don't want to be a dictator, I only want to make the orchestra free -in some ways it is more difficult than to be a dictator. I am not a man who thinks that if the orchestra has the greatest discipline, it's the best.''
        Mr. Jochum's career advanced steadily if unspectacularly during the Nazi regime, but he was not stigmatized as a Nazi sympathizer after the war. His relationship with the Amsterdam Concertgebouw Orchestra, which he had first conducted during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, remained close thereafter. He served as its co-conductor, with Bernard Haitink, from 1961 to 1964, and made his American debut with it in 1961.
        His principal postwar engagement, however, was the Bavarian Radio Symphony; he founded it in 1949, elevated it to Munich's leading orchestra and led it until 1960. After that, he concentrated on guest appearances, in both orchestral and operatic repertory. His concerts in New York included engagements with the New York Philharmonic, the Mostly Mozart Festival and, most recently, with the Bamberg Symphony and the Y Chamber Symphony in 1983.
        His wife, Maria, died in 1985; he is survived by his daughters Veronica, a concert pianist, and Romana.
      