
       Morton Minsky, the last of four brothers who made burlesque a New York institution, died yesterday of cancer at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old.
        Morton Minsky, the last of four brothers who made burlesque a New York institution, died yesterday of cancer at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Minsky, the youngest of the four brothers, joined the family empire in 1924, upon his graduation from New York University. Their burlesque houses helped the early careers of such comics as Phil Silvers, Joey Faye, Rags Raglan and Abbott and Costello, despite the fact that comedy took second place to the attraction of such magnetic young women as Gypsy Rose Lee.
        The Minskys worked to prevent their burlesque from being confused with vaudeville, which on the Lower East Side - where the family got its start by showing motion pictures in a Houston Street building it owned - was often called ''burlesk.'' In the family's New Apollo Theater on 125th Street, which presented skits with titles like ''Julius Teaser,'' the Minskys advertised their wares as ''Not a Family Show.''
        In a 1930 interview, Mr. Minsky told The New York Times that there had been almost no ''police trouble.'' There had been a raid in 1927, accompanied by 12 arrests and a summons served on brother Abraham for smoking a cigar backstage, and what had been planned as an orderly exit by the audience turned into a riot. The incident was the basis of the 1968 movie ''The Night They Raided Minskys,'' directed by William Friedkin; Morton Minsky helped do research for the film. Just Good Fun
        By 1937, the Minskys owned six burlesque houses in New York and several others elsewhere, but that year, the New York theaters were closed on orders from Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia, who deemed them a corrupting moral influence. Mr. Minsky, who was a prolific writer of letters to the press, always took the position that what went on in his theaters was good fun -earthy but not salacious entertainment. In testimony before a House committee that same year, Morton and Herbert Minsky declared that ''stripping'' was a typically American art, whose practitioners required rigorous training.
        Mr. Minsky later lamented the elimination of burlesque, which he contended was an innocent presentation in comparison with the sexual openness of younger generations.
        ''We tried to elevate burlesque and see what it got us,'' he said when the family's empire had faded away.
        Mr. Minsky later became involved in real estate; in 1967 he was elected a senior vice president of Daniel A. Brener Inc., where he headed a division specializing in motion-picture theater sales and leasing.
        He also co-wrote, with Milt Machlin, the book ''Minsky's Burlesque,'' which was published by Arbor House last year, He is survived by his wife, Ruth Goldstein Minsky.
        MORTON MINKY IS DEAD AT 85
      