
       Scott McKay, an actor who played almost 30 featured roles on Broadway during a stage career that began in 1939 and spanned 36 years, died of kidney failure Monday at Cabrini Hospital in New York. He was 71 years old.
        Scott McKay, an actor who played almost 30 featured roles on Broadway during a stage career that began in 1939 and spanned 36 years, died of kidney failure Monday at Cabrini Hospital in New York. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. McKay's range varied from light comedy to drama written by major American authors. He was in the Broadway casts of Maxwell Anderson's ''Eve of St. Mark''; Garson Kanin's ''Live Wire'' and ''Born Yesterday''; Lillian Hellman's ''Another Part of the Forest''; William Faulkner's ''Requiem for a Nun''; John Van Druten's ''Bell, Book and Candle,'' and John Steinbeck's ''Moon Is Down.'' After starring on tour in Jean Kerr's ''Mary, Mary,'' he returned to New York in the leading role.
        In ''Teahouse of the August Moon,'' Mr. McKay portrayed Captain Fisby in a cast starring Burgess Meredith. He played with Margaret Sullavan for a season in ''Sabrina Fair'' and toured with Lucille Ball in ''Dream Girl.'' His movies included ''Duel in the Sun,'' with Jennifer Jones and Gregory Peck; ''Kiss and Tell,'' with a grown-up Shirley Temple, and ''Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo,'' with Spencer Tracy and Van Johnson. He also appeared frequently on radio and television, in such network shows as Play of the Week, Alfred Hitchcock Presents and the United States Steel Hour. In recent years, he had turned to writing and was the author of 13 plays.
        Mr. McKay was born Carl Gose in Pleasantville, Iowa, on May 28, 1915, and his first theatrical job was as a stooge for a magician touring Iowa. He graduated the University of Colorado, where he majored in English literature. From Boston's Federal Theater Project in the late 1930's, Mr. McKay went on to Broadway, where his first role was a walk-on in ''Good Hunting.''
        He is survived by his wife, Anna-Marie; a sister, Margaret; two sons by a previous marriage, Peter and Anthony; three stepchildren, Cinette, Therese and Frank, and two stepgrandchildren.
      