
       Henry R. Labouisse, a State Department and United Nations official who headed Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund, from 1965 to 1979, died of cancer Wednesday at Memorial Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Henry R. Labouisse, a State Department and United Nations official who headed Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund, from 1965 to 1979, died of cancer Wednesday at Memorial Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Labouisse, a native of New Orleans, was trained as a lawyer and also served as director of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees from 1954 to 1958.
        In 1961 President Kennedy named him director of the International Cooperation Administration, the United States foreign aid organization that was a forerunner of the Agency for International Development. He was Ambassador to Greece from 1962 to 1965.
        In accepting the 1965 Nobel Peace Prize, which was awarded to Unicef, Mr. Labouisse declared that the prize had ''reinforced our profound belief that, each time Unicef contributes, however modestly, to giving today's children a chance to grow into useful and happier citizens, it contributes to removing some of the seeds of world tension and future conflicts.'' A Tribute From Unicef's Chief
        Yesterday, upon hearing of his death, James P. Grant, Unicef's present executive director and a deputy under Mr. Labouisse in the creation of A.I.D., said, ''Harry Labouisse contributed so much towards making the world a better place for all of us, expecially for our children.''
        Mr. Labouisse, who traveled widely on behalf of Unicef, was a deft diplomat and administrator whom his daughter once called ''a Northernized Southern gentleman'' who was ''not of the mint-julep-and-magnolia school.''
        He once said Unicef's ''clients are children, and children know no political barriers.'' In August 1968, after both sides in the Nigerian civil war had barred the movement of relief supplies to sites where they were most needed, he declared at a news conference:
        ''With strong and affirmative cooperative action on the part of all concerned, a great many lives can be saved. Without it, untold thousands of innocent people will die.''
        Under his direction, Unicef managed to provide aid on both sides of the Nigerian battlefronts, and in the chaotic aftermath of the 30-month war. Relief Efforts in Cambodia
        In 1979 Mr. Labouisse oversaw Unicef's relief efforts in Cambodia, then afflicted by famine, where he said that 700,000 children and sick people were ''in extreme need,'' and that malaria, dysentery and other diseases were decimating those who had been weakened by hunger.
        Mr. Labouisse's time as head of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, aiding Palestinian refugees, repeatedly exposed him to controversy. Annual United Nations debates about that agency included exchanges of accusations by Arab and Israeli speakers, with the two sides blaming each other for the 1948 Arab-Israeli war and for the plight of Arab refugees.
        But he tried to stay out of such exchanges, and he also preferred brief statements at sessions of Unicef's board. He once observed that ''too many speeches are made in this world.''
        Henry Richardson Labouisse was born on Feb. 11, 1904. He received a bachelor's degree from Princeton in 1926 and a law degree from Harvard in 1929. He practiced law in Manhattan until 1941, when he joined the State Department, beginning 13 years in a variety of Government foreign-affairs posts. Marshall Plan Operations
        He played a key role in setting up Marshall Plan operations in postwar Europe and served in 1948 and 1949 as the State Department's coordinator of foreign aid and assistance.
        After heading the Relief and Works Agency, Mr. Labouisse became a consultant to the World Bank and was a special adviser to Dag Hammarskjold, then Secretary General of the United Nations, during the Congo crisis in 1960.
        When Mr. Labouisse became director of the International Cooperation Administration in 1961, President Kennedy also made him the head of a group that mapped a reorganization of foreign aid.
        In his next appointment, as Ambassador in Athens, Mr. Labouisse played a key role, in August 1964, in an American effort to get Greek leaders to exercise caution during a crisis on Cyprus.
        Mr. Labouisse resigned from the Athens post after Secretary General U Thant and the Unicef board asked him to become that organization's executive director, succeeding Maurice Pate, who had recently died.
        Mr. Labouisse married Elizabeth Scriven Clark, a granddaughter of Alfred Corning Clark, founder of the Singer Manufacturing Company, in 1935. She died in 1945. In 1954 he married Eve Curie, an author and journalist who was the youngest daughter of the scientists Pierre and Marie Curie.
        He is survived by his second wife; by a daughter by his first marriage, Anne Peretz of Cambridge, Mass., and by four grandchildren.
        HENRY R. LABOUISSE DIES
      