
       W. Sterling Cole, who represented an upstate New York district in the United States House of Representatives from 1935 to 1957 and was the first director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, died of cancer Sunday at the George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Arlington,
        W. Sterling Cole, who represented an upstate New York district in the United States House of Representatives from 1935 to 1957 and was the first director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, died of cancer Sunday at the George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Arlington, Va.
        Mr. Cole was a leading Republican spokesman on atomic energy issues. In 1953 and 1954, he was the chairman of the Joint Atomic Energy Committee. He also supported private participation in the development of atomic energy for peaceful purposes.
        Mr. Cole served the 37th District, comprising Broome, Chemung, Tioga and Steuben Counties. When he first went to Washington in 1935 Mr. Cole was, at age 31, the youngest Republican member of the House. In the House, he served on the Naval Affairs and Armed Services Committees. Left Congress in 1957
        In 1957, Mr. Cole resigned from Congress to serve four years as the director general of the energy agency, which was established in Vienna to execute President Eisenhower's ''atoms for peace'' proposals.
        The agency encouraged the international supervision of programs that would bring nuclear power to all nations for peaceful purposes. The United States and the Soviet Union were to provide expertise, training and raw fuels, and an international agency was to supervise the construction and operation of nuclear reactors.
        As the director general, Mr. Cole reportedly expressed disappointment because the United States and the Soviet Union discussed nuclear issues with other nations individually rather than through his agency.
        In Congress, Mr. Cole opposed Government centralization and kept a stern eye on spending. In 1954, about 350 colleagues signed a petition asking President Eisenhower to make him the Comptroller General, who is the chief watchdog over Federal spending. Signatures in Red Ink
        For several years during the Truman Administration, Representative Cole signed his official correspondence in red ink, followed by the notation: ''Red is a symbol of and warning against our twin dangers: Socialism and bankruptcy.''
        Mr. Cole, who practiced law in Washington until about two years ago, was was born in Painted Post, N.Y. His father, Dr. Ernest E. Cole, was an educator, a member of the State Legislature and the State Commissioner of Education.
        The younger Cole graduated from Colgate University and the Albany Law School of Union University in Schenectady. In the mid-1920's, Mr. Cole was a public school teacher in Corning, N.Y. In 1930, he established a law practice in Bath, N.Y.
        Mr. Cole is survived by his wife, Mary Elizabeth Thomas; two sons, Thomas E., of Potomac, Md., and David A., of Arlington; a brother, James P., of Buffalo, 10 grandchildren and five great-granchildren.
        A funeral service is scheduled for 2 P.M. Thursday at the Presbyterian Church in Bath.
      