
       Louis de Broglie, a French physicist who won the 1929 Nobel Prize for work in wave mechanics, died Thursday at a hospital in Paris, his relatives announced. He was 94 years old.
        Louis de Broglie, a French physicist who won the 1929 Nobel Prize for work in wave mechanics, died Thursday at a hospital in Paris, his relatives announced. He was 94 years old.
        ''The death of Louis de Broglie marks the disappearance of one of the most brilliant pioneers in contemporary physics,'' said Jean-Claude Lehmann, director of the physics department at France's National Center for Scientific Research.
        Louis de Broglie belonged to a noble family, originally from the Piedmont in Italy, that had founded a French branch before the 18th century and produced prominent French military, political and scientific figures. He was known as Prince most of his life, but in 1960, on the death of his elder brother, Maurice, a fellow physicist, he was designated Duke, the title traditionally held by the head of the family.
        His work leading to the Nobel Prize was associated with the early evolution of quantum theory, a physical theory concerned with the emission and absorption of energy by matter and with the motion of material particles.
        Early quantum theory said that waves sometimes behaved like particles. In 1923, the Prince de Broglie showed mathematically that particles, in turn, should exhibit wavelike properties, a prediction that led to the development of the field of wave mechanics.
        The idea that there was a universal link between particles and waves was confirmed experimentally by others in 1927, and Prince de Broglie won the Nobel award for his theory.
        Louis Victor Pierre Raymond de Broglie was born in Dieppe on Aug. 15, 1892. His grandfather, Albert de Broglie, had been Prime Minister of France in the 1870's under Marshal Patrice de Mac-Mahon, one of the early Presidents of the Third Republic. And a great-grandfather fought on George Washington's side in the American Revolutionary War as the chief lieutenant of the Marquis de Lafayette.
        Louis de Broglie studied at the Lycee Janson-de-Sailly in Paris and received his bachelor's degree in history from the Sorbonne. He said in an interview in 1953: ''After passing examinations in history I felt that I was more interested in scientific philosophy and science.''
        In 1913, he received a degree in science from the Sorbonne.
        Much of Prince de Broglie's career was devoted to teaching, first as a lecturer at the Faculty of Sciences, where in 1928 he was appointed professor of theoretical physics at the Henri Poincare Institute. In 1943, to help bring physicists and mathematicians closer, he founded the Center of Studies in Applied Mathematics at the Poincare Institute.
        In 1945, Louis de Broglie and his brother Maurice, who was an experimental physicist known for X-ray research, were appointed advisers to the French Atomic Energy Commision.
        Louis de Broglie was elected a member of the Academy of Sciences, France's highest body in the natural sciences, in 1933, and he became its permanent secretary in 1942.
        His distinction as a writer led to his being elected two years later to the French Academy, the top institution in language and literature, to which he was inducted in May 1945 by his elder brother. Their father and grandfather also had been members.
        Prince de Broglie wrote more than 20 books, several of which were published in English, including ''The Revolution in Physics,'' ''An Introduction to Wave Mechanics,'' and ''Matter and Light.''
      