
       Walter Lockhart Gordon, a former Finance Minister and one of the foremost advocates of Canadian economic independence from the United States, died after suffering a heart attack here on Saturday. He was 81 years old.
        Walter Lockhart Gordon, a former Finance Minister and one of the foremost advocates of Canadian economic independence from the United States, died after suffering a heart attack here on Saturday. He was 81 years old.
        As Finance Minister in the Liberal Government of Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson from 1963 to 1965, Mr. Gordon attempted to reduce the economic domination of Canada by the United States.
        Mr. Gordon was forced to drop a 1963 budget proposal to place a 30 percent tax on the shares acquired by foreign companies involved in takeovers of Canadian-owned concerns. He eventually left the Pearson Cabinet and returned to private business, but his ideas on economic nationalism took root and became a major force in Canadian politics.
        Those ideas have been widely debated in the last year as a result of efforts by the conservative Government of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney to broaden trade and investment ties with the United States through a wide-ranging ''free trade'' agreement. Mr. Gordon opposed the initiative, saying it would lead Canada farther down the road toward economic assimilation. 'Foolish to Give Up Control'
        More than 80 percent of Canada's foreign trade is with the United States, and many Canadian companies are owned by American interests.
        ''The economic arguments, I believe, support the view that Canadians are foolish to give up control of their economy,'' Mr. Gordon said in an interview in the 1960's. ''Having said that, I think there are other arguments, emotional and psychological. I don't think Canadians want to give up their independence.''
        Mr. Mulroney issued a statement saying that Mr. Gordon was ''never afraid to ask the difficult questions.''
        John N. Turner, leader of the Liberal Party, called Mr. Gordon ''the most influential of our Canadian economic nationalists, a pioneer in seeking an economically independent Canada.'' Backed National Medical Plan
        Mr. Gordon's career was also marked by outspoken concern for the poor and disadvantaged in Canada and by support for nuclear disarmament. He was one of the prime advocates of a national medical insurance plan introduced in 1967, now considered the principal achievement of the Pearson Government.
        But he fell out with Mr. Pearson when he advocated Canada's withdrawal from the North American Air Defense Command and a reduced commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        In private life Mr. Gordon was active in the family accounting concern of Clarkson, Gordon & Company, and in a separate management consulting concern, Woods, Gordon & Company, which he established. Last year, he sold the holding company that oversaw his family's interests, Canadian Corporate Management.
        Announcement of the death was witheld until a after private funeral. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, and three children.
      