
       Richard Levinson, one of television's most prolific and respected writers, died of a heart attack yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 52 years old.
        Richard Levinson, one of television's most prolific and respected writers, died of a heart attack yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 52 years old.
        He had collaborated with his partner, William Link, for nearly four decades, since they wrote plays in junior high school. Among the team's creations were such hit series as ''Murder, She Wrote'' and ''Columbo,'' and dozens of films and television movies, including ''That Certain Summer,'' ''The Execution of Private Slovik'' and ''My Sweet Charlie,'' for which they won an Emmy Award.
        The team won a reputation for quality and originality in a field where critics use such words sparingly. Peter S. Fischer, who created ''Murder, She Wrote'' with Mr. Levinson and Mr. Link, said of Mr. Levinson, ''He felt if it was worth doing it was worth doing well.''
        His 38-year collaboration with Mr. Link was a rarity in Hollywood, where partnerships do not last long. Asked in 1985 whether true art can be a collaboration, he said: ''To me the novel is the highest form of art. No two people can write a great novel. But in a medium of popular entertainment, when you're collaborating with actors, directors and everyone else anyway, I see nothing wrong with a writing team.
        ''Bill and I have no pretensions to be artists,'' he said. ''We are not Gunter Grass or Vladimir Nabokov. What we try to do is the highest quality popular entertainment we can do, with an occasional thought sticking through.'' Partners in Junior High School
        The collaboration and the friendship of Mr. Levinson and Mr. Link began in 1946 in junior high school in suburban Philadelphia, where they created radio scripts. At the University of Pennsylvania, the team wrote film criticism for the college newspaper and had several short stories published in Playboy magazine.
        Their first work in ''the big time,'' Mr. Link said, came in 1959 when their play ''Chain of Command,'' an Army drama, was performed by the Desilu Playhouse. Over the next few years they wrote for such programs as ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' ''Dr. Kildare'' and ''The Fugitive.'' They created their first television series, ''Mannix,'' in 1968. In 1969, they created ''Columbo,'' for which the team won an Emmy, and in 1975 they created ''Ellery Queen.''
        The penchant toward mystery writing earned them four Edgar Awards -a record number - from the Mystery Writers of America for contributions to the writing of mystery stories in television series. When not working on television series they were writing stage plays, including the Broadway show ''Merlin,'' a showcase for the magic tricks of Doug Henning, and television movies. ''That Certain Summer,'' which was broadcast in 1972, was one of the first television films about a homosexual relationship. ''My Sweet Charlie'' was the story of an interracial friendship, and ''The Execution of Private Slovik'' was based on a controversial military trial. Touched 'Emotional' Chord
        ''His real love was the TV movie,'' Mr. Link said of his partner. ''Each time out we tried to do something that hadn't been seen before, something that would touch an emotional or social chord.''
        Their most recent collaboration, however, was another mystery series, ''Murder, She Wrote,'' which Mr. Levinson described more than a year ago as riding the wave of renewed interest in mysteries. ''It is definitely a time for mysteries again,'' he said. ''There is a theory that during a time of chaos, the orderly procedures of the classic mystery have renewed appeal. I'm not sure I subscribe to that theory. I just think the form has a lot of juice to it. People keep rediscovering it.
        ''Car chases are becoming too expensive to film,'' he said. ''On shows like ''Murder, She Wrote'' most of the scenes are just two or three people in a room talking.''
        Mr. Levinson is survived by his father, William; his wife, Rosanna, an actress, and a daughter, Christine, both of Los Angeles.
      