
       Michele Molese, a tenor who sang leading roles for nearly two decades with the New York City Opera, died on July 5 in Broni, Italy, after suffering a heart attack. He was 60 years old and had lived in Broni since his recent retirement from singing.
        Michele Molese, a tenor who sang leading roles for nearly two decades with the New York City Opera, died on July 5 in Broni, Italy, after suffering a heart attack. He was 60 years old and had lived in Broni since his recent retirement from singing.
        Mr. Molese, born in New York to Italian-American parents, pursued his studies and early career in Italy, making his debut at the Teatro Nuovo in Milan in 1957. He sang in other Italian cities and spent six seasons as a leading tenor of the Belgrade Opera in Yugoslavia before joining the City Opera in 1964 as Pinkerton in ''Madama Butterfly.'' He was praised by The New York Times at his debut for an ''unusually complete'' acting portrayal that ''seemed to blend a little Stanislavsky with his Puccini,'' and for a strong voice that was ''pleasant and fluent.''
        In later years critics sometimes complained about his vocalism, but Mr. Molese continued to be indispensable to the company, appearing in almost every tenor role in the standard repertory. He was often Beverly Sills's leading man, and appeared with her in new productions of ''Manon,'' ''Faust'' and ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' among others. A Public Retort
        His value to the City Opera survived a brief squabble that erupted when Mr. Molese did what hundreds of singers must have wanted to do. Harold Schonberg had written in The Times about some squeezed high notes from Mr. Molese, and on Nov. 1, 1974, the tenor struck back. He took a powerful high C in ''Un Ballo in Maschera,'' and after the applause died down he said to the audience, ''That pinched high C is for Mr. Schonberg.''
        Julius Rudel, the company's general director at the time, discharged the tenor for unprofessional conduct and told the press that he did not anticipate Mr. Molese's being rehired. But he was, repeatedly; he gave his last City Opera performances six years later as Cavaradossi in ''Tosca.''
        Mr. Molese is survived by his wife, Zoe Papadaki, a former mezzo-soprano who appeared in ''Carmen'' at the City Opera with Mr. Molese in 1967.
      