
       Steve Rubell, the flamboyant co-founder of the Studio 54 discotheque who rebounded from a tax-evasion conviction to operate trendy Manhattan hotels, died Tuesday night at the Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I.
        Steve Rubell, the flamboyant co-founder of the Studio 54 discotheque who rebounded from a tax-evasion conviction to operate trendy Manhattan hotels, died Tuesday night at the Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I.
        A spokesman, Dan Klores, said Mr. Rubell died of complications from hepatitis and septic shock, a condition caused by bacterial infection.
        Regarded as master promoters, Mr. Rubell and his longtime partner, Ian Schrager, 42, were hailed at the height of the disco craze in the late 1970's as the ''first pashas of disco.'' Owning and operating the enormously popular nightclub on West 54th Street - which opened in April 1977 and is now defunct - they hosted celebrities and society figures and their bevies of hangers-on, selectively admitting customers at the door.
        The music was abruptly halted in 1979 when the partners were indicted on Federal income-tax charges involving more than $2.5 million skimmed from club receipts over three years. They pleaded guilty to evading corporate and personal taxes and each served 13 months in prison. They sold the club a short time after their release, in January 1981. Chic Hotels Without Marquees
        In the 1980's they and other partners formed a multimillion-dollar real-estate syndicate that acquired, among properties, two luxury hotels in Manhattan -Morgans, on Madison Avenue at 37th Street, and the Royalton, on West 44th Street. The buildings were renovated by Mr. Rubell and his partners and reopened as chic hostelries without marquees. Mr. Rubell and Mr. Schrager also converted the old Academy of Music on East 14th Street into the Palladium, a plush multi-media nightclub.
        The syndicate also recently bought the Century Paramount Hotel on West 46th Street and the landmark Barbizon Hotel on Lexington Avenue at 63d Street.
        Mr. Rubell and Mr. Schrager, who were best friends since their days at Syracuse University, seemed extraordinarily able to rebound from their prison terms, despite being refused checking accounts by banks and hotel liquor licenses by New York State.
        Mr. Rubell had told an interviewer: ''I'd like to think that we are the best example of people who screwed up -this was no one's fault but our own -and were able to come back. The system worked for us.'' Painting Palm Trees Gold
        The partners were also able to win over celebrities and business associates who, in interviews, stressed that the men had repented and paid their dues. In arranging a 500-guest party for one celebrity, they spent a Sunday spray-painting palm trees gold and hired a dozen dancers costumed as Carmen Miranda to perform the conga.
        Mr. Rubell was a native of Brooklyn, where he attended public schools before going on to Syracuse. There he received bachelor's and master's degrees in finance.
        His father, Philip, was a postman and an avid tennis player who taught his children and grandchildren how to play the sport. The wiry young Steve was captain of the Syracuse tennis team and won 17 consecutive matches in his senior year.
        Besides his father, he is survived by his mother, Ann, and a brother, Donald, all of Manhattan.
      