
       Paul C. Mangelsdorf, a botanist whose cross-breeding of corn and other grains earned him a world reputation, died in his sleep Saturday at the Carol Woods Retirement Community in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he lived. He had celebrated his 90th birthday two days earlier.
        Paul C. Mangelsdorf, a botanist whose cross-breeding of corn and other grains earned him a world reputation, died in his sleep Saturday at the Carol Woods Retirement Community in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he lived. He had celebrated his 90th birthday two days earlier.
        Dr. Mangelsdorf, who taught at Harvard University for 28 years before he retired in 1968 as Fisher Professor of Natural History, traced the origins of modern corn to the primitive maize grown by native Americans.
        Through back-breeding, he produced maize that resembled 7,000-year-old specimens found in Mexico. Between Man and Starvation
        ''Corn is one of perhaps not more than 15 species of cultivated plants of worldwide importance,'' Dr. Mangelsdorf wrote, ''each one the principal source of food for millions of people, which quite literally stand between mankind and starvation.''
        After his formal retirement, Professor Mangelsdorf continued his cross-pollination experiments at the University of North Carolina.
        Seven years ago he supplied the crossbred seeds from which an Argentine colleague produced corn that grows perenially rather than annually, relieving farmers of the need to plant a new crop every spring.
        He also helped develop hybrid seed corn that did not require the time-consuming process of removing corn tassels by hand, and he was the first to develop winter wheat with rust-resistant stems. Grains from his experiments are now widely grown in the Southwest and Latin America. Research Began in Kansas
        He was born in Atchison, Kan., where his father sold seeds and plants to farmers. He began his research at Kansas State University.
        He was the author of ''Corn: Its Origin, Evolution and Improvement,'' published in 1974, and wrote numerous articles for scientific journals about plant breeding. He was a past president of the Genetics Society of America, the American Society of Naturalists and the Society for Economic Botany.
        He is survived by two sons, Paul Jr., of Swarthmore, Pa., and Clark, of Pittsburgh; three sisters, Louise Stauffer and Helen Odell, both of Fort Myers, Fla., and Dorothy Paulsen of Carrollton, Tex.; a brother, Harold, of Short Hills, N.J.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      