
       Nigel Forbes Dennis, a British novelist, playwright and book and drama critic whose reviews were frequently published on both sides of the Atlantic, died Wednesday after a long illness, the Associated Press reported from London. He was 77 years old and lived in London.
        Nigel Forbes Dennis, a British novelist, playwright and book and drama critic whose reviews were frequently published on both sides of the Atlantic, died Wednesday after a long illness, the Associated Press reported from London. He was 77 years old and lived in London.
        Mr. Dennis was best known for his novel ''Cards of Identity,'' which was published in the United States by Vanguard in 1955. Its black humor enjoyed cult status among young Britons in the 1950's. The novel centered on an annual conference of the Identity Club, an English club whose men and women assumed new personalities by hypnosis and hocus-pocus.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Orville Prescott called it ''a satire of modern life in England written in the form of farce, fantasy, parody and lunacy. Much of it is verbally clever, and the whole thing has a wild ingenuity that ought to be more entertaining than it is. Mr. Dennis is undeniably a clever man. He is a witty man too. But his cleverness and his wit are submerged beneath a sea of surrealistic mockery.''
        Mr. Dennis turned ''Cards of Identity'' into a play that was staged at the Royal Court in London in 1955. His play ''The Making of Moo,'' first staged at the Royal Court in 1957, was produced Off Broadway in 1958 at the Rita Allen Theater, with a cast that included Betsy Von Furstenberg, William Redfield and Roger De Koven. Reviewing it in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson said that Nigel Dennis is ''beastly about religion,'' adding that ''it is possible that 'The Making of Moo' is not so silly as it sounds.'' In U.S. from 1934 to 1949
        Rex Harrison starred in Mr. Dennis's 1962 play ''August for the People'' at the Edinburgh Festival. The play -which had been commissioned by the arts festival - was later staged at the Royal Court in London.
        Mr. Dennis was born in 1912 in Bletchingley in southeastern England. He lived as a boy in what was then southern Rhodesia and later moved to Germany. His father, an officer in the British Army, died in 1918.
        Mr. Dennis came to the United States in 1934 and remained until 1949. He served as a book reviewer for The New Republic (1937-38); for Time Magazine, writing from London (1940-58); for The Sunday Telegraph (1961-82); as drama critic for Encounter Magazine (1960-63), and as joint editor of Encounter (1967-70).
        As a critic, Mr. Dennis sometimes gave as good as he got. He once described D. H. Lawrence's novel ''Lady Chatterly's Lover'' as ''that mournful, squawking, tedious little book.'' He was also critical of ''two-volume biographies of one-volume persons.''
        Mr. Dennis wrote a biography of Jonathan Swift that appeared in 1964. His last novel, published in 1966, was ''A House in Order,'' set during a third world war.
        Mr. Dennis is survived by his second wife, Beatrice Ann Matthew, and by two daughters.
      