
       Rabbi Gunter Hirschberg, the spiritual leader of one of America's leading Reform Congregations, Temple Rodeph Sholom in Manhattan, and president of the New York Board of Rabbis, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Rabbi Gunter Hirschberg, the spiritual leader of one of America's leading Reform Congregations, Temple Rodeph Sholom in Manhattan, and president of the New York Board of Rabbis, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Rabbi Hirschberg, who served as cantor at Rodeph Sholom from 1952 to 1963 before becoming an associate rabbi there, was also a member of the board of governors of the World Union of Progressive Judaism and president of the Alumni Association of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Manhattan.
        Born in Berlin in 1920, Mr. Hirschberg was sent to London in the early 1930's as part of a British-German exchange program for young children. He studied at Jews College and at the University of London. His parents remained in Germany and were early victims of the Holocaust.
        When England entered World War II against Germany, he and other Germans in England were offered the option of joining the British or Australian army. He went to Australia and in 1947 came to the United States to pursue a career as an opera singer, studying under the Metropolitan Opera basso, Alexander Kipnis. Instead of continuing with his opera studies, Mr. Hirschberg took a position as cantor at Rodeph Sholom and later attended Columbia University and the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion. He was ordained in 1963 and was named associate rabbi at the temple. In 1972, he was named Senior Rabbi. Fighter for Social Justice
        In his 37 years with Rodeph Sholom, he earned a reputation as an educator, advocate of inter-religious cooperation and a fighter for social justice.
        In the early 1970's, he founded the first Reform Jewish day school, the Rodeph Sholom Day School, the forerunner of some 15 such schools that are operating today. He also helped to organize efforts by Roman Catholics, Protestants and Jews to combat neighborhood problems on Manhattan's West Side.
        His compassion for the underprivileged was underscored in a Yom Kippur sermon he gave in 1981.
        ''When I reflect on the injustices involved in the budget cuts,'' he said, ''when I think of the children who will have less to eat in the richest country in the world, then, my friends, it isn't a political issue with me. It's a moral issue. I don't think of it as a Democrat or Republican. The Jew in me is offended.''
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth.
      