
       John Ward Studebaker, a former United States Commissioner of Education, died Wednesday at Rossmoor Manor Convalescent Hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 102 years old.
        John Ward Studebaker, a former United States Commissioner of Education, died Wednesday at Rossmoor Manor Convalescent Hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 102 years old.
        Mr. Studebaker headed the Office of Education for 14 years, during the administrations of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman. He was appointed by President Roosevelt in 1934 and resigned in 1948, saying he could no longer afford to remain in the $10,000-a-year position.
        But he told friends he could no longer kowtow to what he regarded as the political domination of the department. He then became vice president and chairman of the editorial board of Scholastic Magazines Inc., a position he held for 20 years, retiring in 1968. Worked His Way Through College
        The Office of Education in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, became the separate Department of Education, with a Cabinet-level Secretary, in the Carter Administration in 1979.
        Mr. Studebaker, who worked his way through Leander Clark College as a bricklayer, was a public school principal before he became Assistant Superintendent of Schools in Des Moines in 1914.
        In World War I he took a leave to serve as national director of the Junior Red Cross and to earn a master's at Columbia University. In 1920 he was named Superintendent in Des Moines, where he initiated special education programs for handicapped children and slow learners.
        In 1934, he was appointed Commissioner of Education and by 1940 he had begun a five-year effort in which 12 million men and women were trained for military industries. He also developed educational programs for the functionally illterate, who were being rejected by the armed forces because of their illiteracy. Role in G.I. Bill of Rights
        Mr. Studebaker was also a member of a wartime committee that developed the educational opportunities of the G.I. Bill of Rights. He was the author of many articles and several books, including ''The American Way'' and ''Plain Talk.'' He was awarded honorary doctor of laws degrees by Drake University in 1934, Muhlenberg College in 1938 and Boston College in 1948.
        He is survived by his son, John Gordon Studebaker, and a sister, Dorothy Vitullo, both of Rossmoor, Calif.
      