
       Former Gov. John N. Dempsey, a liberal Democrat who helped foster Connecticut's reputation in the 1960's as a national trend-setter in social and environmental laws, died of lung cancer today at his home in Killingly, Conn. He was 74 years old.
        Former Gov. John N. Dempsey, a liberal Democrat who helped foster Connecticut's reputation in the 1960's as a national trend-setter in social and environmental laws, died of lung cancer today at his home in Killingly, Conn. He was 74 years old.
        Mr. Dempsey returned home Friday after being a patient for a month at the John Dempsey Hospital in Farmington, which was named in his honor.
        He served as Connecticut's Governor from 1961 to 1971, overseeing the passage of a job-training law that became the model for the Federal Manpower Training Act, and the first revision of the Connecticut Constitution in 150 years, which redrew the boundaries of the General Assembly districts.
        In the Dempsey years, Connecticut was also among the first states to impose restrictions on air and water pollution, well in advance of similar Federal laws. Mr. Dempsey also pushed through the first appropriations to establish the University of Connecticut Health Center, which includes the hospital named for him. Born in Ireland
        John Noel Dempsey was born Jan. 3, 1915, in Cahir, County Tipperary, Ireland, the only son of a career British Army officer. He immigrated with his family in 1925 to Putnam, Conn., in the northeastern corner of the state. Mr. Dempsey lived there most of his life, working first in the town's then-booming textile industry and then in Town Hall, which became the base for his rise in state politics.
        Known throughout his career as a gregarious and diplomatic man, Mr. Dempsey was elected to the Putnam City Council at the age of 21, and over the next 25 years served in every elected municipal position, including six two-year terms as Mayor, beginning in 1948. After his election to the General Assembly in 1949, he divided his responsibilities between local and state offices.
        While continuing as Mayor, Mr. Dempsey served in Connecticut's General Assembly from 1949 through 1955, then as an executive secretary to Gov. Abraham A. Ribicoff from 1955 until 1958, when he was elected Lieutenant Governor.
        He became Governor in January 1961, when Governor Ribicoff resigned to become Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare under President John F. Kennedy. Mr. Dempsey, Connecticut's first foreign-born Governor in almost 300 years, was elected twice on his own over Republican opponents, in 1962 and 1966.
        He chose not to run again in 1970 and returned to Putnam and to the family textile business. He worked briefly as an consultant on environmental matters to the Southern New England Telephone Company in the early 1970's and remained active in state politics. Constitutional Crisis
        Perhaps the greatest crisis of his governorship occured in 1964, when a Federal District Court panel ruled that the General Assembly districts were unconstitutional because of changes in state population. Working under an emergency declaration that kept Assembly members in office through two special sessions, the state revised the districts and put a revised Constitution in place in 1965, in time for the 1966 elections.
        Mr. Dempsey is survived by his wife, the former Mary Frey; three sons, the Rev. Edward and John Jr., both of Hartford, and Kevin, of West Hartford; a daughter, Margaret Dempsey Gankofskie of Willington, and nine grandchildren.
        A wake will be held Tuesday from 2 to 4 P. M. and 7 to 9 P. M. at the Connecticut State Armory in Putnam and a funeral mass will be celebrated on Wednesday at 11 A. M. at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Putnam.
      