
       Walter Karp, a writer specializing in United States political history, died yesterday morning in the Roosevelt Hospital Division of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, said Cathy Rohan, a hospital spokeswoman. He was 55 years old and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        Walter Karp, a writer specializing in United States political history, died yesterday morning in the Roosevelt Hospital Division of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, said Cathy Rohan, a hospital spokeswoman. He was 55 years old and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        Ms. Rohan did not give the cause of death. Mr. Karp's wife, the former Regina Pollack, said the cause of death was not known, but that an autopsy was being done.
        Mrs. Karp said her husband was admitted to the hospital on July 13, suffering from an enlarged colon. He had surgery for it on Sunday night, suffered from complications after the surgery and then was in intensive care, she said. 'Suspicious of Political Power'
        Mr. Karp, the author of eight books, was a longtime contributing editor of Harper's magazine, whose publisher, John R. MacArthur, said yesterday: ''Walter Karp is one of the very few writers, journalists and citizens that I have ever met who actually lived, but maybe more importantly articulated the Jeffersonian ideal. He was a ceaseless foe of Government intrusion on civil liberties and also deeply suspicious of political power.''
        The July issue of Harper's includes an article by Mr. Karp called ''All the Congressmen's Men: How Capitol Hill Controls the Press.''
        Reviewing Mr. Karp's 1973 book, ''Indispensable Enemies: the Politics of Misrule in America,'' Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote in The New York Times that Mr. Karp ''scores some particularly telling points along the way: like his argument that it is not institutions or historical processes that account for why things happen, but rather the people who run institutions and make history (his attempt to explode the myth of bureaucratic bungling is particularly adept).''
        Mr. Karp was born and reared in the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn. He was the valedictorian of the class of 1955 at Columbia College, after being elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Contributions to Magazines
        As a writer or editor, he contributed to Pageant magazine, Time-Life Books, Horizon magazine, American Heritage magazine and other publications. In 1969, in collaboration with H. R. Shapiro, he wrote and published a journal about American politics called The Public Life. The journal's ideal was self-government for all Americans.
        Mr. Karp's other books included ''The Politics of War'' (1979) and ''Liberty Under Siege: American Politics, 1976-1988'' (Henry Holt, 1988).
        Reviewing ''Liberty Under Siege,'' Timothy Noah wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Karp's outlook was ''a quirky blend of 18th-century liberalism and the 20th-century left'' and that the book's flaws included ''cranky speculation disguised as argument.''
        Mr. Karp was active on the Freedom to Write Committee of PEN American Center, and he wrote the forward to a 1988 book sponsored by PEN, ''Liberty Denied: the Current Rise of Censorship in America'' by Donna A. Demac.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Karp is survived by his parents, Morris and Libbie Karp, of Brooklyn; a brother, Richard Karp, of Manhattan; a sister, Rosalind Gotfried, of Brooklyn; a son, Roy, and a daughter, Jane. Holtzbrinckd(Henry Holt)
      