
       James P. McAllister, a retired tugboat and transportation executive, died of a stroke Sunday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan and Port Jefferson, L.I.
        James P. McAllister, a retired tugboat and transportation executive, died of a stroke Sunday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan and Port Jefferson, L.I.
        Mr. McAllister was involved in tugboat operations in New York, working 53 years for McAllister Brothers Inc., the family-owned company which he joined in 1924.
        For 40 years, Mr. McAllister represented the industry in labor negotiations. He was also chairman of the National Maritime Historical Society, president and director of the New York Towboat Exchange and Harbor Carriers Association and founder and chairman of the Marine Towing and Transportation Employers' Association.
        He worked with other organizations, including the State Board of Commissioners of Pilots, the New York chapter of the National Defense Transportation Association and the New York and New Jersey Port Promotion Association.
        When he retired in 1977, Mr. McAllister was president, chairman and chief executive officer of the towing company, which his grandfather founded in 1864. After retiring, Mr. McAllister founded a consulting and investment business in Manhattan.
        Besides owning two automobile agencies in East Setauket, L.I., Mr. McAllister was an avid racer of vintage sports cars. He stopped racing Maseratis when he was 75 years old.
        He studied mechanical engineering and naval architecture at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute.
        Mr. McAllister was a Knight of Malta, a member of the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity and a trustee of St. Charles Hospital in Port Jefferson.
        Surviving are his wife, Helen; two sons, James 3d, of Stamford, Conn., and Neill, of Port Jefferson; a daughter, Ellen Perrott of Stamford; three sisters, Justine Roach of Pelham, N.Y., Isabel Etzel of Manhasset and Joan Smith of Garden City, L.I.,; 17 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.
      