
       Forrest H. Anderson, who in one term as Governor of Montana helped bring sweeping changes to the state's governmental system, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound Thursday at his home here. He was 76 years old and had been in failing health for years.
        Forrest H. Anderson, who in one term as Governor of Montana helped bring sweeping changes to the state's governmental system, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound Thursday at his home here. He was 76 years old and had been in failing health for years.
        The death was ruled a suicide Friday by the Lewis and Clark County Coroner, Mickey Nelson, who said Mr. Anderson had shot himself in the abdomen.
        Gene Daly, a former State Supreme Court Justice who was a longtime friend, said: ''I would think he just got damn tired of being sick. I know he was unhappy about being incapacitated.'' Big Changes in One Term
        Mr. Anderson, a Democrat, won the governorship in 1968 by defeating the Republican incumbent, Tim Babcock. He declined to seek re-election four years later, citing poor health, and soon afterward underwent intestinal surgery.
        Although he served only one term, Mr. Anderson oversaw some of the most sweeping changes in the history of Montana government. When he took office, the state was run by more than 300 boards, bureaus and agencies.
        By the time he left, it had 19 state departments and a new Constitution. The Way Up to Governor
        Mr. Anderson was born in Helena to immigrant merchants Jan. 30, 1913. He received a law degree from Catholic University in Washington in 1938 and then returned here to set up a practice.
        His 30 years in state government began in 1942, when he was elected to the Montana House of Representatives.
        A series of successful campaigns followed, bringing him election as the Lewis and Clark County Attorney in 1944, election to the Montana Supreme Court in 1952, and election to the first of three terms as State Attorney General in 1956 and finally to the governorship.
        He is survived by his wife, Evelyn; two daughters, Margaret Templin of Seattle and Arlee Taylor of Great Falls, Mont.; a son, Newell Anderson of Helena, and five grandchildren.
      