
       What began 14 years ago as a narrowly economic summit meeting was leavened this year by politics - to everyone's benefit. Indeed, this time the seven leaders glossed over the economic issues that divide them. But they found new direction and common purpose on broader issues, most notably how to deal with rapid change in Eastern Europe.
        What began 14 years ago as a narrowly economic summit meeting was leavened this year by politics - to everyone's benefit. Indeed, this time the seven leaders glossed over the economic issues that divide them. But they found new direction and common purpose on broader issues, most notably how to deal with rapid change in Eastern Europe.
        President Mitterrand tried to make this year's meeting grander by inviting third world leaders to share the bicentennial Bastille Day's froth. There was more posturing for cameramen than meaningful North-South mixing. Even so, summit meetings do no harm, and this one did some good.
        The first summit meeting, in 1975, was an intimate, informal weekend in the French countryside to exchange thoughts on the then-soaring price of oil, currency exchange rates and trade. These annual get-togethers have since grown coldly formal, for the most part. But this year economics, politics and the interests of all seven nations came together on two major issues outside the strictly economic -Eastern Europe and the global environment.
        On the environment, the seven were more loquacious than specific. They devoted a third of their communique to the urgency of ecological threats, but set no program. On Eastern Europe, they were constructive and even spontaneous.
        President Bush arrived in Paris full of enthusiasm after a brief visit to Poland and Hungary. But he wisely refrained from trying to control the follow-up in Paris. He assumed correctly that the Western European allies would offer direct financial aid equal to or exceeding his own modest commitments to help develop private enterprise.
        The seven easily agreed to coordinate direct assistance for both countries, and to ease Poland's foreign debt burden in exchange for structural reforms. Unexpectedly, they assigned the coordination to the European Community's executive commission.
        More than mere bureaucratic convenience, this new role acknowledges that the community is becoming a power itself. And more than just mouthing good intentions, the seven set a meeting of all interested countries, not just themselves or community members, in the next few weeks. They also agreed to address Poland's ''urgent need for food'' - a clear recognition that the whole effort to achieve democratic reform will founder without a quick response to Poland's food shortages.
        Summit meetings bring the leaders face to face for concentrated conversation that even the best of modern communications cannot match. More's the pity that they did not spend more time in Paris on old problems - the third world's agonizing debt, and mounting trade frictions among themselves. But the time was not wasted. New policies for new openings in Eastern Europe need careful development, and protection for the world's environment needs leadership from the top. The Paris summit conference was an appropriate forum for setting the pace on both.
      