
       William T. Whisner Jr., who shot down 21 enemy planes as a United States fighter ace in World War II and the Korean War, died of complications from a yellow jacket sting last Friday in Alexandria, La. He was 65 years old.
        William T. Whisner Jr., who shot down 21 enemy planes as a United States fighter ace in World War II and the Korean War, died of complications from a yellow jacket sting last Friday in Alexandria, La. He was 65 years old.
        As a young Army Air Corps pilot in World War II, Mr. Whisner was credited with shooting down 15 1/2 German planes. A half kill is registered when two people shoot at an enemy plane that is downed and each is credited.
        In the Korean War, Mr. Whisner, as an Air Force pilot, was credited with 5 1/2 kills of enemy MIG-15 jets. With his combined total of 21 kills, Mr. Whisner ranks as the 18th-leading ace among the nation's fighter pilots, an Air Force spokesman, Lieut. Col. Tom Mahr, said yesterday.
        But behind the statistics was a dash and boldness vividly reflected by a fierce encounter in the skies over Belgium in the closing days of World War II in which Mr. Whisner racked up four of his kills. He was part of a group of 12 fighter pilots who engaged 115 German dive bombers on New Year's Day 1945 and shot down 23 of them without a single loss to themselves.
        As a result of the action by the then-Captain Whisner and his fellow pilots, who were members of the 487th Fighter Squadron in the Eighth Air Force, virtually the entire group of enemy planes was kept from reaching the forward air base at the height of the Battle of the Bulge, thus saving the base. The 12 pilots were later cited for their ''extraordinary heroism'' and ''fearless tactics'' by President Harry S. Truman, and Mr. Whisner received the Distinguished Service Cross.
        Mr. Whisner also competed in air races, and in 1953, while an Air Force major, he won the 1,900-mile Bendix Trophy Race, flying an F-86F Sabre jet from Edwards Air Force Base in California to Dayton, Ohio, in what was then a record time of 3 hours 5 minutes and 45 seconds, for an average speed of 603.5 miles an hour.
      