
       Cyril E. Black, a history professor who was a member of the Princeton University faculty for 50 years, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Cyril E. Black, a history professor who was a member of the Princeton University faculty for 50 years, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Professor Black was the emeritus James S. McDonnell Distinguished Professor of History and International Affairs at Princeton. He had been director of the school's Center of International Studies from 1968 to 1985.
        Professor Black's specialty was modern history with an emphasis on Russian history since 1700. He joined the Princeton faculty in 1939 and became a full professor in 1954. In 1946, he inaugurated the study of Russian history with an undergraduate course that he taught until the 1970's. He also taught courses on comparative revolution and comparative modernization. He retired in 1986.  He was the first person to hold the Duke Professorship of Russian History, from 1961 to 1970, and from 1972 to 1983, he held the Shelby Cullom Davis chair in European history. 'A Complete Fabrication'
        A native of Dryson City, N.C., he spent his boyhood in Turkey and Bulgaria. During World War II, he served with the State Department in Washington and Eastern Europe. As a Foreign Service Auxiliary Officer, he was an aide to the United States Political Adviser on the Allied Control Commission in Bulgaria from 1944 to 1945. In the fall of 1945, he was adviser to the Ethridge Mission sent to Bulgaria, Rumania and the Soviet Union to report on the carrying out of the Yalta Declaration. He, along with other officials, was later charged with espionage by the Bulgarian Government, a charge he dismissed as ''a complete fabrication.'' In 1958 he was a member of the United States Delegation to Observe Elections to the Supreme Soviet.
        He studied at the University of Besancon in France, the Austro-American Institute of Education in Vienna and the University of Berlin. He was a graduate of Duke University in Durham, N.C., and held a master's and a Ph.D. from Harvard. Professor Black was also the author of several books, most recently ''Understanding Soviet Politics: The Perspective of Russian History,'' published in 1986.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Corrine Manning; a son, James, of Cheverly, Md.; a daughter, Christine, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      