
       Elliott M. Sanger, the co-founder and longtime chief of WQXR, the pioneer classical music radio station that became the station of The New York Times in 1944, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 92 years old.  Mr. Sanger founded the station in 1936 with John Vincent Lawless Hogan, an engineer and inventor.
        Elliott M. Sanger, the co-founder and longtime chief of WQXR, the pioneer classical music radio station that became the station of The New York Times in 1944, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 92 years old.  Mr. Sanger founded the station in 1936 with John Vincent Lawless Hogan, an engineer and inventor. They shared a dedication to classical music and a conviction that programming semi-classical and light concert music with high standards would attract listeners and eventually advertisers. They believed there was an audience for live concerts in their entirety and for new composers and performers.
        At a time when sponsors generally controlled the content of radio broadcasts, Mr. Sanger, a scholarly man with a wry humor, prohibited what he deplored as ''singing jingles and raucous sound effects.''
        He was also an early advocate of FM broadcasting, likening the airing of a concert on the lower-fidelity AM band to viewing a great painting ''through a curtain of gauze.'' In 1939, WQXR became the first FM station in New York City and presented the first regularly scheduled FM program in the country. Almost by Accident
        Mr. Sanger was the executive vice president and general manager of WQXR from its founding until 1965 and chairman until 1967, when he retired. He saw the station begin almost as an accident and develop into an innovative cultural force.
        Paradoxically, WQXR came into being because of television. Mr. Hogan was working to develop TV on an experimental noncommercial station, W2XR. He played classical records four hours a day to test the sound chamber, and listeners who chanced to picked up the signals began requesting recordings.
        He and Mr. Sanger, who was then an advertising executive, were having supper one evening in 1935 in the Hotel Bossert in Brooklyn Heights. They agreed on the need for more good music on the air and to establish the Interstate Broadcasting Company above a garage in Long Island City near the Queensborough Bridge. The studio was a small room draped in monk's cloth to aid sound fidelity.
        The station, renamed WQXR, operated on a feeble 250 watts, barely enough power to reach parts of Queens, Brooklyn and Manhattan. Decades later, it and its network beamed programs over a 50,000-watt transmitter to places as far away as Washington, D.C., western Pennsylvania and southern Canada. Magnet for Performances
        When The Times bought the station, Mr. Sanger continued as the active chief. Mr. Hogan, who was a consultant until 1949, died in 1960. Mr. Sanger's wife, the former Eleanor Naumburg, stayed on for 27 years and became the program director.
        Over the years, the station sharply increased its audience and became a magnet for performances by leading composers, conductors and musical artists. Mr. Sanger, who left the station briefly in 1960 to manage the International Edition of The New York Times in Paris, recounted its rise in a 1973 book, ''Rebel in Radio: The Story of WQXR,'' published by Hastings House. Elliott Maxwell Sanger was born in Manhattan on March 2, 1897 and graduated from Townsend Harris High School and the Columbia University School of Journalism, which gave him a Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1952. Directed Grand Jury Association In World War I, he was an ensign assigned to Washington to promote sales of war bonds. After the war, he was a copywriter in an advertising agency and then directed advertising and sales for the J. R. Beaton Company, hosiery wholesalers, until the founding of WQXR.
        Mr. Sanger collected rare books on New York City history, which he presented to Columbia's library. He was a former president of Elder Craftsmen, which helps people sell their crafts, former director of Manhattan's Grand Jury Association and a former interviewer in oral histories for the American Jewish Committee.
        Besides his wife, he leaves two sons, Elliott Jr. of Manhattan and Kenneth, of White Plains, and three grandchildren.
        Services will be private.
      