
       With the most vivid image of him a poster - the Black Panther defense minister poised on a throne-like rattan chair, a spear in one hand, a rifle in the other - it would be easy to see Huey Newton living and dying by the gun. A fuller picture is more complex. Huey Newton, the son of a Louisiana sharecropper who had also been a rebel, was, in his own words, ''a street kid with an education.
        With the most vivid image of him a poster - the Black Panther defense minister poised on a throne-like rattan chair, a spear in one hand, a rifle in the other - it would be easy to see Huey Newton living and dying by the gun. A fuller picture is more complex. Huey Newton, the son of a Louisiana sharecropper who had also been a rebel, was, in his own words, ''a street kid with an education.'' And as hard-won as his street wisdom had been, so too had come his book learning. Streetwise to Book Smart
        Illiterate when he graduated from high school, Dr. Newton taught himself to read, went to college and attended law school. Nine years ago, after a decade as one of the nation's most charismatic symbols of black anger, he earned a Ph.D. degree in social philosophy from the University of California at Santa Cruz. His dissertation was titled: ''War Against the Panthers: a Study of Repression in America.''
        But somehow Dr. Newton never escaped the streets. And after years in which he battled drug and alcohol abuse, after many encounters with the law, he was shot to death early yesterday at the age of 47 on a street in Oakland, Calif.
        In a telephone interview from Philadelphia yesterday, Bobby Seale, who in 1966 helped Dr. Newton found the Black Panther Party, said: ''I'm rather shocked at him dying this way. It's a profound piece of history he and I represent. He and I should have lived to be old militant senior citizens.''
        ''We've never advocated violence, violence is inflicted upon us,'' Dr. Newton had told a New York Times reporter in June 1970, a month after a California court overturned his conviction for killing an Oakland police officer. ''But we do believe in self-defense for ourselves and for black people.''
        At the time, that stance, the raised fists and the guns were more than enough to unnerve an establishment still shaky from Vietnam war protests, civil rights marches and inflamed ghettos. In California, the State Senate subcommittee on un-American activities said the Black Panthers were controlled by the Communist Party of the United States to ''serve as shock troops on the front line of the revolution.'' Called Hoodlums by Hoover
        J. Edgar Hoover, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, described the Panthers as a ''black extremist organization'' consisting mostly of ''hoodlum-type revolutionaries.''
        And in 1974, Thomas Orloff, the deputy district attorney for Alameda County who prosecuted Dr. Newton on numerous charges, called him ''a man who lived by violence'' and ''nothing but a gangster.''
        Huey Percy Newton, who was named after the populist governor of Louisiana, Huey Long, was born in New Orleans on Feb. 17, 1942, the son of Armelia and Walter Newton. His father was a sharecropper and Baptist minister who once was almost lynched for talking back to white bosses. The youngest of seven children - four boys and three girls - he once described the family as ''very together.''
        When he was 1 year old, the family moved to Oakland, an industrial city whose population is now about half black. ''I was lucky,'' he once said. ''I knew the block and I knew the book.''
        In a 1973 interview with Playboy magazine, Dr. Newton said he spent his childhood in a state of war with his teachers, being suspended from school about 30 times, breaking open parking meters and being arrested at 14 years old for gun possession.
        It was only after his graduation from Oakland Techinical High School that Dr. Newton learned to read. ''I read Plato's 'Republic,' '' he told an interviewer. ''I read it through about five times until I could actually understand it.'' 'Trigger Point in My Life'
        ''This was a trigger point in my life,'' he added, ''because after I finally succeeded in reading this book, I sort of gobbled up everything I could.''
        Inspired by his brother, Melvin, who earned a master's degree in social work, Dr. Newton graduated from Merritt College, a two-year institution in Oakland, and later, for eight months, took courses at San Francisco Law School. He once successfully defended himself in court against a charge of stealing from a bookstore.
        At Merritt College Dr. Newton met Mr. Seale, and also was introduced to the Black Muslims. ''Malcolm X was the first political person in this country that I really identified with,'' Dr. Newton said. ''If he had lived and not been purged, I probably would have joined the Muslims.
        ''As it is,'' Dr. Newton continued, ''his insistence that blacks ought to defend themselves with arms when attacked by police became one of the original points in the program of the Black Panthers.''
        Little was heard from the Black Panthers until May 2, 1967, when about 30 members armed with rifles and shotguns marched into the California State Assembly at Sacramento to protest a proposed arms control law. Dr. Newton was not there, but from then on the Black Panthers were the stuff of headlines.
        In the weeks after, Oakland police stepped up their surveillance of the Panthers. About 5 A.M. on Oct. 28, 1967, Dr. Newton and a friend, Gene McKinney, were returning from a party when their car was stopped for a traffic check by Officer John Frey. Soon another police officer arrived. Officer Dead, Newton Charged
        A scuffle ensued, and moments later Officer Frey was dead of bullets fired from his own gun. Dr. Newton had a bullet wound in the stomach. After his indictment for first-degree murder, Dr. Newton's case became a national cause celebre. ''Free Huey,'' became a standard cry of students on the nation's seething campuses.
        In his defense, Dr. Newton claimed he had been shot in the stomach by Officer Frey and was unconscious when the officer was killed. But he was convicted of voluntary manslaughter in September 1968 and sentenced to 2 to 15 years in prison.
        In May 1970, however, the California Court of Appeals overturned the conviction, citing ''omitted instructions'' to the jury and other prejudicial errors as the basis for its decision. Two years later, after Dr. Newton's second and third trials both ended in hung juries, the charges were dismissed.
        Shortly before his release from the California Men's Colony in San Luis Obispo, Dr. Newton told a New York Times reporter that the goal of the party to create a ''Democratic socialist society free of racism.'' He said he envisioned a society where the people controlled the institutions and government was a cooperative responding to collectivism.
        But Dr. Newton returned from prison to find that party membership in 45 cities had dropped below 1,000, depleted by arrests, killings and defections. And even that slim base was split later by a schism between Dr. Newton and Eldridge Cleaver, the party's minister of information.
        For a time the Panthers ran free health clinics, an accredited elementary school, a children's breakfast program, a bus service for relatives visiting prison inmates and a clothing outlet. Continual Scrapes With Law
        Through the years, Dr. Newton continued to become entangled with the law. In 1974, charged with pistol-whipping his tailor, possession of a hand gun and of murdering a 17-year-old prostitute, he fled to Cuba. Dr. Newton eventually returned to face the charges in 1977.
        He was tried twice on the murder charge, and both trials ending in mistrials with the juries deadlocked in favor of acquittal. The charges where dismissed in 1979.
        He was convicted in 1978 for possession of a handgun, but was acquitted on the charge of assaulting his tailor after the victim refused to testify against him. He served nine months in San Quentin Prison on the gun charge in 1987.
        In March, Dr. Newton was sentenced to 6 months in jail after pleading no contest to charges of misappropriating $15,000 in public money earmarked for a school that the Black Panther Party had operated in the early 1980's.
        In interviews in recent years, Dr. Newton had acknowledged drinking two quarts of cognac a day and abusing cocaine, heroin and Valium. He had attended a drug abuse program in 1984, which he said was paid for by the comedian Richard Pryor.
        Since being granted parole on the weapons conviction, Dr. Newton had twice been returned to prison for violation of parole after arrests for possession of narcotics paraphernalia and failure to submit to required drug testing.
        Dr. Newton is survived by his wife, Fredrika Slaughter-Newton of Berkeley; a son, Ronnie; two daughters, Jessica and Kieron; his brothers Melvin, Edward and Walter, all of Oakland, and three sisters, Leola Johnson and Doris Godfrey, both of Oakland, and Myrtle Seymour of Berkeley, Calif.
      