
       Sir Peter Scott, a painter, ornithologist, yachtsman and television personality who abandoned hunting to become one of the world's leading campaigners for wildlife protection, died of a heart attack Tuesday, his environmental group said today. He was 79 years old.
        Sir Peter Scott, a painter, ornithologist, yachtsman and television personality who abandoned hunting to become one of the world's leading campaigners for wildlife protection, died of a heart attack Tuesday, his environmental group said today. He was 79 years old.
        The prominent conservationist suffered the attack while visiting the west England city of Bristol and died there, according to the Wildlife and Wetlands Trust at Slimbridge on the Severn River estuary in Gloucester where he lived.
        Sir Peter was a founder in 1961 of the World Wildlife Fund and a longtime officer of that and many other conservation groups. He would have been 80 on Sept. 14.
        He was 2 years old when his father, Capt. Robert Falcon Scott, died of starvation and exposure in an Antarctic storm in 1912 after being beaten to the South Pole by a month by Roald Amundsen of Norway. A Father's Legacy
        Captain Scott had left a note to his wife in his hut saying: ''Make the boy interested in natural history; it is better than games. Make him a strenuous man.'' His son said in later life that he felt having a hero for a father meant he had to do well in different fields by his own effort.
        He graduated from the Oundle School and Trinity College at Cambridge University, where he shifted his studies from natural sciences to art in his final year. He then did postgraduate study in art in Munich and London.
        He became a celebrated painter of geese and wildfowl, illustrating and writing many books and exhibiting at major shows in London and New York. He also did paintings recalling his war service in the British Navy and portraits of many personages, including members of the British royal family.
        He was a Bronze medalist in yachting in the Olympic Games of 1936 and three times won decorations as a commander of destroyers and gunboats in World War II, when he also designed the camouflage adopted by the British Admiralty for all ships on duty in the Atlantic.
        He was also a champion glider pilot, the British helmsman in the 1964 America's Cup series - his Sovereign lost to the Americans' Constellation -and the first Briton to be knighted, in 1973, for major contributions to conservation. He wrote 18 books on natural history, illustrated 20 books by other authors and published three volumes of travel diaries as well as an autobiography, ''The Eye of the Wind,'' in 1961. He was outspoken in efforts to protect whales, describing whale-hunting countries as ''international hooligans.'' Led Naturalists' Expeditions
        In 1949, he explored the unmapped Perry River area of the Canadian Arctic and led expeditions of naturalists to Iceland, Australasia, the Galapagos and Seychelles Islands and three times to the Antarctic.
        Sir Peter said he founded his wildfowl trust on the Severn estuary in 1946 as a haven for migrating geese and other waterfowl after shooting a goose and watching it die. ''I thought I wouldn't do that to my worst enemy, so why should I do it to a goose?'' he recalled.
        The naturalist had been the first vice president of the World Wildlife Fund, now known as the World Wide Fund for Nature, from 1961 to 1984 and designed its panda logo. He was also a longtime officer of many other conservation groups and a recipient of many honors, including eight honorary degrees. Conservation's 'Patron Saint'
        Sir David Attenborough, the broadcaster and naturalist, called Sir Peter ''the patron saint of conservation.''
        ''The world at large owes him a huge debt,'' Sir David said, adding, ''I think that in years to come he will be seen as one of the great figures who warned the world of what was happening, and did something about it.''
        Sir Peter was the host of a long-running environmental series ''Look'' by the British Broadcasting Corporation.
        In February, Sir Peter was named Conservationist of the Year by the American magazine Wildlife Art News and in May he was presented with the Conservation Medal of the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Philippa Talbot-Ponsonby; their son, Robert Falcon Scott, and daughter, Dafila, and a daughter, Nicola, from a previous marriage to the novelist Elizabeth Jane Howard that ended in divorce in 1951.
      