
       Robert F. Jani, whose company produced spectacular stage shows for Radio City Music Hall and developed concepts for the Walt Disney organization, died Sunday night at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 54 years old and had been ill for four years with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the affliction known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
        Robert F. Jani, whose company produced spectacular stage shows for Radio City Music Hall and developed concepts for the Walt Disney organization, died Sunday night at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 54 years old and had been ill for four years with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the affliction known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
        Mr. Jani was responsible for the revival of the Music Hall's ''Magnificent Christmas Spectacular'' in 1978 when, after being on the brink of closing, the huge hall had a grand ''re-opening.'' In 1979, he was named president of a unit called Radio City Music Hall Productions, a title he relinquished in 1981 to become executive producer, then producer and director and finally, independent producer-director of shows there. He was responsible for the Christmas show and other special stage productions intended to restore the original luster of Music Hall programing.
        Among the other mammoth undertakings he staged in the 5,882-seat hall were ''America,'' which had a 27-week record run, and ''Encore'' and ''Manhattan Showboat,'' which received enthusiastic critical and public approval. Worked on Euro-Disneyland
        Mr. Jani was both a product of and contributor to Walt Disney Productions, where he had been a vice president engaged in planning the live entertainment at the various Disney parks. Although he retained his creative relationship with Disney, he later did it through his own company, Robert F. Jani Productions, which has recently been working on the master entertainment plan for Euro-Disneyland, which is to open in Paris in 1992.
        The producer harnessed large-scale logistics to his pursuit of larger-than-life esthetics.
        ''The spectacular becomes a spectacular when it's so big you can't see it all,'' he said during the preparation of ''Manhattan Showboat'' in 1980. ''It needs touches of magic and the unexpected. We are always thinking about how to make things look bigger, yet in content the show has to be familiar territory for the audience, in its music, for instance.''
        Mr. Jani is survived by his wife, Joan Chapman, a daughter, Joy, and a son, Jeff, who has been acting chief executive officer of the Jani production company for the last five years.
      