
       John Hirsch, a director who staged plays at Lincoln Center and at the Stratford Festival of Canada, where he was artistic director for five years, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. He was 59 years old and lived in Toronto.
        John Hirsch, a director who staged plays at Lincoln Center and at the Stratford Festival of Canada, where he was artistic director for five years, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. He was 59 years old and lived in Toronto.
        Mr. Hirsch's work won plaudits in the United States and in Canada. For a while, he spent half his time in the United States. At Lincoln Center he staged ''Yerma,'' ''St. Joan,'' ''Beggar on Horseback,'' ''The Time of Your Life'' and ''Playboy of the Western World.''
        For the New York City Opera, Mr. Hirsch directed Verdi's ''Masked Ball.'' He staged the 1968 Broadway production of Joseph Heller's ''We Bombed in New Haven,'' which starred Jason Robards.
        He also directed in Minneapolis, San Diego, Tel Aviv, Montreal, Toronto and Winnipeg, where he grew up. With Tom Hendry, he was a founder of the Manitoba Theater Center, and he was the head of television drama for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation from 1974 to 1977. Appointed to Festival
        Mr. Hirsch was best known as the artistic director of the Stratford Festival, in Ontario. He was appointed in 1981 after a tumultuous period in the Shakespearean festival's history. The previous artistic director, Robin Phillips, a British actor and director, had resigned and the selection of a successor was complicated by demands that a Canadian be selected.
        The festival's board selected a four-member directorate to succeed Mr. Phillips, then secretly offered the job to John Dexter, a British director.
        Canadian Actors Equity Association went on strike, and the members of the directorate refused to work for Mr. Dexter, who in any case was denied a work permit by Canadian immigration authorities. The turmoil threatened the existence of the 28-year-old festival. 'Pulling the Deck Chairs Back'
        ''I came in in the middle of the sinking of the Titanic,'' Mr. Hirsch said in a 1982 interview. ''I have been pulling the deck chairs back, and running after the pots and pans swimming around and getting the motor going.''
        Mr. Hirsch was criticized for overspending at Stratford. But throughout his career he was praised for encouraging the development of Canadian theatrical talent.
        Mr. Hirsch was born in Siofok, Hungary. His mother, father and brother died in a German concentration camp during World War II. He arrived in Winnipeg at age 17.
        He is survived by his adoptive mother, Sybil Shack, of Winnipeg.
      