
       Edgar Kaufmann Jr., an architecture historian, curator and philanthropist who preserved his family's celebrated Frank Lloyd Wright-designed house, Fallingwater, as a public museum, died of leukemia yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Edgar Kaufmann Jr., an architecture historian, curator and philanthropist who preserved his family's celebrated Frank Lloyd Wright-designed house, Fallingwater, as a public museum, died of leukemia yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Fallingwater, which is generally considered to be one of the seminal works of 20th-century architecture, came into being as a direct result of Mr. Kaufmann's enthusiasm for the work of Frank Lloyd Wright. In 1934 Mr. Kaufmann, then 24, put aside a career as a painter to become an apprentice at Wright's Taliesin Fellowship. Mr. Kaufmann's father, the chief executive of Kaufmann's Department Stores in Pittsburgh, visited his son and decided to commission Wright to design a weekend house for a piece of land he owned beside a waterfall in Bear Run, Pa., near Pittsburgh. The result - a structure whose powerful horizontal planes cantilever dramatically over the waterfall - is perhaps the best-known house Frank Lloyd Wright ever designed.
        Although the younger Mr. Kaufmann never went to college, he became one of this country's leading scholars of architecture and design, and for many years was an adjunct professor of architecture and art history at Columbia University. A quiet man whose manner was soft but utterly firm, he served for several years as director of the department of industrial design at the Museum of Modern Art, where he organized numerous exhibitions on modern design. He was particularly interested in the relationship between serious design and everyday life, and took charge of the museum's series of exhibitions of household objects of high design quality. Studied Painting in Europe
        Mr. Kaufmann was born in Pittsburgh on April 9, 1910. After prep school, he studied painting in New York, Vienna, Florence and London, and returned to the United States in 1933. When he left Wright's Taliesin Fellowship in 1935, he joined the family business and eventually became merchandise manager for home furnishings. He left in 1940 to join the Museum of Modern Art, and served with the Army Air Forces from 1942 to 1946.
        In 1963 Mr. Kaufmann, who had inherited Fallingwater in 1955 when his father died, donated the house and its surrounding 1,750 acres, along with a $500,000 endowment, to the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy, a nonprofit trust. The conservancy, under the watchful eye of Mr. Kaufmann, has maintained the Wright house for the public ever since. It has been kept in its original condition; one of the few changes is a small visitors' pavilion -designed by Mr. Kaufmann's longtime colleague and companion, Paul Mayen - that was set discreetly in the woods in 1979 to handle the growing crowds, now estimated at roughly 70,000 per year.
        In 1970 Mr. Kaufmann organized ''The Rise of an American Architecture 1815-1915,'' a wide-ranging exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and in 1978 he became a founding director of the Architectural History Foundation, on whose editorial board he served until his death. He published numerous essays and books on architecture and design, including ''Fallingwater: A Frank Lloyd Wright Country House,'' published by Abbeville Press to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the house in 1986. At the time of his death he was completing ''9 Commentaries on Frank Lloyd Wright,'' which will be published this fall by the Architectural History Foundation and the M.I.T. Press.
        There are no survivors.
      