
       R. D. Laing, the British psychiatrist who broke with traditional psychotherapy and sought new treatments for schizophrenia based on a concern for the rights of mental patients, died suddenly yesterday while vacationing in France. He was 61 years old.
        R. D. Laing, the British psychiatrist who broke with traditional psychotherapy and sought new treatments for schizophrenia based on a concern for the rights of mental patients, died suddenly yesterday while vacationing in France. He was 61 years old.
        Dr. Laing collapsed and died while playing tennis in St. Tropez, said his daughter, Natascha Laing. He had lived in London.
        Dr. Laing - who was considered, at the least, unorthodox by many of his professional colleagues - believed that a mental hospital was no place to treat a schizophrenic. He suggested further that insanity might be a sane reaction to an insane world.
        It was Dr. Laing's contention that psychiatrists really did not know much about madness. He believed that much of the unalleviated misery he saw in his patients was caused by the psychiatric treatment itself and that no one had a reliable method of treating people who are severely disturbed. Break From Traditionalism
        Dr. Laing was the author of many books and articles about madness. His latest, ''The Making of a Psychiatrist,'' published in 1985, gave an account of the first 30 years of his life. He talked of his childhood, education, early training in psychiatry and observations, and the decisons that led him to break from traditional psychiatry.
        It was with his first book, ''The Divided Self,'' published in 1960, that launched his fame as a rebel. He subsequently became the leader of the English ''anti-psychiatry'' movement, a term he disclaimed.
        Dr. Laing stirred controversy among mental-health professionals by declaring, among other things, that the thinking processes of schizophrenics represented a comprehensive, even superior, mentality. In time, he became disenchanted with this approach and with many of his other early notions, such as his ''politics of madness,'' and he acknowledged that many of his own methods of treating schizophrenics had failed.
        ''I am not trying to justify myself, or prove that I am right,'' Dr. Laing wrote in ''The Making of a Psychiatrist.'' No Defense Necessary
        He shied away from defending himself against charges that early in his career he had idealized mental illness and romanticized despair. He said he later came to realize that society must do something with people who are too disruptive.
        ''If a violinist in an orchestra is out of tune and does not hear it, and does not believe it, and will not retire, and insists on taking his seat and playing at all rehearsals and concerts and ruining the music, what can be done?'' he asked.
        In trying to answer this question, Dr. Laing said he came to the realization that he would not like to be treated the way his own patients were treated. ''But what does one do, when one does not know what to do?'' he asked.
        Some of the treatments that horrified Dr. Laing were practices that were largely supplanted by drugs in the late 50's: insulin-induced convulsions and coma, lobotomies, electro-convulsive shock and the use of straitjackets. Felt Old Abuses Remained
        Yet he believed that the basic questions in the treatment, control and care of patients had not changed much. He argued that ''the snake pit'' still described abuses in some modern mental hospitals, and noted that drugs had not always been helpful to patients. And in 1985, along with some other psychiatrists, he noted that electroshock treatments, in modfied form, were again being used.
        Despite his radicalism, his early life and training were conventional. Ronald David Laing was born on Oct. 7, 1927 in Glasgow, Scotland, where he attended a state elementary school, and was graduated from Glasgow University in 1951 as a medical doctor.
        He worked as a psychiatrist in the British Army, taught and practiced in Glasgow for awhile, and then in the late 1950's was trained as a psychoanalyst at the Tavistock Institute in London, the British center of orthodox Freudian psychiatry. Use of LSD
        In the 1960's he began to emerge from that orthodoxy, becoming an outspoken critic of traditional approaches and beginning to experiment with the therapeutic use of mescaline and LSD. In London, he established a therapeutic community, Kingsley Hall, where patients, doctors and staffers lived and worked together democratically - without hierarchy and free of distinctions of rank or role.
        Among his initial theories, which he explained in ''The Divided Self'' and a later book, ''The Self and Others,'' was that schizophrenia was not, as had long been believed, rooted in some genetic aberration. Nor, he argued, was it the product of some biochemical event. He felt it arose when an individual found himself in a hopeless ''heads-I-win, tails-you-lose'' emotional situation, of a kind that can occur within a family. Finding such a situation intolerable, a boy or girl escapes this unbearable pain through schizophrenia.
        His other writings included ''Sanity, Madness and the Family,'' ''Reasons and Violence,'' ''Interpersonal Perception: A Theory and a Method of Research,'' ''The Politics of Experience'' and ''Knots.''
        Dr. Laing was survived by his wife, Margarita; three daughters - Natascha of London, and Fiona and Caron of Glasgow; six sons - Adrian, Paul, Adam, Benjamin, Max and Charles - all of London, and three grandchildren.
      