
       Robert Phelps, an editor, an author and a translator, died of cancer of the colon on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 66 years old and also had Parkinson's disease.
        Robert Phelps, an editor, an author and a translator, died of cancer of the colon on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 66 years old and also had Parkinson's disease.
        Mr. Phelps did much to introduce the work of the author Colette to Americans. He was also known for his editing of works by Jean Cocteau, the author and film maker.
        Mr. Phelps was the editor of the highly praised 1966 work ''Earthly Paradise: Colette's Autobiography Drawn From her Lifetime Writings.''
        ''This marvelous book, better than any biography could be, reveals her in her own words,'' Elizabeth Janeway wrote in The New York Times Book Review. ''By a miracle of tactful editing, Robert Phelps has put together, from her books and her letters, a record of her life; not just its events, but rather the interaction between her experience and the ceaseless flow of talent.''
        In 1970, Mr. Phelps compiled ''Professional Secrets: An Autobiography of Jean Cocteau. Drawn From His Lifetime Writings.'' A Resolve to Write
        In 1949, Mr. Phelps and John Balcomb founded Grove Press, which in 1950 published ''Selected Writings of the Ingenious Mrs. Aphra Behn,'' edited by Mr. Phelps. In 1951, Mr. Phelps wrote later, he sold the publishing house ''to Barney Rosset and resolved to live by my typewriter.''
        Mr. Phelps's 1958 novel, ''Heroes and Orators,'' was praised by Donald Barr in The New York Times Book Review for its ''meticulous observation and fine literary craftsmanship.''
        Mr. Phelps was also a co-author of ''The Literary Life: A Scrapbook Almanac of the Anglo-American Literary Scene from 1900 to 1950.''
        His more recent work included translating and editing ''Letters from Colette'' (1980). He also edited ''The Collected Stories of Colette'' (1983) and ''Flowers and Fruit'' (1986), a selection of Colette's writing about plants. Book to Be Published
        Farrar, Straus & Giroux plans to publish ''Following,'' a collection of personal writings by Mr. Phelps. The publishing house also plans to print ''Glenway Wescott's Journals,'' edited by Mr. Phelps, in the fall of 1990.
        Robert Phelps was born Nov. 16, 1922, in Elyria, Ohio, the son of George Phelps and the former Eugenie Wenger. He studied at Oberlin College and at the University of Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosemarie; a son, Roger, of Boston, and a granddaughter.
      