
       Leon Leonidoff, the producer of several hundred extravaganzas at the Radio City Music Hall from the day it opened until his retirement 42 years later, died Saturday in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 95 years old.
        Leon Leonidoff, the producer of several hundred extravaganzas at the Radio City Music Hall from the day it opened until his retirement 42 years later, died Saturday in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Leonidoff presented lavish festivals on the giant, mobile Music Hall stage, filling it with a full orchestra, choruses, the Rockettes and guest soloists in a dazzling assortment of costumes, sound and light effects.
        It was under him that the hall staged what has become the hardy perennials: ''The Glory of Easter'' and, particularly, the ''Nativity'' Christmas show, a staple since 1934 that includes a procession of live camels, sheep and elephants.
        Among the specialty themes Mr. Leonidoff devised were those devoted to countries (Italy, the Netherlands, Israel) and to institutions (the Red Cross, the Marine Corps, Mickey Mouse). Planned Hall's First Show
        Mr. Leonidoff arrived at the Radio City Music Hall in time to help plan the opening show there, Dec. 27, 1932, and two years later became senior producer. He became vice president and chief producer, and remained until his retirement in 1974. Under his guidance the stage shows became an inseparable partner to the feature films that had become a main attraction of the hall.
        In addition to his producing assignments at Radio City, Mr. Leonidoff also produced an ambitious musical pageant, ''American Jubilee,'' at the 1939-40 New York World's Fair, and a lavish ''aqua-stage spectacle'' called ''Wonder World'' at the fair in 1964-65.
        He manifested an intuitive performing-arts talent as a child in the Rumanian village of Bendery, where his father was a well-to-do Bessarabian grain dealer. Despite the shows he put on, his family directed him toward a career in medicine.
        At the University of Geneva, he joined the campus Dramatic Club, and when a Russian acting company, passing through, invited him to join, he left school. Later, he became a founder of the Isba Russe ballet company, which made its way to the Metropolitan Opera House in New York in 1920. He was an immediate success, and caught the attention of Samuel L. (Roxy) Rothafel, an impresario, who made him ballet director and then associate producer of the Capitol Theater. Worked at Roxy Theater
        From 1927 to 1932, Mr. Leonidoff directed stage shows at the Roxy Theater, and gained a reputation for quickly assembling big productions in short order, some 350 of them during his tenure there. In 1932, when he moved to Radio City Music Hall, he worked on an even larger scale, and his name on a production represented a warranty of grandeur. This was evident also at spectacles like Expo 67 and the Jones Beach Marine Theater, as well as in films (he directed a dance sequence in ''When You're in Love,'' a 1937 film starring Grace Moore).
        Mr. Leonidoff is survived by his wife, Madeleine; two daughters, Lonni Davis of North Palm Beach, Fla., and Lori Angelo of Hamden, Conn., and a son, Leon Jr. of Virginia Beach, Va., a commander in the Navy.
      