
       Representative Mickey Leland was eulogized today as a martyr for the cause of world hunger, and mourners were urged to honor his memory by carrying on his work.
        Representative Mickey Leland was eulogized today as a martyr for the cause of world hunger, and mourners were urged to honor his memory by carrying on his work.
        ''Mickey is gone, but his values and his work will live after him in our memory and in our commitment,'' Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House, said at a funeral Mass at St. Anne's Catholic Church.
        ''We can all do something by which to remember Mickey and to honor his life and work,'' Mr. Foley said. ''We can commit ourselves to reward and serve those values and commitments that marked Mickey's life and led to Mickey's death.'' Hundreds Are at Mass
        Mr. Leland, 44 years old, was killed with 15 others on Aug. 7 when their plane crashed in Ethiopia while carrying them to a camp for Sudanese refugees. A private burial is planned for the six-term Congressman when his remains are returned to Houston, probably in the next several days.
        Hundreds of people crowded under the ornate carved arches of the church today and hundreds more gathered outside as politicians and clergymen praised the Houston Democrat's work on behalf of the starving in Africa and elsewhere. The Mass followed a memorial service on Friday, which drew 5,000 people.
        Bishop Joseph Fiorenza of the Diocese of Galveston-Houston read a message delivered through the Vatican Embassy in Washington.
        Pope John Paul II, the message said, ''is well aware of Representative Leland's great humanitarian effort to relieve the starvation of the Sudanese refugees in Ethiopia.'' The Pope praised him for helping ''bring the plight of these unfortunate people to the world's attention.'' Eulogy From Jackson
        The service mixed the elements of a traditional Roman Catholic Mass with gospel singing and jazz. In a forceful eulogy, the Rev. Jesse Jackson gestured toward an empty coffin and said: ''Mickey is not in that box, just as Jesus was not in that tomb. And because Mickey is not in that box and because Jesus is not in that tomb, death has not freed us of the burden of Mickey's mission. The challenge that we have today is for those of us who remain to protect the integrity of Mickey's mission.''
      