
       Zhou Yang, a leading literary arbiter in the Communist Party for nearly 60 years and, in his later years, a champion of artistic freedom, died today. He was 81 years old.
        Zhou Yang, a leading literary arbiter in the Communist Party for nearly 60 years and, in his later years, a champion of artistic freedom, died today. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Zhou had been hospitalized for six years, the official New China News Agency said without specifying his ailment or the cause of death.
        It said top party officials, including a Politburo Standing Committee member, Li Ruihuan, visited the hospital to offer condolences to Mr. Zhou's family.
        From his youth as a leftist literary critic in wartime Shanghai, Mr. Zhou was a key player in the ideological battles that divided modern Chinese artists, like the purpose of art and whether it should serve the party. Grew to Favor Artistic Freedom
        He held various influential posts in the cultural field in the 1950's and early 1960's, including vice minister of culture. He was purged in 1966 at the onset of the far-leftist Cultural Revolution, as were most intellectuals. He was rehabilitated in 1977.
        In his youth, he came down on the side of strong party control, but as chairman of the state-sponsored China Federation of Literary and Art Circles from 1979 until this year, he advocated greater artistic freedom.
        In 1983, he aroused controversy with an essay, ''Alienation,'' in which he said it was possible for people in a socialist society to feel socially and politically alienated, and that socialist leaders could become alienated from the people they were to represent.
        Mr. Zhou also sided with those who maintained that literature should reflect the ordinary lives and emotions of human beings, rather than simply convey socialist lessons. 'I Have Betrayed the Party'
        He was harshly criticized when party conservatives mounted a campaign later that year against ''spiritual pollution,'' or bourgeois ideas. He was forced to write a public self-criticism in which he said his essay could have led people to lose confidence in the future of Communism.
        ''I have betrayed the party and the people's trust,'' Mr. Zhou said.
        He was restored to favor in 1984 when the party newspaper, the People's Daily, said that despite his mistakes, Mr. Zhou was ''an outstanding Marxist theoretician.''
        Over his long career, Mr. Zhou also took part in attacks on other intellectuals. He led a purge of the poet Hu Feng as a counterrevolutionary in 1955, and of the novelist Ding Ling as ''anti-party'' in 1957. In the 1930's, he fought bitterly with Lu Xun, China's most famous modern writer, over Mr. Lu's opposition to a party order that all writing take as its theme the national defense against the Japanese invasion.
        Mr. Zhou was born in 1907 in central China's Hunan province, under the name Zhou Qiying. He attended university in Shanghai, then the center of China's intellectual avante-garde, and later studied in Japan. He joined the party in 1932.
      