
       Former comrades remembered Huey P. Newton today as a ''minister from the street'' and a ''courageous prophet'' who fought tirelessly for the rights of blacks and the poor.
        Former comrades remembered Huey P. Newton today as a ''minister from the street'' and a ''courageous prophet'' who fought tirelessly for the rights of blacks and the poor.
        Hundreds of people had to be turned away as a crowd filled the 1,200-seat Allen Temple Baptist Church for the funeral of the co-founder of the Black Panthers, who was shot to death last week in a drug-ridden Oakland neighborhood. Among the mourners were Angela Davis and Bobby Seale.
        Inside, one speaker after another -many speakers were former members of the Black Panthers - called for the renewal of Dr. Newton's struggle. A power failure suddenly forced speakers to resort to a megaphone. But it also made everything seem more like a rally. Inspiration for Disenfranchised
        ''Not only black people, but thousands of other disenfranchised people around the world were inspired to stand up,'' said Jonina Abron, a former member who said the Panthers' platform ''is as relevant today as it was 23 years ago.''
        ''As long as there are homeless people, hungry people, as long as there are victims of racism and sexism, that spirit will live forever,'' said Ms. Abron, now managing editor of Black Scholar Magazine in Oakland.
        The police have said the killing was drug-related and have arrested Tyrone Robinson, who they say is a drug dealer. He was arraigned in Oakland Municipal Court and will plead on Tuesday. Homecoming as Temple Member
        Dr. Newton, who earned a Ph.D. degree in social philosophy at the University of California at Santa Cruz, was himself charged with murder several times, but never convicted. He was jailed and was fined for crimes like embezzlement and possession of weapons.
        ''We celebrate his homecoming not as a thug, not as a criminal, but as a member of the Allen Temple family,'' said the Rev. J. Alfred Smith Sr., pastor.
        The funeral drew about 50 former Panthers, including Mr. Seale, who co-founded the party with Dr. Newton in 1966; Elaine Brown, who headed the organization in the 1970's when Dr. Newton was hiding in Cuba after he was accused of killing a 17-year-old Oakland prostitute; and Johnny Spain, who served a prison term for a murder conviction now being appealed. But Oakland's Mayor Declines
        Representative Ronald V. Dellums, a California Democrat who says the Panthers paved the way for black politicians like himself, was on hand. Mayor Lionel Wilson of Oakland, who is one of this area's most prominent black politicians, declined to attend. He said of Dr. Newton in an interview today, ''His constant involvement in criminal activities involving violence deterred me from coming.''
        ''The Black Panther headquarters were down the street,'' Mr. Smith said in his eulogy. ''Do you think it's closed? It's not closed. Trust me, it will rise again.''
        Fred Hiestand, a lawyer for Dr. Newton, said of him, ''In dispersing the party he hoped to rest and recharge himself, to give life to something new in himself, something he never found.'' Drugs and a Powerful Example
        Instead, Dr. Newton spent many of his last years on drugs. Some people here today said his addiction should be taken as a spur to step up the fight against drugs.
      