
       Morris A. Shenker, a lawyer known for his defense of James R. Hoffa, the boss of the teamsters' union, in the 1960's died of pneumonia Tuesday at his daughter's house in Santa Monica, Calif., after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in St. Louis, Mo.
        Morris A. Shenker, a lawyer known for his defense of James R. Hoffa, the boss of the teamsters' union, in the 1960's died of pneumonia Tuesday at his daughter's house in Santa Monica, Calif., after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in St. Louis, Mo.
        Mr. Shenker, whom Life magazine once called the ''foremost lawyer for the mob in the U.S.,'' was the former head of the St. Louis Commission on Crime and Law Enforcement despite alleged business and personal ties with the gangsters who operated in the city.
        Because of his ties to the teamsters and other alleged mob connections, he was investigated by Nevada Gaming Commission and other official bodies. Despite state and Federal investigations, he was never indicted until this year, when a Federal grand jury accused him of conspiring to conceal hundreds of thousands of dollars from the Internal Revenue Service and from creditors from 1967 to 1973 while he was involved in bankruptcy proceedings. He denied the charges but because of failing health was unable to stand trial.
        Mr. Shenker arrived in St. Louis in 1922, a 15-year-old Jewish immigrant from Russia who was able to speak only a few words of English. He worked his way through law school at Washington University and went into practice in 1932.
        Over the next 20 years, he became a successful defense lawyer. He was also a fund-raiser for the Democratic Party, an acquaintance of Presidents and a lawyer for mobsters. He was a founder of Dismas House in St. Louis, a well-known rehabilitation center for ex-convicts, as well as one of the country's leading fund-raisers for Israel for many years.
        He was a part-owner of the Dunes Hotel and Casino, one of the most profitable businesses in Las Vegas. He stepped down as chairman in 1984 but remained a major shareholder until 1985, when the company went into bankruptcy.
        Besides his daughter, Patricia Ann Stoll, he is survived by a son, Morris A. Jr. of Las Vegas, Nev., and two grandchildren.
      