
       Paul Novick, a founder and longtime editor in chief of The Morning Freiheit, a left-wing Yiddish daily, died yesterday of congestive heart failure and kidney deficiency at Peekskill (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 97 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Croton-on-Hudson.
        Paul Novick, a founder and longtime editor in chief of The Morning Freiheit, a left-wing Yiddish daily, died yesterday of congestive heart failure and kidney deficiency at Peekskill (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 97 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Croton-on-Hudson.
        Mr. Novick, a pugnacious crusader, helped found the daily in 1922, was its first news editor and had been editor in chief from 1939 until it ceased publication last Sept. 11 because of soaring expenses, shrinking circulation and the deaths of longtime benefactors.
        In a final editorial, Mr. Novick bade farewell to a newspaper dedicated to ''fighting for a better life for the workers in the factories and shops and a better life style; a newspaper for the fostering of Yiddish culture and Yiddish cultural institutions and organizations.'' Disenchantment in 1956
        From the start, he wrote, The Freiheit (''Freedom'') was ''a militant workers' and people's newspaper, alongside the Communist Party membership.'' But in 1956, when Nikita S. Khrushchev disclosed Stalin's crimes, the daily began increasingly challenging Soviet policy, accusing the Kremlin of habitual anti-Semitism and deploring its intervention in Czechoslovakia and Afghanistan.
        As a result, the American Communist Party expelled Mr. Novick in 1972 after more than 50 years' membership, accusing him of openly serving ''United States imperialism'' and ''Jewish nationalism and Zionism.'' In reply, he affirmed his backing for democratic socialism and for the Soviet Union ''the way it was during the Lenin period, when Jewish culture flourished.''
        ''We are,'' Mr. Novick said, ''for detente and cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union.''
        He was born on Sept. 7, 1891, in Brest-Litovsk, Byelorussia, and was a staff member of newspapers in Minsk, Vilna, Warsaw and New York, where he wrote for The Jewish Forward until a split developed in the Yiddish Socialist Federation and he and some colleagues left to found The Freiheit.
        Survivors include Mr. Novick's wife, Shirley; a son, Allan, of Brooklyn; a niece, Paula Hirshhorn of Los Angeles, and a brother and nephew, both of Moscow.
        PAUL NOVICK IS DEAD
      