
       Frank J. DeFrancis, a prominent Washington lawyer who became a Maryland government official and a giant in the state's horse-racing industry, died of heart failure Friday at the Miami Heart Institute in Florida. He was 62 years old and lived in Clarksville, Md.
        Frank J. DeFrancis, a prominent Washington lawyer who became a Maryland government official and a giant in the state's horse-racing industry, died of heart failure Friday at the Miami Heart Institute in Florida. He was 62 years old and lived in Clarksville, Md.
        Mr. DeFrancis suffered a heart attack June 16 while traveling to Puerto Rico on business and was taken to the institute, where he remained until his death.
        Mr. DeFrancis, who had many business interests, pursued two major careers. From the early 1950's until 1980 he practiced law in Washington, specializing in international trade and representing American business concerns and foreign governments in various dealings. The other career was horse racing. Transformed a Bankrupt Track
        In 1980 he bought the bankrupt Freestate Raceway, a harness racing track in Laurel, Md. After struggling for two years to turn a profit, he persuaded the Maryland Legislature to cut the tax on harness bets from 6 percent to three-quarters of 1 percent. Freestate soon became profitable, and in 1983 Gov. Harry Hughes asked Mr. DeFrancis to become the state's Secretary of Economic and Community Development.
        In that post, he set about to lure new business to Maryland and succeeded, over the objection of local bankers, in persuading Citicorp to set up a credit-card processing plant in Hagerstown. The deal brought the state 1,000 jobs and a $20 million investment.
        After a year in state service Mr. DeFrancis resigned to become part owner of the thoroughbred track at Laurel, and later he and his partners, the brothers Robert T. Manfuso and John A. Manfuso Jr., acquired another thoroughbred track, Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore.
        At Laurel and at Pimlico, as at Freestate, which he subsequently sold, Mr. DeFrancis applied a formula of aggressive promotion and refurbishment. Before he came on the scene, racing in Maryland had been suffering from declining attendance and betting. Tracks in Pennsylvania and New Jersey were attracting better mounts and bigger crowds.
        Mr. DeFrancis reversed the trend by installing attractions like a movie theater with 12-foot screens and scores of smaller ones for patrons so they could watch other sports along with the races. Soon he was being given most of the credit for saving Maryland's racing industry. Counsel for West Germany
        Mr. DeFrancis, a native of Meriden, Conn., received bachelor's and law degrees from Georgetown University before opening a law practice in Washington. He became adept at arranging business deals and served a number of corporate clients, most prominently the Northrop Corporation. For more than 20 years he was legal counsel in Washington for the Government of West Germany. He also represented the Italian Embassy for a time.
        He was a consultant to Northrop in 1975 when the corporation came under fire for paying bribes to foreign politicians and military officers. Mr. DeFrancis was named in a report by Northrop's accountants, Ernst & Ernst, which said he had made cash payments to West Germans on the corporation's behalf and had helped set up a Swiss entity independent of Northrop to promote its sales abroad. In 1976 the Air Force refused to reimburse Northrop for $564,000 in fees paid to Mr. DeFrancis for his help in selling planes overseas.
        But although Northrop was eventually fined for bribery and other improper payments, Mr. DeFrancis was never charged with wrongdoing.
        He is survived by a son, Joseph, of Washington; a daughter, Karin, of Los Angeles, and three sisters, Rose Gandreau of Palos Verde, Calif., Louise Turner of Del Mar, Calif., and Jan Delsasso of Washington.
      