
       William J. Prater, a former official of the United Mine Workers serving life sentences for his role in the slayings of a union dissident and his family, died in his cell today, apparently of natural causes, officials said. He was 70 years old.
        William J. Prater, a former official of the United Mine Workers serving life sentences for his role in the slayings of a union dissident and his family, died in his cell today, apparently of natural causes, officials said. He was 70 years old.
        An inmate at the State Correctional Institution at Dallas, Mr. Prater was found dead at 6:10 A.M., a prison spokesman said. ''He had been in poor health for some time,'' said the spokesman, Roy VanWhy. Mr. Prater used a wheelchair since suffering a stroke in 1983.
        He was serving three consecutive life sentences for the murders. He had served 16 years in a Federal prison before being paroled on a civil rights conviction in the same case, but he was transferred to a Pennsylvania state prison in September 1988 to serve the life sentences imposed under state law. He was moved to Dallas later that year.
        The union dissident, Joseph A. Yablonski, 59 years old, was shot to death along with his wife, Margaret, 57, and their daughter, Charlotte, 25, at their home in Clarksville, in southwestern Pennsylvania, on New Year's Eve 1969. Earlier that month, Mr. Yablonski lost an election for union president.
        His opponent, the incumbent miners' union president, William A. (Tony) Boyle, was later convicted of ordering the killings. Mr. Boyle died in May 1985 while serving three life terms for the murders.
        Mr. Prater, formerly of LaFollette, Tenn., was accused of helping to plan the killings, and he later cooperated with prosecutors in Mr. Boyle's trial. Mr. Prater, a mid-level union official, was also charged with helping to gather $20,000 in union money to pay for the killings.
        Three men accused of carrying out the killings, Aubran Martin, Claude Vealey and Paul Gilly, were all convicted and sentenced to life in prison.
      