
       James M. Markham, the New York Times bureau chief in Paris, died there yesterday, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was 46 years old.
        James M. Markham, the New York Times bureau chief in Paris, died there yesterday, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was 46 years old.
        Mr. Markham was one of The Times's senior correspondents. Over the last two decades he served in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Western Europe before being named deputy foreign editor last month. He was due to leave France next month to take up his new post in New York.
        Police investigators said Mr. Markham was found dead at his home yesterday morning with a head wound. He was lying on his bed in a dressing gown, a hunting gun next to his body. No note was found.
        Mr. Markham spent most of his career as a foreign correspondent and had been with The Times since 1971.
        Before becoming the Times bureau chief in Paris in 1987, he had been bureau chief in two other European posts: Madrid, from 1976 to 1982, and Bonn, from 1982 to 1987. While stationed in Madrid he roved widely, covering revolutionary Iran and the Israeli invasion of southern Lebanon in 1978. Service in Beirut and Saigon
        He was bureau chief in Beirut in 1975 and 1976, covering the fighting in the civil war involving Muslim, Christian, Syrian and Palestinian factions. Earlier, from 1973 to 1975, he was the bureau chief in Saigon, traveling from there to report also from Laos, Thailand and Cambodia. In the course of his studies and travels Mr. Markham came to speak French, Italian, Spanish, German and Hindustani.
        In a message yesterday to The Times's staff, Max Frankel, the executive editor, said: ''We mourn the loss of a wise and perceptive correspondent. Jim distinguished himself on many continents and almost every day made The Times a better paper. Jim was also a good friend to many of us, a loyal colleague who in many ways personified the dignity and the values of our enterprise.''
        Mr. Markham's writing could sometimes be blunt. In 1978, in a reply to a letter contending that he lacked objectivity in writing about Palestinians, he wrote in The Times Book Review: ''I do not romanticize Palestinian gunmen, because I have seen too many of them. I have even had them stick guns at my head and threaten to kill me. But I have also met and talked with other Palestinians, and not all Palestinians are terrorists.''
        During his time in Vietnam, Mr. Markham was taken by the South Vietnamese police from a bus after he had visited a Vietcong-held area. He was then held for 39 hours, during which he was questioned by the police for six and a half hours. Notes and film that he was carrying were confiscated for a month. A Broad View of Europe
        In recent years he covered major diplomatic and political matters in Europe, including the changes in the European Community as it prepares for increased commercial and political unification by the end of 1992. His recent reporting from France included coverage of the French Revolution bicentennial last month.
        In a dispatch last year from Courtenay in central France, where economic pressures were putting many farmers out of business, he mused about the French character.
        ''Something deeper in the French imagination is touched by the threat hanging over the farmers,'' Mr. Markham wrote. ''La terre - the land - has the same, almost mystical associations for the French as the forest has for the Germans.''
        James Morris Markham 4th was born on March 7, 1943, in Washington, the son of James Morris Markham 3d and the former Mary Paul Rix. The family lived for a time in Milwaukee, then moved to Sussex County, N.J.
        Mr. Markham graduated with honors from the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., before entering Princeton, where he majored in European history and became an editorial writer for The Daily Princetonian. Princeton and Oxford
        Mr. Markham graduated magna cum laude in 1965 from Princeton, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow. He then studied for two years as a Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College of Oxford University.
        He worked for Time Magazine in New Delhi in the summer of 1966 and returned to the Indian capital in 1967, worked briefly again for Time and then joined the Associated Press bureau there, traveling widely on A.P. assignments in Burma, Afghanistan and elsewhere.
        Returning to the United States in 1969, he worked for the A.P. briefly in Newark, then served on its foreign desk in New York. In 1970 he was transferred to Lagos, Nigeria, where he was based as the A.P.'s West Africa correspondent.
        After joining The New York Times, he worked for two years on its metropolitan staff in New York and wrote about narcotics and the criminal justice system before being sent to Saigon.
        Mr. Markham is survived by his wife, the former Stephanie Reed of Intervale, N.H., whom he married in 1966; two children, Katharine and Samuel; his parents, who live in Moss Creek, S.C.; and a sister, Ellen Sybil Markham of Brooklyn.
      