
       Valentina Nicholaevna Sanina Schlee, the fashion designer known by her first name who made clothes for social and theater personalities in the 1920's through the 50's, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at her Manhattan home. She was 90 years old.
        Valentina Nicholaevna Sanina Schlee, the fashion designer known by her first name who made clothes for social and theater personalities in the 1920's through the 50's, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at her Manhattan home. She was 90 years old.
        Valentina was the widow of George Schlee, the financier who served as her business partner and as an adviser to Greta Garbo, who was one of Valentina's notable clients. Valentina's other clients included Katharine Hepburn, Mary Martin, Gloria Swanson and Gertrude Lawrence. A trip to Hollywood in the late 1930's brought her additional clients like Paulette Goddard, Rosalind Russell and Norma Shearer.
        Valentina was her own best publicist, wearing clothes with a bravado that made other women want to buy them. Her costumes for Judith Anderson in ''Come of Age'' in 1933 were better received than the play, which soon went off the boards. But the costumes established Valentina's reputation as a designer for the stage and brought her commissions to design for other plays, including ''Idiot's Delight'' and ''The Philadelphia Story.'' Lynn Fontanne, who played a Russian adventuress in ''Idiot's Delight,'' not only wore her clothes but also copied Valentina's speech and mannerisms.
        ''She made many wonderful clothes, but nobody looked as well in them as she did,'' said Bill Blass, who made some linen dresses for her in 1970. Valentina had closed her own business in the late 1950's. Prominent in Cafe Society
        Valentina was born in Kiev at the turn of the century and was studying drama in Kharkov when the Revolution broke out. She met her husband in the Sevastopol railroad station, she often recalled, when she was trying to escape with her family's jewels. He served as her protector as they fled the country.
        After the couple were married, they lived briefly in Athens, Rome and Paris until they came to the United States in 1923. They were prominent in New York cafe society, where Valentina stood out for her clothes and her style. When other women were wearing short skirts, she appeared in floor-length styles; when others wore low-neck dresses, she wore covered-up styles.
        In 1928, with her husband's support, she opened a shop on Madison Avenue stocked with 13 dresses from her own wardrobe. In the first year, sales totaled $90,000.
        Soon afterward, Valentina went to Paris to study the technical aspects of dressmaking. ''I only learned one thing and that was never copy,'' she said later.
        It was one of her many aphorisms, the best known of which is ''Mink is for football.'' She reportedly said that to a customer to whom she was trying to sell a sable coat and who confessed that she had just bought a mink. Later, she said, ''Ermine is for bathrobes.''
        Valentina said she always aimed for simplicity. ''Simplicity survives the changes of fashion,'' she said in the late 1940's. ''Women of chic are wearing now dresses they bought from me in 1936. Fit the century, forget the year.''
        She was known for her turbans and flowing dresses. Her clothes combined the intricacy of the bias cut of Vionnet with the graceful flow of styles by Alix Gres. Like those by the two French designers, all her clothes were made to order. She estimated that she dressed perhaps 2,000 women in her career. Her husband died in 1974.  She is survived by a nephew, Igor Kamlukin of Milwaukee, and two grand nieces, Nina Frantzen of Manhattan and Manya Drobnack of Seattle.
      