
       Albert A. Marks Jr., the chairman and executive producer of the Miss America Pageant for 25 years, died yesterday of complications from a heart attack on Sept. 11. Mr. Marks, who was 76 years old and lived in Margate City, N.J., died at Shore Memorial Hospital in Somers Point, N.J.
        Albert A. Marks Jr., the chairman and executive producer of the Miss America Pageant for 25 years, died yesterday of complications from a heart attack on Sept. 11. Mr. Marks, who was 76 years old and lived in Margate City, N.J., died at Shore Memorial Hospital in Somers Point, N.J.
        Mr. Marks presided over the pageant in a tumultuous era that included its transition from radio to television, the 1980 dismissal of its longtime master of ceremonies, Bert Parks, and the ouster of the 1984 queen, Vanessa Williams, because she had posed for nude photographs.
        Mr. Marks, who was not paid for his work on the pageant, was so closely identified with it that he was often referred to as ''Mr. Miss America.'' Leonard Horn, a lawyer who succeeded him as the pageant director in 1987, recalled him yesterday as a strong leader deeply devoted to Atlantic City, a maker of quick decisions who never looked back.
        In announcing the dismissal of Mr. Parks after 25 years of singing ''There She Is'' to moist-eyed beauty queens, Mr. Marks said Mr. Parks was aging, and it was time ''for a change of personality, age and image.'' 'The Whole Woman'
        As he recalled a Miss America crown for the first time in the pageant's 63-year history, Mr. Marks said, ''The pageant celebrates the whole woman, and its spirit is intrinsically inconsistent with calculated sexual exploitation.''
        Mr. Marks, who was an investment broker, joined the pageant in 1952, and his first assignment was to escort Marilyn Monroe to a parade float. ''She wasn't able to get onto the float because of her tight dress,'' he recalled last year, ''so I had to give her a push by the derriere to get her up.''
        Mr. Marks was a native of Philadelphia who attended Friends Central and Episcopal Academies, Williams College and the University of Pennsylvania. He was a senior vice president of the Advest Group, a brokerage in Northfield, N.J., and had been a president of the Chamber of Commerce of Atlantic City. He had held 15 other civic posts and was a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel.
        Surviving are his wife, Mary Kay; four sons, Albert Aubrey 3d of Chicago, Robert, of Mays Landing, N.J., John, of Loudonville, N.Y., and William, of Margate City; a daughter, Christina, of Corbin City, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      