
       Paul Gann, co-author of the Proposition 13 tax revolt referendum a decade ago in California, died yesterday in a Sacramento hospital from pneumonia, complicated by AIDS. He was 77 years old.
        Paul Gann, co-author of the Proposition 13 tax revolt referendum a decade ago in California, died yesterday in a Sacramento hospital from pneumonia, complicated by AIDS. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Gann developed acquired immune deficiency syndrome in 1987, five years after he received a blood transfusion in emergency heart surgery. Over the last few years he dedicated himself to the cause of AIDS treatment, expanding testing for the fatal disease and reporting its incidence.
        He had been under treatment for a broken hip in the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Sacramento since a fall at his Carmichael home on Sept. 2.
        In announcing that he had AIDS in 1987, Mr. Gann said he was not angry at the blood donor from whom he contracted the virus when he received 40 pints of blood. ''The person could have been perfectly innocent,'' Mr. Gann said.
        But Mr. Gann also said he believed that people who knowingly transmitted the disease should be strongly punished. ''They should be tried for murder, because if you give it to someone, it's a death sentence,'' he said. AIDS Referendum Fails
        His strong views on AIDS led him to sponsor another referendum, listed on the California ballot in 1986 as Proposition 102.
        Among its many provisions, the initiative, which was rejected by the voters, would have required doctors to report to state health officials the names and addresses of those carrying the AIDS virus or those they ''reasonably believe'' might be infected.
        Opponents feared that passage of the initiative would prompt discriminatory practices and would thus discourage infected people from seeking care.
        Many in the homosexual community viewed Mr. Gann as a vindictive man who was lashing out at carriers of the virus. Mr. Gann insisted that homosexuals, a high risk group for AIDS, should not take his crusade as an attack on themselves.
        ''I don't mind telling you I don't understand homosexuals and that's the truth,'' he said in an interview in October. ''I can't imagine a man going to bed with a man. That's beyond my comprehension. But I don't run around fighting gay people. I'm fighting AIDS. I would fight my own church choir if they were spreading a disease that would kill people.'' Formed Conservative Group
        Born in Arkansas, the son of a minister, Mr. Gann lived in Texas for a time before moving to the Sacramento area, where he worked in real estate and automobile sales.
        He entered politics in 1974 by forming a conservative citizen group called People's Advocate.
        He was the 1980 Republican challenger in the United States Senate race. Although he lost his only bid for elective office to Senator Alan Cranston, the Democratic incumbent, he remained in the political arena with a series of petition campaigns intended, he said, ''to get the Government off the backs of both working people and businessmen.''
        Mr. Gann championed Proposition 13 with Howard Jarvis, who died in 1986 at the age of 82. California voters approved the measure by a vote of almost 2 to 1. The proposition, named the Jarvis-Gann Amendment, had the effect of cutting Californa's property taxes in half and gave rise to similar tax revolt measures across the nation.
        Gov. George Deukmejian of California called Mr. Gann ''a tireless crusader on behalf of lower taxes, fiscal responsibility and good government'' and added that he and Mr. Jarvis ''will be remembered for leading the modern-day version of the Boston Tea Party.'' Spending Hits 'Gann Limits'
        The year after the Proposition 13 victory, Mr. Gann successfully sponsored another voter petition drive, this one setting s government spending limits. The measure has emerged in recent years as potentially even more far-reaching as the state and hundreds of California local governments are forced to restrict spending when they hit ''Gann Limits.''
        Mr. Gann moved to California in 1935, where he and his wife, Nell, reared their four children in Carmichael, a Sacramento suburb.
        Mr. Gann is survived by his wife; four children, Polly, Richard, Linda and Jody; 11 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      