
       Dr. Allan M. Sachs, former chairman of Columbia University's physics department, died of a heart attack Wednesday while playing tennis at a tennis club in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 68 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
        Dr. Allan M. Sachs, former chairman of Columbia University's physics department, died of a heart attack Wednesday while playing tennis at a tennis club in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 68 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
        Dr. Sachs, chairman of the department from 1967 to 1971, taught a number of students who went on to become leaders and Nobel laureates in physics. He had also been associate director of Columbia's Nevis Laboratories in Irvington, N.Y. Since 1968, he directed the science honors program at Columbia for gifted high school students from the metropolitan area. The program was a model for those at other research universities.
        Dr. Sachs was awarded Columbia's Great Teacher Award in 1977. In the 1950's he collaborated with Jack Steinberger - a co-winner of the Nobel Prize for physics last year - on early experiments in measuring the fundamental properties of subatomic particles.
        In the early 1960's Dr. Sachs worked with John Peoples, a student at the time who is now director of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Batavia, Ill. The work provided evidence to support theories of weak interaction between subatomic particles.
        ''Nevis was a very vibrant place, and Allan was one of the people who helped make it so,'' Dr. Peoples said yesterday. ''He helped me learn how to build instruments and check measurements, and he came by every evening to see what I was doing and make suggestions. That feedback is very important to a thesis student just getting started.''
        A native New Yorker, Dr. Sachs was a graduate of Harvard in 1942, where he earned a master's degree in 1947 and a doctorate in 1950. He was chairman of the Columbia University Senate from 1971 to 1975 and was a National Science Foundation senior postdoctoral fellow twice.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Judith Morrison; two daughters, Carolyn and Marjorie, both of Manhattan; a son, George, of Boston; a sister, Marjorie Redman of Seattle, and a grandson.
      