
       Tom Blackaller, who competed in three America's Cup campaigns and was one of yacht racing's most colorful and outspoken helmsmen, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Angel of the Valley Hospital in Napa, Calif. He was 49 years old and lived in Sausalito, Calif.
        Tom Blackaller, who competed in three America's Cup campaigns and was one of yacht racing's most colorful and outspoken helmsmen, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Angel of the Valley Hospital in Napa, Calif. He was 49 years old and lived in Sausalito, Calif.
        Although he was always quick to say that yachting was his favorite sport, Mr. Blackaller also raced cars, and he was test-driving a sports car at the Sears Point Raceway near San Francisco when he complained of pains in his chest late yesterday morning. A helicopter took Mr. Blackaller to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
        He was born in Seattle, and moved to the San Francisco Bay area as a child. Mr. Blackaller, who sailed since the age of 10, was a familiar figure in California yacht-racing circles. Star Class Winner
        In 1974 and 1980 he won the Star Class world championship. He also competed internationally in 6-Meter boats. But his fame in yachting grew largely through his America's Cup campaigns.
        Mr. Blackaller joined his first cup syndicate in 1980 as tactician for the Clipper syndicate. In 1983, he was skipper of the 12-Meter Defender. In both campaigns, Mr. Blackaller's yachts lost in the trial races, which determine the American defender of the America's Cup.
        In 1986, Mr. Blackaller was skipper of USA, one of seven United States yachts that challenged Australia for the America's Cup. Dennis Conner, Mr. Blackaller's longtime sailing rival, beat USA in the semifinal races. Mr. Conner went on to win the America's Cup in early 1987 with the 12-Meter yacht Stars & Stripes. 'Always His Own Man'
        ''Tom was a character unlike the rest,'' Buddy Melges, another former America's Cup skipper, said yesterday. ''He was always fair and true blue, and always his own man.''
        More recently, Mr. Blackaller had turned to multihull sailing. He was scheduled to compete in the ProSail series this weekend in San Francisco.
        Mr. Blackaller worked as a sailmaker and managed the North Loft in San Francisco in 1973-80 and North Sails West in 1980-85. He was a member of the St. Francis Yacht Club of San Francisco.
        He is survived by his wife, Christine; two daughters, Lisa and Brooke, both of San Francisco; his father, Thomas Sr. of Berkeley, Calif., and two sisters, Nancy Hardie of Kirkland, Wash., and Lois Wolfe of Santa Cruz, Calif.
      