
       Dr. William McD. Hammon, a public-health physician and medical missionary who conducted research into polio and tropical diseases, died Tuesday at his home in Seminole, Fla., where he had lived in retirement since 1973. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. William McD. Hammon, a public-health physician and medical missionary who conducted research into polio and tropical diseases, died Tuesday at his home in Seminole, Fla., where he had lived in retirement since 1973. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Hammon played an important part in the long fight against polio that culminated in the perfection of the Salk vaccine in the 1950's. His experiments with gamma globulin, a component of human blood that proved useful in preventing polio, were a precursor to the development of the vaccine by Dr. Jonas E. Salk, with whom he was a close collaborator.
        In 1951 and 1952 Dr. Hammon conducted widespread testing of gamma globulin in polio epidemic areas, financed by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, that demonstrated temporary immunity from the disease. #4 Years in the Congo Earlier he had traveled widely in Asia to study tropical diseases for the United States Public Health Service, the National Institutes of Health and the Army.
        Dr. Hammon, a native of Columbus, Ohio, left college in his early 20's to spend four years in the Belgian Congo as director of a medical dispensary. He returned to graduate from Allegheny College in 1932 and to receive his medical degree in 1936 from Harvard.
        After further schooling in public health, he went to the University of California in 1940, where he rose to become dean of the School of Public Health in 1946.
        In World War II he was a consultant to the Army Surgeon General, and in 1946 he was appointed to the Tropical Diseases Commission, serving in Japan, Korea and China.
        In 1950 Dr. Hammon became head of the department of epidemiology and microbiology at the University of Pittsburgh's Graduate School of Public Health, where he remained until his retirement in 1973. Dr. Salk was a colleague there. Crucial Tests in 3 Cities
        In 1951 he directed the crucial tests in three cities - Houston; Sioux City, Iowa, and Provo, Utah - that demonstrated the effectiveness of gamma globulin in reducing the chances of children's contracting polio.
        Gamma globulin injections were hailed as a breakthrough in the war against polio. But Dr. Hammon cautioned against overrating the treatment, pointing out that its protection was only temporary. A few years later the Salk vaccine, which he helped to perfect, provided more lasting protection.
        Dr. Hammon served as president of several medical and scientific societies and was a consultant to the World Health Organization. He received the Army's Outstanding Civilian Service Award in 1973.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; a son, William Jr. of Honolulu; a daughter, Barbara Leitholf of Pittsburgh, and five grandchildren.
      