
       Truett Banks (Rip) Sewell, the former Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher who delighted baseball fans with his ''eephus'' pitch and later in his life inspired others by remaining active after losing both legs, died of pneumonia and kidney failure Sunday. He was 82 years old.
        Truett Banks (Rip) Sewell, the former Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher who delighted baseball fans with his ''eephus'' pitch and later in his life inspired others by remaining active after losing both legs, died of pneumonia and kidney failure Sunday. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Sewell, a right-handed pitcher, broke into the major leagues with Detroit in 1932, appearing in five games in relief. He returned to the minors until 1938, when he joined the Pirates, with whom he stayed until he retired in 1949. He had a 143-97 career record, including a National League-leading 21 victories in 1943.
        Mr. Sewell, who was born in Decatur, Ala., on May 11, 1907, also won 21 games in 1944 and pitched in eight All-Star Games, the most memorable in 1946. In that game, Ted Williams hit a three-run homer off the ''eephus,'' an arching blooper pitch that reached a height of 25 feet before coming straight down toward the plate.
        Williams, who before the game had asked Sewell if he would throw the blooper, was the only player to hit a home run off the pitch. 'Throw That Blooper'
        Sewell wasn't expected to pitch because of an elbow injury, but with the American League leading by 9-0, the National League's manager, Charlie Grimm, asked the right-hander to warm up ''and throw that blooper pitch and see if you can wake up this crowd.''
        With two runners on and Williams shaking his head in a ''don't do it'' appeal and Sewell nodding to signal, ''Yes, I am.'' Sewell worked the count to two balls and one strike with two bloopers and a fastball. Williams then hit what Sewell described as a ''Sunday Super Dooper Blooper'' into the right-field bullpen.
        Mr. Sewell, who never made more than $21,500 per year, was instrumental in the formation of baseball's pension fund. On a train ride to Boston for the 1946 All-Star Game, he and Marty Marion, the St. Louis shortstop, devised the formula to use receipts from All-Star Games to help retired players. Avid Golfer
        Mr. Sewell remained active as he grew older, despite declining health. He was an avid golfer even after both legs were amputated below the knees in 1972 because of a circulation problem stemming from a 1941 hunting accident.
        Funeral services will be Wednesday here at the First Baptist Church. Survivors include his wife, Margaret, two sons, a daughter, nine grandchildren, one great-grandchild and two sisters.
      