
       Archbishop Tiran Nersoyan, a former Primate of the Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America, died of cancer early Friday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in New York City.
        Archbishop Tiran Nersoyan, a former Primate of the Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America, died of cancer early Friday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in New York City.
        Archbishop Nersoyan was elected Primate in 1943. During his 10 years in office, 11 new churches were established, 21 priests were added to the clergy, a youth organization was formed and a choir association was created.
        Under his direction, land was purchased for St. Vartan Cathedral and Cultural Center in Manhattan. As head of the construction project, he said the cathedral at Second Avenue and 34th Street would be a place of worship ''where the mystic beauty of our church rites can be adequately expressed.''
        The Primate was also a founder of the St. Nersess Seminary in New Rochelle, N.Y., and served as its dean. Wrote Theological Studies
        A religious scholar, Archbishop Nersoyan lectured extensively and wrote articles and theological studies in Armenian and English. The fifth edition of his translation and commentary of the ''Divine Liturgy of the Armenian Church'' was published in London in 1984.
        Archbishop Nersoyan, a naturalized United States citizen, was elected Armenian Patriarch of Jerusalem in 1957. But his tenure ended abruptly in August 1958, when he was deported from Jordan.
        In 1956, the Jordanian Government had issued a decree ordering his deportation for enagaging in politics and ''maintaining relations'' with Soviet Armenia, but the ruling was overturned by the Jordanian Supreme Court. A new deportation ruling was issued two years later, but no reason for it was made public.
        Archbishop Nersoyan's supporters charged that the Jordanian authorities had been influenced by his rival in the church, Archbishop Yegishe Derderian, who succeeded him as Patriarch.
        At the time of the original deportation order, a spokesman for the Archbishop said all senior Armenian clergymen should have some relations with the church's Holy See at Echmiadzin in Soviet Armenia, ''just as Roman Catholic Bishops maintain relations with the Vatican.'' Believed in World Unity
        Archbishop Nersoyan believed in world unity. In a sermon at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in 1946, he said that people in ever-increasing numbers were coming to realize that ''absolute sovereignty'' exercised by nations resulted only in ''wars, enslavement and bondage.''
        The Archbishop was born on Aug. 23, 1904, in Aintab, Cilicia, in southern Turkey. His family emigrated to Syria in 1915 during the massacres and deportations of Armenians by the Ottoman rulers.
        In 1921, he entered the Seminary at Jerusalem, becoming a deacon in 1926. He was ordained a priest in 1928.  In December 1939, he was named pastor of the Armenian community in London, where he served during most of the war. He also acted as chaplain for Armenian men and women in the Allied forces.
        He came to the United States in late 1944, after the Diocesan Assembly elected him as Primate of North America. He was ordained a Bishop in 1945.
        He is survived by two sisters, Mariam Jebjian of Fort Lee, N.J., and Teshkhouyn Nersoyan of Aleppo, Syria, and a brother, Hagop, of Dayton, Ohio.
      