
       Bill Barron, a saxophonist, composer and professor of music at Wesleyan University, died of cancer Thursday in Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 62 years old and lived in Middletown.
        Bill Barron, a saxophonist, composer and professor of music at Wesleyan University, died of cancer Thursday in Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 62 years old and lived in Middletown.
        In his more than 40-year career, through his tenor and soprano saxophone playing and his teaching, he became a significant jazz influence.
        In 1984, Broadcast Music Inc. presented Mr. Barron with its Pioneer of Jazz Award.
        Mr. Barron, born William Barron Jr., was one of several prominent tenor saxophone players from Philadelphia, including Benny Golson, Archie Shepp, John Coltrane and Jimmy Heath. A music critic for The New York Times, Robert Palmer, wrote in 1986 that Mr. Barron was ''one of the very best of these.'' Toured at 17
        In an interview that year, Mr. Barron said, ''The thing about coming up in Philly is that all the fellows used to get together quite often. I remember always going over to somebody's apartment or somebody's brother's place, with people like Johnny Coles, Ray Bryant, Jimmy Heath and Calvin Massey, and we'd compare notes.''
        In the 1970's and 80's Mr. Barron played New York clubs, often with his younger brother, Kenny Barron, a pianist.
        The piano was Mr. Barron's first instrument. He began studying it at 9 under his mother's tutelage. When he was 13, he switched to soprano saxophone, then tenor. At 17 he toured with the Carolina Cotton Pickers.
        He came to New York in 1958 and performed with Philly Joe Jones, Ted Curson and Cecil Taylor. Jazz Workshop Director
        From 1968 to 1974 he directed the Jazz Workshop at Brooklyn's Bedford-Lincoln Neighborhood Museum. After receiving his doctorate at the University of Massachusetts in 1975, he joined the faculty of Wesleyan University where he directed African-American music and was a chairman of the music department.
        Recordings that trace the evolution of Mr. Barron's music are ''The Next Plateau'' (1989), ''Variations in Blue'' (1985), ''Jazz Caper'' (1982), and the earlier works, ''Tenor Stylings of Bill Barron,'' ''Motivation'' and ''The Hot Line,'' with Booker Ervin.
        In addition to his brother, Kenny, who teaches at Rutgers University, Mr. Barron is survived by his wife, Anna Ankar Barron; his daughters, Wanda Jones of Freeport, L.I., and Jennifer M. Barron of Middletown; his mother, Rella Barron of North Philadelphia; another brother, Herbert, and two sisters, Barbara Jones and Frances Smith, all of Philadelphia.
        A memorial service will be at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in Manhattan on a date to be announced.
      