
       Don Walker, a musician who did the orchestration for dozens of Broadway shows, died yesterday at Mercer Medical Center in Trenton after a long illness. He was 81 years old and lived in New Hope, Pa.
        Don Walker, a musician who did the orchestration for dozens of Broadway shows, died yesterday at Mercer Medical Center in Trenton after a long illness. He was 81 years old and lived in New Hope, Pa.
        Among the more than 90 shows that made the transition from the composer's melodies to full-blown orchestral instrumentation under Mr. Walker's ministrations were ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' ''Call Me Madam,'' ''Damn Yankees,'' ''Shenandoah,'' ''Silk Stockings,'' ''What Makes Sammy Run,'' ''By Jupiter,'' ''Finian's Rainbow,'' ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,'' ''Most Happy Fella,'' and ''The Music Man.''
        Mr. Walker was regarded as a versatile arranger who studied Greek instruments to attain the proper atmosphere for ''Zorba'' and who could also find exactly the right Viennese ambience for ''She Loves Me.'' In a review of ''Greenwillow,'' a 1960 musical with a score by Frank Loesser, Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote, ''Note that the overture, orchestrated by Don Walker, does not blast you out of your seat with a crash of sound; it invites you to enjoy a humorous fairy story. In every respect, including the singing, the music is characterized by taste.'' Earned Nonstop Royalties
        According to his agent, Brett Adams, Mr. Walker was one of the first arrangers who earned a continuous royalty from the shows he worked on. In addition to his theater work, Mr. Walker was a leading arranger for the popular band Fred Waring's Pennsylvanians, and at one time served as conductor for the television show ''Your Hit Parade.''
        He was also a composer and lyricist in his own right. In 1945 he adapted Gilbert and Sullivan's ''H.M.S. Pinafore'' into a musical called ''Memphis Bound,'' which starred Bill Robinson and an all-black cast.
        Mr. Walker was born in Lambertville, N.J. He attended the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and began his professional musical career by orchestrating operettas.
        He is survived by his wife, Audrey; a daughter, Anne Liebgold, and a son, David, all of New Hope.
      