
       Sir Ronald Syme, an Oxford historian and eminent scholar of classical Rome, died Monday, the university said Tuesday. He was 86 years old.
        Sir Ronald Syme, an Oxford historian and eminent scholar of classical Rome, died Monday, the university said Tuesday. He was 86 years old.
        Dr. Martin Francis, secretary of the governing body of Oxford's Wolfson College, where Sir Ronald had lived since 1975, said he died at an Oxford hospital he entered last week. The hospital did not give the cause of death.
        ''He was probably the most eminent classicist of this century,'' Dr. Francis said. In a 1983 anthology of modern thinkers, Kirsti Simonsuuri, senior research fellow at the University of Helsinki, wrote that Sir Ronald's ''grasp of the language and concepts used in Roman society, combined with his style, has made him the foremost scholar of Roman historiography.''
        Instead of focusing on the ideals and constitutional structure of the Roman emperors as his predecessors had, Sir Ronald focused on the lust for power and money that motivated their careers, comparing them to European dictators in the 1930's. Retired in 1970
        He introduced the theories in his first and most famous book, ''The Roman Revolution,'' published in 1939.
        Although he retired in 1970 after 21 years as Oxford's Camden Professor of Ancient History, Sir Ronald continued to work until his death, Dr. Francis said.
        His last book, ''The Augustan Aristocracy,'' was published in 1986. Of his later works, a two-volume study of the Emperor Tacitus, published in 1958, was generally seen as his masterpiece.
        He was knighted in 1959. In 1976, he was awarded the Order of Merit, Britain's most desired civil distinction, limited to intellectuals and scientists.
        Sir Ronald, a bachelor, was not known to have any immediate survivors.
        Correction:  September 8, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary by The Associated Press yesterday about Sir Ronald Syme, a historian of classical Rome, misidentified Tacitus. He was a Roman historian, not an emperor.
      