
       Walter James Dunfey, a former hotel chain co-owner who was politically active in New England and a financial supporter of Democractic Party causes, died today at Massachusetts General Hospital of complications from a brain aneurysm. He was 57 years old.  Mr. Dunfey, who lived in Rye, N.H., was a co-founder and the director of Dunfey Hotels, which he helped build into an international hotel company.
        Walter James Dunfey, a former hotel chain co-owner who was politically active in New England and a financial supporter of Democractic Party causes, died today at Massachusetts General Hospital of complications from a brain aneurysm. He was 57 years old.  Mr. Dunfey, who lived in Rye, N.H., was a co-founder and the director of Dunfey Hotels, which he helped build into an international hotel company. He sold it in 1974 and it is now known as Omni Hotels.
        It was from Mr. Dunfey's office at the Carpenter Hotel in Manchester, N.H., that John F. Kennedy began his Presidential campaign in 1960.
        Mr. Dunfey, along with four of his brothers, founded the New England Circle, which provides a forum for speakers to debate a wide range of social and political issues. Active on National Level
        Mr. Dunfey had been active for many years in Democratic politics at the national, regional and local levels. He was a member of the Democratic National Committee Business Council, as well as of the convention site selection committee. He was also regarded as a major party fund-raiser in New England.
        In December 1987, Mr. Dunfey formed a venture capital ment company with four of his brothers, the Dunfey Brothers Capital Group.
        He remained active in the hotel industry throughout the years, and most recently had been involved with Ashford Castle, Dromoland Castle and the Hotel Skellig in Ireland.
        Born in Lowell, Mass., in 1932, one of 12 children of Leroy W. and Catherine Manning Dunfey, Mr. Dunfey attended St. Patrick's School and Keith Academy in Lowell and the University of New Hampshire in Durham.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara Reynolds Dunfey, also of Rye; a daughter, Debora Dunfey Grabill, of Hanover, N.H., and three sons, Walter J. Dunfey 2d, of Portsmouth, N.H., Patrick C. Dunfey, of Hanover, N.H., and Daniel M. Dunfey, of Rumney, N.H.; his brothers Paul J. Dunfey of Lowell, Mass., William (Bud) Dunfey of Rye, N.H., Richard Dunfey of Stratham, N.H., John P. Dunfey of Portsmouth, N.H., Robert J. Dunfey of Cape Elizabeth, Me., and Jerald F. Dunfey of Boston; three sisters, Catherine M. Dunfey of Rye, N.H., Eileen Robertson of Hampton, N.H., and Eleanor Freiburger of Manchester, N.H., and six grandchildren.
      