
       Georges Simenon, the masterly Belgian novelist whose Inspector Maigret mysteries and many other highly regarded works made him one of the most widely published authors of the century, died in his sleep Monday night at his home in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 86 years old and had been in declining health for several years.
        Georges Simenon, the masterly Belgian novelist whose Inspector Maigret mysteries and many other highly regarded works made him one of the most widely published authors of the century, died in his sleep Monday night at his home in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 86 years old and had been in declining health for several years.
        His death was announced yesterday in Lausanne, where he also maintained an office.
        Mr. Simenon, who could produce a novel in 10 days or so, wrote 84 Maigret adventures and 136 other novels under his own name, and some 200 novellas under 17 pseudonyms early in his career.
        Many of his critically acclaimed novels were outside the detective genre - what he called ''non-Maigrets.'' His writing was particularly praised for its psychological insights.
        ''Simenon was a joy to work with; he was a rational man,'' his longtime American publisher, Helen Wolff, said yesterday.
        Mrs. Wolff, more than anyone, helped popularize Mr. Simenon's work in the United States, through books published under her imprint for Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.
        She said there was a large backlog of his books unpublished in English in the United States.
        ''We try to bring out two Maigrets and two non-Maigrets - his psychological novels - every year,'' Mrs. Wolff said. ''I think it's safe to say that there will be new Simenons translated for American readers well into the turn of the century.''
        Mr. Simenon's romans policiers were far removed from the Mickey Spillane type of suspense story, and he eschewed the intricate problems and ingenious deductions employed by many detective-story writers. His French sleuth Maigret was neither brilliant nor eccentric - like Sherlock Holmes and Hercule Poirot - nor an unlikely sleuth, like G. K. Chesterton's fictional priest, Father Brown.
        Rather, Maigret was an ordinary man, domestic, happily married, fond of a pipe and a glass of wine. In working on a case, he absorbed all the information he could, then pondered it until he arrived at a solution, relying chiefly on his knowledge of human nature.
        Even while tracking a murderer in Paris - and Mr. Simenon's knowledge of the streets of the city showed an intimacy that his readers could follow almost like a guidebook - Inspector Maigret never forgot his own Gallic comforts. During a day's work in the field, he would stop at a cafe for a cold beer or a vin blanc. When he returned to his home on the Boulevard Richard-Lenoir, near the Bastille, his loyal wife would have a copious hot meal waiting for him, no matter what the hour. Physical Comfort, Mental Work
        As Mr. Simenon described him in one of his books, ''Maigret and the Fortuneteller: ''While his physical being reveled luxuriously in the delights of good food, his mind, detached from his surroundings, worked at a feverish pace.''
        Often, Maigret would arrest a criminal with regret; it was his job. Such touches made the inspector understandable and sympathetic to readers in countries far from France.
        The writer believed there were no criminals, only men. In a 1976 interview in Switzerland for The New York Times, he said that because of his own touch of anarchy, he sometimes allowed one of Maigret's criminals to escape.
        But he added, ''I'm not an activist myself. I am bashful and don't like to give advice, but I think that people who take to the streets are sometimes necessary . . . I know something about psychiatry. My best friends are not writers but psychiatrists from around Lausanne. We talk about motivations. I don't consider any man responsible for his acts any more than those birds outside the window.''
        Mr. Simenon liked to keep his novels relatively short and focused on few characters. He wrote in a terse French, with much skill at using few words to describe things seen or felt.
        ''I consider myself an impressionist,'' he once said, ''because I work by little touches. I believe a ray of sun on a nose is as important as a deep thought.'' 'The Gift of Narration'
        Appraising Mr. Simenon's fiction, the author Thornton Wilder once wrote: ''The gift of narration is the rarest of all gifts in the 20th century. Georges Simenon has that to the tips of his fingers.''
        Over the years, Mr. Simenon's work was made into more than a dozen movies and numerous television dramas. The films based on his work include ''The Man on the Eiffel Tower'' (1950), starring Charles Laughton; ''Paris Express'' (1953), starring Claude Rains; ''A Life in the Balance'' (1955), starring Ricardo Montalban, and ''Inspector Maigret'' (1958), with Jean Gabin in the title role.
        Mr. Simenon also wrote more than a score of journals, reflections and reminiscences, including a best-selling autobiography, ''Memoires Intimes'' (1981), which was published in the United States in 1984 as ''Intimate Memoirs.'' He also found time to write more than 1,000 articles and short stories.
        According to Mrs. Wolff, more than 600 million copies of books by Mr. Simenon have been sold around the world. She said his works had been translated into 47 languages and published in 40 countries. An Immediate Success
        The first Maigret was written in 1929, and Mr. Simenon began turning out others with characteristic speed. The inspector's exploits were soon being read all over Europe, and new Maigrets kept appearing for five decades.
        Many of Mr. Simenon's characters were lashed by compulsions of one kind or another. As for himself, Mr. Simenon freely admitted that he was driven by a compulsion to work, secluding himself for days while the words poured out of him, afterward feeling emotionally and physically drained, but soon needing to plunge into more writing.
        ''When my doctor sees me unhappy,'' he once said, ''he asks me when I finished my last book. And when I say, 'Six weeks ago,' he says, 'Then I have one thing only to prescribe: Start a novel.' ''
        Other compulsions ruled his life as well. For many years he was a tireless philanderer, and he provoked varied responses by saying so in ''Intimate Memoirs.'' The author Mavis Gallant noted in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Simenon, ''trying to account for his two wrecked marriages and his numerous affairs and thousand-and-one casual encounters (most of his partners were paid),'' had written: ''The goal of my endless quest, after all, was not a woman, but 'the' woman, the real one, loving and maternal at the same time, without artifices.''
        She observed acidly: ''A man who reckons his women like a grocery list usually does not know what he wants. Simenon, at least, has a formula.'' In 1983, Mr. Simenon told an interviewer that at the age of 13 he had become ''hungry for all women.'' But he said that for 20 years he had been faithful to the woman he loved, a Venetian named Teresa who had joined his household originally as a maid. She was living with him at the time of his death. ' Life as a Rover
        Another compulsion made him something of a nomad: he lived in more than 30 residences during his life because, he told an interviewer, again and again he would get a feeling of emptiness, look at his surroundings, ask himself, ''Why am I here?'' and move on. In the 1940's and 1950's, he spent 10 years in the United States, living for a time in Connecticut, Florida, California and Arizona.
        But he changed as he grew older, and grew more content to stay in the Lausanne area. From 1963 until he announced his retirement in 1973 because of ill health, he lived on a hilltop in Epalinges, Switzerland, above Lausanne. The starkly white 26-room house (with 21 telephones) was designed by the writer and had its own power plant and mammoth indoor swimming pool.
        To prepare for writing a new novel, Mr. Simenon sometimes drafted a list of characters over a period of as much as three months, noting their ages, addresses and telephone numbers as well as a map of their prospective travels.
        In his early years, Mr. Simenon liked to do his writing with an array of sharpened pencils on his desk - ready to be worn down and discarded as he churned out page after page - and sheltered from interruptions by a ''Do Not Disturb'' sign on his study door.
        ''I write a chapter a day,'' he once said. ''It's the character who commands, not me. I know the end only when I finish. But during the time I'm writing I concentrate, concentrate on my characters. Only the characters matter.''
        Among his more highly praised novels were ''Act of Passion,'' in which a physician strangles his mistress under the illusion that he is thus killing her sluttish nature while freeing her frightened-child aspect, and ''The Snow Was Black'' (it was made into a film in 1956) about a young man immersed in corruption who attracts a virginal young woman with the aim of corrupting her.
        A novel that was widely read in the United States was ''The Cat,'' a love-hate story of an elderly couple who spend years in silent, mutual torment, communicating only in writing. When the wife dies, the husband, bereft even of his hatred, kills himself. A film adaptation, made in the early 70's, starred Jean Gabin and Simone Signoret. Iron-Willed Mother
        Mr. Simenon was born on Feb. 13, 1903, in the industrial city of Liege, in eastern Belgium. He inherited his intensity from his iron-willed mother, Henriette, who, goaded by the fear of being poor, took in boarders because her husband, Desire, earned only a scanty salary as a clerk.
        The young Georges attended a Jesuit school in Liege and read many novels, including Russian works suggested by his mother's Russian boarders. He worked as an apprentice baker, a book salesman and a newspaper reporter and wrote his first novel before he was 17. At 18, he enlisted in the Belgian army, serving first with an occupation unit in what is now Aachen, West Germany, and later in Liege.
        At 19, he moved to Paris and worked for two years as secretary to a peripatetic French marquis. He began writing pulp stories, which, as he wrote in ''Intimate Memoirs,'' were ''not literature but little stories for the risque weeklies.''
        At first he rented ''a clickety old typewriter'' because he could not afford to buy a machine. When he was 21, he began turning out his pseudonymous, lurid novellas, some of them about American cowboys, and prospered. The Birth of Maigret
        In his late 20's, he spent two years cruising Europe's canals on his boat, the Ostrogoth.
        During a stopover in the Netherlands, Mr. Simenon chose the hulk of a barge as a temporary workroom, set his typewriter on a crate, sat on another, and, as he later recalled, began ''a novel, which might be a dime novel like the others, or perhaps something else.''
        It turned out to be ''Maigret and the Enigmatic Lett,'' in which ''for the first time there appears one Maigret, who, I didn't know then, was to haunt me for so many years and turn my whole life around.''
        Critics differed in their appraisals of Mr. Simenon's long writing career, but the British critic Julian Symons, writing in the early 1970's, concluded that the early Maigrets were ''preferable to the somewhat ramblingly philosophical books of recent years.'' He singled out as top-level Simenon the 1959 novel ''My Friend Maigret,'' in which the inspector investigates a murder on the Mediterranean island of Porquerolles.
        As a teen-ager, Mr. Simenon married a Belgian, Regine Rauchon . They were divorced in 1950. He and Denise Ouimet were married later that year; they separated in 1963.
        He is survived by his second wife; a son, Marc, from his first marriage, and two sons, Jean and Pierre, from his second marriage.
        A daughter from his second marriage, Marie-Georges, called Marie-Jo, committed suicide in 1978, at the age of 25.
        Mr. Simenon left instructions that his ashes be placed under an old cedar tree on his property, near the ashes of his daughter.
        Musing on the future, he once said: ''I don't fear death, but I fear causing trouble by my death to those who survive me. I would like to die as discreetly as possible.''
      