
       John McShain, a contractor and developer who erected several important public buildings in Washington, including the Pentagon, the State Department Building and the Jefferson Memorial, died of a stroke on Sept. 9 in Killarney, Ireland. He was 90 years old.
        John McShain, a contractor and developer who erected several important public buildings in Washington, including the Pentagon, the State Department Building and the Jefferson Memorial, died of a stroke on Sept. 9 in Killarney, Ireland. He was 90 years old.
        His company, John McShain Inc., one of the largest construction contractors in the country in the years before and after World War II, was based in Philadelphia, where his projects included the original Philadelphia International Airport, the Naval Hospital, the Municipal Court House and the State Office Building.
        In 1939 President Franklin D. Roosevelt, having observed Mr. McShain's work in Washington, invited the contractor, a staunch Republican, to build the Roosevelt library in Hyde Park, N.Y.
        Other postwar projects on which Mr. McShain worked were the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and the 1951 renovation of the White House under President Harry S. Truman.
        In addition to his construction work, Mr. McShain was a major property owner in Philadelphia, where he served as head of the Zoning Commission from 1936 to 1952. His Philadelphia holdings included the Barclay Hotel, where he lived, In the 1950's Mr. McShain entered thoroughbred racing, establishing the Barclay Stable in the United States and Ireland and entering horses to major races in Britain and France as well. His colt Ballymoss, Europe's champion horse of 1958, won the Irish Derby and the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe. That same year his filly Gladness won the Ascot Gold Cup in England.
        Mr. McShain, a native of Philadelphia, was a prominent Roman Catholic layman. He was a Papal Chamberlain, a Knight of Malta and a Knight of the Grand Cross of the Holy Sepulchre. Mr. McShain had spent summers for the last three decades at his Irish estate.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Horstmann; a daughter, Sister Pauline Mary of the Society of the Holy Child Jesus, of Rome; and two half-brothers, Joseph, of Farmington, Conn., and William, of Philadelphia.
      