
       Albert Leslie Cole, the first general manager of Reader's Digest and the engineer of its expansion into international editions, books and records, died Tuesday after a brief illness at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 94 years old.
        Albert Leslie Cole, the first general manager of Reader's Digest and the engineer of its expansion into international editions, books and records, died Tuesday after a brief illness at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 94 years old.
        Mr. Cole joined Reader's Digest in 1939 after a career in magazine publishing and sales. He worked in marketing and promotion as the right-hand man of DeWitt Wallace, the magazine's founder. He persuaded Mr. Wallace to expand into international markets, and Reader's Digest began its Spanish edition in 1940.
        Mr. Cole aided the company's diversification into Reader's Digest Condensed Books in 1950 and into record distribution in 1959.
        Born in Chicago, Mr. Cole grew up in New York City. He quit school at 16 to work for a magazine publishing company, then joined Popular Science Monthly as an advertising salesman. In 1929, he was named president and publisher of Popular Science. He also became director and eventually chairman of its distribution company, S-M News.
        Also in 1929, Mr. Cole met DeWitt Wallace, who hired S-M News to distribute Reader's Digest. Mr. Cole was a consultant to the magazine before joining it. Active as Volunteer
        He became vice president of Reader's Digest, then was chairman of its executive committee from 1965 to 1969. He was a member of the board until 1983.
        A member of the national board of directors of the Boys Clubs of America from 1947 to 1980, Mr. Cole was its president from 1954 to 1968 and chairman until 1981. A program to encourage and finance businesses created by young people was established in his name by the organization.
        During his career he was a chairman of the board of the World Press Institute, a chairman of the Advertising Council and a director of the Magazine Publishers Association. He served on an advisory committee of the State Department for its publications abroad. He was also a trustee of Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Margaret Winston; a son, Robert, of Greenwich; two daughters, Jean Van Buren, of Greenwich, and Margaret Jennings, of New Canaan, Conn.; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      