
       Walter Farley, whose 20 ''Black Stallion'' novels about the friendships between horses and children charmed young readers for nearly 50 years, died of heart failure yesterday at a hospital near his home in Venice, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Venice and on a farm near Earlville, Pa.
        Walter Farley, whose 20 ''Black Stallion'' novels about the friendships between horses and children charmed young readers for nearly 50 years, died of heart failure yesterday at a hospital near his home in Venice, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Venice and on a farm near Earlville, Pa.
        The final title in the series about the black Arabian, ''The Young Black Stallion,'' which Mr. Farley wrote with his son Steve, is to be published next month by Random House. He wrote other novels for children, but it was the ''Stallion'' series that won him international acclaim. More than 12 million copies of his books have been sold, in 14 countries.
        Mr. Farley began writing stories about horses at the age of 11 while growing up as a city child in Syracuse. He gained firsthand experience with horses as a teen-ager at an uncle's riding academy. He incorporated his knowledge into juvenile stories when he was a student at Columbia University, where he also began writing ''The Black Stallion.'' He completed the book while working as an advertising copywriter in Manhattan. A Second Novel
        When the book appeared in 1941, it was an immediate popular success. His second novel, ''Larry and the Underseas Raider,'' about a Japanese submarine attacking American vessels near Hawaii, was rejected by his publisher, Random House, but the attack on Pearl Harbor forced a reconsideration, and the book was rushed into print in 1942.
        During Army service in World War II, Mr. Farley completed the first of the ''Stallion'' sequels, ''The Black Stallion Returns.'' After his discharge in 1946, he set out on his career as an author, already internationally famous. An offer he made in 1949 to give a horse to the boy or girl who sent in the best name for a black filly drew 47,000 letters.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosemary; a daughter, Alice, of New York City, and two sons, Steve, of New York City, and Tim, of Los Angeles.
      