
       Dr. Ross F. Nigrelli, a marine biologist and world-renowned expert on diseases of aquatic creatures, died of complications of a stroke on Oct. 4 at Southhampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in East Quogue, L.I.
        Dr. Ross F. Nigrelli, a marine biologist and world-renowned expert on diseases of aquatic creatures, died of complications of a stroke on Oct. 4 at Southhampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in East Quogue, L.I.
        Dr. Nigrelli, who earned a Ph.D. in biology from New York University in 1936, was a longtime marine scientist with the New York Zoological Society, which he joined in 1934 as a pathologist. He had taught biology at N.Y.U. and was a parasitologist with the New York Aquarium.
        In 1964 he founded the Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences. He was director of the laboratories from that year until 1973, when he was named senior scientist. He was director of the New York Aquarium from 1966 to 1970.
        Dr. Nigrelli gained a worldwide reputation for his work on the diseases of fish and other aquatic animals and was among the first to discover virus-induced tumors in fish. Investigated Plankton Blooms
        He was also an authority on the effect of pollution and changes in salinity and water temperature on the health of aquatic animals. He was one of the earliest scientists to investigate the poisons released by marine organisms and to investigate plankton blooms, like the red tide that killed millions of fish along the Gulf Coast of Florida in the 1940's and off Long Island in the 1950's.
        He also experimented in the use of marine organisms as tools in medical research and as potential sources of drugs.
        He found that when the sea cucumber is attacked, it secretes a poison that even in minute quantities is fatal to fish. The excretion also inhibits the growth of tumors in mice.
        He was a former president of the New York Academy of Sciences, and conducted experiments that found that sea sponges secrete chemicals that are antibacterial and that the blood of horseshoe crabs can be used to detect blood poisoning in humans.
        He was born Ross Franco Nigrelli on Dec. 12, 1903, in Pittston, Pa. He did his undergraduate work at Pennsylvania State University. From 1936 to 1943, he taught at City College of the City University of New York.
        He published hundreds of articles and several books on diseases of fish and was a consultant to many government agencies and commissions.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a daughter, Dr. Emanuela Dobrin of Sarasota, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      