
       William M. Fairbank, whose work in low-temperature superconductivity for more than three decades involved some of the most difficult and subtle experiments in physics, died of a heart attack Saturday while jogging in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 72 years old.
        William M. Fairbank, whose work in low-temperature superconductivity for more than three decades involved some of the most difficult and subtle experiments in physics, died of a heart attack Saturday while jogging in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 72 years old.
        Although Dr. Fairbank retired two years ago as physics professor at Stanford University, he had been at work there the night before his death, trying to verify his report of 11 years ago concerning the existence of individual subatomic particles called quarks.
        In conventional physics, quarks, the building blocks of particles of matter like protons and neutrons, are inseparably bound to other quarks. While their electrical charge is fractional, they are combined with other quarks to produce particles with a net charge of zero, plus one or minus one.
        Francis Everitt, one of Dr. Fairbank's colleagues at Stanford, said the physicist devoted much of his career ''doing experiments nobody believed could be done.'' Following Einstein's Lead
        Most of the experiments depended on cooling an experimental device to almost absolute zero, the absence of all heat at minus 460 degrees Fahrenheit. Under such circumstances some materials become superconducting, losing all resistance to an electric current and making possible extremely strong magnetic fields.
        His work in superconductivity began at Duke University in the 1950's and continued when he moved to Stanford in 1959. There he followed up on a suggestion that a subtle effect of Einstein's general theory of relativity could be tested with gyroscopes in earth orbit.
        For more than 20 years that experiment has been under development at Stanford. An engineering model is scheduled to be part of a space shuttle mission in 1993, followed by the experiment itself.
        The experiment will consist of four gyroscopes riding a rolling satellite in polar orbit. Two of the gyros will spin clockwise and two counterclockwise in axes oriented to a distant star. The purpose is to see if their spins drift in the manner predicted by Einstein's concept of curved, four-dimensional space. Teaching Career Began in 1947
        William Martin Fairbank was born in Minneapolis in 1917. He earned his bachelor's degree at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., in 1939, and his doctorate at Yale University in 1948.
        After working on the staff of the Radiation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in World War II, he taught physics at Amherst College from 1947 to 1952 and at Duke from 1952 to 1959.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane; a brother, Henry, a professor emeritus of physics at Duke, and by three sons -William Jr. of Fort Collins, Colo., Robert of Los Angeles and Richard of Washington, D.C.
      