
       Leonard C. Yaseen, a real-estate executive who specialized in relocating factories and offices, died of a heart attack early yesterday at the Rhode Island Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 77 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        Leonard C. Yaseen, a real-estate executive who specialized in relocating factories and offices, died of a heart attack early yesterday at the Rhode Island Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 77 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        Mr. Yaseen, the longtime head of the Fantus Company, was stricken after attending a theatrical performance.
        He started his consulting business in 1934 when he perceived that the heads of many businesses needed information on which to make decisions about moving plants and offices.
        Two decades later, before statistics demonstrated that New York City was losing its industrial base, Mr. Yaseen perceived a flight of manufacturing companies from the city.
        In the 1970's New York City officials hired Mr. Yaseen to come up with strategies to keep jobs in the city and to attract new businesses. He advised using tax breaks and other incentives to develop industrial sites in the boroughs outside Manhattan.
        Mr. Yaseen, born in Chicago Heights, Ill., was a graduate of the University of Illinois and worked for his father-in-law, Felix Fantus, a Chicago industrial realtor who supplied prospective customers gratis information on possible plant locations.
        Mr. Yaseen came to New York and prospered selling such information. He became the major owner of Fantus, which he sold to Dun & Bradstreet several years ago.
        Mr. Yaseen was a former national chairman of the interreligious affairs commission of the American Jewish Committee and the author of ''The Jesus Connection,'' which deals with the sources of anti-Semitism. He and his wife, Helen, founded the Yaseen Studies in Modern Art at the Metropolitan Museum, and he was a trustee of the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Yaseen is survived by a son, Roger, of Manhattan; a daughter, Barbara Tiffany of Philadelphia; a brother, George, of Sarasota, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      