
       Scott O'Dell, who wrote ''Island of the Blue Dolphins'' and 25 other books for children, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 91 years old and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y. His latest book, ''My Name Is Not Angelica,'' is to be published Oct.
        Scott O'Dell, who wrote ''Island of the Blue Dolphins'' and 25 other books for children, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 91 years old and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y. His latest book, ''My Name Is Not Angelica,'' is to be published Oct. 30.
        ''He won more awards than any children's author I know of,'' said Walter Lorraine, the director of children's trade books at Houghton Mifflin, the publishing house for which Mr. O'Dell wrote all his children's books. ''He wrote about female protagonists and was strongly interested in the history of the United States.''
        ''Island of the Blue Dolphins,'' published in 1960, re-created the life of a 19th-century Indian girl who lived alone for 18 years on an island off the California coast. It won the John Newbery prize in 1961, awarded by the American Library Association for the most distinguished contribution to American literature for children. Several other O'Dell books, including ''The Black Pearl'' and ''Sing Down the Moon,'' were Newbery Honor Books. Founding an Award
        Mr. O'Dell, a descendant of Sir Walter Scott, also won the 1972 Hans Christian Andersen Medal, given to the author whose body of work has made the greatest contribution to the literature of the world's children. In 1981, he founded the Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction, a $5,000 annual prize for the best book of historical fiction for children.
        Matilda Welter, Mr. O'Dell's editor at Houghton Mifflin, said that he had been working on a novel with an American Indian theme, but that he had put it aside to write ''My Name Is Not Angelica.'' The narrator of ''Angelica,'' a novel about an 18th-century slave revolt in the West Indies, is the daughter of a Senegalese sub-chief who is captured and sold to Danish slavers.
        Publishers Weekly described the novel as ''ultimately life-affirming, a moving tribute to the dignity of the human spirit.'' It concluded that ''Angelica'' is ''a magnificent tale, superbly told by a grand master of historical fiction.''
        In a 1984 interview, Mr. O'Dell, whose first five books were written for adults, said he wrote ''Dolphins'' because he was angry at the growing presence of hunters killing the wildlife near his home, then in an old mining town east of San Diego. The book has sold more than 400,000 copies in 32 hard-cover editions, and many times that in paperback. It was also made into a movie, as was ''The Black Pearl.'' 'I've Forsaken Adults'
        ''The only reson I write is to say something,'' Mr. O'Dell said. ''I've forsaken adults because they're not going to change, though they may try awfully hard. But children can and do change.''
        Mr. O'Dell was born in Los Angeles on May 24, 1898. After graduating from Stanford University, he was employed as a cameraman and technical director at Paramount Studios, where he worked on several Gloria Swanson films, on the original ''Ben Hur'' and on ''The Sheik'' with Rudolph Valentino.
        His first novel, ''Woman of Spain,'' was published in 1934. In addition to writing books, he worked as a farmer and journalist. He was a book editor for The Los Angeles Daily News and a book columnist for The Los Angeles Times.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Hall; a daughter, Susan Anderson, of Cohocton, N.Y.; a son, David Mason, of Los Angeles; a sister, Lucile Flagg, of Rancho Bernardo, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      