
       Jonathan Goodhue Sherman, the retired Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island, died of heart failure on Friday at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. He was 82 years old and lived in Simsbury, Conn.
        Jonathan Goodhue Sherman, the retired Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island, died of heart failure on Friday at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. He was 82 years old and lived in Simsbury, Conn.
        Bishop Sherman, who was born in St. Louis, was consecrated as the fifth Bishop of Long Island on June 18, 1966, and retired on his 70th birthday, June 13, 1977. He was Suffragan Bishop, an assistant of the Bishop, on Long Island for 17 years before that.
        Discussing his imminent retirement in 1977, Bishop Sherman said in an interview that the diocese, which includes Brooklyn and Queens as well as Nassau and Suffolk Counties, had grown and changed considerably during his career. Ordained in 1934
        Among his accomplishments, Bishop Sherman said then, were his efforts in ''strengthening the spiritual tone'' of the church by emphasizing Bible study and encouraging the work of the Brotherhood of St. Andrew, a missionary group. He also cited his work with a commission on Christian-Jewish relations and his activities as chairman of the commmittee on relations with Eastern churches for the Episcopal Church.
        A graduate of the Kent School, Yale University and the General Theological Seminary in Manhattan, Bishop Sherman was ordained to the priesthood in 1934. He became a vicar of St. Thomas Church in Farmingdale, L.I., and for 10 years was rector of St. Thomas Church in Bellerose, L.I.
        He lived in Garden City, L.I., for 40 years before moving to Simsbury four years ago.
        Bishop Sherman is survived by his wife, Frances; a son, Thomas, of West Newton, Mass.; two daughters, Sallie Sherman Lloyd of Mountain Lakes, N.J., and Marilyn Sherman Kitler of Glastonbury, Conn., and seven grandchildren.
      