
       John F. X. Condon, the resonant voice of Madison Square Garden and the New York Knicks basketball team for 42 seasons, died of cancer Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Queens.
        John F. X. Condon, the resonant voice of Madison Square Garden and the New York Knicks basketball team for 42 seasons, died of cancer Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Queens.
        Mr. Condon, who was as much a part of the history of New York professional basketball as any player or coach, had a trademark greeting: ''Good evening, everybody. Welcome to Madison Square Garden.''
        Those words echoed through two Gardens for more than four decades before Mr. Condon's announcements of the starting lineups at Knick and college basketball games. Started Job in 1947
        Mr. Condon began sitting in the announcer's seat in 1947, 21 years before the Garden moved from 50th Street and Eighth Avenue to its present site and one year after the Knicks were created. While attending a game between the Knicks and the Boston Celtics, he was asked to try out for the public-address job. He never left the scorer's table after that.
        Last season, before a Knick game, Mr. Condon said in jest: ''You know, they never came back and told me I had the job. Maybe I ought to call them and find out.''
        Of the thousands of games he called, Mr. Condon said that his greatest moment came on May 8, 1970, when Willis Reed limped onto the Garden floor to play against the Los Angeles Lakers in the seventh game of the National Basketball Association championship.
        ''The crowd went wild,'' Mr. Condon recalled. ''And when Willis hit his first two shots, I got the chills. That was the greatest game I have ever seen.''
        The Knicks won that game for their first championship. Active in the Fight Game
        Mr. Condon also branched into boxing, where, at different times, he was the publicity director, vice president and president of Madison Square Garden Boxing. For a time, too, he served as the matchmaker and the blow-by-blow commentator for fights televised over the MSG cable-television network.
        But his expertise was not limited to basketball and boxing. In the late 1950's, he was the color commentator for the New York Giants' football games and did pregame and post-game shows for the Giants and for baseball's Yankees.
        Once as he was arguing on the telephone, two strangers entered his office at the Garden. As one was about to introduce himself, Mr. Condon said: ''Can't you see I'm talking to somebody? Sit down over there. I'll be with you in a minute.''
        The two followed his instructions. When the telephone conversation was completed, one of the men stood up and introduced himself. He then turned to the other man, still seated and said, ''Mr. Condon, I'd like you to meet Prince Rainier of Monaco.'' Boxing Award
        It turned out the Prince wanted to see the circus. After apologizing, Mr. Condon gave his visitors a pair of circus tickets, a pair of boxing gloves and an invitation to lunch. The Prince declined the lunch date.
        In relating the story years later, Mr. Condon said: ''He told me he wanted to have some hot dogs at the circus. That's my kind of guy.'' In 1969, the New York Boxing Writers Association awarded Mr. Condon the James J. Walker Award for his long service to the sport. Eleven years later, when he was named president of Garden Boxing, he attempted to restore the popularity of Friday night fights, but he never could.
        Mr. Condon is survived by his wife, Viola.
        A funeral service has been scheduled for 8 P.M. tomorrow at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at Madison Avenue and 81st Street.
      