
       Graham Chapman, a Cambridge-educated physician who decided to specialize in comedy and who helped to found Monty Python's Flying Circus, died of throat cancer yesterday at a hospital near his home in England. He was 48 years old.
        Graham Chapman, a Cambridge-educated physician who decided to specialize in comedy and who helped to found Monty Python's Flying Circus, died of throat cancer yesterday at a hospital near his home in England. He was 48 years old.
        Mr. Chapman, the originator of such characters as the Colonel and skits including ''Spam'' and ''The Ministry for Silly Walks,'' was rushed to the hospital on Tuesday in Maidstone, Kent, said Mr. Chapman's manager, Don Epstein.
        Several Monty Python members were at Mr. Chapman's bedside when he died. The members of the group had gone their separate ways in 1983, but they had reunited last month to participate in a television special for the 20th anniversary of their first half-hour appearance on British television, on Oct. 5, 1969.
        The final original episode of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' was broadcast in December 1974. Earlier that year, a public-television station in Dallas became the first American station to show the series. Other public-television stations around the country quickly followed suit. The group's anniversary show is to be broadcast this year by television stations around the world, Mr. Epstein said.
        The group, whose other members were John Cleese, Michael Palin, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle and Terry Jones, was an instant hit in the United States. All but Mr. Gilliam, a native of Minneapolis, were English and were educated at Cambridge and Oxford.
        The founders of the troupe said the name Monty Python's Flying Circus was not supposed to mean anything.
        ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' was called a ''bizarre, unpredictable show'' by Alan Brien in The New York Times in 1969. ''Childlike yet sophisticated, surrealist and simple-minded,'' he wrote, ''it provides an outlet for the team's personal obsessions, group fantasies and nightmarish anecdotes.'' 'A Free Hand'
        ''The BBC didn't quite know what to do with us,'' Mr. Chapman recalled in a 1976 interview, ''and so they rather nervously gave us a free hand to create our own program.''
        At the end of a skit, a narrator might say, ''The part of David Hemmings was played by a piece of wood.'' In the ''Spam'' skit, people seem to subsist on canned meat, and a crew of Vikings chants ''Spam, Spam, Spam, Spam'' at regular intervals. Another classic, ''The Hospital for Overacting,'' showed the Richard the III ward, where patients were eased out of their affliction with therapy that involved reciting, ''My horse, my horse, my kingdom for a horse.''
        Mr. Chapman performed the lead roles in two of the group's full-length films. He played Arthur in ''Monty Python's Holy Grail,'' released in 1978, and Brian in ''Life of Brian,'' in 1979. The group's last film, ''Monty Python's Meaning of Life,'' was released in 1983. God and a Sense of Humor
        Not everyone laughed. Religious leaders denounced as blasphemous ''Life of Brian,'' a sort of comedy of errors built around the life of Christ, and the film was briefly banned by a judge in Georgia. Mr. Chapman responded to the criticism by saying he was bothered only by ''everybody thinking that whatever God they believe in doesn't have a sense of humor.''
        In 1981, Mr. Chapman wrote a book, ''A Liar's Autobiography,'' which was an enhanced version of his life. He also wrote and starred in the 1983 film ''Yellowbeard,'' a comedic tale of a treasure quest. After the group split up, Mr. Chapman worked in New York City and Los Angeles, writing film and television scripts, his manager said. He was working on several projects at the time of his death.
        Mr. Chapman is survived by a brother and a son.
      