
       Edward W. Barrett, a journalist, government official and public-relations executive who was dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism from 1956 to 1968, died of a ruptured aneurysm Monday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Edward W. Barrett, a journalist, government official and public-relations executive who was dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism from 1956 to 1968, died of a ruptured aneurysm Monday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Mr. Barrett, who had been inactive since he suffered a stroke five years ago, was a leading figure in American journalism for more than three decades. In 1962 he founded The Columbia Journalism Review, one of the earliest national magazines devoted to criticism of the news media.
        He entered the academic world after a varied career as a journalist that included editorial posts at Newsweek magazine; direction of overseas operations for the Office of War Information in World War II; service as Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs after the war, and counseling in public relations as executive vice president of Hill & Knowlton Inc. Fourth Dean of School
        At Columbia University, Mr. Barrett was the fourth dean of the journalism school, which was founded in 1912 under the will of Joseph Pulitzer. Mr. Barrett's departure from the post in 1968 was abrupt and came a few months after violent student demonstrations, led by opponents of the war in Vietnam, had closed the university.
        He said he was resigning because of a disagreement with policies of the university's administration, then headed by Grayson Kirk as president. But he also made it clear that he had ''no sympathy whatever'' for Students for a Democratic Society, which had led the campus demonstrations.
        Although widely urged to reconsider his decision to resign, Mr. Barrett remained steadfast and refused to elaborate on his reasons for leaving.
        From 1969 to 1977, he headed the Communications Institute of the Academy for Educational Development. In 1975 he resumed a tie to Columbia when he became publisher of the Journalism Review, a post he held until 1982. Father Was an Editor
        Mr. Barrett was born into a newspaper family in Birmingham, Ala., where his father was editor and publisher of The Age-Herald. At Princeton University, where he majored in public and international affairs, he was chairman of The Daily Princetonian. He graduated in 1932 with honors.
        After a short period with CBS, he joined Newsweek in 1933 as a researcher-writer and later became the magazine's Washington correspondent and its national affairs editor. In 1937 he joined Today, a magazine that soon merged with Newsweek, where he became an associate editor and originated the ''Periscope'' department.
        During World War II, Mr. Barrett went into Government service in 1942 with the office of the Coordinator of Information, which later became the Office of Stategic Services. That same year he was made chief of the overseas news and features division of the Office of War Information, for which he established a worldwide news and photo distributing service. With State Department
        After heading all overseas war information operations in the latter stages of the war, Mr. Barrett rejoined Newsweek in 1946. Four years later he returned to Government service as Assistant Secretary of State to manage the State Department's programs in public affairs and international information. In that post he reorganized the Voice of America radio service and tripled its size.
        In 1952 Mr. Barrett set up his own public-relations firm, Edward W. Barrett Associates. Three years later he became executive vice president of Hill & Knowlton.
        He wrote two books, ''Truth Is Our Weapon,'' published in 1953, which recounted his World War II experiences, and ''Journalism in Action,'' published in 1963.
        Mr. Barrett is survived by his wife, the former Mason Daniel, and two daughters, Margo, of Manhattan, and Lisa, of Richmond, Vt.
      