
       The Rev. John Thomas Walker, the first black Episcopal bishop of Washington and a staunch crusader against racial discrimination at home and abroad, died of heart failure at Georgetown University Hospital yesterday. He was 64 years old.  Bishop Walker had undergone triple bypass surgery Friday, the Episcopal Diocese of
        The Rev. John Thomas Walker, the first black Episcopal bishop of Washington and a staunch crusader against racial discrimination at home and abroad, died of heart failure at Georgetown University Hospital yesterday. He was 64 years old.  Bishop Walker had undergone triple bypass surgery Friday, the Episcopal Diocese of Washington said.
        He was Dean of the Washington National Cathedral and the vice president of the National House of Bishops of the Episcopal Church.
        Bishop Walker joined the Episcopal Church in 1947 and was ordained a deacon in 1954 and a priest in 1955, when there were few blacks and no women in the clergy. He used the traditions of the church to forge greater integration in the community, fighting segregation and supporting the ordination of women as clergy members.
        He was made Suffragan Bishop of Washington in 1976 and Diocesan Bishop in 1977. 'Must Address the Issues'
        In an address to the Diocese of Washington convention in 1977, Bishop Walker said, ''The church must stand firmly at that point where the church and the world meet, and it must address the issues of the day, not as having solutions but as a body of concerned people who, together with other citizens, seek solutions to the larger problems of our time.''
        Bishop Walker actively protested against apartheid in South Africa. In 1985, he was arrested at the South African Embassy in Washington.
        He repeatedly asked for greater understanding for people with AIDS and established the first full-time chaplaincy in the church to minister to AIDS patients.
        The diocese said the Rev. Ronald Haines, the Suffragan Bishop, would conduct diocesan affairs until a new bishop is chosen.
        Mr. Walker was born July 27, 1925, in Barnesville, Ga., and grew up in Detroit. He was the first black graduate of Virginia Theological Seminary in 1954.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Rosa Maria Flores; three children, Thomas Peyton Walker of Washington, Ana Maria Walker of New York City and Charles Nathan Walker, a student at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and a brother, Henry O. Walker of Detroit.
        Funeral services will be held Thursday at 1 P.M. at the Washington Cathedral.
      