
       Huynh Tan Phat, a leader of the Vietcong during the Indochina war and later a senior official in the Hanoi Government, died Saturday in Ho Chi Minh City. He was 76 years old.
        Huynh Tan Phat, a leader of the Vietcong during the Indochina war and later a senior official in the Hanoi Government, died Saturday in Ho Chi Minh City. He was 76 years old.
        Vietnamese officials announced that Mr. Phat would be buried on Thursday in Ho Chi Minh City, the southern capital formerly known as Saigon.
        Before the collapse of South Vietnam in 1975, Mr. Phat emerged as the chief theoretician of the Vietcong, formally the National Liberation Front, the southern, Communist-led political movement backed by North Vietnam. Among Northern Colleagues
        After the Communist victory, he was one of the few from the South to hold a leadership position in a Government and Communist Party dominated by northern Vietnamese. His positions included that of vice chairman of the Council of State.
        Born in My Tho in the Mekong Delta in 1913, Mr. Phat became involved with the anti-French underground in 1936, after earning an architecture degree from Hanoi University. He was editor of the anti-French magazine, Jeunesse (Youth), and a founder of the Vanguard Youth movement.
        In 1945, he joined the rebellion in the Saigon region against the French colonial government, and was arrested by the French on several occasions before going underground in 1949. He became director of the movement's information service and was named to the resistance and administrative committee in the Saigon-Cholon area.
        After the defeat of the French in 1954, he returned to Saigon and established an office as an architect, but continued his political activities as a founding member and later secretary general of the Democratic Party. In 1959, he again went underground when the South Vietnamese Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem began to move forcefully against the political opposition. Senior Positions
        In 1960, he was named to the Central Committee of the National Liberation Front, becoming its secretary general and vice chairman of its Presidium and emerging as chief theoretician.
        In 1968, he was named chairman of the Alliance of National Democratic and Peace Forces, another Hanoi-backed grouping, and in June 1969 became president of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, a shadow government set up by the Vietcong.
        There was no report of immediate survivors.
      