
       Dean Alfange, a lawyer who ran unsuccessfully for governor of New York in 1942 as a candidate of the American Labor Party and who two years later was a leader in forming the Liberal Party, died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        Dean Alfange, a lawyer who ran unsuccessfully for governor of New York in 1942 as a candidate of the American Labor Party and who two years later was a leader in forming the Liberal Party, died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Alfange changed his affiliations among the state's parties, holding nominations or appointments through the Democrats and Republicans, as well as the Liberals and the American Labor Party.
        In 1940, after several years as a leader of the American Labor Party, he was made chairman of the Democratic foreign-language speakers' bureau in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's third election campaign. Mr. Alfange was born to Greek parents in Istanbul, Turkey, which was then called Constantinople, and had close ties to immigrant groups.
        In 1941 he ran for Congress on the Democratic ticket in the Silk Stocking district on the East Side of Manhattan and lost to JosephClark Baldwin, a Republican. The next year, when Thomas E. Dewey won his first term as governor, Mr. Alfange ran third, as the Labor Party nominee, behind the Democrat, John J. Bennett. Promotion of Quarter Horses
        When a conflict between pro-Communist and anti-Communist factions in the American Labor Party widened in the 40's, Mr. Alfange led a walkout that resulted in the formation of the Liberal Party.
        In the early 70's, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller named him to head a division of the State Racing and Wagering Board devoted to promoting quarter-horse racing. The effort failed, and the board was abolished when Hugh L. Carey became governor in 1975.
        Mr. Alfange came here as an infant and was raised in upstate New York. After serving in the Army in World War I, he went to Hamilton College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. After receiving a law degree from Columbia University, he opened a practice in Manhattan.
        Mr. Alfange was active in ethnic organizations and had been national president of Ahepa, a Greek-American civic group. He was president of the La Guardia Memorial House, a settlement house in East Harlem, for more than 40 years.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Thalia Perry, and a son, Dean Jr., of Leverett, Mass.
      