
       Ira Hirschmann, a business executive, pioneer in radio broadcasts of classical music and political associate of Fiorello H. La Guardia, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old.
        Ira Hirschmann, a business executive, pioneer in radio broadcasts of classical music and political associate of Fiorello H. La Guardia, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old.
        In his wide-ranging career, Mr. Hirschmann was also an anti-Nazi crusader who was instrumental in obtaining the release of tens of thousands of Rumanian concentration camp inmates in World War II.
        Born into a wealthy family of merchants in Baltimore, he attended Johns Hopkins University for two years before going to work for L. Bamberger & Company in Newark, where he soon became advertising and sales manager.
        There followed executive positions at Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's. While a vice president at Bloomingdale's in the late 1930's he started experimental television and FM radio stations. The FM station became WABF, which broadcast live classical-music concerts in the 1940's. United Nations Special Inspector
        Mr. Hirschmann's interest in politics and government service led him to a long association with La Guardia, whom he met in 1933 when the former Congressman was running for Mayor.
        Mr. Hirschmann filled a number of roles for La Guardia, starting as a campaign adviser and trouble-shooter, moving on to membership on the Board of Higher Education and finally to special inspector for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, which stemmed from one of LaGuardia's multiple roles during World War II.
        Mr. Hirschmann's anti-Nazi activities began when, as a store executive in the mid-1930's, he organized the first American boycott of German-made goods. The Escape of Jews
        In 1944, after service in Washington with the War Labor Board, he was sent to the Near East as a special representative of the War Refugee Board to try to expedite the escape of Jews from the Nazi-occupied Balkan states.
        In Turkey he contacted a Rumanian diplomat, to whom he offered visas for the envoy's family to the United States in exchange for opening the gates of the Transnistria concentration camp, the country's largest. As many as 100,000 inmates escaped, many of whom made their way to Israel.
        An accomplished amateur pianist who studied with Artur Schnabel, he was a founder of the New Friends of Music, a nonprofit organization dedicated to bringing classical music to the general public. He was the author of, among other books, ''The Embers Still Burn,'' published in 1939, which was critical of United States postwar policies in Europe.
        Mr. Hirschmann's longtime companion was Lillian Rouse. He is survived by a brother, Joseph, of Baltimore.
        Correction:  October 21, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Oct. 10 about Ira Hirschmann, a business executive involved in anti-Nazi activities, misstated the date of his book ''The Embers Still Burn,'' which criticized United States foreign policy. It was 1949, not 1939.
      