
       Friends and fellow actors gathered at Westminster Abbey today to celebrate the life and achievements of Laurence Olivier.
        Friends and fellow actors gathered at Westminster Abbey today to celebrate the life and achievements of Laurence Olivier.
        At a memorial service full of pageantry and attended by 2,000 celebrities, politicians and members of Lord Olivier's family, the actor was praised with words from Shakespeare and the Bible and with remembrances and song. Lord Olivier, who died on July 11 at the age of 82 and whose private funeral was held three months ago, is to be commemorated at the Abbey next year by a plaque, under which his ashes are to be laid.
        After Lady Olivier, the actress Joan Plowright, and others were seated, nine of Britain's leading actors who worked with Lord Olivier walked in theatrical procession bearing mementos of his career.
        Entering through the Abbey's St. John's Chapel to the fanfare from Sir William Walton's music to ''Hamlet,'' Douglas Fairbanks Jr. carried a gold-fringed, blue velvet pillow on which lay the insignia of the Order of Merit awarded to Lord Olivier. After placing the memento at the high altar, he was followed by Michael Caine, who carried the actor's Oscar, awarded for lifetime achievement in the film industry, and Maggie Smith, Paul Scofield, Derek Jacobi, Peter O'Toole, Ian McKellen, Dorothy Tutin and Frank Finlay. They carried silver models of the Royal National Theater and the Chichester Festival Theater, from which Lord Olivier moved to take over the helm of the National. 'Unique and Awesome Talent'
        Other mementos included the crown used in the film, ''Richard III,'' the script of the film ''Hamlet,'' the laurel wreath in the stage production of ''Coriolanus,'' the crown used in the television production of ''King Lear'' and the sword presented to the actor by Sir John Gielgud.
        The Dean of Westminster, the Rev. Michael Mayne, said Lord Olivier's ashes would lie ''beside those of Irving and Garrick, beneath the bust of Shakespeare and within a stone's throw of the graves of Henry V and the Lady Anne, Queen to Richard III.''
        ''Laurence Olivier received from God a unique and awesome talent,'' Mr. Mayne said, ''which he used to the full. Today we come to remember him, to ask of God forgiveness for his faults and to celebrate the gifts which have enhanced all our lives and brought a splendor to our nation. For 60 years he moved, astonished and teased his public. He could interpret human nature at its noblest, at its most comic and at its most pitiable.'' Readings Are Offered
        As photographs of Lord Olivier in his roles were flashed on closed-circuit television screens in the church, readings were given by Albert Finney, Sir John Mills, Sir John Gielgud and Dame Peggy Ashcroft. In the main address, Sir Alec Guinness provided a synopsis of Lord Olivier's career, which included acting in more than 100 roles in the theater, starring in 20 films, directing about 25 plays and producing 20. Sir Alec described the actor as ''a shrewd man, with an acerbic wit and great charm,'' as well as ''ambitious, determined, brave and daring.'' He paid tribute to both his soaring performances in the classics and his mastery of comic roles.
        ''I don't know how he set about his work as an actor,'' Sir Alec said, ''probably very privately and from the outside in, so to speak. He quickly formed an image of what he wanted to look like in a part. That was an anchor for him. He needed all the practicalities to be clear and firm before he could infuse his spirit into what he was playing. I have the impression that, when studying a script, his imagination would alight on a phrase or two which he would then emphasize extraordinarily. Sometimes I thought: 'I don't believe that line is in the play; he must have made it up.' But sure enough, it was there. And he had been right to draw attention to it.
        ''I am not altogether sure, though, that he was right in altering a particular piece of punctuation when playing Malvolio, but the result was undoubtedly funny. He changed the line -when Malvolio interrupts Sir Toby, Sir Andrew Aguecheek and Feste in their midnight carousal - from, 'My masters, are you mad, or what are you?' to 'My masters, are you mad or what? Are you?' Of course, in these days of some peculiar productions, that would pass unnoticed.'' Olivier's Voice Is Heard
        Celebrities from other fields attended the ceremony, including Prince Edward, the director Franco Zeffirelli and Deputy Prime Minister Sir Geoffrey Howe. The Prince and Princess of Wales were represented by the director Sir Richard Attenborough. Among Olivier family members were Lord and Lady Olivier's children, Julie-Kate, 21, Richard, 27, and Tamsin, 23.
        Toward the end of the service, the powerful voice of Lord Olivier blanketed the church in a recorded reading of the famous monologue he delivered in his role as Henry V - ''This day is called the feast of Crispian'' - with which he rallied weary English troops before the Battle of Agincourt. As those in attendance walked out into the cool autumn air, the bells of the Abbey pealed.
      