
       Carl E. Newton, a New York lawyer for more than half a century who served as Deputy Coal Administrator in Washington during World War II, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        Carl E. Newton, a New York lawyer for more than half a century who served as Deputy Coal Administrator in Washington during World War II, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Newton was a founding partner in 1934 of the New York law firm of Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, with which he remained associated until his death. With the firm he advised a number of large clients over the years, including the Alleghany Corporation, Investors Diversified Services, RKO and Howard Hughes.
        He counseled Robert R. Young and Allan P. Kirby, the heads of Alleghany, in their successful fight to gain control of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad, which led to Mr. Newton's being named president of the railroad in 1942.
        The next year, after President Franklin D. Roosevelt had nationalized the coal industry to prevent a strike by the United Mine Workers, Mr. Newton was named to run the mines by Harold L. Ickes, the Interior Secretary. Studied at Harvard Law School
        Later in the war Mr. Newton served as a consultant to the Office of Strategic Services under Gen. William J. Donovan, who had been the law firm's senior partner. Mr. Newton had served in World War I as a lieutenant in the Army.
        A native of Somerville, Mass., he was a graduate of Dartmouth and attended Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, receiving a degree in jurisprudence. He later studied at the Harvard Law School.
        In 1925, as an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan, he took part in an investigation of fraud in the custody of alien property, helping to send Thomas W. Miller, the Federal custodian, to prison. Later, as a special assistant New York State Attorney General, he investigated a scandal in the use of public funds for sewer construction in Queens.
        In 1929 he joined the Manhattan law firm of White & Case, resigning four years later when Donovan Leisure was formed.
        Mr. Newton was an accomplished amateur magician and served a term as president of the American Society of Magicians. He was also an amateur artist whose paintings were displayed on several occasions. He was a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers.
        His survivors include a daughter, Sallie Calhoun of Redding, Conn., and two sons, William and Thomas.
      