
       Dr. Mario D. Fantini, a former dean of the School of Education at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst who had a major role in the decentralization of New York City's public schools, died Friday at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., after a long illness. He was 62 years old and lived in Woodland Hills.
        Dr. Mario D. Fantini, a former dean of the School of Education at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst who had a major role in the decentralization of New York City's public schools, died Friday at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., after a long illness. He was 62 years old and lived in Woodland Hills.  In the late 1960's, Dr. Fantini was one of those involved in establishing an experimental local school district in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section of Brooklyn. It became the forerunner of the city's decentralized districts. He spent his career as an education reformer, advocating school systems with greater community participation and schools that were better adapted to urban students' needs.
        He was the author of many books, including ''Regaining Excellence in Education'' (Charles Merrill, 1986), ''Alternative Education: A Sourcebook for Parents, Teachers, Students and Administrators'' (Doubleday, 1976) and ''Public Schools of Choice: A Plan for the Reform of American Education,'' (Simon & Schuster, 1974). He was a co-author of ''Decentralization: Achieving Reform'' (Praeger Press, 1973) and ''The Disadvantaged: Challenge to Education'' (Harper & Row, 1968). Ford Foundation Post
        Dr. Fantini, who was born in Philadelphia, earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Temple University and a doctorate in education from Harvard University. In 1966, he became a program officer for the Ford Foundation Fund for the Advancement of Education. While in that post, he was executive secretary of Mayor John V. Lindsay's panel on decentralization.
        The New York City plan has been criticized in the last year as many of the 32 decentralized districts have been investigated on a variety of corruption charges. There has been a growing consensus on the need to revamp or even replace the structure.
        Dr. Fantini also worked as a consultant in the school systems of Los Angeles and Washington. In 1970, he became dean of the education faculty at the State University of New York College of Education at New Paltz. He was dean at the University of Massachusetts School of Education until 1987, when he resigned because of illness but remained on the faculty.
        Surviving are his wife, Temmy; four children, Steffan, Todd, Marc and Brianne, all of Woodland Hills, and his mother, Caroline, and a sister, Alma Simon, both of Philadelphia.
      