
       Percival Goodman, an architect, planner and artist who was one of the nation's leading designers of synagogues, died of lung cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospice in New York. He was 85 years old and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in a house of his own design in East Hampton, L.I.
        Percival Goodman, an architect, planner and artist who was one of the nation's leading designers of synagogues, died of lung cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospice in New York. He was 85 years old and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in a house of his own design in East Hampton, L.I.
        Mr. Goodman, who held the rank of professor emeritus at the Columbia University School of Architecture, where he taught from 1946 to 1971, was as well known for his social thought as for his architectural work. He believed passionately that the architect had a responsibility not merely to create physical forms, but also to serve as an advocate for improved social conditions.
        A lifelong student of utopias, Mr. Goodman wrote ''Communitas,'' a blueprint for ideal communities, with his brother, the philosopher Paul Goodman, in 1947. He later wrote ''The Double E,'' a treatise on the relationship of ecology to city planning, which was published in 1977, and in the years before his death he joined his love of illustration to his fascination with utopian communities by embarking on a book-length series of elaborate drawings of utopias throughout history.
        Although his writings focused on the relationship of architecture to social concerns, in his architectural practice Mr. Goodman was more specialized.
        From 1936 to 1979, when he closed his office on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, he designed more than 50 synagogues and religious buildings around the United States, including the stone-clad Fifth Avenue Synagogue at 5 East 62d Street in Manhattan; Congregation Adath Israel in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, a strongly sculptural mass of concrete and red brick, and Shaarey Zedek in Detroit, a building with a stark prowlike concrete roof cutting into the sky.
        His synagogues were assertive, modernist structures, reflecting Mr. Goodman's belief that the vocabulary of modern architecture could be transformed into something rich enough to express powerful religious feeling. Interpreting Jewish Tradition
        The son of wealthy parents who were artists, Mr. Goodman was by temperament more of an iconoclast than a devout Jew, and he once described himself to an interviewer as ''an agnostic who was converted by Hitler.'' His goal was to design synagogues that interpreted Jewish tradition in modern ways, and he saw the architect as critical to the process of expressing religious identity in the 20th century. ''The problem of the architect is to find a form,'' Mr. Goodman said. ''Not just what the client has seen or what he thinks he wants, but what he needs.''
        Although he was best known as a synagogue architect, he did not entirely limit his practice to religious structures. From his drafting board came many houses, including some of eastern Long Island's pioneering modernist designs in the 1930's, and several schools and public buildings in New York, including Public School 92 on West 134th Street in Manhattan, completed in 1965, and the administration building of Queensborough Community College, built in 1977.
        But Mr. Goodman was best known as an urban theorist. He was deeply committed to the belief that rational planning could create better cities, and he was a persistent critic of most of New York City's planning efforts, which he considered timid and dictated by short-term political concerns.
        He designed many plans for sections of New York, including, in 1945, an immense master plan for Long Island City that would have turned that industrial district of Queens into a residential community for 13,000 families, prefiguring by more than 40 years the more gradual transformation occurring there today.
        Mr. Goodman was an early critic, however, of urban-renewal plans that displaced large numbers of residents and destroyed older buildings. In the 1960's, he designed a plan for a 10-block renewal area from 125th to 135th Streets in Harlem. This was a project Columbia University intended to sponsor, one that ultimately became embroiled in the issues surrounding the student strike at Columbia in 1968. Mr. Goodman disavowed Columbia's version of the plan, which was prepared by other architects, saying it did not represent his original intentions. Money, Esthetics and Ethics
        Although Mr. Goodman preferred to think in terms of the ideal, he was a pragmatic observer of the realities of building in New York City. In 1931, in response to criticism that the incomplete Rockefeller Center-Radio City complex was not sufficiently beautiful, Mr. Goodman wrote: ''Money-making is not the bedfellow of esthetics and ethics. That's why New York is such a mess. Any criticism of this effort is a criticism of our time, our culture and our motives; hence, if Radio City is disliked, the reason lies deeper rooted than perhaps we are willing to admit.''
        A persistent critic of the city's establishment architects, Mr. Goodman argued at a public forum in 1969 that the American Institute of Architects was irrelevant because it took few moral or political positions. The institute nonetheless named him a fellow, its highest category of membership for a practicing architect.
        For all Mr. Goodman devoted himself to encouraging visionary planning, he showed himself in ''Communitas'' to be an irreverent critic of most of the utopian plans the 20th century has produced so far. He denounced Ebenezer Howard's garden cities by saying, ''Rather than live in a garden city, an intellectual would rather meet a bear in the woods.'' He said of Le Corbusier's plans for the Ville Radieuse, a city of modernist slabs standing amid highways and open space, ''The great machine of the Ville Radieuse, for all its constructivist beauty, is not a city at all.'' On Robert Moses
        And in language that suggests the criticism that was to be made of Robert Moses years later, he attacked Moses's plans for New York in the sharpest language of all, saying of Moses's elaborate system of parkways, ''Imagine if this expenditure had been more equitably divided to improve the center and make livable neighborhoods.''
        Percival Goodman was born in New York City on Jan. 13, 1904. He was educated privately, and in 1925 he received the Society of Beaux-Arts Architects Paris Prize, which sent him to the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris, where he received his architectural training.
        He is survived by his wife, Naomi; two sons, George Ridge and Joel; a daughter, Rachel; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      