
       Norma Terris, who was catapulted to stardom as a lead in the original production of ''Show Boat,'' died Wednesday after a brief illness at her summer home in Lyme, Conn. She was 87 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla.
        Norma Terris, who was catapulted to stardom as a lead in the original production of ''Show Boat,'' died Wednesday after a brief illness at her summer home in Lyme, Conn. She was 87 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla.
        Miss Terris played Magnolia in the Florenz Ziegfeld production of the hit musical by Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein II. Opening in 1927, the show ran on Broadway for two and a half years with Miss Terris, who was critically acclaimed for her lovely voice and charming acting.
        While she was rehearsing for ''Show Boat,'' Kern and Hammerstein wrote a song for her, ''Why Do I Love You?'' one of the musical's enduring songs. She repeated her success in a 1932 revival on Broadway.
        While she went on to other roles in the musical theater, Miss Terris remained linked to her most glittering triumph and never surpassed it. For 10 years in the 1930's and 1940's, she was a star of the Municipal Opera Company of St. Louis, appearing in plays by Noel Coward and Moss Hart. She also acted in Hollywood films in the 1930's. Role as a Patron
        By the end of the 1940's, she moved gracefully into the role of patron of the musical theater. A 30-year member of the board of the Goodspeed Opera House Foundation, in Chester, Conn., Miss Terris sang there occasionally and supported the theater.
        In 1984, the Goodspeed opened the Norma Terris Theater in her honor, dedicated to developing new musicals. Miss Terris performed a one-woman show of impersonations of great musical-comedy stars, donating the proceeds to the center. Later, she established a fund to encourage performing artists and composers and endowed an intern program at the Goodspeed Opera House, which aids young people starting theatrical careers.
        Miss Terris, a devoted animal lover, donated 30 acres of land in East Haddam, Conn., as a nature center and regional office for the Humane Society.
        She was born in Columbus, Kan., to a singer, who named her after the Bellini opera ''Norma.'' She got her first show business break in the title role of George M. Cohan's ''Little Nellie Kelly.''
        She is survived by her husband, Albert D. Firestone.
      