
       Henry Melville Margolis, a lawyer who branched out to become an industrialist, restaurateur, Broadway producer and philanthropist, died at New York Hospital yesterday after suffering a heart attack while attending a function at Lincoln Center.
        Henry Melville Margolis, a lawyer who branched out to become an industrialist, restaurateur, Broadway producer and philanthropist, died at New York Hospital yesterday after suffering a heart attack while attending a function at Lincoln Center.
        A resident of Manhattan, he died on his 80th birthday.
        Mr. Margolis was a 1932 graduate of the New York University Law School and was in private practice before serving with the Marines in the Pacific in World War II. After the war he moved into hotel and real-estate development in Manhattan as an investor. He bought stock in Elgin National Industries, the watch company, and was named to the company's board. Subsequently he became chairman and a trustee of Elgin. Active in Business at Death
        He was also on the board of Aero-Flow Dynamics, Schmieg Industries and the Cortland Line Company. At his death he was chairman of C. E. Jamieson, a health-care company in Toronto, and on the board of Alaska Airlines.
        In the 1950's Mr. Margolis was co-owner of the Cafe Chambord and was later associated with several other restaurants in Manhattan, including Le Cote Basque.
        As a philanthropist, he supported research in preventive medicine, cancer and heart disease, serving on the boards of the American Committee of the Weizmann Institute of Science, the Nathan Pritikin Research Foundation and the Strang Clinic's Preventive Medicine Clinic. A chair at the Harvard University Medical School was named in his honor. He was a founding trustee of the American Jewish Congress. Helped Produce Plays
        Mr. Margolis's interest in the arts began in the early 1950's when he helped produce Broadway plays, including ''Sweet Love Remembered,'' ''Tiger at the Gates,'' ''The Reclining Figure,'' ''Moby Dick'' and ''King Lear.''
        More recently he was a founding director of the International Center for Photography and on the board of the Alvin Ailey Dance Company.
        He is survived by a son, Eric, of Toronto, and two sisters, Rosaline Young of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Susan Burton of Los Angeles.
      