
       Richard C. Bond, a Philadelphia civic leader and retired head of the John Wanamaker department store chain, died of pancreatic cancer and a cerebral hemmorhage Saturday at Lankenau Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and lived in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
        Richard C. Bond, a Philadelphia civic leader and retired head of the John Wanamaker department store chain, died of pancreatic cancer and a cerebral hemmorhage Saturday at Lankenau Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and lived in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
        Mr. Bond retired as president of Wanamaker's in 1968 but remained active in a number of civic ventures. Among other leadership posts he held were the presidency of the Philadelphia Orchestra's board for 12 years, chairmanship of the committee that built Veterans Stadium and head of Philadelphia's Bicentennial celebration in 1976.
        A native of Jersey City and the son of a railroad executive, Mr. Bond grew up in the Philadelphia suburb of Upper Darby. He received a bachelor's degree from Swarthmore College, where he was an All-America soccer player, and a master's in business administration from Harvard.
        He started work as a stockboy earning $12 a week at Stawbridge & Clothier, the Philadelphia department store, and was promoted to buyer in the Depression. In 1941 he went to Marshall Field in Chicago as a merchandise manager and in 1948 returned to Philadelphia to become vice president and general merchandise manager of Wanamaker's. Two years later he was named chief executive, a post he held for 18 years. Retirement as President
        In his time at Wanamaker's, the store rose from a fifth-ranked position among Philadelphia's retailers, behind Gimbels, Lit Brothers, Strawbridge & Clothier and Snellenburgs, to become first in sales volume from the mid-1950's until the early 1970's. After retiring as president, Mr. Bond remained a Wanamaker director until 1977.
        Over a period of several years he headed the effort to build Veterans Stadium, home of the Phillies baseball team and the Eagles football team.
        He was an early leader of the Greater Philadelphia Movement, which built support for government reform and physical redevelopment in the 1950's and 1960's.
        Mr. Bond served as a director of several corporations, including Philco, the Philadelphia National Bank and Bell Telephone of Pennsylvania, and was one of four trustees who oversaw reorganization of the Penn Central Transportation Company when it went bankrupt in 1970.
        Among Mr. Bond's survivors are his wife, the former Barbara Batt; a son, Richard Jr.; two daughters, Rene Collins and Patricia Kovas, and 18 grandchilden.
      