
       Arnold Bauman, a former United States District Court judge, a prosecutor and a prominent New York litigator for many years, died of cancer Tuesday night at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        Arnold Bauman, a former United States District Court judge, a prosecutor and a prominent New York litigator for many years, died of cancer Tuesday night at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        Mr. Bauman was named to the Federal District Court in Manhattan by President Richard M. Nixon in 1971 and took the bench in January 1972. The move capped a career in which he had served as assistant district attorney in Manhattan, chief of the criminal division of the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan and a member of the Knapp Commission investigating police corruption in New York City.
        While on the bench, he presided over the tax-evasion trial of Aniello Dellacroce, a member of the Gambino crime family. He also was the judge at the bank robbery trial of Joanne D. Chesimard and Fred Hilton, reputed members of the Black Liberation Army, and presided at the prosecution of two members of the Jewish Defense League accused of bombing the Manhattan offices of Sol Hurok and Columbia Artists Inc.
        He served at the bribery trial of the New York lawyer Edmund Rosner - a case in which Robert Leuci, later the subject of the film ''Prince of the City,'' was the key witness. Resignation Over Salary
        Contending that it was ''economically impossible'' for him to remain on the bench, Mr. Bauman resigned in 1974. Later he remained active in the campaign to increase Federal judicial salaries.
        Upon leaving the court, he became head of the litigation department at Shearman & Sterling, then New York's largest law firm. He stepped down from that position in 1985, though he remained a partner at the firm and continued handling cases.
        Mr. Bauman was born in Manhattan on July 25, 1914. He attended James Madison High School, St. John's University and the New York University Law School. Upon completing his law studies in 1937, he found his first job as special assistant to Thomas E. Dewey, then New York City's special rackets prosecutor. He became part of the illustrious team of young lawyers known as ''Dewey's Boys.''
        Others in the group included Frank Hogan, later District Attorney of Manhattan; Murray Gurfein and Whitman A. Knapp, both later Federal judges in Manhattan; William P. Rogers, President Nixon's Secretary of State, and Charles D. Breitel and Stanley Fuld, both Chief Judges of New York. On District Attorney's Staff
        When Mr. Dewey left the post the following year to become District Attorney of Manhattan, Mr. Bauman accompanied him as an assistant.
        After four and a half years in the Navy during World War II, from which he was discharged as a lieutenant commander, Mr. Bauman returned to New York in 1945 and spent two years working under District Attorney Hogan. He spent the next four years in private practice and then, in 1951, was named chief counsel of a committee headed by Senator Matthew M. Neely of West Virginia, which investigated crime and police corruption in the District of Columbia.
        In 1953 Mr. Bauman was named an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan in charge of the criminal division. Among those he prosecuted were Joseph P. Ryan, former president of the International Longshoremen's Association, who was convicted of taking payoffs in violation of the Taft-Hartley Act.
        Mr. Bauman was a past president of the Federal Bar Council, a member of the American College of Trial Lawyers and was active in the City Bar Association in New York.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Bernice Rechtman; a daughter, Jane B. Phillips of Berkeley, Calif.; a son, William K., of Van Nuys, Calif., and a grandson.
      