
       Walter Hoving, the sometimes imperious, always self-confident head of Tiffany & Company from 1955 to 1980, died yesterday morning at Newport (R.I.) Hospital, where he was admitted Nov. 14. He was 91 years old.
        Walter Hoving, the sometimes imperious, always self-confident head of Tiffany & Company from 1955 to 1980, died yesterday morning at Newport (R.I.) Hospital, where he was admitted Nov. 14. He was 91 years old.
        A former resident of Manhattan, he had lived year round in Newport for the last year.
        Mr. Hoving resolutely maintained Tiffany's and his standards, which included no diamond rings for men, no silver plate and no charge accounts for customers found being rude to the salespeople.
        His firmness in matters of taste took Tiffany's from $7 million worth of business in 1955 to $100 million for the Fifth Avenue store and its five branches in 1980, when he stepped down as chairman.
        Perhaps the most-often-repeated story about Mr. Hoving involves President John F. Kennedy's request in 1962 for 32 Lucite calendar mementos to be presented to close aides who had worked with him on the Cuban missile crisis. Mr. Hoving's precise words in reply differ from version to version, but his meaning was clear: ''We don't sell plastic.''
        In the end, Tiffany's got the order, anyway - to make the mementos in silver. An Exception to the Rule
        The only exception to the no-silver-plate rule during Mr. Hoving's tenure at Tiffany's - small pins with the message, ''Try God'' - illuminated another facet of Mr. Hoving's character: his conviction that he was guided by God during his entire career.
        His conviction of the correctness of his taste allowed him to give great freedom to designers, both those who created jewelry, like Jean Schlumberger, Angela Cummings or Elsa Peretti, and those like Gene Moore, who designed Tiffany's eye-catching windows.
        ''Design what you think is beautiful,'' he told them, ''and don't worry about selling it. That's our job.''
        No item was too small to escape his notice. No cellophane tape, he decreed, was to be used in gift-wrapping boxes with that special Tiffany blue paper, and there were to be no knots securing the white bows.
        A tall and distinguished-looking man, always impeccably tailored, Mr. Hoving was not hesitant about expressing his tastes outside the store. He won the battle against a plan to put a cafe in a corner of Central Park, and he lost the fight against making Fifth Avenue one-way. Skeptical of Taxes
        A man of conservative political bent, he expressed his opinions in various ways. In one year's annual report, he commented on the taxes paid by the store, saying, ''It is our hope, but not our expectation, that these sums will be spent with due diligence and a modicum of wisdom.''
        He used Tiffany advertisements as a soapbox, too. Some of them he wrote as little essays with titles like ''Is Profit a Dirty Word?'' In another he assailed the First National City Bank for its ''loud and vulgar Christmas tree'' and urged the bank to practice ''good esthetics.'' In yet another he attacked as unconscionable the hoarding of silver, an unmistakable reference to the Hunt empire's efforts to corner the silver market in 1980.
        ''Every store must have a point of view,'' Mr. Hoving said in a 1973 interview. ''Generally it doesn't.''
        Tiffany's did. ''We don't claim to have the best taste in America,'' he said. ''But we do say it is our taste.'' Selling 'Esthetic Excitement'
        The concept of ''esthetic excitement'' was supremely important to him, and he was able to make it sell. ''Give the customer what Tiffany likes, because what it likes, the public ought to like,'' was his motto. His skill was in somehow making the public want to like it, and pay for it.
        Tiffany & Company was a publicly owned company until it was acquired in 1979 by Avon Products. Mr. Hoving's resignation the following year was one of a series of management changes stemming from the Avon takeover.
        In 1984, Tiffany & Company was bought by private investors, and in 1987 it again became publicly owned. Its stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. An Immigrant From Stockholm
        Mr. Hoving was born in Stockholm on Dec. 2, 1897, the son of a surgeon and an opera singer. He was brought to the United States with his parents in 1903 and attended the Barnard School and De Witt Clinton High School in New York City. He received a bachelor's degree from Brown University in 1920.
        In 1924, after working at various jobs, Mr. Hoving found his field: merchandising. He went to work for R. H. Macy & Company in the training program and was an immediate success. By the age of 30, he was a vice president. He also underwent his own training program to polish his knowledge of the arts. For four years, he took courses at the Metropolitan Museum in subjects like painting, textile design, old silver and furniture.
        When he went to Montgomery Ward & Company as vice president in charge of sales in 1932, he set up a bureau of design to overhaul Ward's catalogue. He left the mail-order house in 1936 to go to Lord & Taylor , where he was president until 1946. A Design Test for Hiring
        Mr. Hoving continued to stress the great importance of design, reportedly asking job-seekers to choose between well and badly designed objects and hiring them or rejecting them on the basis of their taste.
        In 1946 he founded the Hoving Corporation, whose properties came to include Bonwit Teller, the department store, until he sold it in 1960.
        In 1955 he bought control of Tiffany's, which at the time seemed to many to be on the brink of going out of business. He started his regime by getting rid of everything in the store that did not meet his standards, holding a giant sale - the first in the store's history -of everything from silver matchbook covers at $6.75 to a diamond and emerald brooch marked down to $29,700.
        Under his guidance, the faltering store reacquired its cachet and a new popularity - Tiffany's salesclerks were under orders to treat everyone, even the most obvious browser, as a potential customer - until by Christmas 1980, its aisles were jammed with shoppers. Author of 'Table Manners'
        Mr. Hoving's writings included the book ''Tiffany's Table Manners for Teen-Agers.''
        His 1924 marriage to Mary Osgood Field ended in divorce in 1936, He married his second wife, Pauline Vandervoort Rogers, in 1937. She died in 1976.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former singer and actress Jane Pickens Langley, whom he married in 1977; a son and a daughter by his first marriage, Thomas Hoving - the editor of Connoisseur magazine, who is a former New York City Parks Commissioner and a former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art - and Petrea Hoving Durand, both of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
        A private family funeral service will be held today in Newport. A memorial service is to be held in January in Manhattan. The date and place have not yet been chosen.
      