
       Dr. Marcus David Kogel, the founding dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and a former Commissioner of Hospitals in New York City, died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at his daughter's home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Dr. Marcus David Kogel, the founding dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and a former Commissioner of Hospitals in New York City, died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at his daughter's home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Dr. Kogel, an authority on public health and preventive medicine, came to Einstein College in 1954, before the medical school was built in the Bronx. He was named the founding dean in 1955 and held the post until 1967. He once described himself as ''just the mechanic who put things together.'' The school was the first medical school built in the city since the turn of the century.
        ''Dr. Kogel was a feisty, insightful, get-things-done leader who got a new medical school off to a running start,'' said Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, the current dean. ''He attracted such an outstanding faculty that we were prestigious from Day 1. For a medical school, that's phenomenal.''
        While at Einstein, he also established the Department of Preventive and Environmental Medicine and was its chairman from 1954 to 1960. He also served as dean of the Sue Golding Graduate Division of Medical Sciences and was later named vice president for medical affairs and science of Yeshiva University. He also served as chairman of Yeshiva University's Executive Council and the academic council of the graduate schools. Came to U.S. From Austria
        From 1949 to 1953, Dr. Kogel served as New York City's Commissioner of Hospitals. Before that, he was director of the department's bureau of medicine and hospital services.
        Born in Austria on Sept. 28, 1903, he came to the United States when he was 10 years old. He attended City College and Columbia University before getting his medical degree from New York Medical College in 1927. He was chief resident physician of Metropolitan Hospital in Manhattan from 1927 to 1929 and medical superintendent of Queens Hospital and of Cumberland Hospital.
        During World War II, he served as an colonel in the Army, first as director of the department of military sanitation at the Medical Field Service School in Carlisle, Pa., and later as medical inspector and chief of preventive medicine in China, where he was awarded the Legion of Merit for his efforts in combating a cholera epidemic.
        His first wife, Fannie, died in 1976 and he is survived by his second wife, Dora; two daughters, Dr. Isobel Pollack of Croton-on-Hudson and Dr. Joan Roskin of Roslyn Estates, L. I.; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      