
       Frank L. Mingo, chairman and chief executive of the Mingo Group Inc., one of the nation's largest black-owned and minority-oriented advertising agencies, died of heart failure Monday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 49 years old and lived in Stamford.
        Frank L. Mingo, chairman and chief executive of the Mingo Group Inc., one of the nation's largest black-owned and minority-oriented advertising agencies, died of heart failure Monday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 49 years old and lived in Stamford.
        Mr. Mingo had been hospitalized since suffering a stroke on Sept. 23.
        He founded the agency as Mingo-Jones Advertising Inc. in 1977. Since then, he has handled accounts that ranged from Kentucky Fried Chicken to Greyhound Corporation to a $3 million effort to reach black voters for the Presidential campaign of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts.
        Mr. Mingo built the company from a small shop with four employees and $600,000 in annual billings to an operation with 50 employees and annual billings of $60 million. From Jackson to Dukakis
        While he had initially hoped to produce advertisements directed at all consumers, he later estimated that 70 percent of his billings were from accounts aimed at reaching minority audiences.
        Mr. Mingo was also chairman of Muse Cordero Chen, a Los Angeles advertising agency.
        Previously, he was a vice president at McCann-Erickson Inc. and had worked at J. Walter Thompson. Mr. Mingo, who was born in Chicago, graduated from Roosevelt University and received a master's degree from Northwestern University.
        He won several industry awards, including the H. K. McCann Award and the Robert E. Healy Award. He worked as a consultant for black advertising for the Committee to Re-Elect Carter-Mondale in 1980 and was an adviser to the Rev. Jesse Jackson's 1984 Presidential campaign.
        In explaining why he cast his lot with the Dukakis campaign in 1988, Mr. Mingo said in an interview: ''Michael Dukakis, I believe, can be elected President of the United States. That explains how in my heart I can be close to Jesse and work for Dukakis.''
        Mr. Mingo was chairman of the Medgar Evers College Foundation and a member of the board of the Urban League of Lower Fairfield County in Connecticut. He was also a member of the Municipal Film Commission in Stamford.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Sheila Breckenridge; two sons, Michael, of Los Angeles, and Justin, of Stamford, and two brothers, Charles, of Homewood, Ill., and Clifton, of Matteson, Ill.
      