
       Irving S. Friedman, an international economist who held high positions in the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, died of a heart attack on Monday in Bethesda, Md. He was 74 years and lived in Bethesda.
        Irving S. Friedman, an international economist who held high positions in the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, died of a heart attack on Monday in Bethesda, Md. He was 74 years and lived in Bethesda.
        Dr. Friedman began his career in 1941 in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury. In World War II he was a financial adviser to the United States Army headquarters in Chongqing, China.
        He joined the International Monetary Fund in Washington in 1946 as chief of the United States-Canada Division and later became a senior department director, heading missions to member countries.
        In 1950, Dr. Friedman became director of the Exchange Restrictions Department of the monetary fund, where he developed and carried out policies involving exchange rates, restrictions on international payments and multiple currency practices. In 1964 he became economic adviser to the president of the World Bank and chairman of its economic committee. Banking Posts
        Dr. Friedman joined Citibank in Manhattan in 1974 as senior vice president and senior adviser for international operations. In 1980 he joined the First Boston Corporation as senior international adviser and a member of the international advisory board. In the 1980's he also held senior advisory positions with the African, Asian and Inter-American Development Banks and other public and commercial financial institutions.
        In 1971 he became a Quondam Fellow of All Souls College at Oxford University and a visiting professor at Yale University. He was also a visiting professor at the University of Virginia and Fordham University and lectured abroad and in Canada.
        He was a former president of the Society for International Development, chairman of Washington Capital Markets Group, the Center of Concern and the Population Resource Center, and a director of the Resource Development Fund. He received the medal of honor from the World Business Council in 1982.
        He was the author of many articles and books on economics, including ''Toward World Prosperity: Reshaping the Global Monetary System'' (Lexington Books, 1987) and ''The World Debt Dilemma: Managing Country Risk'' (Robert Morris Associates, 1983).
        Dr. Friedman. who was born in Manhattan, received bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Columbia University, where he was a University Fellow.
        He is survived by his wife, Edna; two sons, Kenneth of Bethesda, and John of Frederick, Md.; a sister, Esther Wachs of Sunrise, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      