
       Michael Harwood, an author and naturalist, died of an embolism Friday at the University of California at San Diego Medical Center, where he had undergone arterial surgery. He was 55 years old and a resident of Washington, Conn.
        Michael Harwood, an author and naturalist, died of an embolism Friday at the University of California at San Diego Medical Center, where he had undergone arterial surgery. He was 55 years old and a resident of Washington, Conn.
        Mr. Harwood's best-known work was a travelogue-biography, ''On the Road With John James Audubon,'' written with his wife, Mary Durant and published by Dodd Mead & Company in 1980. The writers retraced Audubon's travels in North America, making vivid comparisons between the ornithologist's early 19th-century world and contemporary people, places and natural life.
        Specializing in natural history and environmental issues, Mr. Harwood wrote several other books, including ''View from Hawk Mountain'' and ''The View from Great Gull.''
        Related to his passion for birds was his concern for what he called ''the age of oil spills.'' In an article titled ''The Rising Tide of Oil Spills,'' published in The New York Times Magazine in 1978, he noted that with nearly 4,000 ships carrying some 11 billion barrels of oil each year, new disasters were a mathematical certainty.
        Born in Boston, Mr. Harwood attended the Putney School in Vermont and graduated from Harvard in 1956. Won Science Writers Award
        Mr. Harwood won the National Science Writers Award in 1979 for his article ''Oil and Water,'' published in Harper's Magazine. He also won the William Burroughs Award from the American Museum of Natural History in New York for ''On the Road With John James Audubon.''
        He was past president of the Hawk Migration Association of North America and a member of the board of the Hawk Mountain Sanctuary at Kempton, Pa. In Washington, Conn., he was chairman of the Inland Wetland Committee and the Solid Waste Commission.
        He is survived by his wife and three sisters, Anne Layzer of Mill Valley, Calif., Daphne Harwood of Vancouver, British Columbia, and Lynne Harwood of Anson, Me.
      