
       Leonard B. Boudin, a civil liberties lawyer who in more than 50 years of practice defended a number of controversial clients, including Julian Bond, Paul Robeson, Benjamin Spock and Daniel Ellsberg, died at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan late Friday after a heart attack. He was 77 years old.
        Leonard B. Boudin, a civil liberties lawyer who in more than 50 years of practice defended a number of controversial clients, including Julian Bond, Paul Robeson, Benjamin Spock and Daniel Ellsberg, died at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan late Friday after a heart attack. He was 77 years old.
        ''Leonard was a role model for many lawyers not just because of his education and scholarship but because of his incredible curiosity and interest in matters of history and politics that transcend the law,'' said Leonard I. Weinglass, another lawyer specializing in civil rights cases.
        Mr. Boudin was born in Brooklyn. He went to City College and received his law degree from St. John's Law School in 1936. A year later, he married Jean Roisman, a poet, and he was taken into legal practice by his uncle, Louis Boudin, a well-known constitutional lawyer and an influential figure in the Socialist Party.
        ''He was a powerful figure for Leonard,'' said Jamie Kalven, a journalist working on a biography of Mr. Boudin.
        Much of Mr. Boudin's work for his uncle involved union law, and in the late 1940's he and another young lawyer from the firm, Victor Rabinowitz, started their own labor law firm. They ventured into civil liberties law when an early provision of the Taft-Hartley Act forced union leaders to swear under oath that they were not Communists. Won Passport Case
        Mr. Boudin later defended a number of controversial clients who were involved in civil liberties issues, including Mr. Robeson, the singer and actor.His best-known legal victory came in 1958, when the Supreme Court ruled in Kent v. Dulles that passports cannot be withheld by the State Department for political reasons.
        ''Boudin's great contribution came during the McCarthy era during the 1950's, when he kept his constitutional bearings and acted as a guardian of important public values at a time of general institutional default,'' Mr. Kalven said.
        Mr. Boudin defended Mr. Ellsberg, who was charged with theft in connection with the Pentagon Papers, a large collection of classified Government and military papers documenting the history of the United States' involvement in Vietnam.
        He represented Mr. Bond, who was denied a seat in the Georgia House of Representatives because of his opposition to the Vietnam War, and Dr. Spock, an antiwar leader who was charged with conspiracy to violate the Selective Service Act.
        He served as lawyer for Jimmy Hoffa when the one-time union leader was banned from labor activities as a condition of his prison release. And he represented Cuba's interests in the United States for the last 30 years and the Central Bank of Iran during the Iran hostage crisis. Daughter Imprisoned
        Mr. Boudin was the father of Kathy Boudin, 46, a member of the radical Weather Underground, who pleaded guilty to a murder charge for her involvement in the 1981 robbery of an armored truck in New York's Rockland County in which a guard and two police officers were killed. She is serving a 20-year term in the state prison in Bedford Hills, N.Y.
        Before the robbery, Ms. Boudin was wanted by the police for questioning about a 1970 bomb explosion at a Greenwich Village town house. Three members of the Weather Underground, a militant offshoot of the Students for a Democratic Society, were killed.
        Mr. Boudin ''was very by saddened'' by his daughter's imprisonment. ''There is no more to say than that,'' said Mr. Boudin's son, Michael, 49, a deputy assistant attorney general in the antitrust division of the Justice Department and a lecturer at Harvard Law School.
        Mr. Boudin, who lived for the last 50 years on St. Marks Place in the East Village, was a visiting lecturer at Harvard Law School, Stanford Law School and Boalt School of Law at the University of California at Berkeley.
        In addition to his wife, son and daughter, Mr. Boudin is survived by a brother, Arthur, a marketing consultant in Ridgewood, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      