
       Rene Moawad, the President of Lebanon, who was assassinated yesterday in a car bombing in Beirut, was a Maronite Christian who advocated coexistence with Muslims and acknowledged the importance of the Syrian role in Lebanon. He was 64 years old.
        Rene Moawad, the President of Lebanon, who was assassinated yesterday in a car bombing in Beirut, was a Maronite Christian who advocated coexistence with Muslims and acknowledged the importance of the Syrian role in Lebanon. He was 64 years old.
        Mr. Moawad was elected President of Lebanon on Nov. 5 at a special session of Parliament.
        Mr. Moawad, Lebanon's ninth President, had pledged to carry out an accord reached last month at Taif, Saudi Arabia, that provides for equal distribution of power between the country's Muslims, now believed to form a majority of the population, and its Christians, who have dominated the Government since the country gained independence from France in 1943. He had called for all factions in Lebanon to work together to reunify the country and urged acceptance of a Syrian role in the country's future. Saw Active Syrian Role
        ''There is no solution to the Lebanese ordeal without the active help of Syria, to which Lebanon is bound geographically, historically and nationally,'' he had been quoted as saying.
        ''This is the major catastrophy of the years of catastrophies we have had so far,'' said Chawki Choueri, Lebanon's representative in the United Nations. ''We may have lost one of the last opportunities to unite the nation.''
        Born in 1925 at Zgharta, a Maronite Christian town about 35 miles north of Bierut, Rene Moawad received his elementary education in Tripoli and attended high school in Aintoura. He received a law degree from the Jesuit-run University of St. Joseph in Beirut in 1947 and went into private practice. He later became involved in politics and in 1957 was elected as a deputy to Parliament from his home town. He was re-elected in 1960, 1968 and 1972 and was a member of Parliament at the time of his election to the presidency. He was one of the legislators who took part in the Taif negotiations.
        While in Parliament, he served in a variety of posts, including president of the Budget and Finance Commission since 1960; Postal Telephone and Telegraph Minister in 1960; as Minister of Public Works and Transport in 1969, and as Minister of Education and Fine Arts from 1980 to 1982.
        He is survived by his wife, Nayla Issa al-Khoury, and two children, Rima and Michel.
      