
       Prof. Salo Wittmayer Baron, who was recognized as one of the century's great historical scholars for his sweeping multivolume history of the Jews, died of congestive heart failure early yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94 years old.
        Prof. Salo Wittmayer Baron, who was recognized as one of the century's great historical scholars for his sweeping multivolume history of the Jews, died of congestive heart failure early yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94 years old.
        ''He was undoubtedly the greatest Jewish historian of the 20th century,'' said Yosef Hayim Yerushalmi, a former student of Professor Baron's who now holds the Salo Wittmayer Baron Chair of Jewish History, Culture and Society at Columbia University. The chair was established in 1979 to honor the scholar, who had taught there from 1930 until his retirement in 1963.
        Arthur Hertzberg, another former student, who will officiate at Professor Baron's funeral tomorrow, said, ''He was equally at home in everything from ancient history to the modern era, and the major father of Jewish historical studies in the United States.''
        On April 24, 1961, Professor Baron set the historic framework for the Israeli prosecution's case against Adolf Eichmann. In a manner both learned and passionate, he testified at the Nazi official's Jerusalem trial about anti-Semitism, European Jewry and what the Nazis had done to it. Suffering, but Joy Too
        Professor Baron wrote 13 works on Jewish history, many of them multivolume efforts. He edited four other books and produced hundreds of articles and addresses.
        His magnum opus was ''A Social and Religious History of the Jews'' (Columbia University Press), which began as a series of lectures, turned into a three-volume overview of Jewish history published in 1937 and finally grew into a revised version, of which 18 volumes have been published.
        Well into his 90's, Professor Baron labored on volume 19, and he had projected at least two more volumes carrying the account of Jewish life through 1650.
        Besides his enormous learning and energy, Professor Baron brought very distinctive views to his scholarship. He inveighed against what he termed the ''lachrymose conception of Jewish history,'' sometimes identified with Heinrich Graetz, a great 19th-century Jewish historian who found the main elements of Jewish experience through the ages to be suffering and spiritual scholarship.
        ''Suffering is part of the destiny'' of the Jews, Professor Baron said in an interview in 1975, ''but so is repeated joy as well as ultimate redemption.''
        He always fought against the view of Jewish history as ''all darkness and no light,'' Mr. Yerushalmi said. ''He labored mightily to restore balance.'' 'Writing Social History'
        Professor Baron also strove to integrate the religious dimension of Jewish history into a full picture of Jewish life and to integrate the history of Jews into the wider history of the eras and societies in which they lived.
        ''Salo Baron was writing social history, insisting that spiritual creativity and the political situation were all borne by a living society and its changing forms,'' Mr. Hertzberg said. ''Although he himself came from the rabbinic aristocracy, he was always sensitive to the creativity and courage of lower classes.''
        Mr. Hertzberg compared Professor Baron to great 19th-century historians like Theodor Mommsen and Leopold von Ranke. ''He wrote history in the grand manner but with modern notions about what society is like and what is the matrix out of which ideas spring,'' he said. Learned 20 Languages
        Professor Baron was born on May 26, 1895, in Tarnow, today situated in Poland but then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. His family was educated and affluent, part of the Jewish aristocracy of Galicia. His father was a banker and president of the Jewish community of 16,000.
        At the Eichmann trial in 1961, Professor Baron put his case for the unprecedented character of the Holocaust in personal terms when he noted that 20,000 Jews lived in Tarnow before the war but that after Hitler, there were no more than 20. His parents and a sister were killed there.
        As a child, the future scholar quickly made his talents evident, learning chess at 3, writing Hebrew poetry at 12, and adding Yiddish, Biblical and modern Hebrew, French and German to his first language, Polish. Eventually he learned 20 languages and could lecture - as he always did, without notes - in five.
        In secondary schools, he was outstanding in physics and mathematics, but as his views swung between Polish nationalism, rigorous religious Orthodoxy and Zionism, he fixed on studying Jewish history as a way ''to do something for the Jewish people,'' he told an interviewer in 1982.
        Not only did the young man pursue rabbinical studies - he was ordained at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Vienna in 1920 - but he earned three doctorates from the University of Vienna, in philosophy in 1917, in political science in 1922 and in law in 1923. Teaching at Columbia
        After teaching at the Jewish Teachers College in Vienna in 1926, he was invited by Rabbi Stephen S. Wise to teach at the Jewish Institute of Religion in New York. In 1930, he began to teach at Columbia in the newly established Miller Chair of Jewish History, Literature and Institutions.
        Besides pursuing his scholarly work, Professor Baron was active in organizational efforts to maintain and strengthen the Jewish community both before and after World War II. From 1950 to 1968, he directed the Center of Israel and Jewish Studies at Columbia. He received more than a dozen honorary degrees from universities in the United States, Europe and Israel and was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        In 1933, Jeannette Meisel, a graduate student in economics, consulted him about a dissertation she was writing. They married in 1934, and Jeannette Baron became a collaborator in his scholarly work.
        ''He and his wife, in their heyday, were a kind of partnership,'' Mr. Hertzberg recalled. ''She helped with every one of his books, and they signed a couple of monographs together. Their apartment on Claremont Avenue was a place to which everybody in Jewish life eventually came. To be part of their circle was somehow to be part of the great tradition of Jewish scholarship.'' Mrs. Baron died in 1985.  Professor Baron is survived by two daughters, Shoshana Baron Tancer of Phoenix and Tobey Baron Gitelle of Manhattan; a sister, Tanya Horowitz of Pittsburgh; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      