
       Harold A. Knapp, a Defense Department analyst who uncovered risks from fallout in nuclear testing in the 1950's and initiated the reversal of a rape conviction of three black men in the 1960's, died of a form of cancer that attacks the spine on Wednesday at his home in Germantown, Md. He was 65 years old.
        Harold A. Knapp, a Defense Department analyst who uncovered risks from fallout in nuclear testing in the 1950's and initiated the reversal of a rape conviction of three black men in the 1960's, died of a form of cancer that attacks the spine on Wednesday at his home in Germantown, Md. He was 65 years old.
        Dr. Knapp's work on nuclear testing began when he was with the Atomic Energy Commission's branch on fallout studies, and continued until earlier this year, when failing health curtailed his activities. In 1975 the A.E.C. and its regulatory and licensing functions were assigned to its successor, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
        Thousands of sheep died in 1953 in Nevada and Utah after an above-ground nuclear test. A decade later, Dr. Knapp wrote a report for the commission concluding that infants had been exposed to dangerous levels of radiation when they drank milk from cows that had eaten contaminated matter.
        The report was suppressed by the commission and Dr. Knapp resigned, joining the privately financed Institute for Defense Analyses. He continued to study the fallout issue and testified at trials in which sheep ranchers and people who said their health had been harmed by the testing sued the Government without success. Affidavits and Petitions
        Dr. Knapp undertook the cause of the black men accused of rape in rural Maryland as a private citizen. In 1961, when Joseph Johnson, James Giles and his brother John were sentenced to death after they were convicted by an all-white jury, Dr. Knapp wrote a letter to a newspaper that led to correspondence between him and one of the defendants.
        Dr. Knapp began an investigation that lasted for several years, interviewing people connected with the case and uncovering new evidence. He collected affidavits challenging the story of the alleged victim, a 15-year-old white girl with a history of mental instability and sexual promiscuity.
        Dr. Knapp wrote a report citing discrepancies and contrary evidence, and other interested citizens circulated petitions that drew 6,700 signatures calling for a new trial.
        Gov. J. Millard Tawes commuted the sentences to life imprisonment. A second trial was called off after the girl refused to testify and prosecutors admitted mistakes in their handling of the case. The defendants were freed.
        Dr. Knapp, a native of Berlin, N.H., received bachelor's and doctoral degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After service in the Army in World War II, he worked for the Navy Department before joining the A.E.C. in 1955. He was with the Institute of Defense Analyses from 1963 until 1981, when he returned to government service.
        At his retirement from the Defense Communications Agency last March he was awarded the Defense Medal for Meritorious Civilian Service.
        Dr. Knapp is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Baldwin; two daughters, Emilie Crown of Rockville, Md., and Kristina Corn of Bishop, Ga.; a son, Gunnar Knapp, of Anchorage; a sister, Barbara Bull of Burlington, Vt.; a brother, Henry, of Tucson, Ariz., and five grandchildren.
      