
       Arthur J. Holland, the Mayor of Trenton for 26 years and a former president of the United States Conference of Mayors, died of cancer yesterday at the St. Francis Medical Center in Trenton. He was 71 years old.
        Arthur J. Holland, the Mayor of Trenton for 26 years and a former president of the United States Conference of Mayors, died of cancer yesterday at the St. Francis Medical Center in Trenton. He was 71 years old.
        Mayor Holland, a Democrat, was a staunch advocate for cities. He stepped down last June as president of the mayors conference.
        In 1964 he received national attention when he moved with his wife and infant daughter into 14-room, 100-year-old colonial house in the deteriorating and racially mixed Mercer-Jackson section of Trenton known as Mill Hill.
        ''This is not a popular move,'' he acknowledged at the time. ''The average person feels it's very foolish, and some members of my own family have looked askance.'' Stayed in the Neighborhood
        ''I hope that as a result of this, some white families who might otherwise panic when Negroes move into their neighborhood will have some second thoughts,'' Mayor Holland said.
        Shortly afterward the area began to stabilize as other white families moved in and other residents spruced up their properties. The Mayor held fast to his decision, even after a socially prominent woman, Emma Jane Stockton, was murdered in the neighborhood in 1979 and his home was burglarized in 1981. He moved out of the neighborhood in 1986.
        Arthur John Holland was born in Trenton on Oct. 24, 1918. He studied for the priesthood but was not ordained. He graduated from St. Francis College and later received a master's degree in public administration from Rutgers University. He worked as a research analyst with several opinion research concerns in Princeton before entering government service in 1951.
        He served as deputy director of public affairs for the city, was elected to the City Council in 1955 and became mayor in 1959. Except for the period from 1966 to 1970, after he lost an election to Carmen J. Armenti, he governed New Jersey's capital city ever since.
        While out of office he worked as a consultant and taught at Rutgers University Urban Studies Center. During this time, Trenton was wracked by racial disturbances and he was re-elected in 1970.
        Mayor Holland presided over a financially troubled city, helped pave the way for redevelopment of many neighborhoods, installed a controversial two-block pedestrian mall in the heart of the city and nursed Trenton through floods and a severe water shortage when intake pumps broke and the water supply to the city's 250,000 residents was reduced to a trickle.
        Gov. Thomas H. Kean yesterday ordered that flags on state buildings be flown at half-staff for three days in memory of Mayor Holland.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; two daughters, Cynthia, of Trenton and Elise, of Boston; three sons, Matthew and Timothy, of Trenton and Christopher, of Manhattan, and a sister, Sister Ruth, of North Plainfield, N.J.
      