
       John Kaplan, a law professor and author best known for his legal analyses of some of the country's most distressing and controversial social ills, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 60 years old.
        John Kaplan, a law professor and author best known for his legal analyses of some of the country's most distressing and controversial social ills, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 60 years old.
        He combined his training as a scientist with his trial lawyer's experience and took a scholarly look at private behavior, like the use of marijuana and alcohol, and how the criminal laws deal with it.
        For the past 24 years, Mr. Kaplan taught at Stanford University, where he held the Jackson Eli Reynolds Professorship of Law. The 1989 graduating class of the Stanford Law School voted him the school's John Bingham Hurlbut award for excellence in teaching. The award is given annually to a law professor who endeavors to ''make teaching an art.'' His peers in the Stanford University Senate elected him their chairman for 1988-89. Teacher and Adviser
        A generation of Stanford law students was introduced to criminal law in Mr. Kaplan's first-year course on the subject. He taught advanced courses on evidence, criminal procedure and criminology, and a popular undergraduate course on criminal justice and the justice system.
        Mr. Kaplan was often consulted by government groups on drug laws and similar subjects. He recently served on the committee of the National Academy of Sciences and National Research Council studying the use of animals in medical experiments.
        Mr. Kaplan contended that laws and prohibitions to regulate private behavior, like the use of marijuana, will not prevent abuse and in fact may make things worse. His book ''Marijuana: The New Prohibition,'' published in 1970, was an encyclopedic analysis of the scientific, political, legal and historical aspects of the topic. Social Costs of Drug Laws
        Trying to outlaw marijuana, he argued, does not work and poses serious social costs by alienating a whole generation and branding many millions of people as felons.
        Mr. Kaplan was also the author of ''The Hardest Drug: Heroin and Public Policy,'' published in 1983.
        A native of New York City, Mr. Kaplan earned a bachelor's degree in physics from Harvard University and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, where he was a member of the Harvard Law Review. In 1954-55, he served as a clerk to Associate Justice Tom C. Clark of the United States Supreme Court and went on to study criminology in Vienna.
        Before joining the Stanford Law faculty in 1965, he also served as a Federal prosecutor and taught law at Northwestern University and the University of California at Berkeley.
        Mr. Kaplan is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; three children, Carolyn Springer Kaplan, Jonathan Edward Kaplan and Jessica Baron Kaplan, all of Palo Alto, and his mother, Dorothy Kaplan of New York.
        Correction:  November 27, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary in some editions Saturday about John Kaplan, a law professor and author, omitted the name of a survivor. He is a brother, Benjamin, of Brooklyn.
      