
       Oliver Francis Naquin, a retired rear admiral who was one of 33 men rescued by an experimental diving bell when the submarine Squalus sank in the Atlantic Ocean in 1939, died of a pancreatic disorder Monday at the medical center at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. He was 85 years old and lived in Arlington,
        Oliver Francis Naquin, a retired rear admiral who was one of 33 men rescued by an experimental diving bell when the submarine Squalus sank in the Atlantic Ocean in 1939, died of a pancreatic disorder Monday at the medical center at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. He was 85 years old and lived in Arlington, Va.
        Admiral Naquin, who retired in 1955 after a 34-year career in the Navy, was commander of the Squalus when the two-day rescue operation off Portsmouth, N.H., captured worldwide attention.
        He was a 35-year-old lieutenant when the Squalus sank in 240 feet of water during routine sea trials on the morning of May 23, 1939. Twenty-six men, including two civilian technicians, were trapped in a flooded aft compartment and died.
        The remaining 32 naval personnel and a third civilian spent up to 39 hours in the sunken vessel before they were brought to the surface by a rescue chamber being used for the first time. The Squalus was later refloated, repaired and returned to sea as the Sailfish, receiving credit for sinking seven enemy vessels in World War II. Survival at Pearl Harbor
        Survivors of the Squalus were brought up in four trips as the diving bell rode a cable attached to the forward escape hatch of the Squalus. A naval board of inquiry concluded that failure of an intake valve had caused flooding of the aft compartment.
        Admiral Naquin, born in New Orleans, was a 1925 graduate of the United States Naval Academy. He also survived Pearl Harbor while aboard the battleship California, which sank in shallow water after being struck a bomb and two torpedoes in the Japanese attack on Dec. 7, 1941.
        He later served as navigator of the heavy cruiser New Orleans in the battles of the Coral Sea and Midway. In the Solomon Islands in December 1942, when the cruiser was struck by a Japanese torpedo, blowing off 120 feet of the bow, he guided the ship to an American base for repairs and was awarded a Bronze Star for his role in saving the vessel.
        Admiral Naquin held several high staff positions after the war and at his retirement was the chief naval officer in the Military Assistance Advisory Group in Britain.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Frances Davis; a daughter, Lorraine Tyler of Washington; a son, Christopher, a retired Navy captain, of Zanoni, Va.; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      