
       Carlton B. Lees, a horticulturist and landscape architect who was a retired official of the New York Botanical Garden, died of hepatic cancer on Nov. 12 at his home in Pittsboro, N.C. He was 65 years old.
        Carlton B. Lees, a horticulturist and landscape architect who was a retired official of the New York Botanical Garden, died of hepatic cancer on Nov. 12 at his home in Pittsboro, N.C. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Lees joined the Botanical Garden in 1973 as vice president after serving with a number of horticultural institutions, staging exhibitions, teaching and writing widely in the field. In 1977, he was promoted to senior vice president and chief horticulturist, and for 16 months in 1979 and 1980 he served as acting chief executive officer of the Bronx garden. He presided over the restoration of its turn-of-the-century conservatory, later named for its benefactor, Enid A. Haupt.
        Mr. Lees, who was senior vice president of the National Wildflower Research Center, devoting most of his efforts since 1982 to planning the center founded by Lady Bird Johnson in Austin, Tex. 'Last Outposts of Reality'
        Throughout his career he stressed the need to preserve, restore and create outdoor environments for people.
        ''Gardens may the be last outposts of reality in an increasingly artificial world; they are necessary to our very existence,'' he wrote in his 1970 book, ''Gardens, Plants and Man.''
        He was adamantly opposed to static displays of plants and flowers. At the outset of the Haupt Conservatory project, he said: ''It's not enough just to line things up and put labels on them. I think of this as a place where people can come into contact with the plants in the most imaginative and exciting way that I can make possible.'' A Navy Veteran
        Mr. Lees, a native of North Canton, Conn., near Hartford, served in the Navy in World War II and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut. After graduate study at Cornell, he taught at West Virginia University and in 1954 was appointed horticulturist for the Kingswood Center in Mansfield, Ohio, a privately endowed cultural institution where he taught a landscaping course that led to his first book, ''Budget Landscaping,'' (1960).
        In 1959, he became executive secretary of the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society and he assumed a similar post four years later at the Massachusetts Horticultural Society in Boston, where he formed the nationwide Council on Botanical and Horticultural Libraries.
        After moving to New York in 1972, he staged many flower shows, including those in Bryant Park, and he planned garden courts for large buildings, including the bamboo garden of the I.B.M. Building on Madison Avenue.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marian Wicks; three sons, Peter, of Baltimore, Stephen, of Forest Hills, Queens, and James, of San Francisco; a daughter, Barbara Masciotti of Carmel, N.Y.; a sister, Wanda McBrien of Hilo, Hawaii, and seven grandchildren.
      