
       Richard C. Gallop, former president and chief operating officer of Columbia Pictures Industries, died of a brain tumor Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 51 years old and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and Gilford, N.H.
        Richard C. Gallop, former president and chief operating officer of Columbia Pictures Industries, died of a brain tumor Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 51 years old and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and Gilford, N.H.
        Mr. Gallop headed the Atlanta-based company, which was then owned by the Coca-Cola Company, from 1983 to 1986. Columbia Pictures has since been bought by the Sony Corporation of America.
        He left in October of 1986 to join Allen & Company, the Manhattan investment banking firm. With its shareholders and other investors, Allen & Company owned 25 percent of Columbia when it was sold to Coca-Cola. As managing director of Allen & Company, he dealt with general client relationships.
        Richard Charles Gallop was born in Manhattan, the son of Sally and M. Robert Gallop, a former partner in the law firm of Gallop, Climenko & Gould. Richard C. Gallop was an alumnus of the Phillips Academy at Andover, graduated cum laude from Williams College in 1960, and received a law degree from Harvard Law School in 1963.
        That same year, he joined the New York law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy as a partner, where he practiced financial law before going to Caplin & Drysdale, a Washington firm, in 1969. At both firms he was outside general counsel to Columbia when the financier Kirk Kerkorian made a bid for the company. Mr. Gallop joined Columbia in 1981 as senior vice president and general counsel.
        He was a trustee of Marymount College and of the Holderness School, a college preparatory school in Plymouth, N.H. He was a member of the Williams College finance committee and was on the board of overseers of Pace University Law School.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ann Morris McEldowney; two sons, Jeffrey, of Providence, R. I., and James, of Manhattan; his father, of Manhattan, and a sister, Barbara Gilbert, of Briarcliff Manor.
      