
       Roberto E. Arias, a Panamanian lawyer, diplomat and journalist who was the husband of Dame Morgot Fonteyn, the British ballerina, died of a heart attack yesterday morning at Paitilla Medical Center in Panama. He was 71 years old and lived on his ranch in El Higo outside Panama City.
        Roberto E. Arias, a Panamanian lawyer, diplomat and journalist who was the husband of Dame Morgot Fonteyn, the British ballerina, died of a heart attack yesterday morning at Paitilla Medical Center in Panama. He was 71 years old and lived on his ranch in El Higo outside Panama City.
        Dr. Arias, who served as his country's Ambassador to Britain after he and Miss Fonteyn were married in 1955, was a stormy figure in Panamanian politics who was involved in two sensatinoal incidents more than a quarter-century ago.
        A member of a family whose ancestors were among Panama's founding families and whose members were elected to the presidency four times, Dr. Arias was at the center of the country's convoluted politics for decades.
        In 1959 he and Dame Margot were charged with attempted gun-smuggling from their yacht off the coast of Panama and he was accused of fomenting a revolt against Ernesto de la Guardia Jr., who was then President. She was immediately deported to England; he took refuge in the Brazilian Embassy for two months before being given safe conduct out of the country. Eventually the charges were dropped and, after a governmental change, the couple were permitted to return to Panama. A Seat in the Assembly
        Resuming his political career, Dr. Arias won a seat in the National Assembly in his first run for elective office in May 1964. Two months later he was shot in an argument with a friend and former political associate, Alberto Jimenez, on a street corner in a suburb of Panama City, Paralyzed, he was treated for 18 months in British hospitals and spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair.
        Dr. Arias, who was known as ''Tito,'' was the son of Harmodio Arias, a former Panamanian President, and was educated at the Peddie School in Hightstown, N.J., and at St. John's College of Cambridge University.
        From 1942 to 1946 he edited La Hora, a family-owned newspaper. He then entered Panama's diplomatic service as counselor in the Panamanian Embassy in Chile. He returned to journalism a year later, and served as a delegate to the United Nations General Assembly in 1953.
        Shortly after he married Miss Fonteyn, who did not then have her title, he was appointed Ambassador to London. He resigned in 1958 when Mr. de la Guardia was elected President but was reappointed in 1960 and served for two more years.
        In addition to Dame Margot, Dr. Arias is survived by two daughters, Querube Brillembourg and Rosita Vallarino; two brothers, Harmodio and Gilberto; a sister, Rosario de Galindo, and six grandchildren. -
      