
       Stephen Edlich, a painter admired for his deft re-combination of elements from the classic era of European modernism, was found dead yesterday in his studio in Manhattan. He was 45 years old. A police spokesman said the cause of death had not been determined.
        Stephen Edlich, a painter admired for his deft re-combination of elements from the classic era of European modernism, was found dead yesterday in his studio in Manhattan. He was 45 years old. A police spokesman said the cause of death had not been determined.
        Mr. Edlich's gifts were recognized when he was shown at the Waddington Gallery in Montreal in 1969. In November 1975 his one-man show at the Gruenebaum Gallery in New York attracted favorable attention. Mating painting with sculpture, and making volume keep company with hue, the work was an adroit anthology of idioms from the heroic age of modern art.
        In 1976 an exhibition called ''Three Generations of American Painting,'' at both the Gruenebaum and the Gimpel & Weitzenhoffer Galleries, linked Mr. Edlich with Robert Motherwell and Richard Diebenkorn. In 1977 he moved to the Marlborough Gallery, where he had exhibitions in 1978, 1981, 1983 and 1985. His Work Is in Museums
        Mr. Edlich's work was acquired by the Brooklyn Museum, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Dallas Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh and others.
        More recently he busied himself with the invention of a worldwide laser-disk reference system for auction houses.
        He was born on April 9, 1944, the son of Dr. Theodore Edlich Jr. of Manhattan and the former Virginia Bargerhoff. He attended the McBurney School in Manhattan and graduated from New York University in 1968.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Marsha Hochberg; a son, Alexander; his father, and two brothers, Dr. Richard Edlich of Charlottesville, Va., and Theodore J, Edlich 3d of Roanoke, Va.
      