
       Alpheus Thomas Mason, McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence Emeritus at Princeton University and one of the country's foremost judicial biographers, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 90 years old.
        Alpheus Thomas Mason, McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence Emeritus at Princeton University and one of the country's foremost judicial biographers, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 90 years old.
        Dr. Mason was the author of 22 books, and his course in constitutional interpretation, offered in the politics department, was voted the school's toughest in student polls several times before he retired.
        Among his published works are four volumes on Associate Justice Louis D. Brandeis, another on Associate Justice Harlan F. Stone, one on Chief Justice William Howard Taft and several on critical periods and issues in the history of the Supreme Court. His ''Brandeis, A Free Man's Life,'' sold over 50,000 copies and remained on the best-seller list for five months in 1947.
        He received the American Library Association's Liberty and Justice Award for ''Harlan Fiske Stone: Pillar of the Law,'' described in the award as ''the most distinguished book of 1956 in history and biography.'' For the same book, he also received the Francis Parkman Prize in history. Taught After Retirement
        After he retired from Princeton in 1968, Dr. Mason went on to teach until 1980 at 15 institutions, including Harvard, Dartmouth, Barnard College, Johns Hopkins University and the University of Virginia.
        He was a graduate of Dickinson College and received a doctorate from Princeton in 1923. He joined the Princeton faculty in 1925 after two years of teaching at Trinity College (now Duke University), and he became a full professor in 1936.
        Dr. Mason was one of the few political scientists to hold a visiting membership at the Institute for Advanced Study in the 1930's. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1963 and served as vice president of the American Political Science Association.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Christine Este Gibbons; a daughter, Louise Bachelder of Princeton; three granddaughters, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 9, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Nov. 1 about Alpheus T. Mason, an emeritus professor of jurisprudence at Princeton University and biographer of judges, misidentified Harlan F. Stone, the subject of a Mason biography. He was Chief Justice of the United States, having earlier been an Associate Justice.
      