
       Clement F. Haynsworth Jr., the Federal judge whose nomination to the Supreme Court was rejected by the Senate in 1969 after a tense battle between the Nixon Administration and a coalition of labor and civil rights groups, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 77 years old.
        Clement F. Haynsworth Jr., the Federal judge whose nomination to the Supreme Court was rejected by the Senate in 1969 after a tense battle between the Nixon Administration and a coalition of labor and civil rights groups, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 77 years old.
        Judge Haynsworth, who joined the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in 1957, served as its chief judge for more than 16 years. Although he officially retired from the bench in 1981, he continued to serve until his death as a senior judge with a full-time calendar.
        Judge Haynsworth became the center of a national debate after President Richard M. Nixon nominated him to replace Associate Justice Abe Fortas of the United States Supreme Court. Justice Fortas was forced to resign over disclosures that he had agreed to accept a $20,000-a-year lifetime payment from a foundation set up by Louis E. Wolfson, a businessman who was later convicted and sentenced to prison for selling unregistered stock.
        The Fortas scandal and allegations of conflicts of interest involving Judge Haynsworth's business dealings led the Senate to treat the nomination as a test of ethical standards. Cajoling and Arm-Twisting
        Labor and civil rights groups, citing what they denounced as unfavorable rulings, fought the Haynsworth nomination while the Nixon Administration waged a strenuous campaign of cajoling and arm-twisting to win the Senate's approval.
        The battle pitted the Nixon Administration and conservative Republicans who favored Judge Haynsworth against the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, an alliance of 125 religious, labor, welfare and civil rights groups.
        In the end, the nomination was rejected 55 to 45, with 17 Republican senators voting no. It was the 10th time in the nation's history that a Supreme Court nominee had been rejected.
        Months later the Senate rejected a second Nixon nominee, G. Harrold Carswell, also a staunch Southern conservative. President Nixon followed with the nomination of Judge Harry A. Blackmun, of Minnesota, who was unanimously approved by the Senate.
        Clement Furman Haynsworth Jr. was born Oct. 30, 1912, in Greenville, S.C. He was a fifth-generation lawyer of the Piedmont South, and his quiet, courtly manner marked him as a member of South Carolina gentry.
        In 1946 he married Dorothy Merry, of Augusta, Ga., who had two sons from a previous marriage. Joins Family Law Firm
        He was graduated summa cum laude in 1933 from Furman College, which his great-great-grandfather had founded. He received a professional degree from Harvard University's School of Law in 1936 and joined the family law firm, serving as the senior partner from 1946 to 1957.
        President Eisenhower appointed Mr. Haynsworth to the Federal bench in 1957 when the judge was 45 years old. Seven years later he was made Chief Judge of the Fourth Circuit appeals court, which serves Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland and the Carolinas. At 52, he was the youngest of the 11 chief judges in the circuits around the country.
        He had all the manner and bearing befitting the title of chief judge. His hair was properly gray, combed straight back, with a slant to the right. He wore steel-rimmed glasses and his conservative attire and military posture completed the image.
        Judge Haynsworth raised prize-winning camellias in the greenhouse behind his home. He also had a fondness for pranks, and he once christened a neighbor's new lawn mower with a beribboned bottle of Fresca and dedicated it ''to the pursuit of better homes and gardens.''
        Up to the time of his nomination to the Supreme Court, Judge Haynsworth had participated in more than 1,000 court decisions, writing more than 300 opinions, which were considered scholarly, well written and well thought out.
        The opposition from labor and civil rights groups stemmed from a number of cases in which he was perceived as being anti-labor and an opponent of civil rights. Joseph L. Rauh, counsel to the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, described the nominee as ''a sort of laundered segregationist.'' Anger Over Ruling
        The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations took issue with a Haynsworth decision overturning a ruling by the National Labor Relations Board. The board had held that closing the Darlington Manufacturing Company, a South Carolina textile mill, was an unfair labor practice because it came just after the Textile Workers Union of America won the right to represent the workers in bargaining.
        Judge Haynsworth and two other judges ruled that the labor board lacked the authority to compel the company either to stay in business or to pay the wages of the dismissed employees until they could find similar employment. The board's decision was eventually upheldby the full United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, with Judge Haynsworth presiding.
        At Judge Haynsworth's nomination hearings the unions disclosed that at the time of the court's initial ruling on the labor board's decision the judge held stock in a vending company that did substantial business with subsidiaries of Deering Milliken mills, Darlington's parent company. The unions argued that Judge Haynsworth, who had since sold the stock for about $455,000, should have disqualified himself. Criticism of Rulings
        Civil rights groups, meanwhile, contended that rulings by Judge Haynsworth in desegregation showed that he was not fit to serve on the Supreme Court.
        They cited his affirmation of a decision by local officials to close the public schools in Prince Edward County, Va., rather than to integrate them. They also assailed him for upholding the constitutionality of tuition grants to white students who wished to enroll in non-integrated schools.
        Judge Haynsworth asserted that the civil rights groups were ''condemning opinions written when none of us was writing as we are now.''
        When asked if he had changed, he responded, ''Haven't we all?''
        Even as the Senate was preparing to vote on his nomination, the Supreme Court unanimously ordered an immediate end to segregation and dual school systems based on race, citing as precedents two decisions that reversed opinions written by Judge Haynsworth. The Supreme Court's 1954 decision declaring segregation unconstitutional did not set a timetable for desegregation.
        Lawyers who testified at the hearings asserted that Judge Haynsworth was highly qualified for the Supreme Court.
        Lawrence E. Walsh, chairman of the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary, noted that about 10 percent of the nominee's opinions invited controversy. Mr. Walsh, who is currently the special prosecutor in the Iran-contra affair, said that Judge Haynsworth's opinions in those cases, rather than reflecting bias, were ''a reflection of a man who has a concept of deliberateness in the judicial process.''
        In addition to his wife, Dorothy, Judge Haynsworth is survived by a stepson, Rufus C. Barkley Jr., of Charleston, S.C.
      