
       Dr. Nathan W. Shock, a noted gerontologist who was a former director of the Government's pioneering Gerontology Research Center, died of cancer Sunday at the Francis Scott Key Medical Center in Baltimore. He was 82 years old and lived in Towson, Md.
        Dr. Nathan W. Shock, a noted gerontologist who was a former director of the Government's pioneering Gerontology Research Center, died of cancer Sunday at the Francis Scott Key Medical Center in Baltimore. He was 82 years old and lived in Towson, Md.
        Dr. Shock combined science, common sense and humor to educate others on aging. He was an effective advocate for spending and research in his field, and among the areas he explored was the physiology of aging in the heart, kidneys, lungs, nerves and brain. He and his collegues clocked the rates that parts of the body age and documented that individuals age at vastly different rates.
        Since 1976 he had held the title of scientist emeritus of the National Institute of Aging's Gerontology Research Center in Baltimore. He remained active in scientific research until his death. Early Work on Aging
        Dr. Shock, a native of Lafayette, Ind., received bachelor's and master's degrees at Purdue University and a doctorate in psychology at the University of Chicago. He moved to Baltimore in 1941 from Berkeley, Calif., to join the first research program on aging in the National Institutes of Health. From 1941 to 1964 he directed a unit of the physiology division. He next worked with the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development as director of the Gerontology Research Center, and spent a year as scientific director of the National Institute on Aging before retiring in 1976.
        From 1959 to 1970 he served on atomic bomb casualty advisory board of the National Academy of Sciences. He was president of the Gerontological Society of America from 1960 to 1961 and was editor in chief of The Journal of Gerontology. From 1969 to 1972 he was president of the International Association of Gerontology.
        In June the Institute on Aging renamed its intramural Gerontology Research Center in his honor.
        Dr. Shock, a widower, is survived by two sons, Joseph B. of Timonium, Md., and John H. of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Beatrice Hargett of Hesperia, Calif.; seven grandchildren and two-great-grandchildren.
      