
       Arnold Herstand, a painter, art dealer and former president of the Minneapolis College of Art and Design and the San Francisco Art Institute, died of brain cancer on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Arnold Herstand, a painter, art dealer and former president of the Minneapolis College of Art and Design and the San Francisco Art Institute, died of brain cancer on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In recent years, Mr. Herstand was best known as a dealer. The Arnold Herstand Gallery, which he opened in 1983 at 24 West 57th Street, mounted shows of work by modern Europeans and Americans, ranging from Andre Masson, Max Ernst and Joan Miro to the present-day artists Arakawa, Jenny Lee and Gonzalo Fonseca. Mr. Herstand's interests also encompassed tribal art, of which the gallery held biennial shows.
        Born in New York City on Sept. 10, 1925, Mr. Herstand graduated from Yale University and earned a master's degree at Columbia. He studied painting at Pratt Institute and the Art Students League. After military service with the United States Army in World War II, he studied in Paris for two years with the painter Fernand Leger.
        Returning to the United States, Mr. Herstand entered the field of education, serving as a teacher and administrator for almost 25 years. He held teaching posts at the City College of New York, Colgate University and Cornell University. From 1969 to 1974 he was president of the Minneapolis College of Art and Design, where he developed overseas programs for students and an extensive visiting artist program, as well as overseeing the construction of a new college building designed by the Japanese architect Kenzo Tange. His tenure as president of the San Francisco Art Institute, from 1974 to 1976, was marked by controversy when students and faculty members objected to his reduction of their role in management decisions.
        Returning to New York in 1976, Mr. Herstand established an office in New York for the French-based Galerie Maeght. Seven years later, he opened the Arnold Herstand Gallery.
        Surviving are his wife, Nancy; his parents, Rose and Max Herstand, all of New York City; two sons, Marc, of San Diego, and Robin, of New York City; a brother, Theodore, of Norman, Okla., and two grandsons.
      