
       May Swenson, a poet known for her cerebral, playful verse, and a recipient two years ago of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, died yesterday in Ocean View, Del. She was 76 years old and had been suffering from chronic asthma.
        May Swenson, a poet known for her cerebral, playful verse, and a recipient two years ago of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, died yesterday in Ocean View, Del. She was 76 years old and had been suffering from chronic asthma.
        Miss Swenson, who came to New York half a century ago from her birthplace, Logan, Utah, published her first collection of poems, ''Another Animal,'' in 1954. That book led the critic John Ciardi to declare: ''May Swenson is not a promise, but a fact. She has daring, a true feeling for the structure of the whole poem, precision of phrase, and a magic eye for the exact image.''
        In all, Miss Swenson published nine volumes of poems, many of which first appeared in The New Yorker. Unlike many of her counterparts, she did not treat poetry as a tragic expression, a mode of despair. She was associated instead with a more joyful, clever, often lighthearted sensibility. In her poem ''Analysis of Baseball,'' she wrote:  It's done  on a diamond,  and for fun.  It's about  home, and it's  about run.
        She transformed her daily experiences - a walk in fresh snow, a view of the surface of water, the observation of a bee sipping nectar from a yellow rose - into objects of art. She was able, as one critic wrote, to make her readers see what they had only glanced at before. 'A Dazzling Technician''
        In 1979, when her collection ''New and Selected Things Taking Place'' was published, a reviewer in The New York Times spoke of Miss Swenson's ''refreshing delight in the metaphysically absurd.'' The poet and critic Anne Stevenson called Miss Swenson ''a dazzling technician and manifestly an intelligent and sympathetic woman.''
        The idea of the 1979 volume was not so much to write poems but, in the words of the title, to describe ''things taking place.'' Miss Swenson concerned herself with the observations her eyes made, as in this line from a poem entitled ''Colors Without Objects'':  I wait for a few  iridium specks of idea to thrive  in the culture of my eye.
        Reflecting poetically on the relationship between observation and intellect, vision and thought, Miss Swenson in 1963 closed a poem entitled ''Cabal'' this way:  Eye light and mind light,  lightning-taming leather  I will turn, and be  a swiftness on the dark.
        Miss Swenson, who lived for the last two decades of her life with her companion, R. R. Knudson, in Sea Cliff, L.I., graduated from Utah State Agricultural College. She worked for a year on a Salt Lake City newspaper before coming to New York in the late 1930's. She worked for several years as a stenographer and then as an editor for New Directions, writing poems all the time.
        With recognition came awards, including Rockefeller, Guggenheim, and Ford Foundation grants, the Brandeis University Creative Arts Award and, in 1981, the Bollingen Prize in Poetry from Yale University. Two years ago, she received a $130,000 Fellowship from the MacArthur Foundation.
        Miss Swenson is survived by eight brothers and sisters, all of Utah.
      