
       Melvin Emerson Dawley, who spent 36 years with Lord & Taylor, the last 13 of them as the retail chain's chief executive officer, died Thursday at his home in Mountain Lake, a residential community in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 84 years old and, until a few months ago, also had a home in Bronxville, N
        Melvin Emerson Dawley, who spent 36 years with Lord & Taylor, the last 13 of them as the retail chain's chief executive officer, died Thursday at his home in Mountain Lake, a residential community in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 84 years old and, until a few months ago, also had a home in Bronxville, N.Y., where he was a longtime resident.
        Mr. Dawley retired from Lord & Taylor as chairman and chief executive officer in 1972, but stayed on for another year as honorary chairman. He served as president and chief executive from 1959 to 1968, when he took on the chairmanship.
        He guided the New York-based fashion retailer into a period of expansion and peak sales, adding new stores as far away as Dallas and Houston. Lord & Taylor, then the largest store division of the Associated Drygoods Corporation of New York, has since been acquired by the May Department Stores Company, based in St. Louis.
        Mr. Dawley was also active in civic affairs. He served as president and chairman of the Fifth Avenue Association in the late 1960's, as a director of the Better Business Bureau and as a trustee of the Citizens' Budget Committee. He was an honorary life fellow of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Fund Raising for Culture
        At Lord & Taylor, he initiated an annual dinner dance-fashion show to raise money for civic and cultural endeavors. Called ''Forecast of Fashion,'' it was first held in 1960 to benefit the Museum of Modern Art. In subsequent years, the event contributed to the ''Save Carnegie Hall'' drive, the Municipal Art Society and the repair of the Bethesda Fountain in Central Park.
        In addition, he helped organize fund-raising events for the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum and the annual ball for the Fashion Institute of Technology. His other associations included the Educational Foundation for the Apparel Industry, the Merchants Council New York University's School of Retailing and the Girl Scouts of America.
        Mr. Dawley was born in Grand Rapids, Mich., and graduated from Northwestern University in 1927. He began his retailing career in his hometown as a manager for Mark Stores. In 1933, he became an assistant to the vice president for sales at Montgomery Ward & Company in Chicago.
        He was display manager there in 1936 when Lord & Taylor beckoned him to New York to become merchandise manager of its children's departments. By 1947, he was a vice president and moved into a company directorship a year later.
        Mr. Dawley is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Dorothy Tisch; a daughter, Donna Soldwedel of Pasadena, Calif.; a son, David, of Mountain Lakes, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      