
       Kurt Baum, a tenor who regularly performed at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's, died of unspecified causes on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in New York City.
        Kurt Baum, a tenor who regularly performed at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's, died of unspecified causes on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in New York City.
        Mr. Baum was born in Prague, attended high school and college in Cologne, Germany, where his father did business, and studied medicine at the University of Prague. Robust and an avid sportsman, he was once the amateur heavyweight boxing champion of Czechoslovakia.
        A career in music was reportedly urged upon Mr. Baum by a friend who heard him sing a German drinking song at a party. He left medical school and in 1930 entered the Music Academy of Berlin, at which he studied for less than a year.
        He made his operatic debut in Zemlinsky's ''Kreidekreis'' in November 1933 in Zurich. In 1939 he was offered a three-year contract with the Chicago Grand Opera. He made his debut in Chicago in November 1939 as Radames in ''Aida.'' 'I Was So Happy'
        Mr. Baum first performed at the Metropolitan Opera in November 1941 as the Italian singer in ''Der Rosenkavalier.'' ''I was so happy,'' he told a reporter at the time. ''It was always my goal.'' In January 1943, he assumed his first major role at the Met in ''La Forza del Destino'' as Don Alvaro, said to have been his favorite character.
        He remained on the company roster through the 1965-66 season, appearing for the last time in the gala evening that marked the closing of the old house in April 1966.
        Though Mr. Baum relished the Viennese repertory, he specialized in Italian opera. In 1953, he appeared in ''Aida'' in London at the behest of Queen Elizabeth II shortly after her coronation. Critics occasionally faulted his intonation, but he was celebrated in his prime for the strength of his high notes.
        Mr. Baum became an American citizen and remained in New York in his later years. He was an honored guest at the Met centenary celebrations in 1983.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      