
       William John Bailey, chemist, educator and former chairman of the board of the American Chemical Society, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at the Straub Hospital in Honolulu, where he was attending a professional meeting on polymers. He was 68 years old and lived in University Park, Md.
        William John Bailey, chemist, educator and former chairman of the board of the American Chemical Society, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at the Straub Hospital in Honolulu, where he was attending a professional meeting on polymers. He was 68 years old and lived in University Park, Md.
        Dr. Bailey was research professor of the department of chemistry at the University of Maryland at College Park. He joined the faculty there as a research professor in 1951.
        Dr. Bailey was a specialist in the chemistry of polymers - giant molecules formed from molecules of the same substance and often having a definite arrangement of the components of the giant molecules. He discovered that the addition of a particular organic compound created a biodegradable plastic that could be broken down by microorganisms in the presence of water.
        Biodegradable plastic is potentially useful in manufacturing fishing lines and gear. Environmentalists estimate that more than a million sea birds and 100,000 sea mammals die annually by becoming entangled in or ingesting bits of the 298 million pounds of plastic fishing gear that commercial fleets lose each year. Synethesized Expanding Polymer
        Through his research, Dr. Bailey also synthesized the first expanding polymer, a development that could significantly improve their use as adhesives, among other specialized applications.
        He was born in East Grand Ford, Minn., and graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1943 and received a doctorate from the University of Illinois in 1946. From 1946 to 1947, he was a postdoctoral Fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and from 1947 to 1951 he taught chemistry at Wayne State University in Detroit.
        Dr. Bailey was president of the American Chemical Society in 1975, chairman of its board in 1979 and 1981 and chairman of its division of polymer chemistry in 1968.
        He was the winner of many awards, including the Hillebrand Prize of the Chemical Society of Washington in 1984. He also won the Gulf Oil Foundation unrestricted research award in 1971, the National American Chemical Society award in polymer chemistry in 1977 and the American Chemical Society award in applied polymer chemistry in 1986.
        He was the author of several technical books on polymers and nearly 200 scientific publications.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Caroline Worsham; two sons, John Robert of Lincoln, Neb.; two daughters, Caroline Jane of Aurora, Ill., and Barbara Ann of Raleigh, N.C..; a brother, Robert Vern of Walker, Minn.
      