
       Serge A. Korff, a physicist who led worldwide observations of cosmic rays in the 1940's and 1950's, using balloons, aircraft and mountaintop observatories, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 83 years old.
        Serge A. Korff, a physicist who led worldwide observations of cosmic rays in the 1940's and 1950's, using balloons, aircraft and mountaintop observatories, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 83 years old.
        He had served as professor of physics at New York University and was president of the Explorers Club and the American Geographical Society.
        In 1960 Dr. Willard Libby, in accepting the Nobel Prize for his discovery that the decay of radioactive carbon could be used to date archeological specimens, reminded his audience of the contribution of Dr. Korff's contribution.
        It was Dr. Korff and his colleagues who discovered that the atmosphere is constantly being bombarded by neutrons. He pointed out that the principal way the neutrons would disappear would be by forming radioactive carbon, Dr. Libby said. This, the Nobel winner said, put him on the path to his discovery.
        Serge Alexander Korff was born in 1906 in Helsinki, Finland. His father, a baron, belonged to a prominent Russian family and was professor of Russian law at the University of Helsinki before emigrating to the United States. Early Years in Physics
        Mr. Korff graduated from Princeton University in 1929, obtaining his doctorate there in 1931. The next year he became a research associate at the Mount Wilson Observatory in California and through the rest of the 1930's he was associated with the California Institute of Technology, the Carnegie Institution of Washington and the Bartol Research Foundation.
        In that period Dr. Korff, a tall, courtly man, began what became the focus of his scientific career: observing and mapping the rain of neutrons -electrically neutral atomic particles -produced by high energy radiation, or cosmic rays, striking the top of the atmosphere all over the earth. Balloon observations were made above Guam, the Galapagos Islands, Greenland, the Caribbean and several points within the United States.
        In 1947 one of the balloon assemblages flew over New Jersey, Queens and Connecticut, leading to a flurry of reports of flying saucers.
        To obtain readings from as close as possible to the top of the atmosphere, observations were made from an elevation of 17,100 feet in Chacaltaya, Bolivia; from the top of Mount Wrangell in Alaska, from rockets and from high-flying aircraft. Among the flights was one circling the earth over both poles. Dr. Korff's photographs of a solar eclipse, made from a summit in Peru in 1937, were widely published.
        In 1940 he joined the faculty of New York University and became a professor of physics in 1946. He was president of the Explorers Club in New York from 1955 to 1958 and president of the American Geographical Society from 1967 to 1971, as well as chairman of its council from 1972 to 1988. In 1972 he became president of the New York Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marcella Heron, and two daughters, Alexandra Scott of Washington and Alice Boardman of Boston.
      