
       Former New York State Assembly Speaker Stanley Steingut, the Brooklyn Democrat who was a longtime power in state politics, died early yesterday at the Tisch-University Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Former New York State Assembly Speaker Stanley Steingut, the Brooklyn Democrat who was a longtime power in state politics, died early yesterday at the Tisch-University Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Steingut's elder son, Robert, said he had been suffering from lung cancer and died of pneumonia after being admitted to the hospital on Monday.
        Stanley Steingut was Speaker of the Assembly from 1975 through 1978 and minority leader from 1969 through 1974. At his death he was the senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Berger & Steingut.
        ''The death of Stanley Steingut saddens us all,'' Mayor Edward I. Koch said yesterday, adding, that he ''was a strong legislative leader and served the people of the state well.'' Succeeded His Father
        He served in the State Assembly from 1952 through 1978, when he unexpectedly lost his Assembly seat. He was succeeded as Speaker by Stanley Fink, another Brooklyn Democrat.
        Mr. Steingut served as Brooklyn Democratic chairman from 1962 to 1969 and was also a Democratic district leader. His father, Irwin, was a Democratic Assemblyman from Brooklyn from 1922 until 1952, when his son succeeded him in the district in the Crown Heights section. The elder Mr. Steingut was minority leader from 1928 to 1952 and Speaker in 1935.
        Stanley Steingut's defeat in 1978 was ascribed by many political observers to inadequate attention to his home district. It was said that he had become too caught up in Albany and state affairs. He was defeated in the 1978 Democratic primary by Murray Weinstein, a political unknown, who went on to beat him narrowly in the general election - in which Mr. Steingut ran on the Liberal Party line. 'Special Interests' Asserted
        ''Twenty-six years of public service is a long career,'' Mr. Steingut said, conceding defeat at the time. ''I pray I have used these years well.''
        The campaign against Mr. Steingut had concentrated on his opposition to the death penalty and also on a contentions that he was a ''champion of the special interests,'' which he said was ''a smear.''
        During his Assembly career, he was a member of the joint legislative committee on physical handicaps and on mental retardation, an area where he was particularly active. He was also chairman of the Joint Committee on Child Care Needs.
        In the 1950's, as a member of the Assembly, Mr. Steingut and a Republican colleague, Earl Brydges, sponsored legislation that provided for a variety of special services for children and adults in New York State.
        As minority leader, he worked hard, often getting up at 5:30 A.M. He sometimes woke up local Democratic leaders with phone calls before 6 A.M. simply to ask what was happening in their areas. He was a lackluster public speaker but got along well with many other political figures. He was also shrewd, street-smart, deeply versed in Democratic politics and wary of reporters. Early Political Experience
        On his last day in the Assembly, on Dec. 7, 1978, Mr. Steingut lifted his big speaker's gavel, said ''Here it goes'' -and pounded it, bringing his elective political career to a close. He blew kisses to the members of the Assembly.
        Mr. Steingut was born May 20, 1920, in the Crown Heights section. He attended the Peddie School and Union College.
        He gained political experience early in life, learning to ring doorbells beside his father. He served in the Navy during World War II, went on to graduate from St. John's University Law School and was admitted to the New York bar in 1950.
        After losing his Assembly seat, Mr. Steingut, who had earlier been a partner in an insurance business, served more than a year as chairman of the New York State Sports Authority. He also went back to the law, initially as counsel to the firm of Baskin & Sears and later as partner in Berger & Steingut.
        Mr. Steingut was a member of the finance committee of Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins's campaign organization this year.
        Mr. Steingut was a founder and a trustee of Touro College. He was awarded honorary degrees from Union College and Polytechnic University and was the recipient of many awards.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Madeline Fellerman; two sons, Robert - an investment banker who is a former chairman of the state Workers' Compensation Board and a former City Council member at large from Brooklyn - of Manhattan, and Theodore, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Ilene Steingut Vallifuoco of Rome, and four grandchildren.
        A funeral is to be held Sunday at 11 A.M. at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, on the corner of Amsterdam Avenue.
        Correction:  December 12, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Saturday about Stanley Steingut, the former New York State Assembly Speaker, referred incorrectly to service by his father, Irwin Steingut, as Assembly minority leader. It began in 1930, not 1928.
      