
       Ahmadou Ahidjo, who served as President of the West African nation of Cameroon for 22 years after it won independence from France in 1960, then fled into exile in 1983, died on Thursday in Dakar, Senegal, according to a French radio report quoted by the Reuters news agency.
        Ahmadou Ahidjo, who served as President of the West African nation of Cameroon for 22 years after it won independence from France in 1960, then fled into exile in 1983, died on Thursday in Dakar, Senegal, according to a French radio report quoted by the Reuters news agency.
        Reuters said the France-Infos network reported that Mr. Ahidjo, who was 65 years old, had died after a heart attack. He maintained homes in Dakar, the Senegalese capital, and in the south of France and lived largely out of public view.
        Mr. Ahidjo was one the founders of independent Africa, a member of a generation of leaders who guided the destinies of the nations newly freed from the colonial rule of France, Britain, Portugal, Belgium and others in the 1960's and '70s.
        During his more than two decades in office, Mr. Ahidjo devoted much of his energy to building the economy of his country, which is situated on the Atlantic. He also tried to bring peace between rival factions in Cameroon's north and south. Voluntary Transfer of Power
        In November 1982, he resigned the presidency and handed over power to his Prime Minister and longtime associate, Paul Biya, but remained as head of the country's single political party.
        Soon, a power struggle broke out, and Mr. Ahidjo was accused of plotting against the Government. He went into exile in August 1983. In early 1984 he was sentenced to death in absentia by a Cameroon court. The sentence was later commuted to an indefinite term of detention. Mr. Ahidjo never returned to his native country.
        The President was born in Garoua, in northern Cameroon, to a chief of the Fulani tribe. His mother was a slave. He obtained a high school education and became a radio operator. Rose Through the System
        Entering politics in his late teens in what was then French-ruled territory, he was elected in 1947 to Cameroon's first Assembly, a purely consultative body. He won re-election in 1952, became Deputy Prime Minister in 1957 and Prime Minister a year later, at the age of 43, in a largely autonomous government under the French flag. He assumed the presidency in 1960 when Cameroon became independent along with several other French African territories.
        Mr. Ahidjo consistently said he wanted to end his country's racial and religious divisions. But after he stepped down, other officials led by Mr. Biya accused him of having run the country with a clique of northern Muslims.
        When a rebellion broke out in 1984, nine months after he went into exile, Mr. Ahidjo disclaimed any connection with the dissidents.
        No information was immdiately available on the identity of surviving members of his family.
      