
       Morton Frank, a retired publisher, died of complications Thursday following heart surgery at Bridgeport (Conn.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and a resident of Manhattan and Easton, Conn.
        Morton Frank, a retired publisher, died of complications Thursday following heart surgery at Bridgeport (Conn.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and a resident of Manhattan and Easton, Conn.
        Much of his long career was devoted to developing Family Weekly, a national Sunday newspaper supplement. For 16 years, Mr. Frank ran Family Weekly, serving at different times as publisher, president, chief executive and chairman.
        At his death, he was chairman emeritus of the weekly, now USA Weekend. He joined Family Weekly in 1958 as vice president for publisher relations, becoming publisher in 1966.
        ''Family Weekly's purpose is not to become a political prognosticator,'' Mr. Frank once said. ''Our readers are interested in things important to a family - health, male-female relationships, money, current events.'' An Honorary Degree
        Born in Pitcairn, Pa., Mr. Frank graduated from the University of Michigan and did post-graduate work at Carnegie Tech, the University of Pittsburgh and Duquesne University Law School. He was a life trustee of Alfred University, which awarded him an honorary degree in 1979.
        He entered journalism in 1933, first as advertising manager of The Daily News Herald in Braddock, Pa., then as editor of The Braddock Free Press. Later he joined The Pittsburgh Press. During World War II, he served as a lieutenant in naval intelligence, a gunnery officer and first executive officer of the Navy's Fleet Home Town News Service. Founded Their Own Weekly
        In 1946, Mr. Frank and his first wife, the former Agnes Dodds, worked together at The Arizona Times in Phoenix and then moved to Canton, Ohio, to publish their own weekly newspapers. There he won the National Enterprise Association's first prize for feature writing in 1954.
        After retirement, he served as chairman, then director of the New York State Council of Governing Boards of Higher Education. He was elected to Sigma Delta Chi's Journalism Hall of Fame in 1985.
        He is survived by his second wife, Elizabeth Pope Frank; two sons, Allan Dodds Frank of Manhattan, Michael Robert Frank of Chicago, and a daughter, Marilyn Morton Frank, of Chicago.
      