
       Stanley Olson, a biographer of the painter John Singer Sargent and the writer Elinor Wylie, died of a stroke on Saturday in his apartment in London, his sister said yesterday. He was 42 years old and had suffered another stroke in 1986.
        Stanley Olson, a biographer of the painter John Singer Sargent and the writer Elinor Wylie, died of a stroke on Saturday in his apartment in London, his sister said yesterday. He was 42 years old and had suffered another stroke in 1986.
        Mr. Olson, who was born in Akron, Ohio, lived in Britain for 20 years and was the editor of Sir Harold Nicolson's ''Diaries and Letters 1930-1964'' (Atheneum), which was published in 1980. His biography of Sargent, the American expatriate painter who died in 1925, was published in 1986 by St. Martin's Press under the title ''John Singer Sargent: His Portrait.''
        The New York Times critic John Russell wrote in that year that Mr. Olson was ''the most staunch of Sargent's admirers.'' Roger Kimball wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''makes a substantial contribution to our appreciation of the painter's work and his world.'' Praise for an Earlier Work
        Mr. Olson's earlier biography, ''Elinor Wylie: A Life Apart'' (Dial Press), was published in 1979. Grace Schulman wrote in The Times Book Review that ''the strength of this book is Stanley Olson's prose.''
        She said Mr. Olson's account of the life of the poet, novelist and editor, who flourished in the 1920's, was enriched by ''tangible descriptions of Greenwich Village and the Upper East Side, of London and of Washington'' and ''terse, sympathetic portraits of literary figures.''
        The British writer Rebecca West, who died in 1983, left a signed request that Mr. Olson write a full-scale biography of her. His sister, Arlene Olson-Muravchik, said yesterday that she thought he had done some research for the book but had not begun writing it.
        Mr. Olson was the son of Sidney Olson and the former Miriam Klein. He was a 1969 graduate of Boston University and held a doctorate in English literature from the University of London.
        He is survived by his parents, of Miami Beach; his sister, of Philadelphia, and a brother, Norman Olson of San Francisco.
      