
       Frederick E. Nolting Jr., who was United States Ambassador to South Vietnam from 1961 to 1963, died on Thursday at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville, Va., a spokesman for the center said.
        Frederick E. Nolting Jr., who was United States Ambassador to South Vietnam from 1961 to 1963, died on Thursday at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville, Va., a spokesman for the center said.
        Mr. Nolting was 78 years old and lived on an estate near Charlottesville in Albemarle County, Virginia.
        The spokesman, Jeffrey N. Ware, said he was admitted to the hospital Nov. 13 suffering from heart problems and died of cardio-pulmonary arrest as a result of an aneurism, or swelling, of his aortic artery.
        President Kennedy named Mr. Nolting, a veteran diplomat, as Ambassador to Saigon during the administration of Ngo Dinh Diem.
        After taking up his duties, Mr. Nolting voiced the view that military efforts against the Vietnamese Communist forces were more important than political reforms. #1962 Speech Criticized In a 1962 speech in Saigon, he said, ''What a marvelous transformation would take place in this country if all those who criticize their government would decide to work with it and for it.''
        The Asia expert Stanley Karnow, in his 1983 book ''Vietnam: A History,'' contended that the statement was ''an astonishing display of naivete'' and that Mr. Nolting had carried out a policy of appeasing Mr. Diem.
        Mr. Nolting's tour as Ambassador ended in August 1963. In a statement when he left Saigon he praised what he called the progress made in South Vietnam in agriculture, education, health and commerce and ''in the inculcation of democratic principles.''
        But critics have contended that Mr. Diem's authoritarianism undercut support for his Government and therefore hampered efforts against the Communist forces. Born in Richmond
        Mr. Nolting was succeeded as Ambassador by Henry Cabot Lodge. Mr. Diem was overthrown and slain in a coup mounted by South Vietnamese generals in 1963.
        Frederick Ernest Nolting Jr. was born on Aug. 24, 1911, in Richmond to Fredrick Ernest Nolting Sr. and Mary Buford Nolting. He grew up in Richmond and earned a B.A. degree in History in 1933 from the University of Virginia, in Charlottesville, where he went on to earn a master's degree and a doctorate in philosophy. He earned a second master's degree in philosophy from Harvard.
        After being a member of a Richmond investment concern and a Navy officer in World War II, Mr. Nolting joined the State Department in 1946 and went on to be special assistant to Secretary of State John Foster Dulles for mutual security affairs.
        Before he became Ambassador in Saigon, his other diplomatic assignments included serving as deputy chief of the United State mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organiztion and to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation. Retired From Service in 1964
        He retired from the Foreign Service in 1964 with the rank of Career Minister, was for some years an executive of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, based in Paris and New York, and went on to hold teaching and administrative posts at the University of Virginia. He retired there in 1982.
        Mr. Nolting was the author of a 1988 book ''From Trust to Tragedy'' and a former board chairman of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Olivia Lindsay Crumpler, whom he married in 1940; four daughters, Molly Nolting Bruner and Jane Nolting Meniktos, both of Charlottesville, Grace Lindsay Nolting of Columbia, Va., and Frances Nolting Temple of Geneva, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held at 11 A.M. on Monday at Saint Paul's Church in Ivy, Va., near Charlottesville.
      