
       Ernest N. Dutch Morial, New Orleans' first black Mayor and a civil rights advocate in the 1950's and 1960's, died here last night after collapsing outside the home of a friend. He was 60 years old.
        Ernest N. Dutch Morial, New Orleans' first black Mayor and a civil rights advocate in the 1950's and 1960's, died here last night after collapsing outside the home of a friend. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Morial was stricken while entering his car. He was taken to Mercy Hospital, where doctors tried unsuccessfully to revive him. ''He was a victim of the cold,'' Frank Minyard, the New Orleans coroner, announced today. ''The cold weather brought on an asthma attack, which brought on a cardiopulmonary collapse. The temperature was about 10 degrees.''
        Mr. Morial, a lawyer, was regarded as one of New Orleans' most accomplished politicians. He served two terms as Mayor, from 1978 to 1986. In his second term he was president of the United States Conference of Mayors. He also was a member of the Democratic National Committee.
        He left office in 1986 after trying in 1985 to amend the City Charter so he could run for a third consecutive term, but voters rebuffed his effort. Nearly Entered Current Race
        Recently he had been pressed by supporters to enter the current mayoral race and for months had been considered a strong candidate, attracting grass-roots backing, as friends and others noted, ''without spending a nickel on television.'' But about two weeks ago, he announced that he had decided not to enter the race. He gave no reason, but there was speculation in the city that his family had not been enthusiastic about a campaign and that he realized the problems facing the next mayor would be enormous.
        During his years as Mayor Mr. Morial was regarded by many as an adroit administrator who kept the city afloat in difficult financial times when Federal aid dried up and the city struggled with a low tax base.
        But he also struggled with image problems, with many whites perceiving him as arrogant and ''divisive.'' In his second campaign he often addressed that problem, responding to critics that he was tough, not arrogant.
        Mr. Morial's election as Mayor was one of many firsts in his life. In 1954 he was the first black graduate of the Louisiana State University School of Law; in 1965, he was the first black lawyer to serve in the United States Attorney's office in Louisiana; in 1967, he was the first black in the state House of Representatives since Reconstruction; in 1970, he was the first black judge in state juvenile court; in 1972, he was the first black to be elected to the state appeals court. Broke Barriers for Others
        He broke many barriers for other blacks as well, filing successfull suits to end segregation practices in New Orleans and the state, including the city's public schools, recreation department, taxicabs, the airport and the Municipal Auditorium.
        ''He was the last of a very important line of civil rights figures in New Orleans,'' said Joseph Logsdon, a University of New Orleans history professor. ''He was part of a civil rights movement that went all the way back to Reconstruction.''
        Dr. Logsdon said Mr. Morial and others in that movement were members of an ''assertive and highly trained leadership class.'' Like others in the movement, Mr. Morial was rooted in the uniquely New Orleans culture of black Creole Roman Catholic, which produced many prominent politicians.
        ''Dutch wouldn't bend his knee to anyone,'' Dr. Logsdon said, ''but he would cooperate with anyone on the basis of full equality.'' This attitude made him unpopular with many whites who, Dr. Logsdon said, ''first called it uppitiness and later arrogance.'' Still, this made Mr. Morial ''a great champion in the black community,'' Dr. Logsdon added.
        ''He was a trailblazer in so many ways,'' said Joe Walker, a leading Louisiana poll taker. ''He was still capable of great political influence.'' Mr. Walker said that among blacks, none of the state's other black officials ''had the loyalty in or out of power that Dutch commanded.''
        Mr. Morial is survived by his wife, Sybil Haydel Morial; two sons, Marc and Jacques of New Orleans; three daughters, Julie of San Francisco, Cheri of Denver and Monique of Atlanta; two brothers, Frank of New Orleans and Richard of Oakland, and two sisters, Alice Gonzales and Mary Avery, both of Los Angeles.
      