
       There were tears and laughter, public praise and personal anecdote as some 4,500 people commemorated Alvin Ailey yesterday in ''The Celebration of Alvin Ailey Jr., Going Home,'' a memorial and funeral service at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. The modern-dance choreographer and founder and director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater died of a blood disorder on Dec.
        There were tears and laughter, public praise and personal anecdote as some 4,500 people commemorated Alvin Ailey yesterday in ''The Celebration of Alvin Ailey Jr., Going Home,'' a memorial and funeral service at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. The modern-dance choreographer and founder and director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater died of a blood disorder on Dec. 1 at the age of 58. He will be buried in Los Angeles.
        ''Alvin really stuck to what he wanted to do,'' said Louise Roberts, a longtime Ailey friend and colleague. ''He stuck to having a company and that was hard. He made a joyous experience available to jillions of people.''
        Guillermo Asca and Jody Foster, two students at the Ailey school, talked of Mr. Ailey's generosity to young dancers and of his interest in their careers.
        ''If you worked with him, he touched you,'' Jim Csollany said as he and 29 other members of the stage crew at the City Center, where the Ailey company is performing through Dec. 31, took their seats before the service. President Bush's Message
        Then Mr. Ailey's family, friends and colleagues, led by his mother, Lula Cooper, and his brother, David Walls Cooper, filed to the front of the cathedral behind the coffin, to the stately, lilting beat of drums played by Max Roach. In a statement read by Stanley Plesent, the former head of the company's board, President Bush eulogized Mr. Ailey as ''a man of gentleness and vision.'' And Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins described the choreographer as a humanist who served as a ''great interpreter and apostle of American culture for the rest of the world.''
        Some of the most moving reminiscences in the two-hour service were from Carmen de Lavallade, Mr. Ailey's first partner, and Judith Jamison, a former star of the Ailey troupe. Miss de Lavallade talked of Mr. Ailey's earliest years in dance and of his dance legacy. ''He gave you an open chest of gems, of jewels,'' she said, addressing the young dancers in the audience. ''And all you have to do is dip in your hand and take. Take it and use it and pass it on.'' Miss Jamison said: ''He gave me legs until I could stand on my own as a dancer and a choreographer. He made us believe we could fly.'' Joy in Touring Recalled
        The writer Maya Angelou read a poem for Mr. Ailey, and Paul Szilard, his manager, recalled Mr. Ailey's delight in the company's many international tours. The Rev. Dr. Robert Polk, who officiated at the ceremoney with the Very Rev. James Parks Morton, dean of the cathedral, and Canon Joel A. Gibson, talked of hearing Mr. Ailey plan a European tour when the company ''couldn't afford to get to J.F.K.''
        There was music from Ashford and Simpson. Dudley Williams danced Mr. Ailey's ''Song for You.'' An excerpt from his ''Cry'' was performed by Donna Wood, and excerpts from ''Revelations,'' a modern-dance classic by Mr. Ailey, were danced by Mari Kajiwara, John Parks and the company.
        As the dancers moved to the beat of the spiritual ''Rocka My Soul,'' to which the finale of ''Revelations'' is performed, Mr. Ailey's mother and brother and several others began to clap along. And soon the vast church was filled with the sound of rhythmic clapping.
      