
       Dr. John Slawson, executive vice president emeritus of the American Jewish Committee, died of heart failure Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93 years old.  Dr. Slawson retired in 1967 after 24 years as leader of the organization, which was founded in 1906 to combat bigotry and to protect the civil and religious rights of Jews here and abroad.
        Dr. John Slawson, executive vice president emeritus of the American Jewish Committee, died of heart failure Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93 years old.  Dr. Slawson retired in 1967 after 24 years as leader of the organization, which was founded in 1906 to combat bigotry and to protect the civil and religious rights of Jews here and abroad. Earlier he had been executive director of the Jewish Board of Guardians of New York, executive director of the Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit and assistant director of the Jewish Welfare Federation of Cleveland.
        He was founder of the American Jewish Committee's Institute of Human Relations and was part of a delegation that met in 1957 with Pope Pius XII, the first audience ever accorded a Jewish organization by the Vatican. Consultant to Conference
        He had taught community relations and social welfare at City College in New York, the University of Michigan and the New School for Social Research.
        Dr. Slawson had been a consultant to the White House Conference on Children and Youth; a consultant on delinquency to the United States Children's Bureau and the Social Security Board, and a president of the National Conference of Jewish Communal Servces.
        He received his bachelor's, master's and doctorate degrees from Columbia University. He wrote a number of studies including a five-volume series titled ''Studies in Prejudice,'' which became a standard reference work.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ada Schupper; three daughters, June Kopilow of Long Beach, L.I., Ruth Kaufman of Los Angeles and Judith Slawson of Manhattan; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      