
       John Payne, an all-around actor who starred in nearly 50 films, mostly in the 1940's and 50's, died of a heart ailment Wednesday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 77 years old.
        John Payne, an all-around actor who starred in nearly 50 films, mostly in the 1940's and 50's, died of a heart ailment Wednesday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 77 years old.
        The actor's early movies included many musicals with Alice Faye or Betty Grable in which he sang with a spirited baritone voice, but as he grew older he shifted to westerns and other action pictures.
        His greatest success was a 1947 comedy-fantasy, ''Miracle on 34th Street,'' in which he played an idealistic lawyer who helped the Macy's department store Santa Claus (Edmund Gwenn) prove in a trial that he was the genuine Kris Kringle.
        Robert Palmer, a longtime friend of the actor, said Mr. Payne persuaded 20th Century-Fox executives to produce the whimsical fable by Valentine Davies. The film, co-starring Maureen O'Hara and Natalie Wood, has become a Christmas classic and is frequently shown on television during the holidays. It will be broadcast on Channel 5 at 5 P.M. Sunday. Color has been added to the black-and-white film. Juilliard and Columbia
        John Payne was born in Roanoke, Va., on May 23, 1912, the son of George Washington Payne, a gentleman farmer with colonial roots, and the former Ida Hope Schaeffer, an amateur singer. He graduated from Roanoke College, then studied singing at the Juilliard School of Music and acting at Columbia University while earning money appearing in low-budget musicals and as a professional wrestler.
        He became an understudy in a 1935 Bea Lillie revue, ''At Home Abroad,'' appeared in it several times, was spotted by a Hollywood scout and got a short-term film contract for a supporting role in the 1936 film ''Dodsworth.''
        He gained notice as a singing boxer in ''Kid Nightingale'' (1939) and in a string of 20th Century-Fox films. The 1940's movies included ''Tin Pan Alley,'' ''The Great American Broadcast,'' ''Sun Valley Serenade,'' ''Hello, Frisco, Hello'' and ''The Dolly Sisters.'' In World War II he was a pilot in the Army Air Corps. He Invested in Real Estate
        In the 1950's, a major portrayal was a war veteran enmeshed in political corruption in ''The Boss.'' In the 50's he also made many adventure films, appeared in his own television show called ''The Restless Gun'' (1957-59) and starred in television plays. In 1973, he returned to the stage, co-starring with Miss Faye in a national tour of a 1920's musical, ''Good News.''
        Mr. Payne, a personable, unassuming man, was a shrewd investor in real estate and owned many parcels in Southern California and a ranch near Billings, Mont. Recalling his career in 1982, he remarked, ''Acting is very hard work and I was never addicted to it.''
        Surviving are his wife, the former Sandy Crowell Curtis, and three children from previous marriages, Julie Anne Payne, of Beverly Hills; Kathleen Stephenson, of Los Angeles, and Thomas, of San Francisco; a brother, Ralph, of Virginia City, Va., and two granddaughters.
      