
       Dr. Chandler McCuskey Brooks, an educator and a physiologist who researched the functions of the brain and heart, died on Wednesday when an automobile struck him outside his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. Chandler McCuskey Brooks, an educator and a physiologist who researched the functions of the brain and heart, died on Wednesday when an automobile struck him outside his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. Brooks was known for his research on the relationships between the central nervous and endocrine systems, as well as the electrophysiology of the heart. He also studied the pituitary, hypothalamus and nervous mechanisms that control sexual behavior. He was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1975.
        He was born in Waverly, W. Va., on Dec. 18, 1905. Dr. Brooks received a bachelor's degree from Oberlin College and his postgraduate education at Princeton, where he earned a Ph.D. in biology and physiology in 1931. He taught briefly at Harvard University and joined the Johns Hopkins University faculty in 1933. In 1948, he became a professor and chairman of the physiology and pharmacology departments of the Long Island College of Medicine.
        The school merged with the State University in 1950 to form the Downstate Medical Center, now the Health Science Center at Brooklyn, and Dr. Brooks remained chairman of the physiology department until 1972. From 1956 to 1966, he also headed graduate education and was dean of the graduate school from 1977 to 1972.
        From 1970 to 1971, Dr. Brooks was acting president of the Health Science Center and remained as a distinguished professor. He continued his research and teaching and, in 1979, was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun by the Emperor of Japan.
        He was a Fellow of the Center of Theological Inquiry and chairman of the grants committee of the International Foundation, which gives grants for projects in developing countries.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Gertrude Lange.
      