
       Dr. William C. Greenough, an economist and lecturer whose work transformed pension-fund management, died on Wednesday night at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center after suffering complications from a heart attack. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. William C. Greenough, an economist and lecturer whose work transformed pension-fund management, died on Wednesday night at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center after suffering complications from a heart attack. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Greenough was the retired chief of the nation's largest pension fund, the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund. The $82 billion fund, which Dr. Greenough headed from 1957 to 1979, is serves employees of 4,300 universities, colleges, independent schools and related nonprofit educational organizations. More than one million people participate in its programs.
        In the early 50's, Dr. Greenough, as a vice president at the fund, developed the innovation of a variable-annuity stock fund, to help insure the long-term stability of the pension-fund pool. Tightly Held Stock Portfolios
        The idea, which grew out of his study of the equities market, was based on the principle that a diverse portfolio of common stock, held tightly through booms and busts, would outperform traditional fixed-dollar pension funds and provide additional revenues to offset inflation. A result was the establishment, in 1952, of the College Retirement Equities Fund, which has become the world's largest single-managed equity fund, with assets of $38 billion.
        Paul Samuelson, the Nobel Laureate in economics and a former trustee of the fund, yesterday called the variable-annuity concept a landmark in pensions, adding, ''Few people get a chance to play such a pivotal role in such an important field.''
        William Croan Greenough was born on July 27, 1914, in Indianapolis. He began his formal studies in economics at Indiana University in Bloomington, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1935 and was later an instructor and assistant dean in the business school. He also had a lifelong interest in the sciences and journalism.
        In 1938, he earned a master's in economics at Harvard, and he received a Ph.D. in 1949. His thesis, ''College Retirement and Insurance Plans,'' became a textbook for the industry.
        In World War II, he was an air-combat intelligence officer in the Navy and was awarded a Bronze Star.
        Dr. Greenough was a member of President Jimmy Carter's Commission on Pension Policy and chairman of the Committee for Economic Development subcommittee on reforming retirement policies. He was also a member of the Rockefeller University Council and the Academy for Educational Development.
        From 1972 to 1982, Dr. Greenough was one of the first public directors of the New York Stock Exchange. He had also been a trustee of many organizations, including Radcliffe College, the Carnegie Institution of Washington, the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies and the Devereux Foundation, which elected him chairman last month. Dr. Greenough became president of the teachers' fund in 1957 and was later chairman and chief executive officer, titles he retained until retiring in 1979.
        Dr. Greenough had recently completed his sixth book, a history of the fund to be published in the spring.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Doris Decker; two sons, David, of Downingtown, Pa., and Walter, of Chicago, and a daughter, Martha Alice.
        A service will be held on Jan. 12 at 3 P.M. at the All-Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue in Manhattan.
      