
       Henry Helmuth Reichhold, the founder of Reichhold Chemicals Inc. of White Plains, died Monday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 88 years old.
        Henry Helmuth Reichhold, the founder of Reichhold Chemicals Inc. of White Plains, died Monday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 88 years old.
        Born in Berlin in 1901, Mr. Reichhold was educated at the Universities of Berlin and Vienna. He joined his father's chemical concern, Beck, Koller & Company in Vienna in 1921, and three years later came to the United States, where he worked as a laboratory assistant with the Ford Motor Company in Detroit at $4.80 a day.
        ''I started right away thinking about when I could start my own business,'' he said in a 1981 interview. Started as an Importer
        In 1925 he began to import oil-soluble synthetic resins made by his father's company, and in 1927 he bought a factory in a Detroit suburb and began producing resins and the raw materials for paints. The company, first a Beck, Koller subsidiary, became Reichhold Chemicals in 1938.
        He dominated the company for 54 years and built it into a diversified, publicly owned international chemical concern. It had factories in 23 states and operations in 24 countries, making resins, plastics, adhesives, paints and other products.
        In 1981, the year before he retired, Mr. Reichhold was still putting in an eight-hour day and traveling to Europe four times a year to visit his plants.
        When he retired in 1982, he had the longest tenure as chief executive officer of any Fortune 500 company. He retired from the company's board in 1985.
        Mr. Reichhold was also known as a philanthropist. In 1942 he undertook the revival of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. He also contributed to the building of a cultural center in Berlin. After he bought a resort hotel in St. Thomas, V.I., he became an overseer of the College of the Virgin Islands and helped build the Reichhold Center for the Arts.
        In 1976 the Intra-Research Foundation of Los Angeles gave him its Louis Pasteur Humanitarian Award for his scientific work. The United States Virgin Islands gave him its Medal of Honor for his art center donations.
        Mr. Reichhold is survived by his wife, Sabina, and four daughters, Barbara Keigh of Amsterdam; Katherine, of Tacoma, Wash.; Susan, of Vienna, and Ingrid Wagner of Ipswich, Mass.
      