
       The Rev. Stephen J. Hartdegen, an internationally renowned biblical scholar, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Holy Name Friary in Ringwood, N.J. He was 82 years old. Father Hartdegen, a member of the Franciscan Order, served from 1944 to 1970 as editor in chief of a team of 51 scholars who issued the New American Bible, a translation from ancient Hebrew, Greek and Aramaic scriptures.
        The Rev. Stephen J. Hartdegen, an internationally renowned biblical scholar, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Holy Name Friary in Ringwood, N.J. He was 82 years old. Father Hartdegen, a member of the Franciscan Order, served from 1944 to 1970 as editor in chief of a team of 51 scholars who issued the New American Bible, a translation from ancient Hebrew, Greek and Aramaic scriptures. It replaced the Douay version of the Bible and was declared the official translation for use in Roman Catholic liturgy in the United States. He was also general editor of the Complete Verbal Concordance of the New American Bible, published in 1977.
        More recently, he was executive secretary of the board of editors responsible for a revised translation of the New American Bible. A new translation of the New Testament was published in 1986, and a revision of the Old Testament books is under way.
        Father Hartdegen joined the Franciscans in 1925 and was ordained a priest in 1932. He studied at the Catholic University of America, at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome and at the Franciscan Biblical Institute in Jerusalem. From 1940 to 1968 he taught Scripture at the Franciscan school of theology in Washington and taught Greek at Catholic University.
        Until his retirement this year, he was director of the United States Center for the Catholic Biblical Apostate of the United States Catholic Conference.
        He was the moderator of the Secular Franciscan Fraternities in Bethesda, Md., and Alexandria, Va.
        He is survived by two sisters, both members of the Franciscan Order: Sister Mary Vincentine of Aston, Pa., and Sister Mary Erminelda of Wilmington, Del.
      