
       Ernest Ludwig Sisto, an award-winning photographer who worked for The New York Times for nearly 50 years, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Sierra Nevada Memorial Hospital in Grass Valley, Calif. He was 85 years old and had been living with a son Daniel in Rough and Ready, Calif., for 18 months.
        Ernest Ludwig Sisto, an award-winning photographer who worked for The New York Times for nearly 50 years, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Sierra Nevada Memorial Hospital in Grass Valley, Calif. He was 85 years old and had been living with a son Daniel in Rough and Ready, Calif., for 18 months.
        Mr. Sisto used everything from a 35-millimeter camera to The Times's ''Big Bertha,'' sometimes carrying 100 pounds of equipment to get a picture. A perfectionist, he straddled a cable to shoot a bird's-eye view of the 363-foot Bronx-Whitestone Bridge, hung out over a parapet 86 stories above the street for pictures of the plane that crashed into the Empire State Building in July 1945, and flew over Hudson Bay to bring back exclusive shots of the 1954 solar eclipse.
        He worked at every national political convention of both parties from 1928 to 1948 and at more World Series than he cared to count.
        Most of all, Mr. Sisto loved sports, baseball in particular. Among his many friends in the baseball world were Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle and Phil Rizzuto of the Yankees. When Mr. Rizzuto decided to bunt, he would give his trousers a special hitch as a signal for Mr. Sisto to get his camera in position. His sports pictures, many of them classics, included everything from billiards to water polo. Once, while covering a hockey game, he was hit by a puck; with four sutures in his scalp he returned to the press box to finish the assignment. He retired in June 1972. Never Without Tools
        His awards included best-of-show honors in the newsphoto contest from the New York State Associated Press Association and several from the Press Photographers Association.
        He was born on May 5, 1904, in Princeton, N.J. He started as a ''squeegee boy'' running errands for International News Photos in 1918. In 1920 he was promoted to photographer and three years later joined The Times as a photo printer, earning a reputation as a man who could turn out up to 3,000 prints a night.
        He was never without a set of tools. Between assignments he kept his own photo equipment and that of other photographers in order, repaired watches and eyeglasses for staff associates and reconstructed radios, televisions, compasses and microscopes. gardeners.
        He is also survived by his wife, the former Amelia Rice; a second son, Ernest Sisto Jr., of Lynbrook, L.I.; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      