
       Nathan Irvin Huggins, an author and educator who was a leading scholar in the field of Afro-American studies, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 62 years old.
        Nathan Irvin Huggins, an author and educator who was a leading scholar in the field of Afro-American studies, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 62 years old.
        Dr. Huggins was the W. E. B. Du Bois Professor of History and of Afro-American Studies at Harvard University. He also directed the W. E. B. Du Bois Institute for Afro-American Research at Harvard.
        Known as an outstanding teacher, Dr. Huggins was supportive of undergraduates and graduate students in the various colleges at the university.
        ''He was an extraordinary teacher who cared deeply about his students,'' said Randall Burkett, the associate director of the Du Bois Institute. ''His death is a tremendous loss for the university and for the field of Afro-American studies.'' A Doctorate in 1962
        Dr. Huggins, who received his doctorate from Harvard in 1962, was born in Chicago and was reared in San Francisco. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley.
        He returned to Harvard as a professor in 1980 when the university was trying to bolster the stature of its Afro-American studies department. He taught history at Columbia University for 10 years and also taught at the University of Massachusetts, at Lake Forest College and at the California State College at Long Beach.
        Dr. Huggins was the author of four books and dozens of articles about the black experience in the United States. ''Harlem Renaissance'' was published in 1971, ''Protestants Against Poverty: Boston's Charities'' also in 1971, ''Black Odyssey: The Afro-American's Ordeal in Slavery'' in 1977 and ''Slave and Citizen: The Life of Frederick Douglass'' in 1980.
        He was also the editor of several other books. When he died, he was working on a biography of Ralph J. Bunche, the diplomat who won the Nobel Peace Prize, and on a book about the civil rights movement. In Memory of a Sister
        Among his achievements at Harvard was the establishment in 1981 of the W. E. B. Du Bois Lectureship in Afro-American life, history and culture, which brought black scholars to the university.
        In 1987 he established the Kathryn Huggins Prize at Harvard, an annual award honoring an outstanding undergraduate thesis in Afro-American history and culture. It was created in memory of his sister Kathryn, who died in an automobile accident in 1957.
        He was associated with the Children's Television Workshop. National Public Radio, the Boston Athenaeum, the Museum of Afro-American History, the Howard Thurman Educational Trust and Upward Bound. He was a Guggenheim Fellow and a Ford Foundation travel study fellow.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Brenda Smith, and his adoptive mother, Sue Bailey Thurman of San Francisco.
      