
       Emile de Antonio, a producer and director of anti-establishment documentary films, died after a heart attack Friday in front of his home on the Lower East Side. He was 70 years old.
        Emile de Antonio, a producer and director of anti-establishment documentary films, died after a heart attack Friday in front of his home on the Lower East Side. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. de Antonio, called D by friends, began making films in 1964 when he and Daniel Talbot produced ''Point of Order!,'' a record of the 1954 Army-McCarthy hearings before a Senate subcommittee.
        Nancy de Antonio said her husband had recently finished work on ''Mr. Hoover and I,'' which she described as Mr. de Antonio's life ''seen through the Government since he was 10 years old.'' She said F.B.I. reports on him, which he obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, included the information that when he was 10 years old ''he told someone he wanted to be an eggplant when he grew up.''
        Mrs. de Antonio said the film would be shown at a memorial service next month.
        Most of Mr. de Antonio's documentaries were scathing political statements. His 1971 film, ''Millhouse: A White Comedy,'' a study of the political career of Richard M. Nixon, was decribed by Vincent Canby in The New York Times as ''exuberantly opinionated.'' Jobs in Many Fields
        He also produced ''That's Where the Action Is,'' about New York's 1965 mayoral campaign; ''Rush to Judgment'' (1967), on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy; ''In the Year of the Pig'' (1969), an antiwar film that Mr. Canby said ''will nail many people to their seats''; ''America Is Hard to See,'' about Eugene McCarthy; ''Painters Painting'' (1973), about the New York art world and ''the people who make it hustle''; ''Underground'' (1976), interviews with five members of the Weather Underground, made with Haskell Wexler and Mary Lampson, and ''In the King of Prussia'' (1983), about the Pennsylvania trial of a group of Roman Catholic radicals.
        Mr. de Antonio, the son of a doctor, went to Harvard, where he became a Marxist and was in the same class, 1940, as John Kennedy. Later he was a doctoral candidate in English literature, taught at the College of William and Mary and was an opera translator.
        He also represented artists, designers and photographers and was a longshoreman and barge captain.
        ''I make films for myself, and when I'm pleased with them I'm done with them,'' he said in an interview in 1971. ''I've never made a film with an audience in mind. . . . I'm not primarily interested in money. I'm interested in working things out.''
        Surviving, in addition to his wife, are a son, Emile; a daughter, Wren; a brother, Carlo, of Encino, Calif.; and five sisters, Ursula Bowring, of Philadelphia; Angelina Joseph, of Vallejo, Calif.; Sister Marie Louise, of Chicago; Eleanora West, of Wayland, Mass., and Josephine Bichler, of Chinchilla, Pa.
      