
       Ruth V. Washington, the Ambassador to Gambia and a retired United States Magistrate, died after an automobile collision early yesterday near her home in the Hartsdale section of Greenburgh, N.Y. She was 67 years old.
        Ruth V. Washington, the Ambassador to Gambia and a retired United States Magistrate, died after an automobile collision early yesterday near her home in the Hartsdale section of Greenburgh, N.Y. She was 67 years old.
        The driver of the other car, Angela M. Panessa, 21, of Scarsdale was taken to the White Plains Medical Center, where her condition was said to be stable. She was charged with driving while intoxicated, said Sgt. James Young of the Greenburgh police.
        Miss Washington, a lifelong member of the Republican Party and of many civic organizations, was due to leave this week to begin her ambassadorship to the West African nation of Gambia, succeeding Herbert E. Horowitz. Friends said she was looking forward to her mission and had already approached American business people and universities about addressing Gambia's poverty and illiteracy.
        ''Ruth would have been a great diplomat,'' said Representative Benjamin Gilman of New York, a close friend of Miss Washington. He described her death as ''a tragic loss at the peak of a brilliant career.''
        To Friends, 'the Little Giant'
        Another friend, Dr. Caroline Westerhoff of Prattville, Ala., said Miss Washington was a role model for young blacks and other minority youth.
        Born in Buffalo, Miss Washington graduated from Hunter College and the New York University Law School. A diminutive woman, under 5 feet tall, she was called ''the little giant'' or ''the little general'' by friends and relatives.
        Miss Washington held a number of government positions, including associate counsel for the State Division of Human Rights, commissioner of the State Workers' Compensation Board and chairwoman of the Benefits Review Board of the United States Department of Labor in Washington.
        Appointed a Federal Magistrate for the Southern District of New York in 1979, she was one of only two minority women in the country to hold such a post. She retired in 1987 and returned to private law practice.
        She is survived by two sisters: Leonora Lark of Bayside, Queens, and Bernice Jackson of Richmondville, N.Y.; and two brothers, James and Bernard Washington, both of Buffalo.
      