
       Arthur Gold, a Canadian pianist who performed for nearly 40 years as part of a piano duo with Robert Fizdale, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Manhattan apartment he shared with Mr. Fizdale. He was 72 years old, and also had a home in Water Mill, N.Y.
        Arthur Gold, a Canadian pianist who performed for nearly 40 years as part of a piano duo with Robert Fizdale, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Manhattan apartment he shared with Mr. Fizdale. He was 72 years old, and also had a home in Water Mill, N.Y.
        From the time they made their New York debut in 1944, with a concert of John Cage works at the New School for Social Research, Mr. Gold and Mr. Fizdale cultivated an interest in contemporary music and worked to recast the duo piano repertory.
        When they retired from the concert stage in 1982, they had not only extended the breadth and scope of their literature through an extensive commissioning program, but they had also been credited for raising the standard of duo piano teams.
        Mr. Gold was born in Toronto on Feb. 6, 1917, and moved to New York City in 1936 to study with Josef and Rosina Lhevinne at the Juilliard School. At Juilliard, he met Mr. Fizdale, who arrived at the school in 1939 to study with Ernest Hutcheson.
        Beginnings of a Team
        ''At the time, there were two pianos in all the practice studios at Juilliard, and from the time we first played duets together, it was clear that Arthur and I saw eye to eye about music,'' Mr. Fizdale said yesterday. ''In our last year at Juilliard, which was 1943, we decided to become a two-piano team, and we persuaded our teachers that since that was what we intended to do professionally, we should have a lesson as a duo once a week.''
        The duo's fascination with contemporary music became a matter of policy from the start. ''We decided that we would not play music that was not written for piano four-hands,'' Mr. Fizdale said. ''When we were still students, Arthur looked up Aaron Copland in the telephone book, and asked him to write a sonata for us.
        ''He laughed and said he was too busy, but he took time to speak to us, and put us in touch with other composers.''
        One was John Cage, who wrote ''A Book of Music'' and ''Three Dances'' for their debut. The works were scored for prepared pianos, instruments modified by the placement of objects on the strings inside the sound box.
        After their Cage concert, Mr. Gold and Mr. Fizdale solicited works from other composers, and in 1946 they presented a more conventional recital at Town Hall with new sonatas by Paul Bowles and Alexei Haieff. Darius Milhaud and Luciano Berio also composed concertos for them, and they commissioned Samuel Barber's ''Souvenirs'' and works by Ned Rorem, Virgil Thomson, Vittorio Rieti, Francis Poulenc and Germaine Tailleferre.
        They also revived neglected works, most notably the two early duo concertos by Felix Mendelssohn.
        The duo regularly toured in the United States and, after 1949, in Europe, and they recorded prolifically for the Columbia label.
        Books and Articles
        They retired in 1982 because of Mr. Fizdale's arthritis, and devoted themselves to what had already become a second career, writing. In 1980, they had published their first book, ''Misia,'' a biography of the Parisian pianist and arts patron Misia Sert. Four years later, they published ''The Gold and Fizdale Cookbook.'' Mr. Fizdale said yesterday that they had just completed a biography of Sarah Bernhardt.
        They also contributed articles about food to Vogue, and were contributing editors of Architectural Digest.
        Mr. Gold is survived by three sisters, Dorothy Kohen, Susan Smith and Lilian Messenger, all of Toronto. The funeral is to take place at noon on Saturday at Oakland Cemetery in Sag Harbor, N.Y.
      