
       Terry-Thomas, the comedian and character actor who satirized virtually every type of Briton from upper-class cads to crooks, from dandies to daredevils, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at a nursing home in Godalming, Surrey, England. He was 78 years old.
        Terry-Thomas, the comedian and character actor who satirized virtually every type of Briton from upper-class cads to crooks, from dandies to daredevils, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at a nursing home in Godalming, Surrey, England. He was 78 years old.
        The actor's death from complications of the degenerative muscle disease, which had disabled and impoverished him over nearly two decades, was announced by the Parkinson's Disease Society.
        His battle with the illness was in stark contrast to the zestful personas he had developed, often in skits he had written, during his early career in cabarets, music halls, radio and television, and then made internationally famous in dozens of movies.
        Capitalizing on his gaptoothed grin, expressive eyes, mobile eyebrows and Royal Guards mustache, he created a rich range of comic roles in films like ''Private's Progress,'' ''Man in a Cocked Hat,'' ''I'm All Right, Jack,'' ''School for Scoundrels,'' ''It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World,'' ''Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines,'' ''How to Murder Your Wife.''
        A quintessential role came in ''Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines'' (1965), a madcap adventure about a 1910 air race from London to Paris in which, as Sir Percival Ware-Armitage, an evil Briton, he left no wire uncut and strut unsawed to foil his rivals.
        Seemingly without effort, the actor shifted between malevolent and naive moods and characters, who were usually impeccably dressed, sporty danglers of long cigarette holders.
        Clown and Philosopher
        Until the onset of his illness, Terry-Thomas was a tall, lithe man of exuberant friendliness whose conversation bubbled with self-deprecation and ripe quips. Friends, associates and interviewers dubbed him a compulsive clown and whimsical philosopher, as wildly gallant and debonair as his roles. They offered these examples:
        * He delayed working until he was 27 ''because my father bought my clothes and women and things.''
        * Asked by a reporter why he sometimes accepted small roles, he replied, ''I'm too busy to do big ones.''
        * On the prospects for winning an English football pool, he remarked: ''It's like casting a bottle containing a message into the sea. You won't get an answer - but you might.''
        Born in London on July 14, 1911, into a well-to-do family, he was christened Thomas Terry Hoar Stevens. He grew up in London and North Devon, was educated at a private school and Ardingly College in Sussex, and conducted and played a ukulele in a jazz band.
        He worked as a clerk and then as a meat salesman in a London company, where he performed with its dramatic society. He became, successively, a band organizer and leader, a dancer and a vaudeville impersonator, and he earned roles in movies, radio, cabaret and music halls. Seeking a catchy professional name, he tried Thomas Terry and Terry Thomas. He then added a hyphen, which he later likened to ''the gap in my teeth.'' In World War II, he served in Britain's signal corps, rising from private to sergeant.
        In 1946, he joined the London revue ''Piccadilly Hayride,'' was hailed as a new comic discovery, and won increasing prominence on stage and in nightclubs, radio, television and films. He achieved an international success in the 1956 film ''Private's Progress,'' a biting farce about Britain's peacetime army.
        Terry-Thomas was married to Ida Patlanskey, a dancer, from 1938 until they were divorced in 1962. A year later, he married Belinda Cunningham, with whom he had two sons, Tiger and Cushan. His wife and sons survive.
        The couple lived on Ibiza in Spain's Balearic Islands until 1984, when they had to sell their villa and return to London because of debts arising from the actor's illness. He could not work in recent years, and last spring friends and colleagues held a London benefit for him that raised $51,00. He was too ill to attend, explaining that sometimes ''I cannot say the simplist possible word.''
      