
       Laurence J. Peter, who climbed the best-seller lists with a book meant to satirize ladder climbers everywhere, died Friday at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 70 years old.
        Laurence J. Peter, who climbed the best-seller lists with a book meant to satirize ladder climbers everywhere, died Friday at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 70 years old.
        His widow, Irene Peter, said he died of complications of a stroke he suffered in January 1988.
        The Peter Principle, introduced in a 1969 book of the same name that Dr. Peter wrote with Raymond Hull, became as much a part of the language as Murphy's Law and Catch-22. The Peter Principle stated, ''In a hierarchy every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence.''
        Dr. Peter's 179-page explanation of why this was so contained example after example of people whose reward for a job well done was a promotion -and responsibilities they could not handle, meaning no further promotions.
        Cream Turns Sour
        Dr. Peter found such people in businesses, school systems, government agencies, churches and political parties. ''The cream rises until it sours,'' he wrote, summarizing the result: every bureaucracy was inevitably made up almost entirely of people inadequate to their tasks.
        Dr. Peter's principle appealed to middle-management bureaucrats whose shaky pretensions to power the book unmasked. These would-be ladder climbers liked Dr. Peter's description of the boss. ''In every thriving organization,'' he said, ''there is a considerable accumulation of dead wood at the executive level.''
        The book outlined the hazards of ladder climbing, including ulcers, alcoholism, allergies and Tabulatory Gigantism - an obsession with having a bigger desk than one's colleagues.
        Dr. Peter maintained that his principle was ''the key to an understanding of the whole structure of civilization.'' He also said he was only kidding. Publisher's Weekly, which was not kidding, said the book was ''precisely geared for the Age of Conglomerates.'' Some conglomerates - which were not kidding either - offered to hire Dr. Peter as their management guru. He turned them down, saying he did not want to rise above his own level of competence. #30 Rejection Slips Dr. Peter's competence as a principle discoverer was not initially recognized. When he first submitted the manuscript in 1964, McGraw-Hill, which had published his education textbook some years earlier, sent back a rejection slip. ''I can foresee no commercial possibilities for such a book and consequently can offer no encouragement,'' the editor wrote.
        Thirty publishers and 30 turndowns later, William Morrow & Company paid $2,500 for the manuscript and ordered a 10,000-copy run of ''The Peter Principle: Why Things Always Go Wrong.'' In the spirit of the principle, Morrow set one letter of the title backwards.
        Lawrence Hughes, the chairman and chief executive of the Hearst Trade Books Group, which includes William Morrow, said no one expected the book to be a big hit. But it sold more than 200,000 copies in its first year, was on The New York Times best-seller list through 1970 and was translated into 38 languages.
        Dr. Peter was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, on Sept. 16, 1919. He received his bachelor's degree in 1957 and his master's degree in education in 1958 from Western Washington State College and his doctorate in education from Washington State College in 1963. He taught in Vancouver schools and worked as a psychologist and assistant professor at the University of British Columbia before moving to California in 1966, where he became a professor of education at the University of Southern California.
        He retired from academic life in 1970 and lived off the earnings from ''The Peter Principle.'' He wrote eight other books, including ''The Peter Prescription'' in 1972, ''The Peter Quotations'' in 1977 and, with the comedian Bill Dana, ''The Laughter Prescription'' in 1982.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, John, of Vancouver, and Edward, of Prince George, British Columbia; two daughters, Margaret Denney of Nanoose Bay, British Columbia, and Alice Boren, of Falls Church, Va., and three grandchildren.
      