
       Dr. Herbert Pollack, a physician, educator and Government consultant, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan before moving to Washington about 10 years ago.
        Dr. Herbert Pollack, a physician, educator and Government consultant, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan before moving to Washington about 10 years ago.
        In 1977, Dr. Pollack testified before a Senate subcommittee investigating the effects of microwave radiation on employees at the United States Embassy in Moscow. He told the panel that there appeared to be no long-term harmful effects from the radiation, which the Soviets were directing toward State Department employees at the Embassy. He said that while about a third of the employees showed a slight change in their blood composition, the condition disappeared after they left Moscow.
        A 1929 graduate of the Cornell University School of Medicine, Dr. Pollack earned a Ph.D. in physiology at the University of Minnesota in 1933. He taught at Cornell and at the Mayo Clinic before joining the faculty of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, where he remained until 1948.
        He then joined the faculty of the New York University Medical School, and in 1961 became a member of the senior technical staff of the Institute for Defense Analysis. Afterward, he taught at the George Washington University School of Medicine, where he was a professor emeritus.
        Adviser and Consultant
        Besides teaching, he was a physician at Mount Sinai Hospital, Bellevue Hospital and the New York University Medical Center.
        In the 1960's and 1970's, he was also a consultant to the Secretary of War, the United States Public Health Service, the Surgeon General and the Department of the Army, as well as a member of the Electromagnetic Radiation Management Advisory Council in the office of the President.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Hexter Brill; two daughters, Constance Cohen of Manhattan and Jane Sobel of San Diego; a brother, Dr. Albert Pollack of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      