
       Alberto Lleras Camargo, twice President of Colombia and an architect of a 16-year coalition Government that reduced rural violence, died today after a long illness, a presidential spokesman said.
        Alberto Lleras Camargo, twice President of Colombia and an architect of a 16-year coalition Government that reduced rural violence, died today after a long illness, a presidential spokesman said.
        Mr. Lleras Camargo, 83 years old, who served as President in 1945-46 and in 1958-62, was viewed as a statesman and was known for setting up a number of regional organizations.
        He was the first Secretary General of the Organization of American States, serving for six years after the group's founding in 1948. He also helped establish the Latin American Free Trade Association in 1961 to reduce tariffs in the region.
        The Government decreed three days of national mourning.
        A Pact to End Violence
        A prominent member of the Liberal Party, Mr. Lleras Camargo was instrumental in forming a coalition with the other main political force, the Conservatives, to end widespread rural partisan conflict known as La Violencia, estimated to have taken over 200,000 lives.
        The pact, known as the National Front, was drawn up in 1957 to last 16 years and approved in a referendum.
        Mr. Lleras Camargo was the first president of the front.
        Born in Bogota in 1906, Mr. Lleras Camargo studied political science at a local university. He did not graduate, becoming instead a foreign correspondent and later news editor of the leading newspaper, El Tiempo.
        President of Legislature
        He served as president of the House of Representatives before becoming Interior Minister under reformist governments in the mid-1930's and in the early 1940's under Alfonso Lopez Pumarejo.
        He became interim President for one year from August 1945 after Mr. Lopez Pumarejo's resignation three years into his four-year term. Mr. Lleras Camargo's interim presidency made possible an orderly transfer of power after the Conservative victory in the 1946 elections.
        As the only candidate acceptable to the majority leadership of both parties, Mr. Lleras Camargo was elected President in 1958. He established Colombia's first agrarian reform legislation and drew up a 10-year social and economic development plan.
        Mr. Lleras Camargo is survived by his wife, Berta Puga de Lleras, and four children. A private funeral is planned.
      