
       Y. C. James Yen, founder of a movement to combat illiteracy, poverty and hunger in developing countries on three continents, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 96 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Y. C. James Yen, founder of a movement to combat illiteracy, poverty and hunger in developing countries on three continents, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 96 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1960, Dr. Yen, a Chinese-born and Yale-educated teacher, founded the International Institute of Rural Reconstruction, a network that coordinates his program to promote self-help for the poor in dozens of countries.
        ''We do not offer relief to the poor, but release,'' Dr. Yen said six years ago when he was awarded a People to People Eisenhower Medallion recognizing his more than 60 years of work with the world's destitute.
        Dr. Yen was born Yen Yang-ch'u on Oct. 16, 1893, in the province of Sichuan, then a remote region, to an aristocratic family whose members were traditionally scholars and officials. He was taught English as a child and became a Christian at the age of 12.
        Was Sent to Yale
        Unable to enter Hong Kong University because he was not a British subject, he was sent to Yale University, where he supplemented a scholarship with earnings as a choir singer and added the name James to his Chinese initials.
        Upon his graduation in 1918, Dr. Yen went to France to work as a volunteer for the Y.M.C.A. among 20,000 illiterate Chinese laborers who had been imported to dig trenches. While writing letters home for them by day and translating news for them at night, he developed a basic Chinese vocabulary of about 1,300 characters.
        He later returned to the United States, earned a master's degree at Princeton University and then went to his homeland to begin teaching in Changsha and Hopeh provinces.
        In 1928 he began seeking financial support for his movement. John D. Rockefeller Jr. made a personal gift of $100,000 that became the catalyst for others to contribtute.
        Japanese Disrupted His Work
        Dr. Yen's work in China was disrupted by the Japanese invasion of 1937 but after World War II he was instrumental in getting the United States to spend $27.5 million for rural reconstruction in China.
        His organization eventually expanded to Africa and Latin America through autonomously operated affiliates that have trained specialists in nearly 40 countries to teach impoverished people modern techniques in agriculture, public health and family planning, as well as literacy.
        Dr. Yen's wife, the former Alice Huie, who died in 1980, was the daughter of a Chinese Christian missionary in New York's Chinatown.
        Dr. Yen, who remained active until his final illness, is survived by two daughters, Grace, of Irvington, N.Y., and Alice, of Scottsdale, Ariz.; two sons, Zhendung and Hsinmin, both of whom live in China; 14 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      