
       Donald J. Newman, a criminologist and former dean of the School of Criminal Justice at the State University of New York at Albany, died of a stroke on Friday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in the Albany suburb of Slingerlands.
        Donald J. Newman, a criminologist and former dean of the School of Criminal Justice at the State University of New York at Albany, died of a stroke on Friday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in the Albany suburb of Slingerlands.
        Dr. Newman was nationally known as an authority on plea bargaining, parole and prison conditions. Vincent O'Leary, president of SUNY at Albany and Dr. Newman's predecessor as dean of the School of Criminal Justice, said yesterday that Dr. Newman had been influential in developing the concept of criminal justice as a unified discipline embracing the police, prosecutors, prison and parole.
        A native of Janesville, Wis., Dr. Newman served in the Army in World War II before receiving bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Wisconsin. He taught sociology at St. Lawrence University in New York from 1953 to 1960, then returned to Wisconsin to teach law and social work until 1967, when he became professor of criminal justice at SUNY.
        He was named dean in 1977 and resigned the post in 1984 because of illness, but he continued to teach.
        While supporting plea bargaining with criminal defendants as necessary to the functioning of the justice system, Dr. Newman pointed to three dangers: that career criminals might get off too easily, that a person who was not guilty might plead guilty for fear of receiving a long prison term if convicted and that the bargain often sent the defendant to a short-term jail where there was no rehabilitation program.
        Dr. Newman opposed efforts in several states to abolish parole, arguing that it reduced prison overcrowding and permitted supervision of offenders when they returned to society. He wrote several books about the criminal justice system.
        Surviving are his second wife, the former Katherine Blueglass; two sons, Richard, of Danbury, Conn., and Kendall, of San Diego; a daughter, Bethany Schroeder of Averill Park, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      