
       Edwin F. Shelley, a management consultant and an inventor and engineer, died of a heart attack yesterday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in New Rochelle.
        Edwin F. Shelley, a management consultant and an inventor and engineer, died of a heart attack yesterday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in New Rochelle.
        In recent years Mr. Shelley was director of the center for energy policy and research of the New York Institute of Technology in Old Westbury, L.I. He had joined the institute in 1975 as a trustee.
        He founded E. F. Shelley & Company, a Manhattan consulting concern, in 1965 and became its president. Among its projects was the installation of a computerized job bank for 1,000 United States Employment Service offices and the building of a national data center for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s industrial union department. Mr. Shelley remained with the company until 1975, when he sold his interest.
        From 1957 to 1964, he was an executive for U.S. Industries Inc. Here he developed commercial production-line robots and invented automatic mail-sorting systems and automated training equipment for the teaching of clerical skills.
        Manager of Arms Laboratory
        From 1950 to 1957, Mr. Shelley was co-founder, vice president and general manager of Bulova Research and Development Laboratories, which developed ordnance devices in artillery, aircraft and missile systems. And from 1948 to 1950, he was president and chief engineer of the American Chronoscope Corporation.
        Mr. Shelley was a past president of the National Council on the Aging, a director of the Office of Institutional Liaison, director of the Center for Energy Policy and Research and founding director of the National Association of Energy Service Companies Inc.
        He graduated from Columbia College in 1940, received a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from the Columbia University School of Engineering in 1941 and attended the Harvard Business School in 1957.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Florence Dubroff; a daughter, Carolyn Lebel of Brooklyn Heights in New York City; a son, William E., of New Rochelle; a sister, Phyllis Jaffe of Scarborough, N.Y., and a brother, Heywood, of Brooklyn Heights, and two grandchildren.
      