
       Naruhiko Higashikuni, a member of the Japanese imperial family who became the country's first Prime Minister after World War II, died Saturday. He was 102 years old.
        Naruhiko Higashikuni, a member of the Japanese imperial family who became the country's first Prime Minister after World War II, died Saturday. He was 102 years old.
        Mr. Higashikuni was the first imperial family member to head a Cabinet. He formed it two days after Japan surrendered on Aug. 15, 1945, at the request of the late Emperor Hirohito.
        His Cabinet lasted less than two months because of general confusion in the country in the immediate postwar period.
        Militarist Became a Monk
        An uncle of Emperor Hirohito by marriage and a royal prince, Mr. Higashikuni had a long career in the Japanese Army lasting through World War II.
        After the surrender he was quickly named by the Emperor to form a Cabinet. The selection was surprising because Mr. Higashikuni had been branded a militarist by the Allied command. Mr. Higashikuni had reportedly threatened to put on trial and possibly execute Allied airmen forced to bail out over Japanese territory.
        As a young prince he was sent to the Tokyo Military Academy. In 1915 he married a cousin but five years later went alone to Paris as a military attache, where he developed a reputation for driving fast cars and became involved with a Frenchwoman. He remained in France until 1927, when his income was cut off and an imperial chamberlain was sent to bring him home.
        After holding several routine army commands, he was made chief of military aviation in 1937, shortly after Japan went to war with China. He became a full general in 1939 and two years later, three days after the attack on Pearl Harbor, he was put in charge of home defense headquarters.
        During the postwar Allied occupation, not long after his short-lived government was replaced, he was deprived of his princely title and became a Buddhist monk.
        There was no immediate word on survivors.
      