
       Ian Charleson, who won international fame in the 1981 film ''Chariots of Fire'' as a devout Scottish runner competing in the 1924 Paris Olympics, died of AIDS on Saturday night at his home in London. He was 40 years old.
        Ian Charleson, who won international fame in the 1981 film ''Chariots of Fire'' as a devout Scottish runner competing in the 1924 Paris Olympics, died of AIDS on Saturday night at his home in London. He was 40 years old.
        His agent, Michael Whitehall, told The Associated Press that the actor had died of septicemia, a disease caused by microorganisms in the blood, after ''a courageous struggle with the AIDS virus.''
        In ''Chariots of Fire,'' he portrayed Eric Liddell, a Presbyterian missionary who refused to take part in the Games on the Sabbath. One of his teammates and a main competitor was an English Jew (played by Ben Cross) furiously battling anti-Semitism.
        A Spate of Awards
        The movie, directed by Hugh Hudson, produced by David Puttnam and written by Colin Welland, was a runaway hit and won an Academy Award and a British Film Award for best picture and other Oscars for top screenplay, musical score and costume design.
        In the last decade, Mr. Charleson also won praise for leading stage performances in London in Sam Shepard's ''Fool for Love,'' Tennessee Williams's ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' and as ''Hamlet''; in many plays on television, including Ivan Turgenev's ''Month in the Country'' and in such films as ''Gandhi'' and ''Greystoke: The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes.''
        'Performance of His Life'
        Mr. Whitehall said he had seen Mr. Charleson give the ''performance of his life'' when he ended his run in Hamlet at the National Theater nine weeks ago, and added, ''We have lost a much-loved, greatly respected and hugely talented young actor.''
        Mr. Charleson was a native of Edinburgh and a graduate of Edinburgh University and the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.
        A private family funeral is to be held in Scotland later this week and a memorial service is to be scheduled later in London.
      