
       Edward H. Kass, an epidemiologist who was a leading researcher into the mechanism of toxic shock syndrome in menstruating women, died of lung cancer Wednesday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 72 years old.
        Edward H. Kass, an epidemiologist who was a leading researcher into the mechanism of toxic shock syndrome in menstruating women, died of lung cancer Wednesday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 72 years old.
        Dr. Kass was for many years the William Ellery Channing Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He was also the founder and first director of the Channing Laboratory at the school and at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. Although he had retired from both positions in the last two years, he continued to pursue research until 10 days ago.
        In 1985 Dr. Kass led a team of scientists who found that certain fibers contained in some tampons had a powerful ability to absorb magnesium, enhancing production in the body of a bacterial toxin that causes toxic shock syndrome, a rare but sometimes fatal illness.
        Dr. Kass's other research interests included a 14-community national survey in the late 1970's and early 1980's of the results of the National Heart and Lung Institute's hypertension detection and follow-up program.
        Interest in Hypertension
        His interest in hypertension led him to explore various facets of the disease, and he uncovered evidence suggesting that it may begin in early childhood and that even mild hypertension in adults should be treated to prevent detrimental effects on other organs.
        In the mid-1970's Dr. Kass was chairman of a committee of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration that made recommendations for studying the effects of weightlessness on astronauts' metabolism and for examining material brought from the Moon by the Apollo missions.
        His interest in the history of medicine resulted in a 1988 biography, which he wrote with his wife, Amalie, of Thomas Hodgkin, the 19th century English physician for whom Hodgkin's disease is named.
        Dr. Kass was a founding member and first president of the Infectious Disease Society of America and the founding editor of the Journal of Infectious Diseases. In 1979 he started a new journal, Reviews in Infectious Diseases, which he edited through last month's issue.
        Varied Interests
        Early in his career Dr. Kass was one of the first scientists to suggest a quantitative approach to the study of urinary infections, developing a simple, inexpensive technique for such study. The technique made it possible to demonstrate the effectiveness of treatment on pregnant women in reducing infant mortality and low birth weight.
        Dr. Kass, a native of the Bronx, received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Kentucky, a Ph.D. from the Univerity of Wisconsin and an M.D. from the University of California. He joined the Harvard faculty and the staff of Boston City Hospital in 1947 to work on infectious disease research. He became a professor at Harvard in 1969 and senior physician at the Brigham Hospital in 1977.
        Dr. Kass was instrumental in establishing the East Boston Neighborhood Health Center, which, in partnership with the Channing Laboratory, has conducted studies adding to knowledge about high blood pressure, the use of oral contraceptives, middle ear and urinary tract infections, chronic lung disease and Alzheimer's disease.
        In the international health field he was involved in studies of infection and high blood pressure in developing countries. He was a member of the Royal College of Physicians in London, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Institute of Medicine.
        Dr. Kass's first wife, the former Fae Golden, died in 1973. He is survived by his second wife, the former Amalie Hecht; two sons, Robert, of Pittsburgh, and James, of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Nancy, of Baltimore; two sisters, Adele Sokolowsky of Delray Beach, Fla., and Pauline Dinin of Verona, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      