
       William M. Freeman, a business and financial news reporter, columnist and editor for The New York Times from 1932 until his retirement in 1976, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 76 years old and lived in Cambridge, N.Y.
        William M. Freeman, a business and financial news reporter, columnist and editor for The New York Times from 1932 until his retirement in 1976, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 76 years old and lived in Cambridge, N.Y.
        Best known for his reports on business and industrial life, Mr. Freeman was honored in 1953 by a management organization as ''the American newspaper writer or editor who has done the most to promote understanding and appreciation of the free-enterprise system by the newspaper-reading public.''
        As a member of The Times's financial and business news staff, Mr. Freeman won several publisher's awards, including one for his 1956 study of the success and failure of two popular magazines, Collier's and Woman's Home Companion. Another winner was his 1952 investigation into a shortage of secretaries and other office workers.
        Much of his career was spent covering advertising and marketing, and in the 1950's he wrote a whimsical column, ''The Merchant's Point of View.''
        Wrote Several Books
        He was born in Jersey City on Sept. 13, 1913, and was president of his class at Rutgers University, where he graduated with honors in 1932. While at Rutgers, he began working summers for The Times.
        His career at the newspaper was interrupted in the early 1940's by his appointment as executive assistant to the Governor of the Virgin Islands and three years in the Army. He was managing editor of the southern German edition of Stars and Stripes.
        He was the author of several books, including ''The Big Name,'' which traced the history of testimonial advertising, and ''The Martini Book,'' a history of gin.
        A devoted fan of his English-born mother, an actress whose stage name was Marian Leeds, Mr. Freeman loved the theater. He joined The Lambs, the actors' club in New York, and appeared in several of its plays. He was also a member of the Overseas Press Club.
        He had no survivors.
      