
       Louis A. Schuker, an educator who in a 44-year career in the New York City public school system built a reputation as an iron-willed administrator and an outspoken proponent of the merit system for hiring teachers, died of heart failure Friday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 84 years old and also had a home in Boca Raton,
        Louis A. Schuker, an educator who in a 44-year career in the New York City public school system built a reputation as an iron-willed administrator and an outspoken proponent of the merit system for hiring teachers, died of heart failure Friday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 84 years old and also had a home in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Mr. Schuker, who was the principal of Jamaica High School in Queens when he retired in 1971, was a foe of decentralization and at times a scathing critic of the central Board of Education and the schools chancellors.
        In 1969, Mr. Schuker suspended a student for refusing to stand up or leave the room when the class pledged allegiance to the flag. He readmitted the student only when a Federal court ordered him to, but he continued to pressure students to stand or leave the room until the New York Civil Liberties Union went to court to stop the practice.
        He was president of the High School Principals Association when it struck in sympathy with the United Federation of Teachers in 1968.
        'Teach the Kids Something'
        Mr. Schuker was scornful of many innovations that he considered dangerous experiments.
        ''You can experiment with almost anything,'' he once said. ''You can take your food backward if you want to. But an education experiment should be just as experimental as a medical experiment. Today it is a school without walls, or an open campus, or a parkway school. I think the basic thing is to have a good school and teach the kids something.''
        At Jamaica High School he was proud that his students had won Westinghouse science scholarships every year during his time there, that the school was a pioneer in programs for the disadvantaged and that the building and its grounds stayed clean and unvandalized.
        Mr. Schuker was born in Poland, and taken as a child to Columbia, S.C., and later to Brooklyn, where he worked in his father's general store while going to Eastern District High School and to City College. He received master's and doctoral degrees from Columbia.
        Mr. Schuker's wife, Millicent, who was an English teacher, died in 1988. He is survived by two sons, Stephen, of Cambridge, Mass., and Theodore, of Paris; two daughters, Dr. Eleanor Schuker and Dr. Jacqueline Winterkorn-Meikle, both of Manhattan; a brother, Lester, of South Pasadena, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      