
       Jack Iams, a journalist, a novelist and an editor, died of a stroke on Saturday. At the time of his death, he and his wife, Joan Walker Wenning Iams, were en route to New York City from London. Mr. Iams, whose journalistic career spanned more than half a century, was 79 years old.
        Jack Iams, a journalist, a novelist and an editor, died of a stroke on Saturday. At the time of his death, he and his wife, Joan Walker Wenning Iams, were en route to New York City from London. Mr. Iams, whose journalistic career spanned more than half a century, was 79 years old.
        At various times, he was a foreign correspondent, a writer for Newsweek, and an author of comic and mystery novels.
        Samuel Harvey Iams Jr. was born in Baltimore on Nov. 15, 1910. After graduating from St. Paul's School and Princeton University in 1932, he became a reporter for The London Daily Mail. He then wrote for other newspapers - including The Daily News - and Newsweek. He became a television critic for The New York Herald Tribune and was an editor of Atlas magazine, which is now known as World Press Review.
        'Brilliantly Witty'
        He wrote 13 books, including ''The Countess to Boot,'' ''Propelled by Experience'' and ''Do Not Murder Before Christmas.'' A review in The New York Times Book Review said his 1939 novel, ''Table for Four,'' was ''as brilliantly witty as the best of the British brand,'' and favorably compared it to Evelyn Waugh's ''Vile Bodies.''
        At Princeton, he was active in theatricals at the Triangle Club, along with James Stewart, Joshua Logan and Jose Ferrer. He was a member of the Players.
        Eighteen years ago, he retired to Opio in the South of France, where he continued to write. Having sold their house, he and his wife were returning to the United States.
        He is survived by two sons and a daughter by his first marriage. His son David is the society reporter of The Philadelphia Inquirer; John is a correspondent in Moscow for The Associated Press, and Alice Kittredge lives in Panama. There are four grandchildren.
      