
       Mariano Rumor, a five-time Prime Minster who steered Italy's democracy through the shoals for part of its most trying period since the fall of Fascism, died Monday night of a heart attack in Vicenza, the town of his birth 74 years ago.
        Mariano Rumor, a five-time Prime Minster who steered Italy's democracy through the shoals for part of its most trying period since the fall of Fascism, died Monday night of a heart attack in Vicenza, the town of his birth 74 years ago.
        From December 1968 to October 1974, Mr. Rumor and his colleagues dealt with economic crises, balance-of-payment deficits and soaring inflation. At the same time, Italy was rife with strikes, terrorism from the ultra-left and ultra-right, fierce struggles between and within parties, a battle over newly enacted divorce laws and the campus revolts that shook other parts of the Western world as well.
        From 1974 to 1976 he served his country as Foreign Minister, and he represented it as a directly elected member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1984. He also headed the European Union of Christian Democrats and the World Union of Christian Democrats.
        Reputation as a Conciliator
        A mild-mannered, rotund man with a cherubic smile, Mr. Rumor was a formidable vote-getter for his Christian Democratic Party, which has led all but a few of the mostly short-lived governments since World War II. He had the reputation of a conciliator and headed four coalition governments in slightly varying combinations and one fragile minority Cabinet.
        Perhaps his most vexing years in office were 1969 and 1979. His coalition fell apart in July 1969 after not even seven months when both its senior parties, the Christian Democrats and the Socialists, quarreled among themselves and with each other over how to deal with continuing social unrest and with the Communists.
        Mr. Rumor, who was credited with relative vigor and effectiveness in facing the country's straits, then formed a minority Government, saying he did so to pave the way for a revived coalition. Terrorism seemed to bring the partners closer together, but continued bickering prompted Mr. Rumor to resign in February 1970 to force the issue.
        The Socialists balked, demanding an income policy favoring the poor and reserving the right to form local and provincial alliances with the Communists. Italy's democracy was thrown into its worst political crisis even as all its other upheavals seemed to near a crescendo.
        It took 48 days of caretakership before a new Government was sworn in: headed by Mr. Rumor, its four-party coalition was virtually the same that had governed for most of the time since 1963. It lasted until June, when Mr. Rumor quit in a dispute with organized labor, which refused to heed his request to call off a general strike, and with the Socialists, who again insisted on cooperation with the Communists.
        Mr. Rumor next formed a center-left coalition in July 1973, but it was overcome the following March by disagreements over how to deal with an ailing economy and high inflation. He was asked to try once more, and did until resigning again in June.
        Promoted Economic Recovery
        President Giovanni Leone rebuked the coalition partners for inability to work together in the face of their country's grave situation. Mr. Rumor, warning of ''grave sacrifices'' ahead, cobbled the coalition together again and embarked on an austerity program to prevent economic collapse.
        To that end, he gained the grudging support of the Communists and got Parliament to put his program into law. Mr. Rumor capped it with a strategy session with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of West Germany, who came through with $2 billion in credits to bolster Italy's reserves and the lira.
        Old rivalries got the better of his last Cabinet in October 1974, but Italy was on the way to economic recovery.
        While serving as Interior Minister in the early 1970's, Mr. Rumor was in charge of national security forces that had to deal not only with bombings, killings, street fights between neo-Fascists and the left fringe, but with organized crime, particularly the Mafia.
        On his orders, thousands of men and fleets of patrol cars were sent to any given city or province for sudden raids to round up suspects and weapons.
        Mr. Rumor had a close brush with the Lockheed Aircraft scandal, which involved an alleged $2 million paid in bribes to Italian officials to ease along negotiations on a large order for transport planes. The negotiations took place during his administration, but he was narrowly exonerated by Parliament while two former Defense Ministers were ordered to stand trial.
        Mr. Rumor, a bachelor, was a former high school teacher of literature who liked to read a lot. While in office, he left Rome every weekend he could to take walks in the Alpine foothills near his hometown, where he had most of his friends and family.
      