
       Alan Hale Jr., an actor who gained fame as the jolly Skipper in the television series ''Gilligan's Island,'' died of cancer of the thymus on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Hollywood.
        Alan Hale Jr., an actor who gained fame as the jolly Skipper in the television series ''Gilligan's Island,'' died of cancer of the thymus on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Hollywood.
        The chubby, jocular actor played a variety of supporting roles in scores of movies, but achieved greater status on television. He performed in a 1952-53 adventure series called ''Biff Baker U.S.A.'' and in such comedy series as ''Casey Jones'' (1957) and ''The Good Guys'' (1968-70).
        He became a household name with ''Gilligan's Island,'' a sitcom about a group of zany castaways that was broadcast in prime time from 1964 to 1967. The show became one of the biggest rerun hits with youths in the 1960's and 70's when it went into afternoon repeats on local stations.
        'He Was So Strong'
        Bob Denver, who played the role of Gilligan, said yesterday that Mr. Hale ''was a great guy and a great physical comic.'' ''He was so strong that I could run across the stage, and he could catch me like a feather,'' he said. ''That's what made our comedy so great.''
        A cartoon version of the show, called ''The New Adventures of Gilligan,'' won more young fans on weekends from 1974 to 1977. A 1978 two-part reunion special called ''Rescue From Gilligan's Island'' revived the show's commercial magic. There were two follow-up specials, in 1979 and 1981.
        Mr. Hale's image as the Skipper persisted in the 1980's. After a day of golf, he often headed to Alan Hale's Lobster Barrel, a West Hollywood restaurant, where, wearing his skipper's cap, he greeted customers.
        Films and TV
        In early television, he appeared in many segments of major comedy and adventure series, and last year he was a guest on several prime-time shows. His films included ''Wild Boys of the Road'' (1933), ''To the Shores of Tripoli'' (1942), ''Four Days' Leave'' (1950), ''The West Point Story'' (1950) and ''The True Story of Jesse James'' (1957).
        The actor was a virtual look alike of his noted father, who performed in hundreds of movies, often as the jovial sidekick of such leading men as Errol Flynn. The senior Hale died in 1950 and his wife, who acted under the name Gretchen Hartman, died in 1979.
        Mr. Hale never strayed far from his native Los Angeles, except in World War II, when he served in the Coast Guard.
        He is survived by his wife, Naomi, three sons, a daughter, a sister and three grandchildren.
      