
       Howard E. Kershner, a businessman and an outspoken conservative about politics and economics who retired 50 years ago to devote himself to relief causes for children, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Southland Lutheran Home in Norwalk, Calif. He was 98 years old and had lived for several years in La Jolla,
        Howard E. Kershner, a businessman and an outspoken conservative about politics and economics who retired 50 years ago to devote himself to relief causes for children, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Southland Lutheran Home in Norwalk, Calif. He was 98 years old and had lived for several years in La Jolla, Calif.
        Mr. Kershner was at various times a newspaper editor and publisher, a real estate operator, builder, manufacturer and author. In 1939 he retired from active business and spent the rest of his life pursuing causes in which he believed.
        Shortly before World War II, he went to Europe for the American Friends Service Committee to provide food for children on both sides of the Spanish Civil War. He later organized a broader Quaker relief effort for European children and was a member of the Committee on Food for the Small Democracies.
        After the war, as vice president of the Save the Children Federation, he set up that organization's program of help to schoolchildren in Eastern and Southern Europe. He also raised money for UNICEF and was a founding member of CARE.
        In 1950 Mr. Kershner organized the Christian Freedom Foundation, edited its fortnightly journal, Christian Economics, and wrote a column, ''It's Up to You,'' which was printed in 225 daily and 425 weekly newspapers. From 1967-1973 he was a lay preacher for the Congregational Church in Los Angeles. For the next several years he taught economics at the Northwood Institute in Dallas before returning to California.
        Mr. Kershner was born in Tescott, Kan., and started work at the age of 12 as a newsboy and carpenter. He graduated from Friends University in Wichita, Kan., and studied economics at Harvard University before he became editor and publisher of The Dodge City (Kan.) Daily Journal.
        He was awarded the Order of Leopold by the Belgian Government and the Order of Merit by the International Union for the Protection of Children, and was a member of the French Legion of Honor. He wrote several books, including ''The Menace of Roosevelt and His Policies,'' published in 1936; ''Quaker Service in Modern War'' (1950) and ''God, Gold and Government'' (1956).
        Mr. Kershner's first wife, Gertrude, died in 1976. His second wife, Lenore, was killed in an automobile accident in 1981. His third wife, the former Mary DuVall, survives, as do a son, Wendell, of Hacienda Heights, Calif.; two daughters, Margaret Weber of Rochester and Linaford Bassett of South Burlington, Vt.; nine grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      