
       Charles Hernu, a French Socialist politician whose time as Defense Minister in the early 1980's was clouded by scandal, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Villeurbanne, a Lyons suburb where he had been Mayor for more than two decades. He was 66 years old.
        Charles Hernu, a French Socialist politician whose time as Defense Minister in the early 1980's was clouded by scandal, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Villeurbanne, a Lyons suburb where he had been Mayor for more than two decades. He was 66 years old.
        At his death, Mr. Hernu was a deputy in the French National Assembly. While he was Defense Minister, from 1981 until 1985, France became less isolationist in its military policies, and he oversaw the formation of a Rapid Deployment Force meant to intervene swiftly should West Germany come under threat first.
        Then came the incident involving the Greenpeace environmentalist organization in July 1985. Then French secret service frogmen affixed magnetic mines to the hull of the Rainbow Warrior, a Greenpeace vessel preparing to leave a New Zealand port to protest French nuclear tests in the Pacific. The explosion sank the ship and killed a Greenpeace photographer.
        Mr. Hernu initially said he bore no responsiblity for the incident, but only days later he resigned. Eventually, after two months of repeated denials, the French Government admitted that its agents had carried out the sinking under orders. Whether Mr. Hernu himself played a role in the matter has not been disclosed.
        Widespread Sympathy
        After his resignation, Mr. Hernu apparently benefited politically from widespread sympathy; he was seen as a person who had assumed responsibility for the Greenpeace affair in silence and with courage.
        Eugene Charles Hernu was born July 3, 1923, at Quimper, a port in Britanny. At 19, after attending secondary school in Lyons, he joined the French Resistance, which harried the German occupation forces in in World War II. In the Resistance, he formed an enduring friendship with Francois Mitterrand, now President of France.
        Later in the war he joined the army. Afterward he went into journalism, and in 1951 he entered the political world, where he was a protege of the Socialist leader Pierre Mendes-France. He was elected to a first term in the National Assembly in 1956 and was also a deputy in the 1970's as well as the 1980's. He was first elected Mayor of Villeurbanne in 1977.
        Mr. Hernu was married five times; two of his wives died. His survivors include his fifth wife, the former Martine Borg, whom he married in 1988; four children by two earlier marriages; and five grandchildren.
      