
       Dr. Joseph John Copeland, a biologist who became acting president of City College at the height of racial turbulence there in May 1969, died of pneumonia on Thursday at the Paul Kimball Medical Center in Lakewood, N.J. He was 82 years old and had moved to a retirement community in Lakewood from Mount Vernon, N
        Dr. Joseph John Copeland, a biologist who became acting president of City College at the height of racial turbulence there in May 1969, died of pneumonia on Thursday at the Paul Kimball Medical Center in Lakewood, N.J. He was 82 years old and had moved to a retirement community in Lakewood from Mount Vernon, N.Y., three years ago.
        Dr. Copeland had been a teacher at the college for 41 years when he was asked to be acting president of the turmoil-wracked campus at Convent Avenue and 138th Street. The college had been closed for two weeks after black and Puerto Rican students had barricaded themselves in buildings.
        Dozens of fires had been set, and classes for 20,000 students had been disrupted by rampaging minority students and their white supporters demanding a separate black and Puerto Rican studies program and a new admissions policy to guarantee that half the entering freshman class would be minority students.
        The son of an Indiana Quaker minister, Dr. Copeland, who earned a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1936, was asked to take the post of Dr. Buell G. Gallagher. Dr. Gallagher had been scheduled to resign at the end of the semester, but he asked to be relieved of his duties immediately.
        'We Will Have Law, Order'
        The college was an armed camp, with police officers outnumbering students. Dr. Copeland refused to accede to demands that the police be removed before negotiations resumed and said that although he was sympathetic to some of the students' demands, the police would stay as long as needed.
        ''We will have law, order, peace, harmony,'' he said on his first day in office. ''At the same time we will work as diligently and as rapidly as we are able to rectify the shortcomings that may have existed here in the past.''
        Talks resumed, and the Board of Higher Education later accelerated plans for admission for any city high school graduate and authorized departments of urban and ethnic studies at five colleges, including City College.
        Joined Faculty in '28
        Dr. Copeland took a year's sabbatical and returned to teaching, but ill health led him to retire in 1972. He then worked on creating a wildlife sanctuary in Trinidad.
        Born in Marion, Ind., on Aug. 27, 1907, Dr. Copeland earned a bachelor's degree at Earlham College and joined the City College faculty in 1928. He earned a Ph.D. at Columbia University in 1936 and was named a full professor at City College in 1963.
        He was a captain in the Army Air Forces in World War II and was recalled to duty for the Korean War.
        Surviving are his wife, Freda; two daughters, Janet Ciegler of West Columbia, S.C., and Marilyn Copeland of Spring Lake Heights, N.J.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      