
       Herbert Buell West, a retired foundation president and a former advertising executive, died of abdominal cancer on Sunday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 73 years old.
        Herbert Buell West, a retired foundation president and a former advertising executive, died of abdominal cancer on Sunday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. West headed the New York Community Trust for 22 years before retiring in November. When he became director and president of the trust in 1967, it had assets of $60 million. Under his direction, they rose, to $750 million.
        The trust was a model for community foundations across the country and internationally. Last year, it distributed $45 million to 2,500 charitable organizations in the New York metropolitan region.
        The trust was among the first charitable institutions to give money for the care of AIDS patients. It also provided money for services to children and families, for immigration efforts and for the arts, education and biochemical research.
        Advertising Executive
        Mr. West was president of affiliated foundations, Community Funds Inc. and the James Foundation. He was on the boards of the New York University Medical Center, the Council on Foundations, the National Charities Information Bureau, the Foundation Center, Welfare Research Inc., Travelers Aid-International Social Service and the North Country School.
        He was also active in Darien and had been president of A Better Chance, head of the Community Council and senior warden of St. Luke's Episcopal Church.
        Mr. West was born in Birmingham, Ala., on April 19, 1916. He graduated from Birmingham Southern College in 1936 and joined the advertising firm of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn as a writer.
        From 1941 to 1946, he served with the Adjutant General Corps of the Army and attained the rank of major. He rejoined the advertising agency after the war and retired in 1966 as a vice president and account supervisor.
        Surviving are his wife, Maria; two sons, Herbert Jr., of San Leandro, Calif., and McDonald, of Manhattan; three daughters, Newill West Preziosi of Mendham, N.J., Selden West Hochschartner of Lake Placid, N.Y., and Jane Hamilton West of Bridgeport, Conn., and two sisters, Dorothy, of Jacksonville, Fla., and Eleanor Smith of Bethesda, Md.
      