
       Dr. Roman Vishniac, a biologist whose brilliant talent for photography captured an extraordinary range of subjects, from Jewish life in Eastern Europe on the eve of the Holocaust to hitherto unseen life under the microscope, died of colon cancer yesterday morning at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 92 years old.
        Dr. Roman Vishniac, a biologist whose brilliant talent for photography captured an extraordinary range of subjects, from Jewish life in Eastern Europe on the eve of the Holocaust to hitherto unseen life under the microscope, died of colon cancer yesterday morning at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 92 years old.
        Dr. Vishniac's virtuosity and curiosity took him in many directions, always in an effort to record knowledge that could contribute to human awareness. His travels, mostly under duress, brought him from his native Russia, where he was born near St. Petersburg in 1897, to the United States in 1940, where he proceeded to gain recognition for his scientific accomplishments.
        But for the public, those achievements, which included filming microscopic creatures through the use of polarized light, were overshadowed by the photographs he took of Jews in prewar Eastern Europe and in Nazi Berlin.
        Those images have proved to be an extraordinary record, made with forebodings of misfortune, that bring alive the flavor of the shtetl, of a Jewish peasant tending geese in the Carpathian Mountains, of tumbledown shacks in the Jewish quarter of Lublin, Poland, of Jewish patriarchs, in long caftans and wearing the furry hat called a shtreimel, trudging through the snow.
        'Discovered How Undiscovered'
        Cornell Capa, the founder and director of the International Center of Photography, said yesterday that Dr. Vishniac was a man of great energy.
        ''He is a great loss,'' Mr. Capa said. ''I met him in 1966, and discovered how undiscovered he was.''
        In 1971, the center's predecessor, the International Fund for Concerned Photography, with Mr. Capa as curator, mounted an exhibition of Dr. Vishniac's photographs that paid tribute to his scientific work as well as to his photographs of European Jews.
        The photographer Edward Steichen wrote in an introduction to the exhibition: ''Roman Vishniac came back from his trips to Eastern Europe in the 1930's with a collection of photographs that has become an important historical document, for it gives a last-minute look at the human beings he photographed just before the fury of Nazi brutality exterminated them. The resulting photographs are among photography's finest documents of a time and place.''
        If there was a link between his devotion to his fellow Jews of Eastern Europe and his devotion to scientific pursuits it may well have been his concern for seeing things as they were.
        ''You can't teach biology with a bottle containing dead animals and organisms,'' he said in 1960 as he inaugurated a series of educational films at Yeshiva University.
        A Cockroach's Leg
        There was little hint of future turmoil in the early years of his life, when his father prospered as the owner of Russia's leading umbrella factory. He became interested in biology at the age of 7: with a camera lens over the eyepiece of a microscope, he photographed a leg of a cockroach.
        He received a doctorate degree in zoology in Moscow, and became an assistant professor of biology at Shanyavsky University. In 1917, he enrolled in a course in medicine sponsored by the Government to relieve a wartime shortage of doctors. In 1918, he immigrated to Latvia, where he received a passport, and traveled to Berlin, where he continued studies that also included Oriental art.
        In 1932, he began a series of trips that would, eight years later, add up to a 5,000-mile journey through Jewish communities in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary, Rumania and Czechoslovakia. In Germany, he photographed Nazi demonstrations and Jewish victims, and, because any Jew with a camera was suspect, he frequently had to pose as a Nazi to take the pictures. Just before World War II, he fled to France, where he spent three months in a concentration camp run by Vichy's pro-Nazi Government. He eventually obtained visas for himself and his family and arrived in New York in December 1940.
        Blue Leaves and Slime Mold
        After a brief stint as a portrait photographer, he began to demonstrate his flair for microphotography. He won the best-of-show award three years in a row at the annual exhibition of the New York chapter of the Biological Photographic Association. His subjects included the 42 blue eyes of the scallop, frost on dead leaves and slime mold.
        He was a professor of humanities at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. He also had academic affiliations with Yeshiva, where he was professor of biology education, and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
        He was active at his work until his death, said his daughter, Mara Kohn, of Santa Barbara, Calif. A book of his unpublished photographs of Jewish life is scheduled to be printed, she said. His books include ''A Vanished World'' (1983); ''Roman Vishniac'' (1974); ''Building Blocks of Life'' (1971); ''A Day of Pleasure'' (1969), and ''Polish Jews: A Pictorial Record'' (1942). His work has been exhibited widely, in the United States and abroad.
        He is survived by his wife, Edith; his daughter; four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. Funeral services are to be at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street, at 1 P.M. on Thursday.
      