
       Dr. Harry Lionel Shapiro, an anthropologist and former curator at the American Museum of Natural History, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital, where he was admitted Dec. 23. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Harry Lionel Shapiro, an anthropologist and former curator at the American Museum of Natural History, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital, where he was admitted Dec. 23. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He was known as an authority on physical anthropology, the study of the biological evolution of humankind.
        He also came to be considered the dean of forensic anthropologists. These are anthropologists who do work for the criminal-justice system and the military, notably in studying such human remains as bones, teeth and hair.
        Dr. Shapiro was concurrently chairman of the anthropology department at the museum and curator of physical anthropology there from 1942 until he retired in 1970 after 44 years on its staff. He was also a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, from 1943 to 1974.
        He served as president of the American Anthropological Association in 1948, of the American Ethnological Society in 1942 and 1943, and of the American Eugenics Society from 1956 to 1963.
        Influence on Scholars
        The current president of the Anthropological Association, Prof. Jane E. Buikstra of the University of Chicago, said yesterday that Dr. Shapiro ''did seminal work in physical and forensic anthropology, and he influenced a number of today's scholars in those fields.''
        ''He was well known for his breadth of interest and his active pursuit of new anthropological knowledge,'' Professor Buikstra said.
        He carried out studies on subjects like the effect of world migrations, the influence of environment on race and the effects of inbreeding on populations.
        Mutiny on the Bounty
        Early in his career, he attracted attention with a genetic study of the racially mixed descendants of Polynesian women and of some participants in the 1789 mutiny on board the British naval vessel the Bounty. Those mutineers founded a colony on Pitcairn Island in the South Pacific.
        After returning from a visit to the island in 1935, Dr. Shapiro reported: ''The Pitcairn Islanders show no ill effects of several generations of intermarriage. They are taller, and at least in some respects appear to be better developed physically, than either the English or the Polynesian races.''
        Later, he worked out the theme of, and supervised the preparation of, the museum's Hall of the Biology of Man, whose first section opened in 1961.
        At the time, an editorial in The New York Times said the hall was ''the newest thing of value in this city,'' showing ''through the most modern museum techniques, the evolution and biology of this fellow we know so much about and yet so little.'' The hall is now being renovated and is to reopen late in 1992.
        His other work at the museum included designing and overseeing its centennial exibition, titled ''Can Man Survive?'' It opened in 1969 and was on view at the museum for two years.
        Dr. Shapiro did much field work, including more than a dozen scientific sojourns in the Polynesian Islands. His scientific labors also took him elsewhere around Asia and to other areas ranging from Alaska to Spain, the Dominican Republic to New Zealand.
        Over the decades, he often helped the office of the Chief Medical Examiner of New York City in identifying the remains of murder victims.
        Identifying War Dead
        Soon after World War II, as a consultant to the United States Graves Registration Command, he set up a system of identifying unknown war dead that has been widely used.
        He was born on March 19, 1902, in Boston, the son of Jacob Shapiro and Rose Clemens Shapiro. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1923. He went on to earn a master's degree in 1925 and a Ph.D. - in physical anthropology - in 1926, both from Harvard University, serving as a tutor there in 1925 and 1926.
        He joined the museum staff in 1926 and was assistant curator in the anthropology department until 1931. He was associate curator from then until 1942.
        Retired but Active
        Long after he retired in 1970, Dr. Shapiro continued to come to his office at the museum. He also lectured on its behalf.
        His writings included the books ''The Heritage of the Bounty: The Story of Pitcairn Island Through Six Generations''(1936); ''Migration and Environment,'' a study of physical changes in Japanese immigrants to Hawaii and their descendants (1939); ''Aspects of Culture'' (1956), and ''The Jewish People: A Biological History'' (1960). He also edited ''Man, Culture and Society'' (1956), a collection of anthropological essays.
        Over the years, Dr. Shapiro was a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a director of the Louise Wise Services and the Field Foundation, and a member of many scholarly organizations. He won several awards for his work.
        He married Janice Sandler in 1938. She died in 1962.  He is survived by a daughter, Harriet, of Manhattan; two sons, James, also of Manhattan, and Thomas, of Gaithersburg, Md., and two grandchildren.
        His funeral is to be held tomorrow at 10 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, at 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
      