
       Joe Alex Morris, a journalist and author who specialized in foreign affairs and biography, died of pneumonia Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He also had homes in Guilford, Conn., and Vineyard Haven, Mass.
        Joe Alex Morris, a journalist and author who specialized in foreign affairs and biography, died of pneumonia Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He also had homes in Guilford, Conn., and Vineyard Haven, Mass.
        In the years before and during World War II, Mr. Morris was foreign editor of United Press, now United Press International, and later foreign editor of The New York Herald-Tribune. Later he was managing editor of Collier's magazine and book editor of The Greenwich (Conn.) News.
        Mr. Morris, who was born in Lancaster, Mo., graduated from the University of Missouri and worked for The Washington Daily News, The Tulsa Tribune and The Denver Morning Post before he joined United Press in New York in 1928.
        He was named manager of the New York bureau four years later and in 1935 became news editor in the wire service's Washington bureau. In 1938 he was made foreign news editor.
        An Editor at Collier's
        After shifting to The Herald-Tribune in 1944, Mr. Morris was appointed managing editor of Collier's in 1945, a post he held until 1949. A frequent contributor to magazines, he devoted himself mainly to freelance writing in subsequent years.
        He was the author of several books, including a 1960 biography of Nelson A. Rockefeller, then New York Governor, and biographies of the other Rockefeller brothers. His 1957 book, ''Deadline Every Minute,'' told the story of the first half-century of United Press.
        Mr. Morris's first wife, Maxine Pooler, died in 1964, and their son, Joe Jr., a foreign correspondent for The Los Angeles Times, was killed by a sniper's bullet in Teheran during the Iranian revolution in 1979.
        Surviving are his second wife, the former Jane Condliffe; a daughter, Claire Peckham of New London, Conn.; a sister, Ellison Morris of Washington, seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held next Wednesday at 5 P.M. in Christ Church, 5030 Riverdale Avenue in Riverdale.
      