
       Dr. Hugh C. M. Ross, a choral director who, as conductor of the Schola Cantorum of New York, worked with some of the greatest figures in 20th-Century music, died of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 91 years old.
        Dr. Hugh C. M. Ross, a choral director who, as conductor of the Schola Cantorum of New York, worked with some of the greatest figures in 20th-Century music, died of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 91 years old.
        As recently as 1985, when Dr. Ross conducted ''Liberte/Liberty,'' a celebration of the Statue of Liberty at Alice Tully Hall, The New York Times critic, Donal Henahan, wrote that he ''led the program with a commanding vigor.''
        Dr. Ross, who took up the baton at the Schola Cantorum in 1927, had directed the chorus in association with every conductor of the New York Philharmonic for more than half a century. The list of his friendships in music was studded with names like Toscanini, Boulez, Stravinsky, Villa-Lobos, Koussevitzky, Mitropoulos, Stokowski and Bernstein.
        ''He was a tall, spare, scholarly looking person,'' Dr. Ross's friend and neighbor, Gay Pauley, said yesterday.
        'A Tremendous Sense of Humor'
        ''He always had impeccable manners, an impeccable Britisher, although he had long since become a U.S. citizen,'' Mrs. Pauley said. ''He was gentle, always thoughtful, reserved, but with a tremendous sense of humor, a wry humor.''
        Born in Langport in Somerset, England - what he called ''King Arthur's country'' - Dr. Ross was the elder of two sons of David Melville Ross, the canon of Wells Cathedral. His mother taught him piano from an early age.
        One day, when he was 6, Dr. Ross later told an interviewer, his mother overheard him singing - on key - an aria from ''The Messiah'' in a room away from the piano. ''Well,'' he said, ''then she saw that I had some ability.''
        Before long, he had been introduced to the head of the Royal College of Music, studied organ, piano and violin and became a fellow of the Royal College of Organists at the age of 17 - the youngest student ever enrolled at the college. During World War I, he served as an artillery officer in France while simultaneously continuing his studies at the Royal College of Music and at Oxford University.
        Summer Conductor in Canada
        At 23, he was dispatched by Sir Hugh Allen, then head of the Royal College, to fill in for the summer as conductor of the Winnipeg Choir in Canada, a male ensemble that he took to Carnegie Hall in 1923. Dr. Ross remained in Winnipeg until 1927, when he came to New York to lead the Schola Cantorum. In 1933, he became a professor at the Manhattan School of Music, running the institution's chorus and madrigal groups and teaching musical history.
        Among his other teaching and conducting activities, he was chorus master at the annual summer music festival at Tanglewood in Massachusetts between 1942 and 1963. And during the 1950's he conducted the shows ''Golden Apples'' and ''Ballet Ballads'' on Broadway. He also served as executive director of the Sullivan Foundation, which fosters the careers of young singers trained in the United States.
        ''There are quite a number of brilliant young voices; the question is whether they can get to the top without being spoiled on the way,'' he said in 1986, noting that in the age of jet travel singers may be tempted to sing too frequently in too many places.
        A choral conductor's role, Dr. Ross said, requires ''knowing how to manage a body of voices, watching such things as ensemble and intonation, and, finally, understanding the meaning of the music.''
        Dr. Ross is survived by his wife, Ruth; two daughters, Kitty Outrwan and Grace Ross; one son, David, and two grandchildren, all of Manhattan. Services are scheduled for 2 P.M. Tuesday at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, Fifth Avenue at 90th Street.
      