
       Fire Chief Homer G. Bishop, the highest-ranking commander among New York City's uniformed firefighters, died early yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Middle Village, Queens.
        Fire Chief Homer G. Bishop, the highest-ranking commander among New York City's uniformed firefighters, died early yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Middle Village, Queens.
        A spokesman for the Fire Department, Assistant Commissioner John Mulligan, said yesterday evening that Chief Bishop had been hospitalized for treatment for leukemia for the last seven weeks.
        In his nearly 35 years in the department, Chief Bishop came up through the ranks to reach its top Civil Service post in November 1988. He became Chief of Department, a $99,617-a-year job that put him in command of the 12,000-member department, the country's biggest.
        His death was announced ''with deep regret and sympathy for his family'' by the outgoing Fire Commissioner, Joseph F. Bruno.
        Mayor Hails 'Devotion'
        The ''four fives'' signal was transmitted to the department's 364 fire companies yesterday. Traditionally, it was an order to toll the firehouse bell solemnly in four sets of five rings. Now, it is an order to lower the American flag to half-staff.
        Mayor David N. Dinkins, who was trying to reach the chief's family by telephone last night, hailed Chief Bishop's ''devotion to his profession.''
        The chief was known as a tough manager who sometimes rankled firefighters when the city's fiscal straits forced him to deliver bad news, like the closing of firehouses.
        ''If we'd have our druthers, we wouldn't eliminate any battalions,'' he remarked on one such occasion in 1982, when he was Chief of Operations. ''Fewer will not make us better.'' 'Difficult Decisions'
        The man Mayor Dinkins chose to succeed Commissioner Bruno, Carlos M. Rivera, said yesterday, ''We all admired, respected and will miss his ability to make difficult decisions in difficult times.''
        Mr. Rivera has been acting Chief while Chief Bishop was absent because of his illness. He was selected last year by Chief Bishop to succeed him as Chief of Operations - commanding all day-to-day operations.
        Chief Bishop himself had started as acting Chief of Department in 1988 when his predecessor, Robert J. Butler, took medical leave and retired after being injured in a fire.
        Homer G. Bishop was a police officer before becoming a fireman in 1955. He became a lieutenant in 1961. By the late 1970's, he was Borough Commander in Queens and later Brooklyn and rose to the post of Chief of Operations in 1980.
        Chief Bishop is survived by his wife, Mary; two sons, Stephen and Michael, a firefighter in Staten Island; two daughters, Maryann and Susan; two brothers, Donald and Roy, both retired members of the department, and five grandchildren.
        A funeral Mass will be said at 9:30 A.M. on Wednesday at the Church Of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal in Ridgewood, Queens.
      