
       Georges de Mestral, the 82-year-old Swiss inventor of Velcro, has died, his wife, Helen, said today.
        Georges de Mestral, the 82-year-old Swiss inventor of Velcro, has died, his wife, Helen, said today.
        Mr. de Mestral, who spent years perfecting the fastener that revolutionized much of the clothing industry, came upon the idea of Velcro after a walk in the woods outside Geneva in 1941. Mr. de Mestral's clothing became entangled in a patch of burrs and, as the story goes, this led him to wonder what made it stick.
        Years of research followed, and in 1948 he invented Velcro. Eventually he sold the world license for Velcro and lived on royalties and profits from his Swiss factory, Mrs. de Mestral said.
        'Velvet' and 'Crochet'
        Velcro - the name is a combination of ''velvet'' and ''crochet,'' the French word for hook - is made of two strips of nylon. On one strip is a pile made of tiny loops. The facing strip is covered with tiny nylon hooks. When pressed together the strips adhere, but they can easily be peeled apart and put together again.
        Velcro U.S.A., the American division of the Netherlands-based company Mr. de Mestral helped to establish, once estimated that the material could be opened and closed up to 50,000 times without loss of power.
        Today, Velcro is used for everything from keeping astronauts from floating off the floor of their spacecrafts to keeping artificial hearts in place, as well as the more mundane tasks of fastening clothing.
        One of Top 50 Inventions
        A group of international inventors voted Velcro one of the century's 50 most important independent inventions. But it was not Mr. de Mestral's only work.
        ''There was one stupid little thing that sold very well,'' Mrs. de Mestral said today. ''An asparagus peeler.''
        Mr. de Mestral was born near Nyon, Switzerland. At about the age of 12 he obtained his first patent for a toy airplane and later went on to become an engineer.
      