
       Dr. James Vaughn Warren, a prominent physician, educator and researcher in cardiovascular medicine, died of squamous cell skin cancer yesterday at Kobacker House, a hospice in Columbus, Ohio. He was 74 years old and lived in Dublin, Ohio.
        Dr. James Vaughn Warren, a prominent physician, educator and researcher in cardiovascular medicine, died of squamous cell skin cancer yesterday at Kobacker House, a hospice in Columbus, Ohio. He was 74 years old and lived in Dublin, Ohio.
        Dr. Warren gained worldwide recognition for 50 years of work in cardiovascular research and his important contributions to the understanding and prevention of sudden cardiac death.
        ''He was an innovator, a leader, an investigator with a wide range of interests,'' said Dr. William Hill, director of neurosurgery at Ohio State University, where Dr. Warren had headed the department of medicine.
        He said that in the 1950's Dr. Warren led an expedition to Africa to study blood pressure in giraffes. The research led to discoveries related to the control of blood pressure, and it contributed to manned space flight by providing insights into methods of maintaining blood pressure in a weightless environment.
        He was also one of the first physicians to use cardiac catheterization for diagnosing heart problems, and along with a colleague, Dr. Eugene A. Stead Jr., he helped define the mechanisms of congestive heart failure.
        Dr. Warren received numerous awards, including four from the American Heart Association. In 1988 he was honored by the Columbus USA Association in his native city of Columbus for his creation of the Heartmobile, a coronary emergency unit that is credited with saving thousands of lives in the city.
        He was a member of many professional organizations and served on the editorial boards of professional journals. He received honorary doctor of science degrees from Emory University and the Medical College of Ohio.
        A 1939 graduate of Harvard University Medical School, Dr. Warren served his residency at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. He later taught medicine at Emory University Medical School and then Yale University Medical School. In 1947 he returned to Emory, where he was a professor of medicine and chairman of the department of physiology.
        He also taught at Duke University and was chairman of the department of medicine at the University of Texas Medical School. In 1961 he returned to Ohio State, where he had received his pre-medical training. He was professor and chairman of the department of medicine from 1961 to 1979, then taught until 1986, when he became professor emeritus.
        Most recently, Dr. Warren was study director at the Institute of Medicine in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gloria Kicklighter.
      