
       Walter M. Jeffords Jr., former president, general manager and principal executive of the Brooklyn Borough Gas Company, died of a heart attack on Saturday while driving with his wife near their home in South Padre Island, Tex. He was 76 years old and also had residences in Christiana, Pa., Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and Lexington,
        Walter M. Jeffords Jr., former president, general manager and principal executive of the Brooklyn Borough Gas Company, died of a heart attack on Saturday while driving with his wife near their home in South Padre Island, Tex. He was 76 years old and also had residences in Christiana, Pa., Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and Lexington, Ky.
        Mr. Jeffords assumed the gas company leadership in 1949. He remained with the company until 1959, when it was acquired by the Brooklyn Union Gas Company. Two years after he became president Mr. Jeffords was elected to the board of directors of the Lafayette National Bank. In 1952, he was elected president of the Coney Island Chamber of Commerce, during the amusement center's heyday. He was also a former trustee of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences.
        More recently he was president and chairman of Northern Utilities in Portland, Me., now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bay State Gas Company in Canton, Mass.
        Mr. Jeffords, a horse fancier, was active in both fox hunting and thoroughbred racing. He was the owner of the first thoroughbred foal sired in 1975 by Secretariat, the 1973 Triple Crown winner. The mother, owned by Mr. Jeffords, was My Card, who won the Selima Stakes in 1964.
        He was a former master of fox hounds for the Rose Tree Hunt Club in York, Pa., and for Andrews Bridge Hounds. He was a member of the Jockey Club in Manhattan, and the breeder of many stakes winners. He was a vice president of the National Museum of Racing in Saratoga Springs and a member of the Westminster Kennel Club in Manhattan.
        Mr. Jeffords was born in Glen Riddle, Pa., and was an alumnus of Yale College. He served overseas as a major with the Army Field Artillery in World War II.
        In addition to his wife, the former Kathleen McLaughlin, Mr. Jeffords is survived by three sons, Walter M. 3d, of Berwyn, Pa., John Dobson, of Denver, and George Vincent, of Manhattan; a daughter, Sarah Dobson Radcliffe, also of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      