
       Samuel Cochran Phillips, an Air Force lieutenant general who directed the Apollo space program through the lunar landing in 1969, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 68 years old.
        Samuel Cochran Phillips, an Air Force lieutenant general who directed the Apollo space program through the lunar landing in 1969, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 68 years old.
        General Phillips, who retired from the Air Force in 1975, took over the Apollo program in its infancy in 1964.
        ''The men and equipment that are Apollo 11 have performed to perfection,'' he said at a news conference after the triumphant liftoff from the moon's surface by the mission commander, Neil A. Armstrong, and his co-pilot, Col. Edwin E. Aldrin Jr. ''Perfection is not too strong a word.''
        Before the launching of Apollo 10, in May 1969, Dr. Wernher von Braun, director of the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., singled out General Phillips as the man to whom the greatest credit belonged for pulling the many pieces of the program together and making them work.
        In May 1969, astronauts aboard Apollo 10's lunar module came within 9.4 statute miles of the moon. But the mission did not include a landing because the module's radar systems had never been tested in flight.
        Change of Assignment
        At the time of that successful mission, General Phillips told his wife, Betty Ann, ''I hope I have enough strength for Number 11.''
        He did, and men landed on the moon two months later.
        During the Apollo 11 flight, General Phillips announced his intention to return to an Air Force assignment. In September 1969 he became commander of the Air Force Space Program and Missile System Organization.
        Born Feb. 19, 1921, in Springerville, Ariz., he became a lieutenant in the Army after graduating from the University of Wyoming in 1942 with a degree in electrical engineering. After taking flight training and shifting to the Army Air Corps, he served in England with the Eighth Air Force from 1944 to 1945.
        He then moved to European headquarters in Frankfurt and in 1947 became director of operations at the armament laboratory working on the B-52 bomber project. After several assignments with the Strategic Air Command, he was assigned to manage the development of the Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missile program.
        Success Attracted NASA
        It was his success in keeping the Air Force's Minuteman program on target that attracted the attention of the leaders of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Dr. George E. Mueller, associate administrator for manned flight, said in announcing the appointment in December 1963, ''General Phillips's experience in managing the Minuteman program for the Air Force, where he met or exceeded all program objectives including schedules and costs, brings to NASA the high qualifications necessary for carrying out the large and complex Apollo program.''
        In 1964, General Phillips was lent by the Air Force to the Apollo program. Before the lunar landings, he was perhaps best known for issuing a report on the launching-pad fire in 1967 that killed three Apollo astronauts. The report was highly critical of North American Aviation Inc., the prime contractor on the Apollo spacecraft, and implied that the contract would be withdrawn if changes were not made.
        Although he wore civilian clothes and worked in his shirt sleeves, the 6-foot-tall general always kept a firm jaw and sat with military erectness. He was a hands-on administrator of the Apollo program, holding daily meetings, making countless telephone calls and visiting contractors' plants and installations to keep abreast of any problems that might develop.
        After leaving the space program, General Phillips commanded the Space and Missile System Organization for the Air Force until 1972 when he became director of the National Security Agency. He was the agency's chief of Central Service Security. In 1973 he became commander of the Air Force Strategic Air Command; he retired two years later.
        General Phillips received numerous awards, including the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Croix de Guerre, the Legion of Merit and the Distinguished Service Medal from NASA.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Dana Phillips of Sacramento, Calif.; Janie Phillips of El Segundo, Calif., and Kathleen Phillips Esposito of Redondo Beach, Calif., and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 6, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Thursday about Samuel C. Phillips, a former director of the Apollo space program, misstated his last rank and military assignment. When he retired in 1975, he was a four-star general and commander of the Air Force Systems Command.
      