
       Dr. Julian Wolff, a physician who led the Baker Street Irregulars and edited the publication issued by the Sherlock Holmes enthusiasts, died of a blood disorderon Monday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Julian Wolff, a physician who led the Baker Street Irregulars and edited the publication issued by the Sherlock Holmes enthusiasts, died of a blood disorderon Monday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Wolff, a genial, cherubic man, was a prime mover of the club of devoted Sherlockians as its chief, or commissionaire, from 1960 to 1986, and as the editor of its scholarly quarterly, The Baker Street Journal, from 1961 to 1977. The Irregulars take their name from the ragtag fictional band of street urchins who aided the brilliant detective immortalized by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in four novels and 56 short stories from 1887 to 1927.
        The club, similar to others around the world, was founded in 1934 by Christopher Morley and other American literary figures to preserve and enrich with humorous, anecdotal papers memories and myths of Holmes's presumed life in Victorian London. An annual dinner, for 275 members around the country, is held in Manhattan to commemorate his presumed birth date, Jan. 6, 1854. Some members attend in Holmesian deerstalker caps and Inverness capes.
        Dr. Wolff, a specialist in treating victims of work-place injuries, retired from his private practice in 1955, at the age of 50, partly to give voluntary aid to the Irregulars. Several members hailed him yesterday as a dedicated, humorous man and the chief catalyst in fusing a heterogeneous group into an urbane, affectionate club.
        Dr. Wolff was a native of Manhattan and a graduate of DeWitt Clinton High School and Columbia College who earned his medical degree at the New York Medical College and interned at Greenpoint Hospital in Brooklyn.
        He enlisted in the Army in World War II and served in Southeast Asia, mainly establishing military hospitals. He rose to the rank of major and received a Bronze Star.
        Surviving are his wife, Eleanor; a brother, Dr. Ezra A. Wolff, of Manhasset, L.I., and a sister, Marjorie Rackow of Whitestone, Queens.
      