
       James Fleming Gordon, a retired Federal judge who 15 years ago imposed the first cross-district integration plan on public schools in a major metropolitan area, died Friday of complications after lung surgery at Sarasota, Fla., Memorial Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Venice, Fla.
        James Fleming Gordon, a retired Federal judge who 15 years ago imposed the first cross-district integration plan on public schools in a major metropolitan area, died Friday of complications after lung surgery at Sarasota, Fla., Memorial Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Venice, Fla.
        The integration plan drafted by Judge Gordon to achieve racial balance merged the urban school district in Louisville, Ky., with the adjacent suburban district of Jefferson County in 1975.
        The plan created a busing pattern for almost 23,000 students, with black children riding from the inner city to the suburbs and white children riding from the suburbs to school in the inner city.
        When protests to the plan erupted into violence, Judge Gordon ordered armed guards to ride the buses, made it a Federal offense to damage any of the buses and banned demonstrators from using Citizen Band radio channels to organize protests. Judge Gordon drafted his plan after a Federal appeals court overturned his dismissal two years earlier of a lawsuit brought by civil rights groups. That suit, against the Jefferson County school district, had sought to institute an integration plan.
        A graduate of the University of Kentucky, Judge Gordon began practicing law in 1941 in Madisonville. From 1956 to 1965, he served with the Kentucky Public Service Commission. He was appointed to the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, became chief district judge in 1968, assumed senior-judge status with a limited caseload in 1976 and retired in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, Iola, a daughter, Marianna Dyson, of Alexandria, Va.; two sons, Maurice and James, both of Owensboro, Ky., and five grandchildren.
      