
       Former Gov. Ed Herschler, a Democrat who was elected for a record three terms, died of cancer Monday at Laramie County Memorial Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Cheyenne.
        Former Gov. Ed Herschler, a Democrat who was elected for a record three terms, died of cancer Monday at Laramie County Memorial Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Cheyenne.
        A public opinion poll in 1986, Mr. Herschler's last year in office, showed that he was the most popular politician in this staunchly Republican state.
        The Democrats had hoped to capitalize on his popularity by having him seek a fourth term in 1986 or challenge Senator Malcolm Wallop, a Republican, in 1988. But Mr. Herschler declined the offers, saying the party needed new blood.
        He entered state politics in 1961, winning a term in the state House of Representatives after eight years as a county prosecutor. In 1970, he lost the seat, but returned to gain a surprising victory for governor four years later.
        Growth of Mineral Industry
        Mr. Herschler's first term as governor coincided with the mineral industry's rapid growth in the state, especially strip mining, which was spurred by rising world prices for oil.
        He was credited with pushing through the Republican-controlled Legislature the creation of the Wyoming Community Development Authority, which provides low-income housing and low-interest loans for homes.
        In his second term, Mr. Herschler supported legislation establishing the framework for the state's water development program.
        In 1982 nearly half of the state's registered Republicans voted for him in the general election, helping him defeat a former Wyoming House Speaker, Warren Morton, and win his third term.
        But he was struggling with financial troubles. The 18,500-acre Yellowstone Ranch, of which he was a co-owner, failed and forced him to file for bankruptcy in September 1985, listing debts that totaled $5.9 million.
        He is survived by his wife, Casey; a daughter, Sue Hunt, and a son, Jim, both of Kemmerer, Wyo., and three grandchildren.
      