
       Jose Napoleon Duarte, the former President of El Salvador who oversaw a shaky experiment in centrist civilian government after nearly a century of military rule, died yesterday at his home in San Salvador, his doctor said. He was 64 years old and had been diagnosed in May 1988 as having advanced liver cancer.
        Jose Napoleon Duarte, the former President of El Salvador who oversaw a shaky experiment in centrist civilian government after nearly a century of military rule, died yesterday at his home in San Salvador, his doctor said. He was 64 years old and had been diagnosed in May 1988 as having advanced liver cancer.
        Mr. Duarte, who left office in June 1989 after a five-year term, played a central role in Salvadoran politics for a quarter-century. He was viewed by Republican and Democratic administrations in Washington as an advocate of democracy who could provide a bulwark against Communism in Central America. His Christian Democratic Government was therefore deemed worthy of vast amounts of American aid to counter a leftist insurgency and to try to address the country's harsh inequities.
        But his Government was widely criticized in later years as ineffective and plagued by corruption, and in March 1989, with Mr. Duarte constitutionally barred from seeking another term, a rightist, Alfredo Cristiani, was elected to succeed him.
        Mr. Cristiani, who was in Taiwan yesterday, sent condolences to Mr. Duarte's family, Salvadoran radio reports said.
        In Washington, the White House issued a statement saying, ''President Duarte was the father of Salvadoran democracy, a dedicated servant to the people of El Salvador and a firm friend of the United States.'' The Administration said Vice President Dan Quayle would attend the funeral.
        Mr. Duarte showed physical resilience in his last months in office after cancer surgery in Washington in June 1988. Medical experts said he was not expected to survive to the end of his term, but he continued to carry out many functions of office and had a role in Central American peace initiatives.
        Mr. Cristiani's decisive victory over the Christian Democratic candidate, Fidel Chavez Mena, led to concern that the post-Duarte era would be one of extremism and polarization, and to questions in Washington about whether El Salvador should continue to receive high levels of American aid. Mr. Cristiani's party, the Nationalist Republican Alliance, or Arena, has often been tied to the rightist death squads that have killed tens of thousands of Salvadorans.
        The Middle Ground
        Some admirers of Mr. Duarte saw the voters' preference for Arena as an illustration of how Mr. Duarte was overwhelmed by the divisions and violence in Salvadoran society.
        A well-to-do civil engineer, Mr. Duarte helped to found the Christian Democratic Party in the 1960's, becoming its first secretary general, and three times was elected Mayor of San Salvador, the capital. In the 1960's and 1970's he seemed to personify the hope that a middle ground could be found in easing the nation's perennial strife.
        But in 1972 Mr. Duarte was denied victory in a presidential election widely viewed as fraudulent, and when he then gave support to an unsuccessful coup attempt by liberal military officers, he was forced into seven years of exile.
        After his return, he joined a ruling civilian-military junta in 1980 and was appointed President later that year, serving until 1982. Mr. Duarte regained the presidency in an election in 1984 after two years out of Government.
        Even with Mr. Duarte's election, the military was widely viewed as the country's most powerful institution, through which wealthy Salvadoran families traditionally wielded oligarchic power.
        A Focus of Discontent
        As President, the sad-faced, stocky Mr. Duarte became the focus of discontent among ordinary Salvadorans, who accused him and his political allies of failing to run the country well.
        Efforts to defeat the guerrillas militarily and to negotiate peace with them failed under President Duarte. The decade-old war remains at a stalemate, with more than 70,000 people dead, one in four Salvadorans displaced and the guerrillas in control of perhaps a third of the country.
        The guerrillas' degree of success was achieved despite the fact that Salvadoran governments had received more than $4 billion in United States aid since 1981, much of it for the armed forces.
        But while his efforts failed to resolve some of the most pressing social and economic problems of the country, they represented, after nearly a century of dictatorship, a step toward democracy in a profoundly undemocratic society.
        Robert E. White, United States Ambassador to El Salvador during the Carter Administration, said Mr. Duarte stood ''for reform, for negotiation, and for an end to the savagery of the armed forces.''
        Mr. Duarte's Government was often cited by the Reagan Administration as a prime instance of the spread of democracy in Latin America. The Bush Administration sought to sustain bipartisan support on Capitol Hill for large-scale United States aid to the new rightist Government.
        Family and Early Life
        Jose Napoleon Duarte Fuentes was born on Nov. 23, 1925, in San Salvador to Amelia Fuentes de Duarte and Jose Jesus Duarte.
        Mr. Duarte's beginnings have been described by himself and others as very simple, but in his memoirs, ''Duarte: My Story'' (G. P. Putnam, 1986), he wrote that his father came to be the owner of a fashionable tailor shop in San Salvador and was president of the Salvadoran Workers Society, a craftsmen's group.
        President Duarte also wrote that his father declined the post of Labor Minister in 1931 but then took ''charge of the production of army uniforms'' for a time. Later the tailor shop went bankrupt, the son reported, and the father ''began baking and selling candy'' and went on to win ''a modest fortune in the national lottery.''
        The younger Duarte attended the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind., before beginning his career as a civil engineer in San Salvador.
        He was drawn into politics in 1960 by a group that sought a middle ground between Communism and military totalitarianism. It was then that he helped found his party.
        In 1972, he was one of four candidates in the presidential election and by all accounts was robbed of a victory.
        Partial election returns indicated that he was ahead when the Government forbade additional radio reports about the outcome of the balloting. The following day, Col. Arturo Molina, the candidate of the governing National Conciliation Party, was declared the winner over Mr. Duarte by 22,000 votes.
        From Exile to a Junta
        Not long afterward, on March 25, 1972, liberal military men mounted an unsuccessful revolt to which Mr. Duarte, speaking on the radio, lent his support. He was later arrested and beaten by plainclothes policemen before being released into exile. He settled in Caracas.
        While in exile in 1977, Mr. Duarte later recalled in his memoirs, he visited Washington hoping to generate backing for the cause of democracy in his country. But he was given a cool reception. Only one Congressman, Thomas R. Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, was willing to meet him.
        ''My welcome to the United States has fluctuated in direct ratio to my political fortunes,'' Mr. Duarte wrote wryly in the memoirs.
        After seven years in Venezuela - he took up painting there - he returned to El Salvador after a coup in late 1979, in which dissident military officers ousted the military strongman, Gen. Carlos Humberto Romero.  At the invitation of the army, Mr. Duarte led a civilian-military junta, serving as President from 1980 to 1982. While in office, he denounced violations of human rights and spoke in favor of reconciliation with the insurgents. He also helped to undertake a controversial agrarian redistribution program, which fell short of its goals.
        After the killing of four American churchwomen outside San Salvador in December 1980, he came under strong international pressure to bring the killers to account and to push El Salvador's largely dormant judicial system to respond.
        ''Americans find it hard to believe that our legal system is so different from theirs,'' he said in his memoirs, ''or that I had so little influence with the courts.''
        ''All the obstacles that had to be overcome illustrated how our justice system was the result of a corrupt society, a social breakdown, a loss of human values,'' he said.
        Five men who were Salvadoran National Guardsmen at the time of the slayings eventually went on trial for them, but not until May 1984. They were convicted of aggravated homicide and sentenced to 30-year prison terms.
        A Taint and a Victory
        Mr. Duarte's decision to join the junta had complex consequences. It led to his becoming President, but it also linked him, in the estimation of many, with the brutal aspects of the junta, notably the killing of thousands of Salvadoran civilians by the military and death squads.
        In the months before the 1984 elections, critics in his party contended, as he wrote in his memoirs, ''that my participation in the junta tainted me, that I was associated in people's minds with the violence that took 40,000 lives.''
        Still, Mr. Duarte proved widely popular; he received 54 percent of the votes in a runoff election. He asserted that peace would be restored, and assured the skeptical populace that even if he could not do it, the United States would do so swiftly, with its resourcefulness, its weaponry, its money. His admirers in those days saw him as high-minded and tenacious, although critics viewed him as a long-winded egomaniac.
        In 1985, Mr. Duarte's Government had the guerrillas on the run, but it failed to introduce effective economic and social measures, just as land-reform measures earlier in the 1980's had proved ineffective, and the insurgency flourished anew, with rebels re-establishing a military and political presence in the capital.
        Critics contended that as President, Mr. Duarte was simply not up to the challenges at hand in El Salvador, and they argued that the most dramatic example of this inadequacy was his reaction to the kidnapping of his daughter Ines Duarte Duran by rebels in 1985.
        As part of a deal to obtain her freedom, he forced army commanders to set free more than 100 imprisoned rebels. She was released after being held captive for 44 days, but the army complained that the swap was a surrender to the rebels.
        Mr. Duarte seemed deeply shaken by the episode, and some critics said it had a paralyzing effect on him.
        Mr. Duarte is survived by his wife, Maria Ines Duran, and six children. Their son Alejandro was Mayor of San Salvador until he was defeated in the March 1988 elections.
      