
       Robert Karl Heimann, a retired chief executive of American Brands, died on Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Riverside, Conn.
        Robert Karl Heimann, a retired chief executive of American Brands, died on Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Riverside, Conn.
        A 1948 graduate of New York University with a Ph.D. in sociology, Mr. Heimann served as chairman and chief executive of American Brands from 1977 until his retirement in 1980. He had joined the company in 1954, when it was the American Tobacco Company.
        He was assistant to the president from 1961 to 1964 and produced studies that tried to show a correlation between the stress of urban living and lung cancer. He was named vice president for marketing and public relations in 1964, a year in which American Tobacco ceased its sponsorship of sports events on radio and television.
        ''As a result of the smoking-health controversy, we want to avoid any appearance of appealing to young people,'' he said in an interview at the time.
        Held Top Posts at Company
        He was named executive vice president in 1966, and in 1969, when American Tobacco changed its name to American Brands, he was named president and chief operating officer. In 1973 he became chairman, as well as president, and four years later assumed the title of chief executive officer.
        Before joining the tobacco industry, Mr. Heimann was a securities analyst and in the publishing business. He was managing editor and executive editor at Forbes magazine from 1949 to 1953. Before that he was an editor at Nation's Heritage.
        As head of the nation's second largest cigarette manufacturer, Mr. Heimann led the company into acquiring Gallagher Ltd., now the largest tobacco company in Britain, and diversified into such fields as foods, alcoholic beverages and fruit juices. He also wrote several books on tobacco and was a member of the New York Society of Securities Analysts.
        In World War II he was a captain in the Army Engineers.
        He is survived by a daughter, Karla Brandt of Micanopy, Fla.; a son, Mark, of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Mary Jane Heymann of Flushing, Queens.
      