
       Jack Newcombe, a novelist, a journalist and the author of books about sports figures, died Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital. He was 66 years old.
        Jack Newcombe, a novelist, a journalist and the author of books about sports figures, died Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital. He was 66 years old.
        His son Scott said Mr. Newcombe was hospitalized on Monday, several days after a fall in his Manhattan apartment in which he apparently struck his head. He did not regain consciousness after the fall.
        Born Eugene A. Newcombe in Burlington, Vt., on July 25, 1923, but known in print and to his friends as Jack, he attended the University of Missouri, Pomona College and the University of California at Berkeley. After his discharge from the Army, he enrolled at Brown University and graduated in 1948.
        Mr. Newcombe worked at The Providence Journal before joining Sport magazine in 1948. In 1954, he joined Life magazine and became its London bureau chief in 1968. His assignments included covering the Warsaw Pact-led invasion of Czechoslovakia and the civil war in Nigeria.
        A Turn to Books
        In 1970, Mr. Newcombe returned to the United States as Washington bureau chief for Life and remained until the magazine closed two years later.
        From 1974 to 1979, Mr. Newcombe was executive editor of the Book-of-the-Month Club.
        While at Life, Mr. Newcombe wrote ''The Fireside Book of Football.'' Later he edited ''A Christmas Treasury'' and ''Travels in the Americas'' and wrote a novel, ''In Search of Billy Cole.''
        Perhaps his best-known book was ''The Best of the Athletic Boys'' (1975), about Jim Thorpe and his Carlisle Indians football teammates, as well as Carlisle's coach, Glenn S. (Pop) Warner.
        Mr. Newcombe is survived by two sons, Scott, of Seattle and Tod, of South Hadley, Mass.; a daughter, Laura McAmis, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Elizabeth Newcombe Crabtree, of St. Louis; a half-sister, Geraldine Donohue, of Roselle, N.J., and four grandchildren.
        A service will be at 3:30 P.M. tomorrow at the Church Center for the United Nations, 777 United Nations Plaza, 44th Street and First Avenue.
      