
       Frank Ross, a film producer whose credits included ''Of Mice and Men'' and the first wide-screen movie, ''The Robe,'' died of complications after brain surgery on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85 years old. ''The Robe,'' a biblical epic that took Mr. Ross 10 years to bring to the screen, had its premiere in 1953 and was the first film produced by the
        Frank Ross, a film producer whose credits included ''Of Mice and Men'' and the first wide-screen movie, ''The Robe,'' died of complications after brain surgery on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85 years old. ''The Robe,'' a biblical epic that took Mr. Ross 10 years to bring to the screen, had its premiere in 1953 and was the first film produced by the Cinemascope process.
        Mr. Ross shared a special Academy Award with Mervyn LeRoy in 1945 for ''The House I Live In,'' a short feature that starred Frank Sinatra and promoted racial tolerance.
        A Princeton graduate who went into the construction business, Mr. Ross was persuaded in 1929 to try acting for the screen. He appeared in films with Clara Bow and Jean Arthur, the actress he later married.
        His interests eventually led him to the business side of film making, and he began producing at the Hal Roach studios. He was associate producer of ''Of Mice and Men'' in 1939.
        As an independent, Mr. Ross put Miss Arthur and later his second wife, Joan Caulfield, into features he produced. Miss Arthur starred in ''A Lady Takes a Chance'' and, in 1941, ''The Devil and Miss Jones.'' Miss Caulfield had major roles in ''The Lady Says No'' and ''The Rains of Ranchipur.'' Mr. Ross also starred Miss Caulfield in a short-lived television series, ''Sally.'' His brother, Richard C. Ross, was associated with him in his production companies for 15 years.
        Other Ross film productions include ''Kings Go Forth,'' ''Mister Moses,'' ''The Flame and the Arrow,'' ''Demetrius and the Gladiators'' and an adaptation of a biography of the Rev. Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, ''One Man's Way.''
        Mr. Ross is survived by a son and a brother.
      