
       Dennis McIntyre, a playwright whose work examined the ills of American society, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old.  Mr. McIntyre's latest play, ''Established Price,'' was staged at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven last month by Arvin Brown with a cast that included Jason Robards.
        Dennis McIntyre, a playwright whose work examined the ills of American society, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old.  Mr. McIntyre's latest play, ''Established Price,'' was staged at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven last month by Arvin Brown with a cast that included Jason Robards. Mel Gussow, in his review in The New York Times. said this realistic work about three corporate executives after the takeover of their sporting goods company is ''complete with pertinent commentary about big-business power plays, board room intrigue and the colorful jargon of the trade.'' The review called Mr. McIntyre ''one of our most acute theatrical observers'' of contemporary life.
        ''National Anthems,'' Mr. McIntyre's drama about a well-to-do young couple whose acquisitive life style is assailed by their working-class neighbor, was produced last year at the Long Wharf. In his review in The Times, Mr. Gussow praised the playwright's ''visceral sense of reality.''
        Mr. McIntyre's other plays produced in New York were ''Children in the Rain'' (1970), about three friends who seek refuge from the weather in an empty theater; ''Modigliani'' (1979), which depicted three days in the lives of three impoverished artists in Paris; and ''Split Second'' (1984), the story of a black police officer and the trauma he endures after fatally shooting a white car thief.
        Mr. Brown of the Long Wharf said Mr. McIntyre's ''great strength as a writer was that he was deeply concerned about the contemporary American condition and how it reflected itself in business relationships, in personal relationships outside of work and how the American dream had been diluted over the years.''
        Mr. McIntyre taught playwriting at the University of Michigan, where a playwriting award has been established in his honor.
        Mr. McIntyre's companion of 25 years was Karen Riedel. He is survived by his mother, Kathleen McIntyre, of Detroit, and a brother, John, of Houston.
      