
       William T. Conklin, a retired Republican State Senator from Brooklyn, died yesterday at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn after a brief illness. He was 81 years old and lived in the Bay Ridge section.
        William T. Conklin, a retired Republican State Senator from Brooklyn, died yesterday at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn after a brief illness. He was 81 years old and lived in the Bay Ridge section.
        Mr. Conklin, who spent 22 years as a member of the Senate, retired in 1978 at the age of 70 after years of strenuous efforts to retain his seat in a predominantly Democratic district.
        The Senator, a native of Brooklyn, was the deputy leader for the Republican majority in the State Senate for many years.
        His career grew out of his work as a lobbyist for the mentally retarded after his only son, Billy, was born retarded. Mr. Conklin and his wife, the former Jessie Hanrahan, helped organize the Guild for Exceptional Children in Bay Ridge, and he became a legislative expert in this field. He was a director of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children, director of the Bay Ridge Nursery and director of Victory Memorial Hospital.
        Jobs as Messengers
        Despite his Democratic constituency, he was elected to the State Senate on his second effort and, while as foxy and partisan as any politician on some issues, he was particularly intense about mental retardation. He made sure that the Legislature had more than 40 retarded people working in Albany as messengers and clerks, and he pushed successfully for legislation requiring birth tests for phenylketonuria, or PKU, the brain-damaging genetic disorder.
        Billy Conklin was one of the first retarded people in New York City who systematically was taught to ride the subways and buses alone - a special virtue of the city that is widely used now by the moderately retarded. At night, when there were fewer people on the street to watch, his father taught him to ride a bicycle in the dark, and his mother arranged for him to work as a messenger in an eyeglass shop on Nassau Street in Manhattan and stayed with him for a week while he memorized his duties and the neighborhood.
        Billy is now 51 years old and lives with his family in Bay Ridge. Mrs. Conklin died in 1980.  In addition to his son, Mr. Conklin is survived by two daughters, Joyce Doll of Brooklyn and Patricia Davis of Rochester; two brothers, Joseph, of Lakewood, N.J., and Warren, of Tampa, Fla.; a sister, Marion Johnson of Brooklyn; 8 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      