
       Tony Conigliaro, the former Boston Red Sox outfielder who had struggled to overcome a beaning that interrupted his career, died of kidney failure Saturday afternoon. He was 45 years old.
        Tony Conigliaro, the former Boston Red Sox outfielder who had struggled to overcome a beaning that interrupted his career, died of kidney failure Saturday afternoon. He was 45 years old.
        Vinnie Martelli, Mr. Conigliaro's uncle, said he died at Salem Hospital after having been in poor health since suffering a heart attack in 1982.
        Theresa Conigliaro, Mr. Conigliaro's mother, said today that after her son's heart attack, he required constant care from nurses. He stayed either with his brother Billy, also a former major league outfielder, or with her. She said he would watch television with the family and sometimes laugh, but was not fully aware of his surroundings.
        Known as Tony C, he led the American League with 32 homers in 1965, his second season. At age 20, he was the youngest major league player ever to win a home-run crown. Two years later, he became the youngest major leaguer to hit 100 career home runs.
        Pitch Fractured Cheekbone
        In an August 1967 game with the California Angels, a pitch by Jack Hamilton hit him on the left side of the face, leaving him with a fractured cheekbone, a dislocated jaw and blurred vision.
        The crowd fell silent at the sound of the pitch hitting Mr. Conigliaro's face, said Dick Dew, who was a sportswriter covering the game.
        ''It stopped everybody in the place because of the sound of it,'' Mr. Dew said. ''It was unmistakable. You knew the injury was serious the moment you heard it.''
        Mr. Conigliaro sat out the rest of the 1967 season and all of 1968 with vision problems. Eventually, his vision sharpened, and the 1969 season found him back with the Red Sox in his familiar right-field position.
        In 1970, he had his best season with 36 homers and 116 runs batted in.
        Hit 166 Career Homers
        After that year, however, he was traded to the Angels. After half a season, he retired, citing recurring vision problems. In 1975, Mr. Conigliaro again attempted a comeback with Boston, but it ended after 21 games.
        He hit 166 homers in his major league career.
        Mr. Conigliaro later became a sportscaster, worked in a sports agent's firm and ran a health-food store.
      