
       Vladimir V. Shcherbitsky, a hard-line former member of the Soviet Communist Party Politburo and chief of the Ukrainian Communist Party for 17 years, died on Friday after a long illness, a day before his 72d birthday, the official press agency Tass reported today.
        Vladimir V. Shcherbitsky, a hard-line former member of the Soviet Communist Party Politburo and chief of the Ukrainian Communist Party for 17 years, died on Friday after a long illness, a day before his 72d birthday, the official press agency Tass reported today.
        The party chief was retired from the ruling Politburo last September in a shake-up orchestrated by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. He was relieved of his Ukraine post a week later.
        Mr. Shcherbitsky was one of the last Politburo members from the days of President Leonid I. Brezhnev, who died in 1982 after 18 years in power. Before his removal from party positions, advocates of change in the Ukraine blamed him and his followers for slowing down economic and political change in the nation's breadbasket and industrial heartland, where more than 50 million people live.
        Faulted in Chernobyl Accident
        Some Ukrainians blamed him for covering up the radiation damage from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident in April 1986. He was also faulted for restraining the local press and for the arrests and harassment of dissidents.
        Mr. Shcherbitsky was born in the city of Verkhnedneprovsk in the Ukraine. After service in the Soviet Army from 1941 to 1946, he began his climb in the Communist Party hierarchy by being elected second secretary of the Dneprodzerzhinsk City Committee in 1948.
        In 1961, he was appointed chairman of the the Ukraine's Cabinet and became a member of the Communist Party Central Committee.
        He was appointed a member of the Politburo under Mr. Brezhnev in 1971.
        The Tass obituary was signed by Mr. Gorbachev and other members of the Politburo, including Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, Vitaly Vorotnikov, Yegor K. Ligachev, Vadim Medvedev and Aleksandr N. Yakovlev.
      