
       Renee Reichmann, the mother of three brothers who quietly built Canada's largest real-estate concern, Olympia & York Developments Ltd., died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. She was 91 years old and lived in Toronto.
        Renee Reichmann, the mother of three brothers who quietly built Canada's largest real-estate concern, Olympia & York Developments Ltd., died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. She was 91 years old and lived in Toronto.
        Mrs. Reichmann arrived in Canada in the mid-1950's with her husband, Samuel, and their sons, Albert, Paul and Ralph. The family originated in Hungary, where she was born and where her husband distributed and exported eggs. Concerned about a possible Soviet invasion of Hungary in the 1920's, the strictly Orthodox Jewish family immigrated to Austria.
        By the time Hitler came to power in Germany in 1933, Samuel Reichmann had bought a failing glass factory and made it profitable. Realizing that life in Austria would soon become unsafe, he moved the family to Tangier, Morocco, where he established a major banking house.
        Family Moves to Canada
        In the 1950's, the family again moved, this time to Canada. Now joined in business by his sons, Samuel Reichmann founded Olympia & York, for which Mrs. Reichmann served as a director. The business is still family owned and is a major power in North American real estate.
        The Reichmanns bought eight office skyscrapers in Manhattan, including 2 Broadway, 55 Water Street and 245 Park Avenue, and today Olympia & York ranks as the largest private owner of commercial property in the city.
        They also own 38 percent of the Campeau Corporation, the troubled Canadian conglomerate that owns Bloomingdale's, Abraham & Straus and other American retail chains. The Reichmanns are considered to be among the world's 10 wealthiest families, with business assets estimated at more than $7 billion.
        Samuel Reichmann died in 1975. Mrs. Reichmann is survived by five sons, Albert, Paul and Ralph, all of Toronto; Edward of Jerusalem, and Lewis of Manhattan.
      