
       David Goldfarb, the Soviet Jewish geneticist who in 1986 won a seven-year battle to emigrate, died of heart failure Saturday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        David Goldfarb, the Soviet Jewish geneticist who in 1986 won a seven-year battle to emigrate, died of heart failure Saturday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Goldfarb, who was afflicted with diabetes and heart disease before he left the Soviet Union, had been in Bethesda, Md., since December as a visiting scholar at the National Institutes of Health.
        Dr. Goldfarb, a prominent scientist in the Soviet Union, gained wide attention as a ''refusenik,'' one of many Soviet Jews who had been denied permission to leave the country. He was granted permission to leave Moscow on Oct. 17, 1986, through the intercession of Armand Hammer, chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation and a businessman who had a long history of doing business with the Soviet Union.
        In 1978 Dr. Goldfarb resigned as head of the laboratory of molecular genetics of bacteria operated by the Soviet Academy of Sciences. He had done pioneering work in genetics after the downfall of Tofrim D. Lysenko, the agronomist whose school of scientists under Stalin disputed accepted theories of heredity and forced mainstream geneticists into the background.
        Dr. Goldfarb was born in Polonnoe in the Ukraine and was a graduate of the state medical school in Moscow. In World War II, he served as an Army medical officer and lost his left leg at Stalingrad. Sought to Join Son in U.S.  After the war, he did medical research, emerging after the overthrow of the Lysenko school and assuming increasingly important scientific posts. His son Alex, a microbiologist, emigrated in 1975 and came to the United States, where he is now an assistant professor at Columbia University.
        In the late 1970's, Dr. Goldfarb and his wife, Cecelia, sought to join Alex in this country but were denied permission to leave. As their fight to emigrate evolved into an international human rights case, the Goldfarbs became friendly with Nicholas Daniloff, a correspondent of U.S. News & World Report based in Moscow.
        Mr. Daniloff was detained by Soviet authorities on Aug. 30, 1986, as he was preparing to end his assignment and return to the United States. He was charged with spying for the Central Intelligence Agency but was released two weeks later and allowed to leave the Soviet Union in exchange for a Soviet employee of the United Nations held by the United States on spying charges.
        Mr. Daniloff said that in 1984 the K.G.B., the Soviet state security agency, had asked Dr. Goldfarb to invite him to the Goldfarb home in a scheme to embarrass the journalist. Dr. Goldfarb refused to cooperate, further complicating his effort to emigrate.
        ''He was one of the most honest and courageous persons I have ever known,'' Mr. Daniloff said yesterday. ''When I was being detained, he offered to leave his sickbed and testify in my behalf. That did not sit well with the Soviet authorities.''
        High-Level Approval
        By the time of Mr. Daniloff's release, Dr. Goldfarb's name had risen to the top of a United States priority list of Soviet citizens being prevented from leaving the country.
        Alex Goldfarb had asked Dr. Hammer to intervene with the Soviets. Dr. Hammer, on a periodic trip to Moscow in October of that year, raised Dr. Goldfarb's case with Anatoly F. Dobrynin, the former Soviet Ambassador to Washington.
        Mr. Dobrynin initially said Dr. Goldfarb's emigration would be impossible, Dr. Hammer said. But the next day the American received word that he could take Dr. and Mrs. Goldfarb with him when he left Oct. 16. Dr. Hammer said he believed Mikhail S. Gorbachev had approved the release.
        Dr. Goldfarb, who had been in a hospital for some time, was strapped to a reclining chair when he and Mrs. Goldfarb boarded Dr. Hammer's private jet. Left behind were their daughter, Olga, and her two daughters. The family said yesterday that Olga was now free to leave the Soviet Union and is expected to emigrate with her daughters in May.
        Alex Goldfarb said yesterday that knowing Olga would soon be on her way to this country ''fulfilled our father's last wish.''
        In addition to his wife, son and daughter, Dr. Goldfarb is survived by four grandchildren.
      