
       William J. McDonald, a lawyer and former senior vice president of the Union Pacific Corporation who played a major role in the formation of Conrail, died of cancer yesterday at Greenwich, Conn., Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Rye.
        William J. McDonald, a lawyer and former senior vice president of the Union Pacific Corporation who played a major role in the formation of Conrail, died of cancer yesterday at Greenwich, Conn., Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Rye.
        Mr. McDonald served from 1969 to 1989 as chief legal officer of the Union Pacific Corporation, which is the parent company of the Union Pacific Railroad.
        In his tenure, he helped transform Union Pacific from a railroad to a diversified holding company with interests in oil and gas, mining, trucking, real estate and hazardous waste management. He also played a significant role in Union Pacific's acquisitions of the Western Pacific Railroad and the Missouri Pacific Railroad in 1982.
        In the mid-1970's, Mr. McDonald participated in the drafting of legislation that reshaped the Penn Central Railroad and other bankrupt northeastern railroads into the Consolidated Rail Corporation, or Conrail. He retired in 1989.
        Corporate Finance Lawyer
        Before joining Union Pacific, Mr. McDonald was a partner in the New York City law firm Clark, Carr & Ellis. He specialized in corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions.
        Mr. McDonald was born in New York City, attended LaSalle Academy and graduated from College of the Holy Cross. He received his law degree from Georgetown University, where he served as associate editor-in-chief of the law review.
        Mr. McDonald was chairman of the American Bar Association's Section on Public Utility Law in 1980 and 1981. He was a trustee at Mount Saint Vincent-on-Hudson College in Riverdale and at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry. He was a member of the President's Council at Holy Cross, the Board of Regents at Georgetown University, the Knights of Malta and the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre. He was also active in the Archdiocese of New York.
        He is survived by his wife, Diane; three sons, Brian of Manhattan, Timothy of Washington, and Chris of Rye; a daughter, Megan of Rye, and a grandson.
        A viewing will be held at the McGrath Funeral Home in Bronxville on Wednesday from 2 P.M. to 4 P.M. and from 7 P.M. to 9 P.M. A Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated at Resurrection Church in Rye on Thursday at 10 A.M.
      