
       Curtiss E. Frank, a lawyer who was a mayor of Yonkers, a publishing executive and the president of Dun & Bradstreet, died of Alzheimer's disease on Saturday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 85 years old.  Mr. Frank was elected to the City Council of Yonkers in 1942, and became mayor in 1944. He resigned in 1949.
        Curtiss E. Frank, a lawyer who was a mayor of Yonkers, a publishing executive and the president of Dun & Bradstreet, died of Alzheimer's disease on Saturday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 85 years old.  Mr. Frank was elected to the City Council of Yonkers in 1942, and became mayor in 1944. He resigned in 1949. As mayor, he began investigations of whether public officials had taken payoffs to overlook illegal gambling and from people doing business with the city. Control of the council see-sawed between different political parties during his years in office, and the city went through eight city managers during his tenure.
        Mr. Frank also created a special committee to investigate the sources of large bank deposits and stock purchases made by the vice-mayor, a relatively low-paid union official. The vice-mayor resigned before the committee's work was finished.
        Helped Settle Strike
        In 1949, Mr. Frank helped settle an eight-day strike by 500 Yonkers municipal workers after sanitation and water department employees were fired under a test of a new state labor law and then reinstated when the city faced a public health disaster.
        Mr. Frank was born in East Orange, N.J., and graduated from Colgate University. After graduating from Columbia Law School in 1928, he joined the firm of Hughes, Hubbard & Ewing. He remained with the firm until 1949, except for two years as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York under Thomas E. Dewey.
        In 1949, Mr. Frank resigned as Yonkers's mayor and stopped practicing law to become vice president of Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation, a publishing and advertising company based in New York. He became its chairman in 1956. When Donnelley merged with the credit-reporting organization Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. in 1961, he became president and later the chairman of the parent company.He retired in 1969.
        In 1970, he became president of the Council for Financial Aid to Education. From 1977 to 1980, he was president of the National Executive Service Corps.
        Mr. Frank is survived by a daughter, Fairfield DuBois of Winnetka, Ill.; a son, Curtiss Frank Jr. of Truchas, N.M.; two brothers, Augustus Frank of Plymouth, N.H., and Douglas Frank of Hope, Idaho; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      