
       Warren D. Manshel, an investment banker and publisher who was Ambassador to Denmark under President Carter, died of heart failure on Sunday at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., where he was being treated for cancer. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Warren D. Manshel, an investment banker and publisher who was Ambassador to Denmark under President Carter, died of heart failure on Sunday at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., where he was being treated for cancer. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Manshel was managing partner and director of institutional research for Coleman & Company, a Manhattan brokerage firm with which he was associated from 1955 to 1977. In 1977 he was a co-founder of the European Options Exchange in Amsterdam.
        Mr. Manshel had a strong interest in politics and foreign affairs. In 1965 he started The Public Interest magazine, and remained its editor until his death. In 1970 he founded the magazine Foreign Policy, which he edited until the Carnegie Foundation bought it in 1978.
        Education and War Service
        A native of Berlin, Mr. Manshel received bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Harvard University. He served with the Army in World War II. After the war he was charged with licensing German newspapers and creating a new German news agency.
        In 1949 he became a teaching fellow at Harvard, which awarded him the Chase Prize in International Relations in 1952.
        In 1954 and 1955 he was deputy director and chief administrative officer of the Council for Cultural Freedom, an anti-Communist organization of American and European intellectuals; later it was disclosed that the organization was supported by the Central Intelligence Agency.
        Mr. Manshel was Ambassador to Denmark from 1978 to 1981.
        His wife, the former Anita Coleman, died in 1986. He is survived by a daughter, Liane, and a son, Michael, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Ernest, of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      