
       Carroll Vincent Newsom, the president of New York University from 1956 to 1961 and a leader in educational television, died Saturday at his home in Dublin, Ohio. He was 85 years old.
        Carroll Vincent Newsom, the president of New York University from 1956 to 1961 and a leader in educational television, died Saturday at his home in Dublin, Ohio. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Newsom was born in Buckley, Ill., and was known as a mathematics prodigy. He wore knickers until he took his first teaching job at Trinity University in San Antonio, Tex. He was 14 at the time and still a student in high school.
        Later he received a bachelor's degree from the College of Emporia in Kansas and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. He taught for 11 years at the University of New Mexico, the University of Michigan, Kansas State Teachers College and the University of Chicago.
        Earlier he was editor of the American Mathematical Monthly, a co-founder of the Association for Symbolic Logic and a member of many professional and honorary societies.
        A Voice for Academic Freedom
        Dr. Newsom also served as associate commissioner for higher education for New York State for five years and as assistant commissioner of two years. In 1953, when Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and his anti-Communist crusade held sway, Dr. Newsom spoke out against fear and coercion on college campuses that, he said, were inhibiting academic freedom.
        ''On many campuses, the professors are completely leaving out controversial issues,'' he said in a speech to the College Public Relations Association in Albany. ''Not only are questions about Russia omitted, but any unorthodox or unpopular position is sidetracked. The professors stay right within the conservative tradition. They are afraid the Communist label will be pinned upon them.''
        Dr. Newsom joined N.Y.U. as an executive vice president in 1955 and was appointed president a year later, when his predecessor, Dr. Henry T. Heald, became president of the Ford Foundation. His tenure as president of N.Y.U. was considered one of consolidating and building on the many changes brought about by Dr. Heald.
        Pioneer in Educational TV
        Dr. Newsom was also considered a pioneer in educational television. He edited one of the first books on the subject, ''A Television Policy for Education,'' for the American Council on Education. He was also a member of the Joint Committee on Educational Television and chairman of the board of the Metropolitan Educational Television Association.
        He resigned from N.Y.U. in 1961, taking a position as a senior vice president with the publishing house of Prentice-Hall Inc. and later becoming president. He also worked as a vice president for RCA before retiring in 1969 to his summer home on Candlewood Lake in New Fairfield, Conn. He moved to Mississippi in 1981 and to Ohio in 1987.
        Dr. Newsom is survived by a daughter, Jeanne N. Challener of St. Joseph, Mo.; two sons, Walter, of Starkville, Miss., and Gerald, of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Mardelle Johnson of Poplar Grove, Ill., seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        His wife, Frances J. Newsom, died last year at the age of 87.
        A funeral service will be held tomorrow at the W. A. Tomlinson Funeral Home in Danbury, Conn. Burial will at the Gerow Cemetery in New Fairfield.
      