
       William Reed Huntington, an architect and a former Quaker representative to the United Nations and director of the Quaker program there, died of lung cancer on Sunday at his home in Norwich, Vt. He was 83 years old.
        William Reed Huntington, an architect and a former Quaker representative to the United Nations and director of the Quaker program there, died of lung cancer on Sunday at his home in Norwich, Vt. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Huntington was active for years in the American Friends Service Committee, more commonly known as the Quakers. He was a crew member of the Golden Rule, a small boat that in 1958 sailed into the South Pacific to protest atomic testing there by the United States.
        Mr. Huntington, who was born in New York City, was the grandson of the Rev. William Reed Huntington, a longtime rector of Grace Episcopal Church. Mr. Huntington graduated from St. Mark's School in Southborough, Mass., and Harvard College, and received a master's degree in architecture from the University of Virginia. He practiced architecture in St. James, L.I., and Vermont, where he retired in 1982.
        In World War II Mr. Huntington was co-director of a camp for conscientious objectors at Big Flats, N.Y. After the war he was co-commissioner of relief operations in Europe for the American Friends Service Committee.
        From 1961 to 1963 he was director of refugee assistance operations in Tunisia and Algeria in connection with the French-Algerian war. He later served as the Quaker representative to the United Nations and director of the United Nations Quaker program.
        He is survived his wife, Leonie; his brother, Msgr. Christopher Huntington, of Norwich; three daughters, Lydia Sparrow, of Annapolis, Md., Madge Cooper, of New York City, and Mary Silloway, of Rutland, Vt.; three stepchildren, Stephanie Lovell, of West Hartford, Conn., Andrew Lovell, of Washougal, Wash., and Katherine Lovell, of East Longmeadow, Mass.; 13 grandchildren, and three step-grandchildren.
        Burial will be 3:30 P.M. on Friday at St. James' Church in St. James. A memorial will be at 2:30 P.M. on March 3 at the Norwich Congregational Church in Norwich.
      