
       Michael Powell, a British film director, screenwriter and producer whose quirky and often disconcerting movies included ''The Red Shoes,'' ''The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp'' and ''Peeping Tom,'' died of prostate cancer on Monday at his home in Avening, Gloucestershire, England. He was 84 years old.
        Michael Powell, a British film director, screenwriter and producer whose quirky and often disconcerting movies included ''The Red Shoes,'' ''The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp'' and ''Peeping Tom,'' died of prostate cancer on Monday at his home in Avening, Gloucestershire, England. He was 84 years old.
        In a career that spanned half a century, Mr. Powell made critically acclaimed and popular films noted for their sense of magic, their memorable characters and their distinctive juxtapositions of sound and image. Many of his best-known and most imaginative movies were made during a two-decade collaboration with the Hungarian-born screenwriter Emeric Pressburger, who died in 1988.
        ''Of his generation, he was unquestionably the most innovative and most creatively brilliant film maker this country ever boasted,'' the British director Sir Richard Attenborough told The Associated Press.
        Worked With Hitchcock
        Mr. Powell was born in Bekesbourne, Kent, in 1905, and as a teen-ager became entranced by the new medium of film. In his early 20's he worked with the Irish silent-film director Rex Ingram and as a still photographer for Alfred Hitchcock. Mr. Powell was hired in 1930 by Jerome Jackson, an American producer of low-budget movies, and in the next six years he wrote or directed some two dozen inexpensive comedies and thrillers. His first effort at directing was ''Two Crowded Hours'' (1931).
        Mr. Powell first made his mark with ''The Edge of the World,'' a mystical tale of a Scottish village. It won the New York Film Critics Award for best foreign film of 1937. His success nearly lured him to Hollywood, but Alexander Korda, a Hungarian-born British producer, hired him to direct a fast-paced caper called ''The Spy in Black'' and the Academy Award-winning fantasy ''The Thief of Baghdad.''
        The ''Spy in Black'' marked the beginning of Mr. Powell's long collaboration with Mr. Pressburger. After making two more commercially successful films together - ''Contraband'' and ''Forty-Ninth Parallel'' - in 1942 they formed a production company called the Archers. Over the next 15 years, the company made 14 films, using the credit, ''written, produced and directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger.''
        The Pattern of Collaboration
        As Mr. Powell once told an interviewer, ''What we always did was that he would write the script and then I would rewrite it completely in my version, sometimes with very little change and sometimes with a very great deal of change.''
        Although Mr. Powell was always deeply patriotic and the partners made several films extolling Allied efforts in World War II, the first Archers film -''The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp'' - was the target of Prime Minister Winston Churchill's wrath because it ridiculed Britain's conservative military establishment. Their other wartime movies, which were supported by the British Ministry of Information, included ''One of Our Aircraft is Missing,'' ''The Silver Fleet,'' ''A Canterbury Tale'' and ''I Know Where I'm Going.''
        Their classic postwar movies included ''A Matter of Life and Death'' (''Stairway to Heaven'' in the United States), a fantasy about a pilot who defies death; ''The Black Narcissus,'' an erotic tale about Anglican nuns in the Himalayas; ''The Small Back Room,'' about an embittered bomb-disposal expert, and ''Tales of Hoffmann,'' a larger-than-life adaptation of Offenbach's opera. Undoubtedly the best-loved Archers film was ''The Red Shoes,'' a romantic, lyrically filmed tale of a ballerina, played by Moira Shearer, torn between love and art.
        In Television and Books
        After his partnership with Mr. Pressburger dissolved in 1957, one of Mr. Powell's first movies was ''Peeping Tom,'' a psychological portrait of a maker of pornographic films. In the 1960's, Mr. Powell directed only a handful of films, including ''Bluebeard's Castle,'' and worked sporadically for British and American television. Mr. Powell briefly resumed his collaboration with Mr. Pressburger in 1972 to direct a children's film called ''The Boy Who Turned Yellow.'' Mr. Powell's last film was ''Return to the Edge of the World,'' in 1979.
        Mr. Powell also directed several theater productions in the 1940's and 50's, including Hemingway's ''Fifth Column'' and Raymond Massey's ''Hanging Judge.'' He wrote a 1976 suspense novel called ''A Waiting Game,'' and his autobiography, ''A Life in Movies,'' was published in 1987. In addition, Mr. Powell lectured at several film schools and was made a fellow of the British Film Institute in 1983.
        Mr. Powell's first wife, Frances Reidy, died in 1983. The next year he married Thelma Schoonmaker, a film editor who won an Academy Award for Martin Scorsese's ''Raging Bull.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Powell is survived by two sons from his first marriage, Kevin, of Australia, and Columba, of England.
        The Movies Of 5 Decades
        Michael Powell directed, wrote or produced dozens of films between the 1930's and the 1970's. Here are some of his best-known works.
        The Edge of the World (1937)
        The Spy in Black (1939)
        The Thief of Bagdad (1940)
        Forty-Ninth Parallel (1941)
        The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp (1943)
        Black Narcissus (1947)
        The Red Shoes (1948)
        The Small Back Room (1949)
        Tales of Hoffmann (1951)
        Peeping Tom (1960)
        The Boy Who Turned Yellow (1972)
      