
       More than two dozen artists, writers, art critics, friends and former students paid tribute to Elaine de Kooning, the painter, art writer, teacher and wife of Willem de Kooning at a memorial service last night at Cooper Union in Manhattan. Mrs. de Kooning died of lung cancer on Feb. 1, 1989.
        More than two dozen artists, writers, art critics, friends and former students paid tribute to Elaine de Kooning, the painter, art writer, teacher and wife of Willem de Kooning at a memorial service last night at Cooper Union in Manhattan. Mrs. de Kooning died of lung cancer on Feb. 1, 1989.
        Among those who spoke at the more than two-and-a-half-hour service, which the editor Rose Slivka called ''the marathon memorial,'' were the poet John Ashbery, the gallery owner Leo Castelli, the artists Joop Sanders and Al Copley, the photographer Rudy Burckhardt and Mrs. de Kooning's brother Peter Fried. Many recalled not only Mrs. de Kooning's artistic agility and intelligence as a writer, but also her irrepressible humor, her capacity for friendship and generosity, and her fascination with language.
        Slides were shown of her paintings from 1947 to 1988, including realistic landscapes and portraits as well as colorful abstract works informed by Abstract Expressionism and, in later years, inspired by the paleolithic cave drawings in France and Spain. The memorial was held on what would have been the artist's 70th birthday.
        ''Art was her meaning, her solace, her exuberance,'' said the artist Herman Cherry.
        'Complete Absorption'
        Other artists spoke of Mrs. de Kooning's versatility, concentration and speed as a painter. ''She had an uncanny eye,'' said the artist Sherman Drexler. ''There was such complete absorption that enveloped her when she picked up a pen or brush.''
        The audience of about 300 also saw a quarter-century's photographs by Hans Namuth of Mrs. de Kooning in her studio in East Hampton, L.I., and with Mr. de Kooning, whom she married in 1943. Grace Hartigan, an artist, recalled that when Mrs. de Kooning was asked how it felt to live in her husband's shadow, she replied, ''I lived in his light.''
        Mrs. de Kooning - who taught at 15 colleges and universities, including Yale University, Carnegie-Mellon University, Cooper Union and Bard College - was also remembered for her enthusiasm as a teacher and her self-defined role as a ''fairy godmother'' to young artists. Barbara Schwartz, one of several former students who spoke, called her ''an ardent talent scout'' and said she is establishing a scholarship in Mrs. de Kooning's name at Bard.
        Joan Washburn, a gallery owner, read excerpts from several of the many reviews and monographs Mrs. de Kooning wrote about contemporary art, citing her ''ability to move with complete abandon from the sublime to the ridiculous.''
        Indeed, many spoke of Mrs. de Kooning's wit and remembered incidents like a baseball game she played in high heels and an invitation for coffee to someone who had mugged her. Others evoked her humor by quoting her often-disarming aphorisms, like: ''Take care of the luxuries; the necessities will take care of themselves.''
      