
       Josephine Blair Hughes, a super-saleswoman who sold high-fashion clothes to socially prominent women for four decades, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 80 years old and had been bedridden for several years.
        Josephine Blair Hughes, a super-saleswoman who sold high-fashion clothes to socially prominent women for four decades, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 80 years old and had been bedridden for several years.
        ''Jo Hughes was a dynamo, with the most fiercely loyal customers,'' said Lynn Manulis, president of Martha, where Miss Hughes spent the last seven years of her working life. ''Her girls, as she called them, wouldn't buy anything without her there to help and advise them.''
        During her career, Jo Hughes worked at Hattie Carnegie, de Pinna, Bergdorf Goodman and Martha, as well as running her own shop for a time in a townhouse on East 56th Street.
        Staged Fashion Shows
        At Hattie Carnegie in the 1940's, she headed a department called Jeune Fille for 10 years, staging formal fashion shows each season. She continued the tradition of fashion shows, usually as charity benefits, when she went to Bergdorf Goodman in 1966, attracting customers like Doris Duke, Mary Lou Whitney and Mary Wells Lawrence.
        ''All the important people came to her shows,'' recalled Andrew Goodman, the former owner of Bergdorf's. ''She had a volatile temper. She'd stop the show if someone was talking. But she was very good to her customers. If someone in Great Neck or somewhere had ordered a dress and needed it for a special party, she'd take a car and deliver it personally.''
        Accompanied by a Dog
        She was a familiar figure at designers' fashion shows, sitting in the front row with her Shih Tzu Tony on her lap. The dog went everywhere with her, friends recalled yesterday, even to restaurants like La Cote Basque and ''21,'' where he was checked in the coatroom.
        Miss Hughes, who was born in Dallas, retired from Bergdorf's in 1978, then went back to work at Martha's in the early 80's until her health failed.
        There are no survivors.
      