
       Charlotte M. Sitterly, an astrophysicist whose analysis of sunlight first showed that the element technitium exists in nature, died of heart failure on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 91. Dr. Sitterly had devoted much of her career to the study of the sun's spectrum, including wavelengths that could not penetrate the atmosphere and were therefore observed from rockets.
        Charlotte M. Sitterly, an astrophysicist whose analysis of sunlight first showed that the element technitium exists in nature, died of heart failure on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 91. Dr. Sitterly had devoted much of her career to the study of the sun's spectrum, including wavelengths that could not penetrate the atmosphere and were therefore observed from rockets.
        Her principal affiliations were with Princeton University, the National Bureau of Standards, the University of California at Berkeley and the Mount Wilson Observatory in California. She supervised compilation of the multivolume tables of atomic energy levels, as shown by optical spectra, that became a standard reference in laboratories around the world.
        She was born Charlotte Emma Moore in Ercildoun, Pa., and was educated at Swarthmore College, where she majored in mathematics and astronomy, graduating in 1920. At Princeton University she worked under Henry Norris Russell, whose classification of stars by brightness and spectral type became standard throughout the world.
        In 1925 she began studying the solar spectrum at the Mount Wilson Observatory. She obtained a doctorate in 1931 from the University of California at Berkeley, writing a thesis on the spectra of sunspots. She was appointed to the staff of the Princeton University Observatory. In 1937 she married Dr. Bancroft Walker Sitterly, whom she met there. He is now deceased.
        In that year Emilio Segre and his colleagues in Palermo, Italy, identified a substance produced by a particle accelerator at Berkeley as the element predicted to fill a tantalizing gap in the table of elements. From the Greek word for artificial they called it technitium. While all forms, or isotopes, of technitium decay radioactively, that one, technitium 99, lasts thousands of years, allowing the discoverers time to confirm its identity.
        Dr. Sitterly then found technitium in the spectrum of sunlight - the first indication that it exists in nature. It has now been found in the light from other stars and is one of the most common products of atom-splitting in nuclear reactors.
        In 1945 Dr. Sitterly moved to the National Bureau of Standards in the Department of Commerce to supervise preparation of the now widely used tables of atomic energy levels. In 1961 she was among the first six recipients of the newly created Federal Women's Award for outstanding Government service.
        She is survived by several nephews and nieces.
      