
       Dr. Marver H. Bernstein, a retired president of Brandeis University and a Jewish lay leader, and his wife, Sheva, were killed last Thursday in a fire at the Heliopolis Sheraton Hotel outside Cairo. He was 71 years old, and she was 69. They lived in Washington and Jerusalem.
        Dr. Marver H. Bernstein, a retired president of Brandeis University and a Jewish lay leader, and his wife, Sheva, were killed last Thursday in a fire at the Heliopolis Sheraton Hotel outside Cairo. He was 71 years old, and she was 69. They lived in Washington and Jerusalem.
        The State Department confirmed yesterday that they were among 17 people who died in the blaze that engulfed the 630-room hotel. Identification of victims had been delayed because hotel records were destroyed in the fire, forcing the authorities to turn to medical and dental records to establish identification beyond doubt. At least three victims remained unidentified yesterday, the authorities said.
        Dr. Bernstein taught for 25 years at Princeton University, where he was the first dean of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs from 1964 to 1969. He was the fourth president of Brandeis from 1972 to 1983 and, since then, a professor of politics and philosophy in Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service.
        Mrs. Bernstein, the former Sheva Rosenthal, was a Minnesotan, like her husband of 46 years. She was a native of St. Paul, a graduate of the University of Minnesota and an economist who held a variety of posts with Hadassah, the League of Women Voters and other social service organizations.
        'Humane Presence'
        In tributes yesterday, Dr. Evelyn E. Handler, president of Brandeis, hailed the couple's deep commitment and Dr. Bernstein's dedication as ''a scholar of international stature,'' and the Rev. Dr. Leo J. O'Donovan, Georgetown's president, lauded Dr. Bernstein's ''generous scholarship and humane presence.''
        From 1969 to 1975, Dr. Bernstein was chairman of the national commission of B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundations, the policy body for the Hillel centers on 284 college campuses. An early initiative was his introduction of young people, eight students, to the 75-member commission after they complained of being ''disenfranchised.''
        Marver Hillel Bernstein was a native of Mankato, Minn., who earned bachelor and master's degrees at the University of Wisconsin, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and a doctorate at Princeton. He was a budget examiner for the Federal Government from 1942 to 1946, when he began his academic career at Princeton. He was also a frequent consultant to Federal, state and local government agencies, where he excelled in negotiations, notably in 1967 when he broke a partisan deadlock over reapportionment of New Jersey's Legislature.
        He was a former president of the National Federation for Jewish Culture and the American Professors for Peace in the Middle East. He belonged to many civic groups, including the Massachusetts Ethics Commission and the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, and was an honorary trustee of the American Jewish Historical Society and the Foundation for Jewish Studies. He earned many honorary degrees.
        His survivors include a sister, Nathalie Hurwitz, of St. Paul. Mrs. Bernstein's survivors include two sisters, Midge Decter, the writer, of Manhattan and East Hampton, L.I., and Connie Field, of Mandota Heights, Minn., and her stepmother, Dr. Miriam Freund Rosenthal, of St. Paul, a former national president of Hadassah.
      