
       Lester J. Maitland, a hero of pioneer aviation who became an Episcopal priest late in life, died on Tuesday night at a rest home in Scottsdale. He was 91 years old.
        Lester J. Maitland, a hero of pioneer aviation who became an Episcopal priest late in life, died on Tuesday night at a rest home in Scottsdale. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Maitland, then an Army pilot, earned the Distinguished Flying Cross in 1927 when he made the first flight from the United States mainland to Hawaii.
        He and his co-pilot and navigator, Albert F. Hegenberger, flew a three-engine Fokker, the Bird of Paradise, from Oakland, Calif., to Wheeler Field on Oahu in June 1927.
        The 2,400-mile flight took 25 hours 49 minutes 30 seconds. Their navigation was aided by a radio beacon set up by the Army on the island.
        A Feat: Finding the Island
        ''The big thing about that feat was to find the island,'' said Ted Hankey of Indian Wells, Calif,, a family friend, ''It didn't allow for any mistakes. They didn't have the equipment they have today.''
        Both fliers received the Distinguished Flying Cross. They were celebrated at a huge reception in Honolulu. Mr. Hegenberger died in 1983. Mr. Maitland, born in Milwaukee on Feb. 8, 1899, joined the Army Air Corps in 1917. He received flight training at Rich Field in Waco, Tex., and was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1918.
        In 1923, as a member of an Army racing team, he set a world's speed record by flying an Army Curtiss racer 239.95 miles an hour.
        Earlier, Mr. Hankey said, Mr. Maitland was the first pilot to fly at 200 miles an hour and received a congratulatory letter from Orville Wright.
        Aide to Billy Mitchell
        In his military career he was an aide to Gen. Billy Mitchell, the aviation advocate, and to the first Assistant Secretary of War for Air, Truvee Davidson.
        At the outbreak of United States involvement in World War II, Mr. Maitland was commanding officer of Clark Field in the Philippines when it fell to Japan.
        He rose to brigadier general, becoming commanding officer of the 386th Bomber Group in the European Theater of Operations, and Mr. Hankey was his operations officer.
        After the war he became a state director of aeronautics in Wisconsin in 1949, and took a similar state position in Michigan from 1950 to 1956.
        Then, in an abrupt change of careers, he was ordained an Episcopal priest in 1957 in Iron River, Mich. He retired to Red Bluff, Calif., but had recently been in a convalescent home in Arizona, where his daughter, Eileen Knoop, lives.Mr. Maitland also leaves his wife, Kathleen, and four grandchildren.
      