
       Carmine S. Bellino, a Congressional investigator for 30 years who was credited with a major role in bringing about the downfall of the teamster leaders James R. Hoffa and Dave Beck, died of prostate cancer on Tuesday at his home in Coconut Creek, Fla., where he had lived in retirement since 1983. He was 84 years old.
        Carmine S. Bellino, a Congressional investigator for 30 years who was credited with a major role in bringing about the downfall of the teamster leaders James R. Hoffa and Dave Beck, died of prostate cancer on Tuesday at his home in Coconut Creek, Fla., where he had lived in retirement since 1983. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Bellino, a certified public accountant and a former special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was a high-level aide to President John F. Kennedy. He also worked for several investigating committees, from the McClellan inquiry into labor-management improprieties in the late 1950's to the Senate Watergate panel in the mid-1970's.
        His work uncovering illicit activities was typified by the Beck case, in which the union chief made $270,000 in ''loan repayments'' to the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Mr. Bellino discovered that no loans had been made but that the amount repaid matched the union funds that had been used for the leader's personal benefit. Mr. Beck eventually went to prison for stealing from the union.
        Mr. Hoffa, after a long battle with Senate investigators armed with Mr. Bellino's findings, was convicted of jury tampering and fraud. He also went to prison.
        Described as 'Best Investigator'
        Robert F. Kennedy, who was counsel to the McClellan committee before he became Attorney General, called Mr. Bellino ''the best investigator in the country.''
        As chief investigator for the Senate Watergate committee in 1973, which investigated the cover-up that followed a break-in at Democratic national headquarters in 1972, Mr. Bellino survived charges made public by George Bush, then Republican national chairman and a former Director of Central Intelligence. Mr. Bush said Mr. Bellino had ordered electronic surveillance of Republican offices to aid the Democrats in the 1960 Presidential election campaign, when John Kennedy defeated Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Bellino's role in the Watergate inquiry was to perform his specialty, following the chain of money.
        Born in Elizabeth, N.J., Mr. Bellino received an accounting degree from New York University. After seven years in private practice, he became a special agent for the F.B.I. in 1934 and by 1945 was an administrative assistant to J. Edgar Hoover, head of the bureau.
        Mr. Bellino returned to private accounting practice but was soon called upon for Congressional investigative work. He found evidence of widespread ''skimming'' of money from slot machines at American bases in West Germany by military officers and discovered that Maj. Gen. Bennett E. Meyers, deputy chief of procurement for the Air Force in World War II, had secretly owned a war plant.
        General Meyers went to prison, as did John Maragon, a White House aide in the Administration of President Harry S. Truman who was convicted of perjury after an investigation of ''5 percenters,'' intermediaries who collected fees for procuring government contracts for businessmen. Mr. Bellino found bank deposits totaling $120,000 over a five-year period by Mr. Maragon, who earned $30,000 a year.
        Mr. Bellino's first wife, the former Santina Novello, died in 1979. He leaves his second wife, the former Catherine DiGiacomo; three sons and four daughters from his first marriage, Francis, of Buffalo; Robert, of San Francisco; Joseph, of Washington; Mary Catherine Van Deven of Westmont, Ill.; Mary Joan Mastrangelo of Grand Prairie, Tex.; Mary Sandra Foster of Wilmington, Del., and Mary Joyce Benson of Brown Summit, N.C., and 31 grandchildren.
      