
       T. Roland Berner, chairman and president of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation for the last 30 years, died of a heart attack on Sunday while visiting relatives in Boston. He was 80 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J.
        T. Roland Berner, chairman and president of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation for the last 30 years, died of a heart attack on Sunday while visiting relatives in Boston. He was 80 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J.
        Mr. Berner, a lawyer, was known as a scrappy in-fighter, both as a counsel to business giants and an industrial executive at Curtiss-Wright, the diversified producer of aerospace components.
        In 1948, more than a decade before he became head of what was then primarily a maker of aircraft engines, Mr. Berner led a group of dissident stockholders seeking to oust the company's management.
        Led Takeover Battle
        In the late 1970's and early 80's, at the helm of Curtiss-Wright, he waged an unsuccessful three-year battle to gain control of the Kennecott Copper Corporation. The struggle ended with a 1981 agreement that neither concern would try to take over the other for the next 10 years. Kennecott, however, came away with Curtiss-Wright's pollution-control subsidiary, Dorr-Oliver Inc.
        Mr. Berner was born in Manhattan and grew up on a dairy farm in Merrill, Wis. He graduated from Harvard and the Columbia Law School and began practice in 1936 with the Manhattan law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore.
        In World War II, as a lieutenant commander, he was director of the Navy's air operational training in Jacksonville, Fla.
        After the war, he returned to private law practice in Manhattan and gained a number of large corporate clients. He was a director of several industrial and financial entities, including General Precision Equipment, Amerace, GAF, the Mutual Income Fund and the Concord Fund.
        Chairman of Western Union
        In 1984 Mr. Berner served briefly as chairman and chief executive of Western Union during a troubled period. At the time Curtiss-Wright was the largest single shareholder of Western Union.
        He was active in philanthropic and cultural affairs, with a particular interest in music. He was a founder of the Leventritt piano competition, a trustee of the Carnegie Hall Corporation and the Marlboro Music School and Festival, and a director of Young Audiences Inc. and the Business Committee for the Arts.
        Mr. Berner's wife, the former Rosalie Leventritt, died in 1983. Surviving are three sons, Edgar, of Warren, Conn., and Thomas and Richard, both of Cold Spring, N.Y.; two daughters, Rosalie Fedoruk of Washington and Dr. Winifred Parker of Wayland, Mass.; a sister, May Bell of Hallandale, Fla., and 12 grandchildren.
      