
       Virgil M. Rogers, a former dean of education at Syracuse University who had served as a local school superintendent in three states died Saturday at the Birchwood Care Center in Syracuse, N.Y. He was 92 years old and lived in Syracuse.
        Virgil M. Rogers, a former dean of education at Syracuse University who had served as a local school superintendent in three states died Saturday at the Birchwood Care Center in Syracuse, N.Y. He was 92 years old and lived in Syracuse.
        Dr. Rogers was Superintendent of Schools in the Colorado communities of Gunnison and Boulder, in River Forest, Ill., and Battle Creek, Mich. At Battle Creek, in the early 1940's, he inspired a dispute by hiring the first black teachers for the school system, A Role in Little Rock Fight In 1958 Mr. Rogers, the grandson of slave owners, born and reared in the South, testified in Federal District Court on behalf of black students in an action by the school board of Little Rock, Ark., to suspend racial integration for two and a half years.
        In 1953 he was named dean of the School of Education at Syracuse and held the post until he retired in 1963. He then moved to Washington and led National Education Association tours to Europe, South America, Africa and the Middle East.
        Dr. Rogers was a former president of the American Association of School Administrators and in 1989 received its Distinguished Service Award in Educational Administration.
        Schooling in Postwar Germany
        He was born in Spartanburg, S.C., and graduated from Wofford College. He received a master's degree from Western State College, Gunnison, and a Ph.D. from Teachers College of Columbia University.
        He served in the Army in World War I. At the close of World War II he was sent to Germany as an Army brigadier general to help plan the reorganization of the German school system.
        Twice widowed, Dr. Rogers is survived by a son, Bruce C. of Sacramento, Calif.; two daughters, Virginia Andrews of Syracuse and Julie Rogers of Cottage Grove, Ore., and six grandchildren. A brother, Louis of Spartanburg, and a sister, Louise Rast of Eutawville, S.C., also survive.
      