
       Gerald V. Bull, a Canadian-born rocket scientist and international arms consultant who ran afoul of a weapons embargo against South Africa, was shot to death on Thursday night at his apartment in a suburb of Brussels, the authorities said. He was 62 years old.
        Gerald V. Bull, a Canadian-born rocket scientist and international arms consultant who ran afoul of a weapons embargo against South Africa, was shot to death on Thursday night at his apartment in a suburb of Brussels, the authorities said. He was 62 years old.
        Dr. Bull was shot in the neck while trying to enter his apartment in the suburb of Uccle, the Belgian authorities said. Reuters reported that $20,000 in cash was left untouched in his pocket, leading investigators to believe that he was slain for reasons other than robbery.
        The agency quoted diplomats as saying that Dr. Bull, working from his Belgian base, had provided countries such as South Africa, Iran and Iraq with advice on building artillery and other heavy weapons. His son, Stephen, in a statement issued yesterday, said that for a number of years his father, president of the Space Research Corporation, had been involved in aeronautic and defense research.
        In 1980, Dr. Bull pleaded guilty in Federal District Court in Vermont to making illegal arms shipments to South Africa in violation of United States munitions laws. The measures were designed to enforce a United Nations arms embargo against South Africa because of its system of apartheid. He served six months in prison. #50,000 Artillery Shells At the time of the violations in the late 1970's, the Space Research Corporation, whch Dr. Bull founded, was based at sites straddling the United States-Canadian border, in North Troy, Vt., and Highwater, Quebec. The authorities said at the time that the illegal operation involved smuggling advanced howitzer technology and more than 50,000 artillery shells to the South African government.
        Dr. Bull, who was born in North Bay, Ontario, in 1928, received his undergraduate and master's degrees and his Ph.D. from the University of Toronto. He first came come to prominence in the United States with some far-reaching ideas in the early 1960's as an aeronautical engineer and aerophysicist.
        As a professor of engineering science at McGill University in Montreal in 1962, he developed an experimental project designed to use two 16-inch United States naval guns to launch small missiles into space. Dr. Bull reasoned that small rockets fired from such guns could be ignited at high altitudes and thus reach space.
        He had developed the idea of firing missiles with guns about 10 years earlier, when he was superintendent of the aerophysics wing of the Canadian Armament Research Development Establishment.
        Dr. Bull served as a lecturer in the 1950's at Laval University in Quebec.
        He established an aerospace science program at Norwich University in Northfield, Vt., in the late 1960's.
      