
       Isidore Adler, a scientist, educator and researcher who was among the first to map the chemical composition of the back of the moon, died of cancer on Monday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 73 years old and lived in Silver Spring.
        Isidore Adler, a scientist, educator and researcher who was among the first to map the chemical composition of the back of the moon, died of cancer on Monday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 73 years old and lived in Silver Spring.
        In the early 1970's, as a senior scientist with the Goddard Space Flight Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Professor Adler designed lunar-data analysis experiments for the Apollo 15 and Apollo 16 missions.
        Training for Astronauts
        He also trained astronauts in using the experiments and conducted studies of condensation processes at high temperatures to better understand condensation in cosmic clouds. He also and investigated radiation-damage phenomena.
        His honors included the John Lindsay Memorial Award from the Goddard center and the NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Award.
        Professor Adler joined the faculty of the University of Maryland in 1974 as a professor in the department of chemistry and biochemistry. He headed its geochemistry division and was co-director of ''The World of Chemistry,'' a 26-part series for national public and cable television meant to create an appreciation of chemistry.
        The programs, which are to be shown this fall, will also be used to teach chemistry at the college level. He retired in 1986.
        Geological Survey Role
        From 1969 to 1989, he and his wife, the former Annie Herman, worked as volunteers with exceptional students from all 50 states at the National Youth Science Camps.
        Earlier in his career he was a project leader with the United States Geological Survey and a chemist with the United States Customs Laboratory in Manhattan. In World War II he was an Air Force meteorologist.
        He received bachelor's degrees at Brooklyn College and New York University and a doctorate at Brooklyn Polytechnic. He was a former associate editor of Applied Spectroscopy and Chemical Geology. Professor Adler retired in 1986.
        In addition to his wife, Professor Adler is survived by a daughter, Elaine LeDoux of Ellicott City, Md.; a son, Dr. Samuel E. of Baltimore; a brother, Edward of Fort Lee, N.J., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 5, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        A headline on Friday on the obituary of Isidore Adler, a scientist, educator and researcher, referred incorrectly to his research on the moon.
        Professor Adler mapped the chemical composition of the far side of the moon.
      