
       John Dexter, a leading English director of theater and opera, died of heart failure in a London hospital on Friday. He was 64 years old. Mr. Dexter, who won two Tony Awards, was known for the sweep of his directorial imagination with contemporary plays as well as with classics. One of a corps of directors who in the late 1950's and early 60's led the Royal Court Theater into the arena of new and venturesome plays, he was closely identified with the early work of Arnold Wesker.
        John Dexter, a leading English director of theater and opera, died of heart failure in a London hospital on Friday. He was 64 years old. Mr. Dexter, who won two Tony Awards, was known for the sweep of his directorial imagination with contemporary plays as well as with classics. One of a corps of directors who in the late 1950's and early 60's led the Royal Court Theater into the arena of new and venturesome plays, he was closely identified with the early work of Arnold Wesker. Under the leadership of Laurence Olivier, he also served for seven years as an associate director of England's National Theater. In more recent years, as a director of opera and as director of productions for the Metropolitan Opera (from 1974 to 1981), he achieved a second international reputation.
        Two seasons ago, he won a Tony Award as best director for David Henry Hwang's ''M. Butterfly.'' In 1975 he won his first Tony for directing Peter Shaffer's ''Equus.'' His final Broadway production was a revival early this season of ''The Threepenny Opera.''
        From the Small to the Epic
        The cycle of Mr. Dexter's career led him from small, naturalistic plays to grand-scale epics, and he moved in this wide spectrum with apparent ease, although sometimes with controversy. The range of his work was demonstrated by the plays he did with Mr. Shaffer - the historical spectacle of ''The Royal Hunt of the Sun,'' the farce ''Black Comedy'' and the psychological drama of ''Equus.''
        As Mr. Shaffer wrote: ''Dexter directs powerfully through suggestion. Into the theatrical spaces he contrives, flows the communal imagination of an audience. He enables it to charge the action of a play with electric life. He is a master of gesture and of economy. Esthetically, his founding fathers are Noh drama and Bertolt Brecht: the plain plank; the clear light; the great pleasure in a set-piece . . . He is naturally and rightly drawn to plays which demand elaborate physical actions to complete them.''
        Jocelyn Herbert, Mr. Dexter's stage designer, said his ''public reputation is one of a brilliant theater and opera director, but a difficult one to work with.''
        ''His acerbic wit and biting tongue were often cruel and hard to bear . . . but it is only one side of the man,'' Miss Herbert said. ''Beneath this layer of satire and irony he was full of self-doubt and nervous tension.''
        Little Formal Education
        That self-doubt may have derived from the fact that, in contrast to many of his theatrical colleagues, he was not university educated, although, in apparent compensation, he became known as an intellectual. He was born in Derby on Aug. 2, 1925, the son of a plumber. His schooling ended at the age of 14, when he went to work in a factory. It was in the army that he began acting, and he continued that profession in civilian life.
        The playwright John Osborne took him to the Royal Court, where he soon became a directing protege of George Devine, the founding director of the English Stage Company. Mr. Dexter was said to be the model for the unseen character of Webster in Mr. Osborne's ''Look Back in Anger.'' Together with Lindsay Anderson, Tony Richardson and others at the Royal Court, Mr. Dexter helped discover an array of outspoken new playwrights.
        His most creative collaboration was with Mr. Wesker. He staged the author's first domestic plays, ''Chicken Soup With Barley,'' ''Roots,'' ''The Kitchen'' and ''I'm Talking About Jerusalem,'' as well as his drama about the army service, ''Chips With Everything,'' which he also directed on Broadway.
        Canadian Appointment Rescinded
        In 1963 he was named one of Olivier's associate directors at the National Theater, where he staged classics, including Olivier's ''Othello'' as well as plays by Mr. Shaffer. When his association with the National Theater ended, he continued as an independent director at the National, on the West End and on Broadway (in 1983 he directed Jessica Tandy in a revival of ''The Glass Menagerie''). In 1980 he was named artistic director of the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in Canada; his appointment was rescinded after protests because he was not Canadian.
        While continuing to work in theater, he gradually built a considerable operatic career in London, Hamburg and New York. As part of a triumvirate at the Metropolitan Opera, he shared authority with James Levine and Anthony Bliss from 1974 to 1981. When the triumvirate ended, Mr. Dexter became production adviser.
        His work at the Met included his acclaimed production of Poulenc's ''Dialogues of the Carmelites.'' In The New York Times, Bernard Holland wrote about a revival that ''Mr. Dexter's creation has the personality and forcefulness - and beauty - to work for many seasons to come.'' He also directed Berg's ''Lulu,'' the Brecht-Weill ''Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny,'' Mozart's ''Die Entfuhrung aus dem Serail,'' and two triple bills, ''Stravinsky'' and ''Parade.'' Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times that he staged ''Parade,'' an evening of French music, with ''unending inventiveness,'' two words that could summarize Mr. Dexter's directorial approach throughout his career.
        There are no known survivors.
      