
       Gary Merrill, a ruggedly handsome actor who appeared in more than 40 films as well as many plays and television shows, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home in Falmouth, Me. He was 74 years old.
        Gary Merrill, a ruggedly handsome actor who appeared in more than 40 films as well as many plays and television shows, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home in Falmouth, Me. He was 74 years old.
        Mr. Merrill was born in Hartford in 1915 and attended Bowdoin and Trinity Colleges. He began his acting career in the late 1930's at several regional theaters and played in a 1939 Broadway comedy, ''See My Lawyer.'' During his four years in the Army in World War II, Mr. Merrill appeared in Irving Berlin's ''This Is the Army'' and in the stage and screen versions of Moss Hart's ''Winged Victory'' (1944). He was also assigned to an Army Air Forces Radio unit, which led to roles in many radio dramas after the war.
        Through a recommendation from Hart, Mr. Merrill was cast as a young, liberal reporter in Garson Kanin's 1945 comedy ''Born Yesterday.'' After playing the lead in another Broadway hit, ''At War With the Army,'' he was signed by 20th Century Fox in 1949. His film career quickly took off, and he played leading roles in two 1950 movies, ''Twelve O'Clock High'' and - opposite Bette Davis - ''All About Eve.''
        Mr. Merrill and Miss Davis married that year, shortly after he divorced his first wife, Barbara Leeds. During their frequently stormy 10-year marriage, they adopted two children, Margot and Michael, and appeared together in films including ''Another Man's Poison'' (1952) and ''Phone Call From a Stranger'' (1952), and a 1959 stage show called ''An Evening With Carl Sandburg.''
        ''When I think of my marriage to Bette, I think we were playing at it the way we played roles in the movies,'' Mr. Merrill recalled in a 1989 interview. ''We fell in love in the movies. Subconsciously, we just went on after the movie was finished. As the demands of real life set in, we realized the premise was wrong.''
        Autobiography Was Published
        After their divorce, Mr. Merrill had a long, much-publicized relationship with Rita Hayworth that he chronicled in a 1989 autobiography called ''Bette, Rita and the Rest of My Life.''
        Between the 1950's and 1970's, Mr. Merrill appeared in many films, including ''Decision Before Dawn'' (1952), ''The Wonderful Country'' (1959), ''The Savage Eye'' (1960), ''Around the World Under the Sea'' (1966) and ''Huckleberry Finn'' (1974) - as well as a number of television dramas and the ''Young Dr. Kildare'' series. His deep voice was heard in many commercials, and he narrated television documentaries like ''The Making of Liberty,'' a 1986 study of the restoration of the Statue of Liberty, and documentaries for institutions like the Museum of the City of New York and the Boscobel mansion in Garrison, N.Y. Among his stage credits were ''Step on a Crack'' (1962), ''The Hemingway Hero'' (1967), ''Rosebloom'' (1971) and ''Morning's at Seven'' (1980).
        Mr. Merrill frequently insisted that he had been only an adequate actor and never worked at acting. ''I had no drive, really,'' he told an interviewer. ''I just like to get by and have fun.'' Mr. Merrill had lived in Maine since the 1950's, and in 1971 he bought a historic lighthouse at Cape Elizabeth. Long active in liberal causes, he helped rejuvenate Maine's Democratic Party by actively supporting Edmund S. Muskie's successful 1953 bid for governor, and participated in the 1965 civil-rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Ala. But because of his disillusionment with the Johnson Administration's policies in Vietnam, he switched parties. In 1968, he ran an unsuccessful primary campaign as an antiwar, environmental candidate for one of Maine's Congressional seats.
        Mr. Merrill is survived by his son, Michael, of Brookline, Mass.; his daughter, Margot, of Geneva, N.Y.; a brother, Jerry, of Cape Elizabeth, Me., and two grandchildren.
      