
       State Senator Abraham Bernstein, a Bronx Democrat who served almost 30 years in the Legislature and whose district stretched from Riverdale to Co-op City, died of a heart attack yesterday at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 71 years old.
        State Senator Abraham Bernstein, a Bronx Democrat who served almost 30 years in the Legislature and whose district stretched from Riverdale to Co-op City, died of a heart attack yesterday at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Bernstein, a fiery debater and one of the most senior members of the Senate, was a champion of liberal causes throughout his career, fighting for affordable housing and against the reintroduction of the death penalty.
        In 1977, in one of his most dramatic Senate appearances, Mr. Bernstein was brought into the chamber in a wheelchair just three days after his leg was amputated to vote in favor of a bill that would remove criminal penalties for possession of small amounts of marijuana for personal use. The legislation passed by two votes.
        ''He was a fighter,'' a friend, former Assemblyman Vincent Marchiselli, said yesterday. ''He loved the battle and loved the debate. He never shrank from what he believed in.''
        The Cheapest Senate Race
        Despite some early challenges, he easily won re-election term after term. In 1986, for example, he spent $189 on his campaign, the cheapest Senate race in the state, according to a survey by Citizen Action, a statewide group.
        At his death, Mr. Bernstein was the ranking minority member on the Senate's Banking Committee. Among his other committee assignments were veterans affairs, finance, housing, judiciary, government operations and mental hygiene.
        Mr. Bernstein graduated from Dewitt Clinton High School and City College before earning a law degree at Brooklyn Law School. He was admitted to the bar in 1941 and was first elected to the Senate in 1960.
        Besides his legislative work, Mr. Bernstein served as a director of the Pelham Parkway Jewish Center, the Columbus-Evander Youth and Adult Center, Bronx House and the Zionist Organization of America (District 11). He was also the former treasurer of the Bronx chapter of Muscular Dystrophy.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gretchen Diamond; a son, David, of Sparta, N.J.; a daughter, Dr. Barbara Bernstein of Armonk, N.Y.; a brother, Irving, of Tustin, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      