
       Ernst Bacon, a prolific composer, pianist, conductor and teacher whose career spanned more than six decades, died of heart failure on Friday at his home in Orinda, Calif. He was 91 years old.
        Ernst Bacon, a prolific composer, pianist, conductor and teacher whose career spanned more than six decades, died of heart failure on Friday at his home in Orinda, Calif. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Bacon, whose work was regarded by critics as having a distinctly American sound, composed two symphonies, two piano concertos and two operas. But the bulk of his compositions consisted of orchestral suites and chamber music. He also wrote more than 70 settings of Emily Dickinson poems as well as many more of poems by A. E. Housman and Walt Whitman.
        Mr. Bacon wrote several books, among them ''Words on Music'' (Greenwood) and ''Notes on the Piano'' (University of Washington Press), both published more than 25 years ago and still in print.
        Bringing Bach to the West
        Born in Chicago, he studied at the Lewis Institute of Northwestern University and received a master's degree from the University of California. He studied with Ernest Bloch, Karl Weigl and Eugene Goosens, among others.
        He toured as a concert pianist in this country and Europe before joining the faculty of the Eastman School of Music and becoming assistant conductor of the Rochester Opera Company.
        In 1928 he went to the West Coast and founded a Bach festival in Carmel, Calif. He was also a supervising conductor in the Federal Music Project in San Francisco.
        From 1928 to 1945 Mr. Bacon was dean of the School of Music at Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., and director of the New Spartanburg Festival. He was director of the Syracuse University School of Music from 1945 to 1947 and stayed on as composer-in-residence for several years.
        Three years ago, when he was 88 years old and nearly blind, Mr. Bacon composed a sonata for viola. He continued to compose and to write about music until shortly before his death. He was also an avid hiker.
        He is survived by his fourth wife, the former Ellen Wendt, whom he married in 1972; two daughters, Marga Farrell of Cambridge, England, and Madeline Salocks of Walnut Creek, Calif.; three sons, Joseph, of Fairfax, Calif., Arthur, of Danville, Calif., and David, of Orinda; a sister, Madi, of Berkeley, Calif.; 11 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      