
       Zenon Rossides, a diplomat who represented Cyprus at the United Nations for two decades, died Tuesday at Doctors Hospital after a stroke. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Zenon Rossides, a diplomat who represented Cyprus at the United Nations for two decades, died Tuesday at Doctors Hospital after a stroke. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Rossides became his country's first delegate to the United Nations when Cyprus achieved independence from Britain in 1960. He held the post until 1979. In the years before Cyprus became a republic he attended General Assembly sessions as a member of the Greek delegation.
        From 1960 to 1973, Mr. Rossides was also the Cypriot Ambassador to the United States, living most of the time in Washington and shuttling to New York for United Nations meetings.
        He was born in Limassol on the Mediterranean island and was educated in Cyprus before going to London to study law. After gaining admission to the bar in 1923, he returned to Cyprus for six years and became involved with nationalist causes.
        A Representative in London
        From 1929 until 1931 he was in London again, this time as a representative of the National Council of Cyprus. In the 1931 uprising on the island he was arrested by the British colonial authorities and confined to the village of Kythrea for two years.
        At the end of World War II he went again to London to plead the Cypriot cause, an effort that culminated in formation in 1959 of the London Joint Committee, consisting of Britain, Greece, Tukey and Cyprus, that worked out details of the establishment of a republic on the island.
        In the mid-1960's and again a decade later, when long-smoldering hostilities between the Greek ethnic majority and the Turkish minority on Cyprus erupted into civil war, Mr. Rossides was active in bringing about United Nations intervention after Turkish forces invaded Cyprus in 1974, Eventually a United Nations peacekeeping force was sent to the divided island.
        He was also active in promoting general disarmament and frequently spoke out on disarmament questions after his retirement.
        Mr. Rossides, who was fluent in French as well as English and Greek, also wrote poetry that was published in British literary magazines. He was the author of three books that appeared betwen 1930 and 1958, all dealing with the struggle for Cypriot independence.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Teresa Michaelides, whom he married in 1929.
      