
       Bruno Bettelheim, the psychoanalyst whose deep empathy for children led him to a lifelong effort to heal the emotional wounds of early life, died yesterday at a retirement home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 86 years old.
        Bruno Bettelheim, the psychoanalyst whose deep empathy for children led him to a lifelong effort to heal the emotional wounds of early life, died yesterday at a retirement home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 86 years old.
        Maryland's chief medical examiner, Dr. John E. Smialek, said last night that the cause of death was suicide by asphyxiation, but he declined to give further details, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. Bettelheim was a pioneer in treating childhood mental disturbances, and his therapeutic techniques became major contributions to therapy for children. But his provocative theories won him critics as well as admirers, and sometimes even he changed his mind about his theories.
        His appreciation of the wonder of childhood became apparent to millions of readers far beyond his field of psychoanalysis when he wrote ''The Uses of Enchantment,'' in which he probed fairy tales for the secrets of their emotional power over children.
        While he was widely admired as a practicing therapist and as a profound and original thinker in psychoanalysis, many of his views were criticized as maverick, said Peter Blos, a prominent psychoanalyst in New York City. For example, he said, while Dr. Bettelheim embraced Freudian thought, ''he never worked in strictly Freudian terms.'' That is, he invented treatment methods that went far beyond orthodox Freudian therapy.
        ''His impact on the culture went far beyond psychoanalysis,'' said Robert Coles, a child psychiatrist at Harvard University. ''He was an enormously gifted writer and social essayist, with a great literary and moral sensibility. And he had personal heroism, in dedicating himself to finding a way to treat the hardest-to-reach children - demanding, exhausting work.''
        He seemed to thrive on the controversy his theories often aroused. Known for his provocative views on issues from why some people survived Nazi concentration camps while others died, to the student rebellions of the 1960's, Dr. Bettelheim was one of the few members of his profession to find international prominence.
        Bruno Bettelheim died 52 years to the day after the Nazis marched into his native Austria, on March 13, 1938. That day began an odyssey. He spent nearly two years in the Buchenwald and Dachau concentration camps, gaining from that ordeal insights into the human condition. Those insights were to become foundations for a revolutionary and humane approach to treating disturbed children at the Orthogenic School, the pioneering treatment center he founded at the University of Chicago.
        Cruelty Turned Upside Down
        ''He told me that once you were in a camp, you could never escape the cruelty,'' said Rudolph Ekstein, a psychoanalyst in Los Angeles and a close friend. ''He turned it upside down when he started his school for disturbed children. It was a protected, caring environment, the mirror opposite of the camps. The door was locked to the outside, but always open from the inside.''
        Dr. Bettelheim's first work, in which he described the disintegration of dignity and personality in the Nazi concentration camps, was criticized as well as widely read for its insights. ''It was his first impact on the intellectual world, but many Jews were offended because he felt that to some degree the Jews provoked some of the actions of the Nazis,'' said Dr. Blos.
        But Dr. Ekstein said Dr. Bettelheim ''was purposely provocative, in order to bring the truth to light. He once asked me, what good is it having a friend who always agrees with you? He answered himself: completely worthless.''
        Love Amid Belligerence
        Many were put off by Dr. Bettelheim's gruff exterior and sometimes prickly, belligerent manner, said Dr. Ekstein. ''He was like a techer who provokes you so you think. It's not always a friendly gesture. There was a lot of love in it, but some people found his style hard to take.''
        One of Dr. Bettelheim's most influential books was ''Love Is Not Enough,'' which described his work at the Orthogenic School. ''It had a tremendous impact on residential treatment centers,'' said Dr. Jackie Sanders, a psychologist who now directs the Orthogenic School. ''It showed that you could treat children who had been thought unreachable, and that the best approach combined respect for their dignity with structure and clear limits.''
        His method, which he called a ''total therapeutic milieu,'' was distinguished by the respect with which his charges were treated: The children ate from china plates and lived in a home that was plush by any standards for institutions. His treatment philosophy also included using all the staff, and all the day, for interactions that were part of the therapy rather than limiting treatment to isolated hours.
        But some of the claims Dr. Bettelheim made, such as that he achieved an 85 percent rate of ''full return to participation in life,'' were also criticized as inflated.
        Dr. Bettelheim frequently spoke out on social issues. In the early 60's, he was known as ''Dr. Yes'' for his indulgent approach to the treatment of autistic children. Yet in the late '60's he was the most prominent psychologist to turn against youthful activists, denouncing them as neo-Nazis and blaming their parents for failing to teach them ''to fear.''
        Book Was 'Testament'
        In a 1987 book, ''A Good Enough Parent: A Book on Child-Rearing,'' published by Knopf, he offered a different view, that children are innately good and that parents are innately ''good enough.'' It was ''a summation of my life work,'' he told an interviewer. ''I'm an old man, and I've worked with disturbed children for 50 years. It's time to sum up what I think is the right way to raise children. This book is my testament.''
        The Dr. Bettelheim in this book is far different from the therapist who, decades earlier, blamed the behavior of ''schizophrenogenic mothers'' for autism in children. As time went on, that view was intensely criticized. Many suggested it was not only misguided but needlessly provoked guilt in parents. Some even suggested it was misogynistic. The point of view is now regarded as outmoded, at least when it comes to extremely disturbed children.
        Born in Vienna on Aug. 28, 1903, Bruno Bettelheim grew up there during the age of Freud. By the age of 14 he was reading widely about psychoanalysis. The initial impetus, he said later, came from a desire to secure the affections of a girl who had expressed interest in an older boy who was already expert in the subject.
        But his interest in the subject continued long after his affection for the girl had faded, and he used to go out of his way to walk along the street where Freud had his home, ''only because Freud lived there,'' he wrote in 1977.
        Fascinated by Autism
        Trained as a psychologist at the University of Vienna, Dr. Bettelheim early became fascinated with the treatment of autism, a disorder then widely thought incurable, in which a young child withdraws into a private world, communicating little or not at all.
        Dr. Bettelheim was convinced that autistic children would respond to a special environment. In 1932, he took an autistic child into his home, an experiment that was ended when the Nazis annexed Austria in 1938.
        Dr. Bettelheim spent almost two years in Buchenwald and Dachau but was released in 1939 after both Gov. Herbert Lehman of New York and Eleanor Roosevelt intervened with the Germans on his behalf.
        His article, ''Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations,'' about his experience in the camps, attracted worldwide attention. In later years he wrote that he was able to retain his identify in the camps because, in his earlier life, he had cultivated the powers of observation and analysis.
        In ''Surviving,'' an essay published in The New Yorker in 1976, he said prisoners who survived were those who lived not for life's sake but for some cultural or religious ideal that transcended them.
        Retired in 1973
        Coming to the United States, Dr. Bettelheim joined the University of Chicago, where he taught until his retirement in 1973.
        It was in 1944 at Chicago that Dr. Bettelheim became director of the Sonia Shankman Orthogenic School, which under his direction became a treatment center for disturbed children on the grounds of the university. His work with children there, many of whom were autistic, was the basis for some of his best known works, including ''Love is Not Enough,'' ''Truants from Life,'' ''The Empty Fortress'' and ''A Home for the Heart.''
        The principles that guided the school were inspired in part by his experience in the concentration camps. In his book ''The Informed Heart,'' he observed that in the camps, diabolical pressures disintegrated prisoners' personalities. At the school, he tried to reverse the process, using a warm, supportive environment to buttress the fragile development of disturbed children.
        The idea that children benefit from such a ''therapeutic milieu'' is now one of the basic tenets of treatment.
        Dr. Bettelheim married his wife, Gertrud Weinfeld, also from Vienna, before he came to the United States. They had three children, Ruth, Naomi, and Eric. Mrs. Bettelheim died in 1984.
      