
       James H. R. Cromwell, a wealthy businessman who was briefly a politician and diplomat and best known in the 1930's and 40's as the husband of ''the richest girl in the world,'' Doris Duke, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Marin Terrace retirement home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 93 years old.
        James H. R. Cromwell, a wealthy businessman who was briefly a politician and diplomat and best known in the 1930's and 40's as the husband of ''the richest girl in the world,'' Doris Duke, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Marin Terrace retirement home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 93 years old.
        Mr. Cromwell was connected to three of the greatest fortunes in America through two of his marriages and one of his mother's. While Jimmy, as Mr. Cromwell was known, was in his teens, his mother, Lucretia, married E. T. Stotesbury, a Philadelphia multimillionaire and banking partner of J. P. Morgan.
        Mr. Cromwell's first marriage, in 1920, was to Delphine Dodge, the daughter of Horace T. Dodge, the automobile magnate. The two were divorced in 1928. Marriage to Doris Duke Miss Duke, who became his second wife in 1935, inherited a tobacco fortune from her father, James Buchanan Duke, the founder of Duke University.
        Mr. Cromwell was in the public eye steadily before and during World War II while he was married to Miss Duke. Unlike the vast majority of their peers in the Social Register, they were fervent supporters of Franklin D. Roosevelt and his New Deal.
        In 1933 Mr. Cromwell published a book, ''Voice of Young America,'' in which he advocated measures like guaranteed bank deposits, abandonment of the gold standard, compulsory unemployment insurance and Federally aided public works, all of which came to pass under Roosevelt.
        Four years later, in a treatise, ''In Defense of Capitalism,'' he shocked business leaders by advocating tight control of money by the Federal Reserve System.
        In 1940 Roosevelt appointed Mr. Cromwell Minister to Canada, an ambassadorship at a time when the only Ambassador to a country in the British Commonwealth was the one accredited to the Court of St. James's.
        A Bid for U.S. Senate
        Mr. Cromwell resigned the post after five months to run for the United States Senate from New Jersey; he and Miss Duke lived in a mansion in Somerset County. His only bid for elective office ended in decisive defeat.
        The Cromwells separated soon afterward and in 1943 became involved in acrimonious divorce proceedings that went on for five years. Miss Duke, asserting that her husband wanted a $7 million ''endowment,'' won a decree in Reno, but it was voided by a court in New Jersey. Mr. Cromwell then obtained a divorce that became final in 1948.
        That year he was married for a third time, to Maxine MacFetridge, the daughter of a cement company manager. She died in 1968. In 1971 he married Germaine Benjamin, the widow of a financier. She died in 1987.
        Mr. Cromwell was born in Manhattan, the son of Oliver Eaton Cromwell, a member of an old New York family. He went to Lawrenceville School and spent two years at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Cromwell, an athletic man, piloted racing boats, played tennis with Bill Tilden and was a talented amateur boxer, once staying three rounds with Tommy Loughran, later the world light-heavyweight champion. Mr. Cromwell served in the Marine Corps in World War I. Mr. Cromwell's Career Mr. Cromwell began his business career with Drexel & Co. in Philadelphia. While married to Miss Dodge, he started an automobile finance company, Cromwell-Dodge. In the 1950's he was involved in oil and gas production in the West and in Canada; he retired in the early 1980's.
        He lived for many years in Southampton, L. I., before moving to the West Coast two years ago.
        Mr. Cromwell is survived by a daughter from his marriage to Miss MacFetridge, Hope Hampton of Belvedere, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      