
       Karl Brown, a pioneering Hollywood cinematographer who worked on D. W. Griffith's 1915 silent film epic, ''The Birth of a Nation,'' and wrote several screenplays, died Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 93 years old.
        Karl Brown, a pioneering Hollywood cinematographer who worked on D. W. Griffith's 1915 silent film epic, ''The Birth of a Nation,'' and wrote several screenplays, died Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 93 years old.
        In the early days of Hollywood, Mr. Brown worked as a cinematographer's assistant and created the technique of double-printing. The technique was used in ''Intolerance,'' a 1916 biblical extravaganza also made by Griffith, for which Mr. Brown was second cameraman. That technique gave a supernatural radiance to the character of Christ in the film.
        Mr. Brown also helped develop the miniature projection process that magnified models into monsters for pictures like ''King Kong.'' The snowy river shots of the long trail of wagons that Mr. Brown captured in the 1923 western ''The Covered Wagon,'' are still considered to be among the most artistic scenes in early film making.
        Mr. Brown also directed the 1927 film ''His Dog'' for Cecil B. DeMille. Among his screenplay credits were ''Brewster's Millions,'' ''One Glorious Day,'' ''Ruggles of Red Gap,'' ''Merton of the Movies'' and ''The Pony Express.'' He also wrote ''The Cup of Trembling,'' a 1959 novel about Frederick William Stowe, the son of Harriet Beecher Stowe, and ''Adventures With D. W. Griffith,'' a 1973 memoir of the pioneer film maker.
        In the 1940's, Mr. Brown wrote or adapted 18 low-budget features for major studios, many of them featuring Boris Karloff as a mad scientist.
        One of his final writing credits was for the television series ''Death Valley Days.''
        There are no known survivors. His wife, Edna May Cooper, an actress and aviator, died earlier.
      