
       Richard D. DeLauer, a former Under Secretary of Defense and an executive in the aerospace industry, died of leukemia on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        Richard D. DeLauer, a former Under Secretary of Defense and an executive in the aerospace industry, died of leukemia on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        In the Pentagon post, Dr. Delauer was in charge of research and engineering from 1981 to 1984. He later formed a consulting organization, The Orion Group Ltd., before he became chairman and chief executive of the Fairchild Space and Defense Corporation last year.
        Serving under Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger, Dr. DeLauer was an outspoken advocate of the Pentagon's policies, frequently clashing with Congressional critics and high officers who sought to promote particular programs that failed to win money.
        Work on Ballistic Missiles
        He came to Government service after 15 years as a top official of TRW Inc., the military contractor. As its executive vice president from 1970 until 1981, he played a major role in developing technical aspects of the Air Force's intercontinental ballistic missile programs and other space, military and electronic systems.
        A native of Oakland, Calif., Dr. DeLauer was a graduate of Stanford University who served as an aeronatuical engineering officer in the United States Navy in World War II and stayed on in scientific posts after the war.
        He took part in experimental development of nuclear rocket propulsion technology at the Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico. He received his doctoral degree at the Calfiornia Insitute of Technology and was a co-author of two books on nuclear rocket flight.
        A Space Role for the Navy
        Before he retired from the Navy in 1966, Dr. DeLauer directed space technology laboratories for the Navy and headed its Titan missile program. After retirement he joined TRW as a vice president in charge of its systems engineering division.
        Since 1972, Dr. DeLauer had been a member of the Defense Science Board. At his death he was a member of the Natinal Aeronautics and Space Administration's Advisory Council and the National Research Council. He was a fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the American Astronautical Society, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ann Carmichael; a son, Richard DeLauer Jr. of La Canada, Calif.; two brothers, Clifford, of Oakland, Calif., and Leland, of Las Vegas, and two grandchildren.
      