
       Sabicas, the Spanish gypsy who took the guitar out of the flamenco troupe and established himself as one of the finest solo guitarists of his time, died early Saturday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan after suffering multiple strokes and pneumonia. He was 78 years old and had lived in Manhattan for more than 30 years.
        Sabicas, the Spanish gypsy who took the guitar out of the flamenco troupe and established himself as one of the finest solo guitarists of his time, died early Saturday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan after suffering multiple strokes and pneumonia. He was 78 years old and had lived in Manhattan for more than 30 years.
        His real name was Augustin Castellon, but throughout his career he used Sabicas, a nickname from his childhood in Pamplona in northern Spain. The name was a corruption of a Spanish term for a bean that Sabicas liked to eat as a youngster, a family friend, Francisco Juanas, said.
        Sabicas gave his last public performance in August, Mr. Juanas said, when he played as part of a memorial tribute to Carmen Amaya, the celebrated flamenco dancer, near Barcelona. Since then, Sabicas has been in failing health.
        His last New York performance, Mr. Juanas said, was at Carnegie Hall on June 3, 1989, where Sabicas was honored by the Spanish Government. He shared the bill with others, including Paco de Lucia, a flamenco guitarist who Sabicas called ''my true disciple.''
        'A Soft, Ringing Tone'
        Stephen Holden, reviewing the concert in The New York Times, wrote: ''Sabicas's style is characterized by a soft, ringing tone; clear simply sculpted arrangements, and an unusually relaxed sense of rhythm that at moments almost cuts loose and swings gently.''
        Sabicas was very proud of his gypsy heritage. ''I'm a gypsy, and for the gypsies, this is our music,'' he once told an interviewer. ''My father played a little, and when I was 5 years old, I picked up a guitar, just to make noise. By the time I was 8, I had an audience.''
        He began performing in Madrid at the age of 9 and won the first prize in a flamenco contest at the city's Monumental Cinema at 11. During his adolescence and early 20's, he acquired a nationwide reputation. At the time, flamenco guitar was always played as part of a troupe that included a singer and dancer. ''I had the desire to play it as a solo instrument, which was a total surprise at that time in Spain,'' he said. ''So in the middle of performances by the troupe, I began to play solos.''
        Sabicas developed into a concert artist with a worldwide reputation only after he left Spain for New York and then Buenos Aires in the late 1930's. He toured North and South American countries with Miss Amaya, with whom he had been romantically linked.
        A Handful Of Films
        In the 1940's, he played in a handful of Hollywood films with Miss Amaya. In his guitar case many years later, he still carried pictures of himself with Marlon Brando, Gary Cooper, Edward G. Robinson and Charles Chaplin.
        When he gave his first solo concert in New York in 1959, at Town Hall, some writers hailed it as the first solo flamenco guitar recital in the United States.
        In 1962, Sabicas said before a concert that he practiced four to six hours a day on one of his seven guitars. He made more than 50 recordings of flamenco music in his career.
        Sabicas is survived by a son, Augustin, and a daughter, Margarita, both of Manhattan; a brother, Diego, of Manhattan, and a sister, Carmen, of Malaga, Spain;
      