
       Harold Ballard, the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League and a man described by his team's fact book as ''one of the most loved and hated men in Canada,'' died yesterday in Toronto. He was 86 years old and had spent most of the last two years in and out of hospitals because of diabetes-related heart problems.
        Harold Ballard, the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League and a man described by his team's fact book as ''one of the most loved and hated men in Canada,'' died yesterday in Toronto. He was 86 years old and had spent most of the last two years in and out of hospitals because of diabetes-related heart problems.
        In Toronto, one of the most British of Canadian cities, with downtown streets named ''King'' and ''Queen,'' a large picture of Queen Elizabeth used to hang in Maple Leaf Gardens.
        Things changed when Mr. Ballard became president and governor of the Maple Leafs in 1972. He removed the Queen's picture to make room for more seats.
        No Shortage of Opponents
        ''I just booted her out,'' Ballard told Dick Beddoes, the author of the biography ''Pal Hal.'' ''She never gave me anything. Never paid any taxes for me.''
        Mr. Ballard never let high position inhibit his tongue or his behavior. He often fought with league authorities, his employees, the news media, the fans and his children, often chuckling as he moved from battle to battle. As this year's Maple Leaf press guide put it, ''He continues to defy his critics and dumbfound his detractors by basically just doing whatever he pleases, regardless of what anyone else thinks.''
        Mr. Ballard once called John Ziegler, the president of the National Hockey League, a ''know-nothing shrimp'' and described his own daughter as a ''reptile.''
        ''He was an original, colorful and challenging individual,'' Mr. Ziegler said yesterday.
        He wasn't just talk. At a game in the Philadelphia Spectrum in the late 1970's, Mr. Ballard defended his friend, a hockey legend named King Clancy, when Mr. Clancy, a former player and N.H.L. referee, angered a fan by accidentally knocking over the man's beer.
        ''Harold hit him one shot; knocked him kicking,'' Mr. Clancy said in a 1984 interview. ''I thought we were both going to get arrested. I was afraid. Harold never gave it another thought. He said it served the guy right, that it would do him some good.''
        At the time of this fight, both Mr. Ballard and Mr. Clancy were in their 70's.
        Convicted of Fraud
        Until he acquired control of the team and Maple Leaf Gardens in 1972, Mr. Ballard was little known outside hockey circles. His acquisition of the Leafs, one of Canada's most revered properties, came shortly before Mr. Ballard served a year in jail on a fraud conviction for diverting money from the Gardens' accounts to his own.
        He had his own brand of patriotism. Mr. Ballard opposed hockey games against teams from the Soviet Union, calling the Russians ''parasites and barnacles who steal our money.'' He told friends that on a visit to the Soviet Union he had put a Maple Leaf sticker on Lenin's tomb.
        The Leafs, historically one of hockey's best franchises, gradually became one of its worst teams through the 1980's. Their best season in more than a decade has been the current one, during which Mr. Ballard was gravely ill and others assumed control.
        The Fast Life
        Edwin Harold Ballard was born on July 30, 1903, the only child of Sidney Eustace Ballard and the former Mary Garner. His father was the foreman of a machinery company and his mother took in boarders.
        As a young man-about-town in Toronto's version of the Roaring Twenties, Mr. Ballard participated in speed-skating competitions, raced motorboats and drove a Pierce-Arrow.
        As an aide to the Canadian Olympic hockey team in St. Moritz, Switzerland, in 1928, he carried the national flag in the opening ceremonies. (His father had made the team's skates.) In the Olympic Village, Mr. Ballard stole an Olympic flag and brought it home as a souvenir. Years later, he told friends that someone eventually stole it from him.
        Progresssing Through the Ranks
        Mr. Ballard invested in Maple Leaf Gardens when it was built in 1931 and worked there as he worked his way through the organization in various positions. In 1965, he sold tickets for two Beatles concerts on the same day, although the contract called for only one.
        When the group's manager objected, Mr. Ballard told him the fans would tear down the building with the Beatles in it if they didn't do two shows. Since it was a hot day, Mr. Ballard turned up the building's furnace, delayed both shows and ordered the concession stands to sell only large soft drinks.
        Mr. Ballard, a big, burly man with bright orange-red hair, was ''an old-fashioned pirate,'' said Conn Smythe, who ran Maple Leaf Gardens while the young Mr. Ballard was learning the business.
        ''If there's gold on that ship, it doesn't matter what flag you fly,'' Mr. Smythe said. ''Harold is going aboard and get that gold.''
        Mr. Ballard married a minister's daughter, Dorothy Higgs, who died in 1969. He is survived by three children: William, Harold Jr. and Mary.
        Marriage Called Off
        Mr. Ballard never remarried, although he kept close company in recent years with Yolanda Ballard, who changed her name from MacMillan to Ballard in 1987.
        Harold Ballard and Yolanda Ballard took out a marriage license last January in the Cayman Islands. But Mr. Ballard became ill, called off the wedding and entered the hospital. His last months were filled with court fights involving his children.
        Mr. Ballard's will may determine his heir and the next owner of the team and building. When asked recently about the process of succession, Paul McNamara, chairman of the board of Maple Leaf Gardens, said: ''We just don't know it. I can see a lot of lawsuits flying around here.''
      