
       Arthur A. Houghton Jr., a former president of Steuben Glass and an arts patron who had been chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the New York Philharmonic, died yesterday in Venice (Fla.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and maintained homes in Boca Grande, Fla., and Queenstown,
        Arthur A. Houghton Jr., a former president of Steuben Glass and an arts patron who had been chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the New York Philharmonic, died yesterday in Venice (Fla.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and maintained homes in Boca Grande, Fla., and Queenstown, Md.
        Mr. Houghton, (pronounced HOE-ten) was a great-grandson of Amory Houghton, who was a founder of Corning Glass Works in 1851, He joined the company after graduating from Harvard University in 1929 and became president of its subsidiary, Steuben Glass, in 1933. In the next 40 years, under his leadership, Steuben would become world renowned.
        It is part of company folklore that about a month after assuming control of the new subsidiary, Mr. Houghton, dissatisfied with its products, spent a Sunday smashing every piece of glass in a company warehouse in Corning, N.Y.
        Armed with short lead pipes and clad in overalls, gloves and goggles, he and John M. Gates, an architect and company vice-president, flailed away at 20,000 items valued at $1 million. With an interest in art that he wanted to combine with business, Mr. Houghton had decided to start from scratch by destroying the old products that were not selling and trying to create a quality glass business that would incorporate imaginative design in technically superb crystal. He said he wanted to ''produce crystal in the highest standards of design, quality and workmanship, glass which would rank in history among man's greatest achievements.''
        'From Ash Can to Museum'
        There was a great effort to improve the design level, and many Steuben pieces did come to be shown in museums in America and abroad.
        ''From ash can to museum in half a generation,'' became the company's slogan. Mr. Houghton hired Sidney Waugh, an award-winning sculptor, to furnish sketches for glass engraving. In the fall of 1934, the first Waugh-designed items - tableware, cocktail sets and a few ornamental pieces -were selling briskly from Steuben's newly rented store on Fifth Avenue in New York City. Over the years, Steuben glass, which was also known for its purity, would grow in prestige.
        Although he kept the title of president, Mr. Houghton interrupted his tenure at Steuben for five years beginning in 1940. He served as curator of rare books at the Library of Congress in Washington until 1942 and then as an officer in the Army Air Corps in World War II for three years.
        Mr. Houghton, who was a member of more than 100 organizations dedicated to education and the arts, served on the board of the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1952 to 1974.
        Led Museum
        While he was president from 1964 to 1969, the museum's charter was redrawn to modernize its administration and curatorial system. He was responsible for the museum's centennial celebration, and he worked to give the museum's staff more of a voice in its operation. He was also active in its thrust to acquire a strong primitive-art collection.
        In 1969, Mr. Hougton became the museum's chairman. He was succeeded as president by C. Douglas Dillon, an investment banker who had been an official in the Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. Mr. Houghton served as chairman until 1972.
        In 1952, the same year he joined the mMuseum board, Mr. Houghton became a member of the board of the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society and served until 1965. He was chairman from 1958 to 1963.
        In 1962, the Philharmonic moved from Carnegie Hall to its new home in the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.
        Helped Create Lincoln Center
        Mr. Houghton was also a former vice chairman of a committee, headed by John D. Rockefeller 3d, to create Lincoln Center.
        When Mr. Hougton was elected president of the Metropolitan Museum, a profile in The New York Times said he was ''one of the most impressive joiners in town.'' It noted, however, that ''he does not join for sociability, status, or solvency,'' but ''because he believes things should be done and because he is interested.''
        Mr. Houghton was a former director of the USX Corporation and the New York Life Insurance Company as well as an honorary trustee of the United States Trust Company of New York.
        He was also a former vice president of the Pierpont Morgan Library, former president of the English-Speaking Union of the United States, a trustee and past chairman of the Cooper Union in New York City, honorary trustee and former chairman of the Parsons School of Design, former vice chairman of the Fund for the Advancement of Education, and former chairman of the Institute of International Education.
        Passion for Rare Books
        Mr. Houghton, whose middle name was Amory, was born on Dec. 12, 1906 in Corning. He was educated in elementary schools there and at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H.
        As an undergraduate at Harvard, he developed an interest in English literature and a passion for rare books.
        After graduation in 1929 he began collecting in earnest, stocking original manuscripts and letters of writers like Samuel Pepys, Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett Browning. His interest prompted him to accept an offer from Archibald MacLeish, Librarian of Congress, to become curator of rare books.
        He donated his Keats collections, one of the largest anywhere, to the Houghton Library at Harvard University, which he had endowed in 1942 as a repository for the university's collections of rare books and manuscripts.
        Mr. Houghton said he believed one of his most significant achievements was the idea, along with that of his cousin, Amory Houghton, a former Ambassador to France, of creating the Corning Glass Center, which opened in 1951 to commemorate the centennial of Corning Incorporated. From that evolved the Corning Museum of Glass, one of the primary museums of its type.
        He also donated his estate, Wye Plantation on Maryland's Eastern Shore, where he had bred Black Angus cattle, to the Aspen Institute, an international public policy study organization. He transferred ownership of the major part of his breeding herd to the University of Maryland .
        In 1960 he gave a 273-acre parcel outside of Corning for use as the site of Corning Community College.
        Three of Mr. Houghton's marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his fourth wife, the former Nina Rodale, a son and two daughters by previous marriages, Arthur 3d of Washington, Sylvia Garrett of Easton, Md., and Hollister Haggard of Aiken, S.C., and nine grandchildren.
      