
       Philip Werner Amram, an expert on international private law and chairman of the United States delegation to the 1972 Hague Conference on International Private Law, died on Friday at the Allendale Nursing Home in Allendale, N.J. after a long illness. He was 90 years old and had lived in Washington more than 40 years.
        Philip Werner Amram, an expert on international private law and chairman of the United States delegation to the 1972 Hague Conference on International Private Law, died on Friday at the Allendale Nursing Home in Allendale, N.J. after a long illness. He was 90 years old and had lived in Washington more than 40 years.
        Mr. Amram was senior partner in the law firm of Amram & Hahn from 1957 until he retired in 1988, president of the United Community Services of Washington, president of La Fondation de l'Ecole Francaise Internationale and a longtime legal adviser to the French Embassy. His honors included commander of the French Legion d'honneur and of the Ordre des Palmes Academiques.
        His expertise was in legal disputes between private citizens of different countries.
        A native of Philadelphia, he was an honors graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where he received a B.A. degree in liberal arts in 1920, and of Pennsylvania State College, where he received a B.S. degree in agriculture in 1922. He graduated cum laude in 1927 from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, where he was editor in chief of the law review, a faculty member from 1929 to 1942 and an associate trustee from 1959 to 1976.
        Expert on Pennsylvania Law
        In World War I, he served in the Army in this country as a second lieutenant and in World War II, he worked with several Federal agencies, including serving as special assistant to the Attorney General.
        Mr. Amram was chairman of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court's committee on civil procedural rules from 1958 to 1982. He was also an expert on Pennsylvania law and wrote several books, including ''Amram's Pennsylvania Common Pleas Practice'' (1970), ''New Federal Rules in Pennsylvania'' (1938) and ''Goodrich-Amram Pennsylvania Procedural Rules Service'' (published annually from 1940 through 1980).
        Surviving are a daughter, Mariana Fitzpatrick, and a son, David, both of Manhattan; a brother, David, of Philadelphia, and five grandchildren.
      