
       Jack Shamash, a major textile importer and business broker, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Jack Shamash, a major textile importer and business broker, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Shamash was president of S. Shamash & Sons, a business that was begun in Baghdad, Iraq, by his grandfather and that has been a major textile importer for more than 100 years. The company is the nation's leading importer of Chinese silk, linen, ramie and rayon fabric.
        The company has offices in New York, Los Angeles, London, Hong Kong and Shanghai and dealings in 20 countries, including those in Eastern Europe. Mr. Shamash recently concluded a deal to import more than three million square yards of cotton materials from the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Shamash was one of the first American executives to enter China after diplomatic relations were re-established and he later helped to develop ties for other businesses there.
        Born in Baghdad on Oct. 3, 1924, Mr. Shamash received his early education there and in England before moving to New York in 1941. He attended Horace Mann School and graduated from the University of Virginia in 1946. He then joined the family business in New York and traveled to China, where the company maintained an office.
        Invitation From the Chinese
        In 1949, after the Communists won the Chinese civil war, the company moved its operations to Japan. Two months after President Richard M. Nixon's trip to China in April 1972, the Chinese Government invited Shamash & Sons to reopen its silk trade. By 1979, the silk trade became commercially important and Shamash extended its purchases to include Chinese linen and other fabrics.
        Because of his successes with the Chinese Government and his ties to provincial leaders, Mr. Shamash helped shepherd American and European business executives through the intricacies of dealing with the Chinese. In 1985, he was involved in a joint venture with a British textile producer and the China Silk Corporation, a state-owned corporation, to set up a dyeing and finishing plant in Dalien in northern China.
        Mr. Shamash also became involved in dealings in food, agriculture, hardware and automobiles in China, spending almost three months a year there. He recently expanded his business interests into Eastern Europe.
        He is survived by his wife, Katherine; two daughters, Helene Beba Shamash of Manhattan and Diane, of Seattle, and a sister, Hilda Shamash of Manhattan.
      