
       Rafael Lorente de No, a researcher on the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system, died of cancer on Monday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 87 years old.
        Rafael Lorente de No, a researcher on the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system, died of cancer on Monday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 87 years old.
        Dr. Lorente's most significant work, said Dr. Hiroshi Asanuma, a brain physiologist at Rockefeller University, was determining the structure and function of the cerebral cortex, the outer layer of the brain that is the seat of sensations, actions, memory and intelligence.
        Dr. Lorente also studied how the nervous system is related to balance and investigated the electrical and chemical basis of nerve functions.
        'An Independent Thinker'
        In 1963, he introduced experimental evidence that every portion of a nerve fiber transmits electrical nerve impulses, a finding contrary to what many physiologists believe.
        ''It is a controversial idea that still hasn't been accepted,'' said Dr. Vicente Honrubia, a director of research in head and neck surgery at the medical school of the University of California at Los Angeles. ''But it is a reflection of this man's character. He was an independent thinker all his life.''
        Dr. Lorente, born in Zaragoza, Spain, studied there and in Sweden, and came to the United States in 1931 to work at the Central Institute for the Deaf in St. Louis.
        Joining U.C.L.A. Faculty
        In 1936 he joined the Rockefeller University in New York, then known as the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1950.
        He retired from the institute in 1972 to become a visiting professor of surgery and anatomy at U.C.L.A.
        In Europe, Dr. Lorente was the student of two Nobel Prize winners, Santiago Ramon y Cajal of the University of Madrid and Robert Barany, in Sweden. Dr. Honrubia said Dr. Lorente published his first paper when he was 17, demonstrating results contrary to the ideas of Professor Cajal. Dr. Lorente joined the Cajal Institute in 1921 and worked there intermittenly for 10 years.
        Dr. Lorente's wife, Hede Birfeld, died in 1959. He is survived by a daughter, Edith Lorente de Rham of Tucson, and a grandson, William de Rham of Philadelphia.
      