
       Robert Breen, whose 1952 co-production of ''Porgy and Bess'' was considered the first postwar United States-Soviet cultural exchange and who helped bring Federal financing to the performing arts, died of Alzheimer's disease on Saturday at Brooklyn Veterans Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Robert Breen, whose 1952 co-production of ''Porgy and Bess'' was considered the first postwar United States-Soviet cultural exchange and who helped bring Federal financing to the performing arts, died of Alzheimer's disease on Saturday at Brooklyn Veterans Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Breen established the first Federal theater in Chicago in 1935 with Works Progress Administration money, but soon concluded that a theater under direct Government control suffered too many bureaucratic constraints. In keeping with European traditions of public support without Government ownership, he helped write plans for the National Theater Foundation, which laid the groundwork for Federal laws that eventually established the National Endowment for the Arts in 1966.
        Performing-Arts Post
        In 1946, he was appointed first executive secretary of the American National Theater and Academy, which was chartered by Congress to assist the performing arts. Mr. Breen helped move productions Off Broadway by persuading theater unions to loosen some restrictions that prevented members from working outside the Broadway theater district.
        In 1950, Mr. Breen persuaded the State Department to support a European tour of American Ballet Theater. It was the first international tour of an American ballet company.
        His greatest international success was as director and co-producer with Blevins Davis of the 1952 critically acclaimed revival of ''Porgy and Bess,'' which toured 29 countries in 4 years.
        A Hamlet in Denmark
        He was also an actor, starring as Hamlet at Elsinore Castle in Denmark during a 1949 production for the Kronberg Festival.
        In an earlier performance of Hamlet while a young actor in Minneapolis, he met his wife, the former Wilva Davis, whose home over the Hudson Theater was headquarters for the American National Theater and Academy during its early years.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Breen is survived by his twin stepsons, Paul Martin of New York City and William Martin of Belen, N.M., and three grandchildren.
      