
       Courtney C. Brown, dean emeritus of Columbia University's Graduate School of Business, died of a stroke Saturday at the Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Courtney C. Brown, dean emeritus of Columbia University's Graduate School of Business, died of a stroke Saturday at the Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Dr. Brown, a forceful administrator, took to his university post 18 years of business experience, including that acquired as chief of economic research for Exxon and four years as a top Government negotiator for obtaining foodstuffs from abroad in World War II.
        As Columbia's business school dean from 1954 to 1969, Dr. Brown introduced a required course on the ethical and philosophical aspects of business and oversaw the construction of the graduate school's present eight-story home, Uris Hall, on the Morningside Heights campus.
        'An Ethic of Commitment'
        Meyer Feldberg, present dean of the school, in a statement yesterday praised Dr. Brown for ''extraordinary contributions to the school'' and ''an ethic of commitment to quality education and research.''
        Dr. Brown was a founder of the Council for Financial Aid to Education, the author or co-author of nine books, a founder and former editor of The Columbia Journal of World Business, a former Columbia professor and trustee and a former chairman of the American Assembly, the major forum on global issues founded by Dwight D. Eisenhower when he was the university's president.
        Courtney Conrades Brown was born on Oct. 15, 1904, in St. Louis, studied at the Staunton Military Academy and Dartmouth College, worked for a decade in New York brokerage houses and banks and then taught and earned a doctorate in economics at Columbia.
        In World War II he was an administrator for the Commodity Credit Corporation, the War Production Board, chief of the War Supply and Resources Divison of the State Department and vice chairman of the President's Famine Emergency Commission.
        A Leading Economist
        Over the next decade Dr. Brown was a leading statistical economist as head of the economic research section of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (now Exxon), one of the largest departments of its kind in private business.
        The books Dr. Brown wrote included ''Liquidity and Instability'' (Columbia University Press, 1940); ''Putting the Corporate Board to Work'' (Macmillan, 1976) and a memoir, ''The Dean Means Business'' (Columbia Graduate School of Business, 1983).
        Dr. Brown had been a public governor of the New York Stock Exchange and a director of CBS, Exxon, the Union Pacific Railroad, the Borden Company, the American Electric Power Company and the Associated Dry Goods Corporation, which operated more than 33 department stores.
        Surviving are his wife, Marjorie; two daughters, Joanne Lyman and Roxanne Warren, both of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Courtney, of Denver; a brother, Alexander, of Concord, N.H., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      