
       Dr. Max L. Som, a surgeon and leader in the field of otolaryngology whose specialty was the treatment of tumors of the head and neck, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan, after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Dr. Max L. Som, a surgeon and leader in the field of otolaryngology whose specialty was the treatment of tumors of the head and neck, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan, after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Dr. Som was clinical professor emeritus of otolaryngology and attending physician in that department at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He completed his residency at Mount Sinai in 1932 and was affiliated with the medical center since then. He retired last year.
        ''He was one of the true pioneers in the development of laryngeal cancer surgery that allowed removal of the cancer while preserving the patient's voice,'' said Dr. Carl E. Silver, a professor of surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and chief of the head and neck service at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. Dr. Silver was a student of Dr. Som.
        Dr. Som was also chief of head and neck surgery at Beth Israel Hospital and founded its division of head and neck surgery in 1939. From the early 1950's to the early 1970's he was chief of the head and neck service at Montefiore. He divided his time among the three medical centers.
        Dr. Som was born in Russia and moved to the United States as a boy. He grew up on the Lower East Side and received his medical degree from Bellevue Medical College in 1930.
        He was an honorary member of the Royal Society of Medicine in London and the recipient of the Semon Lecturer Award, which is given every 10 years in London to the doctor judged most outstanding in a medical specialty. The specialty also changes each decade.
        In 1971 he founded the Max L. Som Scholarship and Fellowship Fund at Mount Sinai Medical School.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Lorraine Farkas; a son, Dr. Peter M. Som of Manhattan; a sister, Fannie Boxer of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      