
       Marco A. Robles, who as President of Panama in the 1960's tried but failed to negotiate new canal treaties, died Saturday in Miami. He was 84 years old and lived in Miami after stepping down.
        Marco A. Robles, who as President of Panama in the 1960's tried but failed to negotiate new canal treaties, died Saturday in Miami. He was 84 years old and lived in Miami after stepping down.
        Mr. Robles, a somber former Justice Minister who held office from 1964 to 1968, also encouraged some taxation and exports. When a boom in the beef export trade caused a beef shortage in Panama, he laconically told Panamanians, ''Eat more chicken and fish.''
        During his presidency, President Lyndon B. Johnson agreed to open talks on new treaties to replace the Panama Canal Treaty of 1903. What was envisaged was one treaty to govern the existing canal and a second one concerning a possible new sea-level canal across the isthmus.
        The first round of those negotiations produced agreement in 1967 on three draft treaties about the two waterways. But Mr. Robles was not able to get political backing for the drafts while he was in office. During the 1968 presidential campaign in Panama, they were fiercely denounced in many quarters, and they were never submitted for ratification by either Government. In the 1970's different new treaties were negotiated and eventually signed.
        Improved Tax Collections
        As President, Mr. Robles failed to carry out various promised reforms, but he did improve tax collecting. Some of his country's largest companies were forced to pay taxes - and even old tax bills - after decades of being able to dodge the taxation system through bribes. He fostered his country's cattle industry by easing restrictions on beef exports.
        After leaving office, he said in an interview that he had ''given an impulse to economic and social development.''
        Marco Antonio Robles was born on Nov. 8, 1905, in the interior town of Aguadulce. He was the son of a judge and the grandson of a rector of Panama University. He went on to study there and at the Sorbonne and held a variety of jobs before rising bank executive.
        He joined the Liberal Party as a young man, served briefly as a parliamentary deputy, and spent three years as Minister of Government and Justice before being elected President, succeeding Roberto F. Chiari.
        Leaves for U.S. Before Coup
        In 1968, he was defeated at the polls by Arnulfo Arias. Hours before Dr. Arias took office, Mr. Robles took a plane to Florida, where he took up residence along with his wife, Pepita, and their daughters Raquel, Lia and Roxanne.
        Ten days later, Dr. Arias was ousted in a military coup d'etat. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera afterward emerged as the military leader of Panama. One of General Torrijos's confidants was Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who became the military leader and was toppled by a United States invasion that began in December 1989. General Noriega is now in prison in Florida awaiting trial on narcotics charges.
      