
       Anna Maximilian Potok, a co-founder of Maximilian Furs, whose luxurious styles won her an international audience, died of heart failure yesterday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 89 years old.
        Anna Maximilian Potok, a co-founder of Maximilian Furs, whose luxurious styles won her an international audience, died of heart failure yesterday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 89 years old.
        Her clients included Nancy Reagan, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Claude Pompidou, Diana Ross and Sophia Loren.
        Mrs. Potok was known for her use of sumptuous furs, especially sable, chinchilla, mink, broadtail and ermine. She developed a technique for working sable so the skins looked fatter and more opulent than those used by other furriers. She also liked combinations of furs, like broadtail with mink or sable. Born in Warsaw
        She was born in Warsaw, where she studied art until the age of 19, when her father died. She then joined her brother, Maximilian Apfelbaum, in his fur salon. They were the third generation of their family in the fur business.
        In 1939 the family fled Poland just before the German invasion and established a fur salon in New York City soon after. It has been at 20 West 57th Street since 1942.
        Among her first customers were Helena Rubinstein, the cosmetics executive, and the Duchess of Windsor, for whom she designed the first fur suit. It was in Russian broadtail.
        Mrs. Potok is also credited with making floor-length fur coats popular for evening wear. Known as a technician in fur, she used mink with the hair brushed upward so that it resembled sable, and she specialized in dyeing furs unnatural colors, like yellow.
        She also made spotted mink coats that looked like leopard and some with feather markings. Maximilian received Coty Awards in 1948 and l965 for making fur fashionable. In Control of Business
        With the death in 1953 of her brother, who had changed his name legally to Michael Maximilian, she assumed control of the business. She also adopted Maximilian as her middle name. Her husband, Leon, an engineer, died in 1965.
        Fifteen years ago Mrs. Potok sold Maximilian to the Arthur Bartfeld Group, dealers in fur skins, with headquarters in London. But she continued as a consultant until six months ago, advising clients on their choice of furs, including some whose mothers and grandmothers had been her clients in Warsaw.
        ''She kept her customers' loyalty because she was a perfectionist,'' said Leonad Hankin, senior adviser to Maximilian. ''Sometimes they came in with a sable coat that was 15 years old, and it looked as if it were bought yesterday.''
        A memorial service is planned for Mrs. Potok's birthday, June 4, when she would have been 90 years old.
        Her son, Andrew, of Plainfield, Vt., and two grandchildren survive.
      