
       Ronnie DeSillers, a 7-year-old Florida boy who received three liver transplants after an outpouring of support from thousands of Americans, including President Reagan, died today while awaiting a fourth transplant.
        Ronnie DeSillers, a 7-year-old Florida boy who received three liver transplants after an outpouring of support from thousands of Americans, including President Reagan, died today while awaiting a fourth transplant.
        Ronnie died at 8:15 P.M. in the intensive care unit at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, his mother, Maria, told reporters at a news conference at the hospital.
        ''Ronnie is going to be in heaven,'' Mrs. DeSillers said. ''God is is going to be with him.''
        She said the boy, her only child, died of cardiac arrest as she, her fiance and her brother stood by.
        ''We kept talking to him and tears would come out of his eyes,'' she said. ''He kept on fighting. He went like a champion. I miss him already.'' Letter From Reagan
        Ronnie's case gained national attention in February when Mr. Reagan sent him a letter and later contributed $1,000 after $4,000 in funds raised for his care by his schoolmates had been stolen from his school in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
        The White House issued a statement tonight extending the Reagans' ''deepest sympathy'' to the boy's family.
        Ronnie's condition had taken a turn for the worse Sunday, a day after he was placed on the waiting list for a fourth transplant. The third liver, which he received April 23, never functioned properly, hospital officials said.
        He received his second liver on April 3 after a viral infection damaged his first transplanted organ and spread to his lungs. $400,000 in Fund Ronnie had insisted on taking his favorite stuffed animals and a framed, signed picture of Mr. Reagan into the operating room for his first transplant on Feb. 24. For the next two operations, he took a framed picture of Jesus Christ that a well-wisher had sent and a stamp depicting a Venezuelan doctor believed to have performed miracles.
        He had appeared to recover quickly from his first transplant, but was placed on the liver transplant waiting list for the second time March 22, however, after the transplanted organ began to fail as a result of the infection.
        On March 27, as his condition deteriorated rapidly, the boy began receiving an experimental drug to control the virus along with another drug that paralyzed him so he would not tamper with the air tube in his windpipe.
        The money raised by his classmates was stolen in early February. By the time the 38-pound boy arrived at Children's Hospital on Feb. 17 with his mother, a former public relations consultant, an estimated $400,000 had been raised.
      