
       Cecil King, chairman of what was believed to be the biggest publishing empire in the world in the 1960's, died at his Dublin home on Friday. He was 86 years old.
        Cecil King, chairman of what was believed to be the biggest publishing empire in the world in the 1960's, died at his Dublin home on Friday. He was 86 years old.
        Dame Ruth Railton said today that her husband died after a long illness, the nature of which she did not disclose.
        Born into one of Britain's great newspaper families, Mr. King built the International Publishing Corporation into a vast conglomerate before he was dismissed in 1968 after calling for the ouster of Prime Minister Harold Wilson.
        He had shocked Britain three weeks earlier with a front-page demand for Mr. Wilson's resignation in his flagship paper, The Daily Mirror, then the country's best-selling daily, with a circulation of five million. 'Interested in Political Power'
        ''I've always been interested in political power,'' he told reporters after his pro-Labor paper turned on the Prime Minister.
        The company's directors said Mr. King was devoting too much time to politics and not enough to International Publishing, which in 1968 controlled more than 250 newspapers and magazines and 20 printing establishments and had interests in newsprint, television and book publishing.
        Mr. King described his dismissal as ''a conspiracy of a particularly squalid kind.''
        He later denied charges that he was planning a military coup against Mr. Wilson because he believed Britain was heading for economic catastrophe. He acknowledged, however, that he had held talks with Lord Mountbatten, the World War II commander and cousin of Queen Elizabeth II, on the need for a temporary head of a new administration. Nephew of Lord Northcliffe
        Cecil Harmsworth King was born on Feb. 20, 1901, and was a nephew of Lord Northcliffe, the creator of The Daily Mail and the pioneer of popular journalism in Britain. The only portrait in Mr. King's office was of Lord Northcliffe.
        In a partial biography, ''Strictly Personal,'' published in 1969, Mr. King made scathing comments about his father, Sir Lucas King, a professor of Oriental languages at Trinity College in Dublin, and his mother, Geraldine Hamilton, who was Lord Northcliffe's sister.
        ''Looking back on my life, I feel as if I were an orphan brought up by step-parents, a stepfather who was completely null and a stepmother who was loveless, capricious and occasionally cruel,'' he wrote.
        He was miserable at school and wrote that the happiest day of his life was when he went to Oxford, because he could at last be alone.
        After graduating with a history degree, Mr. King started his career in journalism on The Daily Record in Scotland. He moved to London and joined The Daily Mirror as an advertising manager. Cites Gift for Foresight
        In 1929, he was made a director of The Daily Mirror, which he built into the largest-circulation paper on Fleet Street. In 1951, he was named chairman of The Daily Mirror and Sunday Pictorial and served as chairman of International Publishing from 1963 to 1968.
        Explaining his success, Mr. King said he had good judgment and a wider general knowledge and greater gift of foresight than anyone he knew.
        After leaving International Publishing, he lectured and wrote articles for The Times of London and The Financial Times and wrote several books, including ''The Cecil King Diary.''
        In 1974, he moved from London to Dublin with Dame Ruth, his second wife. He is also survived by a son and a daughter from his first marriage.
      