
       Robert M. Dowling, a clothing executive who popularized the Sanforizing process in the 1940's and 1950's, died Tuesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86 years old.
        Robert M. Dowling, a clothing executive who popularized the Sanforizing process in the 1940's and 1950's, died Tuesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86 years old.
        From 1947 to 1966, Mr. Dowling was president of the Sanforized Company, a division of Cluett, Peabody & Company, which held the patent for a process of treating cotton fabric to keep it from shrinking more than 1 percent. The process had been invented by Mr. Dowling's boss, Sanford L. Cluett, in 1928.
        From 1954 to 1962, Mr. Dowling was also president of Arrow International, a Cluett, Peabody division that makes Arrow shirts and other products.
        In addition, he was a vice president of Cluett, Peabody. Responsible for Trademarks
        When the patent on the high-speed Sanforizing machine expired in 1949, Mr. Dowling registered terms relating to Sanforizing as trademarks.
        Although that action required mills or manufacturers to pay royalties on fabric they had treated, the amount treated with the Sanforizing process soared. By the time Mr. Dowling retired in 1966, about 3 billion yards were being Sanforized each year.
        By then, the Sanforizing process -involving a machine that hugs cloth against an elastic felt blanket - had been licensed by 600 textile manufacturers in 61 countries.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Dowling oversaw the development of processes to retard shrinkage in fabrics other than cotton - among them wool and rayon. In 1965, he extended the durable-press concept to all-cotton garments when Sanforized licensed a process invented in Switzerland. That process increased the strength and tear resistance of durable-press and wash-and-wear fabrics. Helped Arrow Expand
        As president of Arrow, Mr. Dowling expanded the division's manufacturing operations in Mexico, Colombia, Peru and England, and negotiated licensing to make Arrow available in countries where importing was prohibited.
        Mr. Dowling was born in New York and attended Fordham University and New York University.
        Before joining Cluett, Peabody as advertising manager of the Sanforized division, Mr. Dowling was the sales and advertising manager for the Spool Cotton Company, assistant advertising manager of the Bulova Watch Company and advertising manager for the Franklin Society for Savings.
        He is survived by his wife, Evelyn Lynn; a son, Richard, of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Kathleen Smith of Atlanta, and 11 grandchildren.
      