
       Antony Tudor, one of the foremost choreographers of the century and widely considered the master of the psychological ballet, died last night of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Tudor, choreographer emeritus of the American Ballet Theater at his death, revolutionized ballet with his introduction of strong psychological motivation in choreography, reflecting the influence of Freudian thought.
        Antony Tudor, one of the foremost choreographers of the century and widely considered the master of the psychological ballet, died last night of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Tudor, choreographer emeritus of the American Ballet Theater at his death, revolutionized ballet with his introduction of strong psychological motivation in choreography, reflecting the influence of Freudian thought.
        ''We do Tudor's ballets because we must,'' Mikhail Baryshnikov, artistic director of Ballet Theater, said last year at the ceremony in which Mr. Tudor was presented the Capezio Award. ''Tudor is our conscience.''
        Mr. Tudor was unexcelled at exploring the subtlest of emotional conflicts within the framework of classical ballet. Highly charged plot development and intensely natural character delineation marked the greatest of his works, among them ''Dark Elegies,'' which was his personal favorite, ''Undertow,'' ''Jardin aux Lilas,'' ''Romeo and Juliet'' and ''Pillar of Fire.'' But Mr. Tudor had a streak of ironic, waspish humor, as well, that was responsible for such ballets as ''Gala Performance'' and ''Judgment of Paris.''
        His long-time associate, the dancer Hugh Laing, once observed in an interview in Dance Perspectives, that ''Tudor went further into the depths of human emotion than any choreographer had done before him.'' Childhood Taste for Theater
        Mr. Tudor, whose real name was William Cook, was born in London on April 4, 1909, and acquired a taste for theater as a child when he was taken to a traditional Christmas pantomime. In addition to the popular theater, he saw the London season of Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, and each additional exposure to dance made him more determined to pursue it himself.
        At the age of 16 he obtained a job as a delivery boy at London's Smithfield Market, where he remained for six years and rose to the position of clerk. Without consulting anyone, he began at 19 the daily study of ballet at the end of a workday that started at 6 A.M.
        He studied with the British dancer and teacher Margaret Craske and with Dame Marie Rambert, the Polish-born dancer and teacher who, with Dame Ninette de Valois, founded the modern British ballet movement. The latter farsightedly offered Mr. Tudor a position that freed him from the Smithfield Market. She hired him in 1929 as a general assistant to the Ballet Club. Working with the Rambert dancers, Mr. Tudor was present in the formative days of the British ballet, and in contact with such important figures as Frederick Ashton and the Russian ballerina Tamara Karsavina.
        In 1931, Mr. Tudor choreographed his first ballet, ''Cross Gartered,'' for Dame Marie's Ballet Club. She encouraged him to do more, and he produced his comic ''Lysistrata'' and ''Atalanta of the East.'' Though the latter was a failure, it began an important artistic and personal partnership with Mr. Laing.
        Mr. Tudor persisted, and in 1934 created ''The Planets,'' which was praised for its dramatic cohesion. Two years later he followed with ''Jardin aux Lilas,'' a tale of lovers constricted by Victorian convention. Eight Years for Success
        In 1937 he staged ''Dark Elegies,'' an abstract depiction of grief that, like ''Jardin,'' was to become a Tudor signature piece. In eight years he had moved from total obscurity to a substantial reputation in England. He formed a small company with Mr. Laing and with Agnes de Mille, who was dancing in London at the time, that in 1938 became the London Ballet. At Miss de Mille's suggestion, he and Mr. Laing were invited in 1939 to become charter members of the newly formed Ballet Theater.
        Mr. Tudor was the company's resident choreographer for the next 10 years. In addition to successfully restaging several of his older ballets -''Dark Elegies,'' ''Judgment of Paris'' and ''Gala Performance'' - he began work on new ballets. By the time he left Ballet Theater in 1949 he had presented ''Pillar of Fire'' (1942), ''Romeo and Juliet'' (1942), ''Dim Lustre'' (1943) and ''Undertow'' (1945), works he set to music by such composers as Schoenberg, Delius and Richard Strauss.
        In 1945 he ventured into the Broadway musical theater, doing the choreography first for ''Hollywood Pinafore,'' a George S. Kaufman adaptation of Gilbert and Sullivan, and then for the Lerner and Loewe show ''The Day Before Spring.'' Neither production was very successful. Presence Outweighed Technique
        Mr. Tudor had danced since the start of his choreographic career but his performances were marked more by his powerful stage presence than by exceptional technique. The choreographer was credited with the development of the peculiarly American, expressive dramatic ballerina, most notably Nora Kaye, who created the lead role in ''Pillar of Fire.''
        During the 1950's and 60's Mr. Tudor concentrated on teaching at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School and later in the dance division of the Juilliard School. During these years he created incidental ballets for several companies, but these works lacked his former fire. ''Shadowplay,'' commissioned by Britain's Royal Ballet in 1968, was the first to recapture his former power.
        Mr. Tudor returned to American Ballet Theater as an associate artistic director in 1974 and in the same year was honored with a Dance Magazine award.
        He found choreographing increasingly difficult as he grew older and moved less easily, as he confessed in an interview about ''The Leaves Are Fading,'' created in 1975.
        Like Michel Fokine, the choreographer he most admired, Mr. Tudor spent the bulk of his later years restaging the relatively small output of his early career.
        Mr. Tudor was named choreographer emeritus at Ballet Theater in 1980. His last work, ''Tiller in the Fields,'' created in 1978, was not well received, but Mr. Tudor's ballets have enjoyed renewed popularity in the last six years. ''Dim Lustre'' was revived in 1985, and a revival of ''Pillar of Fire'' is scheduled in the company's spring season, which opens tonight at the Metropolitan Opera House.
        Last year Mr. Tudor was honored with New York City's Handel Medallion, and was a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors and the Capezio Award. With Martha Graham, he was awarded the first Dance/USA National At the Kennedy Center Honors ceremony in Washington, Agnes de Mille said of the choreographer: ''Tudor's work is the most emotionally expressive of any contemporary choreography, and it is universal. In Tokyo, Melbourne, Toronto, Stockholm, London, New York, Detroit, it goes straight to the heart while satisfying the mind.''
      