
       Gus Johnson, who brought National Basketball Association fans to their feet with his backboard-shattering dunk shots, died of brain cancer Tuesday night at Akron City Hospital in Ohio. He was 48 years old.
        Gus Johnson, who brought National Basketball Association fans to their feet with his backboard-shattering dunk shots, died of brain cancer Tuesday night at Akron City Hospital in Ohio. He was 48 years old.
        Considered by many to be the prototype of today's power basketball players, Mr. Johnson, a 6-foot-6-inch, 235-pound forward, played for the Baltimore Bullets, now the Washington Bullets, from 1963 until 1972. He played part of the 1972-73 season with the Phoenix Suns and then ended his career in 1973 with the Indiana Pacers of the American Basketball Association. A five-time N.B.A. All-Star, he averaged 17.1 points and 12.7 rebounds a game during his career.
        ''Gus was probably one of the roughest players I have ever played against,'' Dave DeBusschere, the former Knick forward, said yesterday of his classic matches against Mr. Johnson. ''He was not a dirty player. He was one of the most tenacious competitors ever to play the game.'' Thurmond Was a Teammate
        Gus Johnson Jr. was born on Dec. 13, 1938 in Akron. He attended Akron Central High School, where he played on the same basketball team with Nate Thurmond, who was later to star for the San Francisco Warriors.
        After he was graduated from high school, Mr. Johnson intended to play college basketball at Akron University, but dropped out in 1959 before the basketball season started. After working in Cleveland for the Cuyahoga County treasurer's office, he attended Boise (Idaho) Junior College and played there for one season. In the 1962-63 season, he transferred and played at the University of Idaho. Baltimore drafted him in the second round in 1963.
        ''Gus was very much ahead of his time,'' Earl Monroe, a former teammate, said of Mr. Johnson. ''He was the prototype of today's player -flying through the air for slam dunks, breaking backboards and throwing full-court passes behind his back.'' Bullets Retired His Number
        When the Bullets retired Mr. Johnson's No. 25 last December, Abe Pollin, the owner of the Bullets since 1964, recalled a road game Mr. Johnson played against the St. Louis Hawks.
        ''He shattered the backboards,'' Mr. Pollin said, ''and Ben Kerner, the Hawks' owner, sent me a bill. I tore it up.''
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his father, Gus Sr.; four daughters, Stephanie, Belinda, Julie and Ralyan; a brother, Perry, and four sisters.
        Funeral services are scheduled for Saturday at 1:30 P.M. at the United Baptist Church in Akron.
      