
       Robert M. Lumiansky, a scholar of Medieval English and former president of the American Council of Learned Societies, died of cancer Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Robert M. Lumiansky, a scholar of Medieval English and former president of the American Council of Learned Societies, died of cancer Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        As the longtime head of the New York-based council, Dr. Lumiansky developed a program that provides research support for American scholars in the humanities and initiated scholarly exchanges in the humanities with China and the Soviet Union.
        Dr. Lumiansky's principal contribution as a scholar of Medieval English literature was his critical work on classics by Chaucer and Sir Thomas Malory and their translations in crisp, comprehensible modern English. Professor at N.Y.U.  At the time of his death, Dr. Lumiansky was working on a scholarly edition of ''Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur.'' His reader's edition of the modernized Malory work had just been accepted by the Book of the Month Club.
        Born in Darlington, S.C., Dr. Lumiansky received a bachelor's degree from The Citadel, a master's degree from the University of South Carolina, and a doctorate from the University of North Carolina.
        Dr. Lumiansky began his career as a teacher of English at Walhalla (S.C.) High School, in 1934. He went to Tulane University in 1946 as assistant professor of English, later becoming a professor and department head, then dean of the Tulane Graduate School from 1954 to 1963. He also was a professor of English at Duke University from 1963 to 1965, professor and chairman of the English Department at the University of Pennsylvania, from 1965 to 1973 and professor of English at New York University from 1975 to 1983.
        He was chairman, then president of the Council of Learned Societies, an umbrella group for all scholarly organizations in the humanities, from 1959 to 1982, and was president pro tem, in 1985 and 1986. He was also a past president of Phi Beta Kappa, a member of the national selection committee for the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Corporation, a member of the council of the National Endowment for the Humanities and a past president of the Medieval Academy of America.
        Surviving Dr. Lumiansky is his wife, Janet Schneider.
      