
       Morton Wilfred Bloomfield, a professor of medieval literature at Harvard University, died here today after a short illness. He was 73 years old.
        Morton Wilfred Bloomfield, a professor of medieval literature at Harvard University, died here today after a short illness. He was 73 years old.
        A leader in the field of medieval literature, Professor Bloomfield came to Harvard in 1961 and served as chairman of the English Department from 1968 to 1972, when he became Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of English emeritus.
        Professor Bloomfield's publications, in addition to dozens of articles and reviews, include: ''The Seven Deadly Sins: An Introduction to the History of a Religious Concept''; '' Piers Plowman as a Fourteenth-Century Apocalypse''; ''A Linguistic Introduction to the History of English'' and ''Essays and Explorations: Studies in Language and Literature.'' 'Catholic Love of Literature'
        A colleague, William Alfred, the Abbott Lawrence Lowell Professor of the Humanities at Harvard, called Professor Bloomfield ''one of the glories of the Harvard English Department, a medievalist with a wide and catholic love of literature.''
        Derek Pearsall, a recently appointed professor of English who said he joined the Harvard faculty because of Professor Bloomfield's friendship and scholarship, called him ''one of the truly great medieval scholars.''
        Professor Pearsall, also a medievalist, said, ''His range of learning, both in the Middle Ages and antiquity, was of a kind now rarely found.''
        He continued, ''A single footnote in one of his books, such as the monograph on the Seven Deadly Sins, would be a quarry which other scholars could mine profitably. His book, 'Piers Plowman as a Fourteenth-Century Apocalypse,' published nearly 25 years ago, is a pioneering work of intellectual history and is still unsuperseded.'' Twice a Guggenheim Fellow
        Professor Bloomfield was elected president of the Medieval Academy in 1973. He was a fellow and former vice president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He also was a member of the Executive Council of the Modern Language Association, the Dante Society of America and the International Association of University Professors of English. He was twice a Guggenheim Fellow.
        A native of Montreal who became an American citizen in 1943, Professor Bloomfield attended McGill University and did graduate work at University College of the University of London. He received his Ph.D. in 1939 from the University of Wisconsin.
        Professor Bloomfield began teaching at McGill, and later taught at the University of Wisconsin and at the University of Akron. He joined the faculty of Ohio State University and headed the English department there from 1956 to 1961 before coming to Harvard.
        Professor Bloomfield is survived by his wife, Caroline, of Cambridge; three children, Samuel, Micah Warren and Hanna, and a granddaughter, Rebecca.
      