
       Gustav Oswald Lienhard, who guided the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation as it became the country's richest source of grants in the field of health care, died of cancer Friday at his home. He was 81 years old and lived in Edison, N.J.
        Gustav Oswald Lienhard, who guided the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation as it became the country's richest source of grants in the field of health care, died of cancer Friday at his home. He was 81 years old and lived in Edison, N.J.
        Mr. Lienhard, a native of New York City, joined Johnson & Johnson as an accountant in 1932 and, during 39 years with the pharmaceutical company, became a close associate of Robert Wood Johnson, the company's longtime head. Mr. Johnson named him treasurer and vice chairman of the executive committee in 1957. Mr. Lienhard served as committee chairman from 1963 to 1971.
        Years before his death in 1968, Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Lienhard to head a charity he had established in New Brunswick, N.J., in 1936. A Guiding Force
        As late as 1971, the total staff of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation consisted of one secretary. But at the end of that year, Mr. Johnson's estate propelled it into the billionaire class, a distinction then shared only with the Ford Foundation.
        The Johnson foundation proceeded to dispense more than $50 million annually to help improve health care across the country. By comparison, awards in that field from all private foundations combined were $150 million to $200 million in 1971.
        Mr. Lienhard gave the foundation its direction, placing the emphasis on innovation rather than established programs and practices. In 1986, the final full year of his chairmanship, its endowment had grown to $1.8 billion.
        Pace University, from which he graduated in 1926, honored Mr. Lienhard by naming its School of Nursing in Pleasantville, N.Y., after him. He also was a former trustee of the Foundation of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and the Robert Wood Johnson-University Hospital, the former Middlesex General-University Hospital.
        Mr. Lienhard is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Fannie Sipperley; a daughter, Susan Holmes of Pleasantville; a son, Dr. Gustav E. Lienhard of Hanover, N.H.; five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      