
       Chief Leabua Jonathan, Lesotho's Prime Minister for 20 years before he was ousted in a military coup in January 1986, died today in a hospital in Pretoria, the South African Government reported. He was 72 years old.
        Chief Leabua Jonathan, Lesotho's Prime Minister for 20 years before he was ousted in a military coup in January 1986, died today in a hospital in Pretoria, the South African Government reported. He was 72 years old.
        The Foreign Ministry said Chief Jonathan died of stomach cancer. He flew from Lesotho to South Africa on Friday and reportedly planned to continue on to London for treatment.
        Chief Jonathan was Lesotho's only leader from 1966, when the predominantly black country gained independence from Britain, until the coup.
        In the early years of his Government Chief Jonathan maintained cordial relations with South Africa, which surrounds tiny, mountainous Lesotho and dominates its economy. Blockade by South Africa
        But in late 1985, Pretoria asserted that Lesotho had become a major base for guerrillas of the African National Congress - the most prominent exile group seeking the overthrow of white minority rule in South Africa - and imposed a blockade that drastically reduced the flow of goods in and out of Lesotho. The three-week blockade was lifted after the coup.
        Chief Jonathan angered South Africa in 1982 by deciding to let Communist nations have embassies in Lesotho and by refusing to hand over fugitives from the African National Congress.
        At a news conference just before the coup, Chief Jonathan said he would rather die than hand over congress operatives to Pretoria. He had indicated that he would seek support from Soviet-bloc nations if Britain and the United States, Lesotho allies, did not airlift goods to his blockaded nation. He also accused South Africa of infiltrating his Government and military in order to topple him.
        After the coup, the military government ordered scores of congress members and supporters out of Lesotho and severed ties with former leftist allies. Chief Jonathan and some of his aides were at one point under house arrest. Suspended Constitution
        Lesotho ostensibly had a multiparty system since independence in 1966, but it gradually drifted away from its early principles of government. In 1970, Chief Jonathan suspended the constitution when it appeared he would lose elections.
        Thereafter he ruled autocratically over the country of 1.3 million, repressing opposition parties and establishing a paramilitary youth league. He gradually turned against South Africa, speaking out against apartheid and endorsing the African National Congress.
        Chief Jonathan was born on Oct. 30, 1914. He attended a mission school and later worked in mines in South Africa.
        CHIEF LEABUA JONATHAN, 72, DIES
      