
       Victor D'Amico, a pioneer in art education and the director of the education department at the Museum of Modern Art for more than 30 years, died Monday at the Southampton Nursing Home in Southampton, L.I. He was 82 years old, and lived until recent months at his home in Amagansett, L.I.
        Victor D'Amico, a pioneer in art education and the director of the education department at the Museum of Modern Art for more than 30 years, died Monday at the Southampton Nursing Home in Southampton, L.I. He was 82 years old, and lived until recent months at his home in Amagansett, L.I.
        It was Mr. D'Amico's conviction that art education for children should be based on making art - as opposed to the teaching of rote techniques - and throughout his career he began and taught scores of art workshops, classes and programs based on the idea.
        In 1937, he established the Young People's Gallery at the Museum of Modern Art, which offered art classes and a showplace for the work of high school students. In 1949, he began the People's Art Center at the museum, an enlarged studio arts class for children and adults that continued through 1969, when Mr. D'Amico retired.
        Through numerous other projects, Mr. D'Amico became a national spokesman for art education in America. In 1942, he founded the Committee on Art in American Education and Society, a group initially devoted to promoting the arts during wartime, and that later organized exhibitions and annual conferences on teaching the visual arts. Classes for Veterans
        Immediately after the war, he founded the War Veterans' Art Center, a studio arts class for veterans at the Museum of Modern Art, which lasted until 1948. In 1942, he also began what became an annual event at the museum until 1969 - the Children's Art Carnival, an elaborate environment of children's toys, work stations and art materials where children could make paintings, sculptures and collages.
        Among his many other projects were the Harlem Art Carnival, begun in the late 60's, and the Children's Art Caravan, a mobile version of the art carnival begun in 1965. In 1955, he began summer studio art classes for the museum in a converted Navy barge in Napeague, L.I. Mr. D'Amico continued to teach at the Napeague Institute of Art, or the ''Art Barge,'' after his retirement from the Museum of Modern Art in 1969.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. D'Amico studied fine arts at Cooper Union, the Pratt Institute and Teacher's College of Columbia University between 1920 and 1930. He was head of the art department at the Fieldston Schools from 1926 to 1948, and also taught at Columbia College (1934-42), New York University (1965-72) and Southampton College (1969).
        He was a prolific author on the subject of art education and received numerous honors and awards, including an honorary doctorate of fine arts at the University of Pennsylvania in 1964.
        He is survived by his wife, Mabel, of Amagansett.
      