
       James G. Donovan, who was a United States Representative from Manhattan in the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 88 years old.
        James G. Donovan, who was a United States Representative from Manhattan in the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 88 years old.
        With the backing of both Republican and Democratic Party organizations, Mr. Donovan was elected to the House in 1950. The Congressional district, the 18th, in the East Harlem-Yorkville area, was on the East Side from 59th Street to the Harlem River.
        Mr. Donovan, a former State Senator, was 51 at the time of the election and had been active in Tammany Hall politics for 25 years. He waged a tough campaign against the incumbent, Vito Marcantonio, calling him ''the only member of Congress who consistently followed the Communist line.''
        Mr. Donovan ran as a Republican in 1956, after he was denied redesignation by Tammany Hall. Organization Democrats, including Mayor Robert F. Wagner, contended that his voting record in Congress had revealed him to be more Republican than Democrat. He was defeated by State Senator Alfred E. Santangelo, the Democrat-Liberal candidate and Tammany Hall's choice.
        In 1957, Mr. Donovan became regional director of the Long Island office of the Federal Housing Administration, which had its headquarters in Jamaica, Queens. There he conducted a shake-up of the staff that led to the indictment of a housing inspector by a Federal grand jury on charges of extortion. He later returned to a private law practice with an office at 120 Broadway, retiring in 1965.
        Mr. Donovan was born in Clinton, Mass. He graduated from Harvard University in 1922 and from Columbia University Law School in 1924. His first political appointment was as undersheriff of New York County in 1934, a post he held for seven years.
        He was married to the former Catherine Mostchnick, who died in 1963.
      