
       Tom Abbott, a dancer known for his stagings of Jerome Robbins's musicals and ballets, was found dead in his home in Manhattan last Wednesday. He was 53 years old.
        Tom Abbott, a dancer known for his stagings of Jerome Robbins's musicals and ballets, was found dead in his home in Manhattan last Wednesday. He was 53 years old.
        A spokesman for the New York City Medical Examiner's office said Monday that the determination of the cause of Mr. Abbott's death was awaiting results of tests.
        Mr. Abbott's association with Mr. Robbins began when the choreographer chose Mr. Abbott for the original cast of ''West Side Story'' in 1957. Mr. Abbott also appeared in the 1960 film version of the musical. In 1958 and 1959, he toured Europe with Mr. Robbins's Ballets U.S.A. as assistant to Mr. Robbins and as a dancer. Mr. Abbott also assisted Mr. Robbins on the original Broadway production of ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and later staged the musical in Tel Aviv, London, Amsterdam, Hamburg, West Germany, and Vienna, as well as for the Australian Opera. He choreographed the film version of ''Fiddler'' and staged the 1976-77 and 1981 Broadway revivals.
        Mr. Abbott also restaged the dances for ''West Side Story'' in a City Center revival of the musical in 1964 and assisted in restaging the dances for a 1980 Broadway revival. Born in Texas
        In 1971, Mr. Abbott assisted Mr. Robbins on the revival of his ballet ''The Concert,'' and helped to stage it for the Royal and Australian Ballets. Among other Robbins ballets he restaged were ''Afternoon of a Faun,'' ''Moves,'' ''In G Major'' and, at the 1982 Spoleto Festival, ''New York Export: Opus Jazz.'' Mr. Abbott served as regisseur at the New York City Ballet in 1973.
        Mr. Abbott was born in Waco, Tex., and studied ballet and tap-dancing with Elmer Wheatley, a local teacher. He came to New York City soon after his graduation from high school, enrolling in the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet.
        Mr. Abbott is survived by a brother, Donald, of Beaumont, Tex., and two sisters, Beverly and Pat, of Waco.
      