
       Clint W. Murchison Jr., the scion of a Texas wildcat oil family who created the Dallas Cowboys football team, died Monday night. He was 63 years old.  Mr. Murchison, who had been debilitated by a neurological disorder, was admitted to Gaston Episcopal Hospital here about two weeks ago, said Sandy McCoy, an associate administrator of the hospital.
        Clint W. Murchison Jr., the scion of a Texas wildcat oil family who created the Dallas Cowboys football team, died Monday night. He was 63 years old.  Mr. Murchison, who had been debilitated by a neurological disorder, was admitted to Gaston Episcopal Hospital here about two weeks ago, said Sandy McCoy, an associate administrator of the hospital. She said he died of complications caused by pneumonia.
        Mr. Murchison, whose fortune reached an estimated $250 million in 1984, according to Forbes magazine, was recently beset with financial difficulties brought on by the collapse of the real estate market and global oil prices.
        In February 1985, Mr. Murchison filed for bankruptcy protection in what lawyers believed was one of the nation's largest personal bankruptcy cases. More than $500 million in liabilities have been filed against the Murchison estate in the last two years. The sale of his assets to pay back creditors was to eventually include his 25-acre estate and the home in North Dallas where he was reared. Son of a Texas Wildcatter
        Clint William Murchison Jr. was the last surviving son of Clint Murchison Sr., a Texas wildcatter who rode the oil boom of the 1920's to fame and fortune. Beginning in his native East Texas, the elder Mr. Murchison went on to make millions of dollars in the oil fields near Wichita Falls, Tex. In 1927 he founded a company that was to become the Southern Union Gas Company in Dallas.
        The younger Mr. Murchison attended preparatory school in Lawrenceville, N.J., and was graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Duke University with a degree in electrical engineering while serving in the Marine Corps. After World War II, he earned a master's degree in mathematics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Throughout his business career, Mr. Murchison started and participated in a number of industries, including a taxicab company, publishing, life insurance, restaurants, banks and residential construction.
        After his father's death in 1969, Mr. Murchison and his brother John ran an array of companies described as ''obscure, fantastic and phantasmagorical'' by Philip I. Palmer Jr., a lawyer who handled the Murchison bankruptcy case in 1985. A 'Wheeler-Dealer' Nature
        By some accounts, John was responsible for a conservative viewpoint that helped hold in check the ''wheeler-dealer'' nature of his elder brother.
        A love of football that began in prep school led Mr. Murchison to create the first great professional sports franchise in Dallas, the National Football League's Cowboys, in 1960. After John Murchison's death in 1979, a legal dispute over his estate led to the sale of the Cowboys to H. R. Bright, a Dallas businessman, for $60 million in 1984.
        ''One of his greatest satisfactions besides the Cowboys was Texas Stadium, the home of the Cowboys,'' John D. O'Connell, a longtime friend and business associate, said of Clinton Murchison. ''With his engineering background, he was very much 'hands on' during its construction.''
        In the early 1980's, Mr. Murchison was involved in a number of energy and real estate ventures that eventually eroded his wealth. As deals fell through and development projects around the country failed, the cash needed to sustain the payments on the large loans that he had personally guaranteed at high interest rates was not available. Cheerful and Optimistic
        When three creditors, the Toronto-Dominion Bank, the Kona-Post Corporation and Citicorp, filed a petition to force him into bankruptcy, the fate of his financial empire was sealed.
        Despite Mr. Murchison's financial problems and failing health, friends and business acquaintances said he remained a cheerful and optimistic man.
        Recalling his wit and sense of humor, Mr. Bright said Mr. Murchison once read an uncomplimentary news article about the Dallas Cowboys and himself. The article, by Edwin Pope, a sports editor of The Miami Herald, referred to Mr. Murchison as ''a 130-pound halfback from M.I.T.'' Mr. Bright said Mr. Murchison replied with a letter that read: ''Dear Ed, you are full of prunes. I weigh 142 pounds.'' Mr. Murchison is survived by his second wife, Anne, and a daughter and three sons from his first marriage, Coke Anne Saunders, Clint Murchison 3d, Burk Murchison and Robert Murchison. Also surviving are several grandchildren.
      