
       Blas Roca, a leading theoretician of the Cuban Revolution who led Cuba's prerevolutionary Communist Party, died Saturday in Havana. He was 78 years old.  [ The Cuban Government declared three days of official mourning, Reuters reported from Havana. More than 100,000 mourners stood waiting overnight to view the body of Mr.
        Blas Roca, a leading theoretician of the Cuban Revolution who led Cuba's prerevolutionary Communist Party, died Saturday in Havana. He was 78 years old.  [ The Cuban Government declared three days of official mourning, Reuters reported from Havana. More than 100,000 mourners stood waiting overnight to view the body of Mr. Roca, which lay in state under a huge statue of the Cuban nationalist hero, Jose Marti, in Revolution Square, Reuters said. The Cuban leader, Fidel Castro, was among those who came to pay his respects. ]  Mr. Roca, who was born Francisco Calderio in the eastern Cuban city of Manzanillo, left school at the age of 11 and began shining shoes to help support his poor family, the official Cuban news agency Prensa Latina said in a dispatch monitored in Mexico City. He changed his name to Roca, meaning rock, after he joined the Communist Party in 1929.
        Mr. Roca became active in the labor movement when he organized shoe shiners in Manzanillo in 1929. He was imprisoned three times in the 1930's for his anti-Government activities and later served 12 years in the Cuban legislature.
        Although Mr. Roca and the Communist Party supported Gen. Fulgencio Batista when he was elected in 1940 to a four-year term as President, they later broke with him and opposed a military coup in which he returned to power in 1952.
        Mr. Roca led Cuba's clandestine Communist movement during the dictatorship under which General Batista ruled from 1952 to 1958. The Communists differed initially with Mr. Castro's efforts to bring General Batista down through guerrilla war, but sought to reconcile with Mr. Castro in the final months of the campaign that would bring Mr. Castro to power on Jan. 1, 1959.
        In the years that followed, Mr. Roca moved into a leading role in the evolution of the ruling political party, which was reorganized as the new Communist Party in 1965, and he held important positions in it, from editor of the official party newspaper to member of the ruling directorate.
        Mr. Roca also served from 1976 through 1981 as president of the National Assembly of Popular Power.
        Mr. Roca published numerous books, articles and pamphlets before and after the revolution, including ''The Fundamentals of Socialism in Cuba.''
      