
       Richard Gerson Rosenthal, a New York investment banker, was killed in the crash of a small plane in Westchester County Friday at the age of 45. He was a resident of Briarcliff, N.Y.
        Richard Gerson Rosenthal, a New York investment banker, was killed in the crash of a small plane in Westchester County Friday at the age of 45. He was a resident of Briarcliff, N.Y.
        Mr. Rosenthal, a trustee of Syracuse University, had flown his twin-propeller plane to that city in the morning and was trying to return in fog and drizzle to Westchester County Airport in the afternoon. The recently purchased plane apparently lost power during an instrument-approach, slammed into a home in Pleasantville, N.Y., and touched off explosions and a fire that destroyed the house and injured a 19-year-old occupant.
        Mr. Rosenthal was considered one of Wall Street's rising young achievers and best-known arbitragers. Thus, he caused a stir in 1982 when he resigned as a managing director and member of the executive committee of Salomon Brothers, the investment banking firm.
        He did so within months of the concern's acquisition by the Phibro Corporation, a worldwide commodity trader. Mr. Rosenthal was the first of Salomon's former general partners to depart after the takeover, but he and management insisted that the merger had nothing to do with it.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Rosenthal attended Erasmus High School and Peekskill Military Academy. He worked as an over-the-counter trader and arbitrager for Ira Haupt & Company and L. F. Rothschild Unterberg Towbin Inc. before joining Salomon in 1965.
        In 1969, at the age of 27, he was admitted as a general partner. He became a member of the executive committee in 1977 and was responsible for Salomon's arbitrage and equity department when he left.
        Mr. Rosenthal is survived by his wife, the former Lois Kimmel; three children, Jeremy, David and Sara; his mother, Sally Rosenberg; two sisters, Arlene Kronengold and Ina Balin, and a brother, Richard Balin.
        A funeral service was scheduled for noon today at Congregation Sons of Israel in Briarcliff.
      