
       Vice Adm. Francis C. Denebrink, a Navy veteran of both World Wars and of the Korean War, in which he was responsible for the logistic support of all United States naval forces, died April 8 at Letterman Army General Hospital in San Francisco. He was 90 years old.
        Vice Adm. Francis C. Denebrink, a Navy veteran of both World Wars and of the Korean War, in which he was responsible for the logistic support of all United States naval forces, died April 8 at Letterman Army General Hospital in San Francisco. He was 90 years old.
        In World War II, Admiral Denebrink, in command of the cruiser Brooklyn, which was on the scene when the American transport Wakefield, formerly the passenger liner Manhattan, caught fire Sept. 3, 1942, on her way from Europe to New York. He directed the rescue of all 1,500 men aboard the burning ship.
        In World War I he served on the destroyer Warrington, based at Queenstown, Ireland, and Brest, France. For 12 years after the war he alternated between sea and land duty.
        In 1922 and 1923 he was aide to the Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md. From 1926 to 1928, Admiral Denebrink was in charge of the Navy's press section. He was also a Naval aide at the White House in the Coolidge Administration.
        From 1936 to 1939 he was head of the navigation department at the Naval Academy. His service in 1940 and 1941 as executive officer of the Brooklyn was interrupted by a brief tour of duty with the Office of Strategic Services and as an aide to the Chief of Naval Operations. Promoted to Rear Admiral in 1944
        In 1943 he became chief of staff to the Commander of the Fleet Operational Training Command of the Atlantic Fleet. With his promotion to rear admiral in 1944, he was transferred to the Pacific Fleet as commander of the Fleet Operational Command. He also commanded a cruiser division in the Aleutians and was commander of the Naval forces participating in the American occupation of Japan.
        In 1955 Admiral Denebrink was put in command of supplying the Distant Early Warning Line, a system of radar defenses jointly controlled by the United States and Canada, often referred to as the Dewline. He was in charge of a task force of 126 Navy, Coast Guard and merchant vessels that converged in the Arctic Ocean to supply depots along a 1,500-mile-stretch from Alaska to Greenland.
        He retired in 1956 and had lived since then in San Francisco.
        Admiral Denebrink was born in Chicago and was reared in Sheridan, Wyo., and Long Beach, Calif. He was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy and of the Naval War College.
        He was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, three Legions of Merit and the Navy Marine Corps Medal.
        His wife, the former Fanny McCook, died in 1977. He is survived by a daughter, Joyce Denebrink, who lives in Manhattan.
        Burial will take place 3 P.M. Tuesday at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Va.
        ADM. FRANCIS DENEBRINK, 90
      