
       Ted Tinling, the British-born couturier who parlayed a pair of lace tennis panties into a tour-de-force fashion career that all but overshadowed his reputation as one of the sport's most astute observers and historians, died yesterday at Evelyn Hospital in Cambridge, England.
        Ted Tinling, the British-born couturier who parlayed a pair of lace tennis panties into a tour-de-force fashion career that all but overshadowed his reputation as one of the sport's most astute observers and historians, died yesterday at Evelyn Hospital in Cambridge, England.
        Mr. Tinling was 79 years old and had been under treatment for a respiratory ailment. There are no immediate survivors.
        Mr. Tinling, who was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame at Newport, R.I., in 1986, gave up designing several years ago, but remained a consultant to the women's tour. He had lived and worked in Philadelphia since 1975, but traveled extensively and was a familiar figure at tournaments with his lanky 6-foot-7-inch frame, bald head and often modish apparel.
        Designer to the Stars
        Mr. Tinling translated his personal taste for high fashion into a vision for outfitting the most glamorous figures in women's tennis. Once shunned by Wimbledon authorities because of his eye-catching designs, Mr. Tinling was ultimately welcomed back as a liaison to the players at the All England Club, and eventually presided over a $500,000 annual budget as the official designer for the Virginia Slims tour.
        In a career that spanned seven decades, Mr. Tinling saw his designs worn by dozens of prominent players, from the lace panties worn by Gertrude (Gussy) Moran in 1949, to Billie Jean King, who wore his colorful creation for her much-publicized 1973 ''Battle of the Sexes'' match with Bobby Riggs.
        Mr. Tinling provided the inspiration for the controversial gold lame panties worn by Karol Fageros. He turned Maria Bueno into a rainbow that outraged Wimbledon officials in 1962, designed the panties with 14 rows of lace that Miss Bueno wore in 1965, and formed the form-fitting bodysuit that Anne White wore until it was banned after one Wimbledon round in 1985. He also designed wedding dresses for two other champions, Maureen Connolly and Chris Evert.
        Riviera Childhood
        But Mr. Tinling was celebrated as well for his intimate knowledge of tennis. That knowledge began in his days as a ball boy and an umpire in matches featuring the legendary Suzanne Lenglen on the French Riveria in the 1920's.
        ''He touched so many people,'' said Joseph F. Cullman 3d, the former chairman of the Philip Morris Companies, and a longtime friend of Mr. Tinling. ''He's a great, great force.''
        Theodore Tinling, who was born in Eastbourne, England, on June 23, 1910, grew up on the French Riviera, and plunged into the dazzling world of continental tennis during its golden age.
        Mr. Tinling, who played doubles at Wimbledon four times, was so popular that in 1927, at the age of 17, he was asked to serve as liaison between the tournament committee and the players. From then until he resigned in a huff after being chastised for Miss Moran's panties in 1949, Mr. Tinling, who resumed his role in 1982, served as the tournament's master of ceremonies, escorting every champion and challenger onto the court.
        Needing something to do between tournaments, Mr. Tinling, who had been sewing since he was a toddler, became a dress designer in London in 1921, and was soon operating one of the more successful Mayfair fashion houses.
        Not to Be Thwarted
        After serving as a colonel in British intelligence in World War II, Mr. Tinling designed his first Wimbledon tennis dress, for Joy Gannon of England, in 1947.
        The dress had an unusual feature: a narrow blue and pink hem that went all but unnoticed by tournament officials, but not by the players. There was soon such a clamor for even more colorful outfits that Wimbledon officials ruled that only white could be worn for the 1949 tournament.
        The lace panties Mr. Tinling designed for Miss Moran were his and Miss Moran's answer to the color ban.
        The panties attracted such publicity that many fans who no longer remember who won the coveted Wimbledon singles championships in 1949 (Louise Brough and Ted Schroeder) will never forget what Miss Moran wore.
        Tribute of Navratilova
        With his deep knowledge of tennis, Mr. Tinling was a much-sought-after commentator, in part because of his critical eye and in part because of his ability to turn a phrase.
        In 1987, when Martina Navratilova's skills began to fade, Mr. Tinling explained why she was still worth watching.
        ''We are seeing a sunset,'' he said. ''And sunsets are beautiful. People travel all over the world to see them.''
        Although as a designer he was known chiefly for the flamboyance of his fashions, what especially endeared him to the players he dressed was his practical side and his loyalty to their needs. Appropriately enough, it was Miss Moran who paid him the ultimate compliment.
        ''He's the only one,'' she said, ''who can make armholes that really fit.''
      