
       S. Arthur Dembner, a book publisher and former executive with Newsweek, died on Monday in the City Hospital Center in Elmhurst, Queens, after suffering a heart attack that day while on his way to play tennis. Mr. Dembner, who was 69 years old, lived in Manhattan.
        S. Arthur Dembner, a book publisher and former executive with Newsweek, died on Monday in the City Hospital Center in Elmhurst, Queens, after suffering a heart attack that day while on his way to play tennis. Mr. Dembner, who was 69 years old, lived in Manhattan.
        At his death, Mr. Dembner - widely known as Red - was president of the Red Dembner Enterprises Corporation, a communications company that created and marketed books and magazines. He was also the publisher of Dembner Books, an independent publishing house founded in 1975. It published about 15 general fiction and nonfiction books a year, which were distributed by W. W. Norton & Company.
        Mr. Dembner worked at Time Inc. from 1948 to 1952, after which he and his wife, Anna, took off almost a year to travel in Europe. On their return he joined Newsweek, where he remained until 1975. During that time he held a variety of executive positions, including president of Newsweek Books, circulation director of Newsweek magazine, a senior vice president of Newsweek Inc. and chief executive of the Newsweek Broadcastng Service. He also served on the board and the executive committee of Newsweek Inc.
        The Rude Awakening
        ''When I was at Newsweek, I thought I knew what publishing was about,'' Mr. Dembner said a few years ago, while speaking of Dembner Books. ''I'd push a button and tell somebody to have this or that ready on time. Today I buy the paper, handle production and subsidiary rights, and my wife and I edit the books.''
        Mr. Dembner was born in New York City on Oct. 7, 1920. He graduated from the New School for Social Research and the advanced management program at the Harvard Business School. During World War II, he was a captain in the Army Air Forces in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
        He is the author of a book, ''Modern Circulation'' (McGraw-Hill), and of many articles about the magazine industry. He was on the board of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York and of its affiliate, Partners in Care.
        Mr. Dembner is survived by his wife, of Manhattan; by a son, Stephen, of Rome, and two daughters, Alice, of Boston, and Jane, of Washington. He is also survived by a brother, Alfred, of Brooklyn, and a sister, Lois Jaffee of Sausalito, Calif.
        A memorial service is to be held on Tuesday at 1 P.M. at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64th Street.
        Correction:  May 19, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about S. Arthur Dembner, a book publisher, gave the wrong date for a memorial service. It will be at 1 P.M. on May 29, not this Tuesday, at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64th Street in Manhattan.
      