
       Albert A. Grobe, who retired in 1973 as chief announcer of WQXR, the radio station of The New York Times, after more than three decades with the station, died yesterday at White Plains Hospital after a long illness. He was 81 years old and lived in White Plains.
        Albert A. Grobe, who retired in 1973 as chief announcer of WQXR, the radio station of The New York Times, after more than three decades with the station, died yesterday at White Plains Hospital after a long illness. He was 81 years old and lived in White Plains.
        Al Grobe (pronounced GROW bee) was production manager, head of the news department and news announcer at the station. Following his retirement at 65, he began a second career as a photojournalist. His work appeared in Life magazine and other publications, and won numerous awards.
        A native of Youngstown, Ohio, Mr. Grobe sold shoes by day after his high-school graduation in 1929 and attended Youngstown College at night. He also joined a theater group doing radio plays. Moving to Buffalo in 1932, he became a member of the Jane Keeler Little Theater, which presented radio plays on two stations. The stations offered him an announcer's job. This led to jobs in New York for WINS as sports announcer, chief announcer and, in 1934, news announcer.
        Worked for LaGuardia
        In the following years, Mr. Grobe also worked for the New York State Network and for Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's political campaigns. He joined WQXR in 1940.
        During World War II, Mr. Grobe narrated Navy training films and doubled as a night announcer for the Office of War Information. The WQXR news department won a Peabody Award for its expanded newscasts during the newspaper strike of 1968.
        Mr. Grobe is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Ruben; a daughter, Sheila Rossbach of Kronberg, Germany; two sons, Peter R., of South Salem, N.Y., and Bruce J., of White Plains; two brothers, Howard, of Buffalo, and Harry, of Brentwood, Calif.; a sister, Selma Riddle of Youngstown Ohio; and four grandchildren.
      