
       Elliot Willensky, whose opinionated and exhaustive ''AIA Guide to New York City'' has been a standard architectural reference work for more than two decades, died suddenly Friday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 56 years old.
        Elliot Willensky, whose opinionated and exhaustive ''AIA Guide to New York City'' has been a standard architectural reference work for more than two decades, died suddenly Friday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 56 years old.
        In addition to his post as vice chairman of New York City's Landmarks Preservation Commission, Mr. Willensky was the official Borough Historian of Brooklyn. He also wrote a popular history, ''When Brooklyn Was the World, 1920-1957,'' published in 1986 by Harmony Books.
        Mr. Willensky was discovered unconscious by his companion of 16 years, Margaret Latimer, when she returned in the early evening from her job at the New-York Historical Society. Efforts to revive him, by Ms. Latimer and an Emergency Medical Services crew, proved fruitless. The director of public affairs for the New York City Medical Examiner's office, Ellen Borakove, said yesterday that Mr. Willensky had evidently died of a heart attack.
        Brief and Breezy Descriptions
        At the time of his death, Mr. Willensky was working on two books: ''The Making of Midtown,'' a history of mid-Manhattan, and ''Hidden New York,'' a compilation of tales about the city's utility, communications and transportation systems.
        More than anything else, he is likely to be remembered for the ''AIA Guide,'' which he wrote with Norval White, an architect and educator. Three editions have been published since 1968, when it was brought out by the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects.
        Hundreds of buildings - many of them local landmarks that had never been chronicled in any guide book -were listed in the 464-page inventory. Dates of construction, names of architects and brief and breezy descriptions were combined with pointers about stores and restaurants worth visiting in the neighborhoods.
        By its third edition, published in 1988 by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, the ''AIA Guide'' had grown to 999 pages. A review in The New York Times in 1989 said, ''The authors range through the five boroughs, praising some structures (often with faint damns) and demolishing others with words in a way that the wrecking ball cannot.''
        Abiding Affection for Landmarks
        That same approach often put Mr. Willensky on the firing line at the city's landmarks commission. He was appointed to the 11-member panel in 1979 and became vice chairman in 1985. He made little effort to dilute his criticisms or limit his inquiries. But that inquisitive, impatient and sometimes caustic style was tempered by an abiding affection for the city's social and esthetic landmarks.
        ''It's very rare in politics that there are perfect appointments,'' Anthony M. Tung, a former member of the commission, said yesterday. ''But in the case of Elliot, because of his unmatched and intimate knowledge of the architecture, people, history, neighborhoods and culture of the city, that remarkable thing occurred.''
        A Brooklyn native and graduate of Brooklyn Technical High School, Mr. Willensky held a certificate in architecture from Cooper Union and a master's degree in architecture from Yale.
        From 1963 to 1968, he directed the New York City program for the Cornell University College of Architecture. For the next three years he was deputy administrator and director of design for the New York City Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration.
        In 1971 Mr. Willensky was named director of the High Rock Park environmental education center on Staten Island, a post he held until 1976. He was also executive director of the 34th Street Midtown Association until last fall.
        Mr. Willensky is survived by his former wife, Kathryn Rubeor of Brooklyn, a son, Marc Willensky of Tokyo, and a daughter, Diana Willensky of Brooklyn. Ms. Latimer said yesterday that the funeral would be private but that a memorial service would be held later.
      