
       Sir Reginald Goodall, sometimes called the last link in a chain of legendary Wagnerian conductors stretching back to Wagner himself, died on Saturday in a nursing home near Canterbury, England. He was 84 years old.
        Sir Reginald Goodall, sometimes called the last link in a chain of legendary Wagnerian conductors stretching back to Wagner himself, died on Saturday in a nursing home near Canterbury, England. He was 84 years old.
        The Associated Press, which reported the death from London, said the cause was not announced.
        As he reached the height of his fame in the 1970's, the response of British music critics and operagoers to Sir Reginald's Wagner interpretations was just short of idolatrous. The triumph of his life's work became the Ring Cycle he performed and recorded in Andrew Porter's English translation for the Sadler's Wells Opera.
        Even so, he never became principal conductor of a leading orchestra or opera house.
        Demands and Timidity
        Part of the reason was that companies could not afford the rehearsal time he demanded to bring his understanding of Wagner's total theater to fruition. Another part was his own reclusive, even timid, nature that made him shun the rough-and-ready world of repertory opera.
        Indeed, he spent much of his career coaching, which became apparent when he was given the chance to shape a body of singers and players into a single instrument that would reveal his intentions whole to the audience.
        After working for nearly two decades at Covent Garden, Sir Reginald got his break in 1945 conducting the first performance of Benjamin Britten's ''Peter Grimes,'' which reopened the Sadler's Wells Theater. The following year, he helped in introducing Britten's ''The Rape of Lucretia'' at Glyndebourne.
        He then returned for an additional 15 years as a staff conductor at Covent Garden, the Royal Opera House. He conducted numerous repertory performances. The arrival of Georg Solti at Covent Garden in 1961 again relegated Sir Reginald to a secondary role.
        Move to Sadler's Wells
        But in 1967, Sadler's Wells at the Coliseum - now known as the English National Opera and to Covent Garden what the New York City Opera is to the Metropolitan - invited him to conduct a new production of ''Die Meistersinger.''
        The company had remembered his way with the works he loved by Wagner and Bruckner. And his success with ''Die Meistersinger'' in turn led to his involvement with the Ring.
        It began with one opera a season in 1970 and built to two performances of the entire cycle in 1973. His presentation was the highlight of London's musical offerings that summer. John Rockwell, a music critic of The New York Times, reported that Sir Reginald's success was nothing short of triumphant.
        Critics hailed him as the last surviving successor of such giants as Wilhelm Furtwangler and Hans Knappertsbusch. Sir Reginald's Ring generally was lauded as better than anything Bayreuth had to offer that year.
        The British opera critic Rodney Milnes observed, ''All the conductors with whom he is to be compared are dead.''
        Frail but Commanding
        Sir Reginald led a new, sold-out production of ''Tristan and Isolde'' for the English National Opera in 1985, again in Andrew Porter's translation. Looking old and frail during a single furtive curtain call, Sir Reginald nonetheless conducted ''authoritatively,'' Mr. Rockwell reported.
        Reginald Goodall was born July 13, 1905, in the cathedral town of Lincoln in northeastern England. He studied conducting and the piano at the Royal College of Music and then haunted the musical meccas of Germany and Austria to observe the premier conductors of the day while supporting himself as a piano accompanist.
        His first appointment was as choirmaster and organist at St. Alban's, Holborn, a borough of London. In the late 1930's, he started work as an assistant to Albert Coates at Covent Garden in the late 1930's and with the Royal Choral Society under Malcolm Sargent.
        Sir Reginald, who was knighted in 1985, gave his final peformance at the 1987 Promenade Concerts in London, conducting Act III of ''Parsifal.''
        He was married to Eleanor Gibbs in 1932. There are no known survivors.
      