
       Rocky Graziano, the former middleweight boxing champion whose life was turned into a movie, died of cardiopulmonary failure last night at New York Hospital. He was 71 years old.
        Rocky Graziano, the former middleweight boxing champion whose life was turned into a movie, died of cardiopulmonary failure last night at New York Hospital. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Graziano had suffered a stroke before being hospitalized on April 8, Diana Goldin, public affairs director for the hospital, said.
        In the ring, Mr. Graziano was a primal force. While he lacked finesse and did not trouble himself much with defense, he had a taste for action that made him a crowd pleaser.
        'A Tremendous Competitor'
        ''He was not a great fighter,'' Harry Markson, former president of Madison Square Garden Boxing, said recently, ''but he was a good puncher and a tremendous competitor. He could knock you out with either hand. And when you knocked him down, he always got up. He put on a good show.'' As W. C. Heinz, a reporter who covered Mr. Graziano for The New York Sun, put it in an interview: ''You could louse Rocky up if you wanted him to jab and move. So what you did was get him in shape and turn him loose.''
        With his brawling style, Mr. Graziano compiled a record of 67-10-6 from 1942 to 1952. His three bouts with Tony Zale in the years after World War II are considered classics of brutal action.
        Won Title in 1947
        Zale knocked out Graziano in six rounds in September 1946 - their first battle - but the next time they fought, in July 1947, Graziano stopped Zale in six rounds and became world middleweight champion.
        ''Afterward,'' Mr. Heinz observed, ''he told the press: 'I wanted to kill him. I like him but I wanted to kill him.' Which is so true of the fight instinct.'' Graziano lost his second rematch with Zale in June 1948 on a third-round knockout.
        He would get one more shot at the middleweight title, but that came very late in his career, in April 1952, when Sugar Ray Robinson knocked him out in three rounds. After Graziano lost his next match, a 10-round decision to Chuck Davey, he retired.
        He was elected to the Boxing Hall of Fame in 1971.
        'Original Juveline Delinquents'
        Born Thomas Rocco Barbella, Mr. Graziano grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, the son of a former boxer nicknamed Fighting Nick Bob. Like his boyhood friend, Jake LaMotta, who would also become middleweight champion of the world, the young Mr. Graziano frequently came into conflict with the law.
        ''We were the original juvenile delinquents,'' said Mr. LaMotta. ''Always in fights. Stealing stuff. In fact, we both ended up in reform school in Coxsackie, N.Y., at the same time. I remember Rocky was in quarantine, so I'd set him up with comic books and candy and cigarettes.''
        Mr. Graziano was proud of his ability as a street battler. ''I was the best street fighter in history when I was growing up on the Lower East Side,'' he said. ''Hell, I never lost a street fight. Never. I thought I could lick Jack Dempsey or Joe Louis or anybody. I was fantastic.''
        Butt of His Own Jokes
        Mr. Graziano often made himself and his delinquent childhood the butt of jokes. ''I quit school in the sixth grade because of pneumonia,'' he once said. ''Not because I had it, but because I couldn't spell it. We stole everything that began with an 'a' - a piece of fruit, a bicycle, a watch, anything that was not nailed down.
        ''It took me nine years to get through the fourth grade. When I got into television commercials, I had to take a crash course in reading. I was 32 years old and I couldn't read the cue cards.''
        At age 12, he was arrested for the first time, caught breaking into a subway gum machine. While on probation, he stole a bicycle and was sent for the first of three trips to reform school.
        Learned to Box
        In 1939, a friend, Jack Healy, took him to New York's famous Stillman's Gym to see if he could put his street fighting instincts to use in the ring. When a seasoned pro named Antonio Fernandez beat him up, he swore he would never box again. Two months later, however, he was back in the ring, this time fighting under the name of his sister's boyfriend, Rocky Graziano. He won the the Metropolitan Amateur Athletic Union welterweight championship.
        ''The A.A.U. gave me a medal, which I hocked for $15,'' Mr. Graziano recalled years later. ''Maybe this is not so bad a racket after all, I think. I will give this a shake.''
        Mr. Graziano later served nine months in prison for going A.W.O.L. from the Army. His defection, which grew out of an argument with a superior officer, led to a dishonorable discharge.
        A Popular Figure
        ''As Rocky told it to me,'' said Mr. Heinz, ''this captain came from behind his desk and said something like, 'You think you're so tough?' And when the captain started to remove his jacket, Rocky hit him. He said: 'What was I supposed to do? I belted him, pow, and flattened him and took off.' ''
        Mr. Graziano came to be a figure beloved by the fight crowd and the public. That popularity owed as much to the good humor he showed outside the ring as to the savagery he displayed between the ropes.
        ''He was a natural comedian,'' said Mr. LaMotta. ''Anything he said cracked you up. It's why he was so popular so many years. Everybody loved him 'cause he was such a nice person.''
        Subject of a Film
        In 1956, Mr. Graziano was the subject of a film, ''Somebody Up There Likes Me,'' in which Paul Newman portrayed him. Later, Mr. Graziano caught on as an entertainer, his first major role being as the boyfriend of the comedienne Martha Raye on her television show in the 1950's.
        Mr. Graziano's version of how he landed the role was self-deprecating. ''He told me,'' said Mr. Heinz, ''the producers were sitting around and one of them said why not get a stupid guy like Rocky Graziano? And then one of them said, 'Let's get Graziano.' In fact, though, his personality was so lively that he turned out to be quite good at it. There was a genuine openness about the guy that everybody liked.''
        Mr. Graziano was unchanged by his success as an entertainer. He retained his rough-edged speech down to the ''dems'' and ''dese,'' as Mr. LaMotta put it, and never put on fancy airs. He remained the Rock, ever the loveable rogue.
      