
       Elton H. Rule, a former president of the American Broadcasting Companies whose management pioneered mini-series, made-for-television movies and Monday night football and led the ailing company to network dominance in the late 1970's, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 73 years old.
        Elton H. Rule, a former president of the American Broadcasting Companies whose management pioneered mini-series, made-for-television movies and Monday night football and led the ailing company to network dominance in the late 1970's, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 73 years old.
        As head of ABC's television network in the late 1960's and then as president of ABC from 1972 to 1983, Mr. Rule assembled a talented core of executives, took risks with programming and presided over a period of remarkable growth in ratings, affiliates, revenues and profits.
        In 1968, when the tanned, athletic Los Angeles television executive was summoned to New York to become president of the television network, ABC was such a distant third behind its competitors, NBC and CBS, that some critics called it the fourth network.
        But over the next 15 years, under what colleagues called Mr. Rule's hard-driving leadership, ABC expanded its television affiliates from 146 to 214 stations and its radio affiliates from 365 to 1,800. Company revenues grew from $600 million to $2.7 billion and earnings from $13.5 million to $160 million.
        Mod Squad to Charlie's Angels
        The key to these successes, media experts said, was television programming. One of Mr. Rule's first moves as network president was to sign the Hollywood producer Aaron Spelling to produce programs for ABC, and the string of successes included ''Mod Squad,'' ''Starsky and Hutch,'' ''Love Boat'' and ''Charlie's Angels.''
        In 1969, Mr. Rule pioneered the presentation of made-for-television movies as a regular part of the schedule, billing them as ABC's Movie of the Week. A year later, he made the decision to back Roone Arledge, then head of ABC Sports, to program professional football in prime time, and ABC's Monday Night Football was begun.
        Shortly after being named president and chief operating officer of ABC in 1972, Mr. Rule restructured the broadcasting operations into separate radio and television divisions and an entertainment division that developed ''Barney Miller,'' ''Three's Company,'' ''Happy Days,'' ''Welcome Back Kotter,'' ''Baretta,'' ''Soap'' and other shows.
        In 1974, ABC under Mr. Rule introduced another innovation that was to catch on with viewers, the mini-series, the first of which was ''QB VII.'' Among the most notable for these epics was ''Roots,'' the dramatization of Alex Haley's book on his family origins in Africa.
        Switched Roone Arledge to News
        Mr. Rule substantially increased the budgets for ABC News during the 1970's, named Mr. Arledge head of the division, strengthened the ABC news staff by hiring reporters from major newspapers and expanded the network's foreign news bureaus.
        In 1983, Mr. Rule was named vice chairman of ABC, and when he left the company a year later, Leonard H. Goldenson, ABC's chairman and chief executive, called his tenure ''a period of unequalled growth and popularity for ABC.''
        Yesterday, Mr. Goldenson said: ''He did an outstanding job in any position he held. When he was president of American Broadcasting Companies, we moved into the No. 1 position in large part because of his contribution.''
        And Thomas Murphy, chairman and chief executive officer of ABC's parent company, Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., said: ''Elton was universally admired by all who knew him. He led ABC-TV from the third place network to equality with CBS and NBC. We are all saddened by his passing.''
        Returning to California in 1984, Mr. Rule and I. Martin Pompadur, another former ABC executive, formed two companies that manage radio and television stations and cable television systems.
        Mr. Rule also became co-chairman of the National Center for Film and Video Preservation, a coalition of film and television executives, museum officials and film archivists formed by the American Film Institute and the National Endowment for the Arts to stop the loss of culturally important films and television programs.
        Fought on Okinawa
        Elton Hoerl Rule was born in Stockton, Calif., on June 13, 1916, attended public schools in Stockton and Sacramento and graduated from Sacramento College in 1938. He was an Army officer in World War II, fought on Leyte and Okinawa and was with the American occupation forces in Korea after the surrender of the Japanese.
        After the war, he became a radio station account executive and in 1952 joined the Los Angeles affiliate of ABC's televison network (then KECA-TV, now KABC-TV) as a sales manager. He became general manager of the station in 1960 and was elected a vice president in 1961.
        Mr. Rule was a tall, dark-haired athletic man who loved tennis and golf. He was a charter member of the U.C.L.A. School of Medicine's Board of Visitors and a member of the advisory board and executive committee of the Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York.
        He married Betty Louise Bender in 1942. Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Cindy Dunne and Christie Rule; one son, James, and two grandchildren, all of Los Angeles.
      