
       Dr. Peter Diacoumis Comanduras, a physician who was a co-founder of Medico, a private agency that provided medical care to people of underdeveloped nations, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 years old. Dr. Comanduras, a graduate of Tufts University Medical School and of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, gave up his medical practice in 1958 to become a co-founder, with Dr.
        Dr. Peter Diacoumis Comanduras, a physician who was a co-founder of Medico, a private agency that provided medical care to people of underdeveloped nations, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 years old. Dr. Comanduras, a graduate of Tufts University Medical School and of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, gave up his medical practice in 1958 to become a co-founder, with Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, of Medical International Cooperation, a private, nonprofit agency that sent teams of medical personnel and supplies to underdeveloped nations. Dr. Dooley died of cancer in 1961 at the age of 34.
        The agency, which was originally under the auspices of the International Rescue Committee, sent volunteer doctors, nurses and other medical personnel to countries in Asia, Africa and South America. The teams set up small hospitals and helped train local people to run them.
        Dr. Comanduras served as secretary general of the organization from 1958 to 1962, when it merged with CARE. He then became executive director of pro fessional services for the pharmaceutical company Merck, Sharpe & Dohme International and in 1970 returned to private practice.
        Before co-founding Medico he was an associate professor of clinical medicine at George Washington University Medical School and head of gastrointestinal medicine at George Washington University Hospital.
        He received many awards, including the third annual World Humanitarian Award for promoting international peace in 1965, the Distinguished Service Award from the Medical Society of the District of Columbia in 1964 and the Health Award from the Washington Board of Trade in 1962.
        He is survived by his wife, Sofia; a son, Paul of Vienna, Va.; a daughter, Patricia C. Christopher of Chevy Chase, Md.; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      