
       Luigi Nono, the most prominent of Italy's postwar avant-garde composers, died at his home in Venice on Tuesday. He was 66 years old.
        Luigi Nono, the most prominent of Italy's postwar avant-garde composers, died at his home in Venice on Tuesday. He was 66 years old.
        A family spokesman said that Mr. Nono had recently been hospitalized for a liver ailment.
        Mr. Nono's earliest works were composed in the 12-tone Serial style pioneered by Arnold Schoenberg, whose daughter Nuria married Mr. Nono in 1955. But Mr. Nono also considered his music a vehicle through which social and political issues could be addressed, and his adherence to Serialism lessened as he searched for more specific ways to convey his beliefs.
        A Carnegie Hall Commission
        Mr. Nono had some persuasive adherents among musicians, most notably the pianist Maurizio Pollini and the conductor Claudio Abbado. Carnegie Hall commissioned him to write a work for piano and orchestra as part of the hall's centennial season. The work was to have been performed next February by Mr. Pollini and Pierre Boulez. Spokesmen for the hall and for Mr. Nono's publisher, Ricordi, said yesterday that they did not know whether the work had been completed.
        Mr. Nono was born in Venice on Jan. 29, 1924. He began his musical studies in 1941 at the Venice Conservatory and studied with the composer and musicologist Gian Francesco Malipiero from 1943 to 1945 while also studying law at the University of Padua. In 1946 he began studying with the Italian composer and conductor Bruno Maderna and with the West German conductor Hermann Scherchen, both of whom became early champions of his work.
        Scherchen brought Mr. Nono's music to the attention of the European avant-garde by conducting the ''Variazioni Canoniche'' at the prestigious new music festival in Darmstadt, West Germany, in 1950. Early on, the composer developed a detailed approach to scoring that included such techniques as splitting the syllables of single words among several singers, and applying dynamic markings to virtually every note. He also tended, throughout his career, to write music that made singers and instrumentalists use the extremes of their range.
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Nono's scores began to attract international attention, often as much for their ideological elements as for their musical innovations. A member of the Italian Communist Party, he frequently based his vocal works on Marxist texts and revolutionary writings.
        Castro, Guevera and Hiroshima
        One piece, ''Y Entonces Comprendio'' (1970), included a tape recording of Fidel Castro reading letters of Che Guevara. Other works covered an array of topics and concerns. His first international success, the cantata ''Il Canto Sospeso'' (1956), was based on letters of World War II resistance fighters. He also wrote an anti-nuclear piece, ''Sul Ponte del Hiroshima'' (1962); several protests against the Vietnam war, and several works inspired by his visits to concentration camps.
        Mr. Nono's first opera, ''Intolleranza 1960'' (later revised as ''Intolleranza 1970'') attacks segregation, the atomic bomb and Nazism, and ends with a plea to listeners to prevent civilization from destroying itself. His second opera, ''Al Gran Sole Carico d'Amore'' (1975) is about the Paris Commune of 1871.
        Mr. Nono's most recent works include a third opera, ''Prometeo,'' and ''La Nostalgica-Futura,'' a 45-minute work for violin, tape and electronics.
        The composer is survived by his wife and by two daughters, Silvia, of Rome, and Serena, of Venice and London.
      