
       Tomas Cardinal O Fiaich, the Roman Catholic Primate of All Ireland, died today in France while on a pilgrimage, news organizations quoted his nephew as reporting. He was was 66 years old.
        Tomas Cardinal O Fiaich, the Roman Catholic Primate of All Ireland, died today in France while on a pilgrimage, news organizations quoted his nephew as reporting. He was was 66 years old.
        Cardinal O Fiaich headed the church in both the Republic of Ireland and the British province of Northern Ireland.
        The Press Association, the British domestic news agency, said the Cardinal's nephew, John Fee, announced the death while attending a meeting in Newry, 45 miles south of Belfast.
        The cause of death was not immediately made known.
        In London, the British Broadcasting Corporation said the Cardinal became ill in Lourdes on Tuesday morning while on a pilgrimage there and was taken to a hospital in Toulouse, where he died on Tuesday night. The BBC said it understood that the Cardinal had suffered from a heart condition. A Critic of the I.R.A.  Cardinal O Fiaich (the name is pronounced oh-FEE) was an outspoken critic of the Irish Republican Army's battle to end British rule in the north, and at times of the British administration of the divided province.
        Seeking ways to end the strife there, he took part in meetings with Archbishop Robin Eames of the Church of Ireland, Godfrey Brown, Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, and the Rev. Stanley Wittington, president of the Methodist Church here.
        In Dublin, Prime Minister Charles Haughey of Ireland said he was ''devastated'' and ''deeply grieved'' at the news.
        Cardinal O Fiaich was born on Nov. 3, 1923, in Crossmaglen, Northern Ireland. Ordained a priest in 1948, he taught history at Maynooth College, becoming vice president of that institution in 1970 and president in 1974. He was an authority on early Irish Christianity and the author of many scholarly works.
        In 1977, he was named Archbishop of Armagh in Northern Ireland and Primate of All Ireland, and became Cardinal in 1979.
      