
       Franklin H. Williams, a lawyer, educator and government official who was active in civil rights causes throughout a long career, died of lung cancer on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old.
        Franklin H. Williams, a lawyer, educator and government official who was active in civil rights causes throughout a long career, died of lung cancer on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Williams helped organize the Peace Corps, was a former Ambassador to Ghana and a former vice chairman of the New York City Board of Higher Education. From 1970 until his death he served as president of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, an educational foundation dedicated to advancing opportunities for American minority groups and Africans.
        He was born in Flushing, Queens, and graduated in 1941 from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. After service in World War II in a racially segregated unit of the Army, he passed the New York State bar examination before receiving his law degree from Fordham University in 1945.
        He became an assistant to Thurgood Marshall, then special counsel to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and now an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
        Open Housing and Employment
        Mr. Williams, appearing before the Court, won reversals of death sentences for several black youths who had been convicted of capital crimes. In 1950 he was appointed regional director of the N.A.A.C.P. for nine Western states, Alaska and Hawaii.
        He held the post for nine years, during which his office conducted drives for legislation on minority employment, open housing and other civil rights issues. Under his direction the N.A.A.C.P. won the first successful judgment in a major case involving school desegregation and the removal of restrictive covenants on real estate in California.
        In 1959 Mr. Williams was appointed an assistant attorney general in California. Two years later he joined Sargent Shriver, the first head of the Peace Corps, traveling to nine countries around the world to prepare for the dispatch of American volunteers.
        In 1961, as a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations Economic and Social Council, he won passage of a resolution calling for an international version of the Peace Corps under United Nations auspices.
        'Uses of the University'
        Two years later, he became the first black person to be named United States representative to the Economic and Social Council and was later appointed Ambassador to Ghana. Relations between the United States and Ghana had been poor for years. But Mr. Williams was credited with bringing about substantial improvement during the three years he spent in Accra.
        On his return from Ghana in 1968 Mr. Williams was chosen to head a new Urban Center at Columbia University, which initiated changes in curriculum and issued a major study, ''The Uses of the University.''
        Upon assuming the presidency of the Phelps-Stokes Fund in 1970, Mr. Williams persuaded the organization's board to divest itself of holdings in corporations doing business with South Africa, seven years before the formulation of the Sullivan Principles, which have guided many other American institutions and businesses in such actions.
        Phelps-Stokes had been established in 1911 to improve education for American blacks, American Indians and Africans.
        Mr. Williams was named to the boards of many corporations, including Borden Inc., Consolidated Edison and the American Stock Exchange.
        Helped Found Many Groups
        He was also a board member of several nonprofit groups, among them the Council on Foreign Relations and the American Civil Liberties Union.
        Mr. Williams helped to form a number of professional and cultural groups, including the Association of Black American Ambassadors, the Boys Choir of Harlem, the Caribbean Cultural Center and the Jackie Robinson Foundation.
        In 1987, he was chairman of the New York State Judicial Commission on Minorities, which conducted a study of the treatment of members of minority groups in the state's courts.
        Mr. Williams is survived by his wife, the former Shirley Broyard; two sons, Franklin Jr., of Manhattan, and Paul Anatole, of Lyme, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      