
       Patriarch Pimen, who presided over the Russian Orthodox Church from the repressions of the Brezhnev era to a new era of official tolerance, died today, the church announced. He was 79 years old.
        Patriarch Pimen, who presided over the Russian Orthodox Church from the repressions of the Brezhnev era to a new era of official tolerance, died today, the church announced. He was 79 years old.
        The cause of death was not immediately disclosed.
        His death, after a long illness, set the stage for what is expected to be a protracted succession struggle that many believers hope will give the church its first leader independent of secular authority.
        Patriarch Pimen of Moscow and All Russia, the first patriarch of the church to be educated under the Soviet system, was widely regarded as a compliant supporter of the Kremlin line. He echoed Soviet pronouncements on international relations, and last year was chosen to fill one of the places in the Parliament reserved for the official Soviet Peace Committee.
        Diabetes and Arthritis
        In recent years he was enfeebled by a variety of ailments, reportedly including diabetes and severe arthritis, and isolated from all but an inner circle of the church hierarchy.
        After Mikhail S. Gorbachev began freeing people imprisoned because of their religious beliefs and work, and lifting many of the restraints on the church, the Patriarch came under open criticism from priests and believers for his years of accommodation.
        In March 1988, a group of religious dissidents publicly urged the Patriarch to step down and make way for a more vigorous leader who could press for quicker removal of laws obstructing religion and lead a church revival.
        The group, led by the Rev. Gleb Yakunin, a former religious prisoner, was rebuked by church officials.
        An Interim Leader
        By tradition, the Patriarch's post will be filled by an interim leader until the church can convene a council to elect a successor.
        Church officials said the Patriarch would be buried Sunday at a Trinity-St. Sergius monastery in Zagorsk.
        Sergei M. Izvekov was born on July 23, 1910, in Bogorodsk, now Noginsk, in the Moscow region.
        At age 17 he became a monk, and he spent much of his life in various monasteries. His official biographies show no formal theological training.
        Some church historians believe he spent time in a labor camp in the Stalin years, when imprisonment of the clergy was commonplace. His official biography leaves a gap from 1932 until the end of World War II, and Primate Pimen's own accounts of how he spent those years are contradictory.
        He was consecrated a bishop in 1957, elevated to archbishop in 1960, and the following year was made a permanent member of the governing holy synod.
        He was the only candidate put forward at a council convened in 1971 to name a successor to Patriarch Aleksei.
      