
       George W. Latimer, a former Justice of the Utah Supreme Court who defended Lieut. William L. Calley Jr. in the court-martial arising from the My Lai massacre in Vietnam, died on Wednesday in a Salt Lake City nursing home. He was 89 years old.  In 1946, Mr. Latimer was elected to the Utah Supreme Court, where he served five years until he was appointed by President Harry S.
        George W. Latimer, a former Justice of the Utah Supreme Court who defended Lieut. William L. Calley Jr. in the court-martial arising from the My Lai massacre in Vietnam, died on Wednesday in a Salt Lake City nursing home. He was 89 years old.  In 1946, Mr. Latimer was elected to the Utah Supreme Court, where he served five years until he was appointed by President Harry S. Truman to a 10-year term as an associate judge on the United States Court of Military Appeals in Washington.
        As one of three original members of the court, he was instrumental in interpreting the Uniform Code of Military Justice adopted after World War II.
        In 1969 Mr. Latimer was hired to represent Lieutenant Calley in his court-martial for the slayings in 1968 of more than 22 civilians at the hamlet of My Lai in the Vietnam War.
        Lieutenant Freed From Prison
        He worked on the case from 1969 to 1974. He appealed the lieutenant's murder conviction in 1971 through the military courts into the civil courts until Lieutenant Calley was released from prison by a United States District judge who found violations of his constitutional rights at the military trial.
        In 1965 Mr. Latimer was appointed to the Utah State Board of Pardons, eventually serving as its chairman. In 1976, during his 14-year tenure on the board, he presided over the commutation hearings of Gary M. Gilmore, a murderer who was later executed.
        Mr. Latimer was a 1924 graduate of the University of Utah Law School and practiced with a Salt Lake City firm. In World War II, he spent three years in the South Pacific, rising to colonel in the 40th Infantry Division. He participated in four assault landings and became the division's chief of staff.
        He is survived by his wife, Rhoda; two sons, George Jr. of Bryan, Tex., and Ronald G. of Santa Barbara, Calif.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      