
       Andrei P. Kirilenko, a former member of the Soviet Politburo who was a longtime associate of Leonid I. Brezhnev, has died, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported today. He was 84 years old.
        Andrei P. Kirilenko, a former member of the Soviet Politburo who was a longtime associate of Leonid I. Brezhnev, has died, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported today. He was 84 years old.
        Tass said Mr. Kirilenko died Saturday after a ''grave illness.''
        In the 1970's Mr. Kirilenko was considered a major contender to succeed Mr. Brezhnev as the party leader. But his prospects faded, and he dropped from sight just before Mr. Brezhnev's death and then formally resigned from the Politburo, with rumors attributing the move to ill health or the defection of his son to the West.
        As a secretary of the Communist party Mr. Kirilenko helped supervise the party's day-to-day affairs, with particular attention to heavy industry. He often stood in for Mr. Brezhnev at public functions, and was ranked third or fourth in the party pecking order.
        Mr. Kirilenko was among the 20 or so Government and party officials who came to prominence in or near the Dnepropetrovsk region of the Ukraine, where Mr. Brezhnev was born and began his political career.
        Party Chief in Urals
        In 1962, when Mr. Kirilenko was promoted to full membership in the ruling Presidium (now the Politburo) of the Communist Party, he was the party chief in Sverdlovsk, a city and province in the Urals.
        His promotion was viewed as puzzling by Western analysts, who noted that only a few months earlier, in October 1961, he had been dropped at a party congress from candidate status in the Presidium.
        He was a protege of Nikita S. Khrushchev. When Mr. Khrushchev fell from power in 1964, Mr. Kirilenko retained his high position, presumably because of his longtime association with Mr. Brezhnev.
        By the mid-1970's Mr. Kirilenko had become a principal Brezhnev deputy, and amid recurring reports that Mr. Brezhnev was ill, Mr. Kirilenko was mentioned as a logical successor.
        A Carpenter's Son
        Andrei Pavlovich Kirilenko, the son of a carpenter, was born on Sept. 8, 1906, at Alekseyevka, in what is now the Voronezh region in the Russian Republic. He attended a technical school and then worked as a machinist and electrician in Voronezh and later in the Donets Basin coal mines.
        After joining the Communist Party in 1931 Mr. Kirilenko held a variety of local and regional party posts.He graduated from the Rybinsk Aviation Institute in 1936 and went to work as a design engineer at an aircraft plant in Zaporozhe, in the Ukraine, where he began a political association with Mr. Brezhnev.
        In 1942 he was appointed a representative of the State Defense Committee at an aircraft plant; his job was to expedite production.
        Returning to the Ukraine in 1944, Mr. Kirilenko occupied executive positions in the Ukrainian Communist Party until 1955. These included high positions in the Zaporozhe, Nikolayev, Dnepropetrovsk and Sverdlovsk regional committees. He was first secretary of the Sverdlovsk committee when he was named a full member of the national party Presidium in 1962.
        During his tenure at the highest levels of the party he called on his engineer's experience to run heavy industry in the Soviet Union. He was also regarded as a competent administrator in his relations with provincial party officials, and Mr. Brezhnev was reported to have relied on him heavily.
        Mr. Kirilenko made many speeches over the years in support of detente.
        Correction:  May 16, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
        Because of an editing error, an obituary and a headline yesterday about Andrei P. Kirilenko, a former member of the Soviet Politburo, misstated his age. He was 83.
      