
       Vito P. Battista, an architect from Brooklyn, a former Assemblyman and a colorful perennial candidate for elective office, died yesterday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 81 years old.
        Vito P. Battista, an architect from Brooklyn, a former Assemblyman and a colorful perennial candidate for elective office, died yesterday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Battista was a flamboyant figure on the political scene for many years. He ran unsuccessfully as an independent candidate for mayor six times between 1957 and 1977, as well as for comptroller and councilman.
        His picaresque activities and sharp tongue won him election to the Assembly. He represented the 38th Assembly District in Brooklyn from 1969 to 1975 as a Republican in the heavily Democratic borough.
        He viewed himself as a spokesman for ''the little people'' and ''the oppressed taxpayer.'' A blunt tough-talking campaigner, Mr. Battista often resorted to gimmicks to garner attention. He appeared in a wooden barrel at the Federal Hall National Memorial to denounce high taxes. He arrived at City Hall with a pair of monkeys labeled ''Rocky'' and ''Lindsay'' and on another occasion set up a guillotine to emphasize the effect of government on taxpayers.
        Storming of City Hall
        Parading a camel through lower Manhattan, Mr. Battista warned that if politicians adopted another tax measure its back would break. He railed against welfare, low-income housing, raises for officials and rent controls. He created the United Taxpayers Party to champion the cause of the small landlord and once inspired a group of landlords to storm City Hall to protest continued controls on apartment rents.
        Short, stout and rumpled, Mr. Battista appeared to his critics and those stung by his barbs as a noisy obstructionist. But when he went up against the politicians, armed only with sheafs of papers and envelopes, he spoke out like a giant, a champion of the downtrodden, unafraid to challenge powerful interests.
        He was a Republican State Committeeman for 20 years and was a delegate to five national Republican conventions.
        An architect and planner, Mr. Battista founded and directed the Institute of Design and Construction in downtown Brooklyn. The school trained more than 30,000 students as architects, engineers and draftsmen, as well as other construction jobs. Mr. Battista provided financial help to poor students at the school, which he started in 1947. He had recently established a foundation to provide architectural studies and workshops.
        Designs for Public Buildings
        Born in Bari, Italy, Mr. Battista came here when he was 3. As a teen-ager, he dropped out of high school to help his father run an ice business in the Bushwick area. Mr. Battista then attended evening school and went on to earn an architecture degree from the Carnegie Institute of Technology, now Carnegie-Mellon University, and a master's in architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He also did graduate studies at L'Ecole de Beaux Arts in France, the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York and Columbia University.
        Mr. Battista participated in designing the 1939 World's Fair, the Brooklyn Civic Center, the State Supreme Court Building on Cadman Plaza and many other large public buildings.
        He was president of the Brooklyn Society of Architects and the Brooklyn chapter of the American Institute of Architects and was a director of the New York Society of Architects and the New York Association of Architects.
        Surviving are a son, Vincent, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; a daughter, Sabina Anselmo of Bethpage, L.I.; two sisters, Rose Stebbins and Marie Solmo of Oakville, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      