
       Grant B. Cooper, a criminal lawyer whose clients included Sirhan B. Sirhan, the assassin of Senator Robert F. Kennedy, died of an aortic aneurysm last Thursday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 87 years old.
        Grant B. Cooper, a criminal lawyer whose clients included Sirhan B. Sirhan, the assassin of Senator Robert F. Kennedy, died of an aortic aneurysm last Thursday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 87 years old.
        A trial lawyer for more than six decades, Mr. Cooper continued practicing law from his home until his death, said his wife, Phyllis.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Cooper dropped out of high school and held several jobs before going to California as a hired hand on an oil tanker. He accepted an offer from an uncle who was a lawyer to go into law, and he enrolled at Southwestern University. He graduated in 1926 and was admitted to the California bar the next year.
        As a Los Angeles County prosecutor in the 1940's, Mr. Cooper won death penalties in several murder cases. Later in his career, as a defense lawyer, he opposed capital punishment, saying it did not deter murder.
        Mr. Cooper's most notorious clients were Dr. R. Bernard Finch in 1959 and Mr. Sirhan a decade later.
        In two trials at which he defended Dr. Finch, juries could not agree on a verdict. The doctor was accused with his medical assistant, Carole Tregoff, of killing his wife, Barbara, in a case that attracted national attention. Dr. Finch and Miss Tregoff were convicted at in a third trial in which another lawyer handled the defense.
        Mr. Sirhan, for whom Mr. Cooper headed a three-lawyer defense team, was convicted of the killing of Senator Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles hours after Mr. Kennedy won the California Presidential primary in June 1968. The defense contended that Mr. Sirhan had committed the crime because he was mentally ill.
        He was sentenced to death, but the penalty became a life term in 1972 when the California Supreme Court held the death penalty unconstitutional. Mr. Sirhan is still in prison.  Mr. Cooper was a former president of the Los Angeles County Bar Association and served on the American Bar Association's advisory commitee on fair trial and free press.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cooper is survived by two daughters from a previous marriage and a daughter and two sons from his second marriage.
      