
       Dr. Stanley J. Sarnoff, a cardiologist who was an inventor of emergency medical devices, died of heart failure on Wednesday while undergoing surgery at University Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 72 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Dr. Stanley J. Sarnoff, a cardiologist who was an inventor of emergency medical devices, died of heart failure on Wednesday while undergoing surgery at University Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 72 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Dr. Sarnoff invented an automatic injector that enables a patient to self-administer a drug by removing a safety cap on the device and pressing it against a thigh. He founded Survival Technology Inc., which over the last two decades has produced more than 55 million auto-injectors containing antidotes. They are used by American servicemen and servicewomen as protection against chemical warfare.
        The company also manufactures a small electronic transmitter invented by Dr. Sarnoff that people with heart trouble can use to transmit an electrocardiogram by telephone to an emergency center, where technicians can determine whether the patient is having a heart attack.
        Dr. Sarnoff, chairman and chief exective of Survival Technology, established the Stanley J. Sarnoff Endowment for Cardiovascular Science. It seeks to encourage medical students to enter careers in research by providing fellowships that enable them to take a year away from their studies to conduct research in the laboratories of leading cardiologists.
        Fellow in Surgery
        Dr. Sarnoff, born in Brooklyn, was a graduate of the Peddie School, Princeton College and Johns Hopkins Medical School. He was a fellow in surgery at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, Mount Sinai in New York and Harvard Medical School.
        In 1954 after serving as an associate professor of physiology at the Harvard School of Public Health, he established the laboratory of cardiovascular physiology at the National Heart Institute in Bethesda. During his 11 years as chief of the laboratory, the institute conducted research establishing fundamental concepts underlying the understanding of how the heart and circulatory system work.
        Dr. Jere Mitchell, professor of medicine and head of the cardiopulmonary section at the University of Texas, said yesterday that ''all current concepts of the clinical physiology of circulation and the factors which control the work and the functional performance of the heart were the products of the controlled precise experiments in the laboratories of Dr. Sarnoff.''
        Dr. Sarnoff was the author of more than 200 scientific papers and received more than 40 patents for medical devices. In 1970 he received the Carl J. Wiggers Award from the American Physiology Association.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Lili Charlotte Dreyfus; a daughter, Daniela Bargezi of Basel, Switzerland; a son, Robert, of Woodstock, Vt., and two sisters, the singer Dorothy Sarnoff Raymond of Woodstock, Vt., and Elaine Sarnoff of Manhattan.
        Correction:  May 26, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary yesterday about Dr. Stanley J. Sarnoff, a cardiologist and inventor, misstated his age and the circumstances of his death. He was 73 and died of heart disease. He was not undergoing surgery.
      