
       The event was a memorial, not a jam session, but many of the musicians still straggled in late - not after the fashion, one said, but maybe out of habit.
        The event was a memorial, not a jam session, but many of the musicians still straggled in late - not after the fashion, one said, but maybe out of habit.
        The latest of all was the drummer Max Roach, who scarcely had time to write ''God Bless'' in the book that filled yesterday in Harlem with the names and wishes of Dexter Gordon's old friends.
        The jazz had been played, the spirituals sung, and the last words were being spoken at the Oberia Dempsey Community Center on West 128th Street, where Mr. Gordon, the seminal saxophonist who died of kidney failure on April 25, was being remembered. But Mr. Roach brought memories of a special vintage.
        ''I met him in 1943, when he first came to New York from California and he was playing with Lionel Hampton,'' Mr. Roach said. ''He was a prodigy.'' Younger Musicians' Reverence The drummer, looking younger than his 66 years, stood out even at the back of the auditorium. Few of Mr. Gordon's other contemporaries have survived, and most of those close in age seemed quicker on their instruments than off stage. Among the younger musicians, the reverence was for a man they first came to know on old record albums, one who had already become something of a legend by the time they saw him face to face.
        ''He'd been away a lot, but it was still exciting to play with him because he was Dexter Gordon,'' said Rufus Reid, 46, who was hired as a bassist by Mr. Gordon after he returned in 1977 from many years of living in Europe. ''He was a very imposing kind of person: 6-foot-5, always very clean, and the way he'd walk into a room! We were performing the moment we walked in the room.''
        For each chapter of Mr. Gordon's 67 years - his Los Angeles upbringing, his be-bop pioneering and the later years in New York, the time in Paris that made him a European star and his long artistic exile in Copenhagen - a separate memorial was held yesterday. The director Bertrand Travernier, whose 1986 film about the trials of an exiled jazzman, '' 'Round Midnight,'' won Mr. Gordon an Academy Award nomination for best actor, organized the event in Paris.
        Mr. Gordon's widow and one-time producer, Maxine, spent the afternoon scattering his ashes in the Hudson River.
        No Eulogies, but Jazz
        By his request, Mr. Gordon's friends spared him eulogies. Instead, for the man whose music they said always carried a message, they played.
        At the memorial in Harlem, Slide Hampton led on the trombone. Saxophonists Junior Cooke, Cecil Payne, Bill Smith and Ralph Moore did their friend justice. Ben Riley played the drums, Patty Bown the piano and Terence Blanchard the trumpet. Lou Rawls sang ''Willow Weep for Me.''
        An exception to the no-eulogy dictum was granted to Wesley Brown, a poet who had been working with Mr. Gordon on an unfinished book of memoirs. Mr. Brown recalled one of those nights in 1943, when the young sax man took such a solo on ''Sweet Georgia Brown'' that he strained the composure of the two featured musicians, Lester Young and Ben Webster, and sent the crowd at Minton's Play House on 118th Street into furious debate.
        ''By dawn the verdict was not in,'' Mr. Brown said, ''but the word was out.''
      