
       Chester M. Lewis, retired chief librarian and director of archives for The New York Times and a past president of the Special Libraries Association, died of pneumonia yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after a long bout with throat cancer. He was 76 years old and lived in Port Washington, L
        Chester M. Lewis, retired chief librarian and director of archives for The New York Times and a past president of the Special Libraries Association, died of pneumonia yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after a long bout with throat cancer. He was 76 years old and lived in Port Washington, L.I.
        Mr. Lewis, whose career at The Times spanned 46 years, also served as general services manager of the newspaper.
        With the Special Libraries Association, he was president in 1955 and 1956 and served a term as chairman of the organization's newspapaer division. In 1965 he received the Jack K. Burness Memorial Award for distinguished librarianship, and in 1973 he was elected to the association's Hall of Fame.
        Introduced Use of Microfilming
        Mr. Lewis, a native of Oyster Bay, L.I., joined The Times in 1933 and was an indexer of news articles when he left to serve in the Army's coast artillery in World War II. He returned as assistant manager of The Times's clipping reference section - the ''morgue,'' in newspaper parlance - and in 1947 was appointed chief librarian.
        He introduced microfilming to replace the large bound volumes of back issues of The Times and later became a director of the Microfilming Corporation of America.
        In 1964 he assumed the broader duties of general services manager of The Times and in 1969 was named director of archives, a post he held until his retirement a decade later.
        Mr. Lewis's wife, the former Isabelle Finch, died in 1988. He is survived by a daughter, Holly Levine of Port Washington; a brother, Ralph, of Oyster Bay, and a granddaughter.
      