
       Sayde Brenner Busch, who as Sayde Tisch was a member of the family that founded the chain that is now Loews Hotels, died yesterday at Victoria Hospital in Miami. She was 90 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla. She had been in a coma for 10 days, the family said.
        Sayde Brenner Busch, who as Sayde Tisch was a member of the family that founded the chain that is now Loews Hotels, died yesterday at Victoria Hospital in Miami. She was 90 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla. She had been in a coma for 10 days, the family said.
        In 1935, in the depths of the Depression, she and her husband, Al Tisch, established two boys' camps, Laurel and Lincoln, in the Poconos. Their teen-aged sons, Laurence and Preston, worked summers at the camps. In 1946, the father, then a clothing manufacturer, advanced money for the sons, fresh out of wartime service, to go into business for themselves.
        They bought a resort hotel, Laurel-in-the-Pines, at Lakewood, N.J., where their mother became the hostess. It was the first of many hotels that the Tisch brothers acquired and that their mother helped to run.
        President of Company
        For many years she served as president of Tisch Hotels while the chain included the McAlpin in Manhattan and Traymore and Ambassador in Atlantic City. In Florida, she handled guest relations at the Americana at Bal Harbour when it was owned by her sons.
        Laurence Tisch is now chairman of CBS as well as chairman of the Loews Corporation. Preston Robert Tisch, known as Bob, is chairman of the hotel chain and of the Lorillard Corporation and served as United States Postmaster General in the mid-1980's.
        Al Tisch died in 1960. In 1969, Mrs. Tisch married S. Harry Busch.
        She was an accomplished dancer and ice skater. Until her late 80's, she regularly swam up to two miles a day.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sons, who live in Manhattan, and by 7 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 21, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        Because of a mechanical error, an obituary on Tuesday about Sadye Brenner Busch, a member of the family that owned what became the Loews Hotels chain, omitted information on survivors in some copies. Her first husband, Al Tisch, died in 1960.
        In 1969 Mrs. Tisch married S. Harry
        Busch, who survives.
      