
       Mark A. Costantino, a senior judge in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Staten Island University Hospital after a long illness. Judge Costantino, a lifelong resident of Staten Island, was 70 years old.
        Mark A. Costantino, a senior judge in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Staten Island University Hospital after a long illness. Judge Costantino, a lifelong resident of Staten Island, was 70 years old.
        His family said that the exact cause of death remained undetermined but that he had been ailing since a pulmonary infection cut short a temporary assignment to the Virgin Islands in January.
        Judge Costantino, who some years ago warned lawyers that he would no longer accept any papers spelling his name as Constantino, was named to the Federal bench by President Richard M. Nixon in 1971. He retired as an active judge in 1987 but with senior status that kept him at work much as before.
        Last year he overturned a state law that barred school employees, political officeholders and some party officials from serving on community school boards in New York City. He called the clause overly broad and unconstitutional, infringing on free speech and association as well as on the right to vote and hold office.
        Air Cargo Robbery Case
        Judge Costantino presided at the Lufthansa cargo case in 1979 in which Louis Werner, a former cargo agent, was convicted of helping to plan and carry out an armed robbery. Jewels and cash worth $5.8 million were taken from Lufthansa's cargo terminal at Kennedy International Airport.
        In 1988, he sentenced four Colombian aliens to 20 to 30 years in prison after they were found guilty of conspiring to distribute 30 pounds of cocaine. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ordered a new trial on the ground that Judge Costantino's comments at the sentencing indicated a bias against Colombians that tainted the whole trial.
        The judge denied any prejudice. ''I'm very upset,'' he said. ''I've never been so hurt in my life.''
        Mark Americus Costantino, a Staten Island native, received his degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1947. He served as a special assistant state attorney general until 1951, when he went into private practice.
        Elected to Court in 1956
        He was first elected in 1956 to what was then the City Court and then served on the Civil Court in Staten Island until he moved to the Federal bench. From 1958 until then, he also was an acting State Supreme Court justice in Brooklyn and Queens.
        Perhaps his most trying year as a Federal district judge was 1973, when allegations of wrongdoing produced talk of impeachment in Washington. Government lawyers accused him of being inept in handling certain cases while he accused them of a ''personal animus.'' A judicial council of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit investigated but took no action.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Summers; four sons, Mark T., of Staten Island, Thomas W., of Woodbridge, Va., Dennis J., of Staten Island, and Richard, of Orlando, Fla.; a daughter, Kathryn Ann, of Staten Island; two sisters, Isabelle Delisio and Rose Matera, both of Staten Island, and eight grandchildren.
        A Mass is to be offered tomorrow at 9:30 A.M. at Our Lady Queen of Peace Roman Catholic Church on New Dorp Lane on Staten Island.
      