
       George Nakashima, the master woodworker and designer who sought to capture the noble character of trees in chairs, tables and cabinetry, died on Friday at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85 years old. His family said he died after a brief illness.
        George Nakashima, the master woodworker and designer who sought to capture the noble character of trees in chairs, tables and cabinetry, died on Friday at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85 years old. His family said he died after a brief illness.
        Mr. Nakashima worked with untrimmed slabs of wood, particularly black walnut and redwood, often leaving cracks and holes in the final product.
        For decades, his Bucks County workshop could hardly keep up with the demand for his pieces. He did not advertise or expand even as some of his work fetched over $10,000.
        Mr. Nakashima's work appeared in the Museum of Modern Art and many galleries, including Washington's Renwick Gallery, and was featured in periodical publications as well. He made furnishings for Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's country home in Tarrytown, N.Y., and designed interiors for Columbia University, Mt. Holyoke College and the International Paper Corporation.
        'It Was a Great Tree'
        A seeker after spiritual peace, Mr. Nakashima saw the fruition of a longtime dream on New Year's Eve of 1986 with the dedication of his massive, heart-shaped ''Altar for Peace'' at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan. Cut from a 125-foot English walnut tree from Long Island and weighing three quarters of a ton, the planed and sanded altar was finished with his trademark butterfly rosewood inlays and topped with a bonsai tree.
        ''It was a great tree,'' Mr. Nakashima said. ''Trees with this character should have a special meaning and special use.''
        Last July, he was the first honoree in a series of retrospectives at the American Craft Museum in Manhattan. In a review of the exhibition for The New York Times, Roberta Smith wrote that Mr. Nakashima's designs often ''fuse elements of Japanese folk traditions, Shaker design and the linear elegance of the spindle-backed Windsor chair.''
        ''At other times,'' she wrote, ''the artist favors flamboyant free-edge creations that take furniture design back to nature, and to the point of organic madness. In these instances, table tops, armrests or lamp bases retain the cavities, cracks and dynamic outlines of the trunks or roots they were cut from, exuding a kinetic molten energy more common to the rocks in a Japanese garden.''
        Mr. Nakashima's designs, Ms. Smith said, ''reveal a man who is alternately an artist, philosopher and out-and-out showman of wood.''
        Oddly, as the American Craft Museum celebrated Mr. Nakashima as a ''living national treasure,'' a plumber's blowtorch sparked a fire that destroyed a home in Princeton, N.J., with 111 pieces of his work inside. Only two pieces from the collection survived: a boardroom table and picture frame loaned to the museum for the exhibition by the owners.
        Interned During War
        George Nakashima was born May 24, 1905, in Spokane, Wash. He studied architecture at the University of Washington and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and earned a diploma at the Ecole Americaine des Beaux Arts in Paris.
        Circling the world on a spiritual quest, he lived for two years as a monk in an Indian ashram. Then in 1937 he went to work in the Tokyo office of the American architect Antonin Raymond. While there, he studied Japanese techniques of carpentry, to which he had become increasingly devoted. His parents had emmigrated to the United States from Japan.
        Having returned home and married in 1939, he and his young wife, the former Marion Okajima, and infant girl, Mira, were interned in 1942 in a camp in Idaho as Japanese-Americans. There, he studied with an old Japanese carpenter until Mr. Raymond, who had a farm and office in New Hope, managed to have him released.
        Mr. Nakashima moved to New Hope in 1945 and started a furniture business with $100. He considered his craft an art and only occasionally sold to manufacturers or retailers.
        Most of his work was made to order. While Mr. Nakashima did not frown on the use of machinery, he did most of the delicate shaping and finishing by hand.
        In 1952 he received the gold medal for craftsmanship of the America Institute of Architecture. The award, established in 1915, is the institute's highest honor for work in metals, masonry, textiles and other industrial arts. He was made a Fellow of the American Craft Council in 1979 and was the recipient of a Hazlett Award in 1981.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Nakashima is survived by a son, Kevin K., of New Hope; his daughter, now Mira Yarnall of New Hope, Pa.; one sister, Mary Hokari of Seattle, and four grandchildren.
        A Mass will be held 11 A.M. tomorrow at St. Martin's Church in New Hope.
      