
       Daniel L. Burrows, a businessman and former Democratic leader in Harlem who became the father-in-law and a political mentor of Mayor David N. Dinkins, died of cancer Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 83 years old and lived in Belmar, N.J.
        Daniel L. Burrows, a businessman and former Democratic leader in Harlem who became the father-in-law and a political mentor of Mayor David N. Dinkins, died of cancer Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 83 years old and lived in Belmar, N.J.
        His death was announced Sunday night by the Mayor's office.
        Mr. Burrows, a native of Cape Charles, Va., came to New York as a child. He was a real-estate and insurance broker and helped found the United Mutual Life Insurance Company, whose headquarters are on Lenox Avenue at 125th Street.
        He also entered Democratic politics, becoming one of the first black politicians to gain a foothold in the inner circles of what was then the Tammany party organization in Manhattan. He began as a member of the executive committee of his local Democratic club.
        Memorable Weapons Lesson
        In 1938, he became the second black to be named a state committeeman, representing Manhattan. In 1939, he was elected to the State Assembly, which had seen few black members, and served two terms.
        One of his most memorable feats there happened in early 1939 during a debate on a bill to classify as dangerous weapons those typically used by warring gangsters, including machine guns, sawed-off shotguns and blackjacks. Addressing the chamber in support of the bill, Assemblyman Burrows suddenly brandished a switchblade knife, snapped its catch and swished its four-inch blade through the air.
        News accounts at the time said he made his point convincingly. The demonstration virtually scared the members into dropping all further talk and passing the bill 140 to 0.
        In 1939, Mr. Burrows was also elected Tammany leader of what was then the 19th Assembly District in Harlem; he was only the second black politician to gain a seat on the county executive committee.
        His activities led him to encourage Mr. Dinkins, who married Mr. Burrows's daughter Joyce, to enter the political arena, too.
        Mr. Burrows is also survived by another daughter, Gloria Sparks; a sister, Jeanne Fox; a brother, Jack; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. His wife, Elaine, died in 1975.
        A memorial service will be held at 9:30 A.M. Thursday at the Church of the Intercession, at 550 West 155th Street in Manhattan.
      