
       Rabbi Wolfe Kelman, a major leader of Conservative Judaism for four decades who helped professionalize the American rabbinate and pave the way for the ordination of women as rabbis, died yesterday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Rabbi Wolfe Kelman, a major leader of Conservative Judaism for four decades who helped professionalize the American rabbinate and pave the way for the ordination of women as rabbis, died yesterday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The rabbi died of a melanoma that spread, a colleague, Rabbi Julra Harlow, said.
        Although he never led a congregation, Rabbi Kelman had a great impact on American rabbis. As the executive vice president of the Conservative movement's Rabbinical Assembly, he served as mentor to hundreds of rabbis, guiding them in both spiritual and temporal matters.
        He organized retreats for rabbis away from the pressures of their congregations, where they could study and reflect under the guidance of prominent scholars. He also worked to insure that rabbis had competitive salaries and benefits, like job security, housing, pensions and insurance.
        Modern Hasidic Master
        The descendant of Hasidic rabbis from Poland, Rabbi Kelman functioned as a kind of modern-day Hasidic master, even though he departed from the strict Orthodoxy of his forebears. At his rambling apartment on West End Avenue and at his cramped office at Manhattan's Jewish Theological Seminary, Rabbi Kelman dispensed advice and spiritual counsel to Jews who were exploring or discovering their religious roots.
        He was born in Vienna in 1923 and moved to Canada with his family as a young boy. His father, Rabbi Zvi Yehuda Kelman, died when he was 13, and his mother, left with six children, stepped into the role of community leader in Toronto, offering religious and personal guidance.
        ''It was her example that made me believe women could function as rabbis,'' Rabbi Kelman said many years later. Women were first ordained in Conservative Judaism in 1985.
        During World War II Rabbi Kelman served in the Royal Canadian Air Force, and after the war he was ordained at the Jewish Theological Seminary, where he was a disciple of Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel. In the 1960's he accompanied Rabbi Heschel to Selma, Ala., where they marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and he helped prepared Rabbi Heschel for his meeting with Pope Paul VI.
        A 'Rabbi's Rabbi'
        At the urging of Rabbi Heschel and Dr. Louis Finkelstein, the former chancellor of the seminary, Rabbi Kelman passed up congregational positions to work as a ''rabbi's rabbi'' at the Rabbinical Assembly. When he took the position in 1951, there were 300 Conservative rabbis; when he retired last year there were 1,200.
        Conservative Judaism grew substantially during that period as Jews moved out of cities and into the suburbs, where the 100-year-old movement flourished. Conservative Judaism respects the authority of Halacha, traditional Jewish law, but believes that it can change as it confronts modern issues like technology, feminism and pluralism.
        While the standing of rabbis improved markedly over his years at the Rabbinical Assembly, Rabbi Kelman refused to take credit for being any more than someone who eased the way for others. ''The status of rabbis improved because of the hundreds of good rabbis out there,'' he said.
        Aside from his activities within the Conservative movement, Rabbi Kelman worked to improve ties between the branches of Judaism, between American and Israeli Jewry and between Christians and Jews. Since 1986 he served as the chairman of the American section of the World Jewish Congress. He was also the director of the Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious and Social Studies.
        Rabbi Kelman is survived by his wife, the former Jacqueline Levy; a son, Rabbi Levi, of Jerusalem, and two daughters, Naamah Kelman-Ezrachi of Jerusalem and Abigail Kelman-Barg of Manhattan, and six grandchildren. He also leaves two brothers, Rabbi Abraham Kelman of Brooklyn and Rabbi Joseph Kelman of Toronto and two sisters, Celia Silber of Brooklyn and Claire Goldstein of Binghamton, N.Y.
        A funeral service will be held on Thursday at 1 P.M. at the Feinberg Auditorium, Jewish Theological Seminary at 3080 Broadway.
      