
       Cedric H. Belfrage, an author, editor and translator who was deported from the United States to his native Britain in 1955 after refusing to tell Congressional investigators whether he had ever been a Communist, died yesterday at his home in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was 85 years old.
        Cedric H. Belfrage, an author, editor and translator who was deported from the United States to his native Britain in 1955 after refusing to tell Congressional investigators whether he had ever been a Communist, died yesterday at his home in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was 85 years old.
        His wife, Mary, said he had been in declining health since suffering a stroke nine years ago. But Mr. Belfrage continued writing, winning awards for translations of the Uruguayan writer Eduardo Galeano.
        A self-proclaimed ''independent radical,'' Mr. Belfrage was the editor and co-owner, with James Aronson, of The National Guardian weekly newspaper when he was deported. He was its editor-in-exile until 1967 when both men resigned after a dispute over editorial policy with the weekly's staff, and turned their stock over to the staff.
        Son of a Wealthy Physician
        Mr. Belfrage was born in London, the son of a well-to-do physician. Shortly after World War I, he was sent to Cambridge University with a manservant and what he later called a ''meager'' allowance of two pounds a week.
        He persuaded his father to finance a trip to New York, and he later worked his way to Hollywood, where he found he could sell interviews with movie stars to British magazines.
        He returned to London and became a film critic. In 1933, he took a round-the-world trip, which he chronicled in his first book, ''Away From It All: An Escapologist's Notebook.''
        He returned to Britain, but his view of British life and values remained negative, as he recorded in another autobiographical book, ''They All Hold Swords,'' in 1941.
        World War II Correspondent
        After serving as a correspondent during World War II, he and Mr. Aronson worked in Germany for United States occupation authorities seeking to re-establish German newspapers. They were later accused of having approved Communists to publish newspapers, charges that were the main basis for their subpoenas from the House Committee on Un-American Activities and its counterpart in the Senate.
        In 1948, Mr. Belfrage and Mr. Aronson began publishing The National Guardian in New York as an independent left-wing journal. Five years later, Mr. Belfrage refused to say at Congressional hearings whether he had ever been a Communist or had engaged in espionage against the United States, charges that had been made by a former Communist courier, Elizabeth Bentley.
        In 1954 the Immigration and Nauturalization Service ordered him deported ''on grounds of Communist Party membership.'' After the order was upheld a year later on appeal, he sailed for England rather than remain in detention pending a Supreme Court appeal.
        Returned to United States
        In 1973, he was permitted to visit the United States for a monthlong tour to promote his book ''The American Inquisition,'' published by Bobbs-Merrill. The book described what he called ''massive'' assaults on the Bill of Rights from 1945 to 1960.
        In the early 1980's, he and Mr. Aronson had a rapprochement with The National Guardian, and he resumed writing book reviews and other commentary. He returned to this country almost annually after the 1973 book tour. Mr. Aronson died in 1988.  From 1985 to 1988 Mr. Belfrage published a trilogy, ''Memory of Fire,'' translations of Mr. Galeano. In 1988 the work won a citation from PEN, the international literary organization, and last year it won an award from the Before Columbus Foundation at the American Booksellers Association convention. His translation of Mr. Galeano's ''Book of Embraces'' will be published by W. W. Norton next spring.
        Mr. Belfrage is survived by his fifth wife, the former Mary Bernick, whom he married in 1960; two daughters, Sally, of London, and Anne Zribi of Paris; a son, Nicholas, of London, and five grandchildren.
      