
       Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian whose malleable face, rapier wit and buoyant manner energized scores of plays, films and television shows, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian whose malleable face, rapier wit and buoyant manner energized scores of plays, films and television shows, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Gilford grew up in Brooklyn, learned acting by studying silent films and entering amateur contests, and gained stamina and staying power in nightclubs.
        On the stage and screen, he matched barbs with a fellow Roman slave (Zero Mostel) and neatly executed a turn in drag in ''A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.'' Also on Broadway, he slyly and elegantly romanced Lotte Lenya in ''Cabaret.'' He was nominated for Tony Awards for those two plays.
        Other stage roles were in ''Meet the People'' (1940), ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' (1955), ''Romanoff and Juliet'' (1957), ''Once Upon a Mattress'' (1959), ''The Tenth Man'' (1959), ''No, No, Nanette'' (1971) and ''Sly Fox'' (1976).
        In films, he battled American materialism with Jack Lemmon in ''Save the Tiger'' in 1973, receiving an Oscar nomination as best supporting actor. His other films included ''Enter Laughing'' (1967), ''Catch 22'' (1970), ''Harry and Walter Go to New York'' (1976) and ''Cocoon'' (1985).
        Television appearances included ''The Defenders,'' ''All in the Family,'' ''Rhoda,'' ''Soap,'' ''The Love Boat'' and, on cable in 1982, ''The Very Special Jack Gilford Special.''
        From Commercials to Opera
        The actor was also a long-trusted television guest in American households as a purveyor of Cracker Jack and a frequent favorite of opera devotees for his nonsinging appearances as Frosch, the besotted jailer, in the Metropolitan Opera's widely popular ''Fledermaus.''
        He made his Met debut in 1950 and also played a solo act at the Palace Theater the same year, observing that ''there are not many people who played the Met and the Palace in the same year.''
        Cabaret ''is the most difficult performing art,'' he tolf an interviewer. ''Audiences drink, chat and dance. You may become an intrusion. It's a constant struggle, and if you're rejected, you're standing there all alone.''
        The actor, whose original name was Jacob Gellman, was born on July 25, 1907, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to an immigrant Jewish couple, Aaron, a furrier, and the former Sophie Jackness. They divorced when he was a child, and his mother moved to the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn and made a living by bootlegging.
        ''She made whisky in the kitchen and sold it by the gallon,'' Mr. Gilford said. ''It probably wasn't too bad because even after repeal, customers still came to buy because they trusted it. She got arrested a couple of times and told us it wasn't she, but Prohibition, that was bad.''
        Mr. Gilford's acting career began with mimicry. ''I would do people of my time, John D. Rockefeller Sr., Jimmy Walker, Calvin Coolidge,'' he said. ''I was very influenced by silent movies, particularly Laurel and Hardy, even before they were partners.''
        In 1939, Barney Josephson invited him to perform in his new Manhattan club, Cafe Society, which soon became a legend. ''You could stand at the bar, nurse a beer all night and see the best talents in town,'' he recalled.
        ''It was the first place to let Negroes sit down at tables below 110th Street. Hazel Scott was the lull pianist between acts. A young girl named Helena Horne was the singer before she changed her name to Lena. Billie Holiday was there, too.''
        Unemployed in the Blacklist
        The low point in Mr. Gilford's career occurred in the blacklisting period after World War II. ''One day the phone just stopped ringing,'' he said, ''and I wasn't able to do films or TV for 10 years.'' He generally refused to discuss that period, though in 1956, in a hearing before a subcomittee of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, he invoked the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions as to whether he had ever been a Communist. As late as 1967, he said, ''Some performers still can't get jobs.''
        His first dramatic role, in ''The World of Sholom Aleichem'' in 1953, which was revived on Broadway in 1982, had a single line, which stunned audiences and became associated with him for years. His long-suffering, silent character, told in heaven that he can ask for anything, replies, ''In that case, if it's true, could I have, please, every day, a hot roll with butter?''
        The actor's routines include a day in the life of a golf ball, an impression of a surrealistic movie, pea soup coming to a slow boil, a conductor afflicted by an errant clarinetist and a drowsy subway rider struggling not to sleep past his station. His performances consistently earned acclaim, with Frank Rich of The New York Times concluding in 1982 that ''no Broadway season should lack Jack Gilford.''
        Surviving are his wife, Madeline Lee, a producer and actress; a daughter, Lisa, of Denver, who is the Colorado state chairman of films; two sons, Sam, an actor and jazz anthologist, of Montague, Mass., and Joe, an actor and director, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be private, and a memorial service will be scheduled later.
        Correction:  June 6, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary yesterday about Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian, misstated his age. He was 82, not 81.
      