
       Walter Davis Jr., a be-bop pianist and composer, died of complications from liver and kidney disease on Saturday afternoon at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 57 years old.
        Walter Davis Jr., a be-bop pianist and composer, died of complications from liver and kidney disease on Saturday afternoon at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 57 years old.
        Until he was hospitalized recently, Mr. Davis performed regularly in New York City and in Europe. A fierce, percussive pianist, Mr. Davis was one of the main interpreters of the legacy of the pianist Bud Powell. There was more to Mr. Davis's playing than be-bop. He studied music in India during the 1960's, and his music reflected many of the harmonic and rhythmic innovations that developed in jazz during that decade.
        But much of Mr. Davis's style was formed as a teen-ager on the fertile New York be-bop scene of the late 1940's. He was part of the first generation to fully understand the innovations of Powell, Charlie Parker and Thelonious Monk. In the 1940's, he worked with the singer Babs Gonzales's group Three Bips and a Bop, and by the early 1950's he was appearing with Parker and with the drummer Max Roach's first band.
        A Musician and a Tailor
        In the late 1950's he also worked with the trumpeter Donald Byrd, with whom he went on an eight-day tour of Europe that ended up lasting three months. He also toured the Middle East and South America with the trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie's big band. He played and arranged for the Art Blakey band, all the while recording as a leader for Blue Note records and as a sideman with Jackie McLean, Donald Byrd and others.
        For a while in the 1960's, he left the music world to work as a tailor. But in the 1970's, he returned to music, working with Sonny Rollins, Archie Shepp and Mr. Blakey and performing regularly in New York City as a leader and a sideman. During the last several years Mr. Davis teamed up with old musical partners like Art Taylor, Mr. McLean and Mr. Byrd to perform in France and Italy.
        He appeared at Lincoln Center in a tribute to Powell in August, and he also contributed to the sound track for ''Bird,'' Clint Eastwood's film about Parker's life. Last month, he played in an all-star band at Condon's in Manhattan.
        He is survived by a brother, George, of Utica, N.Y.; four daughters, Evin Lairet of Houston; Alana Schofield of Manhattan; Sareenah Nau-Davis and Aisha Nau-Davis of Spring Valley, N.Y., and a son, Rama.
      