
       Jose Figueres Ferrer, the Costa Rican leader who helped install democracy in his homeland in 1948 and was President three times, died yesterday of a heart attack, his physician said. He was 83 years old and lived in San Jose, the capital.
        Jose Figueres Ferrer, the Costa Rican leader who helped install democracy in his homeland in 1948 and was President three times, died yesterday of a heart attack, his physician said. He was 83 years old and lived in San Jose, the capital.
        As a young planter, Mr. Figueres led an irregular force of 700 men that defeated Communist-led guerrillas and the Costa Rican Army, which had joined forces to keep an elected candidate from taking office as President.
        Mr. Figueres became President in 1948 at the head of a provisional junta that held power for 18 months. During that term he took the unusual step of dissolving his country's army as a precaution against the militarism that has perennially thwarted or undercut democracy in Central America.
        He also oversaw large-scale reforms in his homeland. They included social security measures and nationalization of banks and are widely seen as having given Costa Rican democracy a firm foundation. #834 Reforms Enacted Mr. Figueres did not discount the scope of those measures. ''In a short time, we decreed 834 reforms that completely changed the physiognomy of the country and brought a deeper and more human reolution than that of Cuba,'' he said in a 1981 interview.
        In 1953, he founded the National Liberation Party, a major force in Costa Rican politics. He went on to be elected President for two terms, from 1953 to 1958 and from 1970 to 1974. After stepping down in 1974, he returned to the business world.
        Known as Don Pepe, Mr. Figueres was 5 feet 3 inches tall and was given to airy philosophizing. ''I am what you might call a farmer-philosopher,'' he said to an interviewer in 1973, during his last term. But repeatedly, in times of crisis, he stood out as a man of action. It has been said in Costa Rica that once while President he appeared at an airport carrying a submachine gun to put a stop to a hijacking.
        As a champion of democracy, Mr. Figueres also intrigued against dictators in the Dominican Republic, Venezuela and elsewhere.
        In 1954, during his second term in office, ill feeling between him and the dictator in neighboring Nicaragua, Gen. Anastasio Somoza Garcia, brought on a border war with many casualties.
        Mr. Figueres also opposed the dictatorial regime in pre-Castro Cuba and went so far as to dispatch a planeload of weapons for Cuban insurgents led by the young Fidel Castro. But soon after the 1959 success of the Castro revolution, he and Mr. Figueres had a falling out over the growth of Communist influence on the island.
        Mr. Figueres was friendly toward the United States, and he acknowledged in 1981 that he had received help from the Central Intelligence Agency.
        ''At the time, I was conspiring against the Latin American dictatorships and wanted help from the United States,'' he recalled. ''I was a good friend of Allen Dulles.''
        ''Anyway,'' Mr. Figueres went on, ''the C.I.A.'s Cultural Department helped me finance a magazine and some youth conferences here. But I never participated in espionage. I did beg them not to carry out the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, which was madness, but they ignored me.''
        In 1972, Mr. Figueres, while he was President, invited Robert L. Vesco, the fugitive financier from New Jersey, to make his home in Costa Rica.
        Mr. Vesco not only had a personal and business relationship with Mr. Figueres but he also made contributions to the campaign coffers of both leading political parties in the 1974 elections Mr. Vesco fled Costa Rica after the Presidential elections of 1978 were won by Rodrigo Carazo Odiom, who had vowed to expel him.
        In an interview in 1981, Mr. Figueres said that Mr. Vesco had ''committed many stupidities'' but added:
        ''I have always defended asylum and would protect him aain if I could because I never abandon my friends. The only thing that pains me is that some friends thought I personally benefitted from Vesco.''
        Vesco Invested in Company
        Earlier, in a 1973 interview, Mr. Figueres said that he had been introduced to Mr. Vesco in Costa Rica in 1972 and that Mr. Vesco had then arranged for the investment of $2.15 million in Sociedad Agricola Industrial San Cristobal S.A.
        The financially troubled company was founded by Mr. Figueres and owned by him and others. It had diverse operations in agriculture and its 3,000 employes made it the fourth largest employer in Costa Rica.
        The future President was born on Sept. 25, 1906, the eldest of the four children of a Spanish Catalan doctor and his wife, a teacher, who had immigrated to San Ramon in west-central Costa Rica.
        The son learned English as a schoolboy and went on to become an engineering student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. But he later said that his main education in the years he spent in the United States -from 1922 to 1926 - had come from independent reading in the Boston Public Library.
        He is survived by his wife, Karen, and six children.
      