
       Guy C. McElroy, an art historian who organized a major current show dealing with the portrayal of black people in American art, died on Thursday evening at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. The cause of death was a pulmonary embolism, the coroner's office said. Mr. McElroy was 44 years old and lived in
        Guy C. McElroy, an art historian who organized a major current show dealing with the portrayal of black people in American art, died on Thursday evening at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. The cause of death was a pulmonary embolism, the coroner's office said. Mr. McElroy was 44 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. McElroy became a paraplegic after an automobile accident in New Mexico in 1987, and used a wheelchair. He came to art world attention after organizing ''Facing History: The Black Image in American Art, 1710-1940,'' which opened at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington in January, and is now at the Brooklyn Museum.
        The show documents the many ways in which blacks were perceived -ranging from dependent slaves to dignified heroes - in the work of white and black American artists through the centuries. Mr. McElroy - who also wrote the catalogue - saw it as ''clearly a statement about the politics of black life in American society,'' and he said one of his aims was to examine the ways in which the artists ''reinforced a number of largely restrictive stereotypes of black identity.''
        Praise for the Show
        Writing about the exhibition in The New York Times, Michael Brenson said ''Facing History'' was ''didactic, with an academic feel and many contentious moments,'' but he also praised it as ''a big show, exceptionally illuminating and, after all is said and done, a triumph.''
        Mr. McElroy, who at the time of his death had almost completed work toward a Ph.D. in art history from the University of Maryland, conceived the show in 1986 after studying the work of the 19th-century genre painter William Sidney Mount. Although Mount, one of the first American painters to depict blacks, did so in a ''sympathetic and natural manner,'' Mr. McElroy said, his portrayals ''didn't break from the idea of blacks as minstrels, servants, entertainers, members of the slave class.''
        ''After that, I thought it would be interesting to look at other American artists,'' he continued.
        Born and raised in Fairmont, W.Va., Mr. McElroy earned a master's degree in art history from the University of Cincinnati in 1972, and another in mass communications from Emerson College in Boston in 1975. He was a Rockefeller Fellow in museum studies at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco from 1974 to 1975, and served in assistant curatorial capacities at several museums and public galleries in the West and on the East Coast.
        Preserving Black History
        Mr. McElroy went to Washington in 1978. He spent 10 years as a curator and then an assistant director at the Bethune Museum-Archive in Washington, an organization founded by the black educator Mary McLeod Bethune to study and preserve the history of black women in America.
        From 1986 to 1989, Mr. McElroy also held the post of adjunct curator at the Corcoran, where he worked on the ''Facing History'' show with Jane Livingston, then chief curator and associate director of the Corcoran. At the time of his death, he had completed the first phase of an exhibition on Mrs. Bethune for the Bethune museum.
        Mr. McElroy is survived by his mother, Geraldine McElroy; two sisters, Alisa and Stephanie, and a brother, George, all of Fairmont.
      