
       Irving Wallace, whose popular novels over the past 30 years made him one of the best-read and best-selling 20th-century American authors, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 74 years old and lived in Brentwood, a Los Angeles suburb.
        Irving Wallace, whose popular novels over the past 30 years made him one of the best-read and best-selling 20th-century American authors, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 74 years old and lived in Brentwood, a Los Angeles suburb.
        A spokesman for the hospital said Mr. Wallace had died of pancreatic cancer.
        The author of such entertaining page-turners as ''The Chapman Report,'' ''The Prize'' and ''The Nympho and Other Maniacs,'' Mr. Wallace frequently found his work buffeted by notices emphasizing that his novels were not in the tradition of Faulkner, Fitzgerald and Hemingway.
        But Mr. Wallace's fiction did offer a judicious sprinkling of adultery, rape, kidnapping, old-fashioned romance, suspense, babbitry, alcoholism, intrigue and assorted examples of venality.
        The sales of his 16 novels and 17 works of nonfiction were believed to be well in excess of 120 million copies; he had some 600 million devoted readers.
        Mr. Wallace said recently that his advances of a million dollars or more were a sign ''that somebody out there loves and respects what you do and thinks what you do may make money for them.''
        The important thing was not the money, he said: ''It's that you have approval.''
        Many Found Him Irresistible
        When the critics stopped evaluating him, they all agreed that he was a highly readable - perhaps even addictive - writer with an ability to put sentences and paragraphs together in such a way that many readers found him irresistible.
        James Kelly, writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1962, likened Mr. Wallace to Balzac. Some of Mr. Wallace's most devoted fans may not have read Balzac, but they put ''The Prize,'' the book Mr. Kelly was praising, on the best-seller list for many weeks. The book, a fictional account of doings behind the scenes of the Nobel Prize, was made into a movie in 1963 starring Paul Newman.
        ''Kick Irving Wallace Day is a day set aside by Eastern Establishment critics for high jinks and revelry,'' wrote Richard R. Lingeman in The Times in 1972, when he reviewed another potboiler, ''The Word.'' Mr. Lingeman noted that the critics always went after Mr. Wallace with ''verbal paddles,'' but admitted to being one of ''Irving's people: hooked, like watching casually an obscure late, late movie and finding oneself unable to turn it off until the last plot has flipped its last flop and George Brent is united with Sylvia Sidney and it is 3 o'clock in the morning.''
        Seeking the Sense of It All
        The bulk of Mr. Wallace's fiction made best-seller lists everywhere. At the basis of his success, according to John Leverence in his ''Irving Wallace: A Writer's Profile,'' was the way Mr. Wallace asked the same questions again and again: ''What are the unique and shared problems of male and female in our society? How can an individual endure the social, psychological, physical and financial pressures of modern life and still be whole? Above all, where is the order and sense of it all?''
        Mr. Wallace was asked three years ago how he went about his craft.
        ''It's very unsophisticated,'' he replied, ''and I only work on one book at a time.'' He explained that when he got ideas, he wrote them down in pencil and filed them away. He also said he strongly believed in organizing his novels before he began to write them.
        Irving Wallace was born March 19, 1916, in Chicago, one of two children of Bessie Liss and Alexander Wallace, who had emigrated from Russia when they were in their teens but who met and were married in the United States. Mr. Wallace was raised in Kenosha, Wis., where his father was a clerk in a general store.
        An Ambition From Childhood
        Mr. Wallace always wanted to be a writer - he suggested he got the urge from his mother, who had a great admiration for writers - and he worked as a reporter for both his junior high school and high school newspapers.
        He sold his first article, ''The Horse Laugh,'' to Horse and Jockey Magazine for $5 while he was still in high school.
        He attended the Williams Institute in Berkeley, Calif., where he took creative writing courses, then moved to Los Angeles and began to write full time in 1937. After service in World War II -he wrote scripts for training films - he returned to free-lance magazine work and wrote both fiction and nonfiction for such periodicals as The American Legion Magazine, Liberty, The Saturday Evening Post, Cosmopolitan, Esquire and Collier's.
        In the late 1940's and 50's, unable to make ends meet as a magazine writer, he moved into screenwriting and wrote screenplays for Warner Brothers, 20th Century Fox, Universal, R.K.O. and Paramount. Among the films he worked on were ''Split Second,'' ''Young Wives' Tale'' ''The Holy Grail,'' ''The West Point Story,'' ''Meet Me at the Fair'' and ''The Big Circus.''
        Disliked Hollywood Atmosphere
        Mr. Wallace did not like film writing; he called Hollywood an environment where writers suffered ''indignity, disrespect, disdain.'' In the 1950's he began to devote himself exclusively to books. The first to be published, in 1953, was ''The Fabulous Originals,'' a work of nonfiction about ''extraordinary people who inspired memorable characters of fiction.'' His first novel, ''The Sins of Philip Fleming,'' did not emerge until 1959. The critics ignored it.
        But in 1960, Simon & Schuster published ''The Chapman Report,'' a novel about the impact of a sex survey on some Los Angeles suburban women. Despite some hostile reviews, it became a best seller. It was also a big money maker when it was made into a film in 1962, starring Jane Fonda, Shelley Winters and Efrem Zimbalist Jr. In addition to his own books, Mr. Wallace collaborated with his wife, Sylvia; his daughter, Amy; and his son, David Wallechinsky, who uses the name the family had in Russia. Among their writing projects were ''The People's Almanac,'' ''The People's Almanac No. 2,'' and ''The Book of Lists.''
        Survivors include his wife, daughter and son, and a sister, Esther Biederman of Tarzana, Calif.
        A memorial service is to be held at the Los Angeles offices of the Directors Guild of America on Thursday at 1 P.M.
        SOME SCOFFED, BUT THEY KEPT READING
        Irving Wallace sold his first magazine article while he was in high school and went on to become one of the most widely read authors in the world. These are some of his best-known works:
        Fiction
        The Chapman Report 1960
        The Prize 1962
        The Three Sirens 1963
        The Man 1964
        The Plot 1967
        The Seven Minutes 1969
        The Nympho and Other Maniacs 1971
        The Word 1972
        The Fan Club 1974
        The Pigeon Project 1979
        The Second Lady 1980
        The Almighty 1982
        The Miracle 1984
        The Seventh Secret 1986
        The Celestial Bed 1987
        The Guest of Honor 1989
        Nonfiction
        The Fabulous Originals 1955
        The Fabulous Showman: The Life and Times of P. T. Barnum 1959
        The Sunday Gentleman 1965
        The Two (with Amy Wallace) 1978
        The People's Almanac Presents the Book of Lists No. 2 editor (with Sylvia Wallace, Amy Wallace and David Wallechinsky), 1980
        Screenplays
        The West Point Story (with John Monks Jr. and Charles Hoffman), 1950
        Meet Me at the Fair 1953
        Desert Legion (with Lewis Meltzer) 1953
        Split Second (with William Bowers) 1953
        Gun Fury (with Roy Huggins) 1953
        Bad for Each Other (with Horace McCoy) 1954
        Jump Into Hell 1955
        The Burning Hills 1956
        Bombers, B-52 1957
        The Big Circus (with Irwin Allen and Charles Bennett), 1959
      