
       Mollie Moon, the founder and full-time volunteer president of the National Urban League Guild, died on Sunday at her home in Long Island City, Queens. Her death, at the age of 82, apparently resulted from a heart attack, a family spokesman said.
        Mollie Moon, the founder and full-time volunteer president of the National Urban League Guild, died on Sunday at her home in Long Island City, Queens. Her death, at the age of 82, apparently resulted from a heart attack, a family spokesman said.
        Mrs. Moon founded the guild in 1942 to raise funds for Urban League programs for racial equality and amity. Under Mrs. Moon, the guild has grown to almost 30,000 volunteers in 80 guilds around the country.
        She received many awards for dedicated and innovative volunteerism. A recent one, from President Bush, was presented by Mayor David N. Dinkins at City Hall on April 23 at the start of National Volunteer Week.
        Mrs. Moon was a leading figure in Manhattan in moving benefits for blacks below 110th Street. A major guild event, over which she presided for nearly half a century, was the annual Beaux-Arts Ball. It began at the old Savoy Ballroom in Harlem in 1942 and moved downtown in 1948.
        'Broke the Color Barrier'
        In that year, Winthrop Rockefeller, then a league board member, arranged to have the ball held in the Rainbow Room atop Rockefeller Center. ''The invitations went out in both our names,'' Mrs. Moon recalled last March. ''Nobody was going to buck the landlord. That's how we broke the color barrier.'' The benefit moved to the Waldorf-Astoria in 1965 and has been there ever since.
        Among the positions held by Mrs. Moon were secretary of the Urban League's board of trustees and a board member of the Dance Theater of Harlem, the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing and the Coalition of 100 Black Women.
        She was a former adviser on programs of the Food and Drug Administration and she led fund-raising efforts in recent years for the Henry Lee Moon Civil Rights Library at the headquarters of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Baltimore. Mr. Moon, whom she married in 1938, was the public relations director of the N.A.A.C.P. from 1948 to 1974. He died in 1985.  Mollie Lewis Moon, a native of Hattiesburg, Miss., was a graduate in pharmacy from Meharry Medical College. She also studied at Teachers College of Columbia University, the New School and the University of Berlin.
        She is survived by her daughter, Mollie Moon Elliot of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
        A funeral Mass will be celebrated on Saturday at 9:30 A.M. at St. Ignatius Loyola Roman Catholic Church, at 84th Street and Park Avenue. Substitutions Help Italy Advance Fast-acting lineup adjustments proved too much for Uruguay. By GEORGE VECSEY ROME, June 25 - Azeglio Vicini kept tinkering with the lineup tonight with immediate and gratifying results for the host country as Italy beat Uruguay, 2-0, to advance to the quarterfinals of the World Cup.
        Six minutes into the second half, the Italian coach sent in Aldo Serena for the first time in four games. The change promptly opened up a serious offensive spurt by the blue-shirted home team.
        Serena soon made the assisting pass on a goal by Salvatore Schillaci, then headed in a free kick from Giuseppe Giannini to put the game out of reach.
        Italy has not given up a goal in four games and will next play Ireland here in Olympic Stadium on Saturday night.
        Relentlessness Worked
        ''It was a difficult game, but we kept attacking,'' said Vicini, who is coaching the national team, known as the Azzurri, or the Blues, in the World Cup for the first time.
        The 57-year-old Vicini played nearly 250 games in the Italian first division, but was never selected for the national team. He has worked for the Italian Soccer Federation since 1974 as an assistant to Enzo Bearzot, who fashioned the defensive strategy that contributed to Italy's 1982 World Cup title.
        However, Italy turned stale after 1982, and Vicini took over after the 1986 World Cup, opening up the offense.
        With most Italian players occupied with the league season until May, Vicini continued to experiment with his offense right through the first round.
        Time for a Change
        Tonight, Italy clearly outplayed Uruguay in the first half. But the game was still a scoreless time at halftime. Early in the second half, Vicini sent in Serena, a 29-year-old striker who plays for Inter of Milan during the league season. Serena had not played in the first three games.
        ''It was important to try something else,'' Vicini said later.
        When complimented on his moves, Vicini said: ''This was not the first time my substitutions improved the team, but that is normal in a stressful game. You say to yourself, 'If this doesn't work out, I can make changes.' ''
        Tonight, the changes surely worked out. As soon as Serena went in for Nicola Berti, the home team pumped shots at Fernando Alvez, the Uruguayan goalkeeper, who barely deflected a shot by Schillaci, and then tipped a hard free kick by Luigi De Agostini.
        Italy was on the move. At 19 minutes of the second half, Serena slicked a ground pass ahead of Schillaci, who broke through two defenders and blasted a long, left-footed shot past Alvez.
        The only other substitution allowed to Vicini led directly to Italy's second goal. At 33 minutes of the second half, Vicini sent in Pietro Vierchowod, 31, a defender from Sampdoria and a veteran of the last two World Cup teams.
        Sosa Out of Lineup
        Vierchowod, known as a defensive player, had enough energy to make a run down the right side until dragged down on a foul. That set up the free kick by Giannini, a long, hooking, right-footed drive that Serena deflected with his head while a Uruguayan defender dragged him down.
        Uruguay, which won the World Cup in 1930 and 1950, showed little tonight. Ruben Sosa, who missed a penalty kick against Spain in the opening game and has been despondent since, did not start tonight because of a fever. He was jeered when he came in as a substitute, because he plays for Lazio, the Rome team that is a rival of the more popular Roma.
        There will be more moves from Vicini on Saturday because Berti was given his second yellow warning card of this tournament and must now sit out a game. The Italian bench is deep - and Vicini still has five players he has not used.
      