
       Eliahu Elath, a journalist who championed the Zionist cause, helped found the State of Israel and became its first Ambassador to Washington in 1948, died Thursday in Jerusalem. He was 86. The cause of death was not announced.
        Eliahu Elath, a journalist who championed the Zionist cause, helped found the State of Israel and became its first Ambassador to Washington in 1948, died Thursday in Jerusalem. He was 86. The cause of death was not announced.
        After serving in Washington, Mr. Elath became Israel's Ambassador to Britain and played a prominent role in the diplomatic moves surrounding the 1956 Suez invasion by Britain, France and Israel.
        After serving in London for a decade, Mr. Elath returned home to Israel in 1960 to direct the Afro-Asian Institute for Labor Studies, and in 1962 became president of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, serving for six years. Earlier this month he received an honorary doctorate from the university for his work in trying to improve Jewish-Arab relations.
        Born Eliahu Epstein in the Ukraine in 1903, he was the son of an engineer. He was educated in Hebrew schools in the Ukraine and at the University of Kiev, where he became a Zionist. He once was jailed by the Soviet authorities for seven months for his Zionist activities, and was to recall later that ''jail was a good training ground andprison really made us Zionists.''
        Escaped Through Baltics
        Mr. Elath escaped from the Soviet Union through the then-independent Baltic states in 1925 and moved to Palestine, where he worked briefly as an agricultural laborer. He spent almost a decade studying Middle Eastern culture at the American University of Beirut and other schools, specializing in oriental sociology and Arab tribal society.
        While in Lebanon he entered journalism as a correspodent for Reuters and several newspapers in Palestine, eventually becoming a propagandist for the Jewish Agency for Palestine. In 1934 Mr. Elath became the head of the political department of the Jewish Agency, which itself was a precursor to the Israeli Government that was created at that nation's independence in 1948.
        Mr. Elath was sent to Washington in 1945 as the agency's representative, becoming Israeli Ambassador there, as he was to recall later, 11 minutes after Israel declared its independence on May 14, 1948.
        Mr. Elath is survived by his wife, Zehava, a sculptor. A funeral service is scheduled Friday in Jerusalem.
      