
       Rabbi Solomon B. Freehof, a leader of the Reform Jewish movement and a world-renowned interpreter of Jewish law, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 97 years old.
        Rabbi Solomon B. Freehof, a leader of the Reform Jewish movement and a world-renowned interpreter of Jewish law, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 97 years old.
        Dr. Freehof, who lived in Pittsburgh, was rabbi emeritus of Rodef Shalom Temple, that city's leading Reform Jewish congregation, which he headed from 1934 to 1966. He returned to the pulpit there on occasion to preach at the High Holy Days or on the anniversary of his bar mitzvah. Until recently he made periodic visits to the temple to work in the library.
        A rabbi for 75 years, he was Reform Jewry's designated expert on responsa, or interpretation of Jewish religious laws. For many years he provided Reform Jews with answers to questions on how they should observe Jewish teachings. His role was to free Reform Jews from strictures of rabbinic law but at the same time to help them remain faithful to Jewish teachings.
        Blending Freedom and Loyalty
        ''I'm struggling for a philosophy which will allow us to have a kinship with the greatness of the Jewish spirit,'' he said in an interview in 1975. ''The problem is how to have loyalty and freedom - and it's a problem. The purpose of my responsa is not governance, but guidance.''
        In 1959, he became the first American elected president of the World Union for Progressive Judaism, the international organization of Reform Jews. He held the post until 1964. He also served as president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis and served with the Commission on Jewish Education for Reform Judaism and the National Jewish Welfare Board.
        Dr. Freehof began his interpretations of Jewish law in World War II, when he headed a committee of Jewish chaplains. With Jewish soldiers stationed in Iceland, where night lasted six months, when was sunset? His decision was that it would be the same time as in New York.
        Born in London on Aug. 8, 1892, Dr. Freehof came to the United States when he was 11 years old. The family first lived in Baltimore, where he received his primary and secondary education. He later moved to Cincinnati, where he attended the University of Cincinnati, while attending Hebrew Union College. He was ordained a rabbi in 1915 at the age of 22. He then taught at Hebrew Union for several years and served as a chaplain with the American Expeditionary Forces in Europe in World War I. Afterward, he became rabbi of Kehillath Anshe Mayriv Temple in Chicago and in 1934, he married Lillian Simon, who had been his secretary and was an author of children's books His library contained thousands of volumes, including one of the world's greatest collections on Jewish law. He did his own bookbinding.
        A Prolific Author
        He was a prolific author who wrote hundreds of articles, a series of book reviews and more than a score of books on Jewish law, including ''Stormers of Heaven,'' ''The Responsa Literature,'' ''Book of Job'' and ''Preface to Scripture.''
        For years he spoke on radio on one of his favorite subjects, Shakespeare. He was also in demand as a lecturer.
        Even before the days of television he expressed concern for young people, warning of the excesses that could come from radio and films.
        ''There is little that religion can do to influence them except to try and hold radio and movies to standards of decency,'' he said.
        He is survived by his wife and several nieces and nephews.
      