
       Dana Gardner Munro, a retired professor of Latin American history at Princeton University and a former State Department official, died on Saturday at his summer home in Waquoit, Mass. He was 97 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Dana Gardner Munro, a retired professor of Latin American history at Princeton University and a former State Department official, died on Saturday at his summer home in Waquoit, Mass. He was 97 years old and lived in Princeton.
        He died of arteriosclerosis, a funeral home representative said.
        Dr. Munro joined the faculty at Princeton in 1932, after 12 years with the State Department, where he had served as a special envoy to Haiti, charge d'affairs in Managua, consul to Chile and as head of the Latin American division.
        He was named chairman of the history department at Princeton in 1936 and three years later was appointed director of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, a position he held until 1958, when he returned to teaching. He was the William Stewart Tod Professor of Public Affairs at Princeton from its establishment in 1939 until he retired in 1961.
        Dr. Munro attended Brown University and the University of Wisconsin and received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of Pennsylvania. He spent two years in Central America studying economic and political conditions for the Carnegie Peace Foundation, then served as an aviator during World War I. After the war, he joined the State Department. He was a regional economist for the Mexican and Caribbean regions and in 1922 joined the diplomatic corps. In 1932, as special envoy to Haiti, he negotiated the withdrawal of the United States Marines from the country.
        He also served as president of the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, a unit established by the State Department to protect American investors. Dr. Munro was the author of five books, the most recent of which was ''A Student in Central America, 1914-16,'' published in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a daughter, Margaret Dayton of Media, Pa; a son, Gardner of Cranston, R.I.; a sister, Alice Haagensen of Palisades, N.Y.; 12 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      