
       Vasily V. Kuznetsov, a former First Vice President of the Soviet Union and a delegate to the United Nations, died Tuesday in Moscow, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported. He was 89 years old. The immediate cause of his death was not given.
        Vasily V. Kuznetsov, a former First Vice President of the Soviet Union and a delegate to the United Nations, died Tuesday in Moscow, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported. He was 89 years old. The immediate cause of his death was not given.
        A metallurgist by training, Mr. Kuznetsov first won the Kremlin's recognition in 1941 by devising new methods for processing steel, for which he was awarded a Stalin Prize.
        He was also given the Order of Lenin on his 50th birthday for efforts, mostly unsuccessful, to weld the labor unions of the world into a Communist-dominated federation to further Soviet political interests.
        Mr. Kuznetsov was best known for his efforts as a diplomatic troubleshooter for the Kremlin. As a diplomat of the old school who spoke fluent English, he would attack ''American imperialism'' one minute, then affably chat with journalists in the corridors of the United Nations.
        He served as the Soviet Union's First Deputy Foreign Minister for two decades, dealing with tough diplomatic assignments.
        Onerous Task After Cuba Crisis
        Nikita S. Khrushchev sent him to New York in 1962 to negotiate the removal of Soviet bases in Cuba after the missile crisis on the island. He was the Soviet delegate to the Geneva talks that led to the 1963 nuclear test-ban treaty. And he was the Kremlin's man on the scene in Czechoslovakia after the 1968 invasion by Warsaw Pact nations.
        Diplomats who dealt with Mr. Kuznetsov reported that he was a master of mixing outward cordiality with unyielding toughness in negotiations.
        ''Businesslike,'' ''cordial,'' ''accomplished'' and ''skilled'' were among the words they used to describe him.
        He assumed the job of First Vice President at the age of 76. Because of his advanced age, his appointment was taken to mean that he would be more concerned with relieving President Leonid I. Brezhnev from onerous ceremonial tasks than in being groomed as a successor to Mr. Brezhnev.
        Mr. Kuznetsov was a nonvoting member of the Soviet Politburo and served as First Vice President between 1977 and 1986.
        Soon a Revolutionary
        He was born into a peasant family in the village of Sofilovka in the Gorky region of the Russian republic in February 1901.
        He received his secondary education not in school, but in the Russian Revolution, as did many of his generation. He joined the Communist Party in 1927.  After the revolution, he studied metallurgical engineering at the Leningrad Polytechnic Institute before going to the United States for further study in 1931.
        He spent two years in America studying the manufacture and use of alloy steels, working at the Ford Motor Company's River Rouge plant outside Detroit and studying at the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh before returning home in 1933.
        Elevated by Stalin
        During World War II, Stalin brought him to Moscow to put his knowledge to work in the armaments industry. He continued to be influential at the fringes of power in Moscow, though never quite at the center.
        After Stalin's death in March 1953, Mr. Kuznetsov was moved into the Soviet diplomatic apparatus.
        He was made Ambassador to China in 1953 but served there for only nine months, returning home to succeed Andrei Y. Vishinsky as First Deputy Foreign Minister. Then he succeeded Vyacheslav M. Molotov as leader of the Soviet delegation to the United Nations General Assembly.
      