
       Olive Ann Burns, whose illness with lymphoma prompted her to write the 1984 novel ''Cold Sassy Tree,'' died on Wednesday. She was 65 years old and lived in Atlanta.
        Olive Ann Burns, whose illness with lymphoma prompted her to write the 1984 novel ''Cold Sassy Tree,'' died on Wednesday. She was 65 years old and lived in Atlanta.
        Ms. Burns died of heart failure, said a spokesman for Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta.
        Set in a small town in Georgia in 1906, her novel centers on a scandal that erupts when a crusty old man marries a young Yankee milliner just weeks after his first wife's death. As seen through the eyes of a teen-age boy, the May-December relationship develops from a marriage of convenience to one of deep love and trust.
        A TV Movie
        ''Cold Sassy Tree'' became a Book-of-the-Month Club alternate selection in 1984 and was made into a movie broadcast on the TNT cable network in October. It featured Faye Dunaway and Richard Widmark as the couple and Neil Patrick Harris as the boy.
        Ms. Burns decided to write the novel moments after a doctor diagnosed her disease in 1975, her brother, William H. Burns of Atlanta, said yesterday. ''She told me she thought: 'I've got to do something,' '' he said. '' 'I can't just sit home.' ''
        ''She had always wanted to write a book,'' Mr. Burns said, adding that their father had been a storyteller and that Ms. Burns had been taking copious notes of his tales, some of which inspired ''Cold Sassy Tree.'' She was writing a sequel at her death, he said.
        Ms. Burns and her husband, Andrew Sparks, wrote for Atlanta Weekly, a Sunday magazine once operated by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. She was a freelance writer and also wrote an advice column for The Constitution under the pen name Amy Larkin. Her husband, who also had lymphoma, died of heart failure last year.
        Ms. Burns majored in journalism and graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1946.
        In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, John A. Sparks of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a daughter, Becky Sparks of Atlanta, and two sisters, Margaret Turn of Bushkill, Pa., and Jean LeGrand of Conyers, Ga.
      