
       Dr. Albert Bowers, chairman and former chief executive of the Syntex Corporation, died Thursday at the University of California's San Francisco Medical Center in Palo Alto. He was 60 years old and lived in Palo Alto.
        Dr. Albert Bowers, chairman and former chief executive of the Syntex Corporation, died Thursday at the University of California's San Francisco Medical Center in Palo Alto. He was 60 years old and lived in Palo Alto.
        A Syntex spokesman said Dr. Bowers died of heart disease.
        A chemist by training, Dr. Bowers joined the international pharmaceutical and life sciences concern in 1956 as a group leader of research. He held several other positions at Syntex before becoming president in 1976. He was named chairman in 1981, a year after he was made chief executive, and relinquished the chief executive designation last July. He had planned to retire as chairman next Tuesday because of ill health.
        During Dr. Bowers's years as head of Syntex the company's sales more than doubled, to $1.349 billion in 1989, and its profit more than tripled, to $303 million. A number of new prescription drugs were developed, and Syntex, which had been through volatile changes of fortune on the stock market, settled down to steadier growth.
        More Than 120 Patents
        Dr. Bowers, a former board chairman of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, published more than 90 scientific papers on steroid research and received more than 120 United States patents.
        Among his scientific accomplishments was pioneering work in developing ways to selectively fluorinate steroids, which led to the synthesis of new tropical corticoids for treating skin diseases. His discovery of a new synthesis for norethindrone made possible the large-scale manufacture of the oral contraceptive agent.
        Dr. Bowers was born in Manchester, England, and held a bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of London and a doctorate in organic chemistry from the University of Manchester. He did postdoctoral study at Wayne State University under a Fulbright fellowship.
        In 1964 Dr. Bowers was awarded the Mexican Academy of Science's annual prize.
        Dr. Bowers's survivors include his second wife, the former Dr. Gwynn Akin; three daughters, Anita, Karen and Deborah, and his mother, Mary Munn.
      