
       Willis L. M. Reese, the Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia University and the director of the Parker School of Foreign and Comparative Law at Columbia for 25 years, died on Monday at his home in Hughsonville, N.Y. He was 77 years old and also had a home in Hewlett, L.I. He died of colon cancer, a friend said.
        Willis L. M. Reese, the Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia University and the director of the Parker School of Foreign and Comparative Law at Columbia for 25 years, died on Monday at his home in Hughsonville, N.Y. He was 77 years old and also had a home in Hewlett, L.I. He died of colon cancer, a friend said.
        In 1948, Professor Reese developed the first standard admissions test for American law schools, describing its objectives thus: ''to determine applicants' precision of analytical and logical thinking'' and their ''critical approach and ability to think independently'' and ''to move readily from the abstract to the concrete and vice versa.''
        Professor Reese was a director of the New York Legal Aid Society from 1951 to 1971, the chairman of Community Action for Legal Services in Harlem and the Bronx from 1967 to 1970 and the president of the Foreign Law Association from 1965 to 1968. He retired from Columbia in 1981, becoming a professor emeritus.  Board Chairman and Delegate He was also a former special hearing officer for the Justice Department on conscientious objectors, a president of the board of the Millbrook School and a mayor of Hewlett Bay Park.
        Professor Reese had also been an American delegate to the Hague Conference on Private International Law for five years and a chairman of the Committee on International Law of the New York State Bar Association and of the Board of Community Action for Legal Services.
        A tall, trim man, Willis Livingston Mesier Reese was a native of Bernardsville, N.J., and a graduate of St. Paul's School, Yale College and Yale Law School, where he was first in his class. In World War II, he served in Washington with the Office of Strategic Services, becoming a captain.
        Surviving are his wife of 53 years, the former Frances Stevens; a daughter, Frances, of Manhattan; four sons, William, John and George, all of Manhattan, and Alexander, of London, and six grandchildren.
      