
       Gustave Harrow, a lawyer and former assistant New York State Attorney General who was a leader in shaping art legislation, died on Saturday. He was 60 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
        Gustave Harrow, a lawyer and former assistant New York State Attorney General who was a leader in shaping art legislation, died on Saturday. He was 60 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
        Mr. Harrow's wife, Laurie, said he died of a brain tumor.
        During his tenure in the Attorney General's office, from 1965 to 1982, Mr. Harrow became involved in the prolonged legal battle over the estate of Mark Rothko, the Abstract Expressionist painter who committed suicide in 1970. The artist's heirs sued his executors over the management of his estate.
        Mr. Harrow, who entered the case for the Attorney General because the artist had set up a charitable foundation subject to New York State laws, argued during the lengthy trial that the estate's executors had violated the artist's wishes by hastily putting his paintings in commercial hands for indiscriminate sale.
        In 1976, Mr. Harrow also undertook the job of redefining the foundation, finding that its administrators had overridden Rothko's intention that the foundation disseminate his work.
        The Serra Lawsuit
        Mr. Harrow, a strong defender of artists' rights, represented the sculptor Richard Serra in his unsuccessful lawsuit filed in 1985 to block the Federal Government's removal of ''Tilted Arc,'' a Serra work it had commissioned, from the plaza of the Jacob K. Javits Federal building in downtown Manhattan. The suit was dismissed by a Federal judge in 1987.
        A crusader against corrupt practices in the art world, Mr. Harrow was instrumental in framing a landmark disclosure bill in 1981, while still in the Attorney General's office, which aimed at reducing fraud in the rapidly expanding fine prints market. Requiring that a seller must in effect guarantee to the buyer the authenticity of prints and photographs, and make restitution if the artwork was misrepresented, it is said to be the most comprehensive legislation in the country.
        ''Gus Harrow was a personal friend and brilliant lawyer,'' said Robert Abrams, the Attorney General of New York, said on Monday. ''During his tenure as assistant Attorney General, he made numerous contributions in ferreting out art fraud and protecting the public. He will long be remembered in the art world for his valuable work in the Rothko case.''
        In 1985, Mr. Harrow successfully represented a tenants' group from Westbeth, an artists' housing complex in downtown Manhattan, which sought to prevent the establishment of cooperative apartments in the state-chartered project.
        Born and raised in the Bronx, Mr. Harrow attended Morris High School and the City College of New York, where he earned a bachelor's degree in social sciences in 1951. In 1952, he obtained a master's degree in political science from the New School for Social Research. After serving in the Army in Korea he studied at Harvard Law School, then transferred to the Yale Law School, where he graduated with honors in 1957.
        Teaching Legal Ethics
        He resigned from the Attorney General's office in 1982 to become a law professor at New York Law School, where he taught legal ethics and art law. From 1984 to 1987, he was also an adjunct professor in the arts administration program at the School of Education at New York University.
        He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Beth Brownstein of Kew Gardens, Queens; a sister, Charlotte Rashbaum of Forest Hills, and a brother, Murray Harrow of Boca Raton, Fla.
        Correction:  July 11, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary last Wednesday about Gustave Harrow, Assistant Attorney General for the State of New York in the battle over the estate of the artist Mark Rothko, referred incompletely to the suit against Rothko's executors. The heirs accused the executors not only of mismanaging the estate but also of conspiring with the Marlborough Gallery in Manhattan to defraud it. The case resulted in a $9.2 million judgment against Marlborough and the three executors.
      