
       Karl Allison, the director of planning and development for the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. and a former Broadway and Off Broadway producer, died yesterday in a hospital in Perugia, Italy. He was 42 years old.
        Karl Allison, the director of planning and development for the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. and a former Broadway and Off Broadway producer, died yesterday in a hospital in Perugia, Italy. He was 42 years old.
        He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, said Nigel Redden, the general manager of the festival.
        Mr. Allison became ill on Sunday while attending the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, the European counterpart of the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. in Charleston, S.C.
        As a producer on Broadway, Mr. Allison's credits include ''Blithe Spirit'' (1987) with Richard Chamberlain and Geraldine Page, ''Wild Honey'' (1986) with Ian McKellen, ''Aren't We All?'' (1985) with Rex Harrison, Claudette Colbert and Lynn Redgrave, and ''You Can't Take It With You'' (1983) with Jason Robards and Colleen Dewhurst. Off Broadway, Mr. Allison was the principal producer of ''Greater Tuna,'' which opened in 1982.
        Of 'Energy and Hard Work'
        ''All of us at the festival are devastated at this news,'' Giancarlo Menotti, the founder and artistic director of both the Spoleto Festival and the Festival of Two Worlds, said yesterday. ''Karl Allison was a friend and a colleague whose energy and hard work we valued deeply. His death is a terrible loss.''
        James Karl Allison Jr. was born on Jan. 25, 1948, in Greenville, S.C., and graduated from Furman University in Greenville. He was director of public relations for the South Carolina Arts Commission in Columbia before moving to New York City.
        Mr. Allison joined the Spoleto board of directors in 1988, and became director of planning and development in February.
        On Jan. 29, Mr. Allison was a co-chairman of a Lincoln Center benefit for the Spoleto Festival that raised $321,000 to to offset the damages of Hurricane Hugo. The event featured many Spoleto artists, including the choreographer Jerome Robbins, the composer Philip Glass and the actresses Lynn Redgrave and Rosemary Harris.
        He is survived by his parents, James and Martha Allison of Greenville.
      