
       Dadour Dadourian, chairman and former chief executive officer of Dadourian Export Corporation and Interroyal Corporation, a shelving-manufacturing company, died on Wednesday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 84 years old and lived in Flower Hill, L.I.
        Dadour Dadourian, chairman and former chief executive officer of Dadourian Export Corporation and Interroyal Corporation, a shelving-manufacturing company, died on Wednesday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 84 years old and lived in Flower Hill, L.I.
        Mr. Dadourian died of cancer, his son, Alexander, said.
        A leading figure in the Armenian community in this country, Mr. Dadourian was born in Gurin, Turkey, and immigrated to the United States when he was 13. He lived with an uncle and attended the Boston School of Commerce from 1920 to 1924.
        Following graduation, he moved to Manhattan, and in 1934 formed his own import-export business. In 1956, he bought the Interroyal Corporation, based in Warren, Pa.
        In 1968, he and his associates raised the money to build St. Vartan Armenian Cathedral at 34th Street and Second Avenue, one of the the first Armenian cathedrals in North America. As founder of the Armenian Church Endowment Fund, he also helped establish smaller parishes throughout the diocese, including Holy Martyrs Armenian Church in Bayside, Queens, and St. Mary Armenian Church, which is now St. Stepanos, in Elberon, N.J.
        He helped develop St. Nersess Seminary in New Rochelle, N.Y., the first Armenian seminary in the United States, and established Dadourian Sans, an organization that brought orphaned Armenian children from Turkey to Jerusalem to be educated. He also suported the Holy Martyrs Day School in Bayside.
        In 1960, he received the Medal of St. Gregory, the highest honor given an Armenian layman, for his service to the church and the community.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sara Anoushian; three sons from his first marriage to Elise Salibian, who died, Alexander, of Plandome, L.I., Haig, of Berkley Heights, N.J., and Peter, of Lambertville, N.J., and 13 grandchildren.
      