
       Joseph Blumenthal, a publisher and typographer who printed special editions of Robert Frost's poems for more than 30 years, died on Wednesday at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 92 years old.
        Joseph Blumenthal, a publisher and typographer who printed special editions of Robert Frost's poems for more than 30 years, died on Wednesday at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 92 years old.
        His wife, Ann, died at the same time. The Connecticut State Police investigated their deaths, and said in a statement that the cause of death was asphyxiation but that there was no evidence of foul play.
        For 45 years beginning in 1926, Mr. Blumenthal ran the Spiral Press in Manhattan, printing limited editions on high-quality paper with vintage inks, which, he pointed out when he organized an exhibition of fine books at the Pierpont Morgan Library in Manhattan in 1973, age like wine.
        Mr. Blumenthal first met Frost in 1930, when Frost's collected poems were published. Mr. Blumenthal went on to print special editions of other works by Frost, as well as Frost's annual Christmas poem. The press run grew to 20,000 copies before Frost's death in 1963, stretching the definition of Spiral Press as a small publisher.
        Proofreading the Poet
        Mr. Blumenthal lavished care on the details of editing and proofreading, even though he described himself as ''the worst proofreader I know.'' But he made his share of valuable catches. When correcting a proof for Frost's poem ''Maple,'' he tripped on the line ''Her mother's bedroom was her father's still.'' The poet changed it to ''Her mother's bedroom was her father's yet.''
        Mr. Blumenthal printed limited editions for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Morgan Library. He printed the collected papers of Franklin D. Roosevelt and a special edition of John F. Kennedy's inaugural address.
        He also designed a Roman typeface called Spiral, after the Spiral Press. The name was changed to Emerson when it became available commercially.
        From Printer to Author
        Mr. Blumenthal closed the Spiral Press in 1971 and turned from printing books to writing them. His first, ''The Art of the Printed Book,'' coincided with the Morgan Library exhibit, for which Mr. Blumenthal chose the 125 volumes that were displayed, among them the 1935 Rogers Bible, which Mr. Blumenthal called ''the most important printed book of the 20th century.'' Mr. Blumenthal later wrote a biography of Rogers, along with ''The Printed Book in America'' (1977) and a monograph, ''Robert Frost and His Printers.''
        The American Institute of Graphic Arts awarded Mr. Blumenthal its medal for distinguished achievement in 1952.
        There are no survivors.
      