
       Harold S. Hirsch, founder of the White Stag Manufacturing Company, a leading maker of casual sportswear, died of cancer at his home here Wednesday. He was 82 years old. Mr. Hirsch, who became one of Portland's most prominent civic leaders, was a pioneer in the manufacture of outdoor clothing.
        Harold S. Hirsch, founder of the White Stag Manufacturing Company, a leading maker of casual sportswear, died of cancer at his home here Wednesday. He was 82 years old. Mr. Hirsch, who became one of Portland's most prominent civic leaders, was a pioneer in the manufacture of outdoor clothing.
        In 1929, at the age of 21, he used a few sewing machines and a corner of a factory owned by his family's Hirsch-Weis Company to begin making apparel for downhill skiing, a sport then in its infancy in the United States.
        His venture grew into a division of Hirsch-Weis and later became White Stag. From ski wear, it branched into a broad line of casual sportswear and expanded from its base in Portland to include plants in the South and East and international joint ventures.
        Mr. Hirsch was a pioneer in racially integrating his manufacturing plants in the South and in Portland during World War II. For a time, he also headed a program of the National Alliance of Businessmen intended to spur the hiring of minority workers.
        Mr. Hirsch, who attended Dartmouth College and Oxford, was a strong supporter of higher education. He served as a trustee of Reed College here from 1956 until his death, was a member of the advisory board to the University of Oregon's College of Business Administration and spent six years on the board of the university's School of Law.
        Mr. Hirsch held many civic posts, including the presidency of the Port of Portland Commission.
        Mr. Hirsch is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; a son, Frederic, of Portland; a daughter, Janet Hirsch Willis, of Novato, Calif.; a stepson, Robert B. Conklin, of Portland; a stepdaughter, Caroline Conklin Odlum, of Tigard, Ore.; a sister, Helene Hirsch Oppenheimer, of San Francisco, and four grandchildren.
      