
       Wilbur S. Smith, a retired international transportation designer and developer, died on Wednesday at the Providence Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 78 years old and lived in Columbia.
        Wilbur S. Smith, a retired international transportation designer and developer, died on Wednesday at the Providence Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 78 years old and lived in Columbia.
        The cause of death is believed to have been a respiratory ailment, said Robert A. Hubbard, chairman and president of Wilbur Smith & Associates, the Columbia-based engineering consulting firm that Mr. Smith founded 38 years ago.
        An innovator in modern transportation systems, Mr. Smith helped design and develop major parts of the Interstate highway system, the New Jersey Turnpike, the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel and the mass transit system in Washington. He also counseled the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on ways to operate commercial ventures in space.
        Traveled Widely on Projects
        He was a licensed professional engineer in 50 states, Britain, Australia and Hong Kong. At times he handled 100 projects simultaneously and traveled 250,000 miles a year to review them.
        Mr. Smith was the retired chairman and president of Wilbur Smith & Associates, which he founded in New Haven in 1952. It now has offices in 28 cities in the United States and 13 foreign locations. In 1981 the firm was merged into Armco Inc., the Ohio-based steel producer. Mr. Smith retired as chairman in 1983, and the concern was later acquired by employees and the original name was restored.
        Mr. Smith, a native of Columbia, began his career by working for the South Carolina Department of Highways, where he became the first state traffic engineer. He left to study traffic engineering at Harvard and Yale, and he founded Wilbur Smith & Associates while working at Yale as associate director of the Bureau of Highway Traffic, a post he held until the mid-1960's. He then moved to Columbia permanently.
        He was a former president of the Institute of Traffic Engineers and former president and chairman of the Eno Foundation for Transportation in Washington. With Norman Hebden, he was co-author of ''State-City Relationships in Highway Affairs'' (1950; Yale University).
        Mr. Smith graduated from the University of South Carolina in 1932, where he also received a master's degree.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sarah Bolick; three daughters, Sally Cahalan of Marietta, Pa., Margaret Smith of Washington and Dr. Stephanie Smith-Phillips of Charleston, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      