
       Michael Drummond, who in 1985 became the first person successfully given an artificial heart transplant as a bridge to receiving a human heart, died Saturday at the University of Arizona Medical Center in Tucson. He was 30 years old and lived in Phoenix.
        Michael Drummond, who in 1985 became the first person successfully given an artificial heart transplant as a bridge to receiving a human heart, died Saturday at the University of Arizona Medical Center in Tucson. He was 30 years old and lived in Phoenix.
        Dr. Jack G. Copeland, head of the group that had implanted a second artificial heart in Mr. Drummond seven weeks ago, said he died of multiple organ failure and a yeast infection that spread to his bloodstream.
        On Aug. 29, 1985, Mr. Drummond, who had developed heart problems after a virus five months earlier, was given a Jarvik-7 mechanical heart. That heart was also implanted by Dr. Copeland in an operation that lasted just over four hours.
        Nine days later, after a series of small strokes led to an emergency search for a human heart, the transplant team gave Mr. Drummond the heart of a 19-year-old Texas man who had suffered fatal injuries in a motorcycle accident.
        Youngest Patient
        At the time Mr. Drummond, then a 25-year-old former assistant manager of a grocery store in Cottonwood, Ariz., was the youngest person to undergo an artificial-heart transplant. The Jarvik device, invented by Dr. Robert K. Jarvik at the University of Utah, and subsequent artificial hearts have been criticized as impractical for the permanent use they were originally envisioned as having. But surgeons saw a potential for the devices to serve as bridges to transplanting human hearts in patients.
        In Mr. Drummond's case the artificial heart, implanted when his condition was rapidly deteriorating and he was expected to die within 48 hours, had bought the time needed to find a human heart. Dr. Copeland noted Saturday night that the bridge procedure had extended Mr. Drummond's life by four and a half years, enabling him to return to work at a Phoenix-area grocery store.
        Last February, Mr. Drummond developed an infection that spread gangrene to his gall bladder, which was removed in an emergency operation. But more infections weakened his donor heart, and Dr. Copeland implanted a second artificial heart, a Symbion J-7-70, on May 21. It was hoped that Mr. Drummond could survive long enough to regain the strength necessary to receive a second human heart, but other medical complications developed soon after the implant of the Symbion device.
        'I Guess I'm Part of History'
        In June 1987, nearly two years after the bridge-to-transplant operation, the Jarvik-7 mechanical heart was given to the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and placed on exhibition.
        ''I guess I'm part of history,'' Mr. Drummond said at the time, ''but not by choice. I'm just happy that I could give something that kept me alive for other people to see.''
        Mr. Drummond's father, Clarence, told The Arizona Star after his son's death, ''We're just grateful that the artificial heart was here for Mike the first time, and even this time. There were still things that Mike wanted to do, and with the artificial heart he had a shot at it.''
        In addition to his father, Mr. Drummond is survived by his mother, Joan: two sisters, Debbie Micensky and Jamie Looser, all of Phoenix, and a brother, Mark, who lives in California.
      