
       Stanley Shapiro, a screen writer who won an Academy Award for ''Pillow Talk,'' a romantic comedy starring Doris Day and Rock Hudson, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here. He was 65 years old.
        Stanley Shapiro, a screen writer who won an Academy Award for ''Pillow Talk,'' a romantic comedy starring Doris Day and Rock Hudson, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Shapiro died of leukemia, said Dr. Robert Miller, a longtime friend.
        Mr. Shapiro, who was born in Brooklyn, began his writing career in radio and television. He then began writing movies, creating a string of hits in the 1950's and 60's.
        His flair for light, romantic comedy provided popular starring vehicles for such actors as Cary Grant, David Niven, Marlon Brando, Charles Boyer and Dean Martin.
        His screen credits include ''Operation Petticoat,'' ''Lover Come Back,'' ''That Touch of Mink,'' ''How to Save a Marriage - and Ruin Your Life,'' ''The Perfect Furlough'' and ''Come September.''
        'I Am a Humorist'
        ''Although I find social institutions, manners, customs and prejudices a bit ridiculous, I do not regard them as a satirist,'' he told an interviewer in 1962. ''I am a humorist. Will Rogers was a satirist, Laurel and Hardy were humorists.
        ''Believe me, humor is much harder to write. It was a lot easier for Will Rogers to get a laugh by doing a pun about the Government than it was for Laurel and Hardy to figure out a routine on how to move a piano manually from the basement to the fifth floor.''
        Mr. Shapiro also wrote plays, including ''The Engagement Baby,'' and the novels ''Simon's Soul'' and ''A Time to Remember.''
        ''Pillow Talk'' (1959), in which a couple who dislike each other fall in love over a party line, was the first pairing of Mr. Hudson and Miss Day, who went on to make several other popular films together.
        Mr. Shapiro's last film was ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels'' (1988), which starred Michael Caine and Steve Martin as con men trying to outdo each other.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sesquia.
      