
       Francis J. Little, the director of advertising and public relations for the New York Philharmonic, died early Monday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 56 years old.
        Francis J. Little, the director of advertising and public relations for the New York Philharmonic, died early Monday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 56 years old.
        Mr. Little had been under treatment for lymphoma since last summer, a Philharmonic spokesman said.
        Mr. Little joined the Philharmonic in 1979, one year after Zubin Mehta became its music director. In addition to his activities in advertising and public relations, Mr. Little was a liaison to several important Philharmonic corporate sponsors, including the American Savings Bank, which helps underwrite the orchestra's free parks concerts, and Citicorp/Citibank, which has supported the Philharmonic's foreign tours since 1980.
        His tenure with the orchestra included a number of milestones, including the 60th anniversary of the Young People's Concerts, the 45th anniversary of the debut of Leonard Bernstein, the 10,000th concert in the orchestra's history and the 25th season of parks concerts.
        Helped Plan 1992-93 Festivities
        His most recent work involved the organization of news conferences in the spring announcing the appointment of Kurt Masur as the new music director, and planning for the celebration in 1992-93 of the Philharmonic's 150th season.
        Mr. Little was born in New York City in 1934, and worked as a child actor and Radio City Music Hall page before attending Cheshire Academy, the Choate School and Yale University.
        Before joining the Philharmonic, he worked in public relations for films and television and in advertising. He held posts at Paramount Pictures; WBKB in Chicago; WABC in New York; ABC News; McFadden, Strauss, Eddy & Irwin, and Walt Disney Productions. He also spent 10 years with the Public Broadcasting Service, first as manager of national media information and then as senior vice president of development.
        He is survived by his wife, Toby Tadman-Little.
      