
       Col. Thomas H. Johnson, director of the Science Research Laboratory at the United States Military Academy, died on June 26 at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 46 years old and lived in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. The academy reported that he died of lymphoma.
        Col. Thomas H. Johnson, director of the Science Research Laboratory at the United States Military Academy, died on June 26 at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 46 years old and lived in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. The academy reported that he died of lymphoma.
        Colonel Johnson joined the West Point faculty in 1977, first teaching English and later applied physics. At his death he was professor of physics and associate dean for academic research, in addition to directing the science laboratory.
        In 1981 and 1982, while on leave from the academy, he served as executive director of the White House Science Council. In the last half of 1989 he again went to Washington, this time as special assistant to the Secretary of Energy for military systems.
        Panels on Nuclear Fusion
        In the last decade he was a member of several governmental advisory panels dealing with nuclear fusion and space technology, two of his specialties, and participated in studies for the American Physical Society and the National Academy of Sciences.
        He was the author of many literary essays and poems that appeared in The New Republic, The Sewanee Review, The Southern Review and The American Scholar, among other publications.
        Colonel Johnson, who was born in Boston, was a West Point graduate. He received master's and doctoral degrees in applied physics from the University of California at Davis-Livermore. From 1975 to 1977 he was chief of the physics section at the Air Force weapons Laboratory at Kirtland Air Base in New Mexico.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Cynthia Galas; three daughters, Jennifer, Emily and Laura, all of Cornwall-on-Hudson; his parents, Col. John Johnson and Elizabeth Johnson of Roanoke, Va., and a brother, Col. Nick Johnson of Silver Spring, Md.
      