
       Joe Appiah, a Ghanaian political figure and former diplomat whose marriage to a white British woman attracted wide publicity in 1953, died on Sunday in an Accra hospital, a family friend, Henry Louis Gates Jr., said. Mr. Appiah was 71 years old and lived in Kumasi, Ghana.
        Joe Appiah, a Ghanaian political figure and former diplomat whose marriage to a white British woman attracted wide publicity in 1953, died on Sunday in an Accra hospital, a family friend, Henry Louis Gates Jr., said. Mr. Appiah was 71 years old and lived in Kumasi, Ghana.
        Professor Gates, an expert in African-American literature at Duke University, said Mr. Appiah had been suffering from cancer of the mouth.
        In 1953 in London, Mr. Appiah, a law student from a prominent Ashanti family in what is now Ghana, married Peggy Cripps, whose late father, Sir Stafford Cripps, had been Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer.
        At the Church of England ceremony, the bride wore a gown of mother of pearl-embroidered silk brocade. The bridegroom, a Methodist, wore a tribal ceremonial garment - similar to a toga - of yellow and green striped silk.
        Broke With Nkrumah
        Mr. Appiah was for several years the personal representative in London of the Ghanaian leader, Kwame Nkrumah, during the campaign for independence of what was then the Gold Coast. It became independent from Britain as Ghana in 1957.
        But Mr. Appiah broke with Mr. Nkrumah and became prominent in the West African nation's political opposition. He was a member of the Ghanaian Parliament when he was arrested and detained, under the Preventive Detention Act, in 1961 and 1962.
        From 1970 to 1972 he was chairman of a new opposition party, the Justice Party, formed in 1970 through the merger of the country's three opposition parties. At that time he was also president of the Ghana Bar Association. Under later national leaderships, He went on to become Ghana's representative at the United Nations in 1977 and 1978 and held other official posts.
        Mr. Appiah, born Joseph Emmanuel Appiah on Nov. 16, 1918 in Kumasi, was known as Joe in politics and used the shorter name as the author of several books. They include his memoirs, entitled ''Autobiography of an African Patriot,'' which are to be published later this year by Praeger.
        He is survived by his wife, the author of several novels and children's books; his sister Victoria, of Kumasi, who is the consort of the traditional king of the Ashanti people; his son Anthony, who is a professor of philosophy at Duke University; three daughters - Isobel, who lives in Botswana; Adowa, of Lagos, Nigeria, and Abena, of Accra, and six grandchildren.
      