
       About 250 friends, colleagues and admirers of John Henry Faulk gathered at the Public Theater on Monday evening to reminisce about the Southern humorist and storyteller who broke the entertainment industry blacklist of the 1950's.
        About 250 friends, colleagues and admirers of John Henry Faulk gathered at the Public Theater on Monday evening to reminisce about the Southern humorist and storyteller who broke the entertainment industry blacklist of the 1950's.
        Mr. Faulk, a CBS radio personality who successfully sued Aware Inc., a group that caused him to be blacklisted in 1956, died of cancer on April 8, at the age of 76. Many of the principal players in the six-year drama that unfolded between the time Mr. Faulk was blacklisted and the 1962 libel trial were at the Public on Monday. They recalled a gentle man who became an outspoken advocate of First Amendment freedoms.
        Ossie Davis, who with his wife, Ruby Dee, was a close friend of Mr. Faulk's, and who was the host for most of the evening, took exception to those who said Mr. Faulk was ahead of his time.
        ''John was 200 years behind the time,'' Mr. Davis said. ''John would have been a perfect Founding Father'' who would have wondered, Mr. Davis mused, where were the ''Founding Mothers and the Founding Black Folks and the Founding Youths and the Founding Gay People?''
        Then and Now
        Joseph Papp, the producer of the New York Shakespeare Festival, drew a parallel between the era of the blacklist and the current climate of censorship of the arts, including attempts in Congress to control or dismantle the National Endowment for the Arts. On the stage with him were Mr. Faulk's widow, Liz, the actress Kim Hunter, the folklorist Alan Lomax; Louis Nizer, the lawyer who argued Mr. Faulk's case; the author and oral historian Studs Terkel; Ring Lardner Jr., one of the Hollywood 10 screenwriters blacklisted in the late 1940's, and the folk singers Pete Seeger and Odetta.
        ''I don't know what people need to get them to understand what's going on,'' Mr. Papp said. Mr. Seeger, hands planted on his knees and banjo slung around his neck, nodded in agreement, along with many in the audience, when Mr. Papp added, ''John Henry Faulk was a pioneer who was unfortunately a victim of this kind of thinking, which is the imposition of certain moral views.''
        Mrs. Faulk described her husband as ''a very bruised man'' after the trial ended. In a clear, small voice that quivered with feeling, Mr. Nizer recounted events surrounding the trial and concluded: ''When God examines us, He doesn't look for medals or honorary degrees. He looks for scars, scars suffered in doing some good for your fellow man. John Henry Faulk had the scars of suffering for all those years to do some good for the nation.''
        'Problem of Communism'
        Mr. Seeger sang some of the folk song ''John Henry.'' Before reading a message from the entertainer Steve Allen, Mr. Seeger said, ''Johnny Faulk was not a Communist, but he worked with all sorts of people, including Communists like me.'' Mr. Allen's message was admiring of Mr. Faulk's courage while acknowledging ''the problem of Communism'' in the 1950's.
        The gathering heard reminiscences by Tony Randall, Mr. Lardner and Ms. Hunter, who recalled being given a line in a film because the star who was supposed to speak it considered it ''too Communist.'' The line, Ms. Hunter said, was ''share and share alike.'' Ms. Dee and Mr. Terkel also spoke. The program concluded with performances by Odetta and Mr. Seeger, who easily engaged the audience in singing. It ended with the showing of a few minutes from ''The Man Who Beat the Blacklist -John Henry Faulk,'' a public-television program about Mr. Faulk that is to be shown on Aug. 1 at 9 P.M.
      