
       Arthur Tremain Hertig, whose pioneering studies on human embryology contributed to the development by others of the contraceptive pill and in vitro fertilization, died Friday at Falmouth Hospital in Falmouth, Mass. He was 86 years old.
        Arthur Tremain Hertig, whose pioneering studies on human embryology contributed to the development by others of the contraceptive pill and in vitro fertilization, died Friday at Falmouth Hospital in Falmouth, Mass. He was 86 years old.
        His son, Andrew Hertig, said he died of cardiac arrest after a colon operation.
        Dr. Hertig, a retired professor of pathology at Harvard Medical School who was chairman of the school's department of pathology from 1952 to 1968, also conducted studies on the causes of gynecological cancers, ovarian tumors, placental moles and spontaneous and traumatic abortion. His work earned him many awards, including the Gold Headed Cane Award of the American Association of Pathologists in 1979 as ''a physician who represents the highest ideals in medicine and pathology.''
        In one of his most well-known projects, Dr. Hertig and Dr. John Rock, of the Department of Embryology of the Carnegie Institute of Washington, studied the development of human life at the youngest stage ever observed. The doctors studied very early embryos, including a two-cell ovum 60 hours old, retrieved from women who had undergone total hysterectomies. They described the human embryo from the first division of the ovum until placental circulation takes over. The research laid the foundation for infertility therapy and for the successful transplantation of fertilized eggs.
        Field Work in China
        Born in Minneapolis, Dr. Hertig worked as an assistant in entomology at the University of Minnesota while still in high school. He enrolled in the university as a pre-medicine student but left for two years to do field studies in China on the parasitic disease leishmaniasis. During his time in China, he developed a technique for feeding and infecting sand flies that is still in use by researchers today.
        Dr. Hertig graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1930 and later trained in pathology, particularly obstetrical and gynecological pathology. He joined the faculty of Harvard Medical School upon his graduation, rising to full professor in 1948.
        For nearly 20 years, between 1952 and 1970, Dr. Hertig held the Shattuck Professorship in Pathology, a principal teaching and research post at Harvard Medical School. At the time of his appointment, Dr. Hertig was a pathologist and senior obstetrician of the Boston Lying-In Hospital and pathologist of the Free Hospital for Women in Brookline, Mass.
        Atlas of Infertility
        As he approached retirement, he continued his research at the New England Regional Primate Research Center, which is affiliated with Harvard, until 1987.
        After retirement, Dr. Hertig worked on an atlas of reproduction and infertility in animals. Harvard officials said he remained accessible to younger researchers until a few years before his death.
        Throughout his career, Dr. Hertig published three books and close to 200 scientific articles on reproductive pathology.
        Dr. Hertig, a longtime resident of Winchester, Mass., recently moved to a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. His wife of 55 years, Linda Woodworth, died in 1988.
        He is survived by his second wife, Frances Thomas, of Lexington, Mass.; a son, Andrew Hertig, of New Hampshire; and five grandchildren.
        A memorial service is planned for early fall.
        Correction:  July 29, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary last Sunday about Arthur Tremain Hertig, an embryologist, misstated the affiliation of a colleague, Dr. John Rock. Dr. Rock, who died in 1984, was clinical professor of gynecology, emeritus, at Harvard University; he was not affiliated with the Carnegie Institution in Washington.
      