
       Nathaniel C. Wyeth, a Du Pont engineer who invented the plastic soda bottle, died Wednesday at the Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Glen Cove, Me. He was 78 years old and lived in Tenants Harbor, Me., and Chadds Ford, Pa.
        Nathaniel C. Wyeth, a Du Pont engineer who invented the plastic soda bottle, died Wednesday at the Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Glen Cove, Me. He was 78 years old and lived in Tenants Harbor, Me., and Chadds Ford, Pa.
        He died of complications from a stroke suffered last year, said a spokesman for E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, for which Mr. Wyeth worked for 40 years.
        Mr. Wyeth, a son of the late illustrator N. C. Wyeth and the brother of the painter Andrew Wyeth, frequently called himself ''the other Wyeth.'' Although widely known in his own field, he likened his fame to oblivion when measured against that of his artist relatives.
        ''It bothered me for a while,'' he once told an interviewer. ''But then I figured they needed the publicity more than I did to help them move their wares. I'm in the same field as the artists - creativity - but theirs is a glamour one.''
        In the mid-1970's Mr. Wyeth developed a bottle made of polyethylene terephthalate, or PET, which quickly became the standard two-liter bottle for carbonated soft drinks. It subsequently was extensively used in other sizes and for other liquid products.
        Lighter than glass and virtually unbreakable, Mr. Wyeth's bottle succeeded because, unlike some predecessors, it did not chemically contaminate the contents. More than six million of the bottles are produced worldwide each year.
        Name Changed at 10
        Mr. Wyeth was born in Chadds Ford, the family homestead, and was named for his father, Newell Convers Wyeth. His father changed the boy's first name to Nathaniel, after the boy's uncle, when he was 10.
        He received bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering from the University of Pennsylvania. He joined Du Pont's engineering department in 1936 and served as field engineer and assistant laboratory director before being named the company's first engineering fellow in 1963. In 1975 he became the first senior engineering fellow, the highest technical position at Du Pont.
        Mr. Wyeth invented or was the co-inventor of 25 products and processes in plastics, textile fibers, electronics and mechanical systems. Most of his inventions were processes that accomplished things more rapidly, more efficiently or less expensively.
        Among the honors he received was the 1981 international award for outstanding achievement from the Society of Plastics Engineers for his invention of the PET bottle. In 1986 he was elected to the Hall of Fame of the Society of the Plastics Industry. He was a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
        Mr. Wyeth's first wife, the former Caroline Pyle, died in 1973. In addition to his brother, who lives in Chadds Ford, he is survived by his second wife, the former Jean Grady, whom he married in 1984; five sons by his first marriage, Howard, John and David, all of Manhattan, N. Convers, of Oakton, Va., and Andrew, of Willimantic, Conn.; three sisters, Henrietta Hurd, of San Patricio, N.M., and Carolyn Wyeth and Ann McCoy, both of Chadds Ford. Also surviving are two grandchildren.
      