
       Maurice Girodias, a French publisher whose early editions of such books as Vladimir Nabokov's ''Lolita'' and Henry Miller's ''Tropic of Capricorn'' led him into long battles with French censors, died here today at the age of 71, apparently of a heart attack.
        Maurice Girodias, a French publisher whose early editions of such books as Vladimir Nabokov's ''Lolita'' and Henry Miller's ''Tropic of Capricorn'' led him into long battles with French censors, died here today at the age of 71, apparently of a heart attack.
        Mr. Girodias, who was being interviewed on the Jewish Community Radio when he fell ill, also published works by Samuel Beckett, Jean Genet, Lawrence Durrell, J. P. Donleavy, William Burroughs and Georges Bataille, although he was best known for first bringing ''Lolita'' into print.
        He began his publishing career in the 1930's as a teen-age assistant to his father, Jack Kahane, who first published Henry Miller's ''Tropic of Cancer'' and who formed part of the literary circle flourishing in Paris at the time.
        After World War II, he founded Olympia Press, but it foundered under the pressure of censors who banned some of its editions as pornographic. In the early 1960's he opened a night club, but this was closed by the police after he presented a show inspired by the Marquis de Sade's ''Philosophy in the Bedroom.''
        In 1964, after being banned from publishing for 90 years, Mr. Girodias decided to go into exile in the United States. He lived there until 1974, when he was frustrated in his attempt to publish a book of political fiction in which Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger was the hero.
        Returning to France, where censorship rules had been liberalized, he wrote his autobiography, ''A Day on Earth,'' the first volume being called ''The Arrival'' and the second ''The Gardens of Eros.''
        Correction:  July 7, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Thursday about the French publisher Maurice Girodias omitted his survivors. He was survived by his second wife, Lilla; two daughters from a previous marriage, Valerie and Juliette; two sisters and a brother.
      