
       Raymond St. Jacques, an actor who helped lower racial barriers for blacks in television and films, died Monday in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        Raymond St. Jacques, an actor who helped lower racial barriers for blacks in television and films, died Monday in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        He died of cancer of the lymph glands, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        On television, Mr. St. Jacques played a cattle driver in the 1960's western series ''Rawhide'' and appeared often in many other prime-time series. In films, he earned wide praise in ''The Pawnbroker'' (1965), ''Up Tight'' (1968), ''Cotton Comes to Harlem'' (1970), ''Lost in the Stars'' (1974) and ''The Evil That Men Do'' (1984). Reviewers repeatedly said his talents exceeded the merits of most of his two dozen films.
        The actor, who stood 6 feet 3 inches tall and had a resonant baritone voice, specialized in villains like a coolly terrifying Haitian police chief in ''The Comedians'' in 1967, but he also adjusted easily to heroic roles. He portrayed the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1977 film ''The Private Files of J. Edgar Hoover.''
        In 1973, Mr. St. Jacques earned praise for directing, producing and starring in the film ''Book of Numbers,'' a comedy-melodrama about two entrepreneurs who bring the numbers game to a small Arkansas town in the 1930's.
        Shakespeare to Genet
        The actor, whose original name was James Arthur Johnson, was born on March 1, 1930, in Hartford. His parents were divorced soon after, and his mother moved her son and daughter to New Haven. She worked as a medical technician to help put him through Yale College, where he studied psychology and then drama.
        After college, he appeared in many Shakespearean festival roles in Stratford, Conn., San Diego and New York. At Stratford, he also served as fencing master, staging duels and battle scenes.
        He then settled in New York, where he worked as a dishwasher, stock boy, model and salesman while studying at the Actors Studio and seeking acting jobs. His first major breakthrough occurred in 1961 in ''The Blacks,'' Jean Genet's long-running Off-Broadway play. He made his film debut in ''Black Like Me'' (1964) and began getting many television roles.
        In Los Angeles, he conducted many classes for aspiring actors in Watts .
        Survivors include his mother, Vivienne, and his sister, Barbara Birt, both of New Haven.
      