
       David W. Peck, a retired Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court who played a leading role in court reform in the late 1940's and 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        David W. Peck, a retired Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court who played a leading role in court reform in the late 1940's and 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        He became Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division's First Department, covering Manhattan and the Bronx, in 1947 at the age of 44. At that time he was believed to be the youngest person to have held that position in the history of the state.
        Fought Court Congestion
        For a decade he oversaw the state's court system in Manhattan and the Bronx. Starting in 1947, he conducted a 10-year campaign to reduce congestion and delay in the courts. When he retired as Presiding Justice in 1957, State Supreme Court in Manhattan had reduced calendar congestion to its lowest point in 57 years and delay in jury trials to its shortest in 37 years.
        After Justice Peck stepped down from the bench, he returned to Sullivan & Cromwell as a senior partner. He retired from the law firm in 1980.
        A liberal Republican, David Warner Peck was one of the ''Young Turks'' who began modernizing the Republican Party in New York County in the early 1930's. Among his associates were Thomas E. Dewey, who went on to become Governor of New York, and Herbert Brownell Jr., a future United States Attorney General.
        He was 16 when he entered Wabash College in his hometown of Crawfordsville, Ind., after skipping his senior year of high school. He graduated in three years with honors and worked his way through Harvard Law School as a tutor.
        A Law Partner at 31
        At 31 he was a partner in charge of litigation for Sullivan & Cromwell, one of New York's leading firms.
        He belonged to many civic and professional organizations. He was a trustee of the Greenwich Savings Bank, the Vincent Astor Fund, Wabash College and the New York University Law Center Foundation.
        He was the author of ''The Greer Case,'' a television drama based on a court case. He was also a great baseball fan. His law clerks, past and present, called themselves ''Peck's Paragons'' and used to hold annual meetings with him at Ebbets Field when the Brooklyn Dodgers played there.
        Justice Peck is survived by his wife, the former Gladys Roach; two sons from his marriage to the former Elizabeth Saville, who died in 1980 - David W. Jr., of Manhattan, and Morgan Scott of New Preston, Conn. - and six grandchildren.
      