
       Gordon Bunshaft, whose modernist skyscrapers, museums and libraries made him one of the most influential architects of the 20th century, died on Monday evening at his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Gordon Bunshaft, whose modernist skyscrapers, museums and libraries made him one of the most influential architects of the 20th century, died on Monday evening at his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Bunshaft died of cardiovascular arrest, said Leon Moed, one of his partners at the architecture firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. Mr. Bunshaft joined the firm in 1937 and spent 42 years there. When he retired in 1979, it was less as a member of a large corporate architectural office than as a designer with an immense international reputation of his own.
        Until his retirement, the gruff, taciturn Mr. Bunshaft was the embodiment of Skidmore's New York office, which under his direction became the premier purveyor of cool, corporate modernism. Mr. Bunshaft did not look the part of tastemaker; he was stocky, had a gray crew cut and generally smoked a pipe. But he brought modern architecture to the corporate boardroom in the form of such landmark buildings as Lever House, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, 9 West 57th Street and the Pepsi-Cola Building (now 500 Park Avenue) in Manhattan; the Banque Lambert in Brussels; the National Commercial Bank building in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and the Connecticut General Life Insurance headquarters in Bloomfield, Conn.
        Shaping a Skyline
        Unlike many other architects - including many in his own firm, which sharply changed its design direction after his retirement - Mr. Bunshaft never let down the flag of modern architecture. He believed deeply that the International Style of glass, metal and stone was the proper architectural expression for the 20th century, and that any attempt to return to the styles of the past was trivial and faddish. Mr. Bunshaft's commitment and consistency made him a hero in many architectural circles and helped him win the Pritzker Prize, often called architecture's Nobel, in 1988.
        But it also put Mr. Bunshaft out of touch with generations of younger architects, to whom he appeared as a kind of architectural Rock of Gibraltar, a solid and lasting part of the landscape more than a fresh and changing presence. Mr. Bunshaft's work did evolve. But it was more a shift from an earlier, lighter kind of modernism, characterized by glass and metal and a sense that his buildings could almost float, to heavier, more massive structures of travertine. His earlier buildings, like the glass slabs of Lever House on Park Avenue, completed in 1952, or the Pepsi-Cola Building five blocks to the north, completed in 1959, received nearly unanimous praise from critics. Lewis Mumford, writing in The New Yorker, called the building ''an impeccable achievement . . . It says all that can be said, delicately, accurately, elegantly, with surfaces of glass.''
        After a developer threatened to replace its light, airy slabs of green glass with a much larger structure, Lever House was declared a New York City landmark in 1983, one of the first modern buildings to be so honored. Many of Mr. Bunshaft's later projects met with less critical approval, however, and one of them, the glass tower with a sloping facade at 9 West 57th Street, completed in 1974, was cited by a civic group as a negative example of New York City architecture.
        But for all he shaped the corporate skyline, Mr. Bunshaft also wanted to be remembered as an architect of monuments. He was exceptionally proud of one of his smallest buildings, a new wing added in 1962 to the classically styled Albright-Knox Gallery of Art in Buffalo, his hometown. The addition was typical of Mr. Bunshaft's stylistic leanings: he made no attempt to echo the classical style of the original museum, but instead set a simple, exceptionally elegant glass-and-marble box gently beside it.
        In addition to the Albright-Knox, Mr. Bunshaft designed three major institutional buildings: the Beinecke Rare Book Library at Yale University, completed in 1963; the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library in Austin, Tex., completed in 1971, and the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, completed in 1974.
        A Sickly Child Who Drew
        Gordon Bunshaft was born on May 9, 1909, to Russian immigrant parents. He was sickly as a child and frequently drew while in bed; a doctor who admired his pictures of houses told his mother that her son should become an architect.
        Mr. Bunshaft attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received both a bachelor's and a master's degree in architecture. He worked briefly for Harold Field Kellogg in Boston and then received a Rotch Traveling Fellowship, which underwrote an extended trip to Europe. There he saw several major works of modern architecture for the first time and met Walter Gropius, a founder of the Bauhaus school, who queried him about the readiness of the United States to accept the cool, crisp architecture of the International Style. Upon his return Mr. Bunshaft settled in New York, where he briefly worked for Edward Durell Stone and Raymond Loewy. Then, in 1937, he accepted a position with the fledgling New York office of the young Chicago architectural firm of Louis Skidmore and Nathaniel Owings, who were setting out to bring modern design to corporate America.
        The Breakthrough: Lever House
        It was with Lever House, commissioned by Charles Luckman to demonstrate the forward-looking presence of the Lever Brothers Company, that Mr. Bunshaft first achieved public renown. It was New York's first major commercial structure with a glass curtain-wall (only the United Nations Secretariat preceded it), and it burst onto the stuffy, solid masonry wall of Park Avenue like a vision of a new world.
        Mr. Bunshaft's design, which involved two slabs of stainless steel and glass, one set horizontally on columns over an open ground floor, the other set vertically above it, brought light and a sense of openness to a street that until then had seemed dark, closed and formal. It was a stunning act of corporate philanthropy, too, since the building was not nearly as large as what zoning permitted on its site, thus preserving open space and light for public benefit.
        After Lever House, which the architectural historian Henry-Russell Hitchcock called ''epoch-making,'' came the rest of the epoch, a series of Bunshaft buildings of nearly equal importance: the Manufacturers Hanover Bank on Fifth Avenue at 43d Street, finished in 1954; Pepsi-Cola, among Mr. Bunshaft's most elegant essays in glass and metal, finished in 1960; One Chase Manhattan Plaza and the Union Carbide Building at 270 Park Avenue (now Manufacturers Hanover Bank), both of 1961, and 140 Broadway, finished in 1964. The last of these, in lower Manhattan, is Mr. Bunshaft's sleekest glass tower, known for the 16-foot red cube by Isamu Noguchi that is balanced on one corner on its front plaza.
        Mr. Bunshaft designed numerous suburban office buildings as well, including the headquarters of Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (now Cigna) in Bloomfield, completed in 1957, and the American Can Company in Greenwich, Conn., finished in 1970.
        Sculpture, Then 'Gardens'
        In the late 1960's and 1970's, his work became more sculptural, in a sense following in a direction set by the Beinecke Library at Yale, a massive box with a central book tower surrounded by squares of translucent marble framed in granite. The interior is as much like a religious building as like a library. But in buildings like the travertine-clad Johnson Library, Mr. Bunshaft seemed to be striving even harder for effect, and the result seemed more like a mausoleum. But he closed his career with a final skyscraper, a 27-story triangular office tower of travertine for the National Commercial Bank in Jeddah with huge loggias that he called ''gardens in the air.'' It was an aggressively sculptural but brilliantly inventive project that ended Mr. Bunshaft's active years on a note of high creativity.
        In 1943 Mr. Bunshaft married Nina Wayler, who survives him. Avid collectors of contemporary art, the couple assembled a large number of major pieces, including works by Miro, Dubuffet, Giacometti, Leger and Noguchi. They lived in Manhattan House, which Mr. Bunshaft's firm had helped to design, and in a house of Mr. Bunshaft's own design in East Hampton.
        Since 1975 Mr. Bunshaft was a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art. He received the Brunner Prize of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1955, and its gold medal in 1984. He also received the Medal of Honor of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. From 1963 to 1972 he was a member of the Commission of Fine Arts in Washington.
        A memorial service will be announced in the fall.
      