
       Thomas J. McDermott, an independent television producer who created many popular shows, including ''Father Knows Best'' and the daytime serials ''As the World Turns'' and ''The Edge of Night,'' died on Saturday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Thomas J. McDermott, an independent television producer who created many popular shows, including ''Father Knows Best'' and the daytime serials ''As the World Turns'' and ''The Edge of Night,'' died on Saturday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        His family said he died after a heart attack.
        Beginning in the early days of television in the late 1940's, Mr. McDermott was a writer, director, producer and head of broadcast programming for Benton & Bowles, the New York advertising agency, where he was responsible for such programs as ''The Prudential Family Hour of Stars'' and ''The Thin Man'' and created prime-time shows starring Danny Thomas, Loretta Young, Ann Sothern and other stars.
        With Shows in Prime Time
        In 1959, he joined the actors Dick Powell, Charles Boyer and David Niven in a company called Four Star Television. The group, which once had 11 shows in prime time each week, produced ''Wanted: Dead or Alive,'' starring Steve McQueen; ''The Rogues,'' with Mr. Niven, Mr. Boyer and Gig Young, and ''The Big Valley,'' with Barbara Stanwyck, Lee Majors and Linda Evans, among other programs.
        When Mr. Powell died in 1963, Mr. McDermott became president and chief executive of Four Star, a post he held until the company was sold in 1970 to a business syndicate. He then became vice president in charge of progam development for RCA Select-a-Vision.
        Returning to producing in 1976, Mr. McDermott joined Jack Wrather to turn out several television and theatrical films, including ''The Magic of Lassie,'' starring James Stewart and Mickey Rooney, and a two-hour musical television special, ''Cinderella at the Palace,'' featuring Frank Sinatra, Ann-Margaret and Gene Kelly.
        Another Company Is Formed
        After Mr. Wrather's death in 1985, Mr. McDermott formed Seabook Entertainment to distribute, among other television series and theatrical films, ''Lassie,'' ''The Lone Ranger'' and ''Sergeant Preston of the Yukon.'' The company was sold in 1987 to a group of bankers for $40 million. At his death, Mr. McDermott was involved in several television projects with the writer and producer Judith Stein.
        Mr. McDermott was born in Manhattan and was a graduate of Manhattan College.
        He is survived by a wife, the former stage actress Anne Burr; a daughter, Maggie, of Boston; twin sons, Burr, of Manhattan, and Michael, a student in Beijing, and a sister, Mary Fitch of Union City, N.J.
      