
       Julius Lipsett, owner of Lipsett Inc., the demolition and salvage company responsible for tearing down the old Pennsylvania Station, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        Julius Lipsett, owner of Lipsett Inc., the demolition and salvage company responsible for tearing down the old Pennsylvania Station, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Lipsett died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        He was born in Rochester and left school at 13 to take a job in the circulation department of the Hearst newspapers in Rochester. In 1927 he joined his brother, Morris, in the demolition business.
        Over the years Lipsett Inc. grew to be one of the nation's largest demolition companies, with a reputation for undertaking complex engineering projects.
        In 1941 it was responsible for razing the Second Avenue El. The day after newspapers carried the story of the concern winning the bid for the demolition, letters from souvenir hunters poured in. Riders of the El wanted some of the station's colored windowpanes, some of the turnstiles and the potbellied stoves. One rider even asked, without explanation, for a 2 1/2-inch bolt.
        Built a Subway Line
        In 1947 the company's salvaging of the sunken liner Normandy attracted national attention. In 1955 the company brought down the Third Avenue El and in 1963, it tore down the old Penn Station. The company also cleared the land for Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village.
        The brothers also went into construction as a sort of balance. They ran a transmission line from Fort Randall Dam across South Dakota; built a subway line in Philadelphia, and ran a tunnel through a mountain in Lehighton, Pa. Morris Lipsett died in 1986. Julius Lipsett is survived by his wife, the former Betty Rosen; a daughter, Audrey Goldberg of Manhattan; a son, Shelly, of Westport, Conn.; three sisters, Hyaline Starr and Victoria Lipsett, both of Rochester, and Gretchen Schandle of Laguna Niguel, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      