
       Phil David Fine, a lawyer who played an important role in several major development projects in Massachusetts, died Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 64 years old and lived in Boston.
        Phil David Fine, a lawyer who played an important role in several major development projects in Massachusetts, died Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 64 years old and lived in Boston.
        His family said the cause of death was heart failure.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Fine assembled the investment group that built Schaefer Stadium, now Foxboro Stadium, outside Boston for the New England Patriots football team. The stadium was the first since the 1920's to be built solely with private financing.
        Revival of Languishing Plan
        He was also instrumental in the redevelopment of Faneuil Hall Marketplace in Boston, the first of several projects in historic areas of Eastern cities undertaken by the Rouse Company of Maryland. The proposal had been languishing for a decade when he won approval in 1973 for Rouse to restore Faneuil Hall, then a decaying property in the heart of Boston that dated to Revolutionary times. The exteriors of the market buildings were preserved, and shops, restaurants and other services were housed inside.
        To clear the way for the construction of Exchange Place, a 40-story skyscraper using the facade of the old Boston Stock Exchange, Mr. Fine worked out design compromises with city officials and preservation interests permitting his client, Olympia & York of Toronto, to start the project.
        In recent years he was a consultant to the Government of Israel and the City of Jerusalem on construction of the Mamilla project, the largest urban development effort in that country.
        Mr. Fine, who was born in Brookline, Mass., was a graduate of Northeastern University and the Boston University School of Law. He was a founding partner of the law firm of Fine & Ambrogne in Boston and later of White, Fine & Verville in Washington.
        In 1961 and 1962, he was Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration in the Kennedy Administration. He was a founder of the Commonwealth Bank of Boston in 1964.
        Mr. Fine was an overseer and trustee of Northeastern University. He was president of the American Jewish Historical Society for two years before becoming its chairman last May.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Norma Loew; three daughters, Susan and Debra, both of Manhattan, and Lauri Friedman of Haifa, Israel; two sisters, Tina Mintz of Norwood, Mass., and Leona Vetstein of Newton, Mass.; a brother, Ralph, of Boston, and four grandchildren.
      