
       Albert Rose, a research scientist whose work in converting optical images to electrical signals led to the development of the modern television picture tube, died on Thursday at the Princeton Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 80 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Albert Rose, a research scientist whose work in converting optical images to electrical signals led to the development of the modern television picture tube, died on Thursday at the Princeton Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 80 years old and lived in Princeton.
        He died of lung cancer, a family member said.
        Dr. Rose, who joined the technical staff at the Radio Corporation of America in 1935 after graduating with a Ph.D. in physics from Cornell University, has been called the father of electronic imaging for his invention of the image orthicon television camera tube. The image orthicon was developed during World War II for military purposes and later served as the electronic eye for all television cameras during the initial years of television broadcasting.
        After the war, Dr. Rose was head of a group of scientists at RCA who built the first photoconductive sensor, a class of tube now used for television studio broadcasting and for high-definition television.
        Headed Research Labs
        In 1955, he was named director of a research laboratory that he helped establish for RCA Laboratories in Zurich. Two years later, he returned to the RCA-David Sarnoff Research Center in Princeton and continued there until he retired in 1975. He was then appointed Fairchild Distinguished Scholar at the California Institute of Technology and was later a visiting professor at universities in the United States, Israel and Mexico. Until recently, he also worked as a consultant.
        He was a member of several professional societies and wrote many technical papers and three books.
        He received many honors, including the Morris Liebman Award from the Institute of Radio Engineers in 1946, the Television Broadcasters Award, the Journal Award of the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers, the RCA-David Sarnoff Outstanding Achievement Award and the Edison Medal of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He was also elected to the National Academy of Engineering.
        In 1986, the Institute for Graphic Communications created the Albert Rose Electronic Imager of the Year award in his honor. In 1989, he was awarded an honorary degree by the Rochester Institute of Technology.
        He is survived by his wife, Lillian; a son, Mark, of Mendham, N.J.; a daughter, Jane Speiser, who lives in Italy; a brother, Martin Rosenblum of Middletown, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      