
       Richard L. Strout, the acerbic nonconformist who wrote the ''TRB From Washington'' political column in The New Republic for 40 years and was Washington correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor for more than 60 years, died Sunday at the Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 92 years old and lived in
        Richard L. Strout, the acerbic nonconformist who wrote the ''TRB From Washington'' political column in The New Republic for 40 years and was Washington correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor for more than 60 years, died Sunday at the Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 92 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Strout had been in the hospital since Aug. 8, when he suffered a fall, said Richard J. Cattani, editor of The Monitor.
        As the pseudonymous TRB from 1943 to 1983, Mr. Strout was one of the country's most widely followed liberal columnists. He once compared Senator Joseph R. McCarthy to ''a mist that carries lethal contagion,'' and in 1958 he wrote of Vice President Richard M. Nixon, ''He is out for the kill and the scalp at any cost.''
        ''When I took the job, I was advised that the column was easy to write,'' he said in 1968. ''Just get mad at someone once a week and spit in his eye.''
        A Passionate Liberal
        But Mr. Strout's voice was seldom merely angry. His liberalism was passionate and his outlook broad. In his first column, at the height of World War II, he called for a national statement of postwar aims, saying, ''When a man dies, he wants to die for something important.''
        ''The rich stay rich in the U.S., and the poor, poor, and the gulf between them hardly changes,'' another column began. ''America's disparity of income is the single most significant and sinister social fact in the nation. Everything comes back to that.''
        Mr. Strout succeeded Kenneth Crawford as the column's writer. The name TRB, the initials of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit system in reverse, was coined by Bruce Bliven, the magazine's onetime editor, who used to rush copy to the printer by subway in the days when it was published in New York.
        Mr. Strout shunned entangling alliances with Washington politicians and avoided the round of Georgetown cocktail parties. He covered 12 Presidents, from Warren G. Harding to Ronald Reagan, and national scandals from Teapot Dome to Watergate. He characterized Calvin Coolidge as ''a sharp, unimaginative Yankee who took lots of naps'' and Herbert Hoover as ''a towering figure in many ways, caught in a Greek tragedy he never understood.'' The greatest President, he wrote, was Franklin D. Roosevelt, ''a superb combination of Machiavelli's lion and fox.''
        To Washington in a Model T
        Richard Lee Strout was born in Cohoes, N.Y., on March 14, 1898, and raised in Brooklyn. After graduating from Harvard University in 1919, he worked his way across the Atlantic on a grain ship and began his career as a confidential assistant to the editor of The Sheffield Independent in England. He returned to the United States in 1921 and worked briefly for The Boston Post, then moved to The Monitor.
        In 1923, after receiving a master's degree in economics from Harvard, he drove his Model T Ford to The Monitor's Washington bureau, where he remained until his retirement in 1984.
        He won many awards, including a Pulitzer Prize for lifetime achievement in 1978 and the George Polk Memorial Award for national reporting in 1958.
        In his last TRB column, on the crisis in Soviet-American relations in April 1983, he wrote: ''Presidents come and Presidents go. You can measure passage of time, I think, by counting the things we knew couldn't happen.'' After listing events like school desegregation and the election of a Catholic President, he added, ''And there was another absolute: America couldn't lose a war.''
        Mr. Strout's first wife, Edith Mayne, died in 1932.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ernestine Wilke; four daughters, Elizabeth Zimmmerman of Minneapolis, Mary Rubeiz of Geneva, Phyllis Norris of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Nancy Dulaney of Washington; a son, Alan M. of Weston, Mass., 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      