
       Ed Emshwiller, who created avant-garde films and videotapes, died on July 26 at the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital in Valencia, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Ed Emshwiller, who created avant-garde films and videotapes, died on July 26 at the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital in Valencia, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        He had been undergoing chemotherapy for cancer, said Robert Haller, the library director of the Anthology Film Archives in Manhattan.
        Mr. Emshwiller was the provost and dean of film and video at the California Institute of the Arts in Valencia.
        His works were shown at museums, including the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Museum of Modern Art. A retrospective of his work in film and video is planned next year at the Anthology Film Archives.
        'An Extraordinary Command'
        ''Ed Emshwiller used the human body, especially in dance, as an instrument for metaphysical comment,'' Mr. Haller said. ''He had an extraordinary command of the technical aspects of film and video making, and used techniques like double exposure to create images you could never see in real life.''
        For instance, in ''Film with Three Dancers'' (1970), he said, dancers initially presented in a realistic manner are later seen ''swimming'' through one another's bodies.
        Mr. Emshwiller, who was born in East Lansing, Mich., received a bachelor of design degree from the University of Michigan in 1949 and studied graphics at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris and at the Art Students League of New York. He was a painter and science-fiction illustrator before turning to film.
        Starting with a five-minute film, ''Thanatopsis'' (1962), his films won prizes at festivals and were shown frequently at universities and museums in the United States and abroad.
        In 1970, he began making experimental videotapes. He also combined film, television and computer images with live dance, as he did in his last completed work, ''Hunger,'' which was made with Morton Subotnik and which was presented in October at the Ars Electronica Festival in Linz, Austria.
        He taught at schools including Yale, the University of California at Berkeley and Cornell.
        He is survived by his wife, Carol; a brother, Max; a son, Peter, and two daughters, Susan and Eve.
      