
       Dr. George M. Parks, dean of Pace University's Lubin Schools of Business, died on Saturday while scuba diving in Bermuda, the university said yesterday. He was 56 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        Dr. George M. Parks, dean of Pace University's Lubin Schools of Business, died on Saturday while scuba diving in Bermuda, the university said yesterday. He was 56 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        Dr. Parks, who was known to colleagues and friends as ''Chip,'' was an experienced diver. Herb Falk, the university's director of information, said Dr. Parks and a son, Christopher, 20 years old, were exploring a shipwreck at a depth of about 80 feet a mile off Bermuda's southern shore.
        Dr. Parks, having used his air supply faster than his son and other divers, returned to the surface. He was unconscious when he was taken from the water and was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital.
        He had been dean of the Lubin Schools for the last four years. From 1979 to 1986 he was dean and a professor of management at the Emory University School of Business.
        A Native of Manhattan
        Before that he spent 15 years on the faculty of the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce at the University of Pennsylvania, where he served as associate director of its graduate division and director of its M.B.A. program.
        A native of Manhattan, Dr. Parks held a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Princeton, a master's in industrial management from the Stevens Institute of Technology and master's and doctoral degrees from the University of California at Berkeley.
        For several years he was an industrial engineer with the Colgate-Palmolive Company and an operations research specialist at Berkeley. He was the author of more than 20 books and technical papers dealing with industrial engineering and management science and was a consultant to many business and government agencies.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Virginia Schlam; two daughters, Elizabeth, of Cambridge, Mass., and Amanda, of Rye; two sons, Stephen, of Cold Spring, N.Y., and Christopher, of Rye, and a sister, Ann Widmer of Katonah, N.Y.
      