
       Ethyl Eichelberger, a flamboyant presence on the New York theatrical scene for the last 15 years as an actor, performance artist, clown and playwright, died over the weekend at his home on Staten Island. Black-Eyed Susan, an actress who was a frequent leading lady in his plays, said that he had AIDS and had committed suicide by slashing his wrists.
        Ethyl Eichelberger, a flamboyant presence on the New York theatrical scene for the last 15 years as an actor, performance artist, clown and playwright, died over the weekend at his home on Staten Island. Black-Eyed Susan, an actress who was a frequent leading lady in his plays, said that he had AIDS and had committed suicide by slashing his wrists. He was 45 years old.
        His body was discovered on Sunday morning by Lola Pashalinski, an actress, and Linda Chapman, a director.
        Mr. Eichelberger performed both male and female roles with equal panache. In more than 30 plays of his own creation, he portrayed a gallery of characters that included Casanova, Medusa and Abraham and Mary Todd Lincoln.
        In ''Leer,'' his zany one-man condensation of ''King Lear,'' he played the King, the Fool and Cordelia while accompanying himself on the accordion, concertina and piano. For climatic effect, he also rumbled a thundersheet. With the versatility of a circus artist, he often ate fire and did cartwheels on stage, all of which came to be known as his signature. Most of his skills were self-taught.
        Upsetting the Classics
        Mr. Eichelberger performed on Broadway (as the Ballad Singer who sings ''Mack the Knife'' in John Dexter's revival of ''The Threepenny Opera'') as well as in the experimental theater. His art had a firm comedic base.
        He described himself as a storyteller who specialized in classics, but classics never were the same once Mr. Eichelberger offered his interpretation. He re-invented ''Medea,'' mixed ''The Royal Family'' with Corneille's ''Nicomedes'' and in ''Dilbert Dingle-Dong'' adapted Moliere's ''George Dandin.'' His last produced work, ''Das Vedanya Mama,'' was a variation on Chekhov. For Black-Eyed Susan, he wrote versions of ''St. Joan'' and ''Hamlet'' (retitled ''Hamlette'' to accommodate a woman in the title role).
        Mr. Eichelberger was born to Amish parents on July 17, 1945, and was named James Roy. He grew up in Pekin, Ill. After studying theater at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., he attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York. For seven years he acted with the Trinity Square Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., under the direction of Adrian Hall.
        Movie Still to Come
        Coming to New York, he worked with Charles Ludlam and the Ridiculous Theatrical Company, perfecting his flair for comedy and his craftmanship as a wig maker. In 1975, he legally changed his first name. As his reputation grew, he began making forays into mainstream theater, doubling as the courtesan and the abbess in the Flying Karamazov Brothers production of ''The Comedy of Errors'' at Lincoln Center. He plays himself in Oliver Stone's next movie, ''The Doors,'' about Jim Morrison.
      