
       Gilbert Lesser, a designer of theater posters and a former promotion director for Life magazine, died on Tuesday at the Milstein Hospital of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Gilbert Lesser, a designer of theater posters and a former promotion director for Life magazine, died on Tuesday at the Milstein Hospital of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Lesser died of cancer, said John Toland, his companion of many years.
        Mr. Lesser designed theater posters for such productions as ''Equus''(1974), ''The Elephant Man''(1979) ''Frankenstein'' (1981) and ''Morning's at Seven'' (1980). Eighty of his posters were exhibited at the Louvre in 1987 and at the Design Museum in London in 1989.
        His work is included in the permanent design collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Museum of the City of New York. He also designed promotional programs for Charm and Mademoiselle magazines, for Studio 54, the Smithsonian Institution and the International Center of Photography.
        International Consultant
        In addition to the Life magazine post, Mr. Lesser served as promotion art director of Fortune and Money magazines, also part of Time Inc., during his career. In 1987, he founded Gilbert Lesser/INCR Inc., international design consultants. He produced the logo for the European Economic Council convocation in Paris, and most recently the poster for the 1990 Caramoor Music Festival.
        Mr. Lesser also designed costume and stage sets. Among the productions on which he worked were Jean Giraudoux's ''Duel of the Angels'' and Edward Albee's ''Zoo Story'' and ''The American Dream.'' He also designed the sets for the Opera Company of Philadelphia productions of ''Peter Grimes,'' ''Mefistofele'' and ''Fidelio.''
        He was born in Baltimore and graduated from the Maryland Institute's College of Art and from Johns Hopkins University.
        He is survived by his father, Nathan Lesser of St. Petersburg, Fla., and a sister, Elaine Hinkle of Rockville, Md.
      