
       John M. Stalnaker, a psychologist, educator and former president of the corporation that selects high school students as National Merit Scholars, died Sunday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 years old.
        John M. Stalnaker, a psychologist, educator and former president of the corporation that selects high school students as National Merit Scholars, died Sunday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 years old.
        His son John said he died of lymphatic cancer.
        Mr. Stalnaker, who once described himself as ''a broker in brains,'' was founding president and a director of the National Merit Scholarship Corporation, based in Evanston, Ill., from its establishment by the Ford Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation in 1955 until his retirement in 1969.
        The small, efficient nonprofit organization now channels scholarship aid from 425 corporations and foundations and 200 colleges and universities to more than 30,000 students, 8,000 of them selected each year.
        In 1962, Mr. Stalnaker was appointed by President John F. Kennedy to the Board of Foreign Scholarships, which supervised the educational exchange programs under the Fulbright-Hays Act. He was chairman from 1962 to 1964 and served until 1967.
        The Pepsi-Cola Scholars
        Throughout his career, Mr. Stalnaker combined testing and administrative work with the teaching of psychology. He taught and did adminstrative work at the Universities of Chicago and Minnesota and at Purdue, Princeton and Stanford Universities, and was dean of students at Stanford after World War II.
        At Stanford, he set up the Pepsi-Cola Scholarship Board, a $2 million five-year program that ended in 1950 but later set the pattern for the National Merit Scholarship Corporation.
        Mr. Stalnaker was born in Duluth, Minn., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Chicago, where he later did graduate work.
        From 1926 to 1930 he was an insructor in psychology and special research assistant to the president of Purdue. In 1936, he went to Princeton, where he also worked for the College Entrance Examination Board from 1936 to 1945.
        He received the Navy's Distinguished Civilian Service Award and the Presidential Certificate of Merit for his World War II work with the National Research Council and the National Defense Research Committee.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edna Fager; two sons, John C. of Cincinnati and Robert C. of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Judith Aycock of Sanger, Tex.; a sister, Ruth Markley of Menlo Park, Calif.; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      