
       Edmund H. North, a screenwriter who shared an Academy Award with Francis Ford Coppola in 1970 for their script for ''Patton,'' died Tuesday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Brentwood, Calif.
        Edmund H. North, a screenwriter who shared an Academy Award with Francis Ford Coppola in 1970 for their script for ''Patton,'' died Tuesday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Brentwood, Calif.
        He died of pneumonia, a family spokesman said.
        The spectacularly successful epic about Gen. George S. Patton Jr. won seven Oscars, including those for best picture, best actor (George C. Scott) and best director (Franklin J. Schaffner).
        The film critic Leonard Maltin hailed ''Patton'' as ''a milestone in screen biographies'' and ''an intelligently written, finely wrought biographical war drama.'' Mr. North, in accepting his Oscar, remarked, ''I hope it's not just a war picture, but a peace picture.''
        Among his two dozen scripts, written alone or in collaboration, were ''One Night of Love'' (1934), starring Grace Moore; ''Young Man With a Horn'' (1950), with Kirk Douglas as an alcoholic jazz musician; the 1951 science-fiction classic ''The Day the Earth Stood Still''; ''Sink the Bismarck!'' (1960), and ''Damn the Defiant'' (1962).
        Active in Writers Guild
        The slim writer, whom colleagues described yesterday as a thoughtful, fair-minded man, was a former president of the screen branch of the Writers Guild of America and a chairman of its pension fund. He served on more than 40 committees of the union, including its contract-bargaining panel.
        Edmund Hall North was born in Manhattan on March 12, 1911, to Bobby North and Stella Maury, troupers in vaudeville and the Ziegfeld Follies. He toured with them throughout his childhood. He began writing plays while attending Culver Military Academy in Indiana and Stanford University. In World War II he made training and educational films for the Army Signal Corps, rising to the rank of major.
        Surviving are his wife, Collette; two daughters, Susan North Meadow of Los Angeles and Bobbie, of Brentwood, and two grandchildren.
      