
       Thomas M. Macioce, a lawyer and former chairman and chief executive officer of the Allied Stores Corporation, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Brookville, L.I.
        Thomas M. Macioce, a lawyer and former chairman and chief executive officer of the Allied Stores Corporation, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Brookville, L.I.
        He died of leukemia, family members said.
        Mr. Macioce (pronounced mass-ee-OH-see), was head of Allied from 1970 until 1987, when control of the department store chain, one of the largest in the United States, was acquired by the Campeau Corporation of Canada. He subsequently became a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Shea & Gould.
        When he joined Allied as a vice president in 1960, the company's earnings were depressed as a result of too many acquisitions and unprofitable stores. He became president in 1970, chief executive in 1972 and chairman in 1981.
        Jordan Marsh and Garfinckel's
        Mr. Macioce was credited with turning the giant company around, selling stores that were performing poorly and, beginning in the mid-1970's, buying well-positioned department stores and specialty chains. When he left after the Campeau takeover, Allied operated 684 stores and had annual sales of $4.14 billion.
        Although it has long had its headquarters in New York, Allied has not been a major force in the city for years. During Mr. Macioce's reign Allied acquired Bonwit Teller, Plymouth Shops and Brooks Brothers. But the only major New York department store under the Allied umbrella was Stern's on 42d Street, which closed in 1969 and now operates only in suburban locations.
        The Allied chain during his tenure included several venerable stores, among them Jordan Marsh of Boston and Miami, Garfinckel's of Washington, Miller & Rhoads of Richmond and Maas Brothers of Tampa, Fla.
        Mr. Macioce, who was born in East Harlem to parents who emigrated from Italy, won a scholarship to Columbia College, where he was captain of the basketball team, before going on to the Columbia Law School. He served in the Navy in World War II, rising to the rank of lieutenant commander.
        Active in Roman Catholic Groups
        Before entering the retail field, Mr. Macioce spent four years in the legal department of the Flintkote Company, six years as a vice president of Bloomsburg Mills and three years as president of the factoring concern of L. F. Dommerich & Company, which purchased accounts receivable from companies that wanted immediate cash. Long prominent in Roman Catholic activities, Mr. Macioce was a Knight of Malta and a Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulcher. He was president of the Inner-City Scholarship Fund of the New York Archdiocese.
        He was a trustee of St. John's and Adelphi Universities and a former trustee of Columbia, which gave him its highest award, the Alexander Hamilton Medal, in 1984.
        Mr. Macioce is survived by his wife, the former Francesca Spinelli; a daughter, Francesca Beach of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a brother, Frank, of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      