
       Stevie Ray Vaughan, one of the nation's top blues guitarists, and four other people were killed in a helicopter crash here early today after a performance with Eric Clapton at an outdoor theater. Mr. Vaughan was 35 years old.
        Stevie Ray Vaughan, one of the nation's top blues guitarists, and four other people were killed in a helicopter crash here early today after a performance with Eric Clapton at an outdoor theater. Mr. Vaughan was 35 years old.
        The helicopter, owned by Omni Flight Helicopters Inc., crashed into a hill shortly after midnight after taking off in dense fog, said Bill Bruce, an investigator with the Naitonal Transportation Safety Board.
        The other victims were the pilot and three members of Mr. Clapton's entourage. There were no survivors. Those killed were Bobby Brooks, Mr. Clapton's agent; Nigel Browne, his bodyguard; Colin Smythe, one of his tour managers; and the pilot, Jeffrey Brown.
        Mr. Vaughan, a native of Dallas, won Grammy Awards this year and in 1985.
        Mr. Clapton and another blues performer in the Sunday night show, Robert Cray, were in another helicopter, which landed safely in Chicago. the helicopter that crashed was to have landed at Chicago's Midway Airport.
        Performance at Theater
        The musicians had appeared together at the Alpine Valley Theater, an outdoor auditorium near the alpine Valley Ski Resort in southern Wisconsin, about 75 miles northwest of Chicago.
        Mr. Clapton issued a statement through his spokesman, Ronnie Lippin, saying that the victims ''were my companions, my associates and my friends,'' and adding, ''This is a tragic loss of some very special people.''
        After the helicopter was reported missing, the Civil Air Patrol discovered the wreckage in a field early this morning. The area was cordoned off today. The cause of the crash has not been determined.
        Air crashes have killed several prominent rock performers over the years, including Buddy Holly, Richie Valens, Otis Redding, Jim Croce and Rick Nelson.
        Brother Is a Guitarist
        Mr. Vaughans brother, Jimmie, was the guitarist for The Fabulous Thunderbirds, popular Texas band. The brothers ad recently collaborated on an album.
        In 1985 Mr. Vaughan shared a Grammy Award with other musicians for the Album, ''Blues Explosion,'' in the traditional blues category. He also won a Grammy Award this year inthe contemporary category, for his album, ''In Step.''
        Mr. Vaughan is perhaps best known for his album, ''Couldn't Stand the Weather,'' released in 1984. About 25,000 people attended his concert on Sunday night. Besides his brother, Mr. Vaughan is survived by his mother, Martha.
      