
       Norman Maclean, a professor of English who turned his hand to fiction in retirement and wrote an acclaimed book about fishing, died yesterday at his home in the Hyde Park district of Chicago. He was 87 years old.
        Norman Maclean, a professor of English who turned his hand to fiction in retirement and wrote an acclaimed book about fishing, died yesterday at his home in the Hyde Park district of Chicago. He was 87 years old.
        His family said he had been in poor health for a year.
        In 1976, Mr. Maclean published ''A River Runs Through It and Other Stories,'' a semiautobiographical work of two novellas and a short story. Set in Montana, where Mr. Maclean grew up, the stories focused on life close to nature and on his brother, logging, mule-skinning, trail-cutting and, most of all, fishing and fly-fishing.
        The opening paragraph of the title story indicates Mr. Maclean's high regard for the sport: ''In our family, there was no clear line between religion and fly fishing. We lived at the junction of great trout rivers in western Montana, and our father was a Presbyterian minister and a fly fisherman who tied his own flies and taught others. He told us about Christ's disciples being fishermen, and we were left to assume, as my brother and I did, that all first-class fishermen on the Sea of Galilee were fly fishermen.''
        Movie Rights Sold
        The Pulitzer Prize jury of 1977 selected the book as the year's pre-eminent work of fiction. But the Pulitzer advisory board rejected the choice.
        Joel Snyder, Mr. Maclean's son-in-law, whose photographs of Montana's Blackfoot River appear in the book, said yesterday that Robert Redford had bought the movie rights to ''A River Runs Through It.''
        Before Mr. Maclean died he finished a second work of fiction, ''Young Men and Fire.'' It has not been published. While a teacher, Mr. Maclean also published two nonfiction books, ''A Manual of Instruction in Military Maps and Aerial Photographs'' and ''The Theory of Lyric Poetry from the Renaissance to Coleridge.''
        Mr. Maclean, who was the William Rainey Harper Professor of English at the University of Chicago, taught there from 1930 to 1973. He received his Ph.D. there in 1940 and was a three-time winner of the university's Quantrell Prize for excellence in teaching undergraduates.
        From 1943 to 1945 he was the acting director of the university's Institute of Military Studies.
        Mr. Maclean's wife, Jessie Burns Maclean, died in 1968. He is survived by a son, John N. Maclean; a daughter, Jean Maclean Snyder, and four grandchildren.
      