
       Morley Callaghan, a Canadian writer who lived in Paris in the 1920's and mixed with Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, died Saturday, his son Barry said today. He was 87 years oldandlived in Toronto. The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Morley Callaghan, a Canadian writer who lived in Paris in the 1920's and mixed with Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, died Saturday, his son Barry said today. He was 87 years oldandlived in Toronto. The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Through his long writing career, Morley Callaghan's hard-boiled style won him critical praise in his native Canada and throughout the English-speaking world. Less famous than some of his fellow expatriates, he survived them and continued writing well into his 80's. The critic Edmund Wilson considered Mr. Callaghan a far more important writer than the public generally thought.
        Mr. Callaghan's first novel, ''Strange Fugitive,'' appeared in 1928. ''The Wild Old Man of the Road'' was published exactly 60 years later. In between, his short stories in The New Yorker, Harper's Bazaar, Esquire and The Saturday Evening Post, among other publications, totaled well over 100.
        Mr. Callaghan's spare style and detailed realism has been compared to Hemingway's and Erskine Caldwell's. Though he often wrote in the same genre as Hemingway, Caldwell and William Faulkner, critics nevertheless noted his own unmistakable voice in Mr. Callaghan's novels and short stories.
        Knocked Down Hemingway
        But the single incident in his life best remembered by most readers involved Hemingway and Fitzgerald in a casual bout of fisticuffs in which the young Mr. Callaghan floored Hemingway, a totem of American macho.
        There were several versions of the episode, differing more as time passed. Mr. Callaghan's was contained in his most successful work, ''That Summer in Paris'' (1963), a highly acclaimed memoir of the months in 1929 when his friendship with the two Americans, as well as the close relationship between the latter two, ended in bitterness.
        Mr. Callaghan was a college student working part time for The Toronto Star in 1920 when Hemingway was its star reporter. The writer was impressed with the younger man's literary ambitions, and they struck up a friendship.
        Meeting in Paris in 1929, Hemingway proposed that they box at the American Club. At 6 feet and 200 pounds, Hemingway was four inches taller than Mr. Callaghan, who was out of shape but figured that, being 14 years younger, he might come out ahead.
        At some of those matches Joan Miro, the Catalan painter, served as volunteer timekeeper. But at the most famous meet, Fitzgerald took that ringside position. According to Mr. Callaghan's memoir, the boxers agreed on one-minute rounds with two-minute rests in between. Hemingway, he recalled, bore in fast, using up his wind; Fitzgerald, engrossed with the Canadian's counterpunches, forgot to call time; and when Hemingway lunged, Mr. Callaghan struck him squarely on the jaw, bloodying him and downing him hard on his back.
        ''Oh, my God,'' Fitzgerald supposedly cried in anguish, ''I let the round go four minutes.'' But Hemingway, according to Mr. Callaghan, thought the lapse had been deliberate, causing the incident to take on mythic proportions in the Hemingway legend and prompting tensions and estrangement among the three men.
        Wrote Past the 20's
        Edmund Wilson, in a 1960 essay, called Mr. Callaghan ''perhaps the most unjustly neglected novelist in the English-speaking world.'' At the same time, Wilson conceded that his subject ''belonged to the literary scene of the 20's'' and that even people who remembered him probably thought ''he was dead.''
        But Mr. Callaghan continued writing. His early work had been encouraged by praise from the likes of Hemingway, Ring Lardner and Wolcott Gibbs, and it was published by Ezra Pound, Ford Madox Ford and Harold Ross.
        Born in Toronto, Mr. Callaghan trained as a lawyer but never practiced. He moved to Paris after the publication of his first novel, writing full-time. Before returning to Toronto, he also lived in New York and on a farm in Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Callaghan once observed that success may have come to him too early, with three novels published by Charles Scriber's Sons, before he turned 30. In Wilson's view, the underestimation of Mr. Callaghan's true stature ''may have been a general incapacity - apparently shared by his compatriots - for believing that a writer whose work may be mentioned without absurdity in association with Chekhov's and Turgenev's can possibly be functioning in Toronto.''
        In 1970, the Canada Council, a quasi-Governmental body, partly made up for the neglect by honoring Mr. Callaghan with a Molson Award carrying $15,000.
        His best-known titles also include ''They Shall Inherit the Earth'' (1935), ''The Loved and the Lost'' (1955), ''A Many-Colored Coat'' (1960), ''A Passion in Rome'' (1961) and ''A Fine and Private Place'' (1975).
        Mr. Callaghan is survived by his sons, Michael and Barry.
      