
       Jacques Soustelle, an anthropologist and former Cabinet minister who was one of the leaders of an underground movement that fought against Algerian independence, died Tuesday in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was not reported.  Dr. Soustelle, who was named to the Academie Francaise in 1983, was one of Europe's foremost experts on pre-Colombian civilizations in Mexico, on which he wrote several authoritative studies.
        Jacques Soustelle, an anthropologist and former Cabinet minister who was one of the leaders of an underground movement that fought against Algerian independence, died Tuesday in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was not reported.  Dr. Soustelle, who was named to the Academie Francaise in 1983, was one of Europe's foremost experts on pre-Colombian civilizations in Mexico, on which he wrote several authoritative studies.
        He was among the first to rally to General de Gaulle's appeal from London on June 18, 1940, to fight the Vichy Government that collaborated with Nazi Germany. He traveled on secret missions for General de Gaulle's Free French government through Latin America, and by 1943 was promoted to head the Free French secret service.
        Governor-General in Algeria
        After the liberation of France in 1944, he became Minister of Information and, later, Minister of Colonies. In 1955, he was appointed Governor-General of Algeria by Prime Minister Pierre Mendes-France.
        Initially the appointment of a liberal intellectual caused some trepidation in Algeria's European settler community, which was engaged in a fierce struggle with the anti-colonial National Liberation Front.
        Dr. Soustelle, however, soon came to believe that Algerian independence would be a disaster both for Algeria and France and espoused the cause of European supremacy over Algerian Arabs. He was withdrawn by the Socialist Government in 1956, but when General de Gaulle returned to power in 1958, Dr. Soustelle once more became Minister of Information and then a Deputy Foreign Minister.
        Quit the Government
        In 1962, Algerian independence pitted Dr. Soustelle, who strongly opposed it, against the general. Mr. Soustelle quit the Government, and, along with Georges Bidault, a wartime head of the French resistance, and Gen. Raoul Salan, former commander in chief in Algiers, formed a clandestine organization, the Secret Army, which attempted two coups to bring down the de Gaulle Government and a series of attempts on the general's life.
        In 1962, Dr. Soustelle, a native of Montpellier in southern France, the son of a Protestant railway worker and his wife, was charged with ''attempts against the state'' and fled the country, spending seven years in exile. After the National Assembly approved a general amnesty for all political prisoners, he returned to France at 58 and devoted himself increasingly to academic life.
        Dr. Soustelle is survived by his wife, Dr. Georgette Fagot, a Tunis-born anthropologist.
      