
       Kenneth J. Germeshausen, a founder of the technology company E. G. & G. Inc., whose work was considered fundamental in the development of radar and nuclear weapons, died Thursday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        Kenneth J. Germeshausen, a founder of the technology company E. G. & G. Inc., whose work was considered fundamental in the development of radar and nuclear weapons, died Thursday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Germeshausen died of Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Polly, said.
        A scientist and inventor, he was one of three founders of the electronics company in 1947; its initials stand for the three founders' names, Edgerton, Germeshausen and Grier. E. G. & G., based in Wellesley, Mass., makes precision timing and control equipment used in nuclear explosives.
        Mr. Germeshausen was the company's vice president and treasurer from 1947 to 1954. He was president from 1954 to 1965 and chairman from 1965 to 1972, when he retired.
        Research into high-speed photography at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology brought Dr. Edgerton and his associates, Herbert Grier and Mr. Germeshausen, together. During World War II, they worked on Government projects, and later formed the company to work with the Government at the Nevada nuclear test sites.
        Atomic Firing Mechanisms
        The work by Mr. Germeshausen and his colleagues in high-speed photography and stroboscobic devices, and in generating and measuring short-duration, high-energy pulses, proved to be basic to the development of radar modulators and firing mechanisms for atomic weapons.
        Mr. Germeshausen was born in Woodland, Calif., and graduated from M.I.T. in 1931. He held more than 50 patents covering electronic circuits, gaseous discharge tubes and other devices. His inventions include photographic flash lamps, high-speed electrical energy switches, and gaseous discharge tubes.
        He received many awards including, in 1986, the Marshal B. Dalton award from M.I.T.; in 1989, the New England Inventor of the Year Award from the Boston Museum of Science; and in 1990, the first annual award by the Defense Department for technical achievement, which was then named the Germeshausen Award.
        Among his professional affiliations, he was a fellow and life member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and a member of the Academy of Applied Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Polly Seltzer; a daughter, Nancy Klavams of Merion Station, Pa.; and two granddaughters.
      