
       Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center here. He was 47 years old.
        Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center here. He was 47 years old.
        He died of an AIDS-related illness, said members of the Vajradhatu International Buddhist Church in Boulder, Colo.
        Mr. Tendzin, the church's regent, announced in December 1988 that he had AIDS, and resisted calls from church members that he resign.
        ''A lot of members had difficulty accepting that he was sick,'' said a church member who refused to give his name. ''It's been quite difficult for a lot of students of our church. There have been a lot of different versions of reality.''
        Vajradhatu, which has 3,000 to 5,000 followers in the United States, Canada and Europe, was founded in Boulder by Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, a Tibetan Buddhist who fled the Chinese invasion of Tibet in the 1950's and settled in Boulder.
        First Westerner Named Regent
        Mr. Tendzin, who was born in Passaic, N.J., met Mr. Trungpa Rinpoche in 1971 and became his top student, receiving the name Osel Tendzin, or ''radiant holder of the teachings.'' His name had been Thomas Rich.
        In 1976, he was designated the church's next regent, becoming the first Westerner to achieve such a position in the Kagyu tradition, one of four schools of Tibetan Buddhism. The regent transmits the teachings of Buddha to Vajradhatu followers.
        In December 1988 it became known that Mr. Tendzin's companion had tested positive for the AIDS virus. At a meeting of several hundred Buddhists in Berkeley, Calif., later that month, Mr. Tendzin acknowledged that he had AIDS and may have infected others.
        He said he had known for several years that he was ill but thought he could ''change the karma.''
        Correction:  August 30, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary headline in some editions on Tuesday about Ozel Tendzin misstated his affiliation with Tibetan Buddhists. Mr. Tendzin was the leader of the Vajradhatu International Buddhist Church, a Tibetan Buddhist sect in Boulder, Colo.; the Dalai Lama is the head of Tibetan Buddhists.
      