
       DeWitt Stetten Jr., a biochemist and former deputy director of the National Institutes of Health who in the 1970's headed a committee that drafted guidelines on genetic engineering, died Tuesday at the Fernwood Nursing Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old.
        DeWitt Stetten Jr., a biochemist and former deputy director of the National Institutes of Health who in the 1970's headed a committee that drafted guidelines on genetic engineering, died Tuesday at the Fernwood Nursing Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old.
        A spokeswoman for the institutes said he died of congestive heart failure.
        Dr. Stetten had a varied medical career that spanned more than five decades. He was dean of the Rutgers University Medical School from 1962 to 1970 and was chief of nutrition and physiology at the Public Health Reserch Institute in New York City from 1948 to 1954.
        Until he retired four years ago Dr. Stetten was senior scientific adviser to the director of the institutes. He founded the institutes' Museum of Medical Research, which bears his name, and was president of the Foundation for Advanced Education in the Sciences, a nongovernmental group attached to the institutes.
        Hospital and Research Posts
        Dr. Stetten, who was known as Hans through most of his life, was born in Manhattan, received a bachelor's degree from Harvard College and held doctoral degrees in medicine and biochemistry from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia, where he taught after his internship at Bellevue Hospital. He also taught at Harvard Medical School and was on the staff of Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston before coming to the Public Health Research Institute.
        From 1954 to 1962 he was associate director in charge of research at the National Institute of General Medical Sciences. After his deanship at Rutgers he returned to the National Institutes of Health and in 1974 was made deputy director. He relinquished that post in 1979 to become senior scientific adviser.
        In the 1970's, as experiments in the tranplantation of DNA from one organism to another were starting to develop into what was to become genetic engineering, Dr. Stetten was responsible for drawing up guidelines for the research. The guidelines were issued in 1976.  In 1957 he received the Banting Medal of the American Diabetes Association.
        His first wife, the former Marjorie Roloff, died in 1983. He is survived by his second wife, the former Jane Lazarow, and three daughters and a son from his first marriege: Dr. Gail Stetten of Baltimore, Dr. Nancy Stetten of Nashville, Mary Carson of Manhattan and George Stetten of Syracuse. Also surviving are eight grandchildren.
      