
       Arthur L. Samuel, a computer scientist who did early research on machine learning and artificial intelligence, died July 29 at Stanford University Memorial Hospital in California. He was 88 years old.
        Arthur L. Samuel, a computer scientist who did early research on machine learning and artificial intelligence, died July 29 at Stanford University Memorial Hospital in California. He was 88 years old.
        Dr. Samuel, who lived in Portola Valley, Calif., and was profesor emeritus of computer sciences at Stanford, died of complications from Parkinson's disease, a university spokesman said.
        He did pioneer work on the thesis that mechanisms could be designed to learn just as humans learn. Beginning in the 1940's and for 20 years thereafter, he worked on writing a computer program in the experimental environment of game playing.
        Dr. Samuel developed a program that enabled computers to compete successfully with champion checker players. He also invented several seminal techniques in rote and generalization learning.
        Early Time-Sharing Systems
        At Stanford he helped program some of the early time-sharing systems at the university's artificial intelligence laboratory and worked on early versons of word processors.
        Dr. Samuel, a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, joined the Stanford faculty in 1966 after working at the International Business Machine Corporation for 17 years and retiring as director of research communications at I.B.M.'s Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Before that he spent 18 years with Bell Telephone Laboratories, where he did research on electron tubes that helped lead to the development of television. He was awarded more than 50 patents for his inventions.
        Dr. Samuel also taught at M.I.T. and at the University of Illinois from 1946 to 1949, and helped establish the university's computer laboratory.
        He was a consultant to the National Security Agency and was chairman of the Joint Services Committee on electron devices.
        Dr. Samuel is survived by two daughters, Donna Hussain of Sacramento, Calif., and Margaret Finch of Winsted, Conn.; a brother, Cornell of Hemphill, Tex., and four grandchildren.
      