
       Asa S. Knowles, president of Northeastern University from 1959 to 1975, died Saturday at his home in Boston at the age of 81.
        Asa S. Knowles, president of Northeastern University from 1959 to 1975, died Saturday at his home in Boston at the age of 81.
        His family said he died of a heart ailment.
        Mr. Knowles was credited with turning Northeastern from a small night school serving commuters into a large university that pioneered cooperative education, in which students alternate academic terms with paid employment in the field for which they are training.
        During his tenure, Northeastern's enrollment grew from 15,000 undergraduates to 35,000. He added 50 programs, including colleges of criminal justice, nursing and pharmacy, along with graduate schools of law, business administration, education and arts and sciences.
        Mr. Knowles, a native of Northeast Harbor, Me., was a graduate of Bowdoin College and held a master's degree from Boston University. He joined Northeastern as an associate professor of industrial engineering in 1936 and became dean of the College of Business Administration in 1939.
        Three years later Mr. Knowles was named director of college extension at the University of Rhode Island, and in 1946 he was appointed the first chancellor of the Associated Colleges of Upper New York, a consortium created to offer educational opportunities to veterans of World War II. #3 Colleges in 12 Weeks In a period of 12 weeks Mr. Knowles created three colleges - Champlain, Mohawk and Sampson - in the northern half of the state. Two years later he became vice president of university development at Cornell University. In 1951 he was named president of the Unversity of Toledo, where he served until returning to Northeastern as president in 1959. After relinquishing the presidency in 1975, he stayed on as chancellor and as dean of the School of Business Administration.
        Mr. Knowles was editor of the Handbook of College and University Administration, published in 1970, and of the International Encyclopedia of Higher Education in 1977.
        He is survived by a son, Asa W. Knowles of Indianapolis; a daughter, Margaret Browning of Boston; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      