
       Edward W. Pattison, a former United States Representative from Troy, N.Y., died on Wednesday at his home in West Sand Lake, N.Y. He was 58 years old.
        Edward W. Pattison, a former United States Representative from Troy, N.Y., died on Wednesday at his home in West Sand Lake, N.Y. He was 58 years old.
        He died of complications from liver cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Pattison, known as Ned, was elected to the first of his two terms in Congress in 1974. He was a leader in the reshaping of the rules governing the workings of the House in the mid-1970's and one of the key legislative managers for the passage of the Copyright Act of 1976, the first thorough revision of copyright law in 67 years.
        Mr. Pattison, who was one of 75 new Democrats elected to the House in 1974 after the Watergate scandal, was the first Democrat elected to Congress from the Troy area since the Civil War era.
        His political career began in 1960, when he headed Rensselaer County Citizens for Kennedy-Johnson in support of the Democratic ticket of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. He served as Rensselaer County treasurer from 1969 to 1974. After leaving Washington, he was a fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government and since 1979 was chairman of the Congressional Institute on the Future.
        Taught Public Affairs
        Mr. Pattison's was unsuccessful in his bid for a third term after he disclosed that he had smoked marijuana on occasion. He returned to practicing law with the firm of Pattison, Sampson, Ginsberg & Griffin in Troy. He also taught public affairs at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Antioch College. In addition, he served as a regular commentator and columnist on political matters for television and newspapers in the Troy-Albany area.
        This year, he received the New York State Bar Association's Root-Stimson Award for community service work.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Eleanor Copley; a son, Mark, of Troy; three daughters, Lynn Pollart of Colorado Springs, and Laura and Wendy Pattison, both of Troy; a brother, John, of Troy, and two sisters, Olivia Garfield of Lower Waterford, Vt., and Nina Pattison of Troy.
      