
       B. Kliban, an art-school dropout whose cartoons of hordes of round-eyed, striped cats became a multi-million-dollar craze, died Sunday at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco, two weeks after undergoing heart surgery. He was 55 years old and lived in Corte Madera, Calif.
        B. Kliban, an art-school dropout whose cartoons of hordes of round-eyed, striped cats became a multi-million-dollar craze, died Sunday at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco, two weeks after undergoing heart surgery. He was 55 years old and lived in Corte Madera, Calif.
        The San Francisco coroner's office said the specific cause of his death had not been determined, and it declined to provide any additional information about the reclusive artist and his family.
        Mr. Kliban (pronounced KLEE-ban) burst into publishing and best-seller prominence in 1975 with his first book, ''Cat,'' which started introducing his populace of cats wearing oversized tennis shoes; drunken-looking cats wearing paper hats; ''Momcat,'' who packed her kitten in a kangaroo-type pouch, and a guitar-strumming cat singing: ''Love to eat them mousies,/Mousies what I love to eat./Bite they little heads off . . ./Nibble on they tiny feet.''
        Reviewers and other readers speedily hailed Mr. Kliban as an ideal interpreter of the often hilarious animals, adept at recording their naivete and logic simultaneously. The consensus was that Kliban cats were delightfully funny, but never cloyingly cute.
        'Not Silly' About Cats
        In only a few years, Kliban cats started appearing on calendars, greeting cards, sheets, umbrellas and many other products that became a $50 million industry in the mid-1980's.
        He created 10 books, most of them issued by Workman Publishing, including ''Never Eat Anything Bigger Than Your Head, and Other Drawings'' (1976), ''Whack Your Porcupine, and Other Drawings'' (1977), ''Tiny Footprints, and Other Drawings'' (1978), ''Playboy's Kliban'' (1979), ''Two Guys Fooling Around With the Moon'' (1982) and ''Luminous Animals,'' published by Penguin Books in 1983.
        Reviewers praised the cartoonist's nimble use of puns, cliches and ironic, occasionally raunchy treatment of the absurdities and mysteries of animals, people and society.
        The reticent but personable artist, who usually wore included jeans and sandals, maintained an ironic objectivity about cats, defining them as ''one hell of a nice animal, frequently mistaken for a meat loaf.'' He said he had had an allergy to cats ''until I hit late puberty in my 20's, when it just went away.''
        ''People assume I'm gaga about cats,'' he said in 1978. He added: ''I like them, but I'm not silly about them. Cats look like cartoons. There's something funny and vulnerable and innocent about them.''
        The small cat population in his Marin County studio varied. His ex-wife won custody of two of them in their divorce litigation. When not cartooning, he painted watercolors of San Francisco Bay and gave them to friends.
        ''I find it amazing to be making money at what I like doing,'' he said in 1976. ''When I was in art school, I was nowhere near the top. So much of success is just perseverance. Maturity comes from banging your head on sharp corners. If the cartoon thing ended tomorrow, I would have a craft to fall back on and not have to work for some corporation. I could just take one of these paintings and trade it to some farmer for a chicken.''
        A Nonconformist Youth
        Bernard Kliban was born on Jan. 1, 1935, in Norwalk, Conn., where his father was a manufacturer. He hated his first name and liked to be known as Hap because ''I was a New Year's Day baby, and that was supposed to be good news.''
        In high school, he recalled, he was a malcontent in a place where ''the whole trip was to be a conformist.'' He flunked out of Pratt Institute and Cooper Union and did a variety of menial jobs until he moved to California in 1959. ''I knew I was home immediately,'' he told an interviewer. ''I'd just had it with the East Coast and having slush around my ears.''
        He began doing freelance advertising drawings. With advice from Michelle Uhry, the cartoon editor of ''Playboy,'' and his agent, Toni Mendez, he began to specialize in cat illustrations and completed his first book, ''Cat.'' The cats multiplied faster than rabbits and speedily earned him fame and fortune.
        Efforts to reach the artist's colleagues last night were unsuccessful. In interviews, he said that both his parents had died. He acknowledged having one child and a brother.
      