
       Edward E. Booher, the former chairman and president of the McGraw-Hill Book Company, died yesterday at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Edward E. Booher, the former chairman and president of the McGraw-Hill Book Company, died yesterday at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Princeton.
        He died of lung cancer, said his wife, Agnes.
        Mr. Booher was long active in efforts to help less developed countries establish their own book industries. In 1968 he helped fashion the first joint venture between publishers in Communist and non-Communist countries when the state publishing house in Yugoslavia agreed to print and distribute McGraw-Hill's scientific and technical books in Eastern Europe. In 1986 the Yugoslav Government gave him its highest award for foreign civilians.
        Mr. Booher was a trustee of Pace College and the first chairman of the Commission for Higher Education in New Jersey. In 1979 he was awarded a doctor of humane letters degree from Rutgers University for his role in education in the state. Two years ago he received the Curtis G. Benjamin Award from the Association of American Publishers for his contributions to publishing.
        Born in Dayton, Ohio, in 1911, Mr. Booher graduated from Antioch College in 1936 and shortly afterward joined the McGraw-Hill Book Company as a college book salesman. He held sales and editorial positions in the college and technical-education departments before becoming vice president of the book company in 1944 and executive vice president in 1954. He was named president in 1960 and chairman of the board in 1968. From 1970 to 1975 he was president of the Books and Educational Services Group of McGraw-Hill Inc.
        At his death, Mr. Booher was president of the Holtzbrinck Publishing Group in the United States and served on a number of boards within the group, including those of Scientific American magazine, W. H. Freeman & and Co. and Henry Holt & Co.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Booher is survived by his children from a previous marriage: David K. Booher of New Haven, Bruce E. Booher of Phillips, Me., and Carol B. Cutler of Valley Cottage, N.Y.; his stepchildren, Ridley M. Whitaker, Alexander S. Whitaker and Dr. Agnes H. Whitaker, all of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      