
       Peter J. Ottley, a former elevator operator who became president of Local 144 of the Hotels, Hospitals, Nursing Home and Allied Services Union for 37 years, representing tens of thousands of workers, died on Wednesday at La Guardia Hospital in Queens. He was 82 years old and lived in St. Albans, Queens.
        Peter J. Ottley, a former elevator operator who became president of Local 144 of the Hotels, Hospitals, Nursing Home and Allied Services Union for 37 years, representing tens of thousands of workers, died on Wednesday at La Guardia Hospital in Queens. He was 82 years old and lived in St. Albans, Queens.
        He died of pneumonia, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Ottley was head of the union from 1950 until he retired in 1987. When he joined the local, it was primarily a hotel union with a predominantly white membership. Over the years its membership changed to a majority of black members and expanded to represent nursing-home and hospital workers, as well as licensed practical and registered nurses. #33,000 Union Members Today more than 200 hotels, 100 nursing homes and 40 hospitals, with a total of 33,000 members, are covered by collective bargaining agreements with Local 144 in the metropolitan New York area, according to the union.
        In 1950 Mr. Ottley became an officer of the Hotel and Motel Trades Council, a coalition of unions that bargain for employees in the city's large hotels. He became a vice president of Local 144's parent body, the Service Employees International Union, A.F.L.-C.I.O., in 1962.
        Two years later he was named director of civil rights and economic opportunity for the international union.
        Conviction Overturned
        In 1973 Mr. Ottley was one of two union officers indicted by a Federal grand jury and accused of embezzling more than $186,000 in union funds. He was convicted the following year of aiding in the embezzlement of union funds and failing to keep adequate expense records covering about $20,000 during a four-year period that ended in 1972.
        His conviction later was overturned by an appeals court on the grounds that an improper charge to the jury had been made, and the case was dismissed.
        Peter Jerome Ottley was born in Grenada and came to the United States in 1927, where he was employed as an elevator operator in the Caxton Building on West 28th Street. He went to night school to complete high school and attended New York University for a year. The first strike he led was of building workers at the Caxton Building during the Depression in 1933.
        Mr. Ottley is survived by his wife, the former Mabel Farrell; a son, Arthur, of Brooklyn, and a grandson.
      