
       Michael G. Cooke, a professor of English at Yale University and an authority on the English Romantic Movement and African and Caribbean literature, died on Tuesday at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. He had turned 56 years old on Tuesday and lived in Bethany, Conn.
        Michael G. Cooke, a professor of English at Yale University and an authority on the English Romantic Movement and African and Caribbean literature, died on Tuesday at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. He had turned 56 years old on Tuesday and lived in Bethany, Conn.
        Dr. Cooke died as a result of injuries received in an automobile accident earlier Tuesday in Woodbridge, Conn., a spokeswoman for the university said.
        A 1957 graduate of Yale, Professor Cooke earned a Ph.D. at the University of California at Berkeley in 1962. He then joined the faculty at Yale and in 1968 was named an assistant professor of English. He taught at the University of Iowa and at Boston University before returning to Yale as a professor in 1971.
        He was named the Bird White Housum Professor of English Literature in 1987. He served on numerous boards and committees at Yale and was a driving force behind the creation of an international alliance of literary scholars, the Common Wealth of Letters.
        He was also a strong proponent of improved secondary education in the United States and was recently appointed to the New York State Task Force on Curriculum Revision, which is seeking to have the contributions of Africa, Asia and the Caribbean reflected in history courses.
        Professor Cooke was the author of several books, including ''Afro-American Literature in the 20th Century: The Achievement of Intimacy,'' ''The Romantic Will'' and ''The Blind Man Traces the Circle: On the Patterns and Philosophy of Byron's Poetry.''
        He is survived by his wife, Yvonne; two sons, Ian, of Washington and Dimitri, of Manhattan; and two daughters, Laura Titus of Stamford, Conn., and Deborah Hansen of Milford, Conn.; his father, George, of Toronto; three sisters, Joan and Dorothy Cooke, both of Toronto, and Celia Hylton of Kingston, Jamaica, and one grandchild.
      