
       Fernando Valenti, an American harpsichordist whose skill, intelligence and wit helped popularize his instrument, died Thursday at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 63 years old.
        In a 1985 New York Times review, Will Crutchfield called Mr. Valenti ''probably the dean of living Scarlattians.''
        Mr. Valenti liked to mix his recital pieces with offhand commentary from the stage, and he was an engaging television personality. He liked to describe one intricate, crossing-hands piece by Scarlatti as ''the TV Sonata - not much to listen to but fun to watch.'' 330 Scarlatti Sonatas Beyond his charm, Mr. Valenti had the kind of technique and musical energy that were reflected in the 330 Scarlatti sonatas he recorded for the Westminster label. Mr. Valenti also recorded the Fifth Brandenburg Concerto of Bach with Leopold Stokowski for CBS Records. His most recent recording was Bach's ''Goldberg'' Variations for Pro Arte. Among the other conductors with whom Mr. Valenti performed were Bruno Walter, Serge Koussevitsky, Fritz Reiner and Pablo Casals.
        Mr. Valenti's efforts to raise a near-forgotten 18th-century instrument from the dead to the levels of popularity it enjoys today were divided between concerts and his students. Besides his activities at Yale, he founded the harpsichord departments at the Juilliard School, the Cleveland Institute and the California Institute of the Arts.
        Although Mr. Valenti was born and raised in New York, his family was from the Spanish island of Mallorca, and he maintained a beach house near their ancient palace. His manager, Richard Torrence, said he had modestly concealed the fact that he was a Spanish duke and grandee.
        He was known as well-read and an intellectual. His command of Spanish and English, said Mr. Torrence, was ''brilliant,'' and he numbered among his close friends Mortimer Adler, the philosopher; William F. Buckley, the columnist, and Frank Taplin, the arts executive.
        Mr. Valenti is survived by his son.
      