
       Robert Ladd Thorndike, Ralph Narch Hoe Professor Emeritus of Education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Friday at St. Peter Hospital in Olympia, Wash. He was 79 years old and moved to Lacey, Wash., in 1987.
        Robert Ladd Thorndike, Ralph Narch Hoe Professor Emeritus of Education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Friday at St. Peter Hospital in Olympia, Wash. He was 79 years old and moved to Lacey, Wash., in 1987.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his daughter, Virginia Thorndike of Silver Spring, Md., said.
        Dr. Thorndike joined Teachers College in 1936 and became a full professor in 1948. In 1957, he became head of its department of psychological foundations and services, a department concerned mostly with research.
        In the early 1950's, he joined with Irving Lorge and, later, Elizabeth Hagen to create the Lorge-Thorndike Intelligence Tests, later called ''Cognitive Ability Tests,'' which were widely used to test scholastic ability. He also worked with Dr. Hagen and Dr. Jerome Sattler in 1986 on a major revision of the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Test.
        A Leader in Psychology
        Dr. Thorndike wrote numerous papers and several books including ''Concepts of Over and Under Achievement, Applied Psychometrics'' (1963; Teachers College) and ''Measurement and Evaluation in Psychology and Education'' (1955; John Wiley & Sons).
        He graduated from Wesleyan University in 1931, and received a Ph.D. from Columbia in 1935. He taught for two years in the psychology department at George Washington University before joining Teachers College, where his father, Edward Lee Thorndike, was a leader in psychology.
        He served in the Army Air Corps Aviation Psychology Program from 1942 to 1946, where he worked on air crew selection.
        He won numerous awards including the Butler Medal for Outstanding Service from Columbia University.
        Besides his daughter, he is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Mann; a second daughter, Nancy Whitney of Norwalk, Conn.; a son, Robert, of Bellingham, Wash.; two brothers, Edward, of Montrose, N.Y., and Alan, of Bellport, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      