
       Dr. John P. Hagen, a solar radio astronomer who in the late 1950's directed the United States' first major space effort, died last Sunday at a convalescent home in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 82 years old and lived in Las Vegas.
        Dr. John P. Hagen, a solar radio astronomer who in the late 1950's directed the United States' first major space effort, died last Sunday at a convalescent home in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 82 years old and lived in Las Vegas.
        His son, Edward Christopher Hagen, said the cause of death was heart failure.
        Dr. Hagen, an expert in microwave electronics, radar, radio astronomy and rocketry, spent almost three decades with the Naval Research Laboratory and was a leading figure in the dramatic and disappointing early days of the American space program.
        He was appointed in 1955 as director of the Navy's earth satellite program, which was later chosen over rival projects proposed by other military services for tha nation's entry into space research.
        This program, Project Vanguard, was beset by delays and launching failures, including the launching-pad explosion in December 1957 in the first attempted liftoff of a space probe. Plans for the launching had received widespread publicity, and the explosion cast a pall over the nation's space efforts.
        But those efforts were salvaged the next month when the Army successfully launched the Explorer 1 rocket, and on March 17, 1958, when Project Vanguard launched a 3 1/4-pound satellite, Vanguard 1, which is now the oldest man-made object in space.
        This successful effort came after two failed attempts to launch a Vanguard rocket and months after the Soviet Union launched two satellites: Sputnik 1 on Oct. 4, 1957, and Sputnik 2 on Nov. 3, 1957.
        Dr. Hagen, who held a doctoral degree in astronomy from Georgetown University, left Government service in 1962 as associate director of the Office of Plans and Program Evaluation at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He then created a graduate program of radio astronomy at Pennsylvania State University and later established observatories there. He retired from the university in 1975 as head of the astonomy department.
        Among his awards were the Presidential Certificate of Merit and the Navy's Distinguished Service Medal.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Las Vegas, Dr. Hagen is survived by three sisters, Jean Meggison of Booth Bay Harbor, Me., and Majorie Hagen and Ruth Hagen, both of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      