
       Dr. Arnold P. Friedman, an international authority on migraine headaches, died on Monday at the El Dorado Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81 years old and lived in Tucson.
        Dr. Arnold P. Friedman, an international authority on migraine headaches, died on Monday at the El Dorado Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81 years old and lived in Tucson.
        He died of heart failure, his daughter, Dr. Carol Ludwig, said.
        Dr. Friedman founded the nation's first headache clinic at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx in the mid-1940's and was the director of the unit for almost 30 years. Thousands of people were treated for headaches at Montefiore, and Dr. Friedman and other clinicians found that about 65 percent of them had a family history of migraine headaches.
        The clinicians also found that equally good results were obtained by giving patients a placebo - a nonmedicinal pill - as when they were given an actual drug. Dr. Friedman noted in a 1958 interview that an ordinary headache, one that is not related to an infirmity or injury, could be caused by poorly ventilated rooms, the ''morning after'' effects of drinking, loss of sleep, exhaustion, emotional stress and failure to drink, say, a cup of coffee when you are accustomed to drinking coffee frequently. The remedy: coffee, an aspirin and fresh air.
        'Not Discouraged'
        Finding a cure for the more severe migraine headache has eluded researchers for decades.
        ''I'm not discouraged, but after studying migraine for 45 years I've become realistic,'' Dr. Friedman said in a 1983 interview. ''I don't think medicine will ever find one agent to help everybody who suffers from migraines.''
        Dr. Friedman earned a medical degree from the University of Oregon in 1939 and completed his training in psychiatry and neurology at hospitals in Los Angeles and Boston. He retired from the Montefiore clinic in 1973 and became a professor of neurology at the University of Arizona in Tucson. He was also a consultant to the Neurological Associates of Tucson. He retired from the university in 1986.
        He served as chairman of the World Commission for the Study of Headache in 1958 and was the chairman of the headache sections of the American Medical Association and the American Neurological Association. He was also president of the American Board of Psychiatrists and Neurologists and of the National Migraine Foundation.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Washington, he is survived by his wife, Sarah, and three grandchildren.
      