
       Nat (Sweetwater) Clifton, one of the first black players in the National Basketball Association and a popular star with the New York Knick teams of the 1950's, died Friday in Chicago, apparently of a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        Nat (Sweetwater) Clifton, one of the first black players in the National Basketball Association and a popular star with the New York Knick teams of the 1950's, died Friday in Chicago, apparently of a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Clifton, who lived in Chicago, was taken to St. Cabrini Hospital early Friday evening and died in the emergency room. The Cook County Medical Examiner's office said it would investigate the cause of death.
        Mr. Clifton was signed by the Knicks in 1950 after playing for the Harlem Globetrotters, and became a crowd favorite at Madison Square Garden, not only because of his ball-handling, rebounding and shooting skills, but also because of his unusual nickname. From the time he was a teen-ager, Mr. Clifton said, everyone always called him Sweetwater.
        ''I got the name when I was a kid, because all I ever wanted to drink was soda pop,'' he once explained. ''You know, sweet water.''
        Seven Knick Seasons
        But Mr. Clifton had talent to complement his name. A native of Chicago, he played college ball at Xavier University in New Orleans before joining the Globetrotters. After being purchased by the Knicks, he spent the next seven seasons with the team.
        Mr. Clifton, who was 6 feet 7 inches tall, played forward and center during his National Basketball Association career, averaging 10 points and 8.5 rebounds a game. His best season in New York was 1954-55, when he averaged 13.1 points on a team that included Carl Braun, Harry Gallatin, Ray Felix and Dick McGuire.
        In the 1956-57 season, he was named to the N.B.A. All-Star team, averaging 10.7 points. He scored 8 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in that year's All-Star Game.
        The Knicks reached the N.B.A. finals three times during Mr. Clifton's career with them. He spent his final season in the league, 1957-58, with the Detroit Pistons.
        Mr. Clifton became a cabdriver in Chicago when his career ended, but his basketball achievements were not forgotten. In June 1978, he was inducted into the Black Athletes Hall of Fame.
      