
       George Hardy, a forceful, outspoken labor leader who was among the early organizers of janitors, public employees and health care workers for the Service Employees International Union, died Thursday at Children's Hospital in San Francisco. He was 79 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        George Hardy, a forceful, outspoken labor leader who was among the early organizers of janitors, public employees and health care workers for the Service Employees International Union, died Thursday at Children's Hospital in San Francisco. He was 79 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        A spokesman for the international union in Washington said Mr. Hardy had died of respiratory failure.
        Mr. Hardy was international president of the 935,000-member union, the fifth largest in the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. He was also a vice president of the federation and a member of the its executive council. He had been a member of the California Democratic State Central Committee.
        ''Hardy was one of the great union leaders,'' said Edmund G. (Pat) Brown, the former California Governor. ''He advised me in all my campaigns, and when I served as Attorney General and as Governor, he never hesitated to tell me when I was right and when I was wrong.''
        Mr. Hardy, born in North Vancouver, British Columbia, was the son of Charles Hardy, the first organizer of the service employees' union in California, who was an international vice president at his death in 1948.
        In 1932, when anti-union sentiment was rampant in the United States, he joined Theater Janitors Local 9 of San Francisco, the oldest local of the service employees' union in California, made up of low-income, largely immigrant janitors in office buildings.
        Helped Organize Cleaners
        Although blacklisted from his job as a janitor by employers' associations, Mr. Hardy helped organize a majority of the city's cleaners. Under his leadership, union membership in California grew from a handful to more than 105,000 by 1972.
        By 1950 he had begun organizing public employees and health care workers, people who were largely unprotected by the National Labor Relations Act and ignored by most other unions.
        When Mr. Hardy was elected international president of the service employees' union in 1971, its membership in the health care and public sectors began to increase rapidly. By 1972, the union grew by 42,000 members. By 1975, at the end of his first four-year term as president, the union had gained 100,000 members.
        Before retiring in 1980, Mr. Hardy helped lay the groundwork for the merger of the service employees and District 1199 of the National Union of Hospital and Health Care Employees. The merger was approved in 1989, making the service employees the largest health care workers' union in North America and the fastest-growing member of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        Mr. Hardy is survived by a daughter, Joan Hardy Twomey, and two grandchildren, all of San Francisco.
      