
       James H. Donovan, a longtime State Senator who played an important role in shaping state policy on education and transportation during the last 25 years, died today at his home in Chadwicks, near Utica. He was 66 years old.
        James H. Donovan, a longtime State Senator who played an important role in shaping state policy on education and transportation during the last 25 years, died today at his home in Chadwicks, near Utica. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. Donovan died of cancer of the colon, his family said.
        Gov. Mario M. Cuomo called Mr. Donovan's death ''a tremendous loss'' and said the Senator's ''courageous struggle to overcome his illness served as an inspiration to us all.'' He ordered flags on all state buildings lowered to half-staff through Tuesday.
        A Republican who was first elected to the Senate in 1965, Mr. Donovan announced earlier this year that he was retiring from the Legislature because his illness left him too tired to perform his duties. He missed much of the 1990 legislative session.
        Helped Cut Red Tape
        Mr. Donovan, who served his district longer than any other state legislator, was mainly remembered for the role he had for 14 years as chairman of the Senate Education Committee. He previously was chairman of the Committee on Roads and Public Works and the Committee on Mental Hygiene and Addiction Control.
        As chairman of the Education Committee, he worked to expand programs aimed at reducing teen-age pregnancy and illiteracy, and to create the New York City School Construction Authority, which has allowed the city to cut red tape in building new schools.
        ''Jim Donovan's most lasting contribution will be in the area of education, where he assured that quality and affordable education was this state's top priority,'' said the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino.
        Mr. Marino called Mr. Donovan ''a man of principle and courage.'' He was known for leading an annual fight to remove Medicaid financing for abortions from the state budget.
        And for most of his career he was one of the Senate's most avid supporters of the death penalty. But during the last two years, his illness caused him to meditate on ''the sacredness of life'' and to reconsider his position on the death penalty. His vote could have been the last one needed this year for the Legislature to override Mr. Cuomo's veto of the death penalty.
        Resisting a School Change
        But Mr. Donovan said he would not decide how he would vote until shortly before a ballot was taken. Unsure of how Mr. Donovan would vote or whether he could make the trip to Albany, Senate leaders did not schedule an override vote this year.
        He also made news this year with his resistance to a proposal by the New York City Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, that the Legislature eliminate the Board of Examiners, a city panel that certified teachers but that Mr. Fernandez considered anachronistic. Mr. Fernandez was able to offer a proposal that satisfied Mr. Donovan's concerns, and the Legislature abolished the board this year.
        Mr. Donovan grew up on a farm in Marcy, N.Y., and served two tours of duty as a marine in World War II.
        He began his public life in 1959 when he was elected to the Chadwicks Board of Education. He was elected New Hartford Town Councilman in 1961 and Town Supervisor in 1963. Two years later, he was elected to the Senate.
        He is survived by his wife, Esther; five sons, Gary, of Chadwicks, James, of Winter Park, Fla., Jerome, of Burlington, Vt., Barry, of Winter Springs, Fla., and Michael, of Chicago; two daughters, Kim Jweid of Sauquoit, N.Y., and Karen, of Chadwicks, and 14 grandchildren. He is also survived by four sisters.
      