
       Edward L. Bowles, an electrical engineer who played an important part in developing radar for the armed forces in World War II, died Wednesday at the Weston Manor nursing home in Weston, Mass. He was 92.
        Mr. Bowles was called to Washington from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1942, a few months after the United States entered World War II, to help the Government apply science to military problems.
        As a consultant to Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, Mr. Bowles was asked to devise a way to combat the German submarines that were sinking merchant ships almost at will in the North Atlantic. Having been a microwave specialist at M.I.T., he set up a ''combat laboratory'' at Langley Field, Va., where Army Air Corps bombers were equipped with radar developed at the university.
        Decorated for War Service
        Mr. Bowles also fitted the planes with advanced ordnance including electrical altimeters, magnetic detectors, rocket flares, depth charges, homing devices and radio sonobuoys that ferreted out submarines deep under the ocean surface.
        In 1945 he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for his wartime efforts.
        Mr. Bowles was born in Westphalia, Mo., received a bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis and a master's from M.I.T., where he began teaching in 1921. He became an expert in the new field of radio.
        He pioneered in developing the multivibrator, by which a tuning fork, and later a crystal, could be used to maintain a precise radio frequency. The word ''electronics'' was not coined until many years later, but he was one of a handful of scientists who laid the groundwork for the field. He began a division of electrical communications at M.I.T. in the mid-1920's.
        Mr. Bowles rose to a full professorship in 1937 and headed the university's Round Hill Research Division, which worked on the use of radio beams to help airplanes land. After the war he became a consulting professor at M.I.T. and continued to assist the military. In 1955 he headed a Congressional committee that paved the way for allocating television channels in the ultra-high-frequency range.
        Mr. Bowles is survived by his wife, the former Lois Wuerpel; two sons, Edmund, of White Plains and Frederick, of Worcester, and two grandchildren.
      