
       Rome bade a dry-eyed farewell today to its celebrated native son Alberto Moravia, who remained faithful to his city in life, even if his writings did not always treat it like a lady.
        Rome bade a dry-eyed farewell today to its celebrated native son Alberto Moravia, who remained faithful to his city in life, even if his writings did not always treat it like a lady.
        ''Without Moravia, Rome will feel different, emptier,'' Mayor Franco Carraro said at an outdoor memorial service held under a brilliant blue sky. This capital, the Mayor said, is ''the most specifically Moravian city.''
        The death of the Italian writer, who suffered a heart attack on Wednesday at the age of 82, has brought a torrent of tributes and recollections in the Italian press, which considers itself a guardian of Italian letters. Mr. Moravia's life, his loves, his books have filled hundreds of column-inches - eight full pages in one newspaper alone on Thursday.
        A Dearth of Great Writers
        To many Italians, his passing was a signal event for a country that may be rich and sassy but that finds itself distressingly poor in world-acclaimed authors these days. Lost in just the last few years were the likes of Primo Levi, Leonardo Sciascia and Italo Calvino. And now Moravia. Perhaps his best was well behind him. Perhaps the critics often panned his recent books. Still, the sense of a significant loss is apparent here, reflected in the main headline Thursday in L'Unita, the Communist Party newspaper: ''There Goes the 20th Century.''
        Unlike the newspapers, ordinary Romans said goodbye in a quiet manner.
        This is the city of the shrugged shoulders. It tends not to be impressed with very much except, sometimes, itself. Although anyone could go to the memorial service today, only about 300 people turned out, a figure that included Mr. Moravia's wife, Carmen, other relatives and friends, squads of reporters and photographers, and a few politicians who seem to show up whenever there is a gathering of three Nikons or more.
        It does not mean that Romans did not care about Mr. Moravia's death. That is just the way the city is.
        Loving a Rome of the Past
        In similar fashion, Mr. Moravia spent nearly all his life in Rome, and wrote several caring novels and collections of stories about its shopkeepers and waiters, its dreamers and prostitutes. Nevertheless, often enough he gave his city sound thrashings, berating it for its maddening traffic, its loudness, its expense, its befouled air.
        ''Nowadays,'' he told a French interviewer in 1988, ''I only love Rome because I used to love her, just as one loves a woman for the sake of the love that one used to bear her.''
        The farewell was held in the stately main square of the Capitoline Hill, the smallest of the seven hills of ancient Rome. Gathered around Mr. Moravia's coffin were, among others, noted writers like Umberto Eco and Natalia Ginzburg; two former Prime Ministers, Bettino Craxi and Giovanni Spadolini, and the film director Bernardo Bertolucci. For the most part, the group leaned politically to the left and spiritually away from the Roman Catholic Church.
        ''Moravia made himself be loved, even by those who did not share his ideas, because of his gruff yet affectionate presence,'' said a fellow writer and close friend, Enzo Siciliano. ''He believed in the value of intelligence, that through intelligence something could become part of a collective patrimony.''
        ''Ciao, Alberto,'' Mr. Siciliano said, turning away from the coffin.
        The ceremony lasted less than 30 minutes. When the coffin was put into a waiting hearse, the small crowd applauded as Mr. Moravia passed for the last time.
        He was laid to rest at the Verano Cemetery, in a burial plot that belongs to his family, the Pinchereles. Moravia was a pseudonym.
        Knots of women on the sidewalk crossed themselves as the funeral motorcade went by. It was something that Mr. Moravia, Jewish by birth and anticlerical by disposition, would almost certainly never have done himself.
      