
       Ruben de Saavedra, an interior decorator with an international reputation, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Ruben de Saavedra, an interior decorator with an international reputation, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        A business associate, Roger Gross, said Mr. de Saavedra died of kidney failure.
        Mr. de Saavedra, who was born in Mayaguez, P.R., graduated from the New York School of Interior Design in 1955. For the last 30 years he was head of Ruben de Saavedra Inc., an interior design concern with an international clientele.
        He was known primarily for his designs for residences, and had worked recently for clients in Italy and Brazil as well as in the United States.
        Mr. de Saavedra's ebullient personality was as much in evidence at the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club Decorator Show Houses as his lavish rooms were in the pages of the glossy design magazines. The decorator's luxurious, antique-filled rooms, often painted with elaborate trompe l'oeil effects, were widely depicted in Architectural Digest, Interior Design and Vogue Decoration.
        Although grand in scale and formally appointed, Mr. de Saavedra's opulent rooms were never pompous or stuffy. Rather, they were designed to be comfortable and to look lived-in. Mr. de Saavedra, an avid collector of art and antiques, often included ceramic examples of his favorite pug dogs, especially when he was designing rooms for himself.
        ''He had a wonderful sense of showmanship and a great sense of humor,'' said Mario Buatta, an interior designer, who recalled that one could always rely on Mr. de Saavedra to include the latest modern electronic gadgetry in traditionally decorated rooms. ''He was like a barker at the circus, and everyone would gather around to see tables move up and down and draperies rustle.''
        Mr. de Saavedra lectured widely on ''versatility in design'' - at the New York School of Interior Design, the Fashion Institute of Technology and the Winter Antiques Show.
        In 1987 he was one of the first chairmen of the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club Designers' Committee, a group that put together fund-raising efforts for the organization.
        Mr. de Saavedra is survived by two brothers, Wilfredo, of San Juan, P.R., and Edmundo Carrero of Mayaguez, and a sister, Margarita Mora of New Orleans.
      