
       David Lester, a medical researcher who did extensive studies of alcoholism and a professor emeritus of biochemistry at Rutgers University, died on Saturday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 74 years old and lived in Princeton.
        David Lester, a medical researcher who did extensive studies of alcoholism and a professor emeritus of biochemistry at Rutgers University, died on Saturday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 74 years old and lived in Princeton.
        He died of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        Dr. Lester, a graduate of Yale University with a Ph.D. in organic chemistry, joined the Rutgers Center of Alcohol Studies when it was established in 1962. As scientific director, he worked on numerous studies of the behavioral aspects of drug and alcohol use. In 1978, the center was named a National Alcohol Research Center and undertook a 30-year study to trace the origins of conditions that lead to drinking problems and alcoholism. The study included 13-year-olds, so that researchers could study drinking problems as they developed.
        Dr. Lester was the author of more than 100 scientific papers and was the co-author of a handbook on the dermatologic and toxicologic characteristics of the ingredients in cosmetics. He retired in 1987, but continued to work as a consultant with the center.
        Before joining Rutgers, he had worked at Yale and had performed extensive experiments on alcoholism at Yale's Laboratory of Applied Psychology, later known as the Center for Alcohol Studies. While there, he helped establish the Blue Hills Hospital, a 50-bed alcoholic treatment center with five outpatient clinics. In 1962, under a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health, the center left Yale and was re-established at Rutgers University.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; a daughter, Anne Schager of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, James, of Hingham, Mass.; a brother, Robert, of Lexington, Ky., and four grandchildren.
      