
       Edwin Allan Lightner Jr., a former United States Ambassador to Libya and a career Foreign Service officer, died Saturday at his home in Bayside, Me. He was 82 years old.
        Edwin Allan Lightner Jr., a former United States Ambassador to Libya and a career Foreign Service officer, died Saturday at his home in Bayside, Me. He was 82 years old.
        His wife said he died of congestive heart failure.
        Mr. Lightner, a native of New York City, joined the Foreign Service after graduating from Princeton University in 1930. He served in 18 countries in Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia.
        He was the assistant chief of the United States mission in Berlin during tense confrontations with Soviet troops in Berlin, and was there in August 1961, when the Berlin wall was erected.
        On two occasions in October 1961 Mr. Lightner was detained by East German guards when he crossed into East Berlin to illustrate the United States' determination to continue to have unrestricted access to all occupation zones in Berlin despite the erection of the wall. On both occasions, he was released only after armed American soldiers crossed the border to free him.
        Spy Exchange in Berlin
        Mr. Lightner also participated in the exchange in Berlin of Francis Gary Powers, the American U-2 pilot who was convicted of spying and imprisoned after being shot down on a reconnaisance flight over the Soviet Union in May 1960. Mr. Powers was exchanged by the Soviets for Col. Rudolf I. Abel, who was convicted in Brooklyn in 1957 on charges of heading a Soviet espionage ring in the United States.
        Mr. Lightner served as counselor and later as charge d'affaires of the United States Embassy in South Korea.
        He was the United States Ambassador to Libya from 1963 to 1965, and helped negotiate with the Libyan Government, then a constitutional monarchy, on the United States use of Wheelus Air force Base in Tripoli.
        Mr. Lightner's last posting, from 1967 to 1970, was at the National War College, where he was deputy commandant for international affairs.
        Besides his wife, the former Dorothy Boyce, he is survived by two sons, E. Allan Lightner 3d of Belfast, Me., and John Lightner of Portland, Me.; a daughter, Babette Lightner of Minneapolis; a brother, Lawrence, of Northfield, Mass., and a grandchild.
      