
       Hermes Pan, the Academy Award-winning choreographer who, with Fred Astaire, created some of the most elegant, spirited and amusing dances in film history, died Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 years old.
        Hermes Pan, the Academy Award-winning choreographer who, with Fred Astaire, created some of the most elegant, spirited and amusing dances in film history, died Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Pan's daughter, Michelene Laski, who announced his death, said that Mr. Astaire had once told her, ''he was the only person I ever saw who could dance like I did.''
        Mr. Pan choreographed about 50 films, but it was the classic, 1930's musicals starring Mr. Astaire and Ginger Rogers, with ebullient scores by Irving Berlin, Jerome Kern, George Gershwin and Vincent Youmans, that highlight the choreographer's legacy.
        The nine films, produced at RKO-Radio Pictures from 1933 to 1939, were ''Flying Down to Rio,'' ''The Gay Divorcee,'' ''Roberta,'' ''Top Hat,'' ''Follow the Fleet,'' ''Swing Time,'' ''Shall We Dance,'' ''Carefree'' and ''The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle.''
        Complicated Rehearsals
        In 1988, Mr. Pan recounted his collaboration with Mr. Astaire. While the choreographer was shaping the ensemble numbers, he said, Mr. Astaire started working out his dances with Miss Rogers. Then, the two men would refine them together, and then Mr. Pan would introduce them to Miss Rogers and, finally, ''Fred and Ginger would rehearse and perform them.'' Laughing, he recalled, ''With Fred I was Ginger, and with Ginger I was Fred.''
        Hal Borne, Mr. Astaire's longtime arranger and rehearsal pianist, offered said of the choreographer in 1972: ''Hermes was terribly instrumental in everything that Fred did. He was really Fred's alter ego. His ideas for choreography were exactly what Fred wanted.''
        Mr. Pan, a self-effacing man who met Mr. Astaire in 1933 during rehearsals for ''Flying Down to Rio,'' said in 1985: ''It was a fortunate situation that I met Astaire and that he was of the same outlook, feeling and mentality as I was. It sort of blended into a beautiful thing.''
        The choreographer earned his Oscar in 1937 for ''Damsel in Distress,'' starring Mr. Astaire and Joan Fontaine. He was cited particularly for ''Fun House,'' a hilarious battle between Mr. Astaire and treadmills, revolving barrels, slides and distorted mirrors.
        An Emmy in 1961
        In his later films, Mr. Pan danced occasionally with such partners as Betty Grable and Rita Hayworth. Among these movies were ''Moon Over Miami,'' ''My Gal Sal,'' ''The Barkleys of Broadway,'' ''Kiss Me Kate,'' ''Hit the Deck,'' ''Silk Stockings,'' ''Pal Joey,'' ''Porgy and Bess'' and ''My Fair Lady.''
        His later awards included an Emmy in 1961 for ''Astaire Time: An Evening With Fred Astaire'' and a Joffrey Ballet citation in 1986.
        Mr. Pan, whose original name was Hermes Panagiotopolous, was born in Memphis and raised in Nashville. He began his career in Broadway choruses and went to Hollywood as half of a dance team with his sister, now Vasso Meade.
        Besides his daughter and sister, he is survived by several grandchildren.
      