
       Robert Holmes a Court, a South African immigrant who became one of Australia's most successful entrepreneurs and corporate raiders, died of a heart attack early this morning at his horse farm near Perth in Western Australia. He was 53 years old. Mr. Holmes a Court, an accomplished corporate strategist who built his empire quickly from a tiny woolen mill, was once Australia's richest man.
        A soft-spoken and private man, Mr. Holmes a Court created a splash in the United States when the Bell Group, his flagship company, bought large blocks of shares in major American companies, including Texaco Inc. and the USX Corporation. There was speculation that he was planning a takeover, but the stock market crash ended any possibility that he would expand his empire. Instead, Mr. Holmes a Court was forced to sell many assets.
        International Links
        Mr. Holmes a Court was one of a handful of Australian entrepreneurs, including Alan Bond and Rupert Murdoch, who built large business empires in short amounts of time and helped link Australian business with the international economy.
        Mr. Holmes a Court, who lived in Perth, had a reputation as a renegade from the frontier who delighted in shaking up the sometimes closed world of finance and industry in East Australian centers of commerce like Melbourne and Sydney. In his office, he displayed a painting entitled ''Melbourne Burning,'' which, in the style of Hieronymus Bosch, depicted people writhing in an inferno.
        Melbourne, which is often regarded as a more sophisticated and aristocratic city than Perth, was home to Broken Hill Proprietary Ltd., Australia's largest industrial company, which Mr. Holmes a Court repeatedly and unsuccessfully tried to acquire.
        ''In many ways, he revolutionized the finance world in Australia,'' Ian Spicer, the chief executive of the Confederation of Australian Industry, told The Associated Press. ''He was a dominant character, a man of significant ability and he will be missed in the business community.''
        Born in Johannesburg
        Michael Robert Hamilton Holmes a Court was born in 1937 in Johannesburg to British parents. He spent his early years in Rhodesia, where he first displayed a knack for business, driving his boarding school classmates home at the end of the term in exchange for their travel allowances.
        After studying agricultural science in New Zealand, he came to Perth in 1962 as a law student. After his schooling, he opened a law practice in Perth but went into business in 1970. For less than $85,000, he bought control of an unprofitable woolen mill and soon made it profitable. He moved into natural resources and other areas after acquiring the Bell Group, an engineering and transportation concern, in 1973.
        His worldwide holdings eventually included television stations; real estate; film production and distribution; movie theaters; tractor and tire distributorships; oil, gas and coal producers, and a stake in Standard and Chartered, a British bank. Last year, he became Australia's largest landowner by buying control of the nation's biggest cattle ranch.
        Mr. Holmes a Court, who enjoyed breeding race horses and collecting art and antique cars, had no history of heart problems. He is survived by his wife, the former Janet Lee Ranford, whom he married in 1965, three sons and one daughter.
      