
       Teresa De Francisci, who was the model for Miss Liberty on the Peace Dollar of 1921, died Saturday morning at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Teresa De Francisci, who was the model for Miss Liberty on the Peace Dollar of 1921, died Saturday morning at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of respiratory failure following surgery, her daughter said.
        Mrs. De Francisci's stylized portrait as Miss Liberty appeared on the silver dollar issued to mark the return of peace at the end of World War I. It was the work of her husband, Anthony, a sculptor and the creator of many medals, including the inaugural medal for the 1964-65 World's Fair in New York.
        On the 50th anniversary of the Peace Dollar, Mrs. De Francisci was honored by numismatists with a plaque inscribed, ''To a Lady of Peace.'' Now a collector's item, the Peace Dollar was issued from 1921 through 1928 and again in 1934 and 1935 before being discontinued.
        'Wasn't a Portrait of Me at All'
        ''I was just an accessory,'' Mrs. De Francisci was quoted as saying on the 60th anniversary of the coin. ''And really, my husband wasn't making a portrait of me. He wanted to make an idealized portrait of what freedom represented to him, so it really wasn't a portrait of me at all.''
        Teresa De Francisci, whose maiden name was Cafarelli, was born in a town south of Naples. At 4 years old, she sailed to this country with her mother in steerage class. She grew up in Clinton, Mass., where her father had a grocery store. Her family recalls with pride that she was the first Italian-American to graduate from the local high school.
        At 22, she married Mr. De Francisci, also an Italian immigrant. The New York sculptor was beginning to be known as a medalist, having designed another commemorative coin: the 1920 half dollar marking the centennial of Maine's statehood.
        The De Franciscis never saved a 1921 Peace Dollar, which later acquired considerable value. ''Anthony was content to do the creating and let others do the collecting,'' his wife once said.
        She is survived by one daughter, Gilda Slate of Manhattan.
      