
       Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        She died of arteriosclerotic heart disease, a family spokesman said.
        Mrs. Ascoli, a daughter of Julius Rosenwald, a Chicago clothier who was a chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, devoted most of her adult life to charitable causes, many of them involving child welfare. She was the widow of Dr. Max Ascoli, the editor and publisher of The Reporter magazine, who died in 1978.
        Mrs. Ascoli's principal interest was promoting health services for children. She was active with the Citizens Committee for almost four decades and served as its president from 1960 to 1962 and chairwoman from 1962 to 1964, when she stepped down and became head of the committee's health section, a post she held until 1981.
        Married Housing Specialist
        At her death Mrs. Ascoli was an honorary vice president of the committee. She was also a former president of the New York Fund for Children and, from 1948 to 1960, was president of the Northside Center for Child Development in Harlem.
        Mrs. Ascoli, a native of Chicago, attended Wellesley College for a year before she married Alfred K. Stern, a housing specialist who later became chairman of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York. They were divorced in 1936. She married Dr. Ascoli in 1940.
        Mrs. Ascoli, who lived in New York City for more than 50 years, moved to her summer home in Croton-on-Hudson seven years ago. Active in community affairs there, she gave 150 acres of her estate to the Teatown Lake Reservation, a conservation group.
        Mrs. Ascoli is survived by two sons, Alfred R. Stern of Manhattan, and Peter M. Ascoli of Chicago; a brother, William Rosenwald of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      