
       Betty Walberg, a composer, arranger and pianist for ballet, Broadway and modern-dance choreographers, including Jerome Robbins, died Wednesday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 69 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Miss Walberg, a lecturer in the division of dance at the University of California at Santa Barbara, worked on many Broadway shows.
        Betty Walberg, a composer, arranger and pianist for ballet, Broadway and modern-dance choreographers, including Jerome Robbins, died Wednesday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 69 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Miss Walberg, a lecturer in the division of dance at the University of California at Santa Barbara, worked on many Broadway shows. She was the dance arranger for the original productions of Mr. Robbins's ''Gypsy'' and ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and for both the Broadway and the film versions of ''West Side Story.''
        As company pianist for Ballets: U.S.A., the troupe Mr. Robbins founded in 1958, she appeared on stage on Sept. 4, 1958, in the New York premiere of the revised version of ''The Concert,'' a comic work he had originally choreographed for the New York City Ballet in 1956. Ms. Walberg portrayed a long-suffering pianist who plays a Chopin recital while dancers act out their often-bizarre daydreams and fantasies.
        Other Broadway shows for which she was dance arranger include ''Anyone Can Whistle,'' ''It's a Bird . . . It's a Plane . . . It's Superman,'' ''Kelly'' and ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever.'' She also contributed arrangements to several Fred Astaire television spectaculars.
        Miss Walberg, a native of Hebron, Neb., was a graduate of Bennington College. She often collaborated with modern dancers, serving as a pianist for the first American Dance Festival at Connecticut College in 1948 and for such choreographers as Martha Graham, Hanya Holm, Anna Sokolow and Martha Hill. Over the years she taught at many places, including the Juilliard School and the School of Performing Arts in New York City and the University of California at Santa Cruz, California State University at Long Beach and the University of Hawaii.
        She is survived by nieces and nephews.
      