
       Leland J. Holland, a retired Army colonel who was one of the 52 Americans held hostage for 444 days in Iran after the takeover of the United States Embassy in Teheran in 1979, died Tuesday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 63 years old and lived in Warrenton, Va.
        Leland J. Holland, a retired Army colonel who was one of the 52 Americans held hostage for 444 days in Iran after the takeover of the United States Embassy in Teheran in 1979, died Tuesday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 63 years old and lived in Warrenton, Va.
        Colonel Holland died of cancer, said Dolores Lawson of the hospital's casualty affairs department. He entered the hospital on Sept. 4.
        Iranian militants swarmed into the embassy on Nov. 4, 1979, and took Colonel Holland, who was the military attache, and the other American there as hostages. They were not released until the Inauguration Day of President Ronald Reagan in 1981.
        After their release, Colonel Holland and the other hostages told of beatings, months in solitary confinement, constant fear of death and physical and mental mistreatment at the hands of their Iranian captors.
        Colonel Holland enlisted in the Army in 1952 and retired in 1986, six days after he learned he had cancer. He served two tours of duty in Vietnam and also in Italy and Germany before being assigned to the embassy in Teheran in 1978.
        The colonel's military decorations included the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Anne; four sons, James L. and John S. of Warrenton, Joseph R. of Cincinnati and Jerome T. of Jersey City; two daughters, Barbara L. Holland of Fairfield, Ohio, and Rose M. Brinkman of Chaptico, Md.; his mother, Clara M. Holland of Galena, Ill.; two brothers, Edward A. of Scales Mound, Ill., and Robert P. of Renton, Wash., and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 12, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final
        The headline of an obituary on Oct. 5 about Leland Holland, one of the 52 Americans held hostage in the American Embassy in Iran for 444 days, misstated his age. He was 63 years old.
      