
        William French Smith, who served first as Ronald Reagan's personal lawyer in California and then accompanied him to Washington as his first Attorney General, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 73 years old.
        A spokeswoman for the hospital of the University of Southern California, where he died after spending most of the month in treatment, said the cause of death was cancer.
        As Attorney General from 1981 to 1984, Mr. Smith presided over profound changes in Federal policy on civil rights, antitrust enforcement and criminal justice. His espousal of conservative causes led to cries of outrage from civil rights and women's groups. But the overall effect of his efforts remains cloudy, since many changes were thwarted by Congress or the courts. Cool, Courteous, Professional
        Mr. Smith's courteous demeanor, conservative clothes and gray hair made him look the very model of a lawyer. He fitted the professional role in other ways as well, graduating from Harvard Law School in 1942 and moving to the upper echelons of the law.
        Friends described Mr. Smith as an intensely private, almost passionless professional who was cool in difficult circumstances and whose judgment as a corporate lawyer was virtually impeccable.
        Born Aug. 26, 1917, in Wilton, N.H., and raised in Boston, William French Smith was a member of an old New England family. Yet he was to say later that the call of the open spaces led to his enrollment in the University of California, Berkeley, from which he was graduated summa cum laude in 1939. He then returned east to get his law degree from Harvard.
        Mr. Smith served as a naval officer in the Pacific during World War II, then went on to join the Los Angeles law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, one of the largest in the area.
        He eventually became a senior partner and a top administrator of the firm, which at one time had 250 lawyers. In the 'Kitchen Cabinet'
        He met Mr. Reagan before the 1966 campaign for governor, eventually becoming a member of the influential circle of advisers who formed the new Governor's "kitchen cabinet."
        When Mr. Reagan was elected President in 1980, he made Mr. Smith the 74th Attorney General. In the conservative tide that swept over Washington in the early days of Mr. Reagan's term, the Justice Department reversed its position on major civil rights questions, re-interpreted antitrust law, called on the Supreme Court to reassess landmark rulings on abortion and sought to enforce a system of secrecy oaths and censorship for Government officials with access to intelligence data.
        Congress acted to block enforcement of the policy on secrecy, and the courts were not persuaded by many of the department's arguments on other issues.
        On abortion, the Justice Department urged the Supreme Court to "accord heavy deference" to the preferences of states and cities that tried to restrict access to abortion. 'Bigness' Vs. 'Badness'
        In a speech before the American Law Institute, Mr. Smith said the Justice Department would shift its emphasis away from the use of racial hiring quotas and mandatory busing and would seek other ways to curb job discrimination and school segregation.
        In an outline of the Reagan Administration's antitrust philosophy, Mr. Smith said in 1981 that "bigness in business does not necessarillly mean badness" and he called some previous antitrust policies "misguided and mistaken." A national wave of mergers and acquisitions followed.
        Mr. Smith also was credited with playing a major role in Mr. Reagan's nomination of Sandra Day O'Connor to be the first woman on the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Jean; three sons, William French Smith 3d, Scott Cameron Smith and Gregory Hale Smith; one daughter, Stephanie Oakes Lorenzen; a stepson, G. William Vaughan Jr.; a stepdaughter, Merry Vaughan Dunn, and seven grandchildren.
      