
       Scott M. Matheson, Governor of Idaho from 1977 to 1985, died yesterday at the University of Utah Health Sciences Center in Salt Lake City. He was 61 years old and lived in Salt Lake City.
        Scott M. Matheson, Governor of Idaho from 1977 to 1985, died yesterday at the University of Utah Health Sciences Center in Salt Lake City. He was 61 years old and lived in Salt Lake City.
        He died of bone marrow cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Matheson, a Democrat who was frequently a spokesman for his fellow Western governors in his two terms, was named chairman of the Democratic National Policy Commission in 1985 after he decided not to run for a third term.
        An Able Negotiator
        Virtually a political unknown when he was elected to succeed Gov. Calvin L. Rampton, a Democrat, after three terms, Mr. Matheson enjoyed considerable bipartisan support and was regularly able to get his proposals through the Legislature.
        Utah's current Governor, Norman H. Bangerter, a Republican who succeeded Mr. Matheson, said he was ''deeply saddened'' by Mr. Matheson's death.
        ''While we belonged to different political parties, Scott Matheson never let politics get in the way of doing what was right for the people of Utah,'' he said.
        As Governor, Mr. Matheson successfully opposed placement of the MX missile system in Utah's western desert and was an early campaigner against open-air testing of atomic weapons.
        His mother and several aunts, uncles and cousins had died of cancer, and he was particularly concerned about the effects of radiation on health. He vigorously opposed a proposal to put a high-level nuclear waste repository in southern Utah.
        Decisive Action in Flood
        Mr. Matheson fought for continued Federal financing of the huge Central Utah water-control project, and when parts of the state were devastated by flooding in 1983, he was credited with acting quickly and decisively to minimize the damage.
        Scott Milne Matheson was born in Chicago into a Mormon family. He received a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Utah and a law degree from Stanford University.
        He began a law practice in Iron County, Utah, in 1953 and five years later went to work for the Union Pacific railroad. He was the railroad's general counsel in 1976 when he ran for governor with the backing of Governor Rampton, a popular politician who had decided to return to a private law practice.
        When the campaign began, Mr. Matheson's name was identified by only 1.5 percent of the state's electorate in a name recognition survey. But he defeated a former Republican State Attorney General, Vernon Romney, and in 1980 won re-election by beating Robert Wright, a former Republican state chairman.
        After eight years as Governor, during which he customarily worked 70 hours a week and took no vacations, Mr. Matheson confessed that while he loved the job ''the hours began to wear me down.''
        After leaving office, he became a partner in the Salt Lake City law firm Parsons, Behle & Latimer and served in several Democratic policy positions. Earlier this year he withdrew his name from consideration as President Bush's nuclear waste negotiator.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Norma Warenski; three sons, Scott Jr. and James, both of Salt Lake City, and Thomas, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Lu Sweeney of Salt Lake City; two brothers, Alan, of Tempe, Ariz., and Stephen, of Salt Lake City; a sister, Bonnie Anderson of Provo, Utah, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 9, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary yesterday about Scott M. Matheson referred to him incorrectly in some copies. From 1977 to 1985 he was Governor of Utah, not of Idaho.
      