
        Joseph E. Johnson, a former president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, died of pneumonia on Wednesday at Virginia Baptist Hospital in Lynchburg, Va. He was 84 years old and lived in Lynchburg.
        Mr. Johnson's long career in international affairs included service in the State Department and several missions for the United Nations, most notably in the early 1960's as a special representative of the Concilition Commission for Palestine, for which he conducted an extensive study of the refugee problem in the Middle East. In 1969 he was an alternate United States representative to the General Assembly.
        Mr. Johnson was born in Longdale, Va., and raised in Scarsdale, N.Y. He held bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Harvard and taught at Bowdoin College for two years before joining the faculty of Williams College as a history instructor in 1936.
        Early in World War II he took leave from Williams to work for the State Department in Washington, where he became chief of the department's division of international security affairs. He took part in several international conferences involved in the organizing of the United Nations, and was briefly a member of the State Department's Policy Planning Staff before returning to Williams as a full professor in 1947.
        Appointed to Endowment in 1950
        He was named the fifth president of the Carnegie Endowment in 1950, succeeding James T. Shotwell. The endowment, founded in 1910 by Andrew Carnegie, conducts research and education programs in international affairs. Its headquarters were in New York when Mr. Johnson became its head but they are now in Washington.
        While heading the Carnegie Endowment Mr. Johnson served on the United Nations mission to the Middle East in 1961 and 1962 for the Conciliation Commission for Palestine. He traveled for more than a year in the region, studying various aspects of the refugee problem.
        His report recommended that the United Nations appoint a new administrator to carry out several resolutions of the organization urging that refugees displaced by the fighting between Arabs and Jews in 1948 be allowed to return to their homes in what had become Israel unless they posed risks to security. The recommendation was never implemented because of the continued Arab-Israeli dispute.
        Mr. Johnson was a trustee of the World Peace Foundation and a director of the Council on Foreign Relations. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Catherine Abbot, whom he married in 1930; a son, William, of Lynchburg; a daughter, Anne Stone of Washington; two granddaughters and one great-granddaughter.
      