
       Alexander E. Barkan, retired political director of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, died Thursday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 81 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Alexander E. Barkan, retired political director of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, died Thursday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 81 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        A daughter, Lois Wolkowitz, said he died of lung cancer.
        Mr. Barkan, a veteran of more than half a century of election battles, retired in 1981 as director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Committee on Political Education, a position he had held since 1963. As head of the committee, Mr. Barkan was organized labor's chief political fund-raiser, campaign organizer and political operative.
        He was the prototype of the political warhorse, widely respected by friend and foe for having created a strong and effective political operation. Year after year, under Mr. Barkan's guidance, union workers helped deliver reliable support for labor-backed candidates.
        Battle Cry: 'On to Victory'
        ''Al Barkan was one of labor's most dedicated and most unforgettable stalwarts,'' said Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''Few achieve the rank of legend, but Al did. He left an indelible memory with all of us and his work inspired more than one generation of trade unionists to continue their work 'on to victory.' ''
        ''On to Victory'' was Mr. Barkan's rallying cry to his troops as they sought to elect pro-labor candidates.
        His outspoken, crusty manner and opposition to party changes intended to benefit minorities and women alienated many Democrats. He often had violent disputes with Robert S. Strauss, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, over the way to run the party.
        At a retirement luncheon in December 1981, Mr. Strauss said that Mr. Barkan had given him ''the 15 happiest months of my life: the 15 months he wasn't speaking to me.''
        Deplored the Party Direction
        A few days earlier, in an interview with a reporter in his office in A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters across Lafayette Square from the White House, Mr. Barkan railed over the direction the Democratic Party had taken since the 1968 election when it was taken over ''by those phony liberals and feminists.''
        He predicted that the Democrats would win back the White House in 1984 ''provided the party doesn't screw it up with another bad candidate.'' President Ronald Reagan won re-election over Walter F. Mondale with 525 electoral votes to Mr. Mondale's 13 electoral votes.
        Mr. Barkan saw the political influence of labor recede from the days when it was considered a bloc vote to the period in which unionists ignored their leaders and voted as they pleased.
        Early Political Education
        Born Aug. 9, 1909, in Bayonne, N.J., Alexander Elias Barkan received his political education in Hudson County, N.J.
        ''I started to vote when I was 15 or 16 years old and used to vote 20 or 25 times an election,'' he said, explaining that it was safe to do so in Hudson County because all the judges were controlled by Frank Hague, the longtime Mayor of Jersey City and boss of the county's Democratic machine.
        He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1933 and became committed to trade unionism by listening to lectures by Clarence Darrow, the lawyer and civil rights advocate. He taught English for four years at Bayonne High School and then began working as a volunteer with the Textile Workers Union. He later joined the staff of the Textile Workers Organizing Committee.
        He served as a radioman in the Navy in World War II and in 1945 was named veterans director of the Congress of Industrial Organizations' Community Services Committee. In 1946. he was named executive secretary of the New Jersey C.I.O. Council and in 1948 he was appointed political director of the Textile Workers Union.
        With the merger of the C.I.O and the A.F.L. in 1955, Mr. Barkan became assistant director of the political action committee of the new labor federation. He was named deputy director in 1957 and served as acting director when James L. McDevitt died in March 1963. Mr. Barkan was appointed to the top post by George Meany, president of the federation, in December of that year. He retired at the end of 1981 but continued to work as a consultant on political matters until he became bedridden about a month ago.
        In addition to his daughter, Lois, of Chatham, N.J., he is survived by his wife, the former Helen Stickno; another daughter, Carol Alt of Potomac, Md.; a brother, Irving, of Bayonne; two sisters, Gertrude Iris of Brooklyn and Rose Minocow of Worcester, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      