
       Walter Ames Compton, a medical doctor who became a prominent pharmaceutical researcher and head of Miles Laboratories, one of the nation's leading manufacturers of health care products, died at the age of 79 on Thursday at his home in Elkhart, Ind.
        Walter Ames Compton, a medical doctor who became a prominent pharmaceutical researcher and head of Miles Laboratories, one of the nation's leading manufacturers of health care products, died at the age of 79 on Thursday at his home in Elkhart, Ind.
        He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for several years, his family said.
        In a research career that spanned nearly half a century, Dr. Compton was noted for his roles in a number of pharmaceutical and health-care advances, among them the development of the first multivitamin and more efficient tests for effects of diabetes.
        Dr. Compton was educated at Princeton University and Harvard Medical School, and he interned from 1937 to 1938 at Billings Hospital in Chicago. While in medical school he was a summer intern with Miles Laboratories in Elkhart, his hometown, and he longed to return to the world of invention after some discouraging experiences with some medical equipment, which he later called ''absolutely barbaric.''
        So he soon returned to Miles Laboratories, overseeing the company's research and development efforts in the 1940's and 1950's. In 1964 he became president and chief executive, and he was appointed chairman in 1973. On his retirement in 1981, he was made honorary chairman.
        His research led to the development of One-a-Day multivitamin supplements, introduced in 1940. The next year, the company began selling Clinitest, a tablet used to detect sugar in the urine, and Clinistix, a paper strip for the same purpose. Both were Dr. Compton's creations. His research also led in 1950 to Bactine, a nonstinging antiseptic, and in 1960 to Chocks, the first chewable multivitamin for children.
        Under Dr. Compton's direction as chief executive, sales at the company rose steadily from $100 million in 1963 to $537 million in 1978. In 1978, he helped organize the acquisition of Miles by the German company Bayer AG.
        Dr. Compton is survived by his wife, the former Phoebe Emerson; three daughters, Cynthia Mosher of Atlanta, Joan Compton of Godfrey, Ill., and Phoebe Brandt of Greenfield, Mass.; two sons, Walter Jr. of Boston and Gordon E. of Elkhart; a sister, Dorothy Berkey of Florida; a brother, George E. of Elkhart, and seven grandchildren.
      