
       Juan Jose Arevalo Bermejo, a former President of Guatemala whose Government modernized many of the country's institutions in the 1940's and launched a short-lived effort at broad social reform, died late Saturday in Guatemala City, members of his family said yesterday. He was 86 years old.
        Juan Jose Arevalo Bermejo, a former President of Guatemala whose Government modernized many of the country's institutions in the 1940's and launched a short-lived effort at broad social reform, died late Saturday in Guatemala City, members of his family said yesterday. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Arevalo's sister-in-law, America Barahona de Arevalo, said he died at a hospital in the capital, where he lived. She did not disclose the cause of his death.
        A former university professor, Mr. Arevalo returned from voluntary exile in Argentina to win easy election as president after an uprising by reformist military officers, students and teachers in October 1944 ended 14 years of military dictatorship.
        In the six-year tenure he began in 1945, Mr. Arevalo set up systems of social security and public hospitals, launched limited agrarian reforms, and freed the press and labor unions from repressive laws. He also strengthened the legislature, encouraged the formation of political parties and worked to integrate Indians, who represented about half the population, into the country's political life.
        ''Arevalo was really the founding father of modern Guatemala,'' said Stephen C. Schlesinger, co-author of ''Bitter Fruit,'' a history of the 1954 coup that returned military rule. ''He built up there many of the institutions that the New Deal established in this country.''
        A 'Spiritual Socialist'
        But taking power just after World War II, Mr. Arevalo's Government struggled throughout with its own ideological profile. Mr. Arevalo described himself as a ''spiritual socialist,'' sharply criticized more radical ideologies, and likened his reforms to those of President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the United States. Among Guatemalans to his ideological right, however, he was generally reviled as a Communist.
        Mr. Arevalo assured concerned United States officials that Communists, while present in his administration, held no significant power. But as leftists gained prominence, Mr. Arevalo's supporters within the military had to put down numerous attempts to oust him.
        The ideological conflict deepened in the administration of Mr. Arevalo's successor, Jacobo Arbenz Guzman. Mr. Arbenz was overthrown in a 1954 coup by military officers backed by the United States Central Intelligence Agency.
        Guatemala's military remained in power almost continuously until 1985, rolling back many of Mr. Arevalo's reforms and compiling one of Latin America's worst human rights records during an era when official abuses were more the rule than the exception in much of the region.
        Emigrates to Argentina
        Mr. Arevalo was born in the town of Taxisco, 65 miles southeast of Guatemala City, on September 10, 1904. After schooling in Guatemala and Argentina, he served briefly in Guatemala's Education Ministry, but soon left the country and moved to Argentina, where, as a professor of literature and ethics, he wrote patriotic textbooks that were widely used in Guatemala.
        After years of exile after the 1954 coup, Mr. Arevalo returned to Guatemala on March 29, 1963, when the military Government suggested that he would be allowed to again seek the presidency. The Government was ousted the next day, and Mr. Arevalo did not resettle in Guatemala until the mid-1970's.
        In December 1985, Mr. Arevalo marveled on meeting with Vinicio Cerezo Arevalo, hours after Mr. Cerezo was inaugurated as President, that he had never expected to live to see the return of civilian rule. He celebrated the occasion saying, ''The October revolution is going to have a second chapter.''
        But Mr. Arevalo also lived to see the promise of Mr. Cerezo's election dashed by persistent human rights abuses, an ineffectual civilian administration and deep economic problems.
        After his presidency, Mr. Arevalo wrote a book, ''The Shark and the Sardines,'' attacking the United States Government and powerful American companies for their treatment of Latin America.
      