
       Lawrence Kasha, a producer and director of Broadway shows who also acted and wrote for the stage, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Lawrence Kasha, a producer and director of Broadway shows who also acted and wrote for the stage, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        He died of brain cancer, said a friend, Sheryl Feuerstein.
        Mr. Kasha was a co-producer of several Broadway hits, including ''Applause,'' which won a Tony Award in 1970 as best musical, and ''Woman of the Year,'' which earned four Tonys in 1981. Both starred Lauren Bacall.
        His first Broadway musical, co-produced with Hal Prince and Philip C. McKenna in 1963, was ''She Loves Me,'' which won critical acclaim. It featured lyrics by Sheldon Harnick and music by Jerry Bock.
        'Bajour' and 'Funny Girl'
        Among other shows on Broadway that Mr. Kasha was involved with were ''Bajour'' (1964), which he directed, and ''Funny Girl'' (1964), for which he was associate director.
        After 1968, Mr. Kasha produced or co-produced a string of shows, including ''Hadrian VII,'' a successful London import in 1969; ''Applause'' the following year; ''See-Saw'' in 1974 starring Michele Lee and Tommy Tune, and ''Woman of the Year.''
        Mr. Kasha, who was born and grew up in Brooklyn, started in show business as a child actor, playing in such Broadway musicals as ''Brigadoon'' and ''Finian's Rainbow.''
        He created his first musical, ''Sing,'' while attending James Madison High School; the score later inspired a film of the same name. He produced his first Off Broadway revue, ''Parade,'' while he was still a student at New York University. He was also a graduate of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
        Revival of 'Show Boat'
        In 1966, Mr. Kasha staged a revival of the Jerome Kern-Oscar Hammerstein 2d musical ''Show Boat'' for the opening of the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center. He followed by directing an Off Broadway revival of Cole Porter's ''Anything Goes.''
        For television, Mr. Kasha produced the ''Knots Landing'' series for CBS-Lorimar and wrote and directed many of its episodes. As a writer, he co-authored the stage adaptation of the Cole Porter film ''The Pirate.'' In 1982, with his younger brother, Al, Mr. Kasha adapted the film musical ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers'' for the Broadway stage. It was a failure.
        His brother, who lives in Beverly Hills, is his only immediate survivor.
      