
        Jacques Demy, the French master of musical comedies best known for his 1963 film "Les Parapluies de Cherbourg" (' 'The Umbrellas of Cherbourg' '), died on Saturday. He was 59 years old.
        He died of a brain hemorrhage brought on by leukemia, associates said Sunday.
        Mr. Demy brought to France the musical comedy style made popular in Hollywood. Among his other major musicals was the acclaimed "Les Demoiselles de Rochefort" ("The Young Girls of Rochefort") of 1966, starring Catherine Deneuve and her sister, Francoise Dorleac.
        He also directed "The Model Shop," a view of the underside of Los Angeles, and "Peau d'Ane" ("Donkey Skin"), the film version of a fairy tale, in 1970.
        "Les Parapluies de Cherbourg" firmly established Mr. Demy as a leading director of musicals when it won the Palme D'Or, the top award, at the Cannes International Film Festival in 1964. The dialogue was all sung, to music by Michel Legrand, and the film told the story of the love affair between a garage mechanic (Nino Castelnuovo) and the daughter (Miss Deneuve) of the proprietor of an umbrella shop in the port city of Cherbourg. In his review in The New York Times, Bosley Crowther called the film "a cinematic confection so shiny and sleek and sugar-sweet -- so studiously sentimental -- it comes suspiciously close to a spoof."
        Born in the Atlantic village of Pontchateau in 1931, Mr. Demy studied at the Technical College of Fine Arts in Nantes and the Technical School of Photography in Paris.
        After directing several short works, he made his first feature-length film, "Lola," in 1960, with Anouk Aimee in the title role. It was warmly received by critics. In 1962 he directed "La Baie des Anges" ("Bay of Angels") with Jeanne Moreau, a story of two gamblers at the oceanside casinos of Nice, which also reflected Mr. Demy's passion for the sea.
        He won the national Grand Prix of Cinema for his 1982 "Chambre en Ville" ("A Room in the City"). He called the film a "musical tragicomedy." At the time, he explained: "In the last 20 years, since 'Les Parapluies de Cherbourg,' things have changed. My story is more violent, more passionate, and has become more funny."
        His last film, in 1988, was "Trois Places Pour le 26" ("Three Places for the 26th"), starring Yves Montand.
        Mr. Demy is survived by his wife, the director Agnes Varda, and a son, Mathieu, and a daughter, Rosalie.
      