
       Peter Herman Adler, a conductor who pioneered opera on television as artistic director of the NBC Opera Company and National Educational Television, died in his sleep early yesterday at the home of friends in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 91 years old.
        Peter Herman Adler, a conductor who pioneered opera on television as artistic director of the NBC Opera Company and National Educational Television, died in his sleep early yesterday at the home of friends in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 91 years old.
        The cause of death had yet to be determined, said a friend, the conductor Robert Bass.
        Born in Jablonec in what is now Czechoslovakia, Mr. Adler studied composition and conducting with Alexander von Zemlinsky at the Prague Conservatory. In the late 1920's he worked with Leos Janacek on a Prague production of ''Jenufa,'' and in the 1930's he was music director of the Bremen State Opera and of the State Philharmonia of Kiev. He also appeared throughout Europe as a guest conductor.
        Commissioned Important Scores
        Mr. Adler emigrated to the United States in 1939 and made his debut with the New York Philharmonic in 1940. His tenure as music and artistic director of the NBC Opera came between 1949 and 1959. The opera company was initially an adjunct of the NBC Symphony, and its conductor, Arturo Toscanini, approved all policy decisions until he retired in 1954. Mr. Adler was also music and artistic director of the National Educational Television network, the predecessor of the Public Broadcasting Service, in 1969.
        In his television career Mr. Adler commissioned several significant scores. For NBC his commissions included Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Amahl and the Night Visitors'' and ''Maria Golovin,'' Norman Dello Joio's ''St. Joan'' and Bohuslav Martinu's ''Marriage''; for National Educational Television, Jack Beeson's ''My Heart's in the Highlands,'' Thomas Pasatieri's ''Trial of Mary Lincoln'' and Hans Werner Henze's ''Cubana.'' He was also involved in the early career development of such singers as Leontyne Price, George London and Mario Lanza.
        His activities outside television included the music directorship of the Baltimore Symphony from 1959 to 1968, appearances at the Metropolitan Opera starting in 1972 and the directorship of the American Opera Center at the Juilliard School from 1973 until his retirement in 1981.
        There are no survivors.
        Correction:  October 8, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Wednesday about Peter Herman Adler, a conductor, omitted a survivor. He is Mr. Adler's nephew, Henry Basch of Princeton, N.J. In some copies the headline misstated Mr. Adler's age; it was 91.
      