
       Melvin M. Payne, chairman emeritus of the board of the National Geographic Society, died Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Melvin M. Payne, chairman emeritus of the board of the National Geographic Society, died Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        He died of pneumonia, the society said.
        Mr. Payne was a scientific leader of the society for several decades and conducted many adventurous research trips to distant points on the globe.
        He began work for the society as a secretary in 1932 when he was 21 years old. He retired from the top post in 1987 after 55 years with the organization but continued to be active in its affairs.
        His first major assignment, in 1935, was to set up tent cities in the Black Hills of South Dakota for scientific and military researchers making balloon flights into the stratosphere. That year one balloon, Explorer II, soared to a height of 13.712 miles, a record that stood for 21 years.
        Farflung Assignments
        As project officer of an Air Force-National Geographic team in 1947 he went to Bocaiuva, Brazil, to make a highly successful record of a solar eclipse. In 1963 he rode a canvas sack down into the Sacred Well of the Mayans at Chichen Itza, Mexico, where the society recovered relics and bones of human sacrifices.
        From 1975 until last year Mr. Payne was chairman of the society's committee for research and exploration, which allots $5 million a year to scientists. He was a major supporter of Capt. Jacques-Yves Cousteau's underwater explorations, of the first American ascent of Mount Everest, of Dr. Louis Leakey's search for early man in East Africa and of Jane Goodall's study of wild chimpanzees.
        Mr. Payne, a native of Washington, became vice president of the society in 1958, executive vice president and secretary in 1962, president in 1967 and board chairman in 1976.
        In recognition of a half-century of service to the society, he was awarded its Grosvenor Medal in 1982. Eight years earlier he had received the Conservation Service Award, the highest honor of the Interior Department, where for several years he was chairman of the Advisory Board on National Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings and Monuments.
        Mr. Payne is survived by his wife, the former Ethel McDonnell; two daughters, Fran, of Olney, Md., and Nancy, of Boca Raton, Fla; a brother, Stanley, of Rockville, Md.; a sister, Lois Grimm of McLean, Va., three grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      