
       J. W. (Bill) Fisher, an industrialist and philanthropist who was internationally known for his interest in the performing arts, died Thursday at his home in Marshalltown, Iowa. He was 76 years old and died of a respiratory ailment, a funeral home representative said.
        J. W. (Bill) Fisher, an industrialist and philanthropist who was internationally known for his interest in the performing arts, died Thursday at his home in Marshalltown, Iowa. He was 76 years old and died of a respiratory ailment, a funeral home representative said.
        Mr. Fisher was a 1936 graduate of Iowa State University. He joined Fisher Controls, a Marshalltown company founded by his family that manufactures automatic control valves, in 1940. After serving with the United States Army in World War II, he was named vice president in 1944. Ten years later, he became president of the company and remained in the post even after the company, the area's largest employer, merged with the Monsanto Company. He stepped down as chief executive officer in 1971 and retired in 1974 as chairman of the board.
        Major Force in Opera
        Mr. Fisher was a major force in opera in the United States, contributing substantial sums to opera companies and theater groups in 25 cities. He was a major benefactor of the Metropolitan Opera in New York and served on its board of directors for 35 years.
        He created a personal foundation, the Gramma Fisher Foundation, to honor his mother and to support dance companies, theater groups, opera companies and museums. In the 1960's and 70's it contributed millions of dollars to the Metropolitan Opera to finance productions of operas that Mr. Fisher liked. He was also a major force in getting opera companies to share productions with one another, including sets, costumes and sometimes directors.
        Mr. Fisher was the first president of the Iowa Symphony Society and helped establish the Fisher Theater at Iowa State University in Ames. He and his family contributed generously to civic causes in Marshalltown, including the Fisher Community Center, the YMCA and YWCA and the Fisher Art Collection. He was also instrumental in bringing major performing artists, including the soprano Beverly Sills, to Marshalltown.
        He was the recipient of numerous awards, including the National Medal of Arts given to him by President Ronald Reagan in 1987 for his support of the arts.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Russell of Lake Forest, Ill,; a daughter, Christine Hunter of Easton, Md.; a sister, Martha Ellen Tye of Marshalltown, and five grandchildren.
      