
       Anatole Broyard, a book critic, essayist and editor for The New York Times for 18 years until his retirement in June 1989, died yesterday morning at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. He was 70 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Anatole Broyard, a book critic, essayist and editor for The New York Times for 18 years until his retirement in June 1989, died yesterday morning at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. He was 70 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        His wife, Alexandra, said the cause of death was prostate cancer.
        The novelist and essayist Herbert Gold said yesterday: ''For people of his generation and mine, living in the Village, Anatole was the image of the Bohemian writer. In his stories and his style, he was my idea of a hipster -and he was one of the first to write about hipsters. Anatole invented his life as he went along, and I admired him for his ironic sense of fun.''
        Mr. Broyard worked as an editor of The New York Times Book Review, previewing and assigning fiction books, for three years. Before then, he served as a daily book critic for nearly 15 years.
        An Essay and a Column
        After retiring, Mr. Broyard continued to contribute a monthly essay, ''About Books,'' to The New York Times Book Review, and to compile the unsigned column ''Noted With Pleasure,'' which appears every week on The Book Review's penultimate page.
        During the last few years, Mr. Broyard worked on a memoir of the years he lived in Greenwich Village when he knew such writers as Delmore Schwartz and Maxwell Bodenheim. He had a Guggenheim fellowship to complete the memoir, but he deferred that book when he learned that he had cancer and began to write a book, based on a series of revealing articles in The New York Times Magazine and The Book Review, about his own illness and about illness in general. He was able to complete part of his memoir before his death.
        The articles about illness, which were frank about his physical condition yet succeeded in maintaining a link to the life of the mind and literature, aroused a highly favorable response from readers.
        What His Illness Meant to Him
        In an ''About Men'' column last year in the Nov. 12 Times Magazine, titled ''Intoxicated by My Illness,'' Mr. Broyard wrote:
        ''I thought that time had tapped me on the shoulder, that I had been given a deadline at last. It wasn't that I believed the cancer was going to kill me, even though it had spread beyond the prostate - it could probably be controlled, either by radiation or hormonal manipulation. No, what struck me was the startled awareness that one day something, whatever it might be, was going to interrupt my leisurely progress. It sounds trite, yet I can only say that I realized for the first time that I don't have forever.''
        Another article in The Times Magazine on Aug. 26, titled, ''Doctor, Talk to Me,'' envisioned an ideal physician who would treat a patient's body, and his soul. Mr. Broyard concluded:
        ''In learning to talk to his patients, the doctor may talk himself back into loving his work. He has little to lose and much to gain by letting the sick man into his heart. If he does, they can share, as few others can, the wonder, terror and exaltation of being on the edge of being, between the natural and the supernatural.''
        His Taste in Literature
        In choosing books to review, Mr. Broyard favored fiction and belles-lettres. He often emphasized an author's literary abilities and was particularly interested in the use of language. In his own writing, he reached for inventive metaphors and similes. Quotations from the works of European novelists and philosophers, some of them esoteric, regularly appeared in his reviews.
        For example, in a review of Alfred Kazin's ''Our New York'' published on Jan. 14, in The Times Book Review, Mr. Broyard quoted Nietzsche, Henry James, Walter Benjamin, Kafka, Cyril Connolly, Harold Rosenberg and Irving Howe.
        During World War II, Mr. Broyard served as a troop transport officer in the Pacific Theater.
        Born in New Orleans
        He was born July 16, 1920, in New Orleans, the son of Anatole Broyard, a builder and construction worker, and his wife, Edna. After moving to New York before World War II, he studied at Brooklyn College and the New School for Social Research. He contributed articles and short stories to The Partisan Review, The New Republic, Commentary and other magazines.
        He was author of two books, ''Aroused by Books'' (Random House, 1974), which had a selection of his book reviews, and ''Men, Women and Other Anticlimaxes'' (Methuen, 1980), a collection of essays.
        During much of his career, he also taught creative writing at Columbia University, the New School or New York University. He moved from Connecticut to Cambridge, Mass., two years ago, but continued to teach fiction privately.
        He is survived by his wife, Alexandra, a son, Todd, of Hartford, a daughter, Bliss, of Boston, and two sisters, Lorraine Broyard and Shirley Broyard Williams, both of New York City.
      