
        Herbert Brodkin, a television producer celebrated for his dramas on social issues on such series as "Playhouse 90" and "The Defenders," died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 77 years old and had homes in Manhattan; Old Lyme, Conn., and Saltaire, on Fire Island.
        He died of an aneurysm, said his secretary, Anna May Franklin.
        In nearly four decades in television, Mr. Brodkin addressed substantive and often provocative subjects, some of them new or taboo on television, including Nazism, atomic war, racial bigotry and medical malpractice. Conflicts with programmers and censors frequently arose, and Mr. Brodkin was outspoken in criticizing the medium.
        In 1985 he told a reporter that television had collapsed in the 1950's and never really ried to save itself.
        "Largely," he said, "people have been trained by the networks to be morons. Instead of giving them anything good, the networks claim to be giving them what they want. They have reduced the audience's level of receptivity to a bunch of monkeys asking for the same peanuts. And they are the same organ grinders giving it to them."
        He was interviewed in connection with a retrospective of his work at the Museum of Broadcasting, which cited the "conviction and integrity" of his shows and described him as a chief architect of the golden age of television.
        Hundreds of Shows
        Mr. Brodkin started his television career as a set designer for CBS in the early 1950's. He soon achieved recognition, producing hundreds of shows for dramatic series like "The Elgin Hour," "The Alcoa Hour-Goodyear Playhouse," "Studio One" and "Playhouse 90"
        As live shows began to dwindle in the late 1950's and the television industry shifted to Hollywood, Mr. Brodkin remained in New York City and started producing filmed series, including "The Defenders," which ran on CBS from 1961 to 1965 and won more than two dozen Emmy Awards.
        "The Defenders," about a father (played by E. G. Marshall) and son (Robert Reed) who are lawyers, often dealt with subjects, like euthanasia and blacklisting, that were touchy for television. It also used techniques for which Mr. Brodkin became known, including close-ups and fast cuts.
        "When somebody opened the door," he once recalled, "we didn't have to show him coming out the other side. We'd show him getting into a car in the street and you'd accept the time lapse. . . . By staying close, we put the emphasis on the word, on the writing and not on action."
        For CBS, he also produced the "Brenner" series (1960), "The Nurses," (1962 to 1965), "For the People" (1965) and "Coronet Blue" (1966). For NBC, he produced "Espionage (1962-63).
        'Holocaust' to 'Mandela'
        In the 1960's, he and Robert Berger formed Titus Productions, an independent company whose programs included "Holocaust," the 1978 NBC mini-series that achieved the second highest A. C. Nielsen ratings up to that time, after "Roots," with a cast that included Michael Moriarty, Meryl Streep and Rosemary Harris, and "Skokie" (1981), a CBS special about attempts to prevent American Nazi demonstrations, starring Danny Kaye as a Jewish businessman. Other productions by Titus, which closed last July, were "Pueblo" (1973) "The Missiles of October" (1974), "Sakharov" (1984) and "Mandela" (1987).
        Mr. Brodkin received a bachelor of arts degree in drama from the University of Michigan in 1934 and a master of fine arts in directing and set design at the Yale School of Drama. He then designed scenery for repertory companies and Hollywood studios.
        During World War II, he directed military films and produced 300 legitimate plays. After the war, he designed scenery and directed productions in summer stock and in New York.
        Surviving are two daughters, Lucinda D. and Brigit A. Brodkin, both of New York City, and two sisters, Pat Cutler of San Francisco and Beatrice Forrest of San Diego.
      