
       Joel McCrea, a tall, trim, ruggedly handsome actor who radiated a casual, amiable image in 80 movies, many of them westerns, died yesterday of pulmonary complications at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Joel McCrea, a tall, trim, ruggedly handsome actor who radiated a casual, amiable image in 80 movies, many of them westerns, died yesterday of pulmonary complications at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        The actor, who spoke in a resonant twang, gave his most compelling performances in the early 1940's. He played the title role in Alfred Hitchcock's thriller ''Foreign Correspondent'' and a naive film director seeking out serious issues in Preston Sturges's ''Sullivan's Travels.'' He was a dapper resident of wartime Washington in George Stevens's ''More the Merrier,'' the flamboyant protagonist of William A. Wellman's ''Buffalo Bill'' and the courageous inventor of anesthesia in Sturges's ''Great Moment.''
        Other major performances were in ''These Three,'' a 1936 triangle centered on malicious gossip; ''Come and Get It,'' a freewheeling 1936 tale about lumber camps; ''Interns Can't Take Money,'' a 1937 hospital melodrama in which he introduced the young Dr. Kildare; two western epics, ''Wells Fargo'' (1937) and ''Union Pacific'' (1939), and ''The Palm Beach Story,'' a 1942 screwball comedy.
        Occupation: 'Rancher'
        Mr. McCrea was a dependable, even-tempered leading man who casually acknowledged that some important western roles he was offered had been rejected by Gary Cooper and that some major light comedy parts had been turned down by Cary Grant. Characteristically, he regarded the two actors not as opponents but as friends, modestly remarking, ''I turned down as many roles that I thought were beyond my abilities as I did ones I thought weren't good enough.''
        The actor was a fervid outdoorsman who believed deeply in the work ethic, virtually never smoked or drank, and invariably listed his occupation as ''rancher'' and his hobby as ''acting.'' He began buying farmland with his first movie paychecks and became one of Hollywood's wealthiest ranchers, with large working spreads in Camarillo, northwest of Los Angeles, and in Shandon, farther north.
        He was known as a frugal millionaire, a committed Republican, a devoted fan of the pioneer cowboy actor William S. Hart and the humorist Will Rogers, and a longtime friend of the publisher William Randolph Hearst. Mr. McCrea was a frequent guest at the Hearst estate at San Simeon, Calif.
        Chose to Depict 'Right Over Evil'
        Mr. McCrea's accelerating income permitted him to choose his later roles with care. In World War II, he refused to portray military heroes, with the explanation, ''Since I was too old to be called, I was too old for that kind of a show.''
        In 1945, he refused to appear in a sexy, highly publicized melodrama with Lana Turner, ''The Postman Always Rings Twice,'' saying: ''This character is too much of a gigolo. I don't like his moral standards.'' In a 1985 interview he said he had always ''wanted to be the guy who rode off into the sunset,'' to represent ''right over evil.''
        Joel McCrea was born on Nov. 5, 1905, in South Pasadena, Calif., of Scottish-Irish descent. His family moved to Hollywood when he was 9. He attended Hollywood High School and Pomona College, where he studied drama and appeared in plays.
        His father, Thomas McCrea, was a utility executive. ''The family was moderately well-off,'' the actor once told an interviewer, ''but I always wanted to work and own my own things.'' So, from the age of 9, he was successively a home-delivery newsboy, a construction-site teamster and later a movie wrangler, stunt man and bit player. From his youth, he maintained his own horses and rode them all around town.
        First Leading Role at 24
        He won featured roles at the age of 23 and his first leading role at 24, in an action film, ''The Silver Horde,'' which brought him invaluable instruction from a co-star, Louis Wolheim.
        ''He taught me more in 10 weeks than I had learned in four years of college,'' Mr. McCrea recalled. ''He used to tell me how mentally lazy I was. 'You've got to think, not act,' he'd say. 'Your face is expressive enough. When you think, I can read your thoughts. So, if you want to show you are mad, don't scowl: just think mad and you'll look mad.' ''
        Mr. McCrea appeared in a dizzying total of 38 movies in the 1930's, smoothly alternating between action-adventure films, melodramas, dramas, romances and comedies. The films included ''The Lost Squadron'' (1932), ''The Most Dangerous Game'' (1932), ''Private Worlds'' (1935), ''Barbary Coast'' (1935), ''Dead End'' (1937) and ''They Shall Have Music'' (1939). Later movies included ''Primrose Path'' (1940), ''Reaching for the Sun'' (1941) and ''The Unseen'' (1945).
        After World War II, he settled into western roles in such movies as ''The Virginian'' (1946), ''Four Faces West'' (1948), ''Colorado Territory'' (1949), ''Stars in My Crown'' (1950) and ''Ride the High Country'' (1962). In the last, a low-budget classic directed by Sam Peckinpah, Mr. McCrea and Randolph Scott were teamed winningly as a pair of leathery, graying cowpokes.
        Frontier Roots
        Mr. McCrea and the actress Frances Dee celebrated their 57th wedding anniversary this year. They lived during their entire marriage in Thousand Oaks, Calif., and had three sons, Joel (Jody), David and Peter. Jody McCrea played young leading roles in films of the late 1950's and 60's and portrayed a deputy marshal to his father in a western television series, ''Wichita Town,'' broadcast in 1959 and 1960.
        The family's frontier roots were deep. Joel McCrea's paternal grandfather, Maj. John McCrea, had been a stagecoach driver between San Bernardino and Los Angeles; his maternal grandfather, Albert Whipple, was lured to San Francisco by the 1849 gold rush.
        In 1985, the actor observed that all his ancestors had been frontiersmen. Noting that many of his roles were variations of them, he concluded, ''That's why my heart was in it.''
      