
        Zenon C. R. Hansen, chairman, president and chief executive of Mack Trucks Inc. in the 1960's and 1970's, died Friday at his home in Sebring, Fla. He was 81 years old.
        A spokeswoman for the family said he died of leukemia.
        Mr. Hansen, who is credited with turning Allentown, Pa., into "the truck capital of the world," joined the company in 1965 as its fifth chief executive in less than 10 years. In the nine and a half years he ran the company, he not only turned it around but also was so successful that Mack, for the first time in its history, reached $1 billion in annual sales.
        Mr. Hansen stepped down as president and chief executive in 1972. He remained chairman until 1974, when he retired. 'A Tough and Reliable Symbol'
        The first thing he did on taking the job with Mack was put his basic business tenet into effect: "The most important thing to a company is spirit; without that, you have nothing."
        He chose the Mack bulldog, the company's corporate symbol, as the means of injecting new life into the concern. "It was the best-known symbol in the trucking business, and it typified what I wanted the company to stand for: a tough and reliable product," Mr. Hansen said.
        He centralized Mack's operation by moving corporate headquarters to Allentown, the site of its assembly plant, and improving its components plant in Hagerstown, Md.
        He also moved the company into the West Coast trucking market and substantially improved labor relations. One of his most important decisions was to move the constant horsepower Maxidyne diesel engine off the drawing boards to the market.
        Mr. Hansen was born in Hibbing, Minn., and got his start in the trucking business as a teen-ager in 1927, when he took a summer job with the International Harvester Company in Sioux City, Iowa, before going to college. He liked the job so much he stayed.
        After 17 years with Harvester, he quit in 1944 to become general manager of a distributor of Diamond T trucks based in Portland, Ore. In 12 years he worked himself up to the presidency of Diamond T.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marilyn Hallman.
      