
       Norbert Vesak, a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and a choreographer for many American and Canadian dance companies, died on Tuesday. He was 53 years old.
        Norbert Vesak, a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and a choreographer for many American and Canadian dance companies, died on Tuesday. He was 53 years old.
        He died of an aneurysm in the brain, said his companion, Robert Delarose.
        Mr. Vesak became ill at the airport in Charlotte, N.C., and was taken to the Charlotte Memorial Medical Center, where he died.
        Mr. Vesak was in North Carolina for the 20th-anniversary celebration of North Carolina Dance Theater, which had revived ''The Gray Goose of Silence,'' a work he choreographed for the company in 1975.
        Mr. Vesak was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, and lived in San Francisco and New York City in recent years. He studied with teachers in Vancouver and with Margaret Craske, Merce Cunningham, Geoffrey Holder, Pauline Koner and La Meri, among others, in New York.
        Of the Classical and Contemporary An eclectic choreographic, Mr. Vesak participated in the first Canadian Modern Dance Festival, held in Toronto in 1963. During the next few years, he tried to found companies in Vancouver that could perform both classical and contemporary choreography, but he failed for lack of financial support.
        As director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet from 1976 to 1980 and as guest choreographer at the Met on several occasions afterward, he staged the dances in such operas as ''Don Giovanni,'' ''La Gioconda'' and ''Tannhauser.''
        He was particularly successful as a freelance choreographer. The Royal Winnipeg Ballet in Canada commissioned two of his best-known works, ''The Ecstasy of Rita Joe'' (1971), about the death of an Indian woman, and ''What to Do Till the Messiah Comes'' (1973), a visionary ballet set to rock music.
        With Many Companies
        Because he was known for the individual attention he gave to dancers, Mr. Vesak was much in demand as a choreographer and as a teacher.
        Over the years, he was associated with such organizations as the National Association for Regional Ballet, the Joffrey II Dancers, the San Francisco Opera Ballet, the National Ballet of Canada, the Winnipeg Contemporary Dancers, the Alberta Ballet, Ballet Florida in Palm Beach and the Marin Ballet in San Rafael, Calif.
        Mr. Vesak is survived by his mother, Nora Vesak of Vancouver.
      