
       J. Murray Mitchell Jr., a leading government climatologist who warned for years of increasing evidence of global warming and of other human influences on the climate, died Friday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington after a long illness. He was 62 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        J. Murray Mitchell Jr., a leading government climatologist who warned for years of increasing evidence of global warming and of other human influences on the climate, died Friday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington after a long illness. He was 62 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        His family did not disclose the cause of death.
        For more than 35 years, Dr. Mitchell was a senior expert on climate for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other Federal agencies.
        Long before global climatic trends became big environmental news, he pioneered efforts to understand and alert the nation to the causes of cyclical droughts, periods of heavy rain, long-term changes in temperature and atmosphere and the pressures of human population growth on the climate.
        Warnings on the Weather
        In the 1960's, before the birth of modern environmentalism, Dr. Mitchell warned that man-made effects on weather and the climate were no longer trivial and should be studied urgently before they grew beyond control.
        He studied sunspot cycles, lunar influences, tree rings, volcanic activity and other phenomena for clues to the past and future of the earth's climate. In 1976, he termed irresponsible the predictions that the planet faced an impending ice age.
        In the mid-70's, when other scientists warned that man's output of heat threatened to melt the polar ice caps and flood coastal regions, he concurred and warned of increasing amounts of carbon dioxide that an industrial world was spewing into the atmosphere.
        Dr. Mitchell in recent years cited growing evidence that the world's gradually warming climate - an average of 1 degree over the last century, and 3 to 5 degrees in polar regions - was a result of a greenhouse effect in which the burning of fossil fuels in industrialized nations produces carbon dioxide and other gases that prevent the earth's heat from escaping into space. Such global warming could alter weather patterns and disrupt agriculture.
        A tall, athletic outdoorsman who enjoyed handball, jogging and hiking, Dr. Mitchell continued to serve as a climatology consultant to the government after he retired as a senior research climatologist for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in 1986.
        A Puzzling Arctic Haze
        John Murray Mitchell Jr. was born in New York City on Sept. 17, 1928, and grew up in Tuxedo Park, N.Y., where he became interested in weather and climate as a teen-ager. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, earning a bachelor's degree in 1951 and a master's degree in 1952.
        For the next three years, he was a weather officer with the United States Air Force, serving in Alaska, where he observed a puzzling Arctic spring haze that sometimes grew as intense as the smog in Los Angeles. After studying its particles, he postulated that the haze came from industrial Europe and China.
        Dr. Mitchell was a research metrologist with the United States Weather Bureau from 1955 to 1965 and earned a doctorate at Pennsylvania State University in 1960. In 1965, he joined the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as a project scientist and became a senior climatologist in 1974, science adviser in 1982 and senior research climatologist in 1983.
        He wrote numerous articles for books, encyclopedias, magazines and technical journals, and since 1978 had been executive editor of Weatherwise magazine. He received several awards from the Commerce Department and nongovernmental organizations.
        Dr. Mitchell is survived by his wife, the former Pollyanne Bryant, whom he married in 1956; two sons, John, of Annapolis, Md., and Brian, of Lancaster, Pa.; two daughters, Katherine Mitchell Abib of Houston and Anne Stuart Mitchell of Wellesley, Mass., and a sister, Lillian Mitchell Norman, of Vero Beach, Fla.
      