
       Douglas Campbell, the first American-trained air ace in World War I, who was later a general manager of Pan American Grace Airways, died yesterday at his home in Cos Cob, Conn. He was 94 years old.
        Douglas Campbell, the first American-trained air ace in World War I, who was later a general manager of Pan American Grace Airways, died yesterday at his home in Cos Cob, Conn. He was 94 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his wife, Virginia, said.
        Mr. Campbell, a 1917 graduate of Harvard University, joined the Army Air Service just after the United States entered World War I and trained as a pilot in the United States. He was sent to France and after several months of training joined the First Pursuit Group of the 94th Aero Squadron in Toul, France.
        On April 14, 1918, his first day of combat operations, he shot down his first German plane, an Albatross. A second German plane was shot down in his first dogfight between German pilots and American fliers serving with Gen. John J. Pershing's American Expeditionary Forces. Lieutenant Campbell and the pilot of the other American plane, Lieut. Alan F. Winslow, were awarded the Croix de Guerre by the French.
        Earning the Title
        A few weeks later, on May 18, Lieutenant Campbell shot down a second plane. He destroyed a third on May 19 and a fourth on May 27. On May 28, he attacked another plane, but its destruction was not confirmed. On May 31, the 22-year-old lieutenant was credited with his fifth confirmed kill and earned the title of ace. He shot down a sixth plane on June 5.
        Two American pilots, Maj. William Thaw and Capt. D. M. K. Peterson, had each previously downed five planes and had earned the same designation of ace, but they had trained in France with the Lafayette Escadrille, not under American commanders.
        After the war, he went to work for W. R. Grace & Company, first in New York and later, for 11 years, as general administrator of sugar plantations in Peru. In 1935, he was named assistant treasurer of Pan American Grace Airways, a jointly owned company known in South America as Panagra. He was named a vice president of Panagra in 1939 and became its general manager in 1948. He retired in 1963.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by four sons, William, of Inverness, Calif., Douglas Jr., of Riverside, Conn., David, of Hamden, Conn., and Ronald, of Glastonbury, Conn.; two daughters, Elizabeth Morris of Concord, Mass., and Susan Siciliano of San Diego; 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      