
       Brig. Gen. John Groff, the oldest surviving general in the United States Marine Corps, died Tuesday at the Tri-City Hospital in Oceanside, Calif. He was 100 years old.
        Brig. Gen. John Groff, the oldest surviving general in the United States Marine Corps, died Tuesday at the Tri-City Hospital in Oceanside, Calif. He was 100 years old.
        General Groff, who lived in Oceanside, died of a heart attack, his family said.
        General Groff went from private to general in a 34-year career in the Marines. He enlisted as a private in 1912 and was a gunnery sergeant at the World War I battle of Belleau Wood. In that battle, one of the bloodiest in the history of the corps, the Germans were stopped as they pushed toward Paris in 1918.
        Wounded in the battle, he was awarded the Navy Cross, the Distinguised Service Medal and the Purple Heart. He received a battlefield promotion to second lieutenant when he rejoined his unit after recovering from his wounds.
        'Devil Dogs,' to Germans
        ''We didn't realize we were going to get shot like that,'' General Groff said much later. ''We lined up and went into the woods, and then all hell broke loose.'' When the battle was over, German troops dubbed the marines ''devil dogs'' in tribute to their fighting qualities.
        In 1921, General Groff served as part of the United States peacekeeping force in Haiti. In 1938, then a major, he was named commander of the Marine Corps Recruit Depot in San Diego, a post he held until he retired from the corps in 1946. He was made a brigadier general just before his military retirement. He worked for the Hughes Aircraft Company and the Douglas Aircraft Company before finally retiring in 1953.
        General Groff, a native of Syracuse, was a graduate of Catholic University.
        Surviving are a son, John L. Groff of Poway, Calif.; two daughters, Mildred Anna Hanson of Bothell, Wash., and Pauline Ethel Roulston of Victorville, Calif.; 15 grandchildren, and 18 great-grandchildren. Another son, Goodwin, was killed in action while serving in the Marines in the Korean War.
      