
       Richard Schwarz, a film archivist and owner of the Thalia, the now-defunct Upper West Side theater venerated by generations of classic movie lovers, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Richard Schwarz, a film archivist and owner of the Thalia, the now-defunct Upper West Side theater venerated by generations of classic movie lovers, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack, his sister, Gail Aronow, said.
        The Thalia, on Broadway between 94th and 95th Streets, started out in 1931 as a refuge for European classics. But it had fallen on hard times by 1977, when Mr. Schwarz bought it, repaired it and restored the revivals, classics and foreign films that had made the theater the darling of New York film buffs.
        In an interview a few months after he took over the theater, Mr. Schwarz said that as in the Thalia of old, he intended to stress films ''that are of high quality and not generally available elsewhere.''
        He succeeded in restoring the Thalia's reputation as a high-level revival house with films like Chekhov's ''Uncle Vanya'' (1963) with Laurence Olivier and Michael Redgrave.
        In 1987, at the end of a 10-year lease, the Thalia closed, squeezed out like other movie houses on upper Broadway to make way for real estate development. In that same year, Mr. Schwarz opened Thalia Soho and bought Cinema Village, but both art theaters closed down earlier this year.
        A native of Middletown, Conn., Mr. Schwarz studied in the film department of Emerson College in Boston. He operated small theaters in Massachusetts and Poughkeepsie, N.Y., before coming to New York City in 1976.
        Mr. Schwarz's companion was James Poling of Manhattan. He is survived by his mother, Elaine, of Santa Monica, Calif.; his father, Bernard, of Old Lyme, Conn.; and two sisters, Gail Aronow and Sally Phillips, both of Santa Monica.
      