
       Irene Mayer Selznick, who produced Broadway plays that included the 1947 hit ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' died yesterday at the Pierre Hotel, where she lived. She was 83 years old.
        Irene Mayer Selznick, who produced Broadway plays that included the 1947 hit ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' died yesterday at the Pierre Hotel, where she lived. She was 83 years old.
        Her physician, Dr. Frank Petito. said that she died in her sleep and the cause of her death was unknown.
        A striking woman with piercing dark eyes, Mrs. Selznick wrote in her 1983 memoir, ''A Private View'': ''I see now that I've had three lives - one as the daughter of my father, another as the wife of my husband. The theater furnished me with a third act. I'd have settled for so much less.''
        All three lives were at the topmost peaks of show business. She began as the sheltered daughter of Louis B. Mayer, the doughty general manager of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, who for years was widely regarded as Hollywood's king.
        Then she became the first wife of David O. Selznick, a son of the movie-industry pioneer Lewis J. Selznick, whose film concern eventually fell on bad times. David Selznick went on to produce ''Gone With the Wind'' and other major films.
        After Irene and David Selznick separated in 1945, Mrs. Selznick, then 38, moved East to begin her theater career. Other notable plays she brought to the stage included ''Bell, Book and Candle'' (1950), ''The Chalk Garden'' (1955) and ''The Complaisant Lover'' (1961).
        'I'd Like to Grow Very Old'
        ''With perseverance I've gotten this far,'' she wrote in her memoirs when she was in her 70's, long after withdrawing from Broadway. ''Now, with a little more luck, I'd like to grow very old as slowly as possible.''
        Mrs. Selznick showed persistence -in trying to overcome a stutter - even as a wiry, undersized girl in Massachusetts, where her father was a movie-theater operator.
        In time, Mayer founded a movie-making company that bore his name. Its first film was ''Virtuous Wives'' in 1918. He moved his family to Hollywood while Irene was still a schoolgirl, determined that the Mayers would live relatively simply and not ''go Hollywood.''
        But inevitably their lives did take on the flavor of the hectic atmosphere of the film capital in the years after World War I. Mayer had a fistfight with Charlie Chaplin and knocked him flat with one punch, his daughter later recalled. She played tennis with the young Agnes de Mille, a chum at the private Hollywood School for Girls.
        Life as Hollywood Royalty
        In 1924, Mayer's film company merged with two other concerns to become M-G-M, and he began his quarter-century as that studio's general manager, building it in the 1930's into the most respected in Hollywood - and himself into the film capital's uncrowned sovereign during its golden age.
        Even in the 1920's, his influence was awesome. Irene was with him in a Berlin screening room when Greta Garbo, then unknown, came on the screen. Struck by her emotive eyes, Mayer said simply, ''I can make a star out of her.'' He did, and she starred in 24 M-G-M films.
        As a teen-ager, Irene could gauge a new film's prospects by the reaction of her father and other film executives after the first screening.
        ''When the picture looked great,'' she wrote in her memoirs, ''there would be hand-shaking, back-slapping, and arms around shoulders. They would say, 'See you in the morning, boys.' '' If Mayer did not like a film, though, he walked away quickly and silently.
        Encounter With David Selznick
        It was at a Hollywood ball that Irene Mayer met Mr. Selznick, who was then working for M-G-M. They did not hit it off immediately. In fact, she told him he was getting drunk. He replied, ''Not drunk enough.''
        When they next met, he tried to steal a kiss. ''His eagerness was appealing,'' Mrs. Selznick confessed in her memoirs. Their relationship progressed on the tennis court and in nightclubs.
        The wedding took place in the Mayers' house one month after her 20th birthday, in 1930. The men were in white tie. The police escorted the bride and groom as they drove off on their honeymoon. When the bridal couple arrived in London, Laurence Olivier came to call. Leland Hayward sent roses along the way.
        The next year, Mr. Selznick, after working briefly for Paramount, became vice president in charge of production at RKO, which was then what Mrs. Selznick later called ''the most minor of the major studios.''
        'Sick of Phony Films'
        ''My contribution'' to Mr. Selznick's movie making ''was slender,'' she wrote in her memoirs. ''I was sick of the phony films about Hollywood and longed to see one with some reality. He promised me someday he'd make a proper one.'' It turned out to be the 1937 version of ''A Star Is Born,'' which starred Janet Gaynor as a rising actress and Fredric March as her husband.
        In 1933, Mr. Selznick went back to M-G-M to head his own autonomous film-making unit. His first successful M-G-M film that year, ''Dinner at Eight,'' was made in three and a half weeks. Others followed, and in 1936 he broke away and founded his own film company, Selznick International Pictures.
        He and Mrs. Selznick watched one morning while the company's name was painted on the studio building. ''There it was,'' Mrs. Selznick wrote, ''his heart's desire, and in his favorite typeface.''
        ''The scene was corny,'' she went on, ''but I thought it was all wonderful and said so with the tears pouring down. I was a child of Hollywood. To me, this was history.''
        More history came with the enormous success of ''Gone With the Wind,'' which appeared in 1939. But the Selznicks proved less successful in their marriage. In the years that followed, Mrs. Selznick underwent psychoanalysis, and in 1945, according to her memoirs, she said to her analyst, ''My marriage is over.'' She told her husband, ''I must leave you while I love you.'' They were divorced in 1948.
        Mr. Selznick, who died in 1965 at the age of 63, had previously suffered a nervous breakdown. He had become prone to mood swings and, Mrs. Selznick wrote, ''profligate in time and money.''
        ''It was clearly downhill from here,'' she wrote, ''and I wanted to quit while we were ahead.''
        Leaving for Broadway
        After their separation, Mrs. Selznick's decision to leave Hollywood for Broadway was a complex process.
        ''I begged myself not to do it,'' she recalled in an interview years later. ''But I kept thinking about it. Then suddenly I became aware of the extent of my interest in the theater.''
        Appraising her Broadway career, a New York Times critic, Mel Gussow, once said, ''When she produced 'Streetcar' and other plays, she worked hand in glove with the playwright in insuring that the work was seen absolutely to its best advantage.''
        Nonetheless, the critic Molly Haskell, reviewing Mrs. Selznick's memoirs in The New York Times Book Review, suggested that ''hopes of tapping some of that Hollywood money'' for the mounting of ''Streetcar'' had led Audrey Wood, the agent for the playwright, Tennessee Williams, to turn to Mrs. Selznick.
        Mrs. Selznick wrote in her memoirs, however, that the agent offered her the play because she had been impressed with an earlier Irene Selznick production, ''Heartsong,'' even though it had closed out of town.
        Mrs. Selznick is survived by two sons, Lewis Jeffrey Selznick of Miami and Daniel M. Selznick of Manhattan.
      