
       Paul Seabury, a professor of political science who was an authority on American foreign policy and the author or co-author of a dozen books, died Wednesday at Doctors Hospital in Pinole, Calif. He was 67 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        Paul Seabury, a professor of political science who was an authority on American foreign policy and the author or co-author of a dozen books, died Wednesday at Doctors Hospital in Pinole, Calif. He was 67 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        His wife, the former Marie-Anne Phelps, said he died of renal failure.
        Dr. Seabury, whose specialty was research on national security, was affiliated with the University of California for 37 years, first as an assistant professor and since 1967 as a full professor of political science at Berkeley.
        He served briefly as assistant dean and as faculty chairman of the College of Letters and Science and as provost of the university campus at Santa Cruz.
        Dr. Seabury was born in Hempstead, L.I., and was a 1946 graduate of Swarthmore College. He was an instructor at Columbia University from 1947 until he was awarded a doctorate in government by its School of International Affairs in 1953. He later moved to California.
        State Department Consultant
        From 1963 to 1970 he was a consultant to the State Department. In 1967 he was appointed to the Board of Foreign Scholarships by President Lyndon B. Johnson. He also served on President Ronald Reagan's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
        He was also a member of many organizations, including the national executive committee of Americans for Democratic Action, from which he resigned in 1968 to protest its endorsement of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy, Democrat of Minnesota, for President.
        Dr. Seabury was a prolific writer. His books include, ''The Balance of Power,'' ''The Rise and Decline of the Cold War,'' and ''The Great Detente Disaster: Oil and the Decline of American Foreign Policy,'' written with Edward Friedland and Aaron Wildavsky. His book ''Power, Freedom and Diplomacy: The Foreign Policy of the United States,'' published in 1963 by Random House, was awarded the Bancroft Prize by Columbia University.
        His most recent books include ''The Grenada Papers,'' and ''War: Ends and Means,'' which he wrote with Dr. Angelo Codevilla and was published by Basic Books in 1989.
        In 1972, he protested a move by the Federal Government to force Berkeley to put more women and members of minorities on its faculty. He called it a threat to academic freedom and to the independence of universities.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, David, of Richmond, Calif., and John, of Berkeley; a sister, Cora Andrews, of Pasadena; and one granddaughter.
      