
       William H. Mortensen, a college dropout who became a millionaire philanthropist, a State Senator, the Mayor of Hartford, a candidate for governor and the director of Connecticut's most important center for the performing arts, died on Saturday at his summer home in Old Saybrook. He was 87 years old and lived in Stuart,
        William H. Mortensen, a college dropout who became a millionaire philanthropist, a State Senator, the Mayor of Hartford, a candidate for governor and the director of Connecticut's most important center for the performing arts, died on Saturday at his summer home in Old Saybrook. He was 87 years old and lived in Stuart, Fla.
        The son of emigres from Denmark, Mr. Mortensen, a popular and gregarious Republican, served only one term as State Senator, from 1941 to 1943, and one term as Mayor of Hartford, from 1943 to 1945. He was forced by heart trouble to withdraw from the 1950 gubernatorial race.
        But he led a bipartisan movement that succeeded in 1947 in establishing a strong city manager form of government in Hartford, investing power in a professional city manager and an elected City Council.
        The system, which did away with patronage-ridden commissions that ran city agencies and installed single department heads named by the city manager, is in place today.
        Development Commission Head
        For nearly four decades, Mr. Mortensen helped shape Connecticut's cultural life as managing director of Horace Bushnell Memorial Hall in Hartford, a center for concerts, ballet, theater and other artistic events.
        As chairman of the State Development Commission in the 1950's, he helped establish regional planning that promoted economic development, mapped highway routes and improved harbors. He also served on the State Commission for Higher Education.
        William Henry Mortensen was born in Hartford on July 15, 1903, and attended public schools in Hartford and Antioch College in Philadelphia. He dropped out and went home to take an insurance job in 1923. A few years later, his life took an unusual turn.
        The granddaughter of Horace Bushnell, a Hartford Congregational minister and a friend of Mark Twain, decided to build an auditorium as a memorial to him and asked Mr. Mortensen, a former Hartford High School student of her husband, to go around the country researching such halls.
        Library Named for Him
        He was put in charge of construction, and when the hall was completed in 1929, he was named managing director, a post he held until his retirement in 1968. He received two honorary doctorates: in fine arts from the University of Hartford in 1956 and in law from Trinity College in 1984.
        Mr. Mortensen gave $250,000 to the University of Hartford in 1969 for its central reference library, which was named for him.
        Mr. Mortensen's first wife, the former Alice Carroll, died in 1983.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Trice Carter; a stepson, Robert Carter of West Hartford; two step-grandchildren, and one step-great-grandchild. The funeral will be at 11 A.M. tomorrow at the First Church of Christ Congregational in West Hartford.
      