
       Dr. Dane G. Prugh, a psychiatrist who studied the effects of illness and hospitalization on children, died Saturday at the Mount San Antonio Gardens retirement community in Claremont, Calif., where he lived. He was 72 years old. His family said he died of kidney failure.
        Dr. Dane G. Prugh, a psychiatrist who studied the effects of illness and hospitalization on children, died Saturday at the Mount San Antonio Gardens retirement community in Claremont, Calif., where he lived. He was 72 years old. His family said he died of kidney failure.
        Dr. Prugh (pronounced pru), who promoted close ties between the fields of pediatrics and child psychiatry, conducted the first controlled study of children's reactions to illness and hospitalization in the late 1940's when he was associated with Children's Hospital in Boston.
        Parents were allowed to visit hospitalized children daily instead of weekly, as had been the custom. Dr. Prugh found that the children had less fear of doctors, and later recovered more easily, when they were prepared for treatment by seeing their parents once a day and by acting out their fear and anger in special in-hospital nurseries.
        Dr. Prugh was also active in social matters affecting the scientific community. In the 1960's he led a fight to expose the existence of a blacklist maintained by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare to screen scientists nominated as consultants to Federal agencies.
        The blacklist, a holdover from Congressional efforts in the 1950's to uncover alleged Communist influence in government, was revoked. Dr. Prugh, who was president of the American Orthopsychiatric Association at the time, later served on a task force of President Jimmy Carter's Commission on Mental Health.
        Dr. Prugh, a native of Philadelphia, was a graduate of Miami University in Ohio and received his medical degree from Harvard. He served in the Army Medical Corps in World War II.
        He is survived by a daughter, Joan, of Storrs, Conn.; a son, Wallace, of Fort Collins, Colo.; a brother, David, of Cleveland; a sister, Sarah Jane Nagel of Jupiter, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      