
        Ugo Tognazzi, a onetime bookkeeper who became one of Italy's leading comic actors and achieved international fame in the film "La Cage aux Folles," died on Saturday. He was 68 years old.
        The Italian news agency ANSA said Mr. Tognazzi suffered a cerebral hemorrhage on Saturday morning and died late that night.
        Mr. Tognazzi, who first appeared in films in the 1950's, played supporting roles and comic and dramatic leads with equal ability.  Honored at Cannes
        In 1981 he won the award for best actor at the Cannes International Film Festival for his role in Bernardo Bertolucci's "Tragedia di un Uomo Ridicolo" ("The Tragedy of a Ridiculous Man").
        He was best known in the United States for his role as a homosexual cabaret owner in the 1979 film "La Cage aux Folles," directed by Edouardo Molinaro. He also appeared in 1980 and 1985 sequels to the movie.
        Mr. Tognazzi was born on March 23, 1922, in Cremona, Italy. Because his father was ill, he was forced to go to work at the age of 15 as a bookkeeper at a salami factory. But he also acted on the amateur stage.
        In 1950 he made his first film, "I Caddetti di Guascogna" ("The Cadets of Guascogna"). He followed that performance with a series of films that made him a popular character actor. A Success in Satire
        In the 1960's, Mr. Tognazzi acted in satirical films including Luciano Salce's "Federale" ("The Fascist"), which is still considered one of Mr. Tognazzi's greatest films.
        After his success in "Il Federale" and Dino Risi's "Marcia su Roma" ("The March on Rome"), Mr. Tognazzi met Marco Ferreri, the director who gave him some of his greatest roles. Together they made films that included "Una Storia Moderna: L'Ape Regina" ("The Conjugal Bed") in 1963, "La Donna Scimmia" ("The Ape Woman") in 1964, "Marcia Nuziale" ("Wedding March") in 1966, "L'Udienza" ("The Audience") in 1971 and "La Grande Bouffe" in 1973.
        Mr. Tognazzi also appeared in Roger Vadim's film "Barbarella," with Jane Fonda.
        He is survived by his wife, Franca Bettoia, and four children.
      