
       The drummer and band leader Art Blakey, one of the most influential figures in jazz for the last 40 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The drummer and band leader Art Blakey, one of the most influential figures in jazz for the last 40 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lung cancer, said a hospital spokeswoman, Barbara Cron.
        Mr. Blakey, who was also known as Abdullah Ibn Buhaina and was until recently leading his band, the Jazz Messengers, played with a mixture of powerful abandon and precise control. An extraordinary drummer, he would turn each piece into an epic voyage, starting out calmly, slowly packing the tune with texture after texture, always controlling the dynamics until a thunderous barrage released the tension. Mr. Blakey shaped each performance by manipulating the texture for his soloists as well; a result was a set of performances that always mixed the excitement of improvisation with a real understanding of the personalities and capabilities of the musicians involved.
        ''Art was an original,'' said the drummer Max Roach. ''He's the only drummer whose time I recognize immediately. And his signature style was amazing; we used to call him 'Thunder.' When I first met him on 52d Street in 1944, he already had the polyrhythmic thing down. Art was the perhaps the best at maintaining independence with all four limbs. He was doing it before anybody was. And he was a great man, which influenced everybody around him.''
        A One-Man University
        While Mr. Blakey was a gifted and important drummer, his contributions to American music as a band leader and talent scout are equally important. Mr. Blakey, like no other band leader for the last 40 years, had acted as a one-man university for young musicians. A partial list of the musicians he hired resembles a history of jazz from the 1950's to the present. They included the trumpeters Kenny Dorham, Clifford Brown, Bill Hardman, Lee Morgan, Freddie Hubbard, Woody Shaw, Wynton Marsalis, Wallace Roney and Terence Blanchard; the saxophonists Lou Donaldson, Jackie McLean, Hank Mobley, Johnny Griffin, Wayne Shorter, Gary Bartz, Bobby Watson, Branford Marsalis, Donald Harrison, Kenny Garrett and Javon Jackson, and the pianists Horace Silver, Bobby Timmons, Cedar Walton, John Hicks, James Williams, Mulgrew Miller and Bennie Green.
        ''It's like the door is closed on a generation of musicians that were developed through Art's band,'' said Mr. McLean, who first played with Mr. Blakey in the early 1950's. ''Even when I was with Miles Davis, Art was the strength of the band. That was the first band I was in, and ever since them I've been trying to lead my band the way he has his.''
        The trumpeter Wynton Marsalis, who joined the band as a 17-year-old in 1979, said: ''Art was important to me because he always displayed the maximum belief in integrity and quality. Even more important, he represents the most mature man our society can develop because he was making life easier for everyone else. He provided the context for musicians to play and develop. And since we weren't on his level, he'd subject himself to us so we'd learn. First he just let the musicians play, but then he'd offer subtle advice, but he'd never discourage you: it was always positive reinforcement. He knew that there's a price to be paid to develop in this music, and he did his best to help us.''
        Leaving His Stamp
        As a band leader, Mr. Blakey had a powerful influence on the way modern jazz is played, codifiying the innovations of the be-bop movement and integrating the drums into small-group arrangements that became the leading examples of what was called hard bop. Relying on some of the best arrangers and composers of his time, Mr. Blakey managed to stamp his own identity on his work from his first notable band in 1955 to his last. Tough and based in blues, his bands' arrangments were full of dynamic change and always swung hard. As a result, Mr. Blakey's bands were always popular, and from the 50's on Mr. Blakey was one of jazz's most important figures commercially.
        ''He came up with new way to interpret the blues and another way of building the ensemble, where the drums were more orchestrated,'' Mr. Marsalis said. ''That sound is the sound you hear today, particularly with many of the younger musicians. And he had his own particular brand of swing, which makes him important by itself.''
        Art Blakey was born in Pittsburgh. By the seventh grade he was playing music regularly, and he quickly realized that drumming was a way out of the grinding industrial work prevalent in the area. He joined Mary Lou Williams's band in New York in 1942 and then played the next two years with Fletcher Henderson's orchestra. In 1944, on the urging of Dizzy Gillespie, he joined the singer Billy Eckstine's band, which was a haven for be-bop modernists.
        ''The first time I heard Art, I said, 'Oh, man, let's get that guy,' '' Mr. Gillespie recalled. ''He had the knack of knowing when to play loud or soft, and when he played the whole band would lift right off the bandstand. He'd shout like somebody in a sanctified church. He was truly one of our greats.'' In the late 1940's, Mr. Blakey brought together a 17-piece band called the Jazz Messengers - a name he would keep for his band throughout his career - and traveled to Africa. When he returned, he continued a series of recordings and performances with Thelonious Monk and Miles Davis that again helped to define modern jazz. In 1955, Mr. Blakey joined forces with Horace Silver, Hank Mobley and Kenny Dorham under the name Jazz Messengers, and he performed and recorded with that group until the late 1980's.
        An important element in Mr. Blakey's success was the relationship he had with the Blue Note record label; between 1955 and 1961 he recorded a series of brilliant records that document the succession of his bands. Starting with ''The Jazz Messengers at the Cafe Bohemia,'' recorded in 1955 with Kenny Dorham and Hank Mobley, the label released about 30 albums, including some made by his most famous band, featuring Freddie Hubbard on trumpet, Wayne Shorter on saxophone, Curtis Fuller on trombone, Cedar Walton on piano and Jymie Merritt on bass.
        A Renaissance in the 80's
        In the 1980's, Mr. Blakey underwent a renaissance. His bands constantly turned out some of the best young musicians working. Not only did Mr. Marsalis and his brother, Branford, herald a new age of jazz, but Mr. Blanchard and Mr. Harrison went on to form their own bands; the trumpeter Wallace Roney spent several years with Mr. Blakey, as did the pianists Mulgrew Miller, Bennie Green and Jeff Keezer. For many young musicians, Mr. Blakey's band was a lifeline back to an era of jazz verities. In the late 1970's and early 1980's, it was one of the few places a young musician could apprentice with a veteran. ''When jazz was in danger of dying out, there was still a scene,'' said the young drummer Cindy Blackman. ''Art kept it going.''
        Mr. Mclean said: ''I loved him dearly as a man. Of all the bands I played with - and I got great deal from Charles Mingus and Miles Davis - he taught me the most. Not just how to be a musician, but about being a man and keeping a sense of responsibility.''
        Ms. Blackman added: ''He adopted me like his daughter. He taught me a lot of things about drummers and music. But as important, he helped me when I was just starting out and not working too often. He'd ask me to sit in when he was playing, he helped me if I needed money. His influence on all us young musicians is incalculable.''
        Mr. Blakey is survived by four sons, Takashi Buhaina and Kenji Buhaina, both of Manhattan, Gamal Buhaina of Waitsfield, Vt., and Akira Buhaina of Quebec, and four daughters, Gwendolyn Blakey and Evelyn Blakey, both of Manhattan, Jackie Blakey of Florida, and Sakeena Buhaina of San Jose, Calif.
      