
        Eve Arden, the caustic comedienne featured in dozens of films as a heroine's wry and wisecracking best friend, a warmhearted but sassy schoolteacher or secretary, died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        The actress said she was born on April 30, 1912, but Ron Lisell, a spokesman for the family, said she was 83. Her death was caused by heart disease, Mr. Lisell said.
        Miss Arden made her Broadway debut in the "Ziegfeld Follies" of 1934, but although she often appeared in plays in New York and on the road, she was chiefly a Hollywood actress. She was best known as the sardonic but likable English teacher in the radio and television series "Our Miss Brooks," which ran from 1948 until 1957. The series earned her an Emmy award as best actress for 1953.
        The tall and languid Miss Brooks, noted for her exquisite comic timing and a knack for making the most of a throwaway line, received featured billing in more than 100 movies, including "Stage Door," "The Marx Brothers at the Circus," "No, No, Nanette," "Bedtime Story," "Cover Girl," "Anatomy of a Murder" and "The Dark at the Top of the Stairs." In 1945 she received an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress for her performance in "Mildred Pierce."
        The actress, whose original name was Eunice Quedens, was born in Mill Valley, Calif., near San Francisco. She was reared by her divorced mother and an aunt. Both encouraged her to act in school plays. At 16, she said, "I was dumped by my mother and aunt at the Henry Duffy office in San Francisco and told to get a job acting, which I did."
        She joined the Duffy stock company, which performed in San Francisco and Los Angeles, and she later switched to the Bandbox Repertory Theater, which toured the "citrus circuit" in Southern California.
        Miss Arden was a seasoned 21-year-old actress when she got a job in "Low and Behold," a forerunner of the "New Faces" revues produced by Leonard Sillman. The producer Lee Shubert saw a performance at the Pasadena Playhouse and offered Miss Arden a part as a showgirl in the 1934 "Ziegfeld Follies" on Broadway. And he told her to shed her real name.
        Eunice Quedens did so by studying the labels of cosmetic jars on her dressing table and, she said, "stole my first name from Evening in Paris and the second from Elizabeth Arden."
        Eve Arden won her first theatrical accolade in 1935 when she was featured with Jimmy Savo in "Parade."The New York Times drama critic Brooks Atkinson wrote: "Count on the credit side Eve Arden's lorgnette humor which turns a song entitled 'Send for the Militia' into highly amusing satire." That and other reviews helped to win Miss Arden a featured role in the 1936 "Ziegfeld Follies." As Fannie Brice's understudy, she starred in several performances. Success, With the Help of a Cat
        Miss Arden made her film debut in a 1937 grade-B melodrama called "Oh, Doctor," in which she disastrously played a gun moll. But her big break came that same year when the director Gregory La Cava cast her in what was to have been a small role in "Stage Door," starring Katharine Hepburn and Ginger Rogers.
        The actress built up her supposedly minor role with the aid of a slothful cat named Henry, which hung around the set. Having noticed that the sluggish Henry hardly ever moved, Miss Arden called Mr. La Cava's attention to the fact that the cat liked to sleep draped over her shoulders. The director was amused, and he included many shots of Miss Arden wearing the live cat as a fur piece. She was long remembered as the "girl with the cat."
        In three years Miss Arden appeared in more than 20 films, becoming typecast in roles characterized by brittle, caustic humor. Trying to get away from that stereotype, she returned to Broadway and won praise for her featured roles in the Kern-Hammerstein musical "Very Warm for May" in 1939, the revue "Two for the Show" in 1940 and Cole Porter's "Let's Face It" in 1941, in which she appeared with Danny Kaye.
        Miss Arden nearly stole the 1944 war movie "The Doughgirls" from three stars by enlivening her role as a tough-talking Russian guerrilla, punctuating her flines in ractured English lines with funny and risque gestures with her sniper's rifle.
        Other featured roles followed, most of them putting Miss Arden back in what she considered the rut of the coldly tart-tongued and vitriolic cynic. It mattered not, she said, that audiences always responded to her with laughter; she did not like seeing herself in those roles, which were carried over into radio shows in which she starred with Jack Haley and Jack Carson.
        "I just don't like that dame," she said in 1952. "She is hard-boiled, unsentimental and not me."
        With "Our Miss Brooks," Miss Arden was able to alter her image, keeping the snappy, sardonic lines but giving the schoolteacher character a warmly affectionate and self-deprecating side.
        That television series went off the air in 1957, and Miss Arden appeared in only an occasional film until 1967, when she began a two-season run co- starring with the comedienne Kaye Ballard in the NBC television show "The Mothers-in-Law." She also appeared as a school principal in the films "Grease" in 1978 and "Grease II" in 1982, and in "Under the Rainbow" in 1981.
        Miss Arden's second husband, Brooks West, an actor, died in 1984.
        Survivors include two daughters, Liza and Constance, and two sons, Douglas and Duncan.
        Correction:  November 17, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Tuesday about the actress Eve Arden misstated the date of her film debut. It was in 1929, when she appeared under her original name, Eunice Quedens, in "The Song of Love"; it was not in 1937.
      