
        Dr. John W. Wingate, professor emeritus and former chairman of the retailing department at City College, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        He died of congestive heart faiure, his daughter, Elaine Conway, said.
        Dr. Wingate taught retailing, first at New York University and later at the City College School of Business, now Baruch, for 45 years until he retired in 1969. He wrote several books on retailing and marketing and he was the founder and longtime editor of the New York University Journal of Retailing.
        In a field widely perceived as resistant to change, he prodded retailers toward night shopping hours, self-service and cooperation with consumer watchdog agencies.  Advocated Self-Service
        In 1939, he advised owners to stay open late two or three times a week to accommodate customers' desire for more shopping convenience. It was more than two decades later that most big-city stores followed the advice.
        In World War II, Dr. Wingate counseled retailers to move toward self-service, not primarily because of a shortage of sales help but because "customers want merchandise accessible to them."
        He was among the early advocates of close cooperation between retailers and consumer-interest groups. He also urged stores to use simpler and more informative labeling on goods, to give more specific data in advertising and to provide sales personnel with accurate knowledge of merchandise.
        Dr. Wingate was born to missionary parents in Talas, Turkey. He graduated from Carleton Cllege and received master's and doctoral degrees from N.Y.U., whose faculty he joined in 1924. He served briefly as head of the retailing department at Washington University in St. Louis before being named to his City College post in 1946.
        His wife, the former Isabel Barnum, died in 1987. Besides his daughter, who lives in Bronxville, N.Y., he is survived by a son, John, of Mt. Kisco, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      