
        Fred Shero, who coached the Philadelphia Flyers to two Stanley Cup championships in the mid-1970's and then brought the Rangers to the brink of victory in 1979, the first of his two seasons in New York, died yesterday at Cooper Hospital in Camden, N.J.
        Mr. Shero, who was 65 years old and had rejoined the Flyers as a special assistant last season, had been suffering from cancer, a team spokesman said.
        In his seven seasons as the Flyers' head coach, from 1971-78, Mr. Shero gained a reputation as an innovator. Although his tactics on and off the ice sometimes raised eyebrows among hockey traditionalists, there was ample evidence that they worked. Mr. Shero took over the Flyers four years after they had joined the National Hockey League as one of six expansion teams. By the end of his third season, he and his players were sipping champagne out of the Stanley Cup.. Dreaming Ways to Win
        The upset victory over the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final in 1974 was the first N.H.L. championship ever won by an expansion team, and lest anyone put it down as a fluke, the Flyers did it again in 1975 and made it to the final in 1976.
        His players called him Freddie the Fog, but not disparagingly. It was just that Mr. Shero's mind often seemed to be somewhere else, apparently dreaming up new ways to win.
        In a game that had long relied on the sheer skill and finesse of its stars, Mr. Shero stressed teamwork, teaching his players to skate in complex interwoven patterns that tended to confuse their opponents, and, initially at least, the Flyers themselves. He shocked the hockey world by persuading most of his players to live in the Philadelphia area year-round so they could be available for off-season practice sessions, then stunned his players by abandoning the boring drills used by most teams and adopting challenging routines they actually found fun. First to Hire Assistant
        "Athletes don't like to think," Mr. Shero once said. "You use distractions and surprise to hold their interest."
        If their interest threatened to flag, Mr. Shero was always ready with an aphorism to perk them up. "Always behave like a duck," he might tell them. "Keep calm and unruffled on the surface, but paddle like the devil underneath."
        In addition to stressing complicated skating patterns, Mr. Shero broke other hockey traditions. He was the first N.H.L. coach to hire a full-time assistant. Partly, perhaps, because his teams lacked dominating stars, Mr. Shero was also credited with being one of the first coaches to develop the muscle game, encouraging his players to make up in slam what they lacked in finesse. The Broad Street Bullies
        The approach was not univerally applauded. Fans and critics alike called his Stanley Cup teams the Broad Street Bullies. Despite the criticism, the approach has been widedly copied.
        Mr. Shero's innovations were not limited to his coaching techniques and team tactics. He was, for example, one of the first N.H.L. coaches to go to the Soviet Union to study the great national teams there, and he was believed to have been the first hockey coach to employ an agent to negotiate his contracts, a development that hardly endeared him to the hockey establishment.
        Even so, his winning ways with the Flyers won respect outside of Philadelphia, and when he resigned as the Flyers' coach in 1978 after compiling a seven-season record of 308-151-95, Sonny Werblin, the head of Madison Square Garden Corporation, was soon on the phone. A Tactical Mistake
        "He was the most successful coach in the East," Mr. Werblin recalled yesterday. "We needed a coach and he was available."
        When he took over the Rangers, Mr. Shero, who had been a defenseman on the 1950 Ranger team that almost won the Stanley Cup and seemed to still feel its loss, made the tactical mistake of all but promising to bring the cup back within three seasons.
        Under Mr. Shero, the Rangers made a game attempt, but by the fall of 1980 with the team on a downswing and no cup in sight, fans were shouting, "Goodbye, Freddie." In November he stepped down, leaving a Ranger record of 82-74-24.
        Mr. Shero, who lived in Cherry Hill, N.J., is survived by his wife, Mariette, and two sons.
      