
        Balcomb Greene, a painter known for his iconoclastic attitude toward the art world, died Monday at his home at Montauk Point, L.I. He was 86 years old.
        His wife, Terryn, said he had been in poor health for two years.
        A pure, geometric abstractionist in the 1930's, Mr. Greene shifted radically in 1947 -- just as Abstract Expressionism was taking hold -- to a figurative style, a kind of fragmented reality in which ambiguous images were further obscured by bright light and deep shadows. Bucking succeeding trends in the art world, he stayed with a romantic, dreamlike mode. The ocean was a major element in his later work.
        In 1961, the Whitney Museum of American Art gave him a retrospective, and his work is in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art. A mural he painted in the 1930's under the aegis of the Works Progress Administration for a housing project in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn is currently on view at the Brooklyn Museum. A show of the work of Mr. Greene and his first wife, Gertrude Greene, who died in 1956, is to open on Nov. 27 at the Katharina Rich Perlow Gallery, 560 Broadway, in SoHo. From Niagara Falls to Paris
        Mr. Greene was born in Niagara Falls, N.Y., on May 22, 1904, the son of a peripatetic Methodist minister. He grew up in small towns in Iowa, South Dakota and Colorado. Trained in philosophy at Syracuse University and in psychology at the University of Vienna, he also took graduate courses in English at Columbia University. From 1928 to 1931, he taught English at Dartmouth College.
        At the age of 27, influenced by his wife, the former Gertrude Glass, a sculptor and painter whom he had married in 1926, he decided to become an artist. After a brief stint in Paris, he had his first show at the Dartmouth College Art Gallery in 1931. He was a founder of the group known as American Abstract Artists in 1936.
        In 1943, Mr. Greene received a master of arts degree in art history from New York University and a teaching post at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he taught esthetics, art history and philosophy from 1942 to 1947. In the mid-1940's, about the time he built his house and studio at Montauk, he broke with the abstractionists and ventured into representational art.
        Mr. Greene is survived by his wife.
      