
        Harwell Hamilton Harris, an architect who helped create a distinctly American architectural style for homes, died Sunday at his home in Raleigh, N.C. He was 87 years old.
        He died of cancer, said Lisa Germany, his biographer.
        Ms. Germany said Mr. Harris's particular contribution to American architecture was his melding of "the strict ideas of efficiency and modernism, that he learned from the Austrian architect Richard J. Neutra, with the warmth and natural organic ideas of Frank Lloyd Wright."
        Ms. Germany also said that when Mr. Harris met Mr. Wright for the first time, in the early 1940's, Mr. Wright said: "Of course I know Harwell Hamilton Harris. You're a great artist, and when your hair is as gray as mine you'll be a great architect."
        In 1941, Mr. Harris designed a home for Weston Havens of Berkeley, Calif. The house still stands, overlooking San Francisco and the Golden Gate Bridge. In 1956 the American Institute of Architects voted it one of America's most important buildings.  Reworked a Sullivan Bank
        Although Mr. Harris specialized in residential design, one of his major undertakings was the remodeling in 1958 of the Security Bank and Trust Company building in Owatonna, Minn. A single room with a 42-foot ceiling and two-ton chandeliers, the building is considered a notable piece of American architecture. It had originally been designed in 1908 by Louis Sullivan.
        Mr. Harris was also the designer of the complex called the Motel on the Mountain near Suffern, N.Y.
        He had an additional career as an educator. At the time of his death, he was a professor emeritus at North Carolina State University. He had been a faculty member there from 1962 to the mid-1970's. From 1951 to 1955 he was dean of the University of Texas's School of Architecture in Austin. He also taught at Columbia and Yale Universities and the Universities of Minnesota and Southern California.
        Mr. Harris's wife, Jean Murray Bangs, an architectural historian, died four years ago. There are no immediate survivors.
      