
        Ian Woodner, a New York builder and developer who was an important collector of Old Master drawings and other works of art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        He appeared to have died of a heart attack, Mr. Woodner's family said.
        An architect and an artist by training, Mr. Woodner established himself in real-estate development and management before beginning to collect art in the early 1950's. His collection of drawings included works by Raphael, Tiepolo, Cellini, Correggio, Durer, Holbein, Goya and Rembrandt and has had major showings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Royal Academy in London, the Prado and other galleries.
        In 1945 Mr. Woodner founded the Jonathan Woodner Company, which has built residential and commercial properties in New York, Washington and Atlanta over nearly the last half century. The company was named for Mr. Woodner's infant son, who later joined the business along with his sisters, Dian and Andrea. Jonathan Woodner died in an airplane crash in Maryland in 1988. Central Park Zoo
        Mr. Woodner was born in New York to a Polish immigrant family that soon afterward moved to Minneapolis, where he was raised. He received a bachelor's degree in architecture from the Univerity of Minnesota and a master's from Harvard. He was awarded a traveling fellowship that sent him to Europe and the Middle East and finally to the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris, where he won nine medals during his postgraduate work.
        He returned to settle in New York, helping to design the Central Park Zoo and various buildings at the 1939 World's Fair for Robert Moses, the Parks Commissioner and director of the fair.
        Mr. Woodner began building houses in Wilmington, Del., and later concentrated on Washington and the New York metropolitan region, where his company erected housing complexes in Manhattan, Flushing, Queens and Yonkers.
        In 1962, Mr. Woodner was convicted of income-tax evasion and sentenced to two and a half years in Federal prison and fined $20,000. The case arose from an investigation by the Senate Banking Committee into irregularities in the dealings of the Federal Housing Administration.
        Records available last night did not indicate whether the sentence was served, and his family declined to discuss the matter.  'See These Things as an Artist'
        Mr. Woodner's interest in art collecting stemmed from his own work over the years in watercolors and pastels, which has been exhibited in New York, Munich and Jerusalem.
        His collection of drawings includes works from the 14th through the 20th century and includes extremely rare drawings by Botticelli and Cellini. In 1959 he bought Cellini's "The Satyr" for $18,000; its worth is now in the millions. Six years ago he paid $4.5 million for a page on which Giorgio Vasari, the 16th-century Italian painter had arranged 10 drawings from his own collection.
        "I'm an artist and I see these things as an artist, as Vasari did," he said last spring when the Woodner collection was shown at the Metropolitan. A collector requires only two basic qualities, he said, taste and boldness: "The ability to see a good work and the willingness to buy it on his own judgment alone."
        A family foundation, the Ian Woodner Family Collection, supports exhibitions, museum education programs and university art and architecture scholarships. Mr. Woodner also endowed a professorship of architecture at Harvard and a curatorship in drawings at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard.
        He is survived by his daughters, Dian, of Manhattan and Andrea, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      