
        Harry M. Caudill, a Kentucky lawyer, professor and author whose eloquent description of life in poverty-ridden Appalachia inspired Federal relief efforts beginning in the 1960's, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound yesterday at the Appalachian Regional Hospital in Whitesburg, Ky. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Caudill, who had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, shot himself in the head with a .38-caliber handgun at his home in the Cumberland Mountains near Whitesburg, said Pat Gish, an owner of The Mountain Eagle, a weekly newspaper to which Mr. Caudill frequently contributed.
        Mrs. Gish said that in accordance with Mr. Caudill's wishes in a living will, no extraordinary life-saving measures were taken before his death.
        In 1963 Mr. Caudill's first book, "Night Comes to the Cumberlands," focused nationwide attention on the plight of Appalachia's residents. President John F. Kennedy appointed a commission to investigate conditions in the region and his successor, Lyndon B. Johnson, made Appalachia a keystone of his War on Poverty.
        In the succeeding quarter-century, more than $15 billion in aid was spent in the impoverished mountain region covering parts of 13 states. But Mr. Caudill and others who continued to study the region concluded in 1986 that the forecast was still bleak and that only marginal improvement had been made in the lives of millions of rural residents of Appalachia. Maverick Legislator
        Mr. Caudill, who was born in the Whitesburg area, was a descendant of the earliest settlers who arrived a century and a half ago to scratch out a living on farms and in coal mines. He went to Whitesburg High School and, after serving in the Army in World War II and being wounded in combat in Italy, graduated from the University of Kentucky with a law degree in 1948.
        He practiced law for nearly three decades and served three terms in the Kentucky House of Representatives, where he was a maverick legislator who fought, largely unsuccessfully, to end the state's many political fiefdoms at the county level.
        A strenuous orator who liked to quote in a sonorous mountain drawl from the Bible, Shakespeare, Tennyson and Dickens, he was principally concerned with improving public education, conserving land and resources and reforming the judiciary. He co-sponsored a 1954 law that set minimum support levels for public schools and imposed a sales tax to pay the cost.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Caudill became chairman of the Congress for Appalachian Development, a coalition seeking to strengthen self-government in the region. He lobbied extensively in Washington and lectured around the country to draw attention to Appalachia's problems and what he saw as its promise. Compiled Own Text
        In 1977 he gave up practicing the law to become Professor of Appalachian Studies at the University of Kentucky. Having no suitable textbook on the region, he compiled his own. With his wife, Anne, as his secretary, he wrote articles that were published in The Atlantic Monthly, Reader's Digest, The Nation and Audubon Magazine, among other journals.
        He wrote nine books after "Night Comes to the Cumberlands." Most of his writing dealt with problems like the ravages of surface mining, unemployment caused by automation, the inadequacies of welfare programs and the need for development of electric power to rebuild Kentucky's industrial base.
        He formally retired from his chair at the university in 1985 but continued to write and lecture on issues involving Appalachia.
        In addition to his wife, the former Anne Frye, he is survived by two sons, James of Louisville and Harry F. Caudill of Lexington, Ky.; a daughter, Diana Grace of New Albany, Ind., and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 1, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary headline in late editions yesterday about an author who described life in Appalachia rendered his name incorrectly. He was Harry M. Caudill, not Henry. The obituary is reprinted today on page 31.
      