
        Lemuel Ricketts Boulware, a former vice president of the General Electric Company who formulated a new approach to union management contract negotiations in the 1950's, died yesterday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 95 years old.
        He was under a doctor's care and died at his home, a spokesman for the company said.
        Mr. Boulware was vice president of employee and public relations at General Electric from 1956 to 1961, when he retired. He had been responsible for employee relations since 1947, a year after the company went through what it considered a disastrous strike,
        He helped develop practices in the company's relations with employees, unions, stockholders, community neighbors and government at all levels through a program intended to inform these groups that General Electric was trying "to do right voluntarily."
        A 'Fair, Firm Offer'
        In a bargaining policy that came to be known as Boulwarism, the company listened closely to union demands, examined the wages and working conditions of competitors, conducted extensive research on all issues and then put forward a "fair, firm offer," with nothing held back for future concessions.
        Although General Electric was unhappy with the term "Boulwarism," calling it a "hostile label," the basic bargaining policy that it embraced became the hallmark of the company's dealing with its organized employees in the 1950's and 1960's.
        Labor's view of the policy was summed up by Paul Jennings, president of the International Union of Electrical Workers. At a convention of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Atlantic City in 1969, he called the policy "telling the workers what they are entitled to and then trying to shove it down their throats."
        After a nationwide strike in 1969 and various court decisions that went against General Electric, the company modified its approach the next year and Boulwarism largely faded from the scene.
        Views on Labor Relations
        Later, in discussing labor relations, Mr. Boulware said labor problems should be "thought out, not fought out." He also said compulsory union membership was "wrong in principle and bad in practice." He opposed third-party intervention in labor negotiations.
        Mr. Boulware was born in Springfield, Ky., and graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1916, where he was captain of the baseball team. After graduation he taught accounting and commercial law at the university. He also taught at the Plymouth Institute night school in Brooklyn and at Florida Atlantic University.
        He served in World War I as an infantry captain, and in World War II he was operations vice chairman of the War Production Board, for which he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Merit and a Navy citation.
        Before Mr. Boulware joined General Electric, he worked for five companies in a number of positions like accountant, purchasing agent, comptroller and factory and marketing manager. In 1935 he joined the Carrier Corporation as vice president and general manager. From 1940 to 1942 he was vice president and general manager of the Celotex Corporation in Chicago.
        Business and Professional Ties
        He joined General Electric in 1945 to head its affiliated manufacturing companies. While at G.E. he was a director of numerous companies, chairman of the Marketing Executives Society, director of the American Management Association and a member of various committees of the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and the Commerce and Industry Association of New York.
        He was the author of two books. The first, "The Truth About Boulwarism" (1969; Bureau of National Affairs), using General Electric as an example, dealt with measures that business executives and their companies could use to gain public confidence and with steps to help workers understand business economics.
        The second book, "What You Can Do About Inflation, Unemployment, Productivity, Profit and Collective Bargaining" was published in 1972.
        Mr. Boulware's wife, the former Norma Brannock, died in 1987. There are no immediate survivors.
      