
        Dr. W. Montague Cobb, a physician, educator and a former president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and lived in Washington
        He died of cardiac arrest, a family spokesman said.
        Dr. Cobb was also the retired chairman of the anatomy department at Howard University Medical School and a past president of the National Medical Association, with which he was affiliated for 42 years. He was editor of the Journal of the National Medical Association from 1949 to 1977 and, with the exception of one year, was chairman of its Council on Medical Education from 1948 to 1963.
        A 1925 graduate of Amherst College, Dr. Cobb earned his medical degree at Howard University in 1929 and a Ph.D. from Case Western Reserve University in 1932. He was active in civil rights causes and was on the board of directors of the N.A.A.C.P. for more than 30 years and served as president of the organization from 1976 to 1982.  Professor at Howard
        He was a professor at the Howard medical school for more than 40 years, after having been appointed as an assistant professor of anatomy in 1932. He became a full professor 10 years later and in 1947 was named chairman of the anatomy department. He held the post until 1969. when he was elevated to the rank of Distinguished Professor. In 1973, he was named Distinguished Professor Emeritus. In retirement he continued as a visiting professor at several universities, including Stanford University, the University of Maryland and Harvard University.
        Dr. Cobb was the recipient of nine honorary degrees, including ones from Amherst, Georgetown University, Brown University and Colby College. He was a member of numerous civic and professional organizations, including the Friends of the National Zoo, the Junior Police and Citizens Corporation, the American Association of Physical Anthropologists, the Anthropological Society of Washington and the Washington Society for the History of Medicine.
        He is survived by two daughters, Carolyn Wilkinson of Washington and Amelia Gray of Silver Spring, Md., and four grandchildren.
      