
        Gideon Hausner, who as Attorney General of Israel prosecuted the Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann nearly three decades ago, died on Thursday in Jerusalem. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Hausner died of cancer and had been hospitalized several times in recent years, a spokesman for the Israeli Consul-General in New York said.
        Mr. Hausner occupied center stage in world affairs for several months in 1961 and 1962 when news media around the globe closely reported the trial of Eichmann, the Gestapo colonel who supervised the mass deportation and extermination of millions of European Jews and who was kidnapped by Israeli agents in Argentina in 1960 after 15 years of hiding and running from country to country.
        Mr. Hausner, a native of Lvov, then a city in Poland and a now a part of the Soviet Ukraine, immigrated to Palestine with his family in 1927, when he was 12 years old and Adolf Hitler was six years away from coming to power in Germany. Thus the future prosecutor was physically removed from the Holocaust as it unfolded, but he was far from isolated emotionally. Felt a Suffen Anguish
        While preparing for the Eichmann trial in the winter of 1961 Mr. Hausner rifled through a sheaf of Nazi documents and stopped abruptly when he came to a report by a German officer in Poland giving the names of four Jewish "bandits" who had been caught and executed.
        Mr. Hausner recalled feeling a sudden anguish when he recognized the four as childhood friends of his. But he was touched almost as deeply, he said, by countless other papers in his file recounting atrocities suffered by Jews under Hitler.
        Eichmann was convicted and hanged after a trial that etched into world conciousness, perhaps even more than the Nuremburg war crimes tribunal 16 years earlier, the horrors of the Nazi death camps.
        Mr. Hausner gained instant world attention with his opening address at the trial, in which he told the judges that, standing before them: "I am not standing alone. With me are six million accusers, but they cannot rise to their feet and point an accusing finger." Moved to Palestine
        Their ashes, the prosecutor said, referring to the death camps, "are piled up on the hills of Auschwitz and in the fields of Treblinka, and are strewn in the forests of Poland."
        Mr. Hausner was born into a family whose history was closely woven with the Zionist cause that gave birth to Israel. His father, a school teacher and later chief rabbi of Lvov, served in the Austrian Army in World War I as a chaplain for the Jewish Legion and later established a Jewish newspaper.
        After the family moved to Palestine, Mr. Hausner studied law. He served as a special policeman for the British authorities ruling the country under a League of Nations mandate and at the same time was a member of the Haganah, the Jewish defense force.
        He studied at Hebrew University and, after obtaining a law degree, went into private practice in Jerusalem and remained active in Zionist politics. He was appointed Attorney General, his first public office, in 1960. A shy man, he sought to make himself as inconspicuous as possible but soon was thrust into the world spotlight when he was chosen by the government to prosecute Eichmann. 4 Terms in Parliament
        After the trial he stayed on as Attorney General until 1963, when he was forced out in party factionalism. In 1965 he was elected to the first of four terms in the Israeli Parliament as a member of the Independent Liberal party. From 1974 to 1977 he served as minister without portfolio in the cabinet of Prime Minister Itzhak Rabin. He returned to private law practice in 1977.
        In 1969 Mr. Hausner was appointed chairman of the Yad Vashem, Israel's national monument and documentation center dedicated to victims of the Holocaust.
        Mr. Hausner is surived by his wife, the former Judith Lipschitz; a daughter, Tamar, and a son, Amos.
      