
        Dr. Logan Wilson, a former chancellor of the University of Texas system and past president of the American Council on Education, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Austin, Tex. He was 83 years old and lived in Austin.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        In a long career as an educator Dr. Wilson, a sociologist by training, sought to insulate universities from what he called "vested-interest group pressure, splinter movements and fragmented approaches" that he regarded as plaguing higher education.
        In 1956, three years after he took over as head of the university system, he opened all academic programs to black students, making it the first university system in the South to integrate, although its dormitories remained segregated until the mid-1960's. New Emphasis on Academics
        In eight years as the administrative head of the Texas system, he fought to increase faculty salaries and to establish a reputation for academic achievement at an institution that had been regarded primarily as a premier football factory.
        He left Texas in 1961 to become president of the Council on Education in Washington, the most influential nongovernmental body in the field. There he sought, among other things, to raise standards of degree-granting by colleges and to improve the quality of graduate faculties. He retired in 1971.
        Dr. Wilson, a native of Huntsville, Tex., was a graduate of Sam Houston College, held master's degrees from the University of Texas at Austin and from Harvard University and received his doctorate from Harvard.
        He began teaching in 1928 as an assistant professor of English at East Texas State College and taught sociology at the University of Maryland before heading the sociology departments at Tulane and the University of Kentucky.
        In 1944 he returned to Tulane as dean of Newcomb College there, and in 1951 he was appointed vice president and provost of the University of North Carolina. Two years later he was chosen to head the Texas university system.
        He wrote many articles in sociological and other academic publications and was the author of four books, including "The Academic Man," published in 1942, and "Shaping American Higher Education" in 1972.
        Dr. Wilson is survived by his wife, the former Myra Marshall, whom he married in 1932; two sons, Marshall Wilson of Houston and Dr. Reed Wilson of Portland, Ore.; a brother, Samuel, of Huntsville, and four grandchildren.
      