
        Alexis Minotis, the dean of Greek tragic actors, who was a longtime pillar and director of the Greek National Theater, died Sunday in the Red Cross Hospital in Athens. He was 90 years old and lived in Athens.
        His death was caused by a stroke, the hospital said.
        Mr. Minotis performed in, and often staged, classical dramas from many nations in his native language at home and abroad. His frequent leading lady was Katina Paxinou, his wife, who died in 1973.
        He interpreted not only the works of ancient Greece, but also those of Shakespeare, Ibsen, Strindberg, Pirandello, Brecht, Beckett and O'Neill. He was particulary praised for his title roles in "Hamlet," "Henry V" and "Richard III," as well as for Shylock in "The Merchant of Venice."
        Mr. Minotis, who spoke a resonant English, adhered to traditional values, but he enriched classical production with contemporary knowledge, remarking in 1980: "when I'm playing Oedipus, I cannot overlook Freud." A Message of Dignity
        He was hailed in half a dozen countries for his performance in "Oedipus the King." He later returned to the character in "Oedipus at Colonus." The latter play, he said, held this timeless message: "While man may be helpless in controlling what happens to him, within himself he can choose to live honestly and to die with dignity."
        Mr. Minotis, whose original name was Alexander Minotakis, was born in Canea, Crete, on Aug. 8, 1900, the third of 10 children of a fabric merchant. The youth rebeled at tradition and vowed to become an actor when he saw his first play, performed by a traveling company, at the age of 12.
        After finishing his military service in 1925, he joined a theater company in Athens and began working with Miss Paxinou. The couple then joined the newly created National Theater of Greece. They were married in 1940, 12 years after they met, when World War II threatened to separate them.
        She fled to Britain and the United States, while he was captured twice by the Germans. He finally escaped to Cairo and joined her in Los Angeles, where he played bit parts while she had major character roles. In 1950, they were able to return to Athens to re-create the national theater, form an experimental company and travel the world, bringing new life to ancient tragedies and modern innovations.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      