
        John Fuller, a playwright, documentary film producer and author of many books about the unexplained, died Wednesday at the Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Weston, Conn.
        His wife, Elizabeth, said he died of lung cancer.
        For all his versatility, Mr. Fuller was best known for books about unidentified flying objects, the occult and near-disasters. "The Ghost of Flight 401," published in 1976, was made into a television movie starring Ernest Borgnine. "The Interrrupted Journey" (1966), about a couple in Portsmouth, N.H., who under hypnosis relate details of having been taken aboard a space ship and interviewed by its humanoid occupants, became a television movie starring James Earl Jones and Estelle Parsons.
        Mr. Fuller's last book, "The Pack" (1989), about rats taking over after a nuclear meltdown, is his only novel.
        John Grant Fuller was born in Philadelphia on Nov. 30, 1913, and graduated from Lafayette College in 1936. For the next 25 years he worked in radio and television and was at various times a writer, director or producer of such shows as "20th Century," "Du Pont Show of the Week," "The Garry Moore Show," "Candid Camera" and "The Great American Dream Machine." Adapted His Own Work
        Mr. Fuller wrote two Broadway plays: "The Pink Elephant" (1953), a two-act comedy with Steve Allen in the role of a rebellious ghost writer for a politician, and "Love Me Little" (1958), a comedy adapted by Mr. Fuller from a novel by Amanda Vail, the pen name of Warren Miller.
        Mr. Fuller wrote a column for The Saturday Review of Literature from 1957 to 1967, during which time he wrote several books, including "Incident At Exeter" (1966), an account of stories told by people in Exeter, N.H., about flying saucers.
        That experience started Mr. Fuller on a long line of books on similar or related subjects: "Arigo: The Surgeon With the Rusty Knife" (1974), "The Airman Who Would Not Die" (1979) (1968), "We Almost Lost Detroit" (1975) and "The Poison That Fell From the Sky" (1978), about the after-effects of a chemical plant explosion in 1976 near the Italian town of Seveso. Used Government Papers
        Mr. Fuller was sometimes criticized by reviewers for not using footnotes in his books and for what they judged was the implausibility of his topics. But as Jeff Greenfield wrote in The New York Times Book Review in reviewing "The Poison That Fell From the Sky," Mr. Fuller "keeps raising the most unsettling of questions." Moreover, even before passage of the Freedom of Information Act, he had a facility for somehow obtaining Government documents, which he incorporated in some of his books.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fuller is survived by their son, Christopher, also of Weston; three sons from a previous marriage, John G., of Toronto; Geoffrey, of New Haven, and Judd, of New York, and a sister, Carol Chambers.
        A memorial service will be held at 4 P.M. Monday at the Unitarian Church in Westport, Conn.
      