
        Raymond Oliver, one of the great chefs of postwar France who at the height of his popularity was famed as much for his theatrical style as his cuisine, died in France yesterday. He was 81 years old.
        His family declined to provide details of either the exact place of death or the cause.
        For more than 35 years, Mr. Oliver was the owner of Le Grand Vefour on the Rue de Beaujolais in the Palais-Royal district. His restaurant enjoyed a reputation as one of the best in a city of extraordinary cuisine.
        His celebrity clientele ranged from statesmen like Winston Churchill and Andre Malraux, to writers including Albert Camus and Georges Simenon, to the industrialists and financiers Henry Ford 2d and David Rockefeller. The Aga Khan, and Prince Rainier and Princess Grace of Monaco were among his appreciative clients, as were Jean Cocteau and Colette.
        Rich Ingredients Preferred
        Indeed, Fraises Jean Cocteau was regarded as one of his masterpieces, blending strawberries, macaroons, heavy cream, light cream, kirsch, powdered sugar, vanilla extract, whipped cream and crystallized violets. Mr. Oliver detested the nouvelle cuisine, preferring the rich ingredients favored by the chefs in his native Gascony.
        "The important thing is design," he once said. "To make good cuisine it's necessary to have a solid base." That translated to the use of filet mignon, baby lamb, lobster and pheasant, which might be slathered with truffles, caviar, foie gras, cognac or armagnac. He was not a chef to stint.
        Mr. Oliver, who was born in Langon in the Bordeaux region, was the son and grandson of cooks. His maternal grandmother gave Mr. Oliver his first instruction in cooking as a boy, and he began his apprenticeship as a chef under his father at the age of 15.
        During World War II, Mr. Oliver operated a hotel in the French Alps, organized a Resistance cell, and hid Allied airmen who had been shot down on bombing missions. He sheltered an 11-man American bomber crew until the liberation and was later decorated by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower.  Award for Restaurant
        In 1948 Mr. Oliver bought Le Grand Vefour, a restaurant dating to 1760, and slowly made it into one of the gastronomical centers of Paris.
        Six years after Mr. Oliver bought the restaurant it was awarded the prized third star by the Michelin guide, France's atlas to good dining, one of only a handful of kitchens that were so honored at that time.
        "No woman was ever a great cook," he once told a group of American women. "A woman cooks like her mother, to please a man. But when men cook, it's to please themselves. They like to experiment, to explore unknown frontiers."
        Under the direction of its showman-chef, Le Grand Vefour was for more than two decades the place to be seen in Paris, offering magnificent and innovative food to a distinguished international clientele of serious and grateful eaters.
        This pointed its flamboyant owner to stardom and his Legion of Honor. The following years were highlighted by a weekly television show, videocassettes and records offering cooking lessons and worldwide tours promoting French food with missionary zeal.
        Eventually, however, food critics complained that the restaurant had fallen in stature because of Mr. Oliver's frequent absences and other enterprises.
        Yet he continued to own and operate the restaurant, and several others as well, until the explosion of a bomb of unknown origin in 1983 injured 12 diners and wrecked the main room. He sold the restaurant shortly afterward and retired in 1984 at the age of 75.
        Mr. Oliver was the author of 30 books on food, including in 1969 "La Cuisine," a gastronomical compendium that was intended to make modern cooking accessible to everyone. He also owned a gastronomic library of 3,000 volumes dating to the 16th century.
        Mr. Oliver married twice and was the father of three daughters and a son.
      