
        William G. H. Finch, a radio engineer who in the late 1930's pioneered the development of facsimile transmission of printed matter and photographs, died on Monday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 93 years old and lived in Port St. Lucie, Fla.
        He died of complications of diabetes, a family spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Finch was the founder of Finch Telecommunications Laboratories in Manhattan and held hundreds of patents for inventions in radio communications, including the design of a machine to send printed matter and photographs by radio, through a process known as radio facsimile. He also developed a process for a "talking newspaper," that would produce a printed sound track on newsprint, and a device to allow a reader to reproduce the sound at home.
        In 1938 Mr. Finch received a patent for a method by which color photographs could be sent over telephone lines to a device that would reproduce them. The advent of World War II and the development of television dampened interest in his process.
        He was born in Birmingham, England, on June 28, 1897, and came to the United States in 1906. After attending Woodward High School in Cincinnati, he took special courses in electrical engineering and radio communications at various institutions, including Columbia University and the University of Cincinnati.
        He was a radio engineer and an editor with the International News Service and established the first radio-typewriter press circuit between New York and Chicago and later between New York and Havana.
        He served as assistant chief engineer with the Federal Communications Commission before founding his own company in 1935. During World War II he was a communications officer in the Navy and retired from the Naval Reserve in 1957 with the rank of captain.
        Mr. Finch was actively working on a number of new inventions up to his death, family members said.
        He is survived by a daughter, Eloise Tholen of Birmingham, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      