
        Sir David Stirling, founder of Britain's elite Special Air Service and dubbed the "Phantom Major" by Hitler's troops in World War II, died after a long illness on Sunday. He was 74 years old.
        The death was announced yesterday by Alan Hoe, Sir David's biographer and a former S.A.S. major, The Associated Press reported from London.
        A descendant of Scottish aristocrats and the son of a brigadier general, Archibald David Stirling was serving as a colonel with the Scots Guards when the war broke out. With the British locked in combat in North Africa with Field Marshal Erwin Rommel's Afrika Corps and its Italian allies, the young officer fought the military bureaucracy to form a special outfit to operate behind enemy lines.
        He was allotted six officers and 60 noncommissioned officers for an "army within an army." Operating at night and hiding out by day, his Long-Range Desert Patrol Group staged lightning raids on enemy airfields and munition dumps.
        Blowing Up Planes and Vehicles
        The commandos, among them Randolph Churchill, the son of Winston Churchill, blew up planes and parking lots. Colonel Stirling led the outfit for 14 months before he was captured by the Germans, who had dubbed him the "Phantom Major." He escaped, was recaptured and sat out the rest of the war at Colditz Castle in Germany.
        Colonel Stirling's exploits were recounted in a book by Virginia Cowles, "The Phantom Major" (Harpers, 1958). The group he had formed became the S.A.S., a cloak-and-dagger operation that was recently employed, with some controversy, against the Irish Republican Army. Its motto: "Who Dares Wins."
        Decorated for bravery, Colonel Stirling left the army after the war and went to live in Africa, where he founded the Capricorn Africa Society to promote racial harmony. Later he ran Watchguard (International) Ltd., a secretive company through which he helped train security units for Arab and African countries.
        In the 1970's, with Britain in economic turmoil, he emerged at the head of GB-75, another shadowy group at home that offered to recruit civilian "patriots" to deal with left-wing anarchy and an impending general strike.
        Sir David was knighted in Queen Elizabeth's New Year's honors list this year.
      