
        Lawrence Durrell, the British novelist and poet whose sensuous and exotic fiction, especially in the "Alexandria Quartet" novels, made him a sort of prophet of the sexual revolution of the 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Sommieres, France. He was 78 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed, but a family member said that Mr. Durrell, who suffered from emphysema, had been ailing for a week. Mr. Durrell's last book, "Caesar's Vast Ghost: A Portrait of Provence," a nonfiction book about the French region, was shipped to book stores only days ago by its American publisher, Arcade Publishing.
        The four Alexandria novels, published between 1957 and 1960, tell a multi-layered tale set against the backdrop of one of Egypt's principal cities, in which Mr. Durrell (pronounced DURR-ul) lived in 1944 and 1945 while a press attache in the British Information Office.
        The novels attracted many readers with the evocative quality of their prose, especially in the descriptions of Alexandria, as well as the diversity of their characters and their pervasive eroticism. The books are entitled "Justine," "Balthazar," "Mountolive" and "Clea." Space-Time and Siblings
        The relationship of the novels to one another was described by Mr. Durrell as that of siblings. He also said that the quartet was an attempt to apply the space-time continuum to the novel. The books were intended, he said, to be an investigation of modern love.
        The particular quality of his descriptive gift can be seen in this passage from "Clea":
        "The whole quarter lay drowsing in the umbrageous violet of approaching nightfall. A sky of palpitating velours which was cut into by the stark flare of a thousand electric light bulbs. It lay over Tatwig Street, that night, like a velvet rind. Only the lighted tips of the minarets rose above it on their slender invisible stalks -- appeared hanging suspended in the sky; trembling slightly with the haze as if about to expand their hoods like cobras. Drifting idly down those remembered streets once more I drank in (forever keepsakes of the Arab town) the smell of crushed chrysanthemums, ordure, scents, strawberries, human sweat and roasting pigeons." Born in India
        Lawrence George Durrell was born Feb. 27, 1912, in Jullundur, India, of English and Irish parents; his Irish-born father, an engineer, had gone to the subcontinent to work on the construction of the country's first railway.
        The boy was educated in India and then at St. Edmund's School, Canterbury, in England. He failed to gain admission to Cambridge University, and held a number of brief jobs, including that of jazz pianist in a London nightclub. He published a few poems and, in 1935, a novel about life in Bloomsbury called "Pied Piper of Lovers." He was one of four children. His younger brother, Gerald, is a naturalist and author whose book "My Family and Other Animals" chronicled the eccentricities of the Durrells.
        The same year Mr. Durrell married the first of his three wives, Nancy Myers, and moved with her, his mother and siblings to the island of Corfu, where he wrote his second novel, "Panic Spring," which was published in 1937. Because of the failure of his first novel, his publishers suggested that he use a pseudonym for his second effort; the name he chose was Charles Norden.
        His first book of significance resulted from his contact with the works of Henry Miller and then, by correspondence, with Miller himself. This book, called "The Black Book, an Agon," was regarded as pornographic by standards of the time. It was turned down by English publishers and finally published in 1938 by the Obelisk Press in Paris, winning the praise of T. S. Eliot. When it was reissued in 1960, Mr. Durrell wrote that the book had a "special importance because in the writing of it I first heard the sound of my own voice." Press Officer in War
        Caught in Corfu at the outbreak of World War II, Mr. Durrell, his wife and infant daughter, Penelope Berengaria, escaped to Crete. Then he went on to Egypt, serving in Cairo and Alexandria as a British press officer throughout the war. He was also writing: "Prospero's Cell," about Corfu, and "Cities, Plains and People," a volume of poetry, were among the productions of those wartime years.
        Mr. Durrell's love affair with the Mediterranean littoral was lifelong; he lived and worked in Rhodes and Cyprus for many years. What many regard as his best book of prose aside from the quartet, "Bitter Lemons," is about Cyprus.
        As a press officer, he also served in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, for three years, a period that produced two satirical sketches of diplomatic life, "Esprit de Corps" and "Stiff Upper Lip." It was after leaving the Foreign Service in 1952 that he moved to Cyprus, where he lived with his second wife, Yvette Cohen, and their daughter, Sappho-Jane, until 1957, when they moved to Provence. Sappho-Jane died in 1985.
        By the time he moved to France, he had finished what he described as his "first serious book since 'The Black Book,' much clearer and better organized," which was the first novel of the Alexandria quartet, "Justine." It was published in Britain and the United States in 1957. With the next two of the four books, "Balthazar" and "Mountolive," the novels are concerned with the same group of characters during the 1930's; but each sees them from a different point of view. "Clea," published in 1960 -- Mr. Durrell was a quick writer and often in need of money -- returned to the same set of characters during World War II. Books Praised and Damned
        The quartet was praised and damned; some critics called for a Nobel Prize, others dismissed Mr. Durrell's work as steamily overwritten and insignificant in substance. His ornamented, lush style was particularly out of favor in the Britain of the time, but his work was highly regarded in the United States and even more in France. His experiments with extending or expanding the novel form through the "space-time" technique were questioned by many, but it was his style that provoked the most serious critical attention.
        In a 1961 interview in The Manchester Guardian, Mr. Durrell said of the quartet: "It is really intended to be a four-dimensional dance, a relativity poem, and ideally the four volumes should be read simultaneously as they cover the three sides of space and one of time. You might call it a sort of stereoscopic narrative with stereophonic personality."
        Most readers undoubtedly read it in a much more straightforward way, as a set of books that evoked a time and place with haunting reality, that led them through the erotic complexities of a number of relationships among characters and a city, the exotic port of Alexandria.
        Leon Edel said of the author, "It is Durrell's achievement that with all his bravura and his love for grand scenes and honeyed phrases, he has made us feel a time and a place and a group: and in the mid-century he has consolidated within his novels the subjective modes of the earlier decades." 'Total Sensual Apprehension'
        Another noted critic, George Steiner, wrote, "Touch by touch, Durrell builds his array of sensuous, rare expressions into patterns of imagery and idea so subtle and convoluted that the experience of reading becomes one of total sensual apprehension. No one else writing in English today has a comparable command of the light and music of language."
        In reviewing "Clea" in 1960, Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times: "Even those who are not struck all of a heap by Lawrence Durrell's 'Alexandria Quartet' must grant that these four novels comprise a remarkably ambitious fictional project written with bravura skill." In the same review, he said: "Wretched, tormented, vicious, Mr. Durrell's people continually mistake lust for love and ruin themselves in the process." He paid tribute, however, to the power of Mr. Durrell's descriptive writing:
        "But the Alexandria of Mr. Durrell's powerful imagination will always be far more real to thousands of readers than the actual Mediterranean port, a dream city created by art and poetic language that shimmers on the desert horizon of contemporary fiction like an exotic oasis, repulsive and yet fascinating, reeking of languorous lusts and dreary depravities."
        Place -- the sights and sounds and smells of the physical world -- were always of paramount importance in Mr. Durrell's books; one of his several volumes of travel writing was called "Spirit of Place." His poetry was highly praised, although neglected by readers. Published volumes included "The Red Limbo Lingo" (1971), "Vega and Other Poems" (1973) and selected poems published in 1976. He also wrote two verse plays, "Sappho" (1950) and "An Irish Faustus" (1963). Out of Critical Favor
        After the quartet, however, Mr. Durrell's prose fiction, in the general opinion of critics, became overwhelmingly intricate -- intricate, some said, to the point of obfuscation. "Tunc" and "Nunquam," published in 1968 and 1970, offered, in the view of the reviewer Richard Boston, "the same lush writing, the same wooden dialogue," that marked the Alexandria quartet. Mr. Boston went on: "Durrell says in the postface that he 'tried to move from the preposterous to the sublime.' To me it seemed firmly settled in the preposterous, with no sign of shifting from there."
        Mr. Durrell's next novel, "Monsieur," was also poorly received by some critics on its publication in 1975: "The book is light, intelligent and agreeable; it simply lacks the density to be important, and is much the worse for density," wrote John Skow in Time magazine.
        His most recent works, "Livia, or Buried Alive," published in 1978, and "Constance, or Solitary Practices," a novel published in 1982, met generally unenthusiastic critical reception. The final two volumes of his Avignon Quintet, "Sebastian, or, Ruling Passions" (1984) and "Quinx" (1985), were more warmly received.
        Reviewing the latter novel in The New York Times Book Review, Barbara Fisher Williamson wrote: "The sensual beauties of Mr. Durrell's text suggest a further similarity with Rabelais. Here, as inhis famous 'Alexandria Quartet,' Mr. Durrell writes descriptions that can take one's breath away. Avignon, ancient city of kings and popes, comes gloriously alive."
        Mr. Durrell's first two marriages ended in divorce. He married for a third time in 1960; he and his wife, Claude Marie Vineenden, lived near Nimes, in Provence, where he continued to reside after her death.
        Survivors include his daughter, Penelope Berengaria, and his brother Gerald. THE EXOTIC AND THE EROTIC
        Lawrence Durrell wrote both poetry and prose, with a notable sense of place and a concentration on the complexity of human relationships. These are some of his better-known works, listed chronologically:  POETRY  A Private Country 1943
        Cities, Plains and People 1946
        Sappho (verse drama) 1950
        The Tree of Idleness 1955
        Selected Poems 1956
        An Irish Faustus (verse drama) 1963
        The Red Limbo Lingo 1971
        Collected Poems 1979  PROSE  Panic Spring 1937
        The Black Book, an Agon 1938
        Prospero's Cell 1945
        Reflections on a Marine Venus 1953  Bitter Lemons 1957  The Alexandria Quartet: Justine (1957), Balthazar (1958), Mountolive (1958) and Clea (1960)
        A Private Correspondence (with Henry Miller) 1962  Tunc 1968  Nunquam 1970  Livia 1978  A Smile in the Mind's Eye 1981  Sebastian 1983 The Avignon Quintet: Monsieur (1975), Livia (1979), Constance (1983), Sebastian (1984) and Quinx (1985)
      