
        Frederick J. Cummings, an art historian, an art dealer and a former director of the Detroit Institute of Arts, died on Friday in Isleboro, Me. He was 57 years old and lived in New York City and Isleboro.
        Mr. Cummings's son Clark said that his father was believed to have died in a boating accident, and that the results of an autopsy would be released today.
        Mr. Cummings was best known for his 20 years at the Detroit Institute of Arts. He began there as curator of European art in 1964 and became the museum's executive director in 1967. He was appointed director in 1973. He organized a number of widely acclaimed exhibitions, including "Romantic Art in Britain, 1760-1860," "The Golden Age of Naples" and "French Painting 1774-1830: The Age of Revolution." Some Gains and Some Questions
        Under Mr. Cummings's directorship, the museum's annual budget grew to $26 million from $2 million and its staff to 310 from 103. Mr. Cummings established a fund for African art, a curatorship in Asian art and a Friends of Polish Art organization.
        When Mr. Cummings resigned from the museum in 1984, though, he had been under a cloud for some time. His resignation came five months after Mayor Coleman A. Young ordered city auditors to investigate rumors of cronyism, mismanagement and lavish and improper spending on the part of the director.
        Although the audit found "no evidence of conscious wrongdoing," it was critical of Mr. Cummings's spending procedures and it indicated that there were "administrative deficiencies at the Institute which need to be dealt with and corrected."  A Dealer in Drawings
        After leaving the museum, Mr. Cummings moved to New York and became a private dealer of 18th- and 19th-century drawings, particularly French. At the time of his death, he was preparing a catalogue raisonne on the late 18th- and early 19th-century French painter Anne-Louis Girodet-Trioson.
        Mr. Cummings was born in Floydada, Tex. His mother, Dolly, was a schoolteacher and his father, James, a farmer. He was brought up in Salem, Ore.
        He received his B.A. from Willamette College in Oregon in 1954 and his master's degree in art history from Harvard University in 1956. He was awarded a Ph.D. in art history from the University of Chicago in 1966.
        He is survived by two sons, James, of New York, and Clark, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Eleanor and Leslie, of Quinton, Mass., and Diana, of Fatima, Portugal, as well as his wife, Judith, of Seattle.
      