
        Edgar D. Croswell, a retired New York State Police official who in 1957 spotted and broke up what authorities called the biggest meeting of organized-crime leaders then known, died on Saturday at his home in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 77 years old.
        He died of emphysema, his wife, Nathalie, said.
        Mr. Croswell, who later became an authority on organized crime, was a sergeant in the State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation when he noticed out-of-town cars pulling up at the home of Joseph Barbara Sr. in Apalachin, N.Y., in November 1957. Mr. Barbara was a soft-drink bottler who had been a suspect in three murders, and Sergeant Croswell had had his house under occasional surveillance.
        Then, at a motel in the area where he had gone to investigate a bad-check case, Sergeant Croswell noticed Mr. Barbara's son making room reservations. The sergeant checked with a butcher, who said the Barbaras had ordered 200 pounds of steak and other meat delivered to their mansion.
        Finally, on Nov. 14, 1957, Sergeant Croswell, another trooper and two agents of the United States Treasury Department drove to the house, where some 40 Cadillacs, Lincolns and other luxury cars were parked. They set up a roadblock and called for help.
        Approximately 60 guests were taken in for questioning, including Vito Genovese, the reputed head of a New York City crime family; Joseph Profaci, listed by law-enforcement officials as a Brooklyn gangster, and Russell Buffalino, reputedly a crime boss in western New York State.
        Most of the visitors, who had come from New York City and parts of New Jersey, Ohio, California, Puerto Rico and Cuba, said they were visiting a sick friend. But the police speculated that it was a convention of Mafia leaders to discuss the murder of Albert Anastasia, an organized-crime figure, in Manhattan a month earlier.  20 Convictions Overturned
        The meeting led to a dozen investigations, and 20 of the participants were later convicted of conspiracy to obstruct justice. However, in 1960 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned the convictions on the ground that there was insufficient evidence of a conspiracy.
        The episode was one of the first pointing to the existence of organized crime on a broad scale in this country, officials said.
        Mr. Croswell, who was born in Woodstock, N.Y., joined the state police in 1941 and retired 25 years later as a captain. He then served as inspector general in the New York City Department of Sanitation and in 1970 joined the New York State Organized Crime Task Force. He retired again in 1979.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Robert, of Johnson City, N.Y.; a son and daughter from a previous marriage, Edgar, of Marbletown, N.Y., and Sharon Cherven of Woodstock; two sisters, Elsie Zimmerman of Sarasota, Fla., and Florence Haver of Clayton, Ga., and a brother LeeRoy, of Ocala, Fla.
      