
        Richard Lewis, a tenor who excelled in Handel and who also sang in the first performances of several contemporary operas, died yesterday at his home in Eastbourne, England. He was 76 years old.
        Mr. Lewis died in his sleep after an illness that began with a stroke several years ago, said Alix B. Williamson, a family friend.
        Mr. Lewis, one of the first English singers to achieve world fame in concert and opera, was born in Manchester on May 10, 1914, and began his performing career as a boy soprano. In 1934, he began studying the tenor repertory at the Royal Manchester College of Music.
        In 1947, he made his debuts at both Glyndebourne and Covent Garden, and he appeared regularly with both companies until 1979. His debut role at Glyndebourne was the Male Chorus in Britten's "Rape of Lucretia." His other roles there included Tom Rakewell in the first English staging of Stravinsky's "Rake's Progress," but he was also highly regarded for his performances in works by Monteverdi, Gluck, Mozart and Strauss. Known for Contemporary Roles
        At Covent Garden, his portrayals included Hoffmann, Tamino and Don Jose, but he was particularly prized as a performer of 20th-century music. In 1954, he created the role of Troilus in William Walton's "Troilus and Cressida," the role in which he made his American debut in 1955 at the San Francisco Opera.
        Mr. Lewis's other premieres included central roles in Sir Michael Tippett's "Midsummer Marriage" (1955) and "King Priam" (1962), both at Covent Garden, where he also sang Aron in the first British performance of Schoenberg's "Moses und Aron" in 1965. He was the tenor soloist in the first performance of Stravinsky's "Canticum," at the Venice International Festival of Contemporary Music in 1956, and he sang Captain Vere in the American premiere of Britten's "Billy Budd" with the American Opera Society at Carnegie Hall in 1966.
        Besides contemporary and standard repertory opera, Mr. Lewis appeared frequently in the United States as a soloist in concert works and oratorios, and he was considered to be particularly expert in Baroque music. He was a member of the New York-based Bach Aria Group in the 1960's. In the Baroque repertory, Handel was his specialty, and his recordings of Handel arias were widely admired. Mr. Lewis's last performance was a concert of Handel arias at the Kennedy Center in 1981.
        Mr. Lewis was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1963. He is survived by his wife, the soprano Elizabeth Robertson; two sons, Nigel and Michael, and a sister, Vera Edwards.
      