
        Donald R. Ulrich, an Air Force official who worked on the development of advanced optical materials for the program to design a missile defense in space, died Nov. 14 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 54 years old.
        He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        Dr. Ulrich, a physicist, was an authority on material science and ceramics engineering. He joined the staff of the Office of Scientific Research in 1975. At his death, he was program manager and deputy director of the chemical and atmospheric science directorship.
        He communicated with scientists in Britain, France and Japan as part of his work on the "Star Wars" missile defense program, officially known as the Strategic Defense Initiative.
        In 1988 he received the Strategic Defense Award and Gold Medal of the American Defense Preparedness Association, and in 1989, the Leo Friend Award from the American Chemical Society for his work on the chemical syntheses of ceramics.
        A native of West Orange, N.J., Dr. Ulrich was a graduate of Rutgers University, where he received master's and Ph.D. degrees in physics. He did post-doctoral work at the University of Minnesota and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. From 1963 to 1965, he served in the Army.
        He then worked at the Langley Research Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Hampton, Va., and for the General Electric Company.
        A colonel in the Air Force Reserve, Dr. Ulrich was a graduate and faculty member of the Air War College in Montgomery, Ala. In the late 1960's, he was an adjunct professor of physics at the University of Virginia.
        Dr. Ulrich is survived by his wife, Eleanor; two daughters, Carolyn of Alexandria, and Wendy of Harwich, Mass., and a son, Christoper of Alexandria.
        Correction:  November 27, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Saturday about Donald Ulrich, an Air Force physicist, misstated the hometown of a daughter, Carolyn Ulrich. She lives in Amherst, Mass., not Alexandria, Va.
      