
        Hugh MacLennan, one of Canada's best-known authors, died Wednesday night at his home in Montreal. He was 83 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Mr. MacLennan wrote "Two Solitudes" (1945), the second of seven novels, whose title became a byword for the strains between French and English-speaking Canadians -- although that was not its original connotation. The title is from a definition of love by the German poet Rainer Maria Rilke, as "two solitudes" that "protect and touch and greet each other."
        The book focuses on a venerable French-Canadian family: an aristocrat who confronts the fanaticism of a village priest and the wiles of an Englishman, and his son, who is left without roots after his father's ruin and death. Few of the English characters in "Two Solitudes" are likable, and the author, himself an English Canadian, said in 1977 that the book had been used to support the move for French Canada's independence.
        Before 1945, he recalled, the dominant, Protestant English who lived in the middle of Montreal were "the most arrogant people I have ever seen in Canada," and the Roman Catholic French of the area were largely uneducated, poor and "did what the priests told them."
        Since then, he added, the old English society has virtually died out, leaving an English minority mostly, though not entirely, free of bigotry. And among the French, he said, there had emerged during and after World War II a "large educated and at times brilliant middle class" that "began to demand things and to ask questions," and whose hostility for the English decreased because the French were no longer being put down.
        Later, though, Mr. MacLennan grew discouraged by the state of English and French-Canadian relations. Recently he told an interviewer: "I'm sure Quebec will become quite independent, but it'll take some time to happen. You don't amputate a nation easily."
        Mr. MacLennan's other novels include "The Precipice" (1948) "Each Man's Son" (1951), "The Watch That Ends the Night" (1959) and "Return of the Sphinx" (1967). He also wrote nonfiction, including "Scotchman's Return" (1960), a collection of essays, and "The Rivers of Canada" (1962), a political, social and natural history book. Taught at McGill
        He was born in Nova Scotia, and grew up in Halifax. He graduated from Dalhousie University and attended Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar. He later received a doctorate in classics from Princeton University.
        In 1963 he moved to Montreal. He taught English there, at McGill University, and made the city his home, although he never mastered the French language.
        A longtime friend, Alec McGinnis, a professor emeritus at McGill, said Mr. MacLennan had reacted strongly as an adult against a rigid upbringing. "His novel 'Each Man's Son' was really a blast against Puritanism," he said.
        Surviving are his wife, Frances, and a sister.
      