
        Georges Kaplan, a master furrier who had a salon on Fifth Avenue for more than 20 years, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old.
        He had been suffering from Alzheimer's desease for some time, his daughter Nicole Alenick said.
        Mr. Kaplan learned the fur business in Paris, where he was born, from his father-in-law, Maurice Vissotsky. He came to New York during World War II, opening a shop at 730 Fifth Avenue, which expanded from the size of a broom closet to become a grand salon as the company prospered.
        When his son Jacques joined him in 1946, the expansion continued. They added unusual furs to the traditional line of mink, fox and Persian lamb, and treated them in unusal ways. Some of their pieces were done in Chinese weasel dyed gold, rabbit worked into a black, brown and white plaid, and flying squirrel cut into squares alternating with embroidered velvet for a patchwork effect. Using fur designs by Paco Rabanne, the French designer who specialized in clothes made of plastic squares hooked together, the Kaplans brought furs into the iconoclastic fashion madness of the 1960's. 'The Business Prospered'
        The Kaplans added improbable furs like wildebeest to the salon, bartered paintings for their wives from artists whose work they admired and commissioned artists like Richard Anuszkiewicz to transfer their brushwork from canvas to fur. They also offered furs as wall coverings and bedspreads.
        "Father was very conservative and his eyebrows would rise at some of Jacques's ideas," said Mrs. Alenick, who worked for a time in the company. "But the business prospered."
        Even though they may have been intrigued by some of the eccentric designs, the majority of women shopping in the Kaplan salon bought serious furs like mink.
        In 1969, the business was sold to the Kenton Corporation.
        "It was a wonderful partnership," said Jacques Kaplan. "My father was very neat and organized and I was just the opposite -- I was wild. But we worked well together."
        Mr. Kaplan is survived by his wife, Ginette; two sons, Jacques, of Kent, Conn., and Maurice, of Vineland, N.J.; two daughters, Monique Winston of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Mrs. Alenick of Hillside, N.J., 11 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
      