
        Eliot Porter, a photographer whose color landscapes have been reproduced on numerous Sierra Club posters and exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 88 years old.
        He died of cardiac arrest after a long illness, his son, Eliot Jr., said.
        Mr. Porter was often classed as a wildlife photographer, and his first love was taking pictures of birds. His book "Birds of North America -- A Personal Selection," published in 1972, is regarded as a classic. But it was while waiting silently in the woods for his subjects to return to their nests, or to strike a desired pose, that he found himself intrigued by delicate plant formations underfoot.
        He soon realized that all of nature, and particularly the need for conservation, was his true subject.
        The breadth of his interests was illustrated by such books as "The Flow of Wildness" (1968), which dealt with the Galapagos Islands; "The Tree Where Man Was Born" (1972), which explored Africa, and "Antarctica" (1973).  Legitimized Color Photography
        A trained scientist, Mr. Porter could also claim technical achievements in photography. Reviewing the last showing of his work in New York in 1986, Andy Grundberg of The New York Times wrote that color photography was "persona non grata" among serious photographers in the 1940's when Mr. Porter began experimenting with it, and "it is to his eternal credit that he helped make it a naturalized citizen of the art world."
        Eliot Furness Porter was born in Winnetka, Ill., on Dec. 6, 1901. Like one of his brothers, the painter Fairfield Porter, who died in 1975, he developed artistic sensibilities at an early age. On camping trips in the Canadian Rockies, he watched his father, an architect, take photographs of spectacular views, and began to make his own pictures.
        "I soon discovered that the most satisfactory outlet for expressing my excitement over birds was the camera," he wrote in his introduction to "Birds of North America."
        But his love of nature and photography did not seem suitable for a career, he later said, and so after majoring in chemical engineering at Harvard he earned an M.D. at the Harvard Medical School. From 1929 to 1939, he taught biochemistry at Harvard and Radcliffe College.  Help From Stieglitz
        He never lost his fascination with birds, however, and continued to photograph them. Encouraged by the photographer Alfred Stieglitz, who presented a show of Mr. Porter's photographs at his New York gallery, he finally gave up teaching and started work full-time as a freelance photographer in 1939.
        During the 1940's, assisted by Guggenheim fellowships in 1941 and 1946, he began to achieve remarkable results with the Eastman Kodak Company's new color film, Kodachrome. It was this early color photography that first established his reputation.
        Mr. Porter's sense of composition was said to be unerring, and his fellow photographer Ansel Adams called his technique "impeccable."
        In 1963, Brooks Atkinson, the chief drama critic of The Times, reviewed Mr. Porter's book "The Place No One Knew," which consisted of 72 color photographs of Glen Canyon and Rainbow Bridge in southeastern Utah, and called it "a masterpiece of photography."
        He also described Mr. Porter's book "In Wilderness Is the Preservation of the World," as "the finest series of photographs ever made to illustrate texts by Thoreau."
        "Mr. Porter's eye is less for the grand sweep," wrote Mr. Atkinson, "than for details of running water, iridescent pools, rock walls, rock textures, caverns, violent twists of sandstone, lichens, willows, leafy trees. He looks for the grand truth in the minute. It is the color that conveys the grandeur. Purples, blues, reds, yellows, oranges -- all of them overlaid with metallic rilliance -- compose natural beauty of overwhelming vitality."  'Nobody Believes'
        Mr. Porter was also a passionate conservationist, donating his work to the Sierra Club and urging conservation in almost all of his books.
        "The trouble is that conservation becomes a cliche," he told an interviewer in 1969. "You have to get people to take it seriously. When a reputable scientist says our air may become unbreathable in a decade or so, nobody believes it. Right now, everybody can breathe, so they're not concerned."
        "Sometimes you can tell a large story with a tiny subject," he continued. "My pictures are a form of editorial comment; they show the way I feel."
        Mr. Porter is survived by his wife, Aline, of Tesuque, N.M.; five sons, Eliot Jr., of St. Louis; Charles A., of Winchester, Mass.; Jonathan, of Albuquerque, N.M.; Stephen, of Bellefonte, Pa., and Patrick, of Tesuque; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      