
        Howard Cady, who during a 50-year publishing career edited books by Rex Harrison, William Saroyan, Sophia Loren, Leon Uris, Barry Goldwater and Norman Vincent Peale, died Sunday at Porter Medical Center in Middlebury, Vt. He was 76 years old and had recently moved to Middlebury.
        His son, Peter A. Cady, said he died of cancer of the liver.
        Mr. Cady retired as a senior editor at William Morrow & Company in 1985, but he remained a consultant to several publishing houses.
        "He was a creative editor," said Walter Lord, who published several books with Mr. Cady over a span of 30 years. "He rarely touched my copy, but he made valuable suggestions about things that should be added or subtracted from the manuscript. Authors usually accepted his advice because they weren't the kinds of things that offended." A Varsity Football Player
        Mr. Cady was born in Middlebury on July 28, 1914. He graduated from Mid dlebury College in 1936, where he was on the varsity football and ski teams. The next year, he joined the Macmillan Company, where he remained until 1941, when he became managing editor of Stephen Daye Press in Brattleboro, Vt.
        During World War II, Mr. Cady served in the Office of Strategic Services. Mr. Lord, who was also in the O.S.S., met Mr. Cady in London and Paris during the war. "I was writing foolish things in the office and he liked them," Mr. Lord said. "He suggested that I become a writer after the war, and I've been doing it ever since."
        Their first book together, "The Freemantle Diary," was published in 1954 by Little, Brown, where Mr. Cady had been editor in chief. The next year both editor and author moved to Henry Holt, which published Mr. Lord's "Night to Remember," a book suggested by Mr. Cady about the sinking of the Titanic.
        Mr. Cady also edited "Day of Infamy" (Holt) by Mr. Lord, and they teamed up for another book about the Titanic, "The Night Lives On" (Morrow), which was published in 1986, by which time Mr. Cady had become a consultant to the company.
        An Editor at Many Houses
        After the war, Mr. Cady was an editor in San Francisco for Doubleday & Company. He became editor in chief at G. P. Putnam's Sons from 1957 to 1962, and editor in chief of Holt, Rinehart & Winston from 1962 to 1964. For the next four years, he was executive editor at the David McKay Company, before joining Morrow as a senior editor.
        A man of broad interests, Mr. Cady edited "Battle Cry," by Mr. Uris, "My Wicked, Wicked Ways," by Errol Flynn, and "The Peter Principle," by Dr. Lawrence J. Peter, as well as books by Doris Day, A. E. Hotchner, Lowell Thomas and Paul Harvey. He also edited the autobiographies of Mr. Harrison, Bette Davis and Joan Fontaine.
        Mr. Cady is survived by his wife, Marjory, of Middlebury; a son, Peter, of Pittsford, Vt., and four daughters, Janet Cady Hutchinson of South Egremont, Mass.; Susan Cady Hayward of Montpelier, Vt.; Anne Cady Jackson of New Haven, Vt., and Ellen L. Cady of Concord, N.H. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren; a brother, Wallace M. Cady of Lakewood, Colo., and a sister, the Rev. Frances Grauman of Watertown, N.Y.
        A memorial service will be held in the Congregational Church of Middlebury on Monday at 2 P.M.
      