
        Louis Yagoda, a labor mediator and arbitrator for almost half a century, died on Monday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        He died of cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Yagoda helped settle several important labor disputes.
        In 1975, when the city was in the throes of its fiscal crisis, he and other mediators settled a five-day strike by the United Federation of Teachers that closed elementary and high schools.
        Two decades earlier he had mediated a battle between tank-truck drivers and hauling companies that had threatened to cut off milk supplies to 17 million people in the New York area. And in 1959 he helped settle a six-day strike of tugboat crews that tied up New York harbor.  Former Union Organizer
        Mr. Yagoda was with the New York State Mediation Board from 1942 to 1962, and he continued to serve as a mediator and arbitrator in contract disputes until his final illness.
        Mr. Yagoda, who was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, put himself through New York University by working on Seventh Avenue as a stock boy, elevator operator, cashier and garment cutter. In 1933, with a degree in English literature and no prospect of a teaching job in the depths of the Depression, he became an organizer for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers.
        After working as an investigator for the Department of Labor, he joined the State Mediation Board. In World War II he served in the Navy and in 1952 and 1953 he took a temporary assignment in Israel to direct operations for CARE, the private relief agency.
        With the mediation board he helped settle disputes and shape collective bargaining agreements in several industries, including construction, rubber, petroleum, electronics, hotels, baking and dairy.
        Since 1962 he worked primarily as a freelance arbitrator.
        Mr. Yagoda is survived by his wife, the former Harriet Lewis; a son, Ben, of Philadelphia; a brother, Abe, of Elmhurst, Queens; a sister, Sylvia Gorlitz of Rockaway Park, Queens, and two granddaughters.
      