
        Samuel Noah Kramer, one of the foremost authorities on the ancient Sumerian language and literature, died yesterday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 93 years old.
        The University of Pennsylvania, where Dr. Kramer was a professor emeritus in Assyriology, said he died of throat cancer.
        The Sumerians flourished in Mesopotamia more than 4,000 years ago, and their culture was one of the first to leave a written record in cuneiform script on clay tablets. In 1930, Dr. Kramer began the work that continued the rest of his life, excavating Sumerian tablets in Iraq and translating those, along with others from collections in Istanbul and at the University of Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Ake Sjoberg, curator of the Babylonian tablet collection and director of the Sumerian dictionary project at the university, said Dr. Kramer "really rediscovered the whole Sumerian literature." 'Completely Transformed' Field
        Dr. Thorkild Jacobsen, a Sumerologist at Harvard University, said Dr. Kramer was one of the rare scholars whose contribution to his field was "so basic that the field may be said to have been completely transformed, almost created, by him."
        As Dr. Kramer discovered in ample detail, the Sumerian scribes and poets sang of their gods and goddesses, of floods and kings, of school boys and apple polishing. They created a rich literature of myths, epics, lamentations and proverbs.
        In scholarly articles and some 30 books for both academic and popular audiences, Dr. Kramer portrayed the Sumerians as people not very different from those in modern societies. They worked hard to earn a living, worried about their children, argued with each other about land and business and did not like to pay taxes. He discovered and enjoyed quoting one of their proverbs: "You can have a lord, you can have a king, but the man to fear is the tax collector."
        Among his books were "History Begins at Sumer," published in 1959 and reissued three years ago, and his autobiography, "In the World of Sumer." With characteristic modesty, he once told an interviewer that he had managed to write so much only because he had lived so long.
        Born near Kiev on Sept. 28, 1897, Simcha Kramer, as he was then named, came to Philadelphia with his family in 1905. His first public school teacher began calling him Samuel. Later, he enrolled at Temple University intending to become a writer. He also tried his hand at printing and made other false starts at law school and as a graduate student in philosophy.
        At the age of 29, while taking courses at Dropsie College in Philadelphia, he discovered the excitement of Egyptology. But a falling out with his professor made him quit Dropsie and Egyptology. He entered the University of Pennsylvania as a graduate student in Oriental studies, specializing in Mesopotamian languages. He earned his doctorate in 1929 with a dissertation that gave no hint of the scope that he would bring to his later research. It was entitled, "The Verb in the Kirkuk Tablets."
        Dr. Kramer spent 1930 on an archeological expedition to Iraq. It was a time of extraordinary ferment in Mesopotamian archeology with excavations of the ruins of Ur, Kish and Uruk, the great walled city to which the Sumerian hero Gilgamesh returned after many of his adventures.
        Dr. Kramer began transcribing tablets as a Guggenheim Fellow in Istanbul and worked on the Assyrian dictionary being prepared at the University of Chicago. He returned to Pennsylvania as a faculty member in 1942 and was appointed Clark Research Professor of Assyriology in 1948.
        His retirement at age 70 in 1968 was merely a formality. He continued to translate Sumerian texts and write books, "working almost to the last moment," as Dr. Sjoberg recalled. On his 90th birthday, the University Museum honored him with a public symposium, "History Begins at Sumer," that attracted most of the world's Sumerian scholars.
        Dr. Kramer was a member of the American Oriental Society, Archeological Institute of America, Society of Biblical Literature and American Philosophical Society, which awarded him its John Frederick Lewis Prize. He was the recipient of several honorary degrees.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mildred Tokarsky; a son, Daniel, of Staten Island; a daughter, Judith Kramer-Greene of Albany, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      