
        David Lloyd Kreeger, retired chairman of Geico, the Government Employees Insurance Company, and an art collector and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 81 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Kreeger, who was internationally known as a collector of Impressionist and modern painting and sculpture, was president and chairman of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington for almost 20 years.
        The mansion on Foxhall Road in which he and his wife, Carmen, also a patron of the arts, lived since 1968 was designed by the architect Philip Johnson as a showcase for the Kreeger collection and cost $1.9 million to build.  Of Love and Luck
        "I never bought art as an investment," Mr. Kreeger once said. "I bought it for love and was lucky. Art that embodies the creative spirit of man transcends the value of money."
        Mr. Kreeger was the son of immigrants from Russia who owned a small grocery store in Highland Park, N.J. He worked his way through college and law school by playing the piano at summer resorts in the Adirondacks, and he graduated with high honors from Rutgers and from Harvard Law School, where he was editor of The Law Review.
        After a brief time in private practice in Newark, Mr. Kreeger joined the legal staff of the Department of Agriculture in the early years of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Presidency and later transferred to the Department of the Interior.  Forming a Group of Investors
        In 1941, he was appointed special assistant to the Attorney General and served in the Justice Department until 1946, when he returned to private practice in Washington. Two years later he formed a group of investors who bought into Geico, and in 1957 he gave up his law practice to become senior vice president and general counsel of the company and its affiliates.
        He was named president of Geico in 1964, and six years later he became chairman and chief executive officer. He retained those titles until he retired in 1974. He continued as chairman of the executive committee until 1979, when he was named honorary chairman.
        Mr. Kreeger was an accomplished amateur violinist who was often joined in playing chamber music at his home by performers including Isaac Stern, Pinchas Zukerman, the Tokyo String Quartet and the Cleveland Quartet. As president of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington from 1970 to 1978, he recruited as its concertmaster the Soviet cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, who later became the orchestra's music director.
        In 1980, Mr. Kreeger founded the Washington Opera, and he served as its first president and later as chairman. He also served on the boards of the Arena Stage, Dumbarton Oaks and the National Gallery. Two months ago, he was given the Medal of Arts Award in a ceremony at the White House.
        Sponsoring Art Competitions
        Mr. and Mrs. Kreeger devoted considerable time and money to developing artistic talent. They sponsored art competitions at several universities along with the Bach International Competitions. They donated the Kreeger Creativity awards to Catholic University.
        Mr. Kreeger was a trustee emeritus of American University and served on the boards of Georgetown University and the Peabody Institute of Music. He was a national vice president of the American Jewish Committee.
        He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Carol Ingall of Highland Park, Ill.; a son, Peter, of Potomac, Md., and nine grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 23, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Tuesday about David Lloyd Kreeger, an art collector and philanthropist, misidentified the post for which the Soviet cellist Mstislav Rostropovich was hired by the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington. It was music director. The obituary also misstated the year of the founding of the Washington Opera. It was 1956.
      