
        Dr. Robert Hofstadter, a Nobel laureate in physics in 1961 for pioneering research into the heart of the nuclear particles that form the basic building blocks of the universe, died Saturday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 75 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, a family representative said.
        The Royal Swedish Academy of Science honored the professor for research that led to the precise determination of the size and shape of the proton and the neutron, the minute fundamental particles that constitute the nuclei of atoms.
        The academy also hailed him for helping to provide the first "reasonably consistent" picture of the structure of the atomic nucleus, which contains more than 99 percent of the matter and energy of the universe.
        Dr. Hofstadter had taught at Stanford University from 1950 to 1985, when he retired as the Max H. Stein Professor Emeritus of Physics. He was director of Stanford's High Energy Physics Laboratory from 1967 to 1974.  Gamma Rays and the Heart
        The professor's unassuming, easygoing manner disguised a profound commitment to basic research. In retirement, he became increasingly interested in astronomy and contributed to construction of a gamma ray observatory that, after many postponements, is scheduled to be sent aloft in a space shuttle next spring.
        In recent years, Dr. Hofstadter also conducted research in coronary angiography, a technique to explore heart functions with radioactive substances as a benign alternative to catheters.
        Robert Hofstadter was born in Manhattan on Feb. 5, 1915, to Louis Hofstadter, a salesman, and the former Henrietta Koenigsberg. He attended public schools and City College of New York, where he won the Kenyon Prize in physics and mathematics, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was graduated magna cum laude with a B.S. degree in 1935.
        On fellowships, he earned master's and doctorate degrees in physics at Princeton and taught there and at City College. In World War II, he was a physicist at the National Bureau of Standards, where he helped develop the proximity fuse, a major anti-aircraft weapon that detonated a shell when it detected approaching objects by radar.  Measuring the Unseen
        After the war, Dr. Hofstadter taught at Princeton for four more years until he joined the Stanford faculty and plunged into research into the composition of the universe. In exhaustive steps over a decade, he and associates determined that the neutron and the proton have an average radius of 24 to 32 quadrillionths of an inch.
        They then directed a beam of electrons from a 220-foot linear accelerator and speeded them to energies of one billion electron volts at various nuclear targets. By studying the deflections of the electrons as they bounded off the targets, they obtained what they termed a consistent picture of the nuclei's structure.
        Among the professor's honors were a Townsend Harris medal from City College in 1961, the creation of the Robert Hofstadter Physics Laboratory at Brandeis University in 1968 and many fellowships and honorary degrees. He was a governor of the Israel Institute of Technology and the Weizmann Institute of Science and the author or editor of books and many papers. In free time, he enjoyed skiing, Stanford sports events and classical jazz.
        Surviving are his wife, Nancy; a son, Douglas of Bloomington, Ind.; two daughters, Laura of Menlo Park, Calif., and Mary of Santa Clara, Calif.; a brother, George of Bal Harbour Village, Fla.; a sister, Shirley of North Miami Beach, Fla., and two grandsons.
      