
        Anne Revere, an actress who won acclaim for her screen portrayals of wise, protective motherly characters until her career was cut short by the 1950's Communist blacklist, died yesterday at her home in Locust Valley, L.I. She was 87 years old.
        She died of pneumonia, Dr. Howard B. Gotlieb, the director of collections and curator of her archives at Boston University, said.
        The stately, spirited character actress won a 1945 Academy Award as the mother of Elizabeth Taylor in "National Velvet." Miss Revere was also nominated for supporting Oscars for playing the mothers of Jennifer Jones in "The Song of Bernadette" (1943) and of Gregory Peck in "Gentleman's Agreement" (1947).
        Miss Revere was also the understanding mother of John Garfield in "Body and Soul" (1947) and of Montgomery Clift in "A Place in the Sun" (1951). Her salt-of-the-earth motif was her straight hair carefully combed into a practical bun.
        From 1934 to 1951, she was much in demand, appearing in nearly three dozen films, including "The Howards of Virginia," "Old Acquaintance," "The Keys of the Kingdom," "Fallen Angel," "Dragonwyck" and "Forever Amber." But then she was blacklisted by the industry and barred from films for 20 years for refusing to testify about Communist links before the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
        The actress voluntarily resigned from the board of the Screen Actors Guild in 1951 because she believed her silence on Capitol Hill had barred her from making further films.  Back to the Stage
        "Nobody went to jail because they were Communists," she said in an interview in 1975. "They went to jail for contempt. But the awful thing about the whole bloody era was that whether you answered or didn't, cooperated or not, you were dead in the business."
        Miss Revere left Hollywood to seek roles on the stage, where she had trained, and starred in regional theaters and stock and occasionally on Broadway. She won a 1960 Tony Award for portraying a rigid spinster opposite Maureen Stapleton and Jason Robards in Lillian Hellman's drama "Toys in the Attic."
        Anne Revere was born in Manhattan on June 25, 1903. Her father, Clinton, was a stockbroker, and she grew up on the Upper West Side and in Westfield, N.J. She earned a Bachelor of Arts at Wellesley College in 1926 and studied at the American Laboratory School in New York City with Maria Ouspenskaya and Richard Boleslavsky.
        Miss Revere honed her craft in stock and regional theaters. Her first Broadway triumph was in Lillian Hellman's first play, the 1934 drama "The Children's Hour," as one of two ill-fated teachers at a girls' school falsely accused of lesbianism. The long-running play led to other leading stage roles and her Hollywood contract.
        Samuel Rosen, a stage director who was Miss Revere's husband of 49 years, died in 1984. She is survived by a sister, Winn Revere Smith, of Cross River, L.I.
      