
        Robert Cummings, who played in more than 100 films and starred as a swinging bachelor in the 1950's television comedy "The Bob Cummings Show," died Saturday at the age of 80.
        The actor, who had Parkinson's disease, died at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills of kidney failure and complications from pneumonia, said a hospital spokeswoman, Louella Benson.
        Most of his roles were light comedies but included some serious portrayals, as in "King's Row" and "Dial M for Murder," Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 thriller. Other film roles included "The Devil and Miss Jones" in 1941, "The Bride Wore Boots" in 1946 and "For Heaven's Sake" in 1950.
        He entered the burgeoning television industry in the 1950's, appearing in dramas and his own shows.
        Turned to Acting
        "The Bob Cummings Show" was probably the closest thing to a sex comedy on television at the time. On the program, which ran on NBC and CBS from 1955 to 1959, he played Bob Collins, a photographer who squired beautiful models around town. The series was known as "Love That Bob" in syndication.
        In 1954, he won an Emmy as best actor for "Twelve Angry Men."
        Born in Joplin, Mo., Mr. Cummings studied engineering and business before turning to the theater to earn money for his family during the Depression. He worked as a straight man for Milton Berle and starred with Fanny Brice in "The Ziegfeld Follies." Mr. Cummings got his first film role in 1935 playing a tall Texan opposite Margaret Sullavan in "So Red the Rose."
        After retiring from show business, Mr. Cummings became an ardent believer in the power of health food and astrology. Preserving his youthful looks even into his later years, Mr. Cummings wrote a book on nutrition, "How To Stay Young and Vital."
        The actor is survived by his fifth wife, Janie, whom he married in 1989. He had seven children.
        Correction:  December 4, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary by The Associated Press in late editions yesterday about the actor Robert Cummings misstated his age and the date of his death. He was 82; he died on Sunday,not Saturday. A more detailed obituary appears today on page B20.
      