
        Cecil Effinger, a composer who was best known for his choral music and the inventor of a stopwatch that determined tempos and a typewriter for musical notation, died on Saturday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 76 years old.
        His wife, Corinne Lindberg Carlson Effinger, said he died of heart failure.
        Mr. Effinger was born in Colorado Springs on July 22, 1914, and was associated with colleges and orchestras in Colorado for virtually his entire professional life. But his inventively harmonized music traveled widely. Dark, evocative works like the Four Pastorales (1962) became popular staples of the university choir repertory, and several of his sacred settings, including the "St. Luke Christmas Story" (1953) and the Cantata for Easter (1971) are frequently sung by church choirs.
        Besides his dozens of choral pieces, Mr. Effinger's more than 125 works include 5 symphonies, 3 operas and works for chamber ensembles of all kinds.
        Mr. Effinger's father, Stanley S. Effinger, was a composer and teacher. As a child, Mr. Effinger studied the violin and the oboe, and although his bachelor's degree from Colorado College was in mathematics, composition became a consuming interest for him during his college years. He studied privately with Bernard Wagenaar in Colorado in 1937, and with Nadia Boulanger at the American Conservatory, in Fontainebleau, France. He later taught composition at the American University in Biarritz.
        He taught composition and theory at Colorado College and the Colorado School for the Blind in the 1930's and early 40's, and he was an oboist in the Colorado Springs Symphony Orchestra from 1932 to 1941. After World War II, he returned to Colorado College, and was the music editor of The Denver Post from 1946 to 1948. In 1948, Mr. Effinger became the chairman of the composition and theory department at the University of Colorado, in Boulder. He retired in 1981, but remained the university's composer in residence until 1984 and a continued as a member of its advisory board.
        In his earliest works, Mr. Effinger was concerned with combining 18th-century polyphony with contemporary harmonic styles. He described his harmonic language as conservative, and said that he had little use for 12-tone music. But he was not averse to dissonance, which he used effectively to give his text settings tension and depth.
        Of Mr. Effinger's inventions, the one that is the most widely used is the tempo watch he developed in 1969. Essentially a stopwatch, it allows musicians to determine the tempo of a performance. The Musicwriter, or musical typewriter, has been marketed around the world since 1954. And in 1974, Mr. Effinger produced an open-ended typewriter to be used for architectural drawings and other large documents.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Baker of Kennebunkport, Me.; a son, Gove, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.; and three stepdaughters: Lisa Busch of Smith River, Calif., Sonja Carlson of Boulder, and Ellen Smith of Hollywood Hills, Calif.
      