
        John Alexander, an American tenor admired for his reliable artistry and vocal longevity, died on Saturday night in Meridian, Miss. He was 67 years old and lived in Cincinnati.
        Mr. Alexander collapsed on Saturday evening at the Temple Theater in Meridian, the city where he was born. He was taken to Jeff Anderson Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead of a heart attack, said the Lauderdale County medical examiner, Marl Cobler.
        Although Mr. Alexander had suffered from heart problems for a number of years, he was active at the Metropolitan Opera as late as 1987.
        He had a long career in New York at the New York City Opera and the Met, where he sang for 25 years. Early on, he eschewed the chance for an international career in favor of family life on Long Island. As a young man he also curbed his ambition toward dramatic roles and make himself into a lyric tenor.
        That decision, plus musicality and intelligence, accounted in large part for Mr. Alexander's success at an age when most singers have long since ceased to be active. He was known for his Mozart roles -- Belmonte in "The Abduction From the Seraglio" and Ferrando in "Cosi Fan Tutte" in particular -- and as a Donizetti bel canto tenor. He had success at both New York houses as Bacchus in Strauss's "Ariadne auf Naxos" and at the Met as Walther in Wagner's "Meistersinger."
        Three seasons ago, Will Crutchfield in The New York Times wrote of Mr. Alexander's "bright, firmly focused" voice as Bacchus, also complaining that he deserved better casting than the role of "all-purpose backup man" to which the Met had assigned him in recent years.
        Modest, amiable and fond of playing poker, Mr. Alexander remained a singer at his church in Manhasset, L.I., 20 years after he made his breakthrough at the Met. He was born and reared in Mississippi and was trained as a singer at the University of Cincinnati's College-Conservatory of Music, where he later taught. He moved to New York in 1951 and made his debut at City Opera five years later. He made his Met debut in 1961 as Ferrando in "Cosi Fan Tutte."
        Mr. Alexander is survived by his wife, Sue, of Cincinnati, and a daughter, Cindy, of Chicago.
      