
        Richard Dunne, the former executive director of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, New York City's largest private provider of AIDS services, died yesterday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence, R.I., while on a family visit. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of AIDS-related causes, his family said.
        Mr. Dunne gave up the directorship of the organization on Sept. 1, 1989, after having held it since 1985. Under his leadership, the agency's staff grew to 120 from 17 and its budget increased to $11 million from $800,000.
        The organization also claims a volunteer corps of 1,800, up from 500 in 1985, and puts the number of AIDS sufferers it has served at 8,000, compared with 2,500 when Mr. Dunne took over. He himself joined the organization as a volunteer worker in 1983.
        Adapted New Approaches
        Under his guidance the organization developed new approaches to adapt to the changing nature and scope of the epidemic. It beganseveral programs to lobby city, state and Federal agencies; to inform about experimental therapies and to promote these therapies; to advise employers and mental-health professionals about AIDS, and to provide recreational services to improve victims' morale.
        One of his final acts at the organization came in mid-August with his announcement that the agency, reversing a long-held position, was endorsing widespread voluntary testing for the virus that causes AIDS. It thus joined other former critics of testing who decided that new anti-AIDS drugs could keep a victim alive longer, especially if the virus was detected early.
        The agency's director of communications, Geoffrey Knox, said Mr. Dunne had remained active as an adviser to the agency, to other AIDS organizations and to New York City's Health Department. From 1987 until earlier this year, he also served as chairman of the National AIDS Network in Washington.
        Mr. Dunne was born in Hartford and grew up in Rhode Island. He earned a bachelor of science degree in 1966 at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a master in public administration degree at New York University in 1972. In between, he served in Italy as a lieutenant in the Army.
        Municipal Jobs
        He worked for the city as a budget officer in the Finance Administration from 1972 to 1977 and as a deputy assistant commissioner in the Human Resources Administration from 1977 to 1984.
        Mr. Dunne is survived by his mother, Lucy Dunne; a sister, Susan Gladding, both of Warwick, R.I., and a brother, Brian, of Truro, Mass.
        A memorial service is scheduled for St. Gregory's Church in Warwick, R.I., next Saturday at 11 A.M. A memorial service in New York City is to be held at a future date.
        Correction:  December 31, 1990, Monday
        An obituary in late editions yesterday about Richard Dunne, a former executive director of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, omitted a survivor. His brother Michael lives in Cranston, R.I. The obituary is reprinted today on page 24.
      