
        Richard Dunne, former executive director of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, the largest private provider of AIDS services in New York, died on Saturday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence on a family visit. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of AIDS-related causes, his family said.
        Mr. Dunne gave up the directorship of the organization on Sept. 1, 1989, after having held it since 1985. Under his leadership, the staff grew, to 120 from 17, and its budget to $11 million from $800,000.
        The organization also said it had 1,800 volunteers, up from 500 in 1985, and put the number of AIDS sufferers it had served at 8,000, compared with 2,500 when Mr. Dunne took over. He joined the group as a volunteer in 1983.  Adapted New Approaches
        Under his guidance the organization adapted to the changes in the epidemic. It began to lobby city, state and Federal agencies; to provide information about experimental therapies and promote them, to advise employers and mental-health workers about AIDS, and to provide recreation to improve patients' morale.
        In mid-August, Mr. Dunne announced that the agency, reversing a long-held position, was endorsing widespread voluntary testing for the virus that causes AIDS. The group joined other former critics of testing who decided that new anti-AIDS drugs could keep a victim alive longer, especially if the virus was detected early.
        A spokesman for the organization, Geoffrey Knox, said Mr. Dunne had remained active as an adviser to the agency, to other AIDS organizations and the City Health Department. From 1987 until this year, he was also chairman of the National AIDS Network in Washington, of which he was a co-founder.
        Mr. Dunne was born in Hartford and grew up in Rhode Island. He earned a B.S. in 1966 at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service and a master's in public administration at New York University in 1972. In between, he served in Italy as a lieutenant in the Army.
        He was a budget officer in the City Finance Administration from 1972 to 1977 and a deputy assistant commissioner in the Human Resources Administration from 1977 to 1984.
        Surviving are his mother, Lucy Dunne; a sister, Susan Gladding, both of Warwick, R.I., and two brothers, Michael, of Cranston, R.I., and Brian, of Truro, Mass.
        A funeral Mass is scheduled for Saturday at 11 A.M. in St. Gregory's Church in Warwick. A memorial in New York City is to be announced.
      