
        Reinaldo Arenas, a novelist who spent several years in prison in Cuba under Fidel Castro, committed suicide on Friday in his apartment in Manhattan, the police said. The 47-year-old author was suffering from AIDS, his literary agent, Thomas Colchie, said.
        Mr. Colchie learned of the death of Mr. Arenas when he tried to reach the author to tell him that a fellow Cuban who admired his work had offered to take him to Florida for his remaining days. "Reinaldo told me he did not want to go back into the hospital; he wanted to spend his last days at the beach," Mr. Colchie said. "When I tried to tell him that his wish had been granted, it was too late."
        After a decade of struggling to become a successful writer in the United States, to which he escaped during the Mariel exodus from Cuba in 1980, Mr. Arenas at his death had five novels under contract as well as a recently completed autobiography.
        Mr. Arenas's works were not always easy going, leading one reviewer to say they were "in the sardonic nightmare tradition" of Francisco Gomez de Quevedo y Villegas, the picaresque 17th-century Spanish novelist, and of Goya, whose "black paintings" were of macabre subjects. Reviewing the novel "Farewell to the Sea" in The New York Times, Jay Cantor wrote: "Mr. Arenas is not interested in ordinary realistic drama. He wants to give the reader the secret history of the emotions, the sustaining victories of pleasure and the small dishonesties that callous the soul." Teen-Age Revolutionary
        Born in the rural Oriente province of Cuba on July 16, 1943, Mr. Arenas began writing as a child. He joined Castro's revolution as a teen-ager and moved to Havana in 1961. He was a researcher in the Jose Marti National Library from 1963 to 1968.
        In 1965, his novel "Singing From the Well," was awarded first honorable mention by a committee of judges headed by Alejo Carpentier, the diplomat and Cuba's most famous contemporary novelist. The book won the Prix Medici in France for the best foreign novel of 1969 but was never reprinted in his homeland because Mr. Arenas, like other homosexuals, had become the object of the Castro regime's disfavor.
        His second novel, published here in the late 1960's by Harper & Row under the title "Hallucinations," was never published in Cuba.
        In his autobiography, Mr. Arenas writes that in 1970 he was officially branded a "social misfit" and sentenced to a labor camp to cut sugar cane. There he wrote "El Central," a poem about a sugar mill that represented the history of slavery and forced labor in Cuba.
        "El Central" was published here by Avon Books in 1984, which also reprinted "Hallucinations" in a new translation and under a new title, "The Ill-Fated Peregrinations of Fray Servando" (1987). Avon also published another novel by Mr. Arenas, "The Graveyard of the Angels" (1987).  Virtual Poverty in U.S.
        Because Mr. Arenas's writing was smuggled out of Cuba and published abroad, the author was confined to El Morro prison from 1974 to 1976, accused of being a counterrevolutionary.
        After arriving in the United States, Mr. Arenas lived in virtual poverty for several years; at his death he lived in a small apartment on the sixth floor of a walkup in the "Hell's Kitchen" section of the West Side.
        But his fortunes improved somewhat when "Farewell to the Sea," a novel that he wrote in prison and then rewrote after it had been confiscated, was published in the United States by Penguin in 1985. That was the first of a quintet titled "Pentagonia," the second volume of which, "The Palace of the White Skunks," is to be published next month by Viking. Viking has two other titles from the quintet under contract, as well as the autobiography, "Before Night Falls." The other book in the quintet, "Singing From the Well," was published by Viking in 1987.
        Grove Weidenfeld, which published two of Mr. Arenas's novellas last year under the title of "Old Rosa," has scheduled another of his novels, "The Doorman," for publication next spring. In addition, it recently signed up yet another of his novels, "Journey to Havana," plus a trilogy that includes "El Central."
        Mr. Arenas is survived by his mother, who lives in Cuba.
      