
        Joseph M. Long, the chairman and co-founder of Longs Drug Stores and a prominent philanthropist, died Thursday at the John Muir Medical Center in Walnut Creek, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 78 years old and lived in nearby Danville.
        He died of a brain hemorrhage, a company spokesman said.
        With his brother Thomas, Mr. Long founded the retail drug company in Oakland, Calif., in 1938. The Longs chain, now based in Walnut Creek, employs 14,000 people in 257 retail drug stores in six Western states and did $2 billion in business last year.
        Several years ago, Mr. Long's son Robert was named president and chief executive officer of the company, but the father continued to oversee operations. Thomas Long is retired but continues as a member of the board.
        Joseph Long was also a former director of Safeway Stores, Western Department Stores, Cutter Laboratories and several other companies.  Education and Environment
        An advocate of educational and environmental causes, Mr. Long donated millions of dollars to the University of California and wildlife institutions. Among his contributions was $3.2 million to the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center.
        He also established the Foundation for Excellence at the School of Pharmacy at the University of California at San Francisco and set up a marine laboratory at the University of California at Santa Cruz.
        Mr. Long served as chairman and co-founder of the California State Parks Foundation and was co-founder and president of the California Waterfowl Association.
        A native of Covelo, Calif., he graduated in 1933 from the University of California at Berkeley and stayed on for three years of graduate studies in economics and public administration.
        He is survived by two sons: Robert M. of Lafayette, Calif., and Kirk, who lives in Spain; two daughters, Nancy Fink of Berkeley and Marion Souyoultzis of Piedmont, Calif.; two brothers, Thomas J. of Alamo and Ralph of Millbrae, Calif.; two sisters, Sarah Sweeney of El Sobrante, Calif., and Leta Lowry of Walnut Creek, and nine grandchildren.
      