
        Frank P. Bourgin, a former Federal official whose received his doctoral degree in 1988, 44 years after it had been denied, died Wednesday at Chevy Chase House, a retirement home in Washington. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Bourgin died of pancreatic cancer, his brother, Simon, of Washington, said.
        In 1944 Mr. Bourgin's academic career at the University of Chicago was interrupted when his doctoral dissertation was rejected by a faculty committee. The dissertation rebutted the idea that President Franklin D. Roosevelt's social reform programs were a departure from the intentions of the founding fathers. Mr. Bourgin argued that the framers of the Constitution were committed to government intervention for development, a view that other historians have since come to share.
        Abandoning his academic career in political science, Mr. Bourgin became wartime historian for the Army quartermaster office in Chicago, and operated a chain of clothing stores in northern Minnesota. In 1963 he joined the Office of Emergency Management, based in Battle Creek, Mich. From 1970 until his retirement in 1983 Mr. Bourgin was program officer in the Washington office, responsible for preparing emergency plans.  High Praise From Schlesinger
        In 1985, with the approach of the Constitution's Bicentennial, he brought his thesis to the attention of Arthur Schlesinger Jr., the historian. Mr. Schlesinger assured him that he was "a true pioneer in the reconstruction of the early economic policy of the republic," and asked the University of Chicago to reconsider his case.
        "Even after 45 years," Mr. Schlesinger wrote, his thesis makes "a fresh contribution to the political and economic history of the early republic."
        In June 1988, the University of Chicago granted Mr. Bourgin, then 77 years old. his Ph.D. His thesis was published, to warm reviews, as "The Great Challenge: The Myth of Laissez Faire in the Early Years of the Republic" (1989; George Braziller).
        Besides his brother, he is survived by two daughters, Marilyn Israel of Minneapolis, and Claudia Sandonato of Southfield, Mich.; and five grandchildren.
      