
        Friedrich Durrenmatt, the Swiss playwright, novelist and essayist who wrote the plays "The Visit" and "The Physicist," died yesterday at his home in Neuchatel in western Switzerland. He was 69 years old.
        He had diabetes and had had several heart attacks, the Zurich publishing house Diogenes Verlag said.
        In addition to stage works, Mr. Durrenmatt's writings included novels, stories, essays, criticism and radio and film scripts. He wrote in German, and his work was translated into more than 50 languages. He also painted, and his work received much attention at several exhibitions.
        The critic and biographer Ernst Pawel wrote in 1989 in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Durrenmatt always took "a glum view not only of his fellow Swiss but also of the world at large, and much of his prolific output sounds apocalyptic notes modulated by elegant irony."
        "In Mr. Durrenmatt's universe," Mr. Pawel continued, "God is not dead but has withdrawn from mankind, and His supreme indifference is manifest in the universal absence of justice."
        In a 1970 interview with The Christian Science Monitor, Mr. Durrenmatt said that the most important task of the contemporary theater was to educate the playgoer: "To show him on the stage his foolishness, blindness, his lack of judgment. He himself must see in the heroes of the play that his own behavior is often wrong."
        More Than Amusement
        Mr. Durrenmatt was best known for "The Visit." When the curtain went up at its Broadway opening in 1958, in the new Lunt-Fontanne Theater, the Times critic Brooks Atkinson said, he thought it was going to be a light European entertainment. After all, Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne were the stars.
        But no, the play, staged by Peter Brook, turned out to be a "bold, grisly drama of negativism," as Mr. Atkinson wrote in his glowing review.
        Summing up the plot, he wrote, "Gullen, a poverty-stricken European town, is about to welcome its richest emigree -- Claire Zachanassian," and everyone hopes she will generously endow the town.
        "She proposes to give Gullen one billion marks on one condition: that they murder their fellow townsman, Anton Schill," Mr. Atkinson went on. "When she was a girl in Gullen he had seduced her and also denied the paternity of their child. All she asks now is justice." A Ghoulish Climax
        At first the townspeople -- and the audience -- reject that notion, Mr. Atkinson wrote, "but not Herr Durrenmatt. He means it, both as an observer of life and as a dramatic draftsman. The second half of 'The Visit' consists of a slow, macabre pressing on to a ghoulish climax. Everything has its price. Put the price high enough and society can find a way to make murder moral."
        The playwright, Mr. Atkinson wrote, "is a sufficiently powerful dramatist to make an unpalatable theme acceptable. He writes with cold fury when he gets to the core of his theme."
        A 1964 film version, directed by Bernhard Wicki and presented by 20th Century-Fox, was less successful.
        Late in 1964, Roger L. Stevens produced the original Broadway version of "The Physicists," also staged by Mr. Brook.
        "Have the warnings of the atomic scientists in their bulletins and speeches become too commonplace for notice?" wrote the Times critic Howard Taubman in his admiring but mixed review. "Listen to the bitter thesis in Friedrich Durrenmatt's unsparing parable on the pass to which this radioactive planet has been brought."
        "He imagines a madhouse in which three physicists occupy adjoining padded cells," the critic went on. "They are so dangerous to those they love that they finally are isolated from all other inmates."  The Son of a Minister
        It was in an infinitely less bleak setting, the small town of Konolfingen -- inclined to making biscuits, not bombs -- that Friedrich Durrenmatt was born on Jan. 5, 1921, the son of Reinhold Durrenmatt, a Protestant minister, and the former Hulda Zimmermann. After secondary schooling in Bern and studies at the universities of Bern and Zurich, he became a full-time writer in 1947.
        "The Visit" won the New York Drama Critics Award as the best foreign play in 1958, and Mr. Durrenmatt won numerous European prizes and five honorary doctorates.
        His film work included the screenplay for the "End of the Game" (1976), which he co-wrote with Maximilian Schell.
        In 1985, the novel "Justice," a reworking of a 1957 manuscript, drew ire for its scathing satire on Swiss society.
        Among his plays that were given American productions are "Fools Are Passing Through," "An Angel Comes to Babylon" and "Play Strindberg." His books include "Once a Greek . . ." (1965), "The Assignment" (1988) and "The Execution of Justice" (1989).
        Mr. Durrenmatt's first wife, the former Lotti Geissler, died in 1983 after 37 years of marriage and three children. In 1984 he was married to Charlotte Kerr, who survives him.
      