
        Armand Hammer, the chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation who long sought peace between the United States and the Soviet Union and financed research for a cancer cure, died at his home in Los Angeles Monday night. He was 92 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed but associates said he had been suffering from kidney problems. Frank Ashley, a spokesman for Occidental, said the death occurred after "a brief illness."
        Dr. Hammer, who at one time or another headed successful businesses in fields ranging from art to bourbon whisky, built and led Occidental for 33 years. Ray R. Irani, the company's president and chief operating officer, immediately succeeded Dr. Hammer as chairman and chief executive officer.
        Dr. Hammer, who was trained as a physician but never set up a medical practice, was also a noted philanthropist and art collector who hobnobbed with the high and mighty, including members of the British royal family and generations of Soviet leaders.
        President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union sent condolences to the Hammer family and said in a statement that Dr. Hammer helped forge Soviet-American relations. He "was associated with one of the most remarkable pages of our relationship," Mr. Gorbachev added. "He met with Lenin and was very close in many ways to the Soviet Union, and to Russia."
        Experts in different fields that Dr. Hammer was active in gave varying appraisals of him in interviews yesterday.
        Daniel Yergin, an author and the president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. said Dr. Hammer's life straddled "the whole history" of the 20th century. "He was virtually the only one who could tell Mikhail Gorbachev firsthand what Lenin was like, Gorbachev having been born" seven years after Lenin died.  'A Very Minor Figure' In U.S.-Soviet Relations
        Richard Pipes, the Baird Professor of History at Harvard and a specialist in modern Russian history, said that, "in terms of U.S.S.R. internal developments and U.S.-Soviet relations, he was a very minor figure."
        "I don't think he was a man who in any way sympathized with the regime," Mr. Pipes added. "He basically entered into relations with the Soviet Government in the early period and again later purely for making a profit and enhancing his stature."
        Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic of The New York Times, said Dr. Hammer "was as aggressive and wily in his dealings in the art world as he seems to have been in other aspects of his life."
        "He was a dealer, collector and impresario of art," Mr. Kimmelman added, "but it's not clear whether in the end he served his own interests best by building a monument to his own collection in the form of the Armand Hammer museum in Los Angeles instead of donating the works to another museum that could have edited the wheat from the chaff and therefore made the best case for Hammer's taste."
        Dr. Hammer bequeathed his art collection to the new museum, which was opened in Los Angeles on Nov. 28 in a zebra-striped building that adjoins the headquarters of Occidental.
        Last summer, the heirs of Dr. Hammer's late wife, Frances, who died last year at 87, filed a lawsuit contending that Dr. Hammer had tricked her into signing away her part of their collection, valued at $400 million. Dr. Hammer called the charges scurrilous. From a Bar Mitzvah To a Memorial Service
        Dr. Hammer had planned to celebrate his own belated bar mitzvah last night, like much of what he did, in public. Dr. Hammer, who was raised in a non-observant family, planned to link the ceremony to a fund-raising dinner at the Beverly Hilton Hotel. The dinner was to benefit two organizations, the Pacific Jewish Center and the Jerusalem College of Technology.
        The ceremony was changed into a memorial service. "We're going to go ahead with the event," a spokesman, Howard Bragman, said. "It's really the wish of Dr. Hammer that this event continue because it was important to him."
        Funeral arrangements were pending. Dr. Hammer will be entombed in the private Hammer family mausoleum at Westwood Village Cemetery, just a few hundred yards from Occidental's headquarters.
        Over the years, Dr. Hammer was variously president and chairman of the Mutual Broadcasting System and president of such diverse companies as the J. W. Dant Distilling Company and the A. Hammer Pencil Company of New York, London and Moscow. "I am first and foremost a catalyst, I bring people and situations together," Dr. Hammer once said in discussing his long business career.
        A short and forceful man with a quick smile and appraising eyes, he became involved in American-Soviet trade very early, in 1921, and maintained ties with the Soviet Union for more than 60 years, with a hiatus during Stalin's ascendancy.
        Dr. Hammer wrote in 1985 that his involvement with the Soviet Union reflected a belief "that nuclear war must be avoided and that the chances for peace can best be preserved by building the bonds of culture and commerce."  Small and Struggling Occidental Transformed
        In the mid-1950's, already a multimillionaire, he invested in Occidental, then a small and struggling company. By 1986, after he had headed it for 29 years, he could boast that it had become "the eighth-biggest energy concern in the United States and the 12th-biggest industrial corporation," with gross revenues of about $16 billion that year.
        As a businessman Dr. Hammer was inventive, daring and energetic. His talents brought him so much money that he said he could not count it, and he prolonged his business career into his 90's. "I love business," he once said. "I love my work. I can't wait to start a new day."
        Although he profited spectacularly from his dealings with the Soviet Union, his motives were sometimes questioned. He wrote in his best-selling autobiography, "Hammer," that his Russian-born father, Julius Hammer, was recruited, while a Connecticut steelworker, into the Socialist Labor Party. It was the leading Marxist party in the United States in the last quarter of the 19th century and a forerunner of the American Communist Party, of which, Dr. Hammer wrote, his father was a founding member in 1919.
        Some people contended that Dr. Hammer's early success in trading with the Soviet Union was nourished by Julius Hammer's connections in the Moscow Government. There were also insinuations that Dr. Hammer shared his father's political sympathies, a view he denied.
        Nonetheless, Dr. Hammer sometimes expressed views of the Soviet Union that coming from an American millionaire seemed strikingly uncritical. In an article on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times in 1987, he and a co-author wrote that, "to some extent, the Soviet Union lacks the delicate balance present in our society between technological achievements and human values."
        In "Hammer," which came out in 1987, Dr. Hammer wrote that he had met with Leonid Brezhnev, the Soviet leader, many times, finding him "a man of great humanism and vast warmth."
        Appraising the book in The New York Times Book Review, Ted Morgan contended that Dr. Hammer, "in order to maintain his 'most favored person' position with the Russians, becomes disturbingly sycophantic." 'Enthusiastic Amateur' On International Ties
        Mr. Morgan also contended that "Dr. Hammer presents himself as the architect of world peace, instrumental in arranging the 1985 Geneva summit between Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Ronald Reagan" while "in fact, he is more like an enthusiastic amateur trying to break into the major leagues, a George Plimpton of international relations."
        Dr. Hammer was also involved in United States politics. A lifelong Democrat, he was convicted in 1976 of making illegal campaign contributions totaling $54,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 re-election campaign, fined $3,000 and put on one year's probation. Years later Dr. Hammer contended that he should not have pleaded guilty and that he had been the victim of misdeeds by an associate. He was pardoned by President Bush in August 1989.
        Despite the controversy Dr. Hammer sometimes aroused, he retained the friendship and esteem of many famous people. Two former Presidents, Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter, endorsed his autobiography. Mr. Ford said Mr. Hammer was "a unique individual in the business and geopolitical world." Mr. Carter said he had "a unique standing in both the United States and the Soviet Union."
        Over the years, Dr. Hammer's various holdings, interests and possessions were staggeringly diverse. There was his own plane, a Boeing 727, in addition to art galleries: Hammer Galleries Inc. and Knoedler & Company, in New York City. He had on his desk in Los Angeles inscribed pictures of important people from Lenin to President Reagan. For a while, he owned Campobello Island, the Roosevelt family's retreat; he gave it to the United States and Canada in 1962 as an international park. Leonardo Manuscript And Prize Cattle Bought
        His purchases included champion Aberdeen Angus cattle and a costly Leonardo da Vinci manuscript, as well as the Hooker Chemical Company. During the nine years he spent in the Soviet Union, beginning in 1921, he invested in art works that he called treasures of the Romanovs, the family of the Czars of Russia from 1613 until the revolution in 1917.
        Dr. Hammer gave away a great deal of the money that he made. "I have a seven-figure income and give away 90 percent of it," he said in 1980. He headed the Armand Hammer Foundation, which gave millions of dollars a year to charitable causes.
        Some instances of his largesse were the $5 million that he gave to Columbia University in 1977; the 1,000 lithographs by Daumier that he gave to the Corcoran Gallery of Art in 1983, and the gift of $1 million to the Metropolitan Museum that was announced in 1986. Its purpose was to help renovate its arms and armor galleries at the museum. In recognition of his patronage of the arts, Dr. Hammer was chosen in 1987 to receive a National Medal for the Arts.
        In 1988 he announced plans to build a $30 million cultural center and museum in Los Angeles for his art collections. The New York Times critic, John Russell, wrote at the time that "the collections are particularly strong in European Old Master paintings and drawings. Among the masters represented are Raphael, Correggio, Ingres, Rubens, Rembrandt, Watteau, Fragonard, Tiepolo, Boucher, Cezanne, Gauguin, Renoir and van Gogh."
        Mr. Russell said Dr. Hammer's $250 million valuation of the collections was conservative.
        Dr. Hammer also had what Mr. Russell called a remarkable collection of European Old Master drawings, which he gave to the National Gallery of Art in Washington.  Praise and Misgivings On Cancer Research Aid
        That same year Dr. Hammer initiated an ambitious four-year campaign to raise $500 million from private sources for cancer research. The drive officially got under way in October 1988, but in its first few weeks only about $13 million in private funds was donated. Dr. Hammer's role in the campaign stirred much praise and some misgivings. Some cancer researchers and specialists voiced concern that it might lead to too much money being put into research involving the body's immune defense system, a field in which he was particularly interested.
        Dr. Hammer was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on May 21, 1898, the son of Julius Hammer and Rose Robinson Hammer. In "Hammer," Dr. Hammer wrote that his father named him Armand "after Armand Duval, the romantic hero in Dumas's 'La Dame aux Camelias,' although others suggested he obviously had in mind the symbol of the Socialist Labor Party -- an arm and a hammer."
        Dr. Hammer's business career began when he was a medical student at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. In "Hammer," he wrote that his father, who had become a physician and a pharmaceuticals manufacturer, was in poor health and called on him to take over his business. The young Hammer did so and, while continuing his studies, prospered mightily. "Average income in the United States in 1919 was about $625 a year," he wrote, while "my personal income was over $1 million net." Starvation, Not Typhus, Soviet Problem in 20's
        When he graduated from medical school in 1921, he had six months to wait before beginning his internship. But other events intervened. There was a typhus epidemic, along with other problems, in the Soviet Union at the time, four years after the revolution, and he decided to go there, thinking he would work as a doctor. When he arrived, he found that the major problem was starvation, not typhus. Then, he wrote, "there came to me the single proposition which most dramatically changed my life" -- the idea, which he swiftly acted on, of trading American grain for furs and other goods from the Soviet Union.
        Before long, Dr. Hammer attracted the attention of Lenin, who needed foreign investment and who gave the young American a concession for asbestos in the Urals. Dr. Hammer wrote in "Hammer" that the concession was not as successful as he himself had hoped, but it was the start of a profitable trading relationship. He soon became the representative of three dozen American companies.
        In 1925, he asked for a pencil concession. He received it, and with the aid of experts and technology from Germany, he produced $2.5 million worth of pencils in his first year. By 1930, he was employing 1,000 workers and producing nearly 500,000 pencils a day.
        But Stalin came into power, and, he wrote, it was clear "that Stalin was not a man with whom you could do business." Mainly for that reason, he wrote, he left the Soviet Union.
        In the decades that followed, Dr. Hammer made money in a variety of fields, including the sale of art that he had acquired in the Soviet Union, the production of beer and whisky barrels and the operation of a number of distilleries. After greatly expanding sales at J. W. Dant Bonded Bourbon, he sold the distillery for $6.5 million and moved to California in 1955, thinking he would retire.  Bored by Life of Leisure, Excited by Oil Business
        But unlimited leisure bored him, and he began investing in Occidental, which then had assets of less than $100,000. He found the oil business, he wrote years later, "more exciting, more interesting, more complex, riskier and more rewarding than any other business I had encountered."
        In the late 1950's, he also invested in the Mutual Broadcasting System, and he ran that company for a time himself. But he sold out, for a profit of $1.3 million, he later recalled, partly because he was "much more excited about Occidental."
        As chairman and chief executive of Occidental, he hired oil-industry experts, much as he had hired pencil-making experts 30 years before. The company grew, and by 1967 its assets amounted to more than $1 billion.
        In 1966, after years of intricate negotiations, Occidental was awarded two oil concessions in Libya. Within two years it was exporting more than 200,000 barrels of oil a day.
        In 1973, Dr. Hammer's luck seemed to turn sour. Libya's radical new Government put pressure on Occidental, by then the country's largest single oil producer, and later that year it turned over 51 percent of the company to the Government for $135 million. Occidental also agreed to higher taxes and a 30 percent price increase.
        The move by Occidental, which soon led to similar accommodations by other oil producers in Libya, has been described as changing the world economy. It was the first time that an oil-producing country had dictated oil prices, and it set the stage for the dramatic increase in influence of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Nevertheless, Occidental continued to prosper, moving into oil production in Peru and the North Sea, among other areas. Free-Wheeling Style Brings Business Fights
        In the 1970's, Dr. Hammer's free-wheeling business style brought him different kinds of trouble. A successful battle by the Mead Corporation, an Ohio-based forest products company, to resist a takeover by Occidental turned up information that prompted Federal and state investigations into the activities of Dr. Hammer and Occidental.
        According to people close to the takeover attempt, Occidental abandoned the move after investigators began looking into Dr. Hammer's art dealings. One allegation that was bruited about, although he contended it was only "a lot of gossip," was that he had made an improper payment of $100,000 in the early 1970's to the Soviet Minister of Culture, Yekaterina A. Furtseva, to facilitate an art exchange.
        His involvement with the Soviet Union continued into the 1980's. After the nuclear power plant leak in 1986 at Chernobyl, he dispatched an international group of physicians to deliver medicine and medical care. In that same year, after he had conferred with Mr. Gorbachev, works of art that he had collected went on display in Soviet cities.
        Also in 1986, the Soviet authorities permitted Dr. Hammer to take an ailing Jewish scientist, David Goldfarb, from a hospital in Moscow and fly him and his wife to the United States.
        Even in his 90's Dr. Hammer remained prominent in Occidental's management and continued to personify the company. Through the decades, he was also variously a director of numerous organizations and business concerns, including banks and companies in the petroleum industry and other fields. Bids Made to Acquire Arm & Hammer Brand
        In 1986 he became affiliated with the Church & Dwight Company, which makes Arm & Hammer, the baking soda brand, when Occidental bought a stake in the company. It was not the first time Dr. Hammer had sought the company. He once told an interviewer that he was often asked if he owned Arm & Hammer. "A few years ago," he said, "I offered to buy it so I could say yes. But the owners didn't want to sell."
        It was announced in 1987 that Dr. Hammer was donating a substantial collection of his personal papers, including documents involving Soviet leaders, to the Library of Congress.
        He was awarded a Soviet decoration, the Order of Friendship Among Peoples, and others from several other nations.
        Dr. Hammer was married three times, the first time in 1927 to a Russian singer, Olga von Root, by whom he had a son, his only child, Julian. The marriage ended in divorce, as did his second marriage, to Angela Carey Zevely in 1934. In 1956, he married Frances Barrett, a painter, of Beverly Hills, Calif. Mrs. Hammer, who often accompanied her husband on international business trips, died in December 1989, from pneumonia, following surgery for a broken hip.
        In addition to his son, Julian, he is survived by a grandson, Michael A. Hammer; a granddaughter, Casey Hammer, and two great-grandchildren.
      