
        William Hall Wendel, the retired president of the Carborundum Company and the Kennecott Copper Corporation, died on Monday at his winter home in Savannah, Ga. He was 76 years old and lived in Savannah and Buffalo.
        He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Wendel joined Carborundum as an assistant to the president in 1947 after serving with the Army and Navy Munitions Board, the War Productions Board and as an assistant to the president of United Engineering Company.
        In 1948 he was promoted to manager of the coated products division. He was named executive vice president in 1959 and president in 1962, and directed the company through its greatest period of growth, including 10 major acquisitions.
        In 1977 Carborundum was sold to the Kennecott Copper Corporation for about $560 million, and Mr. Wendel became president of Kennecott, which has since been acquired by Standard Oil (Ohio). He stepped down in 1980. In retirement, he served for five years as chairman of Polaris Industries, a Minneapolis company he and others acquired. It manufactures all-terrain vehicles and other transportation equipment. Promoted Niagara Area
        Mr. Wendel was a leading spokesman for the economic, cultural and social concerns in the Buffalo-Niagara Falls area. He helped found the Society for the Promotion, Unification and Redevelopment of Niagara, an organization to spur business development in the area.
        He worked to rebuild the city of Niagara Falls and was responsible for the construction of a $4.5 million downtown headquarters for Carborundum. He also served on the board of the Roger Tory Peterson Institute, which preserves bird sanctuaries, and on the boards of Allegheny International, the Dunlop Tire & Rubber Corporation, the Energy Reserves Group, the New York Telephone Company and the Norfolk & Western Railway Company.
        Mr. Wendel graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1936 and the Harvard Business School in 1940. He was a member of the American Society of Corporate Executives, a commissioner of the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority, and chairman of the State University of New York College of Environmental Sciences and Forestry at Syracuse.
        He is survived by his wife, Louise; two sons, William Jr. and Jeffrey, both of Minneapolis; a daughter, Christine Longyear of Baltimore, and three grandchildren.
      