
        Alfonso Ossorio, an artist and art patron who created an internationally known arboretum and sculpture garden on his estate in East Hampton, L.I., died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 74 years old.
        Mr. Ossorio, who underwent heart surgery last year, died of a stroke, his longtime companion, Edward F. Dragon, said.
        As an artist, Mr. Ossorio was a member of the New York School generation and close to several of its members, including Jackson Pollock, Lee Krasner and Clyfford Still. For a while in the 1950's, influenced by Pollock and Still, he painted in an Abstract Expressionist mode.
        But in mid-decade, impressed with the deliberately crude materials-conscious work of the French painter Jean Dubuffet, he began the garish collage constructions -- he called them congregations -- for which he became known. They were built of such found materials as fake jewels, glass eyes, mirror shards, shells, bones, beads, buttons, plastic waste, antlers, horseshoes and so forth and set into refulgent beds of plastic glue and then richly varnished.  The Richness of Everything
        "The idea is to take the most ordinary things and make them extraordinary, as Gerard Manley Hopkins does in his poems," Mr. Ossorio once told an interviewer. "I want to show the richness of even the most disagreeable bits of life." The works, which anticipated the output of some of today's artists -- Julian Schnabel, for example -- received mixed reviews from critics but have found their way into many important museums, among them the Metropolitan, the Whitney, the Modern and the Guggenheim in New York.
        Under Mr. Ossorio's aegis, "The Creeks," the 80-acre estate in East Hampton he bought in 1951 from the heirs of the mural painter Albert Herter, once again became the showplace that it had been when Herter owned it at the turn of the century. The house, a rambling mansion spectacularly situated on the edge of Georgica Pond, was strikingly painted red, white, blue and black. It was crammed with exotic birds, rare Persian rugs and a gamut of objects ranging from Spanish crucifixes to African drums, along with an imposing collection of contemporary paintings by himself and such artists as Dubuffet, Pollock and Still.
        The grounds were planted with rare evergreens and other trees that Mr. Ossorio began to collect during the 1960's, and that now form a major arboretum of some 600 specimens. In the 1970's, he began to make large outdoor sculptures, of found objects and poured concrete, which he painted in bright colors. To lead the viewer's eye toward various plantings, he "decorated" the arboretum with these works, mingling large pieces in jarring colors with the greens of the trees. He enjoyed taking visitors on golf-cart tours of the arboretum, pointing out its major attractions.  International Education
        Mr. Ossorio was born in Manila on Aug. 2, 1916. His father started the first sugar refinery in central Philippines, the Victorias Milling Company on the island of Occidental Negros. The younger Ossorio attended private schools in England and the United States, and graduated from Harvard in 1938. He also attended the Rhode Island School of Design, and in 1939 was naturalized as an American citizen.
        By then a full-time painter, Mr. Ossorio had two one-man shows, in 1941 and 1943, at the Wakefield Gallery in New York. From 1943 to 1946, he served as a medical illustrator in the Army. In 1950, he spent 11 months on Negros, where he did murals for a new church in the refinery village of Victorias.
        When he returned to New York he met Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, and in Paris around the same time he became friendly with Dubuffet. He collected the work of both artists, along with that of Still, all of whom influenced his own early paintings. To be near the Pollocks, Mr. Ossorio began spending summers in East Hampton in 1949, and two years later bought the Creeks.  Art by 'Outsiders'
        Meanwhile, with Dubuffet's help, he had several shows in Paris, and from 1952 to 1961, he housed and exhibited at the Creeks Dubuffet's extensive collection of art by prisoners, the insane and other so-called outsiders, known as L'Art Brut. The collection, now numbering some 6,000 pieces, is installed in a museum in Lausanne, Switzerland. In the 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Ossorio had several shows at the prestigious Betty Parsons Gallery, which for a time handled Pollock's work. From a 1950 Pollock show at Parsons, Mr. Ossorio bought -- for $1,500 -- "Lavender Mist," a major canvas that he sold in 1976 to the National Gallery of Art in Washington at a price said to be more than $2 million.
        In 1957, with the artists John Little and Elizabeth Parker, Mr. Ossorio founded the Signa Gallery, East Hampton's first commercial art showcase. Its mission in the town, which was then conservative, was to introduce local audiences to "new, significant contributions of the painting and sculpture of its day," including the work of Pollock, Robert Motherwell, Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline. Though it was a success, it closed in 1961 because of the advent of Pop art and the founders' devotion to other activities.
        In the 1960's and early 70's, Mr. Ossorio had a number of shows at the Cordier and Ekstrom Gallery. But in the mid-70's, he began devoting his energies to the arboretum, selling the cream of his art collection to help pay for its development. In recent years, collector interest in his own work has grown, however, as evidenced by a highly successful Ossorio retrospective mounted last summer at the Benton Gallery in Southampton, L.I.
        Mr. Ossorio is survived by his brothers, Roberto, of New York City, Eric, of Greenwich, Conn., and Jose, of Naples, Fla. A memorial service is to be held at the Creeks in the spring.
      