
        Clarence L. Johnson, one of America's foremost aircraft designers, who developed advanced civilian and military planes, including the U-2, for the Lockheed Corporation, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center Pavillion in Burbank, Calif. He was 80 years old and lived in Encino, Calif.
        The cause was not disclosed, but a Lockheed spokesman said Mr. Johnson had been in failing health for several years.
        Mr. Johnson played a leading role in the design of more than 40 aircraft, including the YF-12 and the SR-71 Blackbird, both able to make long-duration flights at speeds of more than 2,000 miles an hour; the U-2 high-altitude reconnaisance plane; the F-104 Starfighter, and the P-38 Lightning of World War II. He also helped design the Agena spacecraft, Constellation airliners, Hercules cargo planes, the P2V Neptune, an antisubmarine aircraft and many experimental aircraft.
        He had a private pilot's license but he said he had only flown as a passenger on virtually every plane he designed.
        Mr. Johnson, known as Kelly, was affiliated with Lockheed for more than 50 years. He started as a tool designer at Lockheed's plant at Burbank in 1933. He retired in 1975 as a senior vice president. He remained a director until 1980 and was a senior adviser to Lockheed at his death.
        For 30 years Mr. Johnson was head of Lockheed's advanced development projects, known as the "Skunk Works." It was a small unit of technical and production specialists Mr. Johnson put together in 1943 to build the first jet fighter that went into production in this country, the F-80 Shooting Star, which was designed and produced in 143 days.
        Born on Feb. 27, 1910, in Ishpeming, Mich., Mr. Johnson attended Flint Junior College in Michigan and in 1933 he received a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the University of Michigan.
        After joining Lockheed, he worked as a flight test engineer, stress analyst, weight engineer and wind tunnel engineer before becoming chief research engineer in 1938. In 1952 he became chief engineer at the Burbank plant; he was appointed a corporate vice president in 1956.
        Mr. Johnson received some of the most prestigious awards in aviation, including two Collier Trophies, two Sylvanus Albert Reed awards, the Wright Brothers Memorial Trophy and the Daniel Guggenheim Medal.
        He also received three Presidential citations, including the Medal of Freedom, presented by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. Earlier this year, Clarence Johnson and the design team for the SR-71 received the 1990 National Air and Space Museum trophy for their work on the Blackbird aircraft.
        He was also a member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the Royal Aeronautical Society.
        He is survived by his third wife,, the former Nancy Powers Horrigan; a brother, Clifford, of East Tawas, Mich., and Pinellas Park, Fla.; and a sister, Alice Roseveare, of Saratoga, Calif.
      