
        Dr. Benjamin L. Reid, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer, literary critic and professor emeritus of English at Mount Holyoke College, died on Friday at Holyoke Hospital in South Hadley, Mass. He was 72 years old and lived in South Hadley.
        His family said he died after a series of strokes and a heart attack.
        Dr. Reid taught at Mount Holyoke for 26 years and served several terms as chairman of the college's English department before he retired in 1983 as Andrew Mellon Professor in the Humanities.
        He won a Pulitzer Prize in 1969 for "The Man From New York: John Quinn and His Friends," a biography of a wealthy New York lawyer who owned the largest single collection of modern European paintings in the world in the 1920's and was an assiduous patron of artists and writers.
        Dr. Reid's interest in Quinn stemmed from his own undergraduate days at the University of Louisville, where he studied art history and literature. He subsequently traveled in Europe under a Fulbright research grant that enabled him to interview T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound and other luminaries who were close to Quinn.
        Another of his books, "The Lives of Roger Casement," was a finalist in competition for a National Book Award in 1976. It treated the enigmatic life of a British foreign-service officer who was knighted in 1911 and was hanged five years later for high treason. Collection of Essays
        Dr. Reid's most recent book, published this year by the University of Missouri Press, was "Necessary Lives: Biographical Reflections," a collection of essays on several authors, including Eliot and John Keats.
        His first book "Art by Subtraction: A Dissenting Opinion of Gertrude Stein," was published in 1958 and labeled by the author "an essay in decapitation" of Miss Stein's reputation as a gadfly of literature and the arts.
        Two years ago Dr. Reid published "First Acts," an autobiographical memoir of what it was like to grow up in a "shabby genteel" Southern family.
        He was born in Louisville, was a graduate of the University of Louisville and held a master's degree from Columbia University and a doctorate from the University of Virginia. He taught at Iowa State University, Smith College and Sweet Briar College before joining the Mount Holyoke faculty in 1957 as an associate professor.
        Dr. Reid is survived by his wife, the former Jane Davidson; a daughter, Laurie McAnulty of Richmond, and three granddaughters.
      