
        With reminiscences and some of her favorite songs, friends of Mary Martin gathered at the Majestic Theater yesterday afternoon to celebrate her life.
        Miss Martin, who died of cancer in November at the age of 76, was recalled as a high-spirited artist who personified some of her signature roles; the eternal child in "Peter Pan," the "cockeyed optimist" in "South Pacific," the ebullient and nurturing protector in "The Sound of Music."
        "She was the greatest figure we're ever going to have in musical comedy," said Helen Hayes. She quickly amended the announcement to include Ethel Merman. "Mary would rap me over the knuckles in heaven when I got there," she said, if she did not cite Miss Merman.
        Miss Hayes remembered a trip with Miss Martin 35 years ago to Paris, where they were to perform in "The Skin of Our Teeth." Miss Martin took along grand clothes, she recalled, and as they walked through the city one day, "suddenly overhead there was a swoosh of birds," one of whom "took perfect aim on Mary."
        "I didn't know her too well," she said, and she feared Miss Martin would "have hysterics" at the marring of her outfit. But, Miss Hayes said, there was Miss Martin "looking at me with a sort of half-smile, and she said, 'For some people, they
        sing.'
        That was the beginning of our friendship." Gold Dust From the Air
        Van Johnson told of the time Miss Martin decided to stage a benefit for a hospital where she had been recovering from a 1982 automobile accident. To his horror, he saw her putting on a harness to reprise a number from "Peter Pan." "I said, 'Mary, you're
        not!' "
        he recounted, "and she said, 'Oh, yes, I am, and I may not come back.' And she zoomed up to the roof and sprinkled gold dust all over our hair."
        Recalling the same car accident and another sign of the artist's indomitable temperament, Florence Henderson cited a time when Miss Martin, still a patient, was given a walker, an object she had apparently never encountered. She took it on a promenade down the corridor. Other people smiled, and she smiled back, Ms. Henderson recalled, adding that "she was
        carrying
        the walker."
        She described Miss Martin as "truly the purest soul that I have ever known," adding, "She was so generous; she always let people into her circle of light." As for artistry, Ms. Henderson recalled a tribute that Miss Merman had made, in her fashion. Asked by a reporter what she had thought of Miss Martin's performance at the opening of "South Pacific," Ms. Henderson said, Miss Merman snapped, "Oh, she's all right, if you like talent.' " New Lyrics to a Favorite Song
        In one of several videotapes shown, Miss Martin and Miss Merman were seen singing a medley, alternating, performing together and gradually turning the duet into a mock competition.
        Carol Channing performed a tribute to Miss Martin that put new words to "My Heart Belongs to Daddy," the song that propelled Miss Martin to Broadway success in 1938 in Cole Porter's "Leave It To Me." "She played a nurse/She played a nun/She played a boy who was a fairy," Ms. Channing sang. "She stopped the show when she had to crow/And our hearts belong to Mary."
        Other participants included the performers John Raitt, Carol Lawrence and Kathleen Nolan and the choreographer Jerome Robbins. President Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, sent remarks in a videotape. Miss Martin's son, the actor Larry Hagman, and daughter, Heller Halliday DeMeritt, introduced the program.
        The event concluded with a 1983 videotape of Miss Martin singing a song from "Peter Pan." The tape's final image, of the artist with her arms outstretched, remained on the screen as participants in the memorial returned to the stage to applaud it.
      