
        Eleanor Schley Todd, a former Republican National Committeewoman, died on Monday at her home in Oldwick, N.J. She was 79 years old.
        Mrs. Todd died of congestive heart failure after a long illness, her daughter, Christine Todd Whitman of Far Hills, N.J., said.
        In 1956, Mrs. Todd was elected vice chairman of the Republican National Committee. From 1956 to 1966, she was a Republican National Committeewoman from New Jersey. From 1946 to 1952, she was president of the New Jersey Federation of Republican Women.
        She attended every Republican national convention as a delegate, alternate or convention manager from 1940 to 1976, and was a member of the board of governors of the Women's National Republican Club.
        She was also active in civic affairs. In 1983, Gov. Thomas H. Kean appointed her to the New Jersey Board of Higher Education, where she served until 1988. She was a member of the Regional Planning Association and of the Hunterdon County Parks Commission.
        In 1957 she was appointed to the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services, a post she held until 1967. During World War II, she was chairman of the New Jersey Red Cross Canteen.
        Mrs. Todd was born in Monmouth Beach, N.J., and was educated at the Chapin School, the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va., Barnard and Sarah Lawrence Colleges and at Columbia University, from which she graduated in 1967.
        She was a past chairman of the board of the Far Hills Country Day School and of the Foxcroft School. She was also a member of the Council of Independent Schools.
        Her daughter, Mrs. Whitman, was narrowly defeated by the Democratic incumbent from New Jersey, Bill Bradley, in her recent campaign for the United States Senate.
        Mrs. Todd's husband, Webster Bray Todd, a former state Republican state chairman in New Jersey, died in 1989.
        Besides Mrs. Whitman, Mrs. Todd is survived by another daughter, Kate Beach of Washington; a son, Webster B. Todd Jr. of Pray, Mont.; a brother, Reeve Schley Jr. of Whitehouse, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      