
        Ellis B. Haizlip, a leading producer of black cultural events and mentor of black artists, died on Friday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lung cancer, said his sister, Doris Sanders.
        Mr. Haizlip helped further the careers of many black artists, including the singers Nicholas Ashford and Valerie Simpson, Roberta Flack and Novella Nelson and the actress Anna Horsford.
        He was the executive producer of the television program "Soul," which became a showcase for young black artists, among them the poet Nikki Giovanni. The program was broadcast on Channel 13 from 1967 to 1973.
        Mr. Haizlip began his career at Howard University, where he was a producer with the Howard Players during a summer season. After graduating in 1954, he left for New York City, where he began producing plays with Vinnette Carroll at the Harlem Y.M.C.A. One of their productions was "Dark of the Moon," with Cicely Tyson, Clarence Williams 3d, Isabel Sanford, Calvin Lockhart, James Earl Jones and the Alvin Ailey Dancers. Produced Dietrich Concert
        He went on to produce concerts and performances in Europe and the Middle East. These included "Black New World," by the dancer Donald McKayle; "The Amen Corner," by James Baldwin, and "Black Nativity," by Langston Hughes. He also produced a concert tour by Marlene Dietrich.
        In 1972 and 1973, Mr. Haizlip and Lincoln Center produced "Soul at the Center," an acclaimed 12-day festival of black expression through the performing arts. Other Haizlip productions were the first Congressional Black Caucus Dinner in 1970, "Welcome to the World Saxophone" in 1980, and "Watch Your Mouth!" in 1978 for Channel 13. He was on the station's staff from 1967 to 1981.
        Mr. Haizlip also worked at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, where he coordinated cultural activities.
        In addition to his sister, who lives in Washington, Mr. Haizlip is survived by a brother, Lionel H. Haizlip of Canton, Ohio.
      