
        State Senator Christopher J. Jackman, a legislator in New Jersey for more than 20 years and a former Speaker of the Assembly, died on Monday at University Hospital in Newark. He was 74 years old and lived in West New York, N.J.
        He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Jackman, a Hudson County Democrat, was elected to the State Senate in 1983, after serving in the Assembly since 1968. He was a member of the Democratic leadership of both houses, serving as majority leader of the Assembly in 1977 before being elected speaker in 1978. He held the top Assembly post until 1982, serving as acting governor when the Governor was out of the state. In the Senate, he was deputy majority leader.
        Born in New York City on July 2, 1916, Mr. Jackson was educated in the public schools in West New York and took courses at Rutgers and at Cornell University. A blunt, down-to-earth orator who was proud of his ties to organized labor, he was a vice president of the United Paperworkers International Union. He sponsored many bills on labor issues and also was an advocate for the elderly, waging a successful fight last year for a state law allowing senior citizens in housing complexes to have pets.
        He also pushed successfully for a law requiring the use of plain language in consumer contracts, saying he was tired of signing documents he could not understand. He said that most contracts were filled with "mumbo jumbo" and that "you had to be a student of Chaucer" to understand a mortgage.
        As part of the Assembly leadership, he was able to move Democratic proposals by sometimes refusing to bring up for consideration bills sponsored by legislators reluctant to support the administration. His party loyalty was also demonstrated last June, when he left his hospital bed to help the State Senate pass Gov. Jim Florio's school-financing revisions.
        "Chris Jackman had a way of bringing joy to our hearts during the most difficult of times," said Senate President John A. Lynch. "He could inspire us with his ability to simplify the most complex issue and he was unchallenged in his gift for bringing diverse groups together."
        He is survived by his wife, Genevieve; two daughters, Kathleen Lordo of West New York, and Lorraine Oliveri of North Bergen, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
      