
        Lieut. Gen. Joseph F. Carroll, retired, the first head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 80 years old and lived in Alexandria.
        He died of pneumonia, said his wife, Mary Ann.
        General Carroll, an Air Force officer who was involved in national security affairs for 30 years, headed the Defense Intelligence Agency from its creation in 1961 until he retired in 1969. The agency was intended as a special unit to coordinate the intelligence activities of the separate services.
        Before that, he was inspector general of the Air Force and conducted investigations of suspected security violations, including the 1960 defection to the Soviet Union of two employees of the National Security Agency. He was previously deputy commander and chief of staff of the United States Air Forces in Europe, and from 1950 to 1958 he was deputy inspector general for security of the Air Force. Role as Organizer
        Joseph Francis Carroll was born in Chicago on March 19, 1910. In 1933, he graduated from St. Mary's College in Mundelein, Ill. He then worked for Swift & Company, the Chicago-based meat-packing concern, and while there he studied law at Loyola University. After graduating in 1940, he joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a special agent.
        In 1945, he was borrowed by the Justice Department to form an investigative unit to deal with the disposal of surplus war property. In September 1947, when the Air Force was established as a separate military branch, the bureau again lent him out, this time to organize and direct a security division for the Air Force. This required that he be commissioned as a colonel in the Air Force Reserve.
        After his retirement from the Government, he was executive director of the National Council of Catholic Men and a consultant on security matters.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by five sons: Joseph, a psychology professor at the University of Puerto Rico in San Juan, P.R.; James, a writer and novelist in Boston; Kevin, a social worker in Boston; Brian, an F.B.I, agent of Lenexa, Kan., and Dennis of Alexandria, Va., who helps distribute aid to third world countries. He is also survived by four sisters, Florence Wilson of Terre Haute, Ind., Alice Bender of Saginaw, Mich., Grace Clewell of Countryside, Ill., and Margaret Hoffman of Chicago; and 11 grandchildren.
      