
        Keye Luke, an actor who first gained notice as the brash but earnest No. 1 Son in the Charlie Chan detective films of the 1930's and 40's, died on Saturday at Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier, Calif. He was 86 years old and lived in Whittier.
        He died of a stroke, a family spokesman said.
        In recent weeks, the resilient actor earned new popularity as a humorously brusque Chinese herbalist and hypnotist in Woody Allen's comedy "Alice." Mr. Luke portrayed the irascible Dr. Yang, who created a magical mix of Eastern herbs and Western psychiatry to liberate a repressed Manhattanite played by Mia Farrow.
        Over nearly 60 years, the Chinese-born actor made more than 100 films. He often appeared on television, where he was most popular as a blind and gentle but masterly instructor in Asian philosophy and martial arts in "Kung Fu," a mystical Western series starring David Carradine, which ran from 1972 to 1975.
        As a contract player in the big-studio era, Mr. Luke had to appear in many minor movies, but he excelled in supporting roles in major films that included "Oil for the Lamps of China" (1935), "The Good Earth" (1937), "Across the Pacific" (1942), "Dragon Seed" (1944) and "Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing" (1955).
        The actor played Kato, a loyal servant, in "The Green Hornet" film serials and a dedicated intern in the "Dr. Kildare" films. In 1958, on Broadway, he played the patriarch of a Chinese-American family in Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d's musical "Flower Drum Song."
        Overcoming Stereotypes
        Mr. Luke was philosophical about roles that were denied to him because of cultural stereotyping. In a recent interview, he remarked: "A Chinese role should be played by a Chinese actor if he can play it. But if an actor can make you feel the reality, that person should get the part."
        In 1985 he expressed satisfaction that at least some stereotypes had disappeared. "The Chinese laundryman and the Japanese gardener may still be with us," he said, "but most Chinese and Japanese now find themselves in the mainstream of American life."
        His most satisfying role, he said, was the teacher in "Kung Fu." "I was giving the actual sayings of great Chinese philosophers like Confucius for dialogue," he said in 1985. "It worked for me on every level."
        In 1986, he won the first Lifetime Achievement Award bestowed by the Association of Asian/Pacific American Artists, and last month he was honored with a sidewalk star in the Hollywood Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Luke was born in Canton and immigrated to the United States as a child. He grew up in Seattle, where he graduated from Franklin High School. After entering the film industry as a billboard designer and caricaturist, he became a performer by accident when an M-G-M producer needed a Chinese actor with educated diction to play a supporting role in "The Painted Veil," a 1934 Greta Garbo film. Later, when not acting, he was a technical adviser on films with Chinese themes. He was also a founder of the Screen Actors Guild.
        Mr. Luke's wife died in 1979. Survivors include a daughter, Ethel Longenecker of Whittier.
      