
        Louis Cohen, who stocked the libraries of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Michael Jackson and innumerable less-celebrated bibliophiles with everything from dogeared paperbacks to rare first editions, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a stroke, said his daughter, Judith Lowry.
        In 1927 Mr. Cohen used a $500 loan from his uncle to open a bookstore on Fourth Avenue in the heart of the antiquarian book market in Manhattan. He named it the Argosy Book Store after the Spanish galleons that carried treasures around the globe.
        He moved the store to its present location on East 59th Street in 1931 and began filling the mahogany bookshelves with rare Bibles, manuscripts and first editions of books by Mark Twain, William Faulkner, Emily Dickinson and many others. Open to Browsers
        Among things that have passed through the store were a document signed by Thomas Jefferson that delineated the boundaries of Washington, which was to be the nation's capital, bejeweled editions of Omar Khayyam's "Rubiyat" and the libraries of Marshall Field, John Gunther and Paul Robeson.
        A vast collection of $1 paperbacks and inexpensive prints helped Mr. Cohen maintain the Argosy as one of the last bookshops specializing in rare and out-of-print tomes that is open to browsers wandering in from the street.
        His wife, Ruth Shevin, oversees the collection of rare maps, prints, posters and paintings that fill the second floor of the building, and his three daughters and sister-in-law also work in the store, which sells rare autographs, photographs and other documentary collectibles as well. Photographs of Twain, Groucho Marx, the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, Duke Ellington and other notable people are displayed with their autographs or signed letters. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's signature is shown with a clipping about Sherlock Holmes and a photo of the actor William Gillette, who played the famous sleuth.
        Mr. Cohen's acquaintance with President Roosevelt began in 1935, when Mr. Cohen stumbled across about 30 children's books from the 1880's, signed by Sarah Delano, the President's mother. He sent the books to the President, establishing a correspondence that lasted several years.
        In the early 1960's, Jacqueline Kennedy asked Mr. Cohen to supply books for the White House Americana Library, and he also established libraries for the University of Texas and the University of Kansas, among others. He donated a marine research library to Israel and several thousand Hebrew books to Bar-Ilan University in Israel.
        Mr. Cohen was a founding member of the Antiquarian Booksellers Association of America and a member of the Old Book Table, an exclusive trade organization for antiquarian booksellers.
        He is survived by his wife; three daughters, Judith Lowry, Naomi Hample and Adina Cohen, all of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      