
        Vasko Popa, a leading Yugoslav poet whose works were translated from Serbian into 19 languages, died on Friday at the Military Academy Hospital in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, where he lived. He was 68 years old.
        His died of cancer, his wife, Hasha Singer-Popa, said by telephone yesterday.
        The symbolist poetry of Mr. Popa, a modernist, was widely hailed as the finest in the Serbian language and an artful mix of folk poetry and surrealism. His language was succinct, often aphoristic and elliptical, and it focused on the specific over the abstract.  Life in Forceful Rhythms
        He avoided rhyme while using humor and proverbs to explore the universal themes of life, love, fate and death. He was admired for being inventive and entertaining and for using paradoxical images and forceful rhythms to dramatize the senselessness, ironies and tragicomedies of life.
        The English poet Ted Hughes lauded him as an "epic poet" with a "vast vision" and added, in an introduction to "Vasko Popa: Collected Poems 1943-1976," which was translated by Anne Pennington and which was published in 1978 by Persea Books of New York: "As Popa penetrates deeper into his life, with book after book, it begins to look like a universe passing through a universe. It is one of the most exciting things in modern poetry, to watch this journey being made."
        In tributes offered yesterday, Mr. Popa was hailed as one of the great poets of this time by Octavio Paz, who won a 1990 Nobel Prize for Literature; Charles Simic, the 1990 Pulitzer Prize winner in poetry, and Mark Strand, the 1990-91 poet laureate of the United States. Mr. Paz, of Mexico, added that "poets have the gift to speak for others," but that "Vasko Popa had the very rare quality to hear the others."  Editor at Publishing Houses
        He was a native of the Serbian town Grebenac. In World II, he fought as a partisan and was held in a Nazi concentration camp. He studied at the universities of Vienna; Bucharest, Romania, and Belgrade, where he received a literature degree in 1949.
        Mr. Popa was an editor at several publishing houses, wrote 43 volumes of verse and won many European awards. English translations of his works include "Earth Erect" (Anvil Press, 1973); "The Little Box" (Charioteer Press, 1973) and "Homage to the Lame Wolf" (Oberlin College Press, 1979).
        In addition to his wife, who is an architect and teacher, survivors include a sister, Dana Staechet, also of Belgrade.
      