
        King Olav V of Norway, who as Crown Prince was a national symbol of resistance to Nazi Germany's occupation of his country in World War II, died yesterday after a heart attack, the Palace announced. He was 87 years old.
        Olav, the oldest monarch in Europe, was widely revered by his subjects in a reign that began in 1957. A constitutional sovereign with a sense of history and humor, he mingled freely and informally with his subjects. They in turn loved him as a father figure and fondly termed him a "folke konge" (a king for all the people). His royal motto was "My All for Norway," first chosen by his father, King Haakon VII.
        He is to be succeeded by his son, Crown Prince Harald.
        King Olav traveled throughout much of the world and made more than a dozen trips to the United States, including several secret wartime visits. He was an ardent and adept sportsman into old age, and won many ski jumping and yachting competitions, including a 1928 Olympic gold medal for 5.5-meter-class sailboats.
        Olav's egalitarian geniality was epitomized in a popular photograph of him in the early 1970's, carrying skis aboard a local train on the way from the royal palace in Oslo to a nearby slope. At the time, his subjects were being exhorted to use public transit to conserve oil, nearly a decade before North Sea explorations made Norway an important oil and gas producer.  Offered to Lead Resistance
        In 1940, when Hitler's troops swept over southern Norway, Crown Prince Olav, the King and leaders of the parliamentary Government held out for two months in the north woods against nightly air raids and advancing German troops. As the leaders prepared to retreat to England, Olav offered to stay behind to help lead a resistance, but he was overruled by the others, who opposed the offer as too hazardous.
        In the wartime Government in exile in England, Olav became the top envoy to the United States, helped build a fighting force of free Norwegians, often attended his exiled Government's Cabinet meetings, made radio broadcasts to his countrymen and, as the general commanding the armed forces, received a triumphant homecoming after aiding the 1945 allied liberation of Norway.
        In 1957, when Olav became King at his father's death, Trygve Lie, who was Norway's wartime Foreign Minister in exile and then the first Secretary General of the United Nations, offered this tribute: "King Olav is very knowledgeable in many fields, and his excellent memory has impressed experts in many areas. His wide knowledge of American history, industry, agriculture and economy was greater than that of any other Norwegian I met during the war."
        Norway's modern independent monarchy dates only to 1905, when Olav's father, Haakon VII, who was originally Prince Carl of Denmark, was crowned after a plebiscite. Before then, Norway had been united with Denmark from 1381 to 1814, and then with Sweden from 1814 to 1905.
        The son, christened Alexander Edward Christian Frederick, had been born on July 2, 1903, at the British royal estate in Sandringham, England, to Princess Maud, a daughter of Britain's King Edward VII. Haakon soon renamed his son Olav, a heroic name of Viking rulers.
        At 25, Olav married Princess Martha of Sweden. The couple traveled widely, including an extensive 1939 journey in the United States. They established a friendship with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who arranged for wartime sanctuary near Washington for Crown Princess Martha and their three children. She died in 1954 and King Olav did not remarry.
        The couple's son and two daughters all married commoners, leading a King of Danish and British ancestry to remark that the marriages only proved that his family had become thoroughly Norwegian.
        Olav's children are Crown Prince Harald, who married Sonja Haraldsen, daughter of a merchant; Princess Ragnhild, who married Erling Lorentzen, a shipowner, and Princess Astrid, who married Johan Ferner, a merchant. Olav also leaves 10 grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      