
        William H. Davis, a founder of Golf Digest magazine and a retired senior vice president of The New York Times Company, died on Wednesday at the Carolton Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. He was 68 years old and had moved recently to Jupiter, Fla., from Greenwich, Conn.
        His wife, Chermaine, said he died of congestive heart failure resulting from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
        In 1984 Mr. Davis was named a senior vice president of The New York Times Company and chairman of its magazine group, consisting of Family Circle, Golf Digest, Tennis, Cruising World, and Golf Digest of the United Kingdom.  Founded Magazine and Sold It
        He was also editor in chief of Golf Digest, a magazine that he founded in 1950 and that he and his colleagues sold to The New York Times in 1969. Mr. Davis then joined The Times Company.
        In 1975 he was named a vice president of The New York Times Company and appointed overseer of Family Circle and several other magazines, including Golf Digest and Tennis, a periodical that he had urged the company to buy in 1972.
        In 1976, as head of the magazine group, Mr. Davis came up with the idea for Us magazine, and after several test issues, the company published it as a biweekly in April 1977. By January 1980, Us was averaging a million copies an issue. The Times sold it two months later, saying it wanted to emphasize service-oriented magazines.
        Mr. Davis retired in 1987.
        A graduate of Northwestern University, he was a deck officer aboard the aircraft carrier Intrepid in World War II. From 1946 to 1949, he was Chicago news editor for Printers Ink magazine.  Part-Time Venture Expanded
        He founded Golf Digest in 1950 as a part-time venture for distribution to golf courses and country clubs in the Chicago area. As golf became more popular, the company expanded and included such other golf-related publications as The Book of Golf and Golf Shop Operations. Mr. Davis was editor in chief of the magazine for 10 years.
        An avid golfer, he was also founder of the National Advertising Golf Association and a member of several golf clubs. He wrote two books, "Great Golf Courses of the World" and "100 Greatest Golf Courses -- and Then Some." A third book, "The World's Best Golf," is to be published by Golf Digest in March.
        Before devoting full time to Golf Digest in 1959, Mr. Davis was an account executive with the CBS television station division in Chicago and New York.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Susan Carol Davis of Cape Town, South Africa; his mother, Anne, of Boca Raton, Fla., and a brother, Philip, of Lake Bluff, Ill.
      