
        Carl D. Anderson, a co-winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1936, died yesterday morning at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Anderson, a retired physics professor at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, near San Marino, died after a short illness, said Robert Finn, a spokesman for Caltech. Mr. Finn declined to specify the cause of death, saying the family did not want it disclosed.
        Dr. Anderson was 31 years old and already at Caltech when he was named a Nobel laureate in recognition of his discovery of one of the tiniest particles in nature, the positron, a part of the atom that is also known as the positive electron.
        His discovery grew out of his studies at Caltech of cosmic rays, which, as he once put it, "are raining down on earth from out in space." He shared the prize with another eminent cosmic-ray investigator, Dr. V. G. Hess of the University of Innsbruck in Austria. The two scientists' respective shares of the prize were about $20,000.  Discovery in Beautiful Curves
        To measure the energy of the electrons produced by cosmic rays, Dr. Anderson designed and constructed an apparatus that consisted of a large electromagnet hugging a Wilson cloud chamber, which he described, in a 1936 interview, as "nothing much but a sealed tube full of water vapor under very low pressure."
        He used an arc-lighted camera for photographing, through a window in the chamber, the visible vapor trails of charged particles moving through it.
        An electric field made the trails "curve beautifully," Dr. Anderson said in an interview after the prize was awarded. He said he and an assistant "knew that the the paths should curve all in the same direction, for we believed that the particles were electrons -- units of electricity, carrying a negative electric charge."
        But one night in 1932, he said, he and his assistant "saw the track of a particle that was being bent in the opposite direction." Eventually, calculations showed that this positively charged particle was not like anything that had ever been found. Further analysis disclosed that it was what came to be called the positron.  Degrees and Career at Caltech
        Carl David Anderson was born Sept. 3, 1905, in New York City and spent much of his youth in Los Angeles, graduating from Los Angeles Polytechnic High School in 1923. He earned a B.S. degree at Caltech in 1927 and a Ph.D. there in 1930.
        He served as a research fellow from 1930 to 1933, when he became an assistant professor. He rose to associate professor in 1937 and full professor in 1939, and served as chairman of Caltech's division of physics, mathematics and astronomy from 1962 to 1970. He retired in 1976.
        Dr. Anderson married Lorraine Bergman in 1946. She died in 1984. He is survived by two sons, Marshall, a mathematician and computer analyst, who lives in Southern California, and David, an engineer, of Irvine, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      