
        George Allen, a hard-driving, slightly eccentric football coach who had a knack for making winners out of losing teams, died today at age 72.
        Greg Allen said his father had died at home of natural causes.
        Mr. Allen, who coached the Los Angeles Rams and the Washington Redskins of the National Football League and two teams with the now-defunct United States Football League, had ended a five-year retirement to coach at Long Beach State in December 1989.
        In an interview last Thursday, Mr. Allen admitted that he hadn't been completely healthy since his players drenched him with icewater to celebrate a season-ending victory over Nevada-Las Vegas.
        "We couldn't afford Gatorade," he said with a smile. Rewarding Season
        Mr. Allen said his season at Long Beach State was the most rewarding of hisentire career. His team had a 6-5 record; Long Beach was 4-8 the previous season.
        Mr. Allen ranks as the winningest coach in team history for both the Rams and the Redskins. His record was 49-17-4 with Los Angeles, a .742 percentage, and 67-30-1 with Washington, .691.
        Although he had excellent records in pro football, he never was able to produce an N.F.L. champion. The closest he came was with the Redskins in the 1972 season, when they lost, 14-7, to the Miami Dolphins in Super Bowl VII.
        Mr. Allen was known for wild spending to build a winner and trading draft choices for veterans. The Redskins kept winning but he was dismissed after the 1977 season. The late Edward Bennett Williams, who owned the team, said, "George was given an unlimited budget -- and exceeded it." A Start in 1948
        Mr. Allen's celebrated coaching career, which covered six decades, began in 1948 at Morningside College in Sioux City, Iowa. In his first year, the team had a 3-6 record. That was one of only three times he had a losing record, the other two coming at Whittier College in 1951 and 1954.
        He took over the struggling Rams in 1966 and led the team to a 8-6 record, their first winning season in eight years. The next year, the Rams finished first in the division with an 11-1-2 record, Mr. Allen's best single-season mark.
        Building the Redskins by trading away future draft choices for older players that other teams had given up on, Mr. Allen led the Redksins into the Super Bowl with an 11-3 regular-season record and playoff victories over Green Bay and Dallas.
        "I talked to Coach Allen a few weeks ago and he was just so excited about the winning season he had a Long Beach State," said the Houston Oilers' coach, Jack Pardee, who played under Mr. Allen as a linebacker with the Redskins. "Coach Allen always thrived on building something out of very little. And he was very excited about the continuing challenge that he had at Long Beach."
        Mr. Allen was constantly surrounded by controversy. After he was dismissed by the Redskins after the 1977 season, he was hired back by the Rams. But the Rams let him go him just two games into the 1978 exhibition schedule. He also had two winning seasons in the U.S.F.L. in the mid-1980's.
        His most recent pro coaching job was with the Arizona Wranglers of the United States Football League in 1984, when he was 10-8. Mr. Allen also coached the Chicago Blitz of the U.S.F.L. in 1983, leading them to a 12-6 mark.
        He is survived by his wife, Etty; a daughter, and three sons.
      