
        Ronald Sanders, a writer who specialized in Jewish history and the immigrant experience in New York and elsewhere, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 58 years old.
        He died of bone and liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Sanders, a former editor of Midstream, the Zionist monthly journal, wrote extensively on Jews in Palestine and in the communities around the world to which they dispersed. He also dealt with the development of racism in America, which he traced to Columbian times.
        His most popular book, "The Downtown Jews: Portrait of an Immigrant Generation," published by Harper & Row in 1970, detailed life on the Lower East Side beginning with the first wave of Russian Jewish arrivals in the 1880's. He paid particular attention to the cultural and ideological ferment that gave birth to a radical movement that fostered the formation of the International Ladies Garment Workers and other trade unions. A Demographic Contrast
        In his most recent book, "Shores of Refuge: A Hundred Years of Jewish Emigration" (Henry Holt, 1988), Mr. Sanders provides an account of the population movement that has resulted in the fact that half the world's Jewish population lives in the Western Hemisphere, a stark contrast with the third quarter of the 19th century, when four of five Jews lived in Eastern and Central Europe.
        In "Israel: The View From Masada," published in 1966, he offered an analysis of the cross-currents in that country's Jewish personality, notably the conflicts between Israelis with roots in central Europe and other Jews.
        Mr. Sanders himself was half Jewish. He was born in Union City, N.J., to a Jewish mother and a gentile father, both immigrants from England, and grew up in Brooklyn. "Reflections on a Teapot," published in 1972, was a memoir inspired by a tune written by his father, George, a songwriter and arranger.
        Mr. Sanders was a graduate of Kenyon College and held a master's degree in history from Columbia. He taught at Queens College in the late 1950's and early 1960's. In 1988 he was named to the B. G. Rudolph Chair in Jewish Studies at Syracuse University but was unable to accept it because of ill health.
        His other books included "The High Walls of Jerusalem," a study of the Balfour Declaration of 1917 that pledged British support for a Jewish homeland in Palestine, and "The Days Grow Short," a biography of the composer Kurt Weill.
        Before his final illness Mr. Sanders was working on a biography of the author Isaac Bashevis Singer, for which he had received a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Humanities.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Beverly Gingold, and a sister, Marilyn O'Bradovich, of Manhattan.
      