
        Giacomo Manzu, one of Italy's leading sculptors, died on Thursday at his hilltop home at Ardea, just south of Rome. He was 82 years old.
        He had suffered from a heart ailment for some time, his family said.
        Mr. Manzu, whose work often mixed religious, allegorical and sexual imagery, was best known outside Italy for the monumental bronze doors he made for St. Peter's Basilica, the Cathedral of Salzburg, Austria, and the St. Laurens Church in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. But in a career that covered nearly seven decades, he also made portrait busts, female nudes, sets and costumes for the composer Igor Stravinsky, and secular works for public spaces, among them two reliefs for the Palazzo d'Italia in Rockefeller Center. A large bronze of a woman holding a baby stands at the United Nations headquarters. In 1969 a permanent gallery of his work was built in Ardea with money donated by prominent patrons from 14 countries. Cardinals and Communism
        His long, prolific life, his stance against war and his graceful, mildly ironic style -- his work often included homely details like a straight-backed chair -- made the sculptor something of a national institution.
        His most controversial work was the "Door of Death" at St. Peter's Basilica, standing 20 feet high and 11 feet wide, to the left of the main entrance. Commissioned by the Vatican in the early 1950's, it was not completed until 1964, after the death of Mr. Manzu's close friend, Pope John XXIII, who had prodded him to finish it.
        Vatican officials were disturbed by the artist's professed Communism and his insistence on portraying humanity at the crossroads of death rather than a more spiritual theme. Portions of the door's 10 panels also drew strong criticism, including one in which a cardinal looks at a man hanging upside down, apparently a reference to executions of Fascists after the war. After one prelate requested Latin inscriptions to accompany the images of Christ, Abel, St. Joseph, Mary, St. Stephen and many others, Mr. Manzu told friends: "I can't put words on these panels. This is not a comic strip." Self-Taught but Self-Confident
        Mr. Manzu was born on Dec. 22, 1908, one of many children of a poor shoemaker and his wife. The family name was Manzoni, but the sculptor later changed it to Manzu. At the age of 11, he began working for a local carpenter; later he worked for a gilder who made plaster decorations. A family friend once said that his first sculptures were made of wax left over from candles in the church where his father was a sacristan.
        By 1929, self-taught but convinced of his sculptural gifts, Mr. Manzu moved to Milan, where he showed his work in group exhibitions. His first one-man show was held in Rome in 1938. During these years, his imagery was mainly tender, romantic figures of women and young girls. Although he visited Paris, where he made his first contact with Impressionism, his sculptural inspiration came mainly from ancient Greek art and medieval stonework. He mocked intellectual pretensions. "For me there is just work," he once said. "Esthetic and intellectual theories do not concern me."
        In 1938, he attracted the attention of critics when he exhibited the first of his long series of bronze sculptures of cardinals in Milan. Always a figurative sculptor, he nevertheless regarded the cardinals as his "abstractions" because he was not interested in their religious content but in their form and line.
        Over the years, he produced many still lifes and figures of young women, for which his second wife, Inge, was often the model. During World War II, he had to go into hiding after attracting attention because of his anti-Fascist and anti-Nazi drawings. In 1948, he gained worldwide recognition when he was awarded the grand prize in Italian sculpture at the Venice Biennale. That year, his work was also included in an exhibition of 20th-century Italian art at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. A Humanist, Friends Say
        He taught art at the Brera Academy in Milan; illustrated several books of poetry, including one by the Sicilian poet Salvatore Quasimodo, and designed sets and costumes for his friend Stravinsky's opera "Oedipus Rex" at the composer's request. He also designed Stravinksy's tomb in Venice.
        Although he never took an active part in politics, he said he was a man of the left and voted Communist. In 1968 he received a Lenin Peace Prize from the Soviet Government for his stance against United States policies in Vietnam. His friends liked to say that the shy, modest Mr. Manzu was a humanist and that there was no paradox in the fact that he could sculpture the bust of a pope and the crucifixion of Christ, and also design a monument to Lenin, which stands on the island of Capri.
        Mr. Manzu is survived by his wife, Inge. Information on surviving children was incomplete.
      