
        Juliet Man Ray, the widow and major subject of later portraits by the avant-garde painter and photographer Man Ray, died on Thursday at the Huntington Hospital on Long Island. She was 79 years old and lived in Paris.
        She died of a heart attack while visiting relatives, a family spokesman said.
        Mrs. Man Ray, a dancer and model, and the artist were married in 1946 and lived in a Paris studio near the Luxembourg Gardens from 1951 until he died in 1976 at the age of 86. The eclectic works of Man Ray, once a Dadaist and Surrealist, encompass painting, film, what he called "object making" and, earlier, fashion photography, and are often exhibited on both sides of the Atlantic.  Pulleys and Parachute Cloth
        Only last month, she described their life together, recalling how he transformed the cramped studio by rigging a system of pulleys to suspend obtrusive objects and by muting harsh light and coal dust by stretching a parachute cloth below the ceiling, evolving a functional living space into a showcase for art.
        When not posing for his works, she said, she remained nearby. "He would like me to be there while he worked," she said. "We didn't talk. He just wanted to feel my presence." Evenings were shared with guests in supper parties, chitchat and salon-style gatherings.
        Mrs. Man Ray sought to restore the studio as a public museum, but the structure was in such disrepair that it proved too expensive. Most of the contents are now stored at the Pompidou Center. It hopes to rebuild the studio elsewhere with donations sought by the Man Ray Trust, which is administered by her brother Gregory Browner. "It was a wonderful life," she recalled. "Now others will share it."  Native of the Bronx
        The former Juliet Browner was a native of the Bronx and a graduate of James Monroe High School who studied dance with Martha Graham, but soon became a model. Her father, Henry Browner, emigrated from Rumania and graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy.
        Besides Gregory, she leaves four other brothers, Philip, of the Bronx, Fred, of Hartsdale, N.Y., Joseph, of Los Angeles and Eric, of Jericho, L.I.
      