
        The trumpeter Cladys (Jabbo) Smith died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        He died of complications from pneumonia, Lorraine Gordon, a friend, said.
        At the peak of his career, from the mid-1920's through the 30's, Mr. Smith -- an exciting, aggressive player who cultivated his own idiosyncratic style -- was considered a rival of Louis Armstrong. Later in his career he incorporated elements of Mr. Armstrong's improvising and singing style into his performances.
        Mr. Smith was born in Pembroke, Ga., in 1908 and raised at an orphanage in Charleston, S.C. At age 16 he was working as a professional musician, and at 17 he became a member of Charlie Johnson's Paradise Band. In 1928, he joined the touring revue "Keep Shufflin,' " while recording with Fats Waller and with James P. Johnson's Louisiana Sugar Babes.  Competing Disks
        Mr. Smith moved to Chicago in 1929 and began recording with a five-man group for the Brunswick label, which was trying to compete withLouis Armstrong's highly popular records.
        Brunswick had reason to think he might be able to compete successfully. Rex Stewart, the cornetist with the Duke Ellington Orchestra, remembered a musical showdown between Mr. Smith and Armstrong at the Rockland Palace in Harlem in which Mr. Smith more than held his own. "He was blowing -- really coming on like the angel Gabriel himself," Stewart told an interviewer.
        Mr. Smith worked with many of the major bands of the 1930's, including the orchestras of Carroll Dickerson, Earl Hines, Erskine Tate, Charlie Elgar, Tiny Parhamn, Fess Williams and Claude Hopkins.
        In the 1950's, he more or less retired from music, and worked in a car rental agency. But in 1979, he joined the cast of the musical "One Mo' Time" at the Village Gate in Manhattan, and later toured with it. During the 1980's, Mr. Smith worked in Europe, in clubs and at festivals, and performed in New York at the Village Vanguard with the trumpeter Don Cherry and with the Mel Lewis Orchestra.
        There are no survivors.
      