
        Robert S. Hutchins, the architect of many buildings for educational, civic and religious institutions around the United States, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old.
        He died of heart disease, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Hutchins, a witty man dedicated to professional integrity and community service, was a former president of both the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects and the New York State Board of Examiners for Architects. He was also president of the National Academy of Design from 1977 to 1989. Led Commission to Victory
        As the architect on New York City's Municipal Art Commission in the mid-1950's, he led a brief revolt against the proposed site of a courthouse in lower Manhattan and won a moral victory when city leaders pledged to give the commission a greater role in planning.
        Mr. Hutchins was the chief designer of the campus and many buildings at Goucher College in Towson, Md.; the State University of New York's Harpur College in Binghamton, and the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University. He also designed buildings at St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., Staten Island Community College, St. Timothy's School in Stevenson, Md., and Cazenovia (N.Y.) College. He was the supervising architect at Vassar College from 1960 to 1985.
        The Manhattan-based architect, a founding partner of Moore & Hutchins from 1937 to 1972 and of Hutchins, Evans & Lefferts from 1972 to 1985, also designed the United States's World War II cemetery at Carthage, Tunisia, and supervised renovations of landmarks including Grace Church, the Gothic Revival landmark at Broadway and 10th Street.
        Robert Senger Hutchins was born in Oakland, Calif., and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in architecture at the University of Pennsylvania. He was a trustee of many organizations, including Barnard College, the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine and the New York State Historical Association, and an honorary trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, Evelyn Brooks Hutchins; a son, Robert Ayer Hutchins, an architect, of Chicago; a daughter, Elizabeth Bronnert of Belmont, Mass.; a sister, Lucy Garcia, of Berkeley, Calif., and five granddaughters.
      