
        Dr. Alexander M. Schmidt, a former Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, died Monday at his home in Oak Park, Ill. He was 61 years old.
        He died in his sleep of coronary artery disease, his family said. He underwent quadruple-bypass heart surgery five years ago.
        Dr. Schmidt headed the Federal agency from 1973 to 1976. During his tenure, the F.D.A. budget tripled and laws regulating food and drug safety were strengthened. It was in this period that the agency persuaded manufacturers of birth-control pills to give detailed information about possible side effects.
        Dr. Schmidt also conducted a broad investigation of private research laboratories that resulted in charges that some had deliberately falsified data on tests of the safety of new drugs and food additives. And in 1976, under his direction, the agency moved to end the use of aerosol sprays containing fluorocarbons to reduce damage to the ozone layer that protects Earth from the Sun's ultraviolet radiation.  Criticism From Panel
        But that same year, a few months before Dr. Schmidt announced that he would step down, a Government-appointed panel of lawyers and scientists accused him of inadequately investigating allegations of mismanagement at the agency before his own tenure. He disputed the panel's conclusions, contending that his investigation had been fair and open.
        He also had to contend from time to time with allegations that the agency was dominated by the drug industry. He repeatedly insisted that such charges were false.
        Dr. Schmidt, a native of Jamestown, N.D., was a graduate of Northwestern University and received his doctoral degree from the University of Utah College of Medicine, where he was an assistant dean before joining the University of Illinois College of Medicine in 1969.
        After heading the F.D.A., he returned to the University of Illinois as vice chancellor for health affairs at its Chicago hospital. In 1987 he was named chairman of the University Hospital Consortium in Oakbrook Terrace, Ill., which advises university health-care institutions throughout the country on purchasing, insurance and technology.
        Dr. Schmidt is survived by his wife, the former Patricia White; two daughters, Susan Inman and Sarah Schmidt, both of Chicago; two brothers, Theodore, of Diablo, Calif., and William, of Ogden, Utah, and two grandchildren.
      