
        Miles Copeland Sr., a political consultant on the Middle East, writer and one-time spy, died Monday at Padocks Hospital in Oxfordshire, England. He was 74 years old and had homes in Oxfordshire and Washington.
        Mr. Copeland, a native of Birmingham, Ala., died of heart failure, according to The Birmingham News.
        While in his 20's, Mr. Copeland was an arranger and trumpet player for the Glenn Miller Orchestra. He began his career as a spy after he joined the Army in 1940 and was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services, forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        Mr. Copeland served in the counterespionage branch of the O.S.S. and then joined the C.I.A. when that agency was founded after World War II. He worked primarily in the Middle East and from 1947 to 1950 was a political attache at the United States Embassy in Damascus, Syria.
        After working in several Foreign Service posts, he left the Government in 1957 to form a Washington consulting firm.  Friend of Mideast Leaders
        Mr. Copeland was fluent in 10 languages, including French and Arabic, and had an inate shrewdness that won him friends like President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt and the Shah of Iran.
        He was able to maintain good relations with leaders who were often at odds with each other and explained his success this way: "I respect and like each of these men as individuals but I disagree with the political views of each of them openly and strongly so much that none of them can suspect me of political cooperation with any other."
        He wrote several books, among them "The Game of Nations," "Without Cloak or Dagger," and his autobiography, "The Game Player."
        He also wrote a pamphlet with restricted distribution to Arab government leaders entitled, "Organizational Problems of the Revolutionary Government, a portrait of the modern Arab leader trying to bridge the ancient and modern world," which was published in book form as "The Lion and the Lizard: Problems of Leadership in the Middle East."
        He is survived by his wife, Lorraine, an archeologist; three sons, Ian, a rock-music booking agent; Miles Jr., manager of the rock performer Sting, and Stewart, former drummer with the rock group The Police and now a composer, and a daughter, Lennie, a film producer.
      