
        Eddie C. Moore, an administrator and advocate for people with mental and physical disabilities, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 41 years old.
        His death resulted from cancer, a family spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Moore resigned under pressure in 1989 as the director of the developmental disabilities division of New Jersey's Department of Human Services after acknowledging he had spent $32 million without authorization. In his defense, he argued that people's needs outweighed bureaucratic constraints.
        He was indicted last year for official misconduct, and he pleaded not guilty in proceedings that are still pending. Yesterday, several former colleagues credited him with dramatically increasing public awareness of the aptitudes and potential of disabled people.  'Real Wages for the First Time'
        Robert B. Nicholas, his successor, said that Mr. Moore had started transforming a "largely institutional" system with "community programs, including group residences, and had pioneered employment programs" through which clients earned "real wages for the first time; his legacy will be the opportunities he created."
        Deborah Spitalnik, executive director of the university-affiliated program of the State's University of Medicine and Dentistry, hailed Mr. Moore as a "visionary leader" who had "an unshakeable commitment to creating opportunities for people with disabilities."
        Eddie Christopher Moore was a native of Brooklyn and a graduate of Erasmus Hall High School. He earned a bachelor's degree at Queens College and a master's degree at Fordham University.
        He worked for New York State for 10 years, rising from recreation therapist to associate commissioner for Long Island in the Office of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities. In New Jersey's human services agency for eight years, he was successively head of the mental-retardation unit and the developmental-disabilities unit.
        Surviving are his wife, Corona; his parents, Eddie T. and Frances; two brothers, Walter and Kevin; a sister, Francine Williams, all of New York; and a second sister, Melnie, of Washington.
      