
        Hamilton Fish, who as a conservative Republican Congressman from New York opposed United States involvement in World War II until Pearl Harbor and clashed with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died on Friday evening in his house in Cold Spring in Putnam County. He was 102 years old.
        Mr. Fish died of heart failure after developing pneumonia, said the press secretary to his son, Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., a Republican from the Hudson Valley. Martin, Barton and Him
        The press secretary, Frederick W. Stokeld Jr., said the elder Mr. Fish had gone home on Monday from the Veteran's Administration Medical Center in Castle Point in Dutchess County, where he had been admitted on Jan. 3.
        Mr. Fish was elected to Congress in 1920, representing Dutchess, Orange and Putnam counties, and left office after his election defeat in 1944.
        During the 1940 Presidential campaign, he and two other Republican isolationists -- Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr. of Massachusetts and Senator Bruce Barton of Connecticut -- were often denounced sneeringly by Mr. Roosevelt as "Martin, Barton and Fish." The phrase, much quoted by historians, was a cadenced refrain in speeches by the President that were broadcast across the country by radio.
        The elder Mr. Fish's secretary, Joanne Mecca, said yesterday that Mr. Fish had approved of the war on Iraq but that he generally opposed war except as a last resort. She reported that he had said to his wife, Lydia, soon after the Persian Gulf war began, "I stand behind President Bush."  Opposed New Deal and War
        But half a century ago Mr. Fish was a vocal adversary of President Roosevelt, opposing his New Deal policies as well as the country's growing involvement in World War II. The enmity between the two former friends overrode the fact that they came from two old New York State families, and that Mr. Roosevelt's Hyde Park home was in Mr. Fish's Congressional district.
        On his 100th birthday, Mr. Fish said he had not minded Mr. Roosevelt's refrain very much. "I know he hated me," he said in a telephone interview, "but I really don't believe in hate. So now I don't hate Roosevelt -- but frankly I despise him."
        Mr. Fish, a longtime anti-Communist, said in that interview that he had been "studying Communism for 50 years," and he observed that "the Soviets themselves have turned against Roosevelt's great friend Stalin."
        And in the interview Mr. Fish also took a positive view of the "Martin, Barton and Fish" phrase. "Roosevelt thought all the time he was hurting me when he said that, and of course it got enormous applause," he said. "You know, he had enormous popularity."
        But Mr. Fish said that as a result, "I became very well known throughout the country, all the way to California." He recalled that he had received expressions of support from not a few of the "great many enemies" that he said Mr. Roosevelt had.
        But Mr. Fish's outspoken opinions also won him critics and enemies before his 1944 defeat, in a re-election bid after his district was redrawn.  Dropped Opposition After Pearl
        Nonetheless, Mr. Fish expressed no regret, in the interview, for his opposition to World War II, which he dropped after the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.
        Hamilton Fish was born Dec. 7, 1888 in Garrison, N.Y., the son of another Hamilton Fish who served in Congress, and the grandson of yet another namesake, who had variously been a Governor of New York, a Senator from New York and a United States Secretary of State under President Grant in addition to serving in Congress.
        He graduated in 1910 from Harvard, where he was a star tackle and captain of the football team. He was the last surviving member of Walter Camp's all-time All-America football team, and was also a member of the College Football Hall of Fame.  First Elected as Bull Moose
        He won a New York State Assembly seat in 1912 as a member of the Progressive or "Bull Moose" Party founded by former President Theodore Roosevelt. He served in the Assembly until 1916.
        In World War I, Mr. Fish commanded black troops from New York's National Guard in the 369th Infantry Regiment, known as the Harlem Hellfighters. He won the Silver Star and the French Croix de Guerre and rose to major.
        As a Congressman, Mr. Fish became the ranking Republican on the House Rules Committee, where he worked against much Roosevelt legislation. He also became the ranking Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
        On Aug. 14, 1939, Mr. Fish, while visiting with various Foreign Ministers, had tea with the German Foreign Minister, Joachim von Ribbentrop, at a castle outside Salzburg, which was then part of Nazi Germany.  Von Ribbentrop's Airplane
        He then flew on to Oslo on a German Government plane provided by von Ribbentrop -- a trip that drew criticism over the years.
        But Hamilton Fish Jr. said in an interview yesterday that von Ribbentrop had delayed his father, and that the plane was the only way to reach Oslo in time to take part in a conference there about tensions in Europe.
        Soon after Pearl Harbor, Mr. Fish declared in a speech that "there can be only one answer to the treacherous attack of the Japanese, and that is war to final victory, cost what it may in blood, treasure and tears."
        At a 100th birthday party for Mr. Fish, one of his grandchildren, also named Hamilton Fish, said that his well-being was in part because "the resurgence of conservatism in the last 10 years or so in the country has given him enormous pleasure."
        Mr. Fish was married in 1920 to Grace Chapin, who died in 1960. He married Marie Blackton in 1967 and she died in 1974. He married Alice Desmond in 1976; they divorced in 1984.
        He is survived by his fourth wife, the former Lydia Ambrogio, whom he married in 1988; two children by his first marriage, his son, who is serving his 12th term in Congress; and a daughter, Elizabeth S. Pyne of Mercer County, N.J.; eight grandchildren; five great-grandchildren, and five stepchildren. One grandson, Hamilton Fish, is a liberal who published The Nation for a decade and was defeated in 1988 in a Democratic primary for a Westchester Congressional seat.
        The funeral is scheduled at 11 A.M. Saturday in the cadet chapel at the United States Military Academy in West Point. Burial will be private.
      