
        Marko Nikezic, a former Foreign Minister of Yugoslavia who was considered the leading liberal politician of Serbia in the postwar era, died of intestinal cancer Sunday night in Belgrade. He was 69 years old.
        In 1972, he was head of the Serbian Communist Party, the largest party formation in the country, when President Tito compelled him and dozens of his closest associates to resign after accusing them of "liberalism." Mr. Nikezic had advocated and fostered an independent press, a market-oriented economy and the "democratization of decision-making."
        Tito's assault on the Serbian leadership was the climax of a campaign he had begun the previous year in the Croatian republic to remove all challengers to his authority. It had the effect of postponing the evolution of Yugoslavia as a whole, and Serbia in particular, toward a more democratic society until well after Tito's death in 1980.
        Even though removed from the political scene, Mr. Nikezic remained, in the words of Aleksandr Nenadovic, a longtime associate, "the center of gravity" for Serbs seeking to revive their nation's democratic parliamentary traditions of the 19th century.
        In retirement Mr. Nikezic became an accomplished sculptor, and an exhibition of his works in marble and wood is being planned in Belgrade. Fought Nazi Occupation
        Soft-spoken and deliberate in his choice of words, Mr. Nikezic joined the Communist Party at 19 and became a Partisan guerrilla fighting the Nazi occupation in 1941. The German military command put a price on his head in posters distributed around Belgrade. He was subsequently decorated for bravery. His wife, Zora, was also a Partisan.
        A former student of architecture, he entered the diplomatic service in 1951 and served in Egypt and Ethiopia. He was appointed ambassador to Prague in 1956 and was named ambassador to Washington in 1958 at 37.
        He became Foreign Minister in 1965 and in the Prague Spring of 1968 journeyed to the Czechoslovak capital to praise the democratization process under way there. Following the Soviet bloc invasion of that country, he was elected chairman of the Serbian Communists.
        His father, Petar, was an engineer; his mother, Suzanne, was French. He was born in Belgrade in 1921.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Branko and Zoran, and two grandchildren.
      