
        Katie Louchheim, a former State Department official and a former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee who was a prominent figure in the social life of Washington for four decades, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87 years old.
        Mrs. Louchheim, who had been in failing health for the last few years, died of pneumonia, her family said.
        Although she never held elective office, her influence in politics was considerable, beginning in 1934 when she arrived in Washington with her husband, Walter, a Manhattan investment counselor. He had been called on to help organize the Securities and Exchange Commission in the early days of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal.
        Mrs. Louchheim was also a poet, and the Louchheims' house in Georgetown soon became a meeting place for people in politics and the arts. A vivacious woman of enormous energy, she plunged into Democratic Party affairs and worked her way up to become vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee from 1956 to 1960. Posts in United Nations
        Along the way, she held various appointed government posts. In World War II she served in the Office of Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation and helped form its United Nations counterpart, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, for which she went to Europe in 1945 to arrange press relations at camps for displaced people.
        President John F. Kennedy gave her a post in the State Department, and within two years she was named Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, at that time the highest job in the department ever held by a woman.
        She moved to other State Department posts through the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson and was United States Ambassador to the United Nations Economic, Scientific and Cultural Organization until 1969, when the Republicans took power under President Richard M. Nixon. Rejected Republican Roots
        Mrs. Louchheim was born in Manhattan in 1903. Named Kathleen Scofield, she was known for most of her life as Katie. The daughter of a Manhattan stockbroker, she grew up in Republican surroundings; when she moved to Washington in Roosevelt's first term she was a prime example of what people called "a traitor to one's class."
        She attended Rosemary Hall in Greenwich, Conn., and studied in Europe before marrying Mr. Louchheim in 1926.
        She published a collection of poems, "With or Without Roses," in 1966. Her autobiography, "By the Political Sea," came out in 1970. She wrote "The Making of the New Deal -- The Insiders Speak," published by Harvard University Press in 1983.
        After her husband died in 1973, Mrs. Louchheim moved back to Manhattan. In 1981 she married Donald S. Klopfer, a co-founder of the publishing concern Random House; he died in 1986.
        She is survived by two daughters, Mary Evangelista of Manhattan and Judith Read of Darien, Conn.; three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      