
        Aaron Siskind, a photographer best known for his nearly abstract black-and-white pictures and a major influence on the development of postwar art photography, died yesterday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Siskind had suffered a stroke at his home in Providence on Thursday night, said Judith Jacobs, a friend.
        As a photographer and as a teacher of photography, Mr. Siskind sought to demonstrate the expressive potential of a medium often thought to be limited to mere description. His mature work, consisting of close-up details of painted walls, asphalt pavement, rocks and lava flows, represents a bold refusal of the camera's customary perspectival depth. 'First, and emphatically, I accept the flat plane of the picture surface as the primary frame of reference of the picture,' he wrote in 1950.
        His allegiance to the flat plane of the picture surface was shared by the Abstract Expressionist painters of the time, many of whom were his friends. As a result, his work is often compared to Abstract Expressionism, and especially to the paintings of Franz Kline. But Mr. Siskind was not an imitator of the New York School of painting; he could be said to have influenced Kline as much as Kline influenced him. In addition, his pictures have both the traditional descriptiveness of conventional photographs and a graphic, metaphoric emotional power.
        They also frequently record, if only by implication, frustrated attempts at human communication. As a frequent visitor to Mexico and South America in the 1970's and 80's, he focused on remnants of scrawled political slogans that had been repainted to obliterate their original messages. Transformed into black-and-white photographs, these messages become unintelligible traces of strong feelings.  Began as Documentarian
        Aaron Siskind was born in New York City on Dec. 4, 1903, and grew up on the Lower East Side. After graduation from City College, he became a public school English teacher, but soon became attracted to documentary photography. He joined the documentary-based Photo League in the early 1930's and photographed extensively in Harlem throughout the decade.
        In the early 40's, however, Mr. Siskind's work grew increasingly spare and abstract, and by 1950 he had completely departed from his earlier documentary style. For the next 40 years, he concentrated on finding expressive details and sometimes anthropomorphic fragments in mostly mundane subject matter.
        To support his career, Mr. Siskind taught photography, joining the photographer Harry Callahan at the Institute of Design of the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. There, in a program originally begun by the Bauhaus designer and photographer Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Mr. Siskind taught Tom Barrow, Linda Connor, Ken Josephson, Joseph Jachna, Ray Metzker and other photographers to think of photographs in primarily graphic terms. At the same time, however, he taught classes in documentary photography, encouraging the kind of socially oriented picture-taking of his Photo League years.
        Mr. Siskind also taught for several years in Providence at the Rhode Island School of Design, which named the photography study center of its museum after him.  A Current Exhibition
        Mr. Siskind's photographs were exhibited widely during his lifetime. He had several influential shows at Manhattan galleries in the late 1940's and in the 70's and 80's, and in 1974 the Center for Creative Photography in Tucson organized a traveling retrospective selected from its archive of his work. In the fall of 1989, the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan presented 'Siskind From the Collection.' His Photo League pictures are currently on view at the National Museum of American Art in Washington, in an exhibition called 'Harlem Photographs by Aaron Siskind, 1932-1940.'
        Several books of Mr. Siskind's photographs have been published, including 'Places' (1976), with an essay by the art critic Thomas B. Hess, and 'Aaron Siskind: Pleasures and Terrors' (1983), which includes a biography by the art historian Carl Chiarenza.
        Mr. Siskind is survived by a daughter, Isabella Brandt Johansen; two sisters, Mollie Milowitz and Sadie Klein, and two grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held in Providence on Friday at 4 P.M. in the Rhode Island School of Design auditorium, and in New York on Feb. 20 at 10 A.M. at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street in Manhattan.
        Correction Appended
        An obituary headline on Saturday about Aaron Siskind, photographer, misstated his age. He was 87.
      