
        Sir Lawrence Gowing, a painter, writer, curator and teacher who was a key figure in British art circles for many years, died early Tuesday at Charing Cross Hospital in London. He was 72 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his wife, Jenny, said.
        Sir Lawrence made his mark in the 1940's as a painter of portraits and landscapes. A pupil of William Coldstream and a protege of the veteran Bloomsbury art critic Clive Bell, he was in demand throughout his life for informal but definitive portraits of eminent and very old men. Among those he painted were Lord Attlee (former Prime Minister), Lord Halifax (former Foreign Secretary), Lord Adrian (pioneer of the electroencephalograph) and the Mozart scholar Edward J. Dent.
        But from 1948 onward he spent more and more of his time as a teacher, a writer on art, a ranking authority on Cezanne, a quintessential committee man and charter member of the English Establishment. In art schools in Newcastle (1948-58) and Chelsea (1958-65) and as principal of the Slade School at London University (1975-85) he was able to satisfy a passion for involvement in every aspect of the educational process. Wrote Books and Catalogues
        As a writer, Sir Lawrence produced enduring books and exhibition catalogues on Vermeer, Hogarth, Cezanne, Turner, Matisse and Lucian Freud. His exhibition "Turner: Imagination and Reality" at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City in 1966 was a major event, as were his Matisse exhibitions in New York City and London in 1966 and 1968.
        His delight in being everywhere and doing everything was evident during his years as a trustee of the Tate Gallery, the National Portrait Gallery and the British Museum. As a member of the Arts Council of Great Britain he exerted a formidable influence upon British officialdom.
        Elected an associate of the Royal Academy in 1978, he was appointed honorary curator of its collections in 1985. In 1983, a retrospective exhibition of his paintings was held at the Serpentine Gallery in London.
        Perhaps his greatest achievement as an exhibition organizer was "Cezanne: The Early Years," which was seen in 1988-89 at the Royal Academy in London, the Musee d'Orsay in Paris and the National Gallery in Washington. Anglo-American Projects
        In the United States, Sir Lawrence embarked upon a second career in his late 60's, traveling between London and Washington, where he served as Kress Professor at the National Gallery of Art. He organized with Robert Cafritz an evocative survey of the pastoral theme in painting, which was shared by the National Gallery and the Phillips Collection.
        His new career was cut short when his physicians told him that he should no longer travel by air, and he was seriously injured in a car accident in 1989. But he continued to write and talk with unabated enthusiasm.
        Lawrence Burnett Gowing, the son of Horace Burnett Gowing, a draper, and his wife, Louisa, was born in London on April 21, 1918. His first acclaimed painting, "Mare Street, Hackney," in 1937, was a covert elegy for his father's failed shop, which appears in one corner of the canvas.
        He was reared in London and educated at Leighton Park School. In 1938, he enrolled in the Euston Road School and for the rest of his life he was a devoted friend and colleague of its founder, William Coldstream.
        Sir Lawrence's first marriage, to the novelist Julia Strachey, ended in divorce. He married Jenny Wallis in 1966. He was knighted in 1982, and in 1987, the French Government made him a chevalier in the Order of Arts and Letters.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters.
      