
        Frank Anthony Rose, the president of the University of Alabama from 1958 to 1969, the era when it was peacefully desegregated, died Friday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 70 years old and had homes in Washington and Lexington, Ky.
        He died of cancer and pneumonia, a family spokesman said.
        With tact and diplomacy, Dr. Rose acted as the middleman in the June 1963 confrontation between Gov. George C. Wallace and the Justice Department of the Kennedy Administration. The university president, who described himself as neither a segregationist nor an integrationist but a realist, had vowed to help insure obedience to the laws and peace on the campus.
        So when the Alabama Governor stood defiantly in front of a campus door and raised a hand against federalized troops, but stepped aside moments later, two black students were enrolled without further incident.  Raised Faculty Pay and Morale
        In his 11-year tenure at the university, Dr. Rose increased the faculty and its pay and morale, raised tens of million of dollars in research funds, tightened academic standards, expanded the graduate departments and helped build football teams that won national championships.
        A 6-foot-2-inch Mississippian, he excelled as an administrator, fund-raiser and university spokesman rather than as an academician, and was popular with business leaders and politicians. When accused of stressing sports over scholarship, he replied simply, "Character is not built by a losing team."
        Dr. Rose left Alabama in 1969 for Washington, where he founded and headed a not-for-profit consulting concern, University Associates, with clients that included black colleges. The company later merged with Cassidy & Associates, a public affairs concern, and he remained a senior consultant.
        Frank Anthony Rose was born in Meridian, Miss., on Oct. 16, 1920. His father died when he was 10, and early on he picked cotton at 50 cents a day and later plowed fields and drove soft-drink trucks to earn money to go to Transylvania College in Lexington, Ky., where he earned bachelor's degrees in philosophy and divinity and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.  A College President at 31
        He taught at the college while preaching as an ordained minister in the Disciples of Christ. At the age of 31, he became president of Transylvania, serving for seven years until he accepted the presidency at Alabama. He was awarded honorary doctorates by more than a dozen universities.
        Over the years, Dr. Rose held many advisory posts with groups like the Salk Institute for Biological Studies; the White House committee on education and minority affairs, and the governing boards of Georgetown University and its medical center, the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Christian Church Foundation.
        Surviving are his wife of 48 years, Tommye; two daughters, Susan Dabny of Lexington and Elizabeth Rose of Pensacola, Fla.; two sons, Frank Jr., of Mobile, Ala., and Julian, of Dallas; a brother, Ramon, of Dallas, and eight grandchildren.
      