
        Slim Gaillard, an innovative jazz musician and composer whose best-known songs include "Flat Foot Floogie," "Tutti Frutti" and "Cement Mixer," died on Tuesday at University College Hospital in London. He was 74 years old.
        He died of cancer, his son, Mark, said.
        Mr. Gaillard was best known as a member of the duo Slim and Slam, with the bassist Slam Stewart. The pair wrote and recorded a number of hit songs in the 1930's, including "Flat Foot Floogie" in 1938. Many of their compositions employed the eccentric vocabulary they dubbed "Vout-Orooni," a mixture of jazz slang and nonsense words.
        He also performed and recorded with such musicians as Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Parker and Thelonious Monk, and acted in several films in Hollywood and Britain, among them "Hellzapoppin," and "Absolute Beginners" with David Bowie. The Gift of Laughter
        Mr. Gaillard said he was born in Cuba, although the New Grove Dictionary of Jazz lists his birthplace as Detroit. His given name was Bulee, although he was nicknamed Slim early in his career. He moved to London in the early 1980's and performed regularly in jazz clubs there.
        "He could walk into a club and just take over and make everybody laugh," said his son, who lives in Los Angeles. "There's a great tune that just describes his life: 'Laughing in Rhythm.' He's laughing through the song and by the end of the song, everybody's laughing. He was a cartoon character. Everybody loved him." A Backhand Competence
        Known for his ability to play piano with the backs of his hands, the smooth-voiced Mr. Gaillard also played guitar. He was featured in a four-part British Broadcasting Corporation series in 1989.
        One of his last performances was on the recently released single "Easy to Put Together, But Hard to Take Apart" by the jazz-influenced rap group the Dream Warriors.
        Funeral plans include ceremonies in London this week and in Los Angeles next week, but the dates have not been set, his son said.
      