
        Denys Sutton, an art critic, historian and editor who was a brisk and contentious figure on the international art scene for more than 40 years, died Wednesday at his home in London. He was 73 years old.
        He died of melanoma, said his wife, Cynthia.
        As editor of Apollo magazine from 1962 to 1987, Mr. Sutton kept his readers in touch with both the international museum world and independent scholarship. His specialty was the in-depth survey of a single museum, with the help of up to a dozen articles by specialists and a long introduction by himself.
        Mr. Sutton also organized a wide range of exhibitions, from "Pierre Bonnard" and "France in the 18th Century" at the Royal Academy in London in the 1960's to "Fragonard," "Boucher," "Constable," "Whistler," "Sargent" and "French Art" in Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan, in the 1980's. He was also responsible for exhibitions at Wildenstein & Company galleries in both London and New York City. A Stream of Books
        He published a continual stream of books, catalogues and essays from 1946 on and also was art critic of The Financial Times of London. His large-scale book "Degas: The Man and the Work," published in 1986, summed up a lifetime of allegiance to its great subject. Not long before his death, Mr. Sutton completed his memoirs.
        As well known in France as in Britain -- in particular for a lifetime of contributions to the Gazette des Beaux-Arts -- he was a corresponding member of the Institut de France and a chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
        Denys Miller Sutton was born in London on Aug. 10, 1917, the son of Edmund Sutton and his wife, Dulcie Laura Wheeler. Educated at Uppingham School and Exeter College, Oxford, he served from 1940 to 1945 in the Foreign Office Research Department. While a visiting lecturer at Yale in 1949, he wrote a pioneering essay for Horizon magazine in London on new American painting. After the death of his friend Nicolas de Stael, the Russian-born painter, in in 1955, he concentrated less and less on contemporary art, preferring to deal with Old Masters and with Asian art.
        He married Sonja Klibansky in 1942 and Gertrud Koebke-Knudson in 1952; both marriages ended in divorce. In 1960 he married Cynthia Sassoon, who survives him. He is also survived by a daughter, Madeleine O'Broin, and a son, Caspar.
      