
        John Charles Daly Jr. whose affable charm was the hallmark of one of television's most enduring game shows, "What's My Line ?," died yesterday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 77 years old.
        He died of cardiac arrest, said a son, John Neal Daly of Greenwich, Conn.
        Mr. Daly had a solid career as a reporter and news executive both before and after his term on the quiz show, but nothing was to surpass the popularity he enjoyed in millions of American homes on Sunday evenings from 1950 to 1967.
        The show consisted of four blindfolded panelists trying to identify a guest through yes-or-no questions. Mr. Daly managed to keep a straight face as he greeted each guest with the words, "Sign in, please." The guest thereupon autographed a blackboard for an audience that had often already made the identification and loudly applauded. Facts and Humor
        The actress Arlene Francis, the columnist Dorothy Kilgallen, and Bennett Cerf, the chairman of Random House, were longtime panelists. The fourth panelist often lent a comedic touch: during Ernie Kovacs's appearance on the panel, the automobile manufacturer Henry J. Kaiser was a guest. Mr. Kovacs asked if his name was identified with cars and was told, "Yes." Mr. Kovacs then asked with the utmost seriousness: "Are you -- and this is just a wild guess -- are you Abraham Lincoln?"
        There were occasional embarrassing moments. The popular singer Eddie Fisher made two appearances and remained unidentified by the panel.
        The show was so popular that it was able to attract such guests as Eleanor Roosevelt, Marian Anderson, Noel Coward and Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas. Born in South Africa
        Mr. Daly was born on Feb. 20, 1914, in Johannesburg, South Africa, where his father, an American, worked as a geologist. When his father died of tropical fever, his mother took him and his older brother to Boston. He studied at Tilton School in Tilton, N.H., attended junior college there, and completed his education at Boston College.
        He worked for a time in a wool factory and for a transit company in Washington before becoming a reporter for NBC Radio and then CBS. He served as White House correspondent for CBS, and eventually traveled the globe reporting for the CBS Radio Network.
        In 1948, fearful that there would be no place for him in the developing medium of television, Mr. Daly tried to find work with a newspaper. A friend persuaded him to appear as a panelist on a quiz show called "Celebrity Time," and the camera caught the warmth and humor in his personality that still photographs had not.
        When he agreed to take the job as host of "What's My Line?" in 1950, he was told it would last about six months. Its long life and his popularity on the show led to a vice-presidency at ABC in charge of news, special events, public affairs, religious programs and sports. A Year at Voice of America
        When the show ended after 17 years on the air, Mr. Daly was named director of the Voice of America. He resigned after one year because of a dispute over personnel with the director of the United States Information Agency, which ran the Voice of America.
        Mr. Daly's first marriage ended in divorce. In addition to John Neal, his children from that marriage are John Charles 3d of Santa Rosa, Calif., and Helene Fitzgerald of Harrison, N.Y.
        Mr. Daly is survived also by his second wife, Virginia, of Chevy Chase, Md., a daughter of the late Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren. Their children are John Warren Daly of Los Angeles; John Earl Jameson Daly of Eureka, Calif., and Nina Elisabeth Abath Taylor of Marina del Rey, Calif. It has been a Daly family tradition for four generations to give each son the first name John.
      