
        Karl L. Rankin, a career diplomat who was Ambassador to Taiwan and to Yugoslavia before he retired in 1961 after 34 years with the State Department, died Jan. 15 at Huntington Commons Health Care Facility in Kennebunk, Me. He was 92 years old and lived in Kennebunkport, Me., and Punta Gorda, Fla.
        He died of prostate cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Rankin's extensive service abroad included several hazardous assignments. In 1940 he was in Brussels when the Nazis overran Belgium. The next year he was in Belgrade when the Luftwaffe blitzed the Yugoslav capital. And when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor and invaded the Philippines in December 1941, he was in Manila, where he was soon interned by the Japanese.
        He spent 21 months in detention before being repatriated in an exchange of prisoners. After an assignment in Cairo, he was sent in 1944 to what should have been a relatively peaceful post in liberated Greece. But in December of that year, rioting in Athens swelled into a Communist attempt to seize power. When the British Government sent in troops and the Royal Air Force to defend the Greek Government, Mr. Rankin found himself again in the thick of combat.
        In 1948 he was appointed a career minister, traditionally the highest rank for nonpolitical appointees in the State Department. But after serving in posts in the Far East, including three years as minister and charge d'affaires in Taiwan, he was named Ambassador to the Nationalist Government of Chiang Kai-shek in Taiwan, making the leap into a major diplomatic assignment theretofore reserved for wealthy or influential members of the President's political party.
        In 1958 Mr. Rankin was given another ambassadorial post, back in Belgrade, where he completed his State Department service. In 1964 he wrote a book, "China Assignment," about the seven years he worked in Taiwan. Starting a New Career
        Karl Lott Rankin was born in Manitowoc, Wis., and grew up in Topeka, Kan. He studied at the California Institute of Technology and the Federal Polytechnic Institute in Zurich before receiving a degree in civil engineering from Princeton University.
        After Navy service in World War I, he became a field engineer in Turkey. He also supervised construction for Near East Relief in the Caucasus of the Soviet Union from 1922 to 1925. He then returned to the United States to manage a real-estate development company in Linden, N.J.
        In 1927 Mr. Rankin, who was often known as K. L., switched careers and entered the Foreign Service. His first assignment was as assistant trade commissioner in Prague, where he later became commercial attache. Similiar service followed in Athens, Tirana, Albania, and Brussels. He achieved the rank of consul in 1940, serving in Belgrade. He was on his way to a new post in Cairo in late 1941 by way of Manila when he was interned by the Japanese.
        Mr. Rankin's first wife, the former Pauline Jordan, whom he married in 1925, died in 1976. He is survived by his second wife, the former Ruth Thompson Garcelon, whom he married in 1978.
      