
        Richard Englund, the director of the second company of the Joffrey Ballet, the former director of American Ballet Theater's second company and a leader in the American regional ballet movement, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 59 years old.
        He died of cancer, said his wife, Gage.
        A cultivated man with a wide knowledge of the arts, Mr. Englund trained young dancers to be sensitive to nuances of style and he acquainted them with anatomy, notation, dance history and stage makeup. He encouraged new choreographers and at the time of his death was supervising a choreographic workshop for his company, the Joffrey II Dancers.
        Mr. Englund was born in Seattle, where he studied ballet with Mary Ann Wells, who was also a teacher of the choreographers Robert Joffrey and Gerald Arpino. He attended Harvard University and the Juilliard School and studied dance in New York with Antony Tudor, Margaret Craske, Vera Volkova, Martha Graham and Merce Cunningham. He performed with the Jose Limon Company, the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, the National Ballet of Canada and American Ballet Theater, and in the musicals "Greenwillow," "Camelot" and "The Happiest Girl in the World."
        A Leading Company
        Mr. Englund married the dancer Gage Bush in 1959. They settled in her home town of Birmingham, Ala., where Mr. Englund directed the Birmingham Ballet, making it one of the South's leading companies.
        Over the years he choreographed for many regional groups, as well as for the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, the American Dance Festival, the Juilliard Dance Ensemble and the North Carolina School of the Arts. Among his most frequently revived works are "Jigs 'n' Reels," which combines classical ballet with Scottish folk-dance steps, and "Crazy Quilt," which is inspired by traditional quilting patterns. He also created full-evening versions of "Romeo and Juliet" and "Beauty and the Beast."
        The Englunds returned to the New York area in 1967, when Mr. Englund established the Huntington Dance Ensemble, which, under auspices of the Huntington (L.I.) Performing Arts Foundation, gave school performances and programs for the general public.  Founded Touring Group
        In 1970, he founded the Dance Repertory Company, a touring group that offered both balletic and modern-dance works. The group, renamed Ballet Repertory Company in 1972, toured under auspices of American Ballet Theater, performing in 41 states, as well as in Mexico, Portugal and South Korea. In a review in The New York Times in 1974, Anna Kisselgoff praised the young company as "a sleek-looking troupe with a mature manner." Ballet Repertory Company changed its name to American Ballet Theater II in 1981. Mr. Englund was also co-director, with Oliver Smith, of American Ballet Theater's Emerging Artists Laboratory, a choreographic workshop that staged works from 1981 to 1983.
        Appointed director of the Joffrey II Dancers in 1985, Mr. Englund continued to train dancers and develop choreographers. He served on the dance panel of both the National Endowment for the Arts and the New York State Council on the Arts.
        He is survived by his wife and two daughters, Alixandra and Rachel.
        Funeral services will be private.
      