
        John Sloan Dickey, a lawyer who was president of Dartmouth College from 1945 to 1970, died Saturday in the campus infirmary. He was 83 years old and lived in Hanover, N.H.
        He had been severely ill since he suffered a stroke nine years ago, a family spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Dickey took office at the nation's ninth-oldest college less than 90 days after the end of World War II and presided over the education of 17,000 of Dartmouth's 33,000 living alumni.
        Under Mr. Dickey, Dartmouth's 12th president, the faculty and graduate schools were greatly strengthened, the student body was diversified with more minority students and a Great Issues course was required for all seniors to underscore the responsibility of free citizens in the nuclear age.
        Twenty buildings were added, with a centerpiece of four spacious, interconnected structures designed as a cultural and social crossroads for the rolling 75-acre campus. The endowment increased to $114 million, from $22 million.  Alumni Are Loyal
        Mr. Dickey's dedication to Dartmouth was acknowledged by annual alumni contributions, which rose to more than $2 million, from $337,000, with up to 66 percent of the alumni contributing, the highest percentage in the nation for a major school.
        Mr. Dickey was a longtime champion of the liberal arts and sciences, the "liberating arts," he called them, and after his presidency he was Dartmouth's Bicentennial Professor of Public Affairs, teaching courses in his speciality, Canadian-American relations, for nearly a decade. His awards included honorary doctorates from more than 15 universities.
        John Sloan Dickey, the son of a manufacturer, was born Nov. 4, 1907, in Lock Haven, Pa. As a Dartmouth undergraduate, the restless 6-footer and baldish outdoorsman played basketball and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. After graduating from Dartmouth and Harvard Law School, he was admitted to the Massachusetts bar.
        Over the next 13 years he practiced law intermittently but gave most of his time to public service, mostly in the State Department, as an aide to Cordell Hull and Dean Acheson and in helping to found the United Nations in 1945. In later years, he was a governor, adviser or trustee of many governmental and educational organizations.
        Surviving is his wife of 58 years, Christina; two daughters, Sylvia of Wellesley, Mass., and Christina Stearns of Gansevort, N.Y.; a son, John S. Jr. of San Antonio; two sisters, Louise Stolz of Frederick, Md., and Gretchen of Lock Haven; two brothers, Dr. Robert of Danville, Pa., and Donald of Lock Haven, and three grandchildren.
      