
        Salvador E. Luria, a biologist and physician who shared a 1969 Nobel Prize for his pioneering work in medicine and physiology, died yesterday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 78 years old.
        Dr. Luria suffered a heart attack, said a spokesman for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Dr. Luria had taught since 1959.
        He won the Nobel Prize for research he did in a loose association with Max Delbruck of the California Institute of Technology and Alfred D. Hershey of the Carnegie Institution's genetics research laboratory in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.
        The three were cited for their "discoveries concerning the replication mechanism and the genetic structure of viruses." Their work began the transformation of genetics and contributed to the foundation on which modern molecular biology rests. It shed much light on how viruses work and how more complex organisms reproduce and pass on hereditary characteristics. Active in Peace Movement
        Dr. Luria, who was born in Turin, Italy, was also widely known as an active member of the peace movement and was outspokenly critical of the Israeli invasion of Lebanon and the American intervention in Vietnam.
        Apparently because of his candor and independence on such issues, his name appeared on a Federal blacklist of 48 scientists in 1969, the year he won the Nobel Prize.
        The National Institutes of Health, which drew up the blacklist, never specified why Dr. Luria, a Jew who became a United States citizen in 1947 after having fled Fascist Italy nine years earlier, should be barred from the institutes' panels.
        Dr. Luria was also a critic of what he regarded as a lack of safeguards on nuclear power. In 1976 he joined other scientists in calling for a halt to the building of new atomic power plants.
        Besides the work that won the Nobel Prize, Dr. Luria organized a teaching and research program in microbiology at M.I.T. and later founded the M.I.T. Center for Cancer Research, which he directed from 1972 until 1985. A Highly Esteemed Title
        Although he retired from M.I.T. in 1978, he remained active there. At his death he was Institute Professor Emeritus, a title that M.I.T. reserves for the most esteemed members of its faculty.
        Dr. Luria's interest in the humanities rivaled his achievements in science. In 1985 he said scientists who "exile themselves from the arena of social struggles" were failing the societies they were supposed to serve.
        He urged his science students to develop interests in the humanities. Besides his lectures in science, he offered a course in world literature to graduate students at M.I.T.
        In 1974 he won a National Book Award in the Sciences for a nonacademic work, "Life: The Unfinished Experiment." The book, which was published by Charles Scribner's Sons, was translated into Italian, French, Spanish, German and Japanese. 'Active Participant' in Politics
        While Dr. Luria was angry over his blacklisting, it did not prevent him from confronting issues he regarded as important. "I made up my mind that as a citizen I would be an active participant in American politics," he once said, "taking advantage of the democratic opportunities that were not available to me in Italy."
        He added: "What scientific achievement I have reached is due to the freedom provided in this wealthy country to all aspects of intellectual enterprise."
        He advocated "human standards of justice, decency and compassion," and, in a letter to The New York Times in 1982, he said he thought that the Israeli military campaign in Lebanon "violates those standards."
        Salvador Edward Luria was born in 1912 and was graduated from the University of Turin, summa cum laude, in 1935. He became a radiology specialist in Rome, but fled Italy in 1938 and continued his research in Paris before immigrating to the United States in 1940. A Teacher and Lecturer
        He did graduate work at Columbia University for two years, and then did more work at Vanderbilt and Princeton universities.
        He taught at Indiana University from 1943 to 1959. Before joining M.I.T. he also lectured in biophysics at the University of Colorado, and was Jesup Lecturer in zoology at Columbia. In 1959 he was Niewland Lecturer in biology at the University of Notre Dame.
        He served since 1984 as senior scientist at the Repligen Corporation, a biotechnology company in Cambridge, Mass.
        Among his affiliations were the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Microbiology. He was president of microbiology academy in 1967 and 1968.
        He held many honorary doctorates, including ones from the University of Chicago, Brown University and the University of Palermo.
        Surviving are his wife, Zella Hurwitz Luria, a professor of psychology at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., and a son, Daniel, an economist. Funeral arrangements are private but M.I.T. said a memorial service would be held at a date to be announced.
      