
        Representative Silvio O. Conte, a combative Republican who battled, sometimes against his own party, for the poor, for students, for the environment and for medical research, died Friday night at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 69 years old.
        Doctors at the institutes said he died of extensive bleeding in the brain, brought on by progression of prostate cancer. He had undergone two brain operations after entering the hospital on Feb. 1.
        Mr. Conte, the senior Republican on the House Appropriations Committee and the only member of his party in the Massachusetts delegation, was beginning his 17th term in the House.
        Last month, he was one of only three House Republicans to vote against a resolution authorizing President Bush to begin a war against Iraq. When he did so, he recalled unhappily his 1964 vote in favor of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution that was cited as authority for widening the war in Vietnam. That vote, Mr. Conte said, led to "tragedy and needless loss of lives, and I pray this one will not."  Uniting Behind President
        He said he had believed that economic sanctions against Iraq should be given more time to work. But after Congress decided otherwise, he said: "It is time for our nation to unite. I am behind the President 100 percent from this day on."
        In more than three decades in the House, he was known both for his public, vocal outbursts against excesses of "pork" -- Federal aid to beekeepers was a particular target -- and for his expertise in getting things done through taking advantage of the rules of the House and through close friendships with other powerful Massachusetts lawmakers like Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the former Speaker of the House, a Democrat.
        Mr. Conte looked after his district, from the longtime friends he invited to an annual spring fishing tournament at a lakeside cottage near Pittsfield to the major colleges and universities like Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke, Smith, Williams and the University of Massachusetts.
        With Mr. O'Neill, he wrote legislation providing the poor with help to pay heating bills. He wrote the 1970 law creating Amtrak to preserve passenger rail travel. In 1983 he co-sponsored the first $5 million for research into AIDS, a program now at a $5 billion level. Election to State Senate
        Born in Pittsfield, he worked as a machinist and then served in the Seabees in the Southwest Pacific in World War II. Afterward he attended Boston College under the G.I. Bill of Rights, injuring a knee as a football player. He graduated from Boston College Law School in 1949 and was elected to the State Senate the next year.
        For friends and colleagues who wondered why he was a Republican, with a voting record that sometimes won 90 percent approval from the liberal Americans for Democratic Action, he said he had become a Republican as a young man when he could not get a job as a census worker. Democrats controlled those jobs, he said, and when he could not get one, he changed parties.
        Another blunt, characteristic decision was recalled by Fred Wertheimer, president of Common Cause, the public affairs group, who for many years was an aide to Mr. Conte on Capitol Hill. When Mr. Conte began to turn against the Vietnam War in the late 1960's and decided to call for a halt in the bombing, Mr. Wertheimer recalled, the lawmaker went to a veterans group in his district to make his first announcement.
        "We were talking about it the other day," Mr. Wertheimer said, and "he recalled they didn't like the speech very much." But the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the Disabled American Veterans all honored the lawmaker in recent years.
        Mr. Conte is survived by his wife, Corinne; four children, Michelle Webb of Hardwick, Mass., Sylvia Certo of Arlington, Va., John Conte of San Jose, Calif., and Gayle Fowler of Westminster, Md., and six grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be held at 2 P.M. Wednesday at St. Joseph's Church, 414 North Street, in Pittsfield. Burial will follow at St. Joseph's Cemetery.
        A memorial service will be held in the Capital Rotunda in Washington, on a date to be announced.
      