
        James L. Knight, chairman emeritus of Knight-Ridder Inc. and one of two brothers who built a family-owned newspaper chain into one of the country's largest, died Tuesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 years old and lived in Los Angeles and Miami Beach.
        He had been hospitalized for several months and died of a respiratory ailment, a hospital nursing supervisor said.
        Mr. Knight and his older brother, John, who died in 1981, inherited a debt-ridden Ohio newspaper, The Akron Beacon Journal, in the depths of the Great Depression. Their father, C. L. Knight, bought control of the paper in 1909, but it had fallen on hard times when he died in 1933.
        James Knight, who dropped out of college in 1931, was given a job by his father in the business department of The Beacon Journal. In 1937 the brothers acquired The Miami Herald, starting them on a path to building a chain that grew to include, among other daily newspapers, The Chicago Daily News and The Detroit Free Press.
        In 1974 they merged their group with Ridder Publications, gaining control of a media company that today owns 29 daily newspapers, cable television interests and other communications services.
        James Knight, 15 years younger than his brother, was the financial brain behind the partnership. John Knight was editorial director.
        "As a combination I think we were most unusual," James Knight once said, "and this has been partly responsible for our success. My interest was the nuts and bolts, and his was the product."
        John Knight gave this assessment of his younger brother: "There are very many able men, but very few wise men. I think Jim falls in the latter category."
        The brothers frequently disagreed on business decisions, but James Knight usually prevailed in his bailiwick. Against the advice of John Knight, the company bought The Charlotte Observer in North Carolina and The Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily News, acquisitions that proved lucrative.
        The Knights were known in journalism for establishing a firm separation between news and editorial decisions, on the one hand, and business decisions, on the other. Editors of the chain's individual newspapers, who enjoyed a large degree of independence from chain influence, reported to John Knight; business managers were responsible to James Knight.
        The company estimated that James Knight's holdings in the chain were worth more than $225 million. He was a major benefactor of the University of Miami and of other colleges, hospitals and charitable foundations.
        His first wife, the former Mary Ann Mather, died in 1985. He is survived by his second wife, the former Barbara Richardson; four daughters, Barbara Toomey of Sanibel, Fla., Marilyn North of Morganton, N.C.; Marjorie Crane of Racine, Wis., and Beverly Olson of Macon, Ga.; 11 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      