
        Phil Watson, who played on the last Rangers team to win the National Hockey League Stanley Cup, in 1940, and who later took the Rangers to the playoffs in three of his four seasons as a coach in the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 78 years old.
        His family said he had suffered a heart attack in his sleep.
        Mr. Watson was a crowd-pleasing forward on the great 1939-1940 team and a high-spirited coach of a succession of mediocre teams from 1955 through the 1958-59 season. Fierce Attacks
        His father was Scottish, his mother was French Canadian, and Phillipe Henri Watson, who was born in Montreal and began playing junior hockey at 15, spoke no English at all when he joined the Rangers in 1935.
        Thereafter, he was known almost as much for his fractured English as for his fierce attacks and expert shot making as a player and his outbursts as a coach.
        As a player he once denounced a rival as "a lousy been-has," and attributed his nervousness during a radio interview to "fright-mike."  A Remarkable Practice
        As a coach, Fiery Phil, as he was known, once held one of the most remarkable practices ever conducted in the N.H.L., as John Halligan, a former Rangers spokesman, who was there, recalled yesterday:
        "He was so disgusted with his players after they lost a game in the old Garden that after they had trudged off the ice he called them right back and put them through a grueling practice with wind sprints and everything. Hundreds of spectators, maybe thousands, stayed and watched. They'd never seen anything like it."
        At 5 feet 10 inches and 165 pounds, Mr. Watson had an oversized temper and a fighting technique to back it up during a scrappy career and numerous fights he started with far larger players. Secret to Survival
        He once explained the secret: "Always get in the first punch. I can set myself, but the fellow I hit is off balance. Then they break it up before anything more happens."
        In his 12 seasons as a player, Mr. Watson, who retired in 1948 but spent the 1943-44 season with the Montreal Canadiens because of Canadian wartime restrictions on travel abroad, scored 127 goals and had 233 assists in 546 games.
        In his four seasons as a coach, beginning in 1955-56, the Rangers compiled a won-lost-tied record of 118-124-52. They made it to the playoffs in each of Mr. Watson's first three seasons during a time when four teams in the six-team N.H.L. qualified for the post-season competition. Talking Too Much
        With Mr. Watson's death, only seven of the 15 Rangers on the 1940 championship team are still alive. One of them is Murray (Muzz) Patrick, who was Mr. Watson's roommate on the road during the championship season when Mr. Watson was the sparkplug on the high-scoring line that included Patrick's brother, Lynn, and Bryan Hextall.
        Muzz Patrick recalled yesterday that as the Ranger general manager he had hired Mr. Watson as coach and been forced to dismiss him, not, Patrick said, because the team had failed to make the playoffs the season before, but because Mr. Watson "sometimes talked too much," refusing to play private to the team's president, Gen. John Reed Kilpatrick.
        "He was my best friend, but I had to fire him," Patrick said. Coached the Bruins
        Mr. Watson was later hired by Patrick's brother, Lynn, then the general manager of the Boston Bruins, to coach the team for the 1961-62 season and part of the 1962-63 season.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Watson served as the general manager of the Philadelphia and later the Vancouver Blazers of the World Hockey Association.
        After that, his daughter said, he devoted himself primarily to fishing.
        Mr. Watson, whose first marriage, to the former Helen Anderson, ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Rosemarie; a daughter from his first marriage, Jane Winston of Los Angeles; a son from his second marriage, Peter, and two grandchildren.
      