
        Paul Harvey Aron, an economist who was an authority on Japanese investments, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart, liver and kidney failure, said his daughter, Laurie Joan Aron of Manhattan.
        Mr. Aron was perhaps best known for starting a new era of American investments in Japan and for bridging the divergent United States and Japanese financial systems.
        In 1969, as a portfolio adviser to the Dreyfus Corporation, he persuaded the mutual fund company to invest $140 million in Japanese stocks through Daiwa Securities Ltd. Since any revelation of major interest in a Japanese stock would push up the price, the purchases were made in secret and then announced after the deals were made.
        At the time it was the largest amount ever invested at one time by an American mutual fund and became known as the "Aron shock" in Tokyo markets.
        In 1976 Mr. Aron joined the United States unit of Daiwa Securities as an executive vice president. He was one of the first American executives to hold a responsible position in a Japanese investment company.
        "My job," he said, "was to be Mr. America, to explain what this meant, what that meant."
        He took the message of investing in Japan to executives across the country and in 1983 was appointed vice chairman of American operations for Daiwa.
        He helped the company expand in the United States from merely selling Japanese stock to American investors to offering a wide range of international investment services. He also helped Daiwa America become one of the first foreign-owned primary dealers in United States Government securities and a major underwriter of American corporate securities.
        He bridged the differing business cultures of the two countries and saw to it that American rules, rather than looser Japanese commercial customs, governed the business activities of the employees. And he helped lay the groundwork for Daiwa's lead in listing American securities on the Tokyo Exchange and trading them for Japanese clients.
        After his retirement, Mr. Aron remained with Daiwa as a senior adviser.
        Mr. Aron was born in Brooklyn in 1921 and graduated from City College and from Columbia University. He served with the United States Army and was a Russian-English interpreter for the American, British and Russian members of the Allied Control Commission for Austria. After the war he returned to Columbia to study at its Russian Institute.
        Until 1953 he taught history at several colleges in the metropolitan area, including Sarah Lawrence in Bronxville, N.Y. He then became a management consultant to American corporations and Government agencies until 1968, when he became involved with Wall Street.
        In 1972 he moved from the Dreyfus Fund, where he was vice president for research, to the College Retirement Equities Fund, a teachers' pension fund. As a vice president and investment officer here, he was part of a four-member team that managed a $4 billion portfolio.
        From 1981 to 1990, he published 37 reports on international investment, economic growth, accounting, technology, management and labor, with an emphasis on Japan. Since 1976 he had also taught international business and finance at the New York University Graduate School of Business.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, the former Beatrice Feinstein; two sons, Carl, of Manhattan, and David, of Shaker Heights, Ohio; a brother, William, of Seattle, and three grandchildren.
      