
        Robert Ferdinand Wagner, who oversaw a vivid transformation of the city's politics and even its personality in three terms as Mayor, died early yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        The police and emergency medical technicians were summoned at 3:30 A.M. to his town house on East 62d Street, where the ailing former Mayor was pronounced dead of heart failure. He had been suffering from bladder cancer.
        Mr. Wagner's cautious style frustrated his critics, but helped New York City cope with the accelerating pace of its social, economic and polical evolution. He presided from 1954 through 1965 with sagaciousness, grace and dry wit as the keystone of a political dynasty: his father was a United States Senator; his son, who is known as Robert F. Wagner Jr., has been elected and appointed to city posts in his own right.  Defeated His Mentors
        Only two other modern Mayors of New York City -- Fiorello H. La Guardia and Edward I. Koch -- served for 12 years, too. None surpassed Mr. Wagner's 1957 plurality of more than 920,000 votes. After he left City Hall, he was appointed a diplomat overseas and became a trusted adviser to political figures in New York, Albany and Washington. Twice, though, his "sentimental journey," as he once described it, to succeed his father in the Senate ended in failure.
        Yet his legacy for New York, a city that his father had adopted as a German immigrant, was profound. He was inaugurated as its 102d mayor during a period that, in retrospect, typified simpler times. When he left 12 years later, social and economic pressures had turned New York into a city that critics said epitomized the urban dilemma and his administration's reticence in responding to it.
        Flexing his political muscle, Mr. Wagner won infusions of state and Federal funds to clear slums in urban-renewal areas, build public housing and to help maintain the 15-cent subway fare. He granted collective-bargaining rights to municipal labor unions. He integrated government with more black and Hispanic appointees who began to reflect the city's rapidly changing population. And his third-term campaign against his estranged political mentors dealt the Democratic machine a defeat from which it has never recovered.
        His administration contributed to bringing Shakespeare to Central Park and a World's Fair to Flushing Meadow. But his city also lost two institutions, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the baseball Giants to California, although the Mayor was instrumental in luring another National League franchise, the Mets, to a new stadium in Queens.  'Servant of the People,' Who Was an Institution
        Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who once described Mr. Wagner as the city's greatest mayor, said yesterday: "A large, living piece of our best political history has fallen away, and there is nothing adequate to replace it. Robert Wagner was a superb public person, servant of the people and adviser to their leaders -- so great, he became and will remain an institution."
        Mayor David N. Dinkins, who ordered flags on municipal buildings to be flown at half-staff for 30 days, traced his own election as the city's first black mayor, in part, to Mr. Wagner's role in the election of the first black Democratic leader of Manhattan. Mr. Dinkins said Mr. Wagner "made dignity and decency the watchwords of a long career of government service."
        Former Mayor Koch said Mr. Wagner and La Guardia were the city's two best mayors. Former Mayor John V. Lindsay, a long-time antagonist, described Mr. Wagner, his immediate predecessor, as New York's "first modern mayor." He Never Succeeded At 'Sentimental Journey'
        Mr. Wagner started his political career as a protege of Tammany Hall, the Democratic Party machine that had controlled city affairs for most of 150 years. By 1961, he had broken with Tammany and its chief, Carmine G. De Sapio, and had defeated the organization. In defeating Tammany, he had espoused the self-designated Democratic reform movement, which he took over himself rather than becoming its servant.
        His greatest political failure came in 1956, when at the urging of former President Harry S. Truman and other powerful Democrats, he ran for the United States Senate against the Republican incumbent, Jacob K. Javits. President Dwight D. Eisenhower's sweep of the state in the election helped Mr. Javits win; Mr. Wagner never got another chance to run for the seat his father had once held. In 1952, the state party had rejected his offer to run against Senator Irving M. Ives.
        Publicly, Mr. Wagner denied he was disconsolate that he had never gone to Washington in his father's footsteps. Privately, he conceded that he would have liked to follow his father, also named Robert Ferdinand Wagner. Once his time had passed, the former Mayor harbored the same ambition for his own son.
        Mr. Wagner also failed in an attempt to gain the Democratic nomination for mayor in 1969, and in 1973 a deal that would have made him the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor also collapsed.
        In his later years, Mr. Wagner was active as a lawyer, and was periodically consulted in Washington and in Albany.
        Vicariously, he participated in politics and government through the career of his oldest son, Robert F. Jr., who was a City Councilman, an unsuccessful candidate for borough president of Manhattan, chairman of the City Planning Commission, a Deputy Mayor under Mr. Koch and head of the city's Board of Education from 1986 to 1990.
        Mayor Wagner had himself been chairman of the City Planning Commission and had served as Borough President on his way to City Hall.
        As Mayor and the most powerful figure in New York Democratic politics in the early 1960's, he was also a kingmaker, supporting John F. Kennedy over Adlai E. Stevenson for the Presidential nomination at the party's 1960 national convention. In 1964, Lyndon B. Johnson had Mr. Wagner sit near Mrs. Johnson at the party's national convention in Atlantic City, stimulating speculation that the Mayor might be Mr. Johnson's choice for Vice President. Expressed Special Pride In His Diplomatic Roles
        Mr. Johnson rewarded Mr. Wagner for his support in 1968 when he named him Ambassador to Spain, a post that Mr. Wagner held for nearly a year, resigning after the Nixon Administration arrived in Washington.
        In 1978, President Jimmy Carter, whose New York campaign he had supported in 1976, named him the unofficial United States representative to the Vatican, a post he held until 1981.
        By the end of the 1970's, Mr. Wagner had become as much a socially prominent figure in the city as a political one. His presence at nightclubs and social events, with his third wife, the former Phyllis Fraser Cerf, the widow of Bennett Cerf, the publisher and humor anthologist, was occasionally chronicled in gossip columns.
        Mr. Wagner and his first wife, the former Susan Edwards, the sister of his roommate at Yale, were married in the rectory of St. Patrick's Cathedral in 1942. They had two sons, Robert Jr., born in 1944, and Duncan, born three years later. Susan Wagner died of cancer in 1964, and when Mr. Wagner announced in June 1965 that he was not seeking re-election, he said, with tears running down his cheeks, that he was quitting public life to honor her last wish for him.
        In 1965, described by friends as lonely and depressed at his first wife's death, he married Barbara Jean Cavanagh, the sister of his former Fire Commissioner, Edward Cavanagh. The marriage ended in a civil divorce and church annulment in 1971. Mr. Wagner married Mrs. Cerf in 1975.
        Mr. Wagner was literally reared in the politics of the city he was to govern for 12 years. His mother died when he was 9 years old, and he was brought up in the Yorkville section of Manhattan by his father, who rose to be one of the most prominent and powerful supporters of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal.
        By the time that young Robert became Mayor, at the age of 43, the city was undergoing profound change as post-World-War-II prosperity enabled middle-class whites to start moving to the suburbs in waves. They were replaced largely by blacks from the South and Puerto Ricans lured here by the hope of better jobs and less racial discrimination than they had found in other parts of the country, as well as relatively generous welfare benefits.
        Mr. Wagner, even his critics acknowledged, grasped the enormity of the social problems that were accelerating and sought in a deliberate, methodical way to solve them. This quality of deliberation, which his detractors sometimes called indecision or ineptitude and which was often marked by the appointment of a study commission, he had learned from his father, who, the Mayor often repeated, had counseled him: "When in doubt, don't."
        The Mayor, in reviewing his career after announcing in 1965 that he would not seek re-election that year against his challenger, Mr. Lindsay, said of his own stewardship: "The days of scandal, the days of political influence, getting contracts and assistance from the city have disappeared, and I believe I hand on to my successor a government that had changed radically in this way." Was It Good Old Days Or the Crisis to Come?
        As Mayor, Mr. Wagner usually appeared placid, if not phlegmatic, in public. Privately, he had a sharp sense of humor that could deflate an adversary or break tension among his aides.
        In referring to his record in office in starting or completing several large slum-clearance and renewal projects, he acknowledged that he was disappointed with his administration's performance on housing by saying: "I had hoped we could have moved even faster in our clearing of the slums. We got bogged down in red tape here and in Washington."
        "I think part of the reason for the mistakes," he said, "was the fact that these were new programs and we had to feel our way along. I had hoped that we would be further on our way to the slumless city that I always said must be our goal."
        But whether the Wagner era at City Hall marked the peak of the good old days, or the beginning of the city's fiscal and social crises, is debatable. The Daily News sometimes praised him, but sometimes called him "Bumbling Bob." The New York Herald Tribune ran a series of articles in 1965, as its publisher, John Hay Whitney, was persuading Mr. Lindsay to run for Mayor, that portrayed a "city in crisis" and blamed Mr. Wagner.
        Years after he left office, Mr. Wagner recalled the series with a bitter smile, but remembered that The Herald Tribune had also written on its editorial page that "New York City has probably never been better governed" than under him. Relied on Financial Help From Rockefeller
        His contention that he had cleaned up city government was largely true. In his 12 years in office there were no major scandals, and the minor ones never came close to impugning Mr. Wagner's personal honesty. He was also credited by associates, friends and opponents as having generally raised the caliber of people he appointed to such high-level offices as commissioners.
        It was during his administrations that nonwhites began to get more and more jobs in the city's growing Civil Service ranks; antidiscrimination laws and the Mayor's personal policies were far in advance of the policies and practices of labor unions and private businesses.
        While city spending grew under Mr. Wagner, he was always able in his last two terms to persuade Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and the State Legislature to bail him out with more state aid or increased taxing power. Mr. Wagner and Mr. Rockefeller, although from opposing parties, trusted each other's word.
        During his administrations, Mr. Wagner was also instrumental in the establishment of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the creation of the city's part of the Gateway National Park, including the Jamaica Bay wildlife preserve and the beach at Breezy Point, Queens, and the fluoridation of the city's drinking-water supply.
        He was particularly proud that he had resisted opposition to letting Joseph Papp, later to become one of the most distinguished theatrical producers of public theater in the world, start his "Shakespeare in the Park" program in Central Park.
        "You know," he said years after he left office, "that I had a hell of a time with some people who told me not to let Joe Papp in because they said he was a Communist." Childhood Upbringing Of Opera and Poker
        Robert Ferdinand Wagner Jr., as he was known for much of his life, was born on April 20, 1910, in Yorkville, where his father, who would be elected to the Senate in 1925, was already one of the most prominent lawyers and politicians.
        When his mother, the former Margaret Mary McTague, died in 1919, young Robert's rearing was taken over by his father.
        The elder Mr. Wagner took his son to the opera on Friday nights, invited him to Washington frequently and let him watch the poker games played at their Yorkville home with politicians who included Alfred E. Smith, later Governor of New York and a Presidential candidate.
        The conversations that the future Mayor heard among the Roosevelt New Deal Democrats who visited the Wagner home helped form his political and personal manner. Long after he had become a wealthy lawyer, out of office, he retained his reputation as someone who would let almost anyone else pick up the bill for his breakfast or lunch.
        He was educated at the Loyola School, a Jesuit institution on Park Avenue, and at the Taft School, at Watertown, Conn. He received a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1933 and later studied at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration and the School of International Studies in Geneva. He received a law degree from Yale in 1937, the same year he was elected to the New York State Assembly and a year before he was admitted to the bar.
        During World War II he served in the Air Corps as an intelligence officer. Once, at an American air base in England, a plane returning from a combat mission tried to jettison its bombs in the Channel, but missed, hitting the base and ruining Mr. Wagner's hearing in his left ear. Before he left active duty as a lieutenant colonel, Mr. Wagner had received the Bronze Star and the French Croix de Guerre. After World War II, An Advancing Career
        After the war, his political career began to move swiftly, with his father's help and his own energy. He was a somewhat short, plump figure, which prompted William O'Dwyer, who was the Mayor then, to comment: "Here comes young Bob Wagner, wearing his father's pants."
        But Mayor O'Dwyer appointed the young man as City Tax Commissioner, and Mr. Wagner later also held appointive posts as Commissioner of Housing and Buildings and as chairman of the City Planning Commission. In 1949 he was elected Manhattan Borough President, defeating Oren Root.
        In November 1953, six months after his father's death, Mr. Wagner was elected Mayor for the first time, following a bitter fight among the city's five Democratic county organizations. None of the political machines had controlled the two previous Mayors, Mr. O'Dwyer and Vincent R. Impellitteri, and the leaders were lusting for their own winner.
        Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island, after a raucous meeting at the Commodore Hotel in July, decided to support Mr. Impellitteri. Manhattan's Tammany Hall leader, Mr. De Sapio, and the two Bronx leaders, Edward J. Flynn and Charles A. Buckley, announced their support for Mr. Wagner.
        Mr. Wagner defeated Mr. Impellitteri, easily in the primary. In the general election he was chosen Mayor with less than a majority of the votes cast, polling 1,021,488 votes to 661,410 for Harold Riegelman, a Republican, and 468,392 for City Council President Rudolph Halley, a Liberal who had gained national publicity as counsel for a Federal anti-crime commission that had held hearings in New York and elsewhere. Left Tammany Hall For Reform Movement
        In 1957, Mr. Wagner, running with the endorsement of the Democratic, Liberal and Fusion Parties, won by the largest plurality in the city's history -- 923,007 votes -- over the Republican, Robert K. Christenberry.
        His split with the Tammany and other county leaders began in 1958, when the regular state Democratic organization split with former Gov. Herbert H. Lehman and Eleanor Roosevelt in its choice of a candidate for the United States Senate. The division spawned the self-styled reform movement in New York City and forced Mr. Wagner, as he sought re-election in 1961, to choose.
        He went over to the reformers, now facing the ire and power of the very party leaders who had sponsored his first mayoral candidacy. The party's state chairman, Michael H. Prendergast, said of Mr. Wagner's political ability: "He's so light he could tap-dance on top of a Charlotte Russe," a whipped-cream and cake confection once sold widely on city streets in springtime.
        To oppose Mr. Wagner, his former supporters, whom he now called "the bosses," chose State Comptroller Arthur Levitt, a strong candidate in statewide races. Mr. Wagner won the primary with more than 60 percent of the vote. In the general election, Mr. Wagner defeated another statewide invincible, Louis J. Lefkowitz, the Republican State Attorney General who was widely known in the city, where he was born and raised on the Lower East Side. Mr. Wagner, running on the Democratic, Liberal and Brotherhood lines, defeated Mr. Lefkowitz and City Comptroller Lawrence E. Gerosa. Mr. Wagner had dropped Mr. Gerosa as his running mate in favor of his Budget Director, Abraham D. Beame, who had the support of the regular Brooklyn party organization. Developed the Ability To Eliminate Tension
        By his third term, Mr. Wagner had further developed, and in some ways changed, his manner of running the city. He was not a particularly early riser and was often late for his first appointment of the day. He chain-smoked cigarettes, a habit he did not stop until after he left office, and liked to drink bourbon. By 1962 he had stopped drinking bourbon, switching to dry vermouth, which, he said, allowed him to have a drink in his hand at the interminable round of parties and dinners he had to attend, without its affecting his concentration.
        While his public appearance was usually dour and somewhat uneasy and stiff, privately he could tell an off-color joke without seeming excessively vulgar, and he knew how to bring down the pompous and the outraged with a remark.
        During the newspaper strike negotiations that he brought to City Hall in early 1963, one of Mr. Wagner's aides, a man of short physical stature, burst into his office, furious, and shouted, "Do you know what burns my backside?" Mr. Wagner leveled his palm a few feet above the floor and said "Yeah, a flame about this high." The tension melted.
        After retiring from active politics, Mr. Wagner was consulted, and asked for support, by many prominent politicians, including Senator George McGovern, whose 1972 Presidential campaign was headed in New York by the former Mayor; Hugh L. Carey, a Brooklyn Congressman who successfully ran for Governor in 1974; President Carter, and two of Mr. Wagner's successors in City Hall, Mr. Beame and Edward I. Koch.
        In 1976, his law firm was merged into the firm that later became Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley, Myerson & Casey. He was a partner there until 1987 and then joined Fischbein, Badillo & Wagner. In the 1980's he also served as a member of the city's Charter Revision Commission. In 1989 New York University named its school of public service for him.  Found Few Politicians That He Could Trust
        Of the man who immediately followed him in City Hall, Mr. Wagner wrote, "Part of the reason the Lindsay administration never fulfilled its high promise stems from the impression held and proclaimed by the Mayor and his subordinates that nothing had ever happened in New York City until John Lindsay took office."
        Out of office, Mr. Wagner spoke more candidly of his personal feelings about politics and the city. "There aren't too many people you can trust," he said in an interview in 1965. "And after a while you begin to hold things to yourself."
        "Probably the most important appointment you make in a campaign headquarters," he said, "is your telephone operator."
        Mr. Wagner is survived by his wife, Phyllis and his two sons, Robert and Duncan.
        Visiting will be at Frank E. Campbell funeral chapel at 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, in Manhattan tomorrow and Friday from 7 to 9 P.M. A funeral Mass will be offered at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 10 A.M. Saturday.  A Feeling of Home On New York Sidewalks
        Mr. Wagner, who at various times had summer and weekend homes at Islip and Sands Point on Long Island and at Mount Kisco in Westchester County, always considered himself a New Yorker, an East Sider, and spent most of his time there. He said once that he had considered retiring to live "in the South or the Caribbean, or some place like that." Then he said:
        "I think that would be great, and I think I could take it for a month or two at a time. I'd always want to come back to New York -- my father's home and my home and, I think, now my sons' home in the years after I'm gone. And I feel a great love for this city, and I'm grateful to this city for the opportunity it gave my father to come up as a little immigrant boy to become the famous United States Senator. It gave me the chance to serve it here, and the privilege of being Mayor."
        "You know," he said, "they used to say years ago that New York will be a great city when it's finally built. But, of course, it just
        is
        a great city, even now," adding:
        "I don't know if it was Bugs Baer, but one of those wags of the past said, 'In the United States, once you leave New York City, everything else is Bridgeport.' "
        Correction:  February 14, 1991, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about former Mayor Robert F. Wagner of New York City misstated Jacob K. Javits's role in the 1956 race for the United States Senate. Mr. Wagner was defeated by Mr. Javits, a Republican who was then the State Attorney General. They competed for the seat vacated by Senator Herbert H. Lehman, who chose not to run again. Mr. Javits was not the incumbent.
      