
        Harold R. Medina Jr., a New York trial lawyer who was an authority on libel, privacy and copyright cases, died on Sunday at his home in Village of Golf, Fla. He was 78 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Medina's father, Harold Sr., a Federal district and appeals judge in Manhattan for more than three decades, died last March at the age of 102.
        The younger Mr. Medina (pronounced meh-DEEN-uh) made a name for himself in the law as a partner from 1949 to 1974 in the Manhattan firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. In his most celebrated case, which he won in the United States Supreme Court in 1967, he defended Life magazine in a lawsuit brought by a Connecticut family that claimed invasion of privacy because of the way its members were portrayed in a review of a 1955 Broadway play, "The Desperate Hours." Extending Press Protections
        In the case, Time v. Hill, the Supreme Court, on a 5-to-4 vote, accepted Mr. Medina's contention that articles or broadcasts that give a false impression of a person do not constitute an invasion of privacy unless the falsehood is published deliberately or recklessly. The case extended the constitutional protections of the press, which had previously been applied in libel actions, to a major category of invasion-of-privacy lawsuits.
        Mr. Medina was born in Manhattan, was a graduate of the Hill School and received a bachelor's degree summa cum laude from Princeton. After earning a law degree at Columbia in 1937, he joined Cravath, Swaine & Moore, where he spent his entire career.
        In addition to Life, Mr. Medina represented many other publications. He did extensive work in copyright and product-liability law, and shortly before he retired, he was handling 100 cases in various parts of the country.
        He was a Regent of the American Association of Trial Lawyers. An avid golfer, he moved to Village of Golf in 1975 and served as its vice mayor from 1982 until his death.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Janet Williams; two sons, Harold 3d of Rose Valley, Pa., and Robert, of Skillman, N.J.; a daughter, Ann Welch of Toronto; a brother, Standish, also a New York lawyer, of Morristown, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      