
        Bassett Maguire, a botanist who led many expeditions into nearly inaccessible reaches of Venezuela and Brazil, died on Wednesday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        He died of kidney failure, said a spokesman for the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, where Dr. Maguire had been head curator.
        He joined the botanical garden in 1943 after receiving his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1938 and teaching biology and botany at colleges in Georgia, Utah and New York.
        Much of his work was in the Guyana Highlands of northern South America, a vast section of deep jungles, swift rivers and towering sandstone mountains. He ventured into remote areas to bring back hundreds of thousands of specimens of exotic plants and pictures of six-foot-long earthworms and eight-inch-wide spiders. Botanically Rich Mountain
        In 1954, Dr. Maguire, who was born in Alabama City, Ala., discovered and named Cerro de la Neblina, or "Mountain of the Clouds," a mountain 8,000 feet high that straddles the border of Brazil and Venezuela. It is one of the most isolated and botanically rich of all table mountains in the area. He was awarded the David Livingstone Centenary Medal by the American Geographical Society in 1965.
        Gregory Long, president of the New York Botanical Garden, said yesterday, "Seldom in the history of botany has there been such a fortuitous union of man, mission and institution as we find in Bassett Maguire and his half-century of contributions to systematic biology."
        He called Dr. Maguire a pioneer in calling for an inventory of the world's tropical vegetation and for the development of land-use policies that took into account the interrelationship of the bioecosystems of the tropics.
        Before joining the New York Botanical Garden, Dr. Maguire was a professor at Utah State University, where he developed the Intermountain Herbarium, beginning an extensive collection of the developing flora of the area.
        At the botanical garden, he was head curator, director of botany and senior scientist in a career there that began in 1943. He retired in 1978, but worked there every day until last year.
        His awards included the Sarah Gildersleeve Fife Memorial Award from the Horticultural Society, and he was the founder and past president of the Association for Tropical Biology.
        He is survived by his wife, Celia, who joined him on many of his expeditions, and a son, Bassett Jr., of Austin, Tex., a retired professor of zoology.
      