
        Liu Chieh, a career diplomat who served as Taiwan's delegate to the United Nations from 1962 to 1971, died on Tuesday at Fairfax Hospital in Virginia. He was 85 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, his son, Allen, said in San Francisco.
        Dr. Liu served China's Nationalist Government before 1949, and the Taiwan Government after the Communist takeover on the mainland in 1949.
        Dr. Liu was the Chinese delegate to the preparatory meetings at Dumbarton Oaks in 1944 and San Francisco in 1945 that led to the founding of the United Nations. Later he was the Chinese delegate to the organization's Trusteeship Council, serving as its president.
        In 1962 he was named permanent representative at the United Nations, a post he held until 1971. Since the United Nations had not yet recognized China's Communist Government, Dr. Liu took the seat accorded to China on the Security Council, frequently assuming the rotating presidency. He was also the delegate to the General Assembly, where he served as President.
        In October 1971, with George Bush, the United States delegate, looking on, Dr. Liu led the Nationalist Chinese delegation in a walkout from the General Assembly just before the historic vote that shifted recognition from the Nationalists to the Communist-led delegation from Beijing. The vote ended a 20-year struggle to keep China's seat in the hands of the Nationalists after the Communist takeover on the mainland.
        Dr. Liu joined China's diplomatic service in 1931 after studying law at Oxford University and practicing for several years as a barrister. He was an adviser to the Chinese delegation to the League of Nations and served as the first secretary of the Chinese Embassy in London.
        In 1940 he was appointed Minister to the Chinese Embassy in Washington and also served there as Minister Plenipotentiary. In 1945, he was named Deputy Foreign Minister.
        He also served as an Ambassador to Canada and to the Philippines. Recently he was an adviser to the President in Taiwan.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by a stepdaughter, Vivienne Wong of Hong Kong.
      