
       Cynthia Auerbach, an opera director who was associated with the New York City Opera for 15 years, died Thursday night at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was 44 years old and had been suffering from lung cancer.
        Cynthia Auerbach, an opera director who was associated with the New York City Opera for 15 years, died Thursday night at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was 44 years old and had been suffering from lung cancer.
        Educated as a pianist and music theorist, Ms. Auerbach began her stage career at the Manhattan School of Music, where she at first taught music theory and then founded the school's children's opera program in 1969. She had a free-lance career as a director but also held permanent posts at the Chautauqua Opera as artistic director and at the City Opera, where she had been a full member of the directing staff since 1975.
        Ms. Auerbach's last directing job was at the American Opera Center at the Juilliard School last February - in a production of Britten's ''Albert Herring.'' At the time, Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times of Ms. Auerbach's ''tightly coordinated'' staging and congratulated her for ''shrewdly resisting temptations to let low comedy take over.''
        At the City Opera, Ms. Auerbach presided over such revivals as ''Carmen,'' ''The Daughter of the Regiment'' and ''L'Heure Espagnol.'' She also directed the company's new production of ''Les Pecheurs de Perles'' in 1980, which was revived last season. 'American-Made Talent'
        Beverly Sills, general director of the City Opera, yesterday described Ms. Auerbach as ''typical of young American-made talent - the kind which has made this country's artists the most versatile in the world. She was feisty and imaginative and so part of our family that she represents a terrible loss.''
        Elizabeth Crittenden, her manager at Columbia Artists, remembers Ms. Auerbach as a champion of developing American artists and composers, citing especially her work with young singers at the Texas Opera and at Juilliard and her productions of Carlisle Floyd's ''Of Mice and Men'' and Marc Blitzstein's ''Regina'' at Chautauqua. Ms. Auerbach also directed opera at a score of regional companies in North America, many of them in the American South.
        She was born in New York City and received her education at the Juilliard School, the State University of New York at Potsdam and the Manhattan School.
        Ms. Auerbach is survived by her father, Percy, now living in Florida, and by two sisters, Ronnie and Lynn, of the New York area. There will be a 2 P.M. service on Sunday at the Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, at 91st Street, in Manhattan.
      