
       Gordon B. Sherman, the creator of the Midas muffler shop chain who resigned from the company and failed in a proxy battle to regain control, died of cancer on May 8 at his home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 59 years old.
        Gordon B. Sherman, the creator of the Midas muffler shop chain who resigned from the company and failed in a proxy battle to regain control, died of cancer on May 8 at his home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Sherman was born in Omaha in 1927. He entered his father's automobile parts business in 1950, two years after graduating from the University of Chicago.
        He conceived the idea of franchising retail outlets to sell gold-plated mufflers under the Midas name. Started in the 1950's the idea caught on quickly and the Midas Company grew rapidly.
        In 1967 he became president of the Chicago-based company, by then the Midas International Corporation, succeeding his father, Nate Sherman, who became chairman.
        But in September 1970, after a series of conflicts with his father over his management of the company and his sponsorship of public-interest groups, Gordon Sherman resigned and his father once again took command.
        The elder Mr. Sherman was said to have been disturbed over a drop in profits, but he also complained that his son had been alienating Midas dealers and customers through some of his pursuits. Funds for Ralph Nader
        Among other things, Gordon Sherman had been channeling money from the company foundation to Saul Alinsky, a community organizer, and Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate. He had also sponsored a group in Chicago, Businessmen for the Public Interest, whose goals included helping the poor, ending discrimination and improving the environment through legal action.
        Explaining his motives, Mr. Sherman said: ''It was Vietnam that turned me on. Something began to rise in me. Before this I'd been a typical hawk by default. But I became serious, I read.''
        Of his assistance to Mr. Nader, he explained: ''I told Nader it was O.K. if he put us out of the muffler and exhaust business, so long as he put all of our competitors out of business too.''
        Shortly after leaving Midas, Mr. Sherman began a proxy fight to regain control of the company but lost. In 1971, he moved from Chicago to California, where he became a music teacher and a nature photographer.
        Survivors include his wife, Corinne; four sons, Stuart and Loren of New York City, Jeremy of Berkeley, Calif., and Robert of Boston; two sisters, Sarita Warshawsky and Bette Lou Seidner, both of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      