
       Robert F. Giegengack, a former Latin teacher who spent 29 years as the track and field coach at Yale University and led the United States team at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, died on Monday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 80 years old and had lived in Bethany, Conn., since his retirement in 1975.
        Robert F. Giegengack, a former Latin teacher who spent 29 years as the track and field coach at Yale University and led the United States team at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, died on Monday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 80 years old and had lived in Bethany, Conn., since his retirement in 1975.
        A native of Brooklyn who was graduated from Brooklyn Prep in 1925 and later from Holy Cross, Mr. Giegengack, who was on the track teams at both schools, returned to Brooklyn Prep to teach Latin, but it was in his after-school role as track coach from 1929 to 1937 that his scholarly gifts came into full flower. After his cross-country runners went undefeated for seven seasons and his team took first places in seven straight Penn Relays, Mr. Giegengack was called to Fordham in 1938, becoming, at the age of 31, the youngest track coach at a major university.
        After leading the Rams to their first Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America championship in 1941, he spent four years in the Navy, then returned to Fordham for a year before taking over at Yale in 1946. Revered Figure at Yale
        Over the next three decades he led the Elis to four IC4A championships and 17 Heptagonal titles, and a 186-121 record in dual and triangular meets, becoming one of Yale's most revered figures and one of the nation's most acclaimed and respected track coaches.
        A. Bartlett Giamatti, the former Yale president who now heads the National League, recalled yesterday that Mr. Giegengack ''inspired you to do your best without being hard-nosed about it'' and brought a special combination of ''intelligence, integrity and perspective'' to his calling.
        Gieg, as he was widely known, also inspired fierce loyalty, in part, perhaps, because he tended to give full credit to his athletes, sometimes, to their superstitious dismay, even before they had earned it in competition. Before the 1964 Summer Games, Mr. Giegengack, who had served as an assistant coach at the 1956 Games in Melbourne, startled the athletic world by proclaiming that his United States track team was the strongest ever assembled by a single nation. Despite the potential jinx, the American men, including such stars as Bob Hayes and Al Oerter, won a dozen gold medals, five silvers and three bronzes. Longtime Committee Chairman
        Mr. Giegengack, who served for many years as the chairman of the men's track and field committee of the United States Olympic Committee, also coached the United States team at the 1969 Maccabiah Games and a national team that toured China in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Lucie Dowling; three daughters, Lucie Teegarden, Mary Jureller and Jane White; three sons, Robert Jr., Richard and Edward, and 20 grandchildren.
        Viewings have been scheduled from 3 P.M. to 5 P.M. and from 7 P.M. to 9 P.M. today at the Celentano Funeral Home on Elm Street in New Haven. The funeral will be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at the Church of the Assumption in Woodbridge, Conn.
      