
       Dr. Michael Wood, a founder of the Flying Doctors Service of East Africa, died of cancer Friday night at his home in Nairobi, Kenya. He was 68 years old.
        Dr. Michael Wood, a founder of the Flying Doctors Service of East Africa, died of cancer Friday night at his home in Nairobi, Kenya. He was 68 years old.
        Born in England and trained as a plastic surgeon, Dr. Wood left London in 1947 and moved his family and surgical practice to Nairobi.
        In an effort to improve the poor level of health care in the region, Dr. Wood joined Dr. Thomas D. Rees of New York and Sir Archibald McIndoe of Britain to found the African Research Foundation in 1957. Headquartered in Nairobi with an office in New York, it has since branched to Western Europe and Canada and maintains a staff in Africa of about 600 doctors, nurses, researchers, nutritionists and sanitation inspectors, among others.
        Now known as the African Medical and Research Foundation, it was headed by Dr. Wood until the end of 1985, when his brother, Christopher, took over. Start of Airborne Service
        From the start, a big hurdle Dr. Wood and his co-workers faced was the delivery of medical treatment to the East African bush country. Thus began an enterprise with small planes to provide examinations, emergency treatments and evacuations.
        It quickly grew into the foundation's internationally known Flying Doctors Service. Norman G. Fairweather, financial director of the foundation, reported that the service now has a fleet of nine planes that work much like flying ambulances. It relies on a network of short-wave radios that keep the Nairobi base in touch with missions, clinics and other outposts in remote reaches of an area the size of Western Europe.
        During Dr. Wood's tenure, the foundation's services expanded into health education and training, family planning, preventive care, research on various diseases, and publications widely distributed in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
        Until 1975, he farmed some 10,000 acres on the slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, where he became a citizen.
        Besides his brother Christopher, Dr. Wood's survivors include his wife, the former Susan Buxton; four children, Mark, Janet, Hugo and Katrina; and another brother, Martin, of Britain.
      