
       Jack Romann, director of the concert and artist department of the Baldwin Piano Company, died yesterday morning at Cabrini Hospital. He was 59 years old and had had encephalitis and meningitis.
        Jack Romann, director of the concert and artist department of the Baldwin Piano Company, died yesterday morning at Cabrini Hospital. He was 59 years old and had had encephalitis and meningitis.
        As head of the Baldwin department, Mr. Romann was in close touch with a generation of American pianists. An extroverted, outgoing figure, he had been trained as a pianist and loved the instrument and its players - no matter what piano they used.
        ''It was the warmest professional relationship I have ever experienced,'' Richard Probst, director of the Steinway artists department, said yesterday. ''There never was any real competition between us. We respected each other as representatives of the two most important American piano companies. Jack remained close friends with many Steinway artists even after they had left Baldwin. He was respected by everybody in the business.''
        Charles Wadsworth, a pianist and the artistic director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, said: ''Almost every talented pianist in America now has had an important slice of his life removed. He was always at my side when I needed him. When I played at the White House for President Kennedy, Jack came along to give me support and he turned pages for me. Then, on his own, he wrote a press release and sent it to the paper of my Georgia hometown. All of a sudden I was somebody important there. Jack would do anything to help a pianist he was interested in.'' 'So Ready to Give'
        ''I cannot begin to tell you how important he was to me and almost any pianist I know,'' said Santiago Rodriguez, a silver medalist in the Van Cliburn competition. ''He gave me tons of advice. He knew everybody in the business and they listened to him. He was always there when you needed him. I never met a man so ready to give.''
        Mr. Romann was born in Muscatine, Iowa, on Feb. 13, 1928. He studied piano and accordion there before going to the Juilliard School, where he studied piano with Beveridge Webster. He also studied piano with Hans Richter-Haaser in Germany on a Fulbright scholarship.
        Although an able pianist, Mr. Romann never gave public performances. Afer his studies he worked in the publicity departments of New York concert agencies and record companies. He went to Baldwin early in 1964 as director of the concert and artist department, and held the position until his death.
        ''Jack was a devoted friend,'' Dick Harrison, chairman of the board of the Baldwin Piano Company, said. ''But it was more than that. He enjoyed the loyalty and respect of the entire musical community.''
        Mr. Romann is survived by two sisters, Betty Hoffman of Muscatine and Ruth Smith of Melbourne Beach, Fla.
        A memorial service will be held on May 14 at 11 A.M. in the Hubbard Auditorium of the Manhattan School of Music, on 122d Street west of Broadway.
      