
       Dr. Sidney Cohen, a leading authority on marijuana, LSD and other mood altering drugs, died of heart failure at his Los Angeles home on May 8. He was 76 years old.
        Dr. Sidney Cohen, a leading authority on marijuana, LSD and other mood altering drugs, died of heart failure at his Los Angeles home on May 8. He was 76 years old.
        Dr. Cohen, a physician who for many years researched the effects of drugs on the mind, was among the first to warn of the dangers of the hallucinogen LSD. As early as 1962, when the drug was legal and used in research, he warning that a black market for the drug was developing.
        He was an associate clinical professor of the University of California at Los Angeles. In the late 1960's he served as director of the Division of Narcotic Addiction and Drug Abuse of the National Institute of Mental Health. Appeared With Timothy Leary
        On many occasions, he testified before Congressional committees, and he addressed many medical and non-medical conferences on drug use.
        At a student conference at the University of Maryland in 1967 he shared the platform with Dr. Timothy Leary, who was then considered a leader in the drug culture.
        In contrast to Dr. Leary's advocacy of drug use, Dr. Cohen told the students: ''Man has the capacity to be more than a flower-picking primate. We need more thinking, not less, and a society that does not value trained intelligence is doomed.'' Concern Over Abuse
        As an author he also gained wide attention, especially with his book, ''The Beyond Within: The LSD Story'' in 1964, which examined the growing debate over the drug.
        Acknowledging LSD's value in psychotherapy, Dr. Cohen wrote of his concern over its abuse by the ''beatnik microculture,'' warning that this could set back serious research for years.
        Dr. Cohen was born in New York City and studied at Columbia University, City College and Bonn University. He was chief of psychomatic medicine at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Los Angeles from 1959 to 1968.
        He is survived by his wife, Ilse; a son, Richard of Boulder, Colo.; a daughter, Dorothy Cohen of Los Angeles, and a sister, Yetta Wiener of Beverly Hills, Calif.
      