
       Robert M. Jacobson, the editor of Opera News magazine, died Saturday night at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Robert M. Jacobson, the editor of Opera News magazine, died Saturday night at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of respiratory failure resulting from acquired immune deficiency syndrome, according to Rocci Genova, his longtime companion.
        During his 12 years at Opera News, Mr. Jacobson became a nationally prominent advocate for opera and the arts through his frequent lectures and television appearances.
        Mr. Jacobson's career in music journalism began in 1963 with review assignments for Musical America. Over the following decade he wrote for numerous publications and edited the program booklets for Lincoln Center. He was also a regular program annotator for CBS Records. In 1974 he became editor of Opera News, and also edited its sister publication, Ballet News, from 1979 until it was discontinued last year.
        During his editorship Mr. Jacobson moved Opera News, which is published by the Metropolitan Opera Guild, away from its image as a house organ. He served as the magazine's chief New York critic as well as editor, and reviewed performances at the parent house. Organized AIDS Benefit
        Mr. Jacobson also served on numerous panels and competition juries, and appeared regularly on ''Live From Lincoln Center'' telecasts and on syndicated radio programs. He was a frequent host for benefit concerts, and in September 1985 organized a fund-raising gala for AIDS research that took in more than $250,000.
        He was the author of three books: ''Reverberations,'' a collection of interviews; ''Opera People,'' a collaboration with the photographer Christian Steiner, and ''Magnificence: Onstage at the Met,'' a retrospective of performances at the Metropolitan Opera.
        Mr. Jacobson is survived by his mother, Frances Barr, and a sister, Barbara Greenbaum.
        A memorial service is to be held tomorrow at 1 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
        ROBERT M. JACOBSON, 46, DIES
      