
       John D. McPherson, who founded the Airborne Freight Corporation and headed it for 22 years, died of cancer Saturday at Mills Memorial Hospital in San Mateo, Calif. He was 64 years old and lived in nearby Hillsborough.
        John D. McPherson, who founded the Airborne Freight Corporation and headed it for 22 years, died of cancer Saturday at Mills Memorial Hospital in San Mateo, Calif. He was 64 years old and lived in nearby Hillsborough.
        Mr. McPherson, a native Californian, used his $3,000 life savings to start Airborne, a freight forwading company, in a Quonset hut at San Francisco Airport in 1947. He was its president and chief executive until 1969, when the company's annual sales had grown to about $20 million and it had about 500 agents and offices around the world.
        He left the active management of Airborne, which is now based in Seattle and last year had sales of $542 million, and began a second career as an investor. Mr. McPherson remained a director of Airborne and was its largest single shareholder until late last year, when he sold his holdings to TNT Ltd., a freight company in Australia.
        In 1968, Mr. McPherson founded the Ralston Investment Corporation, a private company. At various times he had holdings in real estate, a travel company, an airline catering company and a diesel parts company. An Interest in Horses
        An avid horseman, Mr. McPherson owned a 700-acre ranch outside Petaluma, Calif. Last year he was one of about 50 investors from around the country who formed the Star World Company in La Grange, Ky., to license and hold auctions and shows of Arabian stallions in Louisville, Ky., and Scottsdale, Ariz.
        He stepped down as president and chief executive of Star World in March when his illness was diagnosed, according to a company spokesman, Bob Richelson.
        Mr. McPherson, a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley in 1941, served in the Naval Reserve until 1946, reaching the rank of lieutenant commander.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ann Autrey; their daughter, Jacqueline, and two children from a previous marriage - a son, John G., of Berkeley, and a daughter, Dallas Shaffer of Carmichael, Calif.
      