
       Calvin Williams, a major operator of private livery services in New York City and a former New York State Assemblyman, died Saturday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 61 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Calvin Williams, a major operator of private livery services in New York City and a former New York State Assemblyman, died Saturday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 61 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Williams was a leader of the gypsy cab industry - although he resented the term gypsy - and was frequently involved in efforts to improve the status of the city's nonmedallion taxicabs.
        He was elected to the Legislature in 1970 as a Democrat from Brooklyn's 56th Assembly District, in the Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant sections. On his arrival in Albany, he told a reporter that, ''being black, I've been a freshman all my life.''
        The company Mr. Williams opened in 1962, the Black Pearl Car Service, was among the leaders in private car services in minority areas of the city that many drivers of medallion cabs shunned. Born in Arkansas
        His popularity in the community as the owner of Black Pearl was viewed as a factor in his election.
        He lost his bid for renomination in 1974, a year in which a State Supreme Court jury found him guilty of perjury in connection with statements he made about a traffic accident four years before. He was sentenced to six months in jail on the charge.
        Mr. Williams was born in Little Rock, Ark., where he attended Dunbar Junior College. He continued his education at Brooklyn College and Long Island University. He served in the Air Force during World War II and the Korean War. He married in Korea and he and his wife came to New York in 1955 to raise their family.
        Survivors include his wife, Yung Ja, and the couple's four children, Lo Rita, Kimlyn, Kenyatte and Ynice; nine children by his previous marriages, Ray, Sharon, Brad, Calvin Jr., Carol, Keith, Jeanette, Anita and Carl. All live in Brooklyn except for Anita, who is from Los Angeles. He also leaves a brother, Herbert, of Brooklyn; a sister, Bernice Kemp of Grand Rapids, Mich., and eleven grandchildren.
        A funeral is scheduled for 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Concord Baptist Church, 833 Marcy Avenue, Brooklyn.
      