
       Colin Blakely, whose consistently superb performances in mostly supporting roles made him one of Britain's most popular actors, died of leukemia Thursday in London. He was 56 years old.
        Colin Blakely, whose consistently superb performances in mostly supporting roles made him one of Britain's most popular actors, died of leukemia Thursday in London. He was 56 years old.
        The actor's agent, Julian Belfrage, said yesterday that Mr. Blakely was admitted two months ago to Middlesex Hospital, where he died.
        Mr. Blakely's 30-year career on the stage, screen and television encompassed roles ranging from the classics to the frivolous, from the serious to the comedic. Although he frequently appeared in supporting roles, he often supported the major stars of the day -Laurence Olivier, Paul Scofield, Alec Guinness and John Gielgud, among others.
        But whatever the vehicle or the role, Mr. Blakely's performances invariably won critical and public praise.
        One of the highest accolades came from Martin Esslin, writing in The New York Times about a 1970 revival of Chekhov's ''Uncle Vanya'' at London's Royal Court Theater. Rhetorically asking the perennial question, ''Who is the greatest actor on the English stage today?'' the critic wrote: ''After the opening night of one of the finest performances I have ever seen in a lifetime of theatergoing, my bets are on two actors: Paul Scofield and Colin Blakely.'' London Debut in 1959
        Born in Bangor, Northern Ireland, Mr. Blakely worked for several years in theaters in Belfast and in Wales. He made his London debut at the Royal Court in 1959 in the role of the Second Rough Fellow in Sean O'Casey's ''Cock-a-Doodle-Dandy.''
        Mr. Blakely joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in the early 1960's and appeared in ''As You Like It'' and ''Richard III.'' In 1963, the actor joined the newly established National Theater and was a member of the company for five years.
        While at the National, Mr. Blakely appeared with Sir Laurence Olivier in the London production of Arthur Miller's ''Crucible'' at the Old Vic. He also appeared with Mr. Gielgud in Seneca's ''Oedipus'' and toured the Soviet Union with Sir Laurence in ''Othello.''
        He also began to work in films in the 1960's and appeared in ''This Sporting Life'' with Richard Harris, ''A Man for All Seasons'' with Mr. Scofield, ''The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes,'' in which he played Dr. Watson, ''The Pink Panther Strikes Again,'' and ''Equus.'' He later appeared in adventure and comedy movies, including ''The Dogs of War,'' ''Loophole,'' ''The National Health'' and ''Evil Under the Sun'' with Peter Ustinov.
        But Mr. Blakely kept his focus on the stage, and in the 1970's he created roles in plays by Harold Pinter and Alan Ayckbourn, as well as appearing in revivals of classics. Television Roles
        In one of his infrequent starring roles, Mr. Blakely created the role of the husband in Pinter's ''Old Times'' in 1971 with Dorothy Tutin and Vivien Merchant. He also created the role of Dennis in Mr. Ayckbourn's ''Just Between Ourselves'' and last year appeared in the playwright's ''Chorus of Disapproval.''
        Television expanded Mr. Blakely's audience to the United States. He appeared with Mr. Guinness in ''Little Lord Fauntleroy'' and played Antony in Jonathan Miller's production of Shakespeare's ''Antony and Cleopatra.''
        In 1984 he played the Earl of Kent in Lord Olivier's celebrated television production of Shakespeare's ''King Lear.''
        One of his last appearances was in ''Paradise Postponed,'' a British television mini-series based on the book by John Mortimer.
        Peter Goodchild, head of the BBC Drama and Plays department, said yesterday, ''Quite simply, Colin was one of this country's finest actors who has given some of his best work on television.''
        Mr. Blakely is survived by his wife, Margaret, and three sons.
        COLIN BLAKELY, ACTOR, IS DEAD
      