
       James J. Delaney, the former Queens Congressman whose three decades in Washington catapulted him into the chairmanship of the powerful House Rules Committee, died yesterday at his son's home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 86 years old and had been a resident of Key Biscayne, Fla., since his retirement in 1978.
        James J. Delaney, the former Queens Congressman whose three decades in Washington catapulted him into the chairmanship of the powerful House Rules Committee, died yesterday at his son's home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 86 years old and had been a resident of Key Biscayne, Fla., since his retirement in 1978.
        Colleagues said the Delaney Amendment - a clause in a 1957 food-safety bill that outlawed cancer-causing additives in food - was the capstone of his long and controversial political career. As chairman of the New York City Congressional delegation in the mid-1970's, he also played a key role in shaping the Federal legislation that helped rescue the city from its financial crisis.
        First elected to the House of Representatives in 1944 as a Democrat from Long Island City, Mr. Delaney arrived in Washington as Franklin D. Roosevelt was preparing to go to Yalta. He retired a few months before the signing of the Camp David accords. His politics mirrored the turbulence of those times.
        Starting out as a liberal with close ties to the labor movement, he became increasingly conservative, as the ninth Congressional district - encompassing Long Island City, Jackson Heights, Glendale, Ridgewood and Forest Hills - evolved from a blue-collar enclave into a solid haven of the middle classes. Disputes With Other Democrats
        Votes against Federal aid to education and his support of public aid to parochial schools often placed him at odds with other local Democratic leaders. In the 1960's those differences intensified over the issue of school busing and Mr. Delaney's support of the Vietnam War. The leadership of the Queens Democratic organization split with him in 1970 over his support of James Buckley, who was elected to the Senate on the Conservative Party slate.
        But Mr. Delaney, who was defeated once in 1946 and afterward won 15 consecutive elections, survived several redrawings of his district's map and a number of fiercely fought elections. In 1972 he turned back a strong challenge from Thomas J. Manton, a City Councilman who had the political blessing of Matthew J. Troy Jr., who was then county leader.
        Mr. Delaney later boasted that his conservatism had served New York City well. He was able, he said, to call on his conservative friends in Congress to support the $2.3 billion low-interest loan that saved the city from bankruptcy. After he retired in 1978, Geraldine Ferraro, the 1984 Democratic candidate for Vice President, was chosen to represent the district.
        Mr. Delaney was born in New York City and attended public schools in Long Island City. In 1932 he received a law degree from St. John's University. From 1936 until he went to Congress eight years later, Mr. Delaney was an assistant in the Queens District Attorney's office.
        He was married in 1939 to the former Lola Mathis of Houston, who died in 1972.
        In addition to his son, Patrick J., survivors include a sister, Maude Ryan, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
        A wake is scheduled for Tuesday afternoon and evening at Barrett Funeral Home in Tenafly. A Roman Catholic funeral mass will be said at 10 A.M. Wednesday in Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in Tenafly. Burial will follow at Calvary Cemetery in Woodside, Queens.
      