
       Charles E. Rothwell, a former president of Mills College and a onetime State Department official who played a key role in the conference that founded the United Nations in 1945, died Friday in Point Reyes, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Charles E. Rothwell, a former president of Mills College and a onetime State Department official who played a key role in the conference that founded the United Nations in 1945, died Friday in Point Reyes, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        From 1952 to 1959, Dr. Rothwell was the director of the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, a center of historical documentation and research on the campus of Stanford University.
        In 1960, while president of Mills, Dr. Rothwell presided at the 15th anniversary observance of the founding of the United Nations in San Francisco. Fifteen years earlier he was the executive secretary of the conference that drafted the United Nations Charter in that city.
        Dr. Rothwell, who was born in Denver, graduated from Reed College in Portland, Ore., in 1924. He earned his master's degree in education at the University of Oregon and a doctorate at Stanford.
        He served in the State Department from 1941 to 1946. In the last year he was secretary general to the United States delegation to the United Nations.
        He was a senior staff member of the Brookings Institution for a time before being named vice chairman of the Hoover Institution in 1947.
        Dr. Rothwell was president of Mills, a women's college in Oakland, Calif., from 1959 to 1967, when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 65.
        After his retirement he became regional adviser on educational development to the Asia Foundation.
        Dr. Rothwell, who lived in Inverness, Calif., is survived by his wife, Virginia; a daughter, Mrs. Robert Carr of St. Helena, Calif.; two sisters, Helen Wilderman of Portland and Alice Krichesky of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
        C.E. ROTHWELL DIES
      