
       Representative Stewart B. McKinney, a nine-term Republican from Connecticut, died today at Washington Hospital Center of an infection brought on by AIDS. He is the first member of Congress known to have succumbed to the disease.
        Representative Stewart B. McKinney, a nine-term Republican from Connecticut, died today at Washington Hospital Center of an infection brought on by AIDS. He is the first member of Congress known to have succumbed to the disease.
        A statement from Mr. McKinney's office quoted his personal physician, Dr. Cesar Caceres, as saying that the 56-year-old Representative from Fairfield County contracted the disease from blood transfusions he received during heart bypass surgery in 1979.
        ''Stewart McKinney died of pneumocystis pneumonia,'' Dr. Caceres said, ''a bacterial infection brought on by acquired immune deficiency syndrome.''
        Dr. Caceres said Mr. McKinney ''wanted the cause of his death known after he passed away, in hopes that this information might help others to deal with what is becoming a national crisis.'' Surgery Done in Manhattan
        Mr. McKinney underwent triple bypass surgery in early 1979 at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. A spokeswoman for the hospital, Doris Ho, said tonight it was ''purely speculative at this time'' that he had contracted AIDS, which destroys the body's immune system, from the blood he received during that operation. ''We didn't know about AIDS in 1979,'' she said.
        The hospital, now part of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, received its blood from the Greater New York Blood Program, she added.
        Dr. Johanna Pindyck, director of the Greater New York Blood Program, said last night that she was unfamiliar with Mr. McKinney's case, but that the risk of contracting AIDS through blood supplied by the program from 1978 to 1980 was 1 in 10,000. Dr. Pindyck said the program adopted a policy in 1978 of not collecting blood from homosexual community groups to avoid the spread of hepatitis B. Dr. Caceres said the transfusions eight years ago were ''the most logical source,'' of AIDS for McKinney. Signs 'as Early as 1980'
        ''Looking back over his medical records,'' he said, ''there seem to have been indications of AIDS as early as 1980.'' It was in that year, the doctor said, that he first began to treat Mr. McKinney.
        ''There were indications then that his immune system was overworking,'' Dr. Caceres said. ''But at that time, we were not as aware of AIDS and we thought it might be due to cardiac problems.''
        He said that clear evidence of immune system problems emerged by 1984 but that only 18 months ago did tests reveal that ''he carried the antibody and therefore could develop AIDS.''
        Further tests led to a definitive diagnosis of AIDS on April 22, Dr. Caceres said, and the Congressman was informed of his condition at that time.
        In 1979, AIDS had not yet been recognized as a disease, and it was not known to be transmitted by blood until 1982. Since 1985, blood supplies in this country have been screened, virtually eliminating transfusions as a cause of the disease.
        Between 2 and 3 percent of the total number of AIDS cases have been contracted through blood transfusions, according to the Federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta.
        Federal authorities have estimated that as many as 1.5 million Americans may now be infected with the AIDS virus. As of early this week more than 35,000 cases have been reported to Federal authorities, of which more than 20,000 have resulted in fatalities. House Pays Homage
        On the floor of the House of Representatives this afternoon, all work ceased shortly after the members learned of Mr. McKinney's death. Remembrances by the members continued into the evening.
        Elsewhere in Washington, Jeffrey Levi, director of the Gay and Lesbian Task Force, an advocacy group that focuses on the AIDS epidemic, said Mr. McKinney's death ''will change things to the extent that it makes this this thing more real to his colleagues.''
        ''It should increase support for bringing the epidemic to an end,'' he added. ''It also humanizes the tragedy the way that it has when other well-known personalities have died as a result of AIDS.''
        Mr. McKinney was re-elected to a ninth term in Congress last November despite widespread concern about his health.
        He suffered heart attacks in the spring of 1976 and the winter of 1978, and underwent triple-bypass heart surgery in January 1979. In 1985, he was hospitalized for double pneumonia, an ailment that was not related to AIDS, according to Dr. Caceres.
        The senior member of his state's Congressional delegation at his death, Mr. McKinney was repeatedly returned to Congress by the voters of the Fourth District, where the number of Democrats had grown to outnumber Republicans in recent years. The district has about 112,000 enrolled Democrats, 97,000 Republicans and 79,000 unaffiliated voters. Supporter of Urban Aid
        He was regarded as an independent-minded, liberal Republican in a district that stretches from some of the wealthiest communities in the country - Greenwich, Darien and Westport -to some of the state's worst areas of urban blight in Bridgeport. Considered one of the wealthiest members of Congress, he consistently supported urban aid and social welfare programs.
        One of his areas of expertise on Capitol Hill was housing. He was the ranking Republican on the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development.
        Last year, the National Housing Conference praised him for his efforts to broaden the availability of low- and moderate-income housing and for his amendment to the Community Development Act of 1978 that helped redirect Federal housing aid to smaller cities. Native of Pittsburgh
        Mr. McKinney was born into a wealthy family on Jan. 30, 1931, in Pittsburgh, and moved to Fairfield, Conn., as a child.
        He was a sergeant in the Air Force, serving from 1951 to 1955. In 1953, he was one of 40 officers and enlisted men selected to attend the Dwight D. Eisenhower Citizenship Training Program at Columbia Universty.
        He graduated from Yale in 1958 with a B.A. in American history. For a time, he ran CMF Tires, a chain of stores in Fairfield County, and was a real-estate investor.
        He served four years in the Connecticut General Assembly before winning his first run for Congress in 1970.
        He is survived by his wife, Lucie; two sons, Stewart, of Fairfield and John, of Westport; three daughters, Lucie, of Fairfield, Jean, of Buffalo, and Elizabeth Gaeta of Durham, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      