
       Colston E. Warne, a founder and longtime president of Consumers Union, the group that publishes Consumer Reports magazine, died yesterday at the Carleton Willard Village nursing home in Bedford, Mass., where he lived. He was 86 years old.
        Colston E. Warne, a founder and longtime president of Consumers Union, the group that publishes Consumer Reports magazine, died yesterday at the Carleton Willard Village nursing home in Bedford, Mass., where he lived. He was 86 years old.
        Dr. Warne was one of a group of striking employees who left Consumers Research, which was among the first independent testing organizations, to form Consumers Union in 1936. During Dr. Warne's 43 years as president, Consumers Union became the world's largest organization for product testing and reporting. He retired in 1979.
        Consumers Union, based in Mount Vernon, N.Y., tests everything from automobiles to household chemicals and reports the results to the 3.8 million subscribers of Consumer Reports.
        Dr. Warne also taught economics at Amherst College from 1930 to 1969. Helped Form International Group
        In 1947, while serving as a member of the consumer advisory committee to the President's Council of Economic Advisers, he refused to sign a loyalty questionnaire being distributed to all Federal employees, basing his action ''solely on principle.''
        ''I am an upstate New York Yankee,'' he said at the time. ''I am not a Communist.''
        Seven years later he was instrumental in having Consumers Union removed from a House Un-American Activities Committee list of ''subversive'' organizations.
        Colleagues at Consumers Union said that Dr. Warne was a driving force there, especially in the 1930's and 1940's, but that he left day-to-day operations to the organization's executive directors.
        In 1960, Dr. Warne helped form the International Organization of Consumers Unions, which consists of 175 consumer groups. He was the group's first president. A Critic of Advertising
        Dr. Warne was a persistent critic of the advertising industry, writing in 1962, for example, that ''artificial product differentiation and romantic fantasies may for a time capture unthinking consumer loyalty, but these techniques are no substitute for unadulterated truth.'' Consumers Union does not accept advertising in its magazine.
        Dr. Warne was born in Romulus, N.Y. He originally planned to become a banker, majoring in economics at Cornell, but his interest shifted as he studied the labor movement. He did his doctoral thesis at the University of Chicago on the consumer cooperative movement.
        In 1928 he helped found Consumers Research, from which he subsequently departed to form Consumers Union.
        He taught at the University of Denver, the University of Chicago, the University of Pittsburgh and Cornell University, among other institutions.
        His wife, Frances, died in 1982. He is survived by a son, Clinton, of Shaker Heights, Ohio; two daughters, Margaret Nelson of Arlington, Va., and Barbara Newell of Tallahassee, Fla., and five grandchildren.
        C.E. WARNE DIES
      