
       Dr. Charles H. Kremer, a Rumanian-born dentist who browbeat and cajoled American officials into pursuing a successful Nazi war crimes case against a Michigan cleric, died Tuesday night at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and had been hospitalized for two weeks with pneumonia and kidney problems.
        Dr. Charles H. Kremer, a Rumanian-born dentist who browbeat and cajoled American officials into pursuing a successful Nazi war crimes case against a Michigan cleric, died Tuesday night at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and had been hospitalized for two weeks with pneumonia and kidney problems.
        Over nearly four decades, Dr. Kremer pressed for Government action against Archbishop Valerian D. Trifa, longtime head of the Rumanian Orthodox Episcopate of America in Grass Lake, Mich., and a former Fascist Iron Guard leader charged with fomenting a massacre of Jews in Bucharest in 1941.
        Dr. Kremer's efforts culminated in 1984 when Archbishop Trifa left the United States for Portugal under a Federal deportation order. He admitted concealing his past to enter the country illegally in 1950 but denied complicity in atrocities. He died of a heart attack in January at the age of 72 in Cascais, Portugal.
        William French Smith 3d, when he was Attorney General, commended Dr. Kremer for the ''tremendous victory'' of Archbishop Trifa's ouster. ''Your interest and resolve never diminished,'' he wrote Dr. Kremer in 1984. ''Trifa's departure should be a great source of satisfaction for you.''
        In truth, however, Dr. Kremer was frustrated and disappointed that Archbishop Trifa never faced trial on war crimes charges in Israel, where the Justice Department had for a time sought to send him. Emigrated to U.S. in 1919
        Dr. Kremer, a Jew who had emigrated to the United States in 1919 and who lost scores of relatives in the Holocaust, was particularly critical of what was widely viewed as footdragging by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the early 1970's. Once when an Immigration Service counsel, Charles Gordon, insisted ''We haven't been asleep,'' Dr. Kremer shot back, ''Well, I haven't slept for 30 years.''
        Dr. Kremer was born in the Danube-region village of Braila, Rumania, on July 15, 1897. His father was a shoemaker. After World War I, he and a brother stowed away on a ship to the United States. They jumped ship in Philadelphia, where Dr. Kremer worked as a waiter to put himself through dentistry school at the University of Pennsylvania. He later moved to New York, where he practiced dentistry for 52 years.
        He made several trips to Rumania to gather documentation on the Trifa case. In 1971 he was struck by a car driven by the son of President Nicolae Ceausescu. His claim for damages was rejected by the Rumanian Government, but Dr. Kremer pressed a lawsuit stubbornly for years.
        He is survived by a son, Lewis, an architect in Kinderhook, N.Y. His wife, from whom he was long divorced, died two years ago. The funeral will be at the Gutterman-Riverside Chapel at 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 10 A.M. tomorrow. Burial will be at Mt. Hebron Cemetery in Queens.
        DR. CHARLES KREMER, 89, DIES
      