
        The Third Earl of Cromer, a former head of the Bank of England and a former Ambassador to the United States, died on Saturday at his home in London. He was 72 years old.
        His family declined to make public the cause of death.
        Lord Cromer, scion of a leading British banking family, was an authority on international finance and economics in a career that alternated between private banking and public service.
        He was chairman and managing director of his family's merchant bank, Baring Brothers & Company; held the pivotal post of economics minister in the British Embassy in Washington from 1959 to 1961, was governor of the Bank of England from 1961 to 1966, and returned to Washington as Ambassador from 1971 to 1974 to persuade Americans that London's plan to join the European Economic Community would spur, rather than impede, British-American trade.  In Defense of the Pound
        Lord Cromer was a notably independent governor of the Bank of England and its youngest chief in 200 years. He appointed new officers and battled to protect the pound, particularly after a Labor Government took office in 1964. In one afternoon, he saved sterling from a sudden, forced devaluation by telephoning leading bankers in 10 countries and persuading them to provide the central bank with $3 billion in credits.
        His repeated criticism of Labor's liberal spending generated celebrated quarrels with Prime Minister Harold Wilson. At one point, the Labor leader was said to have shouted at him, "Who is Prime Minister of this country, Mr. Governor, you or me?"
        Lord Cromer, whose name was George Rowland Stanley Baring, was born on July 28, 1918, in Hertfordshire, England, and was a godson of King George V. The Barings were originally North Germans who settled in Exeter in the early 18th century, and a great-great-great grandfather, Francis Baring, founded the family bank in 1762.
        The youth's paternal grandfather, popularly called Sir Evelyn "Overbearing," the First Earl of Cromer, was the virtual ruler of Egypt at the turn of this century, and his maternal grandfather, the fourth Earl of Minto, was a Governor General of Canada and Viceroy of India.  Served in World War II
        The grandson graduated from Eton College, learned French at Grenoble University and studied law briefly at Trinity College in Cambridge. In World War II, he joined the Grenadier Guards, served in Europe in the Guards Armored Division and rose to lieutenant colonel.
        After the war, he had two years of training in New York banks and served his first stint with the family bank before his first, economic assignment in Washington, which included posts with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. He succeeded to his earldom in 1953 on the death of his father, was a director of a half-dozen major corporations and held many royal honors.
        Survivors include his wife of 48 years, the former Esme Harmsworth, and two sons.
      