
        Arthur Murray, the immigrant baker's son who danced his way to fame and fortune as the world's best-known teacher of ballroom dancing, died yesterday at his home in Honolulu. He was 95 years old and had also had another house in Rye, N.Y., for many years.
        His daughter, Phyllis Murray McDowell, said he died of pneumonia. He had been active and in good health until very recently, she said.
        Mr. Murray liked to tell stories of how learning to dance well had helped other people achieve poise, success and happiness, but his own life was his best success story -- and a testimony to his skill as a promoter and an executive as well as a rumba dancer, fox-trotter, waltzer and bunny-hugger.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Murray was a shy, gangling wallflower when he entered Morris High School in the Bronx. But he found he had a flair for ballroom dancing, won some contests, gained self-confidence and began giving lessons. He plunged into business for himself, building a lucrative mail-order operation and then a network of more than 300 franchised dance studios that was grossing more than $25 million a year when he stepped down as president in 1964, after several million pupils had learned to dance the Arthur Murray way. Diagrams to Direct the Feet
        The Murray method involved the use of clearly drawn diagrams -- Mr. Murray had worked in an architect's office -- to show the student exactly how to move the feet; of well-groomed instructors who were told to keep smiling; of studios that Mr. Murray, a fanatical lightbulb-duster, kept clean, neat and decorous; of newly fashionable dance steps, some of which Mr. Murray helped to popularize by paying handsome young people to dance them in nightclubs.
        Dancing was more than a pastime and a business, Mr. Murray used to say. It even helped in understanding one's fellow man, or rather, one's fellow dancer, he said. He once wrote that "the man who treats the lady as though she were a china doll, holds her gently, and is careful to see that she does not collide with every pillar, is more than often a man of fine sensibility."
        Some of Mr. Murray's most articulate admirers noted that his own sensibility was focused mainly on the bottom line. The New York Times critic Ben Crisler wrote in 1939 that Mr. Murray's "peculiar slant on the dance, which would probably shock Diaghilev, is the same as the Rockefeller perspective on oil, as the Guggenheim way of looking at the mineral kingdom." Rich and Famous Pupils
        Despite his distinction as a dancer and an entrepreneur, Mr. Murray was ordinary-looking, with a bald head, matter-of-fact mouth and a receding chin. But such was his skill, renown and strength of will that the rich and the famous and the otherwise elite thronged his studios. Over the years, he and his aides reported, the customers included Eleanor Roosevelt, the Duke of Windsor, John D. Rockefeller Jr., Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney, Lowell Thomas, Barbara Hutton, Elizabeth Arden, the photographer Margaret Bourke-White, Jack Dempsey, Paul Whiteman, and President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines.
        Mr. Murray did little instructing himself in his later years, preferring to concentrate on administration and on advertising, which he said was a key to his success. In 1952, when there were already more than 200 studios in his organization, spending a total of more than $3 million a year on advertising, he said that without it, "I would still be where I was 25 years ago -- with two teachers in a small studio."
        Early Arthur Murray advertisements emphasized how dancing could change people's lives: "How I Became Popular Overnight" was the headline on one of them, which covered a full page in True Story magazine. Another Murray classic was headlined "30 Days Ago They Laughed at Me" and illustrated with a picture of a happy young Arthur Murray alumnus flanked by admiring girls. Radio, TV Used for Promotions
        He also made early and extensive use of radio, and for years his name was kept before the television public by "The Arthur Murray Party," a weekly variety program with his wife, Kathryn, as the mistress of ceremonies.
        Yet all was not smooth waltzing for the Murrays. In 1930, five years after their marriage, Mrs. Murray suffered a broken back in a fall from the third story of their Mount Vernon home. She later wrote that it had been a suicide attempt caused by depression that she had hidden from her husband. For a while the doctors feared she would never dance again, but she did.
        There were various business difficulties, on the labor front and elsewhere. In 1946, striking Arthur Murray instructors wore convicts' prison garb on their New York picket line, contending that Mr. Murray was treating them harshly. Tactics Aroused Criticism
        Over the years, the Murray organization's aggressive business methods occasionally aroused controversy. In 1960, the Federal Trade Commission ordered the Murray studios to stop employing what were termed bogus contests and high-pressure tactics to induce people to sign up for dance lessons.
        In May 1964 Mr. Murray was briefly arrested in New York on a Federal warrant seeking him as a witness before a Minneapolis grand jury, which was investigating reports of fraudulent practices by dance studios in Minnesota. There was no indication that he or his studios were the direct target of the inquiry, but a United States attorney said Mr. Murray was a necessary witness and had avoided service of a subpoena in an earlier case.
        Two months later, Mr. Murray announced that he had resigned as president of Arthur Murray Inc., and said he had earlier sold all his stock. Early in 1965, it was disclosed that a group of investors had paid roughly $2 million in cash to acquire a controlling interest in the corporation, which then had 350 franchised dance studios, including nearly 50 in foreign countries. Harry Evons, the new president, said the company's annual volume of business was $25 million to $30 million. Mr. Murray stayed on as a consultant, and the company continued to bear his name. Tall, Gawky and Shy
        Mr. Murray was named Arthur Murray Teichman when he was born April 4, l895, one of five children of Abraham Teichman and Sara Shor Teichman. His Austrian-born parents operated a bakery in East Harlem.
        As a boy, he later recalled, he was "tall, gawky and extremely shy." At Morris High School, he said, "my bashfulness and diffidence had become pernicious habits."
        He dropped out, but after losing several jobs he returned to school -- and found that he was happier because he had acquired poise by learning ballroom dancing from a girlfriend and instruction given by the Educational Alliance.
        After finishing high school, Mr. Murray worked for two years in an architect's office, but in the evenings he threw himself enthusiastically into the ballroom dance craze of the day.
        Those were days of ferment in the city's dance halls: the bunny hug and the grizzly bear were being supplanted by the one-step. He quit his job, took lessons at Castle Hall, the dancing school of Vernon and Irene Castle, and soon was on the faculty.
        Then he was hired by another fashionable dancing teacher, the Baroness de Cuddleston, to give dancing lessons at a hotel in Asheville, a resort center in North Carolina. It was then that he decided to drop the name Teichman because, he later said, "it sounded too German." First Studio in Atlanta
        Before long there was friction between Mr. Murray and the baroness, especially, the story goes, when he found out that she had been charging Mrs. George Vanderbilt $50 for each lesson that Mr. Murray gave her -- and paying Mr. Murray only $5. He and the baroness parted company. He stayed in Asheville for three years before moving to Atlanta, where he set up the first Arthur Murray dance studio, in the Georgian Terrace Hotel.
        He got the idea of selling mail-order dancing instruction, wrote a lesson book that he illustrated with diagrams and in 1924 moved his headquarters to New York. In good years, he let it be known, his net income from the business was about $150,000, and he employed as many as 90 people to sort the mail. But by the late 20's he concluded that he had reached a substantial portion of the potential mail-order customers around the country and he stopped advertising the lessons.
        In the meantime, he had set up dance studios in midtown Manhattan to meet the demand for lessons from teachers. As the Depression deepened, he found that impoverished aristocrats were happy to work for him as instructors. At one time, he said, his staff included a baroness, several countesses and a White Russian prince.
        After stepping down as Arthur Murray Inc.'s president, Mr. Murray was active as an art collector and investor. In 1968 he spent $83,240 for a Renoir painting. Its subject was a couple dancing.
        Mr. Murray is survived by his wife of 65 years, the former Kathryn Kohnfelder; a brother, Ira Murray of Hallandale, Fla.; twin daughters, Mrs. McDowell, of Old Saybrook, Ct., and Jane Heimlich of Cincinnati, whose husband, Dr. Henry J. Heimlich, originated the "Heimlich maneuver," a technique for aiding persons choking on food; eight grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      