
        Russell G. Oswald, the chief of New York State's penal system at the time of the bloody 1971 uprising in its Attica prison, died on Friday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 82 years old and lived in Schenectady.
        He died of heart disease, his wife, Jane, said.
        The four-day siege in the upstate maximum-security prison erupted on Sept. 9, 1971, when more than 1,000 inmates seized 43 hostages. During the revolt and siege, a guard and three inmates were killed. Mr. Oswald tried in vain to negotiate a settlement. Ultimatums of surrender and amnesty were rejected and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller refused to go to the prison at the behest of a committee of civilian observers seeking a nonviolent solution.
        On Sept. 13, on orders from Commissioner Oswald and with the Governor's approval, more than 1,000 heavily armed officers stormed the prison amid a torrent of gunfire and tear gas. In the battle -- the bloodiest in American prison history -- 29 inmates and 10 prison employees were killed.  Tarnished Relations
        The tragedy generated a rash of investigations, lawsuits and indictments, a few trials, some prison reforms and lingering questions.
        A yearlong state inquiry into Attica sharply criticized Mr. Rockefeller for not going to the prison during the uprising.
        The inquiry concluded that the rebellion began spontaneously, while Mr. Oswald later asserted that it was a planned revolutionary act. He defended his actions in a book, "Attica -- My Story," which was published by Doubleday in 1972.
        The uprising tarnished relations between the Governor and the Commissioner. In April 1973, Mr. Oswald resigned after holding his post for less than two and a half years, and Mr. Rockefeller appointed him to the state's newly expanded Crime Victims Compensation Board. He retired from that post in 1978.
        Russell George Oswald was born in Racine, Wis., on Aug. 4, 1908. He won 10 letters in high school sports and worked his way through college.
        He studied at the University of Wisconsin and at Marquette University, where he earned a law degree. He also earned a master's degree in psychiatric social work at Loyola University. In World War II, he held a Navy commission, commanding gun crews on cargo ships.  'No Case Is Hopeless'
        Early on, Mr. Oswald held posts as director of county public assistance agencies in the Milwaukee area, Police Commissioner in Racine, director of the Wisconsin Bureau of Probation and Parole and then director of the State Division of Corrections.
        In 1955, Mr. Oswald became Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Correction, where he made clear that he believed that too many prisoners were in maximum-security units around the country. His philosophy was that "no case is hopeless" and that emphasis should be placed on rehabilitation.
        He earned wide praise for humanitarianism and expertise in criminal rehabilitation and Governor Rockefeller appointed him to the New York State Board of Parole in 1957 and as the state's Commissioner of Correctional Services in December 1970.
        In the heat of the Attica uprising, a colleague said of Mr. Oswald, "He is a man who is extremely interested in human beings."
        Survivors, besides his wife, include a son, Kurt, of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      