
        John Behan, a dog trainer who founded Canine College on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and who provided dogs for protection at places like the Museum of Modern Art, Macy's and the Bronx Zoo, died on Monday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 72 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        He died of cardiac arrest, his son, Kevin, said.
        Mr. Behan was a trainer in the Army's K-9 Corps in World War II, and he wrote a book, "The Dogs of War," published by Scribner's, detailing his experiences. On his return to civilian life, he established his first training school, Canine College, on York Avenue. In 1949 he moved the school to West Redding, Conn., where he trained dogs until he retired two years ago. New Tricks for Old Dogs
        He was one of the first people to make dog training a career, and he appeared on a radio show, "Borden County Fair," in the 1930's, teaching an old dog a new trick each week.
        In World War II, after serving in the Coast Guard and rising to chief petty officer, he was transferred to Fort Royal in Virginia when the Army's K-9 Corps dog training began.
        After the war he pioneered in the use of trained dogs outside the military, creating canine programs for police departments across the country. In 1958 he set up a watchdog program for properties of the Great Neck, L.I., school system.
        In addition to providing night and weekend dog patrols for museums and industrial plants, he introduced Doberman pinschers to Macy's on Herald Square and protection dogs to the Bronx Zoo. He trained dogs for such specialized tasks as riding in a car with a doctor to protect against holdups by narcotics addicts. Training the Owners
        Mr. Behan realized early in his career that training the dog owner was at least as important as training the pet -- and perhaps more difficut.
        "When a dog owner takes Rex for a walk," he once told an interviewer, "who takes whom for a walk? Doesn't the owner stop when the dog stops? Doesn't the owner go up the street the dog chooses? That's tyranny."
        Later in his career Mr. Behan served 12 years as chairman of the Redding Conservation Commission, which bought tracts to preserve open space.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Ridgefield, Conn., and who is the proprietor of Canine Arts of Brookfield, Conn., Mr. Behan is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Hall; three daughters, Sharon Lanoue of Redding, Sherlia Holencik of Harrisburg, Pa., and Eileen McCue of Rye, N.H.; two brothers, Joseph, of Mechanicsville, N.Y., and Frank, of Schenectady, N.Y., and nine grandchildren.
      