
        Elie Siegmeister, whose compositions formed part of the cornerstone of the contemporary American symphonic school in the 1930's, died on Sunday at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I.
        He died of a brain tumor, said his daughter Mimi Koren-Zelvin.
        Mr. Siegmeister, who once defined his occupation as "part poet, part structural engineer," composed eight operas, eight symphonies and a large catalogue of songs, choral settings, concertos, orchestral works and chamber pieces.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Siegmeister was concerned with establishing and nurturing an American idiom, and his "American Holiday" (1933) was one of the first compositions to weave American work songs and street melodies into a symphonic fabric. He continued on this path in a series of popular orchestral works, exploring the sounds of the city in "Sunday in Brooklyn" (1946) and taking a more rural view in "Ozark Set" (1943) and "Western Suite" (1945).
        As contemporary musical language grew more angular and harmonically dense, so did Mr. Siegmeister's music, although his deep-rooted lyricism, his fondness for the rhythms and melodic turns of folk music and early jazz and his Romantic orchestrational style were never fully submerged. Social and Political Concerns
        The composer's other principal concern was with what he saw as the artist's responsibility to give voice, through his work, to the social and political causes closest to his heart. In Mr. Siegmeister's case, these were racial equality and pacifism, and he set forth his views in a series of choral works and song cycles that began with "Created Equal" in 1937. In the 1950's, his outspokenness landed him on Senator Joseph McCarthy's blacklist.
        He continued to follow his musical and political agenda in the 1960's, with such works as "I Had a Dream" (1967), a setting of the famous speech by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and "Faces of War" (1968), a work protesting the Vietnam War, with poetry by Langston Hughes.
        Mr. Siegmeister was born on Jan. 15, 1909, in Manhattan. He began his musical studies with Seth Bingham in 1924 and worked with Wallingford Riegger in 1926. After completing his undergraduate work at Columbia University in 1927, when he was 18 years old, Mr. Siegmeister moved to Paris, where he studied for four years with Nadia Boulanger.
        In Paris and upon his return to New York in 1932, he became friendly with Aaron Copland, Virgil Thomson and other young composers who were striving to establish an American school. Rooted in Time and Place
        "I make a distinction," he told an interviewer in 1976, "between nationalism as a political movement and nationalism as the root of art in each particular people. The greatest art comes from a writer, painter, poet or composer who responds to his own environment, people and tradition. This doesn't preclude an artist from being universal, but I think he must be rooted to a time and place."
        During the 1930's, Mr. Siegmeister also spent time with folk and blues musicians, among them Woody Guthrie, Huddie (Leadbelly) Ledbetter and Cisco Houston, and he toured the United States collecting and notating folk, popular and rural melodies. In 1939, he formed the American Ballad Singers to perform this material, and the following year he published music he had collected in "A Treasury of American Song," on which he collaborated with the music critic Olin Downes.
        The main thrust of his work, however, was in classical genres. His operas include "Darling Corie" (1952), "Miranda and the Dark Young Man" (1955), "The Mermaid in Lock No. 7" (1958), "The Plough and the Stars" (1963), "Night of the Moonspell" (1976), "The Marquesa of O" (1983), "The Lady of the Lake" (1985) and "Angel Levine" (1985).
        Mr. Siegmeister was composer in residence at Hofstra University from 1966 to 1976. He contributed articles on aspects of American music to several publications, and in addition to the 1940 "Treasury," he published four books: "Work and Sing" (1944), "Invitation to Music" (1961), "Harmony and Melody" (1966) and "The New Music Lover's Handbook" (1973).
        He is survived by his wife, Hannah, two daughters -- Mrs. Koren-Zelvin, of Larchmont, N.Y., and Nancy Mandel of Los Angeles -- and two grandchildren, Nathaniel Koren of Montpelier, Vt., and Sasha Koren of Providence, R.I. Mrs. Koren-Zelvin said that a memorial concert of Mr. Siegmeister's music was being arranged, and that a fund was being established in his memory by Ascap.
      