
        Former Representative Albert McKinley Rains of Alabama, who left his imprint on much of the housing legislation enacted in his two decades on Capitol Hill, died Friday at Holy Name of Jesus Medical Center in Gadsden, Ala. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Rains, a Democrat, was first elected to Congress from Alabama's Fifth Congressional District in 1944 and rose to the chairmanship of the housing subcommittee of the House Banking and Currency Committee. While he was one of the foremost champions in Congress of more and better public housing, his legislative interests also extended to agriculture, Social Security and foreign aid.
        He was the author or co-author of much of the housing legislation enacted after World War II, including expansion of Federal programs in public housing and urban renewal, military and veterans' housing, college dormitory construction, housing for the elderly and assistance to families trying to own a home of their own. Switch From Teaching to Law
        Mr. Rains, a native of Groveoak in De Kalb County, in northeastern Alabama, attended public schools before graduating from State Teachers College in Jacksonville, Ala., and the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa. He became a high school teacher, but soon found that his main interest was the law.
        He was admitted to the bar in 1928, and became one of his state's most prominent lawyers as a member of the firm of Rains & Rains in Gadsden. He also served as deputy solicitor for Etowah County and, from 1935 to 1944, as Gadsden's city attorney.
        Mr. Rains was elected to the Alabama Legislature in 1942, won the Democratic nomination for Congress in 1944 and ran unopposed that November. He went on to serve in the 89th Congress and nine succeeding Congresses. He left the House in January 1965.
        After his Congressional service, Mr. Rains returned to the practice of law in Gadsden. He also was chairman of the First City National Bank in that city, and was the author of a book, "With a Heritage So Rich."
        Mr. Rains is survived by his wife of 51 years, the former Allison Blair, and a sister, Magnolia Michaels of Talladega, Ala.
      