
        Jerome (Doc) Pomus, who with his partner, Mort Shuman, was one of the most successful rock-and-roll songwriters of the early 1960's, died yesterday at Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lung cancer, his brother, Raoul, said.
        Among the hit songs written by Mr. Pomus and Mr. Shuman were "Save the Last Dance for Me," "A Teen-Ager in Love" and "This Magic Moment."
        Mr. Pomus, whose real name was Jerome Solon Felder, was born in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. He began his musical career as a blues singer and songwriter in the early 1950's. His hero was the blues singer Big Joe Turner, for whom he wrote such songs as "Still in Love," "Boogie Woogie Country Girl," "Love Rollercoaster" and "I Need a Girl."  Songs for Ray Charles
        Mr. Pomus also wrote songs that Ray Charles recorded in the mid-1950's, including the rhythm-and-blues classic "Lonely Avenue" (1956) and -- with the team of Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller -- the Coasters' 1957 hit "Young Blood."
        During the Pomus-Shuman collaboration, which began in early 1958, Mr. Pomus, who was known to be a streetwise phrase maker, wrote most of the lyrics while Mr. Shuman composed the music. They quickly scored successes for the 15-year-old singer Fabian ("I'm a Man" and "Turn Me Loose") and for Bobby Darin ("Plain Jane"). Their first major pop hit was "A TeenAger in Love," written for Dion and the Belmonts in 1959.
        The collaboration reached its artistic and commercial peak with a succession of hits for the Drifters that included "This Magic Moment," "Save the Last Dance for Me," "I Count the Tears" and "Sweets for My Sweet."
        The team also wrote regularly for Elvis Presley, who recorded "A Mess o' Blues," "His Latest Flame," "Little Sister," "Surrender," "She's Not for You" and the title song for the film "Viva Las Vegas," among others. The Pomus-Shuman partnership dissolved in 1965 and, after a fall that left him confined to a wheelchair, Mr. Pomus -- who had been handicapped since a polio attack at age 9 -- went into semi-retirement.  Assembled Blues Brothers Band
        He re-emerged in the mid-1970's. Working with John Belushi, he was responsible for putting together the band that supported the Blues Brothers. He also teamed with Mac Rebennack, known as Dr. John, and wrote the songs for Dr. John's albums "City Lights" and "Tango Palace." With Mr. Rebennack he also wrote most of the material for B. B. King's album "There Must Be a Better World Somewhere," which won a 1981 Grammy Award for best ethnic or traditional recording. Some of Mr. Pomus's songs were also used on the sound tracks of the films "Dick Tracy" and "Cry Baby."
        At the time of his death he was working with Dr. John on songs for another B. B. King record. Two weeks ago Mr. Pomus was given a Pioneer Award from the Rhythm-and-Blues Foundation. He was the first white musician to be so honored.
        Mr. Pomus's marriage ended in divorce. His companion was Shirlee Hauser.
        In addition to his brother, he is survived by a daughter, Sharyn Felder Bratton, and a son, Geoffrey, all of New York. A memorial service is to be held on Sunday at 12:30 P.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street.
      