
        Henry J. Muessen, who headed the Piel Brothers brewery, one of New York's many large producers of beer in the first half of the century, died on Monday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Stamford. He was 88 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y.
        He died of pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Muessen was president, chairman and chief executive of Piel's when it was sold in 1962 to the American subsidiary of Drewry's Ltd., the British brewing concern. He retired three years later after having been with the brewery since it resumed production after repeal of Prohibition in 1933, when he signed on as a salesman.
        It was under Mr. Muessen's direction that Piel's developed the "Bert and Harry" advertising campaign on radio and television, among the first and one of the most celebrated attempts to use humor to sell a product on television. In the animated spots, the comedy team of Bob Elliott and Ray Goulding became the personification of the Piel Brothers.
        Piel's brewery was founded in Brooklyn by Michael Piel in 1883 and soon became part of a booming industry that reached its height in the early years of the century when most of the beer consumed in New York was brewed in the city.
        Along with labels like Rheingold, Schaefer, Schlitz and Ruppert, Piel's thrived before and after Prohibition, which began in 1919 and lasted 14 years. Piel's expanded from Brooklyn with the purchase of a Staten Island brewery in 1953 and also had a plant in Willimansett, Mass., for many years.
        Mr. Muessen was born in Cedar Grove, Ind., and was a graduate of the Baltimore Polytechnic Institute. At Piel's he rose to vice president and general manager in 1943 and became the brewery's third president in 1953 upon the death of William Piel, son of the founder.
        Mr. Meussen's wife, the former Pauline Nichols, died in 1978. He is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Lincoln of Harrison; a son, Henry Jr., of Bluffton, S.C., five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      