
        Albert M. Sacks, dean of the Harvard University Law School from 1971 to 1981, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 70 years old and lived in Belmont, Mass.
        He died of lymphoma, a spokesman for the law school said.
        In his 10 years as dean, Mr. Sacks developed the school's comprehensive clinical teaching program and its mandatory course on professional responsibility. He also established the Office of Clinical Programs and the Legal Services Institute in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston. He also expanded opportunities for research by members of the law school faculty.
        Mr. Sacks, a specialist in constitutional law and legal process, joined the faculty at the law school in 1952 and served for 39 years. He was named a professor in 1955, and was regarded as one of the law school's most popular teachers. From 1968 to 1971 he served as associate dean of the school during turbulent years on campus. In 1969 he was named Dane Professor of Law and became dean two years later. Saying 10 years was a proper tenure, he stepped down as dean in 1981 and resumed teaching.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Sacks graduated magna cum laude from City College of New York in 1940. After serving in World War II, he attended Harvard Law School, where he was president of the Harvard Law Review. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1948.
        He then served as a law clerk for Justice Augustus Hand of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and from 1949 to 1950 was a law clerk for Justice Felix Frankfurter of the Supreme Court.
        He then worked as an associate at Covington & Burling in Washington before joining the faculty at Harvard.
        Mr. Sacks was a past president of the Association of American Law Schools and a member of the United States Supreme Court Advisory Committee on Rules of Civil Procedure. He was also chairman of Home Rule Commission in Boston and had served on the Massachusetts Attorney General's advisory committee on civil rights and civil liberties.
        He is survived by his wife, Sadelle; two daughters, Janet Sacks of Bedford, Mass., and Margery Ablon of Lloyds Harbor, L.I.; and three grandchildren.
      