
        Thomas E. Sunderland, a lawyer and business leader who helped lead the United Fruit Company out of a slump in the 1960's, died on Friday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 83 years old.
        His death resulted from congestive heart failure, a family spokeswoman said.
        When Mr. Sunderland took over United Fruit, a major banana-selling company, in 1959, profits had been shrinking for nearly a decade and its stock value had tumbled from $7.54 to $1.39 a share. He imposed major changes, including a simplified executive structure, and oversaw the development of disease-resistant bananas to replace vulnerable varieties. He also helped the company to diversify into freeze-dried foods and improved the marketability of its product by reviving the Chiquita banana trademark.
        In the decade before he directed United Fruit, Mr. Sunderland, an expert in antitrust issues and international negotiations, was the general counsel and a vice president of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana. After leaving United Fruit in 1968, he retired to Phoenix and joined the law firm of Snell & Wilmer, practicing for 10 years.
        Thomas Elbert Sunderland was born on April 28, 1907, in Ann Arbor, Mich., where his father was a professor at the University of Michigan Law School. The son also entered the university, earning a bachelor's degree summa cum laude, and he completed studies for a law degree at the University of California at Berkeley.
        For neary a decade, he practiced corporate law with three leading firms in Manhattan. He then served eight years as the general counsel and vice president of the Pan American Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of Standard Oil of Indiana, before holding the same posts with the parent company.
        In World War II, he was an administrator in the Air Force in Europe, earning a Bronze Star and rising to lieutenant colonel.
        Surviving are his wife of 44 years, the former Mary Louise Allyn; three daughters, Louise of Wilmette, Ill., Anne of Chicago and Mary of Westfield, N.J.; two sisters, Alice Wethey and Elizabeth, both of Ann Arbor, and two grandchildren.
      