
        LeRoy Collins, who was Governor of Florida from 1955 to 1961 and an early "New South" politician who sought to promote racial justice in the region, died in his sleep at his home in Tallahassee yesterday, two days after his 82d birthday.
        Mr. Collins had surgery for colon cancer in 1986 and three years later was found to be suffering from lung cancer. He had been undergoing chemotherapy since then.
        A lawyer and member of the Florida Legislature for two decades, beginning in 1934, Mr. Collins emerged from a conservative "Old South" background at a critical time to play a part in helping to transform the region politically, economically and socially.  Took Unpopular Stances
        At the height of the civil rights movement, Mr. Collins took widely unpopular positions, urging Floridians to accept integration of the state's public institutions and promoting equal treatment of blacks by commercial and other interests. "I realized that we had to change," he said later.
        In 1965, he represented President Lyndon B. Johnson during the civil rights march by followers of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. from Selma, Ala., to the state capital.
        During the years when Mr. Collins held public office and continuing through the 1960's, he was derided by opponents as "Liberal LeRoy" and he was defeated in a 1968 campaign for a seat in the United States Senate by a Republican, Ed Gurney. After the campaign, Mr. Collins decided he would not seek elective office again.
        Aside from his activities in promoting racial harmony, he was known for the changes he helped bring about in education and health care in Florida and for his efforts to bring high-technology industries to the state.
        Mr. Collins was born in Tallahassee, the son of the owner of a small general store. He later studied at the Eastman Business School in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and received a degree from the Cumberland Law School in Lebanon, Tenn.
        In 1934, at the age of 25, he won his first election for political office, to represent Leon County in the Florida House. After three terms, he won election to the Florida Senate in 1940. He resigned during his second term in the Senate to serve in the Navy in World War II. After the war he was re-elected to the Senate, in 1946 and 1950. Pushed Education Measures
        While in the Senate, he pushed educational measures, including a law that equalized financing among poor rural counties and wealthy urban ones.
        In 1954 he ran for the unexpired two-year term of Gov. Dan McCarthy, who died while in office. Mr. Collins won a runoff, defeating Charley E. Johns, the Senate President and acting Governor.
        Two years after he became Governor, Florida's public schools and higher education was racially segregated, and a Gallup Poll indicated that four of five white Floridians opposed the United States Supreme Court's 1954 school-desegregation ruling.
        Although he had endorsed segregation in his 1954 and 1956 campaigns for Governor, Mr. Collins said his objectives were "to preserve order, obey the courts and keep the schools open." Denounced Store Owners
        As the civil rights movement spread, with sit-ins at lunch-counters in several Florida cities, Mr. Collins went on radio and television in March 1960 to denounce white owners of stores who encouraged blacks to patronize parts of their establishments but denied service to them in others.
        He later explained his views on race relations, saying that he had accepted segregation "because I considered that this was the way it was supposed to be," but that he later realized segregation had to end "because it denied fairness and equal opportunity and equal advantage for a large part of our population."
        He is a former chairman of the Southern Governors' Conference and the National Governors' Conference, and he was chairman of the 1960 Democratic National Convention that nominated John F. Kennedy for President.
        In early 1961, after leaving the Florida Statehouse, Mr. Collins moved to Washington, where he served as president of the National Association of Broadcasters until 1964.
        He served as director of the Federal Community Relations Service in 1964 and 1965, after organizing the agency to try to keep the peace at the request of President Johnson after passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. It was in that capacity that he represented the Johnson Administration in Alabama, helping to mediate between Dr. King's followers and the police.
        Mr. Collins was Under Secretary of Commerce in 1965 and 1966. In 1970, he joined the Tallahassee law firm Evans, Varn, Jacobs & Odom.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Call Darby; a son, Thomas Jr. of Tampa; three daughters, Jane Aurell and Mary Proctor of Tallahassee and Darby Begeman of Miami, and several grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 15, 1991, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about LeRoy Collins, a former Governor of Florida, misidentified the Tallahassee law firm that he joined in 1970. It was Ervin, Varn, Jacobs & Odom.
      