
        William Lacy Brown, a geneticist who directed the development and coordination of breeding programs in maize, sorghum, soybeans and wheat, died yesterday at his home in Johnston, Iowa. He was 77 years old.
        He died of emphysema, said his son, William T. Brown of Johnston.
        Dr. Brown was affiliated for almost 40 years with Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. one of the world's largest producers and marketers of hybrid seed corn.
        He joined the company in 1945 as a geneticist and breeder of corn for domestic and livestock consumption. In 1958 he was named assistant director of research and in 1964 became a vice president and director of corporate research. Ten years later he was appointed president of the company and in 1979 he was named chairman and chief executive. He retired in 1984.
        After earning a doctorate from Washington University in St. Louis in 1941, he worked briefly for the Department of Agriculture in Washington as a geneticist. From 1942 to 1945 he was director of sweet-corn breeding for the Rogers Brothers Company in Olivia, Minn.
        Born on a livestock farm in Greenbrier, W.Va., Dr. Brown devoted his life to developing improved strains of corn. He was active with the Committee on the Preservation of Indigenous Strains of Maize of the National Research Council-National Academy of Sciences and classified maize collected in Bolivia and Chile. He was a Fulbright scholar at the Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture, now the University of the West Indies, and also served on the National Board of Plant Genetic Resources.
        He was a director of the Rockefeller Foundation's advisory committee on maize and was chairman of Genetic Resources Communication Systems Inc.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Alice; a daughter, Alicia Brown-Matthes of Iowa City; two sisters, Mary Mildren Gum of Leesburg, Va., and Louise Butcher of Greenbrier, W.Va.; a brother, S. L. Brown of Richwood, W.Va.; and two grandchildren.
      