
        Lieut. Col. Anthony F. Story, the personal pilot of Gen. Douglas MacArthur from 1945, when he began ruling occupied Japan, until 1951, when he was removed from command in the Korean War, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 years old.
        Colonel Story, who lived in Manhattan, died of complications from a stroke, a family spokesman said.
        When General MacArthur returned his plane, a Constellation called the Bataan, to the Pentagon in May 1951, he expressed gratitude for "a great plane, a great crew, a great pilot." A month earlier, the five-star general had been dismissed by President Harry S. Truman because of his differences with Mr. Truman and the Joint Chiefs of Staff over Chinese Communist intervention in Korea.
        Colonel Story soon left active duty to become a corporate executive in Manhattan. He was, successively, the vice president for exports of the American Distilling Company; president of the American branch of the Jaeger Watch Company, Swiss chronometer makers; an underwriter in several Wall Street brokerage firms, and a senior management consultant with Atwater Bradley & Partners. He retired in 1967.  Called Tony
        Tony Story, as friends called him, was born and educated in Troy, Mo., where he and friends taught each other to fly at a small airfield where they did maintenance on light planes. He became a wing walker on stunt planes at Midwest county fairs and learned navigation in a school adjoining an Army Air Corps station in Homestead, Fla.
        In World War II, he was a ferry pilot with the Royal Air Force and then transferred to the American Army Air Corps, transporting diplomats and other dignitaries around the Atlantic and the Pacific. He accrued more than 7,000 hours of flying time, and his awards included the Silver Star, Legion of Merit and Distinguished Flying Cross.
        His wife, Judy Lane, an entertainer and later an executive with the U.S.O., died in 1979. There are no immediate survivors.
      