
        Dr. David Harker, a pioneer in the use of X-rays to decipher the structure of critical substances in the life process of cells, died on Wednesday at Buffalo General Hospital after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        He died from the effects of a heart condition and pneumonia, said Dr. William Duax of the Medical Foundation of Buffalo, where Dr. Harker was research scientist emeritus.
        In 1967 Dr. Harker led a group at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo that determined the complex structure of ribonuclease, a protein formed of more than 1,000 atoms. The substance is the enzyme that breaks down ribonucleic acid (RNA) when it has completed its function. RNA is created by the substance that makes up the genetic archive in cells, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), to synthesize proteins that govern basic cellular processes. Failure to destroy RNA could lead to uncontrolled growth of cells. Culmination of 16-Year Effort
        Ribonuclease was one of the first proteins deciphered in this manner, having followed the elucidation, in England, of two others: myoglobin and lysozyme. The achievement at Roswell Park resulted from an effort of 16 years. The method, known as X-ray crystallography, records the manner in which atoms in a substance scatter a beam of X-rays. The target substance must be crystalline with the atoms arranged in the symmetrical manner typical of a crystal.
        Since Dr. Harker's early work, such crystallography has revealed the molecular structure of hormones, proteins, drugs and antibiotics, facilitating alterations to make such substances more effective.
        Dr. Harker was born in San Francisco and educated at the University of California and the California Institute of Technology, where he obtained his doctorate in 1936. He worked there under Dr. Linus Pauling, whose feats of analysis won him a Nobel Prize.
        In his doctoral studies, Dr. Duax said, Dr. Harker developed an analytical technique that revolutionized the field of X-ray crystallography, providing detailed information on the three-dimensional structure of numerous molecules.
        He was at Johns Hopkins University from 1936 to 1941, then spent the years of World War II at the General Electric Research Laboratory, using crystallography to study new rocket fuels and other substances. From 1950 to 1959 he was director of the protein structure program at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. He then took his team of analysts to Roswell Park where, until 1976, he was director of the Center for Crystallographic Research.
        He is survived by his second wife, Deborah Anne Maxwell Harker, as well as by two daughters by his first wife, who is deceased. They are Titiana Harker Yeats and Ludmilla Harker.
      