
        Paul S. Mirabito, the former chairman of the Burroughs Corporation, under whose leadership an office machine company became a major military contractor and computer manufacturer, died yesterday at his home in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75 years old and also had a home in Birmingham, Mich.
        He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Mirabito was the controller of the Control Instrument Company of Brooklyn when it became a subsidiary of Burroughs in 1951. He had joined Control Instrument in 1942 after graduating from New York University in 1938 with an M.B.A. and working for the New York City Comptroller's office and for Haskins & Sells, certified public accountants.
        He was assistant controller of Burroughs in Detroit from 1951 to 1955. He was then named general manager of military contracts and helped lay the groundwork for Burroughs's involvement in the Atlas missile program and in the Gemini space project of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He was named vice president in 1960 and in 1965 was appointed executive vice president and named a director.
        He was president and chief operating officer from 1973 to 1977 when he became chairman, president and chief executive. When he retired in 1980 Burroughs had become a major computer manufacturer serving banks, airlines, the health care industry and the Government. In 1986 Burroughs merged with the Sperry Corporation to become the Unisys Corporation. He was a director of many companies and was active in civic affairs in Detroit.
        He is survived by his wife, Virginia; two sons, Terrence of West Bloomfield, Mich., and Kent of Birmingham, Mich; two daughters, Maureen Catanese of Birmingham, Mich., and Lynn of Brooklyn; two brothers, Bart of Newtown, Conn., and Anthony of City Island in the Bronx; two sisters, Genevieve Stiefel of Princteon Junction, N.J., and Beatrice Schmaeling of New Hyde Park. L.I.; eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      