
        James (Cool Papa) Bell, the sharp-eyed batter and blazing base runner who was widely regarded as the fastest man ever to play baseball, died Thursday night in St. Louis University Hospital, where he had been treated after suffering a heart attack last Saturday.
        He was 87 years old and after his retirement as a player in 1946 spent 21 years as custodian and nightwatchman at St. Louis City Hall. He never played in the major leagues because of baseball's ban on black players, but he became one of the most adored and acclaimed legends of the game after his induction into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1974.
        The man they called Cool Papa earned his nickname almost 70 years ago. As a 19-year-old Mississippi-born rookie outfielder wise beyond his baseball years, he proved to his older teammates that he was no more intimidated by big crowds than he was by a pitcher's fastball or pickoff throw to first.
        Still Fast at 45
        For anybody who wasn't around when he broke in with the St. Louis Stars of the Negro leagues in 1922 or who was not paying attention as he tore up the basepaths and compiled a .338 batting average over the next 24 seasons, Bell, at the age of 45, provided a riveting retrospective of his renowned finesse during a post-season all-star game in Los Angeles in 1948. It came two years after his retirement, against a team led by one of the Cleveland Indians' aces, Bob Lemon.
        Bell, who had no warm-up time and had to scamper around the outfield to loosen up his old muscles, took two brushback pitches his first time up, then rapped a double to right field.
        By the time he singled his next time up, Bell, who had watched Lemon pitch on television, had tagged him as a one-stare pitcher, one who invariably delivered a pitch after a single hard stare to the base runner at first. Circling the Bases
        Sure enough, as soon as Lemon looked away to throw to the next batter, Satchel Paige, Bell, knowing Paige would bunt, was on his way to second.
        Rounding second without drawing a throw, Bell, noticing that the third baseman had failed to return to the base after charging the bunt, kept on going.
        When the catcher ran toward third with the ball, Bell, seeing home was now uncovered, blithely sidestepped the tag and coolly sped across the plate.
        It was considered a truly remarkable performance, the more so because it was one of the few times Bell had played against white players or before a predominantly white crowd. Statistics Pieced Together
        Bell, who spent his entire career playing in the Negro leagues and in Latin America, retired a year before Jackie Robinson broke the major league color barrier in 1947. Over the previous 25 seasons, however, Bell displayed all the credentials of a major league star.
        The record of Bell's career is based on a reconstruction of statistics covering his 20 Negro leagues seasons and omitting his five full Latin American seasons and extensive winter league play. A contact hitter who said he could drive the ball exactly where he wanted to 9 times out of 10, Bell had two .400 seasons, his first and his last. He hit .417 as a Stars rookie in 1922 and .429 with the Homestead Grays in 1946. His other teams in the Negro leagues were the Detroit Wolves, the Kansas City Monarchs, the Pittsburgh Crawfords and the Chicago American Giants.
        He also stole 173 bases with such ease that his speed aquired mythic proportions. Paige used to regale audiences about the time Bell made an out at second by running into his own line drive, or about Bell's ability to flip the light switch at his bedroom door and be under the covers across the room before the light went out. Elected to Hall of Fame
        Bell, who was born in Starkville, Miss., on May 17, 1903, accepted the racial restrictions of the era even though he was sometimes relegated to the bleachers when he attended a major league game.
        He proved forgiving after his election to the Hall of Fame in 1974, graciously appearing at the annual induction ceremonies year after year and allowing the fans to make up for lost time by giving him the most thunderous applause of the day.
        When he was notified of his election, Bell, as cool as ever, said it was his biggest honor but not his biggest thrill. That, he said, "was when they opened the door in the majors to black players."
      