
        Edward Stierle, a leading dancer with the Joffrey Ballet who created two ballets for the company this season, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. He was 23 years old.
        He died of AIDS, his sister, Rosemarie, said.
        Mr. Stierle (pronounced STIR-lee) was born in Hollywood, Fla. He began to study dance at age 4 as a pupil in his sister's tap class. Six years later he started ballet classes, enrolling in the North Carolina School of the Arts at age 15.
        The next year he won a gold medal at the International Prix de Lausanne Competition, and joined the Basel Ballet, where he danced for a year. In 1989, he won a gold medal at the International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss. Robert Joffrey was one of the judges, and shortly after Mr. Stierle joined the Joffrey Ballet.
        A small, slightly built dancer, Mr. Stierle won a place for himself in ballet through his daring pyrotechnical dancing. But he quickly became known for the variety of dramatic and pure dance roles he performed at the Joffrey. "Part of my desire as an artist is to constantly stretch myself to the very limit," he said in an interview in 1989.
        A new kind of stretch came with Mr. Stierle's creation of "Lacrymosa" and "Empyrean Dances," which are being performed by the Joffrey in its current engagement at the New York State Theater. Mr. Stierle began to choreograph early, creating the solo he danced in the Lausanne Competition. But these were his first major works. Anna Kisselgoff, chief dance critic of The New York Times, described "Lacrymosa" as "gripping and deeply felt," adding, in a review of "Empyrean Dances," that Mr. Stierle had a "stunning talent."
        Mr. Stierle tested positive for the AIDS virus in 1988 and was diagnosed with AIDS three months ago. He had dedicated "Lacrymosa" to Mr. Joffrey, but later said that the ballet was also "a lot about what I was going through at the time."
        He is survived by his parents, William and Rose, of Hollywood, Fla.; three brothers: Michael, of Wheeling, W.Va.; Bill, of Los Angeles; Thomas, of Dayton, Ohio; and four sisters: Terrie Guttiere, of Hollywood, Fla.; Rosemarie Worton, of Atlantic City, N.J.; Katherine Thomas, of Gainsville, Fla., and Patricia, of Columbia, S.C.
      