
        The Rev. John L. McKenzie, a pioneering and outspoken Roman Catholic biblical scholar, died last Saturday at the Claremont Manor Convalescent Hospital in Claremont, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        He died of heart disease, his doctor said.
        Through scholarly and popular writings, Father McKenzie helped bring about the general acceptance by Catholic scholars and church authorities of scientific techniques of investigating Scripture, which had been highly suspect in Catholic circles when he began his career.
        "The Two-Edged Sword," his widely used introduction to the Old Testament, was published in 1956, but only after being delayed by church authorities for more than three years.
        In 1966 he was elected president of the Society of Biblical Literature, the first priest named to head that organization of researchers on scriptural texts. The event marked the convergence of Catholic scriptural research with other work in the field. A year earlier, Father McKenzie had become the first Catholic faculty member at the University of Chicago Divinity School.  Largely Self-Taught
        Born on Oct. 9, 1910, in Brazil, Ind., he entered the Jesuit order after high school and was ordained a priest in 1939. He earned a doctorate in theology in 1942 but was largely self-taught in the 10 languages and other background that he brought to biblical research.
        He taught courses on the Old Testament at the Jesuit seminary in West Baden, Ind., for 18 years. He later had appointments at Loyola University, DePaul University and Mundelein College, all in Chicago, the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's of the Woods College in Indiana and Seton Hall University in New Jersey. He participated in several archeological investigations in the Middle East.
        In 1965 and 1966 alone he published four books, including "The Power and the Wisdom," a popular interpretation of the New Testament; "Authority in the Church," (Sheed & Ward) a book arguing that service rather than secular models of government should define the church's use of authority, and a 900,000-word "Dictionary of the Bible," an unusual undertaking for a single scholar. He wrote many other books, scholarly articles and popular essays. Critic of Authorities
        Father McKenzie was an acerbic critic of both religious and civil authorities. In 1966, when Archbishop Robert E. Lucey of San Antonio said that "Authority in the Church" was "obviously" and "openly" heretical, Father McKenzie publicly challenged the prelate to file formal charges of heresy, a challenge that was not taken up.
        In conversation he was frequently hyperbolic, summing up Rome, for example, in a few words: "It stinks. There are too many clergy there." His prose was clear and studded with aphorisms. He was an outspoken pacifist and critic of American foreign policy. Although strongly identified with liberal forces in the Catholic church, he was skeptical about government power, which made him impatient with most liberal and radical proposals for social improvement.
        He had retired to Claremont 13 years ago. Although he had left the Jesuit order, he continued to serve as a priest in a local parish and to lecture and write.
        He is survived by a brother, James H., and a sister, Margaret, both of Terre Haute, Ind.
      