
        Joseph C. Dey Jr., generally regarded as the most influential administrator in the history of golf, died yesterday at this home in Locust Valley, L.I. He was 83 years old.
        He had been suffering from cancer, a family representative said.
        From 1934 to 1969, Mr. Dey served as the executive director of the United States Golf Association, where he came to be known as Mr. Golf. He left the U.S.G.A. to serve for five years as the first commissioner of the independent professional circuit that is now known as the PGA Tour.
        With Mr. Dey at the helm, the U.S.G.A. became the undisputed guardian of the game's traditions in the United States. And until his death, Mr. Dey was considered one of the foremost experts on the Rules of Golf. In 1951, he almost singlehandedly instituted a uniform code of rules for both the U.S.G.A. and the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, Scotland, which is considered the international guardian of golf tradition. He also helped to start five U.S.G.A. Championships and four international team competitions. Familiar Face at the Open
        Through the late 1960's, Mr. Dey became a familiar figure to followers of the game: the raven-haired, upright man wearing blue blazer and regiment-striped tie who walked beside players like Ben Hogan and Ken Venturi during their victorious final rounds in the United States Open. Mr. Dey also set the course conditions for the Open, prompting Sports Illustrated to call him "the man who makes the grass grow."
        At the age of 61, Mr. Dey left the U.S.G.A. to become the commissioner of the Tournament Players Division of the Professional Golfers Association, which had just gone through an acrimonious split with the PGA of America. In his five-year tenure with the tour, Mr. Dey was instrumental in improving the tournament conditions and purses.
        Upon learning of Mr. Dey's death yesterday, golf's leading figures expressed their sorrow.
        C. Grant Spaeth, president of the U.S.G.A., said of Mr. Dey, "One sentence cannot capture the extent of our reverence, our gratitude or our loss, not simply because Joe was the overpowering force in golf for four decades, but because he lived a principled and exemplary life of service."
        Deane Beman, the commissioner of the PGA Tour, who in 1974 succeeded Mr. Dey, said: "Joe Dey will always be remembered in the world of golf. His 40 years of devotion to the game has proven to be instrumental in the popularity and success of golf. He will truly be missed by everyone associated with the sport." 'Most Influential Person'
        "Outside of my father and Jack Grout, Joe Dey was the most influential person in my life," Jack Nicklaus, who first met Mr. Dey at the age of 13, said. Grout was Mr. Nicklaus's primary golf teacher.
        "From the moment I met him, I could tell that he was in charge of the game of golf," Mr. Nicklaus said of Mr. Dey. "Every time I had a question or a problem about what was right, I always picked up the phone and placed a call to Joe. I knew I would always get the right answer, whether it was what I wanted to hear or not. We loved him."
        Mr. Dey was born Nov. 17, 1907, in Norfolk, Va. His family moved to New Orleans in 1910. He attended the University of Pennsylvania, but dropped out to become a sportswriter. He worked for The New Orleans Times-Picayune, The Philadelphia Public Leader and The Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
        His speciality was golf, and he covered the 1930 United States Amateur at Merion, where Bobby Jones completed the sport's Grand Slam, which at that time also included the United States Open and the British Amateur and British Open. Mr. Dey left The Bulletin to take his position with the U.S.G.A.
        Mr. Dey won nearly every award that the golf world offers, including the 1961 William D. Richardson Trophy, given for distinguished service by the Golf Writers Association of America, the 1967 Gold Tee Award, given by the Metropolitan (New York) Golf Writers Association and the 1977 Bob Jones Award, given for sportsmanship by the U.S.G.A. In 1975, he became the 205th person -- but only the second American -- elected Captain of the Royal and Ancient. He was inducted into the PGA/World Golf Hall of Fame, in Pinehurst, N.C., in 1975.
        Mr. Dey is survived by a son, Edward K. Dey of Paris, and a granddaughter, Alix Alquier Dey. His wife of 53 years, the former Rosalie Knapp, died in 1990.
      