
        Peter H. Ohm, founder and publisher of Korea Times, the largest Korean-American newspaper in the New York City area, and the owner of a Korean-American television station, died on Friday at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Florida. He was 59 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        He suffered a stroke while playing golf at the Professional Golfers Association National Golf Club at Palm Beach Gardens, where he kept a winter residence, said Hogan Yoon, chairman of Panasian Communications Inc.
        Mr. Ohm established Korea Times in 1967 in Manhattan, later moving to Long Island City. The paper is published daily except Sunday in Korean, with a weekly edition in English.
        He was also president of Panasian Communications and chairman of Korean Broadcasting Inc., which is part of Panasian. He was the first Korean-American to own a television station. It broadcasts 24 hours a day, mostly in Korean, on Channel 53.
        Born in Hong Won, in northeastern Korea, Mr. Ohm came to the United States as a student in 1955. He attended Buffalo University and the University of Rochester, where he received a master's degree in science.
        After working several years for a chemical company, he decided to go into journalism. There were only a couple of thousand Koreans in the New York area at that time, but Mr. Ohm foresaw the growth of the community which now numbers about 300,000.
        Active in community affairs, he was chairman of the Korea Community Service Association of New York and director of United Way for ethnic Asian affairs. He also served as vice chairman of the Korean War Veterans Memorial Commission.
        In 1986, he received the Ethnic New Yorker Award from Mayor Edward I. Koch for his gifts to the local Asian community. He also received medals from the Republic of Korea for service to the Korean-American community.
        He is survived by his wife, Gemma, and a son, Anthony, who is a student at Brown University.
      