
        William Joshua Barney Jr., a prominent figure in equestrian circles for 40 years, died on Thursday at Doctors Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 79 years old and had been suffering from emphysema, a family friend said.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Barney, who maintained homes in Sarasota, New York, and Southport, Conn., was chairman of the W. J. Barney Corporation, a New York contracting and construction company that was established by his father in 1917.
        Over the last four decades, few people have been as closely associated with the equestrian movement in the United States as Mr. Barney. There were few senior executive positions in the equestrian field that Mr. Barney did not hold at one time or another, sometimes twice, and often for many years. Array of Positions
        Among other things, he served as secretary, president and chairman of the National Horse Show in New York; chairman of the United States Equestrian Team, and treasurer of the American Horse Shows Association, the national equestrian governing body. After his active service, Mr. Barney was named honorary life director of the three organizations.
        Mr. Barney, who was known as Josh, was born in New York and educated at the Allen-Stevenson and Choate schools and at Yale. After his graduation in 1933, he joined his father's company and held several positions until he left to serve as an officer in the Navy during World War II.
        After the war, Mr. Barney rejoined the company, becoming chairman in 1971.
        Although he was a full-time executive and a registered engineer who was active in many professional organizations, Mr. Barney was best known for his volunteer work in the close-knit equestrian world. Officiating Role
        For Mr. Barney, who never competed in equestrian events, it was a world he entered through his wife, the former Priscilla Payne Harvey, an accomplished horsewoman who rode hunters and jumpers and became a judge in both divisions.
        Despite his lack of competitive background, Mr. Barney, too, became a judge, officiating at events here and in Europe, and along with his wife he became a benefactor of the United States Equestrian Team.
        The couple, who were married in 1940, lent horses to the team for use in international competition. Among them were Master William, who Hugh Wiley rode in winning the prestigious George V Gold Cup in London before placing seventh at the Olympic Games in Rome in 1960. Honored This Year
        Mr. Barney, who helped establish the National Horse Show Foundation in 1982, received the foundation's award of merit in 1987. Earlier this year he was named winner of the American Horse Shows Association's Walter Devereaux Sportsmanship Award.
        In addition to his work with equestrian organizations, Mr. Barney was an active supporter of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, serving on its board of managers.
        Mr. Barney is survived by his wife.
      