
        Loring McMillen, a former civil engineer for the New York Telephone Company whose love of local history led to the development of Richmondtown, a museum and historical village on Staten Island, died on Tuesday at his home in Richmondtown. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. McMillen retired in 1966 from the telephone company, where for 38 years he had designed cable tracks and conduits. He then turned his attention to the history of Staten Island.
        He was one of the 11 original members of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, served as director of the Staten Island Historical Society and was the borough's official historian for more than 50 years.
        "I was interested in the history of Staten Island since I was big enough to be interested in almost anything," he said in a 1988 interview.  Helped Relocate Old Homes
        In 1967 he was named executive director of Richmondtown Restoration, an idea he had nurtured for more than 30 years. The 100-acre outdoor museum and village has 27 buildings, including 12 houses that draw thousands of visitors each year.
        Mr. McMillen presided over the relocation of many of the 17th- 18th and 19th-century buildings from other parts of the island. He stayed with the project until 1976.
        He was born on Staten Island on March 10, 1906, and began his love affair with old buildings shortly after graduating from Union College in Schenectedy in 1928 with a degree in civil engineering. He got a job photographing old houses on Staten Island and took courses in architecture at Columbia University.
        In the early 1940's, while looking at old houses, he came across one that had been built in 1818, and though it was dilapidated and scheduled to be torn down, he bought it and moved into it with his wife and three children. He then began the long process of restoration.
        He is survived by his wife, Eleanor; two sons, William, of Richmondtown, and Harlow, of Castleton Corners, S.I.; a daughter, Mary McMillen of Emerson Hill, S.I.; a brother, Foster, of Lakeville, Conn.; a sister, Mary Patch of Evanston, Ill., and eight grandchildren.
      