
        Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, the traditionalist prelate whose defiance of Pope John Paul II caused the first schism in the Roman Catholic Church since 1870, died today in Martigny, Switzerland. He was 85 years old.
        Archbishop Lefebvre, a soft-spoken, stubborn Frenchman, was excommunicated in June 1988 for consecrating four bishops to help carry on his battle to return to a Latin Mass and to preserve other practices rejected in the wake of the ecumenical council Vatican II.
        "I prefer to be in the truth without the Pope than to walk a false path with him," he said in explaining his rebellious course.
        Archbishop Lefebvre died in a hospital of complications from the emergency surgery he underwent a week ago for a cancerous growth in his abdomen.
        The Archbishop leaves behind about 300 priests ordained by his order, the Fraternity of St. Pius X, and a following that was estimated by Vatican officials at the time of the schism at 50,000 and 100,000. Church officials say the number has decreased since then as many Catholics have decided to stand behind the Pope rather than follow an excommunicated leader. The Archbishop's supporters say that he has hundreds of thousands of followers and that several million of the estimated 850 million Catholics worldwide sympathize with his teachings.  Schools in Five Countries
        His followers have set up schools and seminaries in Germany, the United States, Latin America, Australia and France, the country where he has the largest following.
        His principal seminary is in Econe in southwestern Switzerland, where the gaunt, white-haired Archbishop carried out the fateful ceremony that created the church's first major split since the Old Catholics rejected the doctrine of papal infallibility declared at a Vatican council 121 years ago.
        The Archbishop spent the last two decades battling changes in the doctrines of the church. For him, it was anathema that the church decided to open a dialogue with Protestants, Muslims and Jews, a move that he said mistakenly lent credibility to other religions. He rejected Vatican II's acceptance of "religious freedom," which he asserted was misguided because it put Catholicism on an equal footing with other faiths.
        In a statement today, the Vatican defended the Pope's decision to excommunicate Archbishop Lefebvre, saying: "The Holy Father hoped until the last moment for a gesture that would put things in order. He showed that he was ready to remove the canonical penalty if there was such a sign."
        The Vatican's statement added that on learning of the Archbishop's death, the Pope said a prayer "entrusting the soul of the deceased to the mercy of God."
        The Rev. Franz Schmidberger, the German designated by Archbishop Lefebvre to succeed him as head of the dissident order, said, "May God reward him for his life entirely devoted to defend the Catholic faith against heresy."
        Marcel Francois Lefebvre (pronounced luh-FEH-vruh) was born in Tourcoing in northeastern France on Nov. 29, 1905, the son of Rene and Gabrielle Lefebvre. His father, an official in a textile company, was a monarchist and a devout Catholic who said daily prayers in Latin. Of his seven brothers and sisters, four others became priests or nuns.
        He attended a seminary in Rome that was headed by a sympathizer with Action Francaise, a far-right anti-Semitic and anti-democratic movement that was condemned by Pope Pius XI. He obtained doctorates in theology and philosophy before being ordained in 1929. He joined a missionary order, the Holy Ghost Fathers, and in 1932 was sent to Gabon, then a French colony. He spent most of the next three decades in Africa, and from 1955 to 1962 he was Archbishop of Dakar, Senegal. He left Senegal after it won independence.
        In a move that chagrined many proponents of change, Pope John XXIII named him to the commission that prepared the Second Vatican Council. The bishops who attended the Council, which met from 1962 to 1965, rejected the traditionalist documents drafted by Archbishop Lefebvre and others, and that was the wedge that began to divide him from the church. Later he declared that "the devil" and "Antichrists" had inspired Vatican II.
        He was especially disheartened with the abandonment of Mass said in Latin and other changes relating to the liturgy, including the placement of the altar so the celebrant faces the congregation. He also rejected Vatican II's affirmation of religious liberty and its abandonment of the church's assertion that it held the only universal truth. Moral Deterioration Seen
        "The church in Africa was respected because it clearly told the truth," Archibishop Lefebvre said. "But Vatican II gave the impression that one truth could be as good as another. That has resulted in a general deterioration of moral values."
        In 1969, he established the Fraternity of St. Pius X to train priests according to his traditional model. He lambasted the modern Mass, calling it a "bastard rite." As a result of his defiance, Pope Paul VI suspended him from his priestly work in 1976. This meant he could no longer celebrate Mass or administer the sacraments.
        But he carried on in his crusade undeterred. He celebrated a Mass before 6,000 people in Lille, near his hometown, saying, "Let us carry on the religion of our fathers."
        In 1978, John Paul II tried to establish a truce with the Archbishop, allowing him to resume his priestly functions. In 1988, the Pope sought to head off the schism by offering to name a traditionalist bishop whom Archbishop Lefebvre would nominate. Pope's Compromise Rejected
        Eventually, the Archbishop rejected the compromise, which would not have obliterated the changes that he so disdained. This led to his consecration of the four bishops, a move that according to Catholic doctrine can be done only with the Pope's approval.
        "It is to show our attachment to the Rome of forever that we perform this ceremony," he said.
        In politics, he was known for extreme right-wing views. He occasionally supported Jean-Marie Le Pen, leader of the right-wing National Front, and often had kind words for Franco of Spain and the Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet. An avowed opponent of the French Revolution, he also supported the restoration of the French monarchy. "Our future is the past," he often said.
        Church officials were uncertain how the Archbishop's death would affect his followers, whom Rome has threatened with excommunication. Jean-Michel Di Falco, spokesman for France's bishops, said, "One can hope that his death will be the occasion of a serious reflection and that perhaps a certain number of his followers are going to recognize that they are on a road that distances themselves from religion."
      