
        Robert J. Widlar, a prolific designer of integrated circuits and a colorful personality in the Silicon Valley, died last Wednesday. He was 53 years old.
        He suffered a heart attack while jogging on a beach in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, where he had lived since 1970, friends said.
        Mr. Widlar was considered a brilliant designer of linear integrated circuits, which are used in consumer electronics devices, scientific instruments and industrial machinery. These silicon chips handle continuously variable analog signals, as opposed to the on-off pulses of digital electronics.
        Mr. Widlar's designs were largely responsible for making National Semiconductor Corporation of Santa Clara, Calif., the leader in linear circuits. More than two dozen products he designed, including amplifiers and voltage regulators, are still in production.
        "Bob Widlar was a Silicon Valley original and a true genius" of integrated circuit design, Charles E. Sporck, president of National Semiconductor, said. "He was the world's first, and, by any margin, greatest linear designer."
        Mr. Widlar joined National Semiconductor in 1966, but quit and moved to Mexico four years later after becoming wealthy from his stock in the concern. He later became a consultant for the company and was still employed in that capacity at the time of his death.
        In 1981 he helped start Linear Technology Corporation, a smaller but similarly successful company.
        Mr. Widlar was also known for his carousing and outrageous pranks. On one occasion, when National Semiconductor tried to save money by cutting its landscaping expenses, Mr. Widlar brought a goat to work in his car to eat the grass in front of the company headquarters. A Carouser's Memorial
        On Monday night friends and colleagues held a memorial for him at a Silicon Valley bar.
        Mr. Widlar graduated from the University of Colorado in 1962. A chapter is devoted to him in "Microcosm," by George Gilder, a book about the electronics industry.
        Mr. Widlar is survived by two brothers, Jim, of Santa Clara, and Tom, of Cincinnati, and a sister, Jane West, of Virginia Beach, Va.
      