
        Clark R. Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer prize-winning reporter, author and syndicated Washington columnist who served briefly as a special counsel to President Richard M. Nixon, died of cancer yesterday at Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington Va. He was 69 years old and lived in Lexington.
        Mr. Mollenhoff, who since 1976 had been a professor of journalism at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, had suffered from cancer for many years and died of a melanoma of the liver, said Evan Atkins, the university's assistant news director.
        Except for a sabbatical in 1960 and nine months as a White House official in 1969 and 1970, Mr. Mollenhoff was an investigative Washington correspondent for Cowles Publications from 1950 to 1978, covering the government and national affairs for The Des Moines Register and Tribune, The Minneapolis Star and Tribune and Look Magazine.
        Mr. Mollenhoff, whose reporting exposed labor rackets, influence-peddling and wrongdoing in government, won the 1958 Pulitzer Prize for national reporting for his inquiries into corrupt labor practices, including those that sent James C. Hoffa, the president of the Teamsters Union, to jail.  Exposed Johnson Aide
        He also won many other awards for his crusading reporting, which exposed influence-peddling by Robert G. Baker, an aide to Lyndon B. Johnson when he was Senate majority leader, and the improper acceptance of gifts by Sherman Adams, an aide to President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        In 1969, Mr. Mollenhoff joined the Nixon White House as a personal investigator for the President, and soon became embroiled in a series of disputes. One uproar arose when Mr. Mollenhoff disclosed that he had been given access to nine income tax returns, which by law are confidential, in making his background checks on people.
        His defense of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr., an unsuccessful Nixon nominee for the Supreme Court, was widely criticized as unduly partisan.
        Mr. Mollenhoff returned to the Cowles newspapers in 1970 and until 1978 he wrote a syndicated column.
        Born on April 16, 1921, in Burnside, Iowa, Clark Raymond Mollenhoff graduated from Webster City Junior College in 1941 and earned a law degree from Drake University in 1944. He joined The Des Moines Register as a reporter in 1941 and, after two years in the Navy, returned to the paper in 1946.
        His first marriage, to Georgia G. Osmundson, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Jane Schurz; one son, C. Raymond Mollenhoff Jr., of Olney, Md., one daughter, Sue Mollenhoff Montgomery, of Regina, Saskatchewan; two brothers, Clair Mollenhoff, of Iowa City, and Francis Mollenhoff, of Waterloo, Iowa, one sister, Mary Margaret Pape, of Dubuque, Iowa; three stepsons, James R. Schurz, of Montrose, Colo., Jay D. Schurz, of Waynesboro, Va., and Robert M. Schurz, of Norfolk; one stepdaughter, Susan Schurz, of Santa Barbara, Calif., four grandchildren and seven stepgrandchildren.
      