
        When Carol Perkins sat down in the New York Times cafeteria last week, she pulled down her lower lip and exposed two big white blisters. "They're not herpes," she announced, which certainly turned a lot of heads. But that is something she expects.
        Ms. Perkins is a model with the Eileen Ford Agency, and her face -- not to mention the rest of her -- is familiar to anyone who shops through the Victoria's Secret catalogue or reads Vogue. Recently, she has been moonlighting at "Penn and Teller: The Refrigerator Tour," playing at the Eugene O'Neill Theater, which is where the blisters come in. Ms. Perkins works with Penn and Teller, the comic magic team, who bill themselves as "a couple of eccentric guys who've learned to do a few cool things," as a fire-eater.
        And if the show's opening act is for the children -- a giant refrigerator is dropped directly on top of the two stars -- then the bit called "Burnin' Luv" is the adults' payoff. Ms. Perkins and Penn Jillette perform a hilarious parody of sex by eating fire, after which Ms. Perkins, wearing an impossibly low-cut dress, strikes a match and lights a cigarette directly from Mr. Jillette's mouth.  An Unmodel-like Model
        That someone whose face is her livelihood should take such risks is the height of perversity. But looks aside, Ms. Perkins seems nothing like most models. During the entire lunch she never once mentioned the size of her pores, or how many glasses of water she drank before noon, and she told her age, 33, without hesitation. "Why not?" she asked. "I look pretty good for 33."
        She said she loved cafeteria food, and had never had a weight problem. And though she skipped the steam table meat, she eagerly ate up a plate of mashed turnips and peas, which she covered in butter, and followed it with a roll, coffee and a cigarette.
        She does dress like a model, perfectly pulled together in a dark turquoise Harris tweed jacket, cashmere sweater, Hermes scarf, corduroy pants and a string of pearls. Then she admitted that she bought the jacket in a thrift shop, on what she called a "junkin' " spree.
        Since she learned to eat fire last fall, Ms. Perkins said, she has been "burnt really bad." She pointed to her chin, which looked fine. But she insistently rubbed off her makeup, until the maroon shadow of a burn finally appeared.  A Well-Timed Ignition
        Isn't this just about the most awful thing that could happen to her
        face?
        Her fortune? Apparently not. "I'm not real fussy about things like breaking a nail or getting a wrinkle." Yes, but isn't this is a little more serious? "I couldn't work when I got burned," she said, "but I had taken those two weeks off anyway for rehearsal. It took a couple of weeks for the big old scab to fall off."
        Mr. Jillette, who is the tall one, with the ponytail, is Ms. Perkins's partner in "Burnin' Luv." He said in a phone interview: "Her chances of being disfigured and landing in the hospital are slim. Eating fire is safer than walking on the street. She got a nickel-sized blister on her chin, that's all."
        Isn't she giving Eileen Ford an ulcer? "Not at all," Ms. Perkins said. "She told me she's never had a model go to Broadway before."'
        Also, Ms. Perkins said, there is no insurance policy for her face. She said she didn't need one. "When you're learning to eat fire you're fearful and respectful," she said. "But I got confident and kind of cocky about it, and I just wasn't paying attention. I'm back on guard again."
        How did she ever get mixed up in all of this? A longtime fan of Penn and Teller, she arranged an introduction through a friend about a year ago. Last fall, when the duo was rehearsing for an NBC television special, Mr. Jillette called her and asked if she could help find a replacement for Isabella Rossellini, for whom he had written the bit, who had just been cast in a movie. They needed someone famous, Ms. Perkins said, to satisfy the network.
        "I suggested Lauren Hutton, who's pretty gutsy, Joan Severance and Carrie Fisher," she said. "I called some girls for him but none came through. Then about a week before the special taped they got into a jam. Penn called me and said: 'We're really on our knees. Can you learn to eat fire so you can show whoever it is we get? You can be the understudy.' And I thought, what a cool thing. I live around the corner from the rehearsal place, so I threw on my jeans and left. I was terrified."
        But she turned out to be a quick study, and when no one better known was willing to risk her face, she got the job. "She was our absolute last choice," said Mr. Jillette. "She really likes fire eating, which I don't. When she was learning we would scream at her not to really get comfortable, just to look comfortable."
        As the act progressed, the two got comfortable with each other as well, and soon found themselves in the gossip columns. What is it like to kiss after eating fire? "What happens is you burp up gasoline," Ms. Perkins said, laughing. "It's pretty gross." How New York Is Unlike Sarasota
        But still exciting for a woman who grew up Sarasota, Fla., where the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus spent its winters and was home to the Ringling Brothers Museum and Clown College. As a child, Ms. Perkins said, she performed in the children's Sailor Circus, along with Emmett Kelly's daughter and a daughter of one of the Flying Wallendas. She specialized in tumbling and riding the unicycle.
        Since she didn't have to run away to join the circus, she graduated from high school a year early and ran away from it, to New York at the age of 16: "It seemed so alive compared to the resort-town feel in Sarasota, which catered to vacation living. I loved the chaos in New York, the subways and the dirt. I hung out with a musician boyfriend and modeled for a minute at Wilhelmina. But I wasn't mentally prepared for it, until a few years later."
        Ms. Perkins says she has a one-year commitment to the Penn and Teller show, which has been extended on Broadway indefinitely. Then, she said, she plans to split her time between New York and Sarasota, where she wants to establish a women's resource center similar to Hope for Housing in New York, which teaches skills to women on welfare, in rehabilitation programs and recently released from prison. She said her family still lives in Sarasota, where her father is a school principal, and her mother is a painter.
        But for now, she is still a model and a fire-eater. At a recent weekend performance full of children, a number of them lined up outside after the show to get the stars' autographs. When Ms. Perkins was spotted near the stage door, a small group of prepubescent boys shyly lined up in front of her, programs in hand. Though she had changed out of her costume, the dress she was wearing was equally low cut. And judging from the looks of rapture on those faces as she bent over to sign the Playbills, the fascination with the falling refrigerator was a thing of the past.
        She's getting a kick out of it, too. "It's a once in a lifetime opportunity," she said. "If I had tried to plot it out this way it couldn't have happened. And it really is the perfect part-time job. Because I eat fire a lot better than I type."
      