
        Coral Lansbury, an author, Victorian scholar and dean of the Graduate School of English at Rutgers University's Camden campus, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia. She was 61 years old.
        She died of cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Lansbury, who had written a number of scholarly literary works, began writing fiction late in her career when her cousin, the actress Angela Lansbury, said to her seven years ago, "Darling, are you going to go on all your life writing those dreary academic books that nobody reads?"
        The result was "Sweet Alice," which E. P. Dutton brought out in 1986 and which Publishers Weekly praised as a "slightly naughty tale of greed, goodness and British breeding." Her second novel, "Ringarra," a Gothic tale, reached readers in 1985, even before "Sweet Alice" appeared. 'Mythic Quality' to Writing
        In quick succession there followed "Felicity" (1987) a farce, and "The Grotto" (1989), whose writing was praised by John Mortimer in The New York Times Book Review for its "energy, good humor and mythic quality." Alfred A. Knopf will publish her fifth novel, "Opium!," next year.
        Ms. Lansbury was born in Melbourne, Australia, in 1929 to British parents who were touring in a production of the musical "Showboat." The family was stranded by the Great Depression and Ms. Lansbury graduated from North Sydney Girls High School, a selective institution, and entered the University of Sydney at age 15.
        A year later her father, who had become a sound-effects man in the country's fledgling radio industry, got her a part in a drama on the air. She worked for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation into the 1960's but as television supplanted radio drama she turned more to academic interests, publishing articles and lecturing widely.
        Ms. Lansbury came to the United States and joined the Rutgers faculty at Camden in 1974. She wrote four books on Anthony Trollope and other Victorian literary figures between 1975 and 1984. She served as president of the Victorian Studies Association and of the Victorian executive committee of the Modern Language Association.
        She is survived by a son, Malcolm Turnbull of Sydney, and two grandchildren.
      