
        Lisa Taylor, director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design from 1969 to 1987, died on Friday in a hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas, said David McFadden, the museum's curator of decorative arts. She was 58 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mr. McFadden said she died of liver cancer.
        The museum's current director, Dianne Pilgrim, said through a spokesman that Mrs. Taylor "had a passionate belief in the importance of design and brought that passion and excitement to the museum."
        The museum, in the former Andrew Carnegie mansion at 2 East 91st Street, is part of the Smithsonian Institution. It closed in 1963 but reopened in 1976, after Mrs. Taylor played a major role in raising funds to install it in the renovated mansion.
        Grace Glueck, The New York Times critic, wrote in 1976, "The museum's far-reaching collection covers 3,000 years of artistic production, but it is also very much in touch with contemporary concerns, such as urban planning and the environment."
        'Wallpaper to Bird Cages'
        What is now the Cooper-Hewitt Museum originated as a part of Cooper Union, which had housed it since 1897. In the 1960's, financial problems led Cooper Union to end its ties with the museum, which by then was what Paul Goldberger, The Times critic, called "one of the world's finest storehouses of objects of design and the decorative arts -- with everything from collections of wallpaper to bird cages."
        In 1969, the secretary of the Smithsonian, S. Dillon Ripley, named her as head of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. In 1972 the Carnegie Corporation donated the mansion, and over the next four years Mrs. Taylor and her staff managed to obtain more than $6 million from private individuals, corporations and foundations.
        It was Mrs. Taylor who had the idea for the annual Museum Mile open house and street fair involving museums along upper Fifth Avenue. It was first held in 1979, and 10 museums participated last year.
        In 1976, Mrs. Taylor said, "I think we'll be a great success, because we have a superb collection and people are becoming more and more aware of how design relates to the quality of life. And besides, there's a feeling of love for us because we've made it."
        Edited Design Series
        Mr. McFadden said Mrs. Taylor retired in 1987 for reasons of health and to work on the final volumes in a series of books she edited. The series, titled "Immovable Objects," comprises six books of essays by various authorities on the impact of design on daily life. The volumes have separate topics ranging from urban open spaces to the subways.
        Mrs. Taylor was born on Jan. 8, 1933, in New York, the daughter of Theo von Bergen-Maier, an architect, and the former Martina Weincerl, a painter.
        She studied at the Corcoran School of Art in Washington and at Georgetown and Johns Hopkins Universities.
        She was on the staff of the President's Fine Arts Commission in Washington from 1958 to 1962 and membership director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington from 1962 to 1966. She then joined the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, where she helped to devise a highly successful Smithsonian educational program before being named to head the Cooper Union Museum.
        She was awarded honorary doctorates by the Parsons School of Design and Cooper Union.
        She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      