
        A. B. Guthrie Jr., a Kentucky journalist who turned to fiction and won a Pulitizer Prize as one of the century's leading Western historical novelists, died yesterday at his home at Choteau, Mont. He was 90 years old.
        Carl D. Brandt, his agent, said he had died of lung failure. He had been in declining health for several months.
        Mr. Guthrie, who won the Pulitzer in 1949 for his novel "The Way West," also wrote the screenplay for the acclaimed 1953 motion picture "Shane." His final book, "A Field Guide to Writing Fiction," was published two weeks ago in New York by HarperCollins. His published works consisted of six novels, a book of essays, a children's book, a book of poems and five mystery novels.
        In his approach to writing about the old West, Mr. Guthrie was markedly different from many of his contemporaries'. There was nothing in his prose evocative of the pulpy approach to Western lore that was then in vogue. Mr. Guthrie said he wanted to avoid writing myths about the West.
        "I have a sense of morality about it," he said. "I want to talk about real people in real times. For every Wyatt Earp or Billy the Kid, there were thousands of people trying to get along." How He Started
        The process by which Mr. Guthrie converted himself to fiction writer began in 1939 when he made a long visit to his mother, who was convalescing in a hospital in Rochester, Minn. He had much time for reading and writing, and his interest in fiction resulted in a first novel called "Murders at Moon Dance," which was published in 1943.
        Mr. Guthrie later called it a "trashy piece of work." But the challenges offered by the novel intrigued him. In 1944-45, when he was studying at Harvard with a Nieman fellowship, he again turned to fiction and took a creative writing course. He wrote part of a novel that would be called "The Big Sky." It received good reviews when it was published in 1947. Lewis Gannett, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, called it a novel that "belongs on the shelf beside the best stories Walter Edmonds and Kenneth Roberts have told of frontier days back East." It was made into a motion picture by Howard Hawks in 1952, starring Kirk Douglas.
        His next book was his Pulitzer Prize winner, "The Way West," which picked up where "The Big Sky" left off, telling the story of the trek of a group of men, women and children from Independence, Mo., to the promised land of Oregon.
        Alfred Bertram Guthrie Jr. was born Jan. 13, 1901, in Bedford, Ind., the son of Alfred B. and June Thomas Guthrie. The elder Guthrie was an educator and country newspaper editor. When Alfred was an infant, the family moved to Choteau, on the eastern slope of the Rockies, where Mr. Guthrie became a high school principal. His son went to school there and worked as a printer's devil at The Choteau Acantha, where his father had been editor.
        Mr. Guthrie attended the University of Washington in 1919 and 1920, then transferred to the University of Montana, where he graduated with honors in 1923. Trouble Finding Work
        Unsuccessful in his efforts to find a newspaper job, he worked briefly over the next few years as a grocery clerk, Census Bureau worker and at a flour and feed mill in Attica, N.Y. After the mill burned, he finally found a newspaper job with The Lexington (Ky.) Leader. In his 21 years with the newspaper, he was a reporter, the city editor and an editorial writer.
        After "The Big Sky" was published, he supported himself by teaching creative writing at the University of Kentucky.
        "Nouns and verbs are the guts of the language," he would tell his students. "Here's where the beginner goes astray. Having fallen short in the use of nouns and verbs, he tries to enforce his prose with adjectives and adverbs and, though he doesn't know it, thereby makes it weaker."
        Mr. Guthrie liked to say that the best Christmas gift he ever got was a dictionary and that some of his fondest memories of growing up in Montana were the arguments he and his family had over the meanings of words.
        In 1952 he left the university to devote himself full time to writing. He worked briefly in Hollywood, creating the scripts for "Shane" in 1953 and for "The Kentuckian" in 1955. The "Shane" script, in particular, won wide praise; the movie starred Alan Ladd in the title role.
        Among the other novels Mr. Guthrie created in later years were "These Thousand Hills" in 1956 and "The Blue Hen's Chick" in 1965. Orville Prescott, reviewing for The New York Times, called it "an engagging, humorous and thoughtful book." Mr. Guthrie also wrote "The Big It," a collection of short stories, which was published in 1960. His work gives much evidence of his love for nature, and Mr. Guthrie once said that despite his love of language and of fiction, "if I had to do it over, I would have been a naturalist."
        Mr. Guthrie was married to Harriet Larson in 1931 and by her he had two children, Alfred B. 3d, of Choteau, and Helen Miller of Butte, Mont., who survive him. Harriet Guthrie died in the early 1960's, and he married Carol B. Luthin in 1969. She survives him, as do two stepchildren, Herbert Luthin, of Clarion, Pa., and Amy Sakariassen, of Bismarck, N.D.
      