
        Hundreds of mourners led by Vice President Dan Quayle and members of the Cabinet paid tribute to Lee Atwater today, praising the skill that took him to the height of national political power until cancer cut short his life last week at the age of 40.
        Speaking to the 800 people who filled Trinity Cathedral, across the street from the South Carolina Statehouse, Mr. Quayle said: "Today the world spins in a new direction. Empires fall. Humanity resurges. Hope is renewed. A limitless future of decency and progress at last seems possible. Lee Atwater was a vital part in the making of all that history."
        He also joked that Mr. Atwater was probably in heaven now, launching an absentee voter registration drive. "I can still see Lee sitting right there critiquing everything I'm going to say," Mr. Qualye said. Start in Thurmond's Office
        It was in the office of Senator Strom Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina, that Mr. Atwater began a political career more than two decades ago that would culminate with his his appointment as chairman of the Republican National Committee.
        Today, during the 90-minute Episcopal service, Senator Thurmond described Mr. Atwater as "energetic, aggressive, persistent, hard-driving and courteous."
        "He was a kingmaker," he said.
        Mr. Atwater, who managed George Bush's 1988 Presidential victory by employing what many Democrats considered negative tactics, apologized last fall to Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent, Michael S. Dukakis, and to several South Carolina politicians whom he had worked against in the past.
        Harry S. Dent, a special counsel to President Richard M. Nixon who later became a preacher, said, "Lee Atwater's message to America and the world is repentance precedes being born again and entering the kingdom of God."
        He said Mr. Atwater apologized and won over his former adversaries with kindness.
        Besides the Vice President, the Washington delegation included the White House Chief of Staff, John H. Sununu, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, Attorney General Dick Thornburg and Clayton Yeutter, the chairman of the Republican National Committee who replaced Mr. Atwater last year. President Bush sent his son George Jr. The President is expected to attend a memorial service in Washington on Thursday.
        The most personal message came from Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, a friend of Mr. Atwater for nearly 20 years. Mr. Atwater managed several of his campaigns.
        "This last year was the most important campaign he ever ran," the Governor said. "He won that campaign. Lee won peace with himself, peace with his fellow man and peace with his God.
        "I loved him,. I'll miss him, but I am comforted by knowing if anyone in heaven needs a political adviser, they have the best, a bundle of perpetual motion."
        Mr. Atwater's wife, Sally, and their three daughters sat in the front row of the church in downtown Columbia, five miles from his boyhood home in Forest Acres, S.C. Mr. Atwater was buried in Greenlawn Memorial Park beside a small lake after a brief ceremony.
      