
        Yosef Tekoah, one of Israel's foremost diplomats, its representative at the United Nations for seven years, and chancellor of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, died Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 65 years old.
        He had also served as Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Brazil.
        The university said that Mr. Tekoah died of a heart attack. He had been living in Manhattan for the last year to work on development projects. A university spokesman said he recently traveled to the Soviet Union to arrange exchanges of students and scholars with Ben-Gurion University. Rebuttal to P.L.O.
        Mr. Tekoah, who was called Joe by his friends, served as Israel's chief delegate to the United Nations from 1968 to 1975, when he became president of Ben-Gurion University. He was a veteran of sharp debates on the Palestinian question, highlighted by his rebuttal to a speech delivered in the General Assembly in November 1974 by Yasir Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
        Mr. Arafat, declaring that he had brought both an olive branch and a guerrilla gun, called for a common Palestinian state that would include Muslims, Jews and Christians. Mr. Tekoah denounced the proposal, saying it would assure the destruction of Israel and its replacement by an Arab state. He said the P.L.O. had shown its true colors "by the only currency it uses -- the blood of innocent civilians."
        Reached in Washington on Sunday night, Zalman Shoval, Israel's Ambassador to the United States, said of Mr. Tekoah, "He was certainly one of our most brilliant and forceful spokesmen at the U.N. and will serve as an example for many of our ambassadors in the same capacity."  A Plain Speaker
        Mr. Shoval, a colleague since the 1950's, said Mr. Tekoah belied the stereotype of a diplomat who avoids plain language and confrontations whenever possible. His style "could be forceful, even aggressive," he said.
        The Israeli Ambassador said Mr. Tekoah spoke out on the issue of Soviet Jewry when he served as envoy in Moscow in the early 1960's, a time when that was a "risky thing" to do there.
        Mr. Shoval said Mr. Tekoah had been "more hawkish than dovish," and had close relationships with Israel's first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion, and with Moshe Dayan, the military strategist who held a series of posts in Labor Cabinets.
        Biographical references indicate that Mr. Tekoah was born in Byelorussia on March 4, 1925. He received a law degree at the University l'Aurore in Shanghai, and a master's degree in international relations at Harvard in 1948, a subject he later taught there.
        Fluent in several languages, including Hebrew, English, Russian and French, he joined the Foreign Ministry in 1949 as a legal adviser.
        His first crucial assignment came in 1953, when he was named Director of Armistice Affairs and the head of the Israeli delegation to the Armistice Commissions with Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. He served for five years.  An Envoy to Enemies
        In those early years, not long after the war that attended the birth of modern Israel, gunfire often marred the cease-fire. Mr. Tekoah was Israel's chief contact with its hostile neighbors, principally Jordan.
        He arrived at the United Nations in 1958 as deputy representative, then served as acting chief delegate before moving to Brazil in 1962. The three-year assignment in Moscow followed, and he served for two years as Assistant Director General of the Israeli Foreign Ministry before returning to the United Nations in 1968.
        Ben-Gurion University of the Negev was about six years old when Mr. Tekoah announced that he was leaving New York to take over as president. The university is known for its studies on the desert, particularly the illnesses spawned there.
        Mr. Tekoah was elected chancellor of Ben-Gurion in 1981. At the time of his death, he was working with its New York operations on Madison Avenue. He is the author of a memoir, "In the Face of the Nations," published by Simon & Schuster in 1976.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Weidenfeld; a daughter, Michel; two sons, Gilad and Yoram, all of Jerusalem, and three grandchildren. Also surviving are a brother in Florida and a sister in Brazil.
      