
        Carmine Coppola, a conductor and Oscar-winning composer for his son's film "The Godfather Part II," died yesterday morning at Northridge (Calif.) Hospital Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Coppola also wrote the widely acclaimed score for the restored four-and-a-half-hour version of Abel Gance's epic "Napoleon," as well as scores for Francis Ford Coppola's "Godfather" and "Apocalypse Now." He shared the 1975 Oscar for "Godfather II" with Nino Rota.
        His many other scores included those for the films "Gardens of Stone" and "The Black Stallion."
        The remarkably innovative silent "Napoleon" is a sweeping account of the Emperor's life from boyhood to his first big victories, when Mr. Gance ran out of money. It was resuscitated just over 10 years ago from damaged prints found around the world and was presented by Mr. Coppola's son.
        It had originally been scored by Artur Honegger, but except for a few bars, that music was lost. Mr. Coppola said the notion of composing it anew "started from a seed I planted in Francis's head many years ago."
        He went to work in August 1980 and had to deliver the next January. "It was a mountainous task," he reported that year. "I knew for every inch of that film, edited to four and a half from six hours, I had to supply music down to the end."
        In fact, the music accompanies virtually the entire film, played by a symphony orchestra. Mr. Coppola himself conducted a performance in Radio Music Hall in 1981. Reviewers noted that his score was a key to the interest the historic movie was stirring.
        "The score that Mr. Coppola has composed for 'Napoleon' may just be the ticket for popular acceptance," commented Vincent Canby, chief movie critic for The New York Times.  A Juilliard Flutist
        Mr. Coppola was born in Italy, and graduated from the Juilliard School in 1933. He joined the music staff of a Hartford radio station before becoming the first flutist of Radio City Music Hall. He worked with the Detroit Symphony, the NBC Symphony, for which Toscanini hired him as first flutist, Merrick Productions and the Los Angeles Civic Opera.
        A resident of Long Island from the 1940's to 60's, he was conducting touring companies of Broadway shows in the mid-60's when his son "sent for the family," including his father, an elder brother, August, as a writer, and his sister, the actress Talia Shire.
        Carmine Coppola collaborated on the his son's film version of the musical "Finian's Rainbow" and remained in Los Angeles thereafter.
        He is survived by his wife, Italia, and his two sons and daughter.
      