
        Richard Bolling, who as a Representative from Missouri taught liberal Democrats to use rules and caucuses to take control of the House, died here Sunday at the age of 74.
        Mr. Bolling apparently had a heart attack, said Representative Alan Wheat of Kansas City, who succeeded the 17-term Missouri Congressman after he retired in 1982.
        Mr. Bolling held a formal position of power, as chairman of the House Rules Committee, for only his last four years in the House. He had lost votes for leadership positions in 1962 and 1976. His sharp tongue, and especially his barely disguised scorn for House Speaker John W. McCormack, were generally credited with preventing his advancement.
        As a lieutenant of Speaker Sam Rayburn, he was put on the Rules Committee in 1955, after only six years in the House, and came to wield vast influence. In that post he fought the power of the committee's very conservative chairman, Representative Howard W. Smith of Virginia, and Mr. Smith's Republican allies. 'The Liberals' Rayburn'
        A longtime friend, Representative Morris K. Udall, Democrat of Arizona, once called Mr. Bolling "the liberals' Rayburn," meaning he had his mentor's instinct for effectiveness as an insider with a more liberal agenda.
        Mr. Bolling worked with Mr. Rayburn to outflank Mr. Smith and win House passage of the 1957 civil rights bill, the first since Reconstruction. Besides using the rules, Mr. Bolling used outside pressure from civil rights and labor organizations to insure a House majority.
        He played a comparable role against Mr. Smith's opposition to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the measure that strengthened voting requirements, outlawed discrimination, required Federal funds to be withheld from segregated school systems, established the Justice Department's community relations service and broadened the mandate of the Commission on Civil Rights. A Critic Within the House
        Mr. Bolling was one of the earliest and most vocal of the inside critics of the way the House did business. In his book, "House Out of Order," published by E.P. Dutton in 1965, he called for modifications of the seniority system so that House Democrats could elect committee chairmen, and for open committee meetings. With changes like these, he wrote, "I believe it is possible to restore representative Government to the people of the United States."
        Limits on seniority and open meetings were among the major changes in House rules enacted in the early 1970's, with such younger Democratic representatives as Mr. Udall, Donald Fraser of Minnesota, David R. Obey of Wisconsin and Thomas S. Foley of Washington out in front and Mr. Bolling offering advice and help.  'Legislative Craftsman'
        Today Mr. Foley, who advanced two years ago to the Speaker's role that Mr. Bolling once sought, called the Congressman "a legislative craftsman of unsurpassed skill, the wisest of counselors."
        Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, said he had lost "a great friend and mentor." He said Mr. Bolling "was for civil rights when drinking fountains and lunch counters were segregated, he was for Congressional reform when power in the House was used to stifling new ideas."
        Another ally, Mr. Obey, recalled today that Mr. Bolling had not only been frank with his foes, but had also been "brutally honest with himself," acknowledging that his bluntness cost him voters in leadership races. And, he said, Mr. Bolling had the knack, with his friends, "to disabuse them of their own myths." For instance, Mr. Obey said, Mr. Bolling demanded of opponents of the Vietnam War to say what they were in favor of instead of what they opposed.
        Besides the Rules Committee, Mr. Bolling served on the Joint Economic Committee. He complained in 1981 that President Ronald Reagan was trying to impose a "tyranny" on Congress through the budget process, which Mr. Bolling had helped write into law in the previous decade. That year, Mr. Bolling announced that he would retire to devote his time to writing. Son of a Surgeon
        Mr. Bolling was born in New York City May 17, 1916, the son of a surgeon from Alabama. The family moved to Huntsville, Ala., when he was in a teen-ager, and he earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of the South in Sewanee, Tenn.
        He had begun work on a doctorate at Vanderbilt University before entering the Army in April 1941. He served four years in the Pacific and won the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star before leaving the service in 1946 as a lieutenant colonel.
        He found a job after the war at the University of Kansas City, where he advised veterans, and was Midwest director of Americans for Democratic Action and national vice chairman of the American Veterans Committee. With the Democratic Pendergast machine in decline, he seized the opportunity to run for the House and defeated the Republican incumbent, Albert L. Reeves Jr., on the coattails of President Harry S. Truman, who swept Missouri.
        He is survived by his wife, Nona; a daughter, Andrea Bolling; and two stepsons, Jimmy and John Akin, all of Washington. A memorial service will be held at 4 P.M. Wednesday in Statuary Hall of the Capitol, and at 1 P.M. Friday at All Souls Unitarian Church in Kansas City.
        Correction:  April 24, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about former Representative Richard Bolling of Missouri misidentified a survivor. Jimmy Akin is his stepdaughter, not his stepson.
      