
        John Ethelbert Leslie, a lawyer, accountant and former chairman and chief executive of Bache & Company, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        He died of cancer, his wife said.
        Mr. Leslie was head of Bache & Company, now known as Prudential Securities Inc., at a time when it was the nation's second largest securities-industry firm, second only to Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith. He was named chairman in 1969 in a management reorganization that ended a yearlong committee system of management, whereby four senior managers were responsible for the firm's operations.
        In the early 1970's he steered Bache through times of roller-coaster profits and losses and there were rumors that the company, with over $180 million in annual revenues, would go under. He trimmed the staff, sharply reduced spending, imposed a $15 surcharge on brokerage commissions and sold its stock to the public.  Diplomacy and Law
        He also moved to expand the business by acquiring Halsey, Stuart & Company, a Chicago-based underwriting firm, and moved the company into selling insurance and adapting to block trading of securities. In 1977, the company merged with another brokerage firm, Shields Model Roland, but in June 1981 it was acquired by the Prudential Insurance Company of America.
        Born in Vienna in 1910, Mr. Leslie earned a law degree in 1932 from the University of Vienna. He also studied diplomacy and was secretary to judges of the Federal courts in Austria before practicing law there from 1936 to 1938.
        He then emigrated to the United States, earned a degree in business at Columbia University, and went to work as an auditor for Arthur Andersen & Company. He also studied accounting at night, developed an expertise in tax consulting and in 1946 joined R. G. Rankin & Company, another accounting firm.
        In 1955, at the invitation of Harold Bache, he joined the securities firm and established its legal, audit, tax and insurance departments. He also set up an internal department to monitor the firm's compliance with security-industry regulations. He served in a variety of top management positions at Bache, including as chairman of the policy committee from 1968 to 1969, chief executive from 1970 to 1977 and chairman until 1982, when he retired.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Miriam Paul Emmet, whom he married in 1986.
        Correction:  May 1, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary last Wednesday about John E. Leslie, former chief executive of Bache & Company, omitted aspects of his career. A native of Vienna, he was an honorary consul general of Austria in New York, a former president of the United States Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the founder of the American Austrian Foundation.
      