
        Floyd B. McKissick, an early leader of the civil rights movement who was named a state district judge in North Carolina last June, died Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 69 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, said his son, Floyd Jr., his partner in the law firm of McKissick & McKissick in Durham.
        A maverick among civil rights leaders, Mr. McKissick served as director of the Congress of Racial Equality in 1966 and 1967, became a prominent backer of President Richard M. Nixon's successful re-election effort in 1972 and spent several years in the late 1970's in a vain attempt to build a North Carolina town, Soul City, run by blacks.
        For most of his career, Mr. McKissick was a lawyer with a practice in criminal defense and personal injury cases. He dated his devotion to the cause of equal rights for blacks to a day in 1935 when, as a 13-year-old Boy Scout helping to direct traffic during a roller-skating tournament in his native Asheville, N.C., he was knocked to the ground by a white police officer.
        The son of the head bellman at the Vanderbilt Hotel in Asheville, he carted ice on a homemade wagon, delivered newspapers and shined shoes to help support his family. He was drafted into the Army in World War II and served as a sergeant in Europe. After the war he studied at Morehouse College, received a bachelor's degree from North Carolina College and in 1951 applied for admission to the all-white University of North Carolina Law School at Chapel Hill. Champion of Civil Rights
        He was barred. But Thurgood Marshall, then a lawyer for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and later a Unitd Supreme Court Justice, took his case and won an order from a Federal appeals court to admit Mr. McKissick to the law school.
        Mr. McKissick became the N.A.A.C.P.'s North Carolina youth chairman and began working with CORE, an interracial offshoot of the pacifist Fellowship of Reconciliation that was founded in 1942, dedicated to applying the nonviolence principles of Mohandas K. Gandhi to the struggle for civil rights.
        In 1947 Mr. McKissick joined James Farmer, a founder of CORE, in an integrated bus ride through the South. They often encountered hostility, which Mr. McKissick called "my baptism in nonviolence."
        As a lawyer Mr. McKissick took on a number of desegregation cases, defending demonstrators who sat in white sections of lunch counters and theaters in Durham and successfully filing suits to enable each of his children to enter all-white schools. A Change in CORE's Ideology
        In January 1966 Mr. McKissick, who had been the unpaid national chairman of CORE, succeeded Mr. Farmer as its director. Moving away from the biracial identity of CORE, and at the same time refusing to support the call of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. for nonviolent civil disobedience, Mr. McKissick sought to shift CORE's focus to bringing political and economic power to blacks.
        In September 1967, after 18 months at the helm at CORE, he took a leave to work on a Ford Foundation project to help blacks attain positions of responsibility in cities in which they were moving toward a majority in population.
        Before the 1972 Presidential election, Mr. McKissick angered many blacks by switching from the Democratic Party to the Republicans and supporting Mr. Nixon's re-election campaign. He argued that blacks were ill-advised to put all their hopes in the Democratic Party. The Plight of Soul City
        Beginning in 1974, Mr. McKissick devoted much of his energy to building Soul City, a town controlled by blacks but open to all, 60 miles northeast of Raleigh in rural North Carolina.
        Envisioned as a home for more than 45,000 people by the year 2000, Soul City proved to be economically unviable.By mid-1979, in spite of $19 million in Federal aid and $8 million more from state and local sources, Soul City housed only 135 people, all but 30 of them black, and half of them living in mobile homes. When government money was cut off, much of Soul City became a ghost town.
        Last June Gov. James G. Martin of North Carolina, a Republican, appointed Mr. McKissick to serve as a judge in the Ninth Judicial District.
        In addition to his son, Mr. McKissick is survived by his wife, the former Evelyn Williams, whom he married in 1942; three daughters, Jocelyn, of Durham, Andree Julian of Chevy Chase, Md., and Charmaine, of Greensboro, N.C.; three sisters, Geraldine Hines of Philadelphia and Frances McKissick and Jean McNeil, both of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      