
        Louis Joxe, a veteran public servant and senior Gaullist official credited with negotiating Algeria's independence from France, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Joxe's place in history was assured by the success of the talks at Evian-les-Bains in 1962 and the republic's resolution of a military putsch and colonist revolt in strife-torn Algeria. His decisions in France's next great crisis, the student uprising and labor unrest of 1968, drove him from the Ministry of Justice.
        A former history teacher, Mr. Joxe turned to government service and diplomacy in 1932 as a member of the French delegation to the League of Nations. Mobilized during World War II, he fled the Germans by going in 1940 to Algeria, and joined the French resistance movement there.
        He taught for some time in Algiers, but the Vichy Government, suspecting his allegiance to General de Gaulle's Free French, banished him to the countryside. Later Algiers became the North African headquarters of the Allied forces, and for a time was the capital of the Free French government.  Rapid Rise in Government
        Toward the end of the war, he served as Secretary General of the Committee for National Liberation. After the German retreat and de Gaulle's triumphant entry into Paris, Mr. Joxe's rise in government quickened.
        He handled cultural affairs in the Foreign Ministry before being sent to Moscow as Ambassador in 1952. He held the Ambassador's post in Bonn before returning to Paris as Secretary General in the Foreign Office in 1956.
        In 1959, with de Gaulle presiding over France's Fifth Republic, Mr. Joxe became Secretary General in the Prime Minister's office.
        Mr. Joxe was known as a witty and sometimes wily negotiator who could escape into vagueness when that seemed the preferable approach to a problem. Silver-haired and ruddy-faced, he had a reputation as a raconteur, and the ability to show good humor as well as stiff spine  Challenge of '68 Protests
        All his skills were put to the test when de Gaulle called on him to fill the hottest seat on his Cabinet in 1960, Minister of State in charge of Algerian affairs. The Muslim majority of Algeria had been in a sustained rebellion against France since the mid-1950's, while French colonists demanded full integration with the mother country and parts of the army challenged the political leadership.
        But the Evian accords, signed in the fashionable French spa in March 1962, provided for an end to the fighting and the establishment of an independent Algerian state. Mr. Joxe then served as Minister of State for Administrative Reform until 1967, when he took over the Ministry of Justice.
        He served as acting chief of Government in the absence of Georges Pompidou, then the Prime Minister. This was the case when the student uprising began in 1968. But it was mainly his role as Justice Minister that cost him his job when the disturbances at universities and factories got out of hand.
        Mr. Joxe retired as a member of the Constitutional Council in 1989.
        Among his survivors is a son, Pierre Joxe, France's current Defense Minister, a Socialist.
      