
        Bernard Fensterwald Jr., a former Government lawyer who later defended James Earl Ray and James W. McCord Jr., a Watergate burglar, died Tuesday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 69 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his wife, Patricia, said.
        Mr. Fensterwald was with the State Department for six years before he joined the Senate staff. He later was counsel to several Senate subcommittees, including the one on practices and procedures.
        In 1965 he orchestrated a highly publicized inquiry into allegations of illegal wiretapping by Government investigative agencies. Accusations were later made that the inquiry had been undertaken in an effort to keep James R. Hoffa, the head of the teamsters' union, out of jail, but Mr. Fensterwald denied the accusations, saying in a 1967 interview that the investigation had stayed "religiously clear" of the Hoffa case.
        Born Aug. 2, 1921, into a prominent Nashville family, Mr. Fensterwald graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1942. He served in the Navy in World War II and received a law degree from Harvard in 1949.
        He joined the State Department in 1950, leaving in 1956 to become a speech writer in the vice-presidential campaign of Senator Estes Kefauver, Democrat of Tennessee. In 1959 he returned to the Senate staff and investigated price fixing and the drug industry.  Interest in Three Killings
        In 1970, after he had left government service and returned to private practice, he took over the defense of Mr. Ray, who was convicted of killing the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and headed the defense team through a series of unsuccessful appeals.
        In 1973 he took over as defense counsel for Mr. McCord after his conviction for spying on the Democratic national headquarters in the Watergate complex but before his sentencing.
        Mr. McCord, director of security for President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 re-election campaign, later wrote a letter to Judge John J. Sirica implicating White House and Republican campaign officials in the burglary and with trying to cover up the incident. The letter intensified an investigation into the burglary that eventually led to President Nixon's resignation.
        Since 1968 Mr. Fensterwald had been deeply involved in investigating the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy and Dr. King. He created a Committee to Investigate the Assassinations and established the Assassination Archives and Research Center in Washington as a repository of materials on the three killings.
        He was a senior partner in the firm Fensterwald & Alcorn in Alexandria.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Bernard 3d of Reston, Va.; three stepchildren, Patrick Marlette of Sacramento, Calif., David Marlette of Falls Church, Va., and Margaret Alice Cox of Taipei, Taiwan; a sister, Ann Eisenstein of Nashville, and six grandchildren.
      