
        Joseph S. Lord 3d, a senior judge of the Federal District Court in Philadelphia who was known for his decisions on rights issues, died on Tuesday at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 78 years old and lived in the Germantown section of Philadelphia.
        He died of cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Judge Lord was perhaps best known for a landmark decision that invalidated the will of Stephen Girard, a merchant and financier of the American Revolution who founded Girard College in 1831 as a free boarding school for "poor, white, fatherless boys."
        In a case brought by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Judge Lord ruled in 1967 that Girard could no longer refuse admission to poor orphan boys "on the sole ground that they are not white." Today the student body is predominantly black and one-third female. Appointment to Bench
        Judge Lord was born in Germantown and received bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was captain of the boxing team in 1933. He served as a Navy lieutenant commander in the Pacific in World War II and in 1946 he became a partner in the Philadelphia law firm of Richter, Lord & Levy.
        After brief service as the United States Attorney in Philadelphia, he was named to the Federal bench by President John F. Kennedy in 1961. In 29 years as a district judge, he made many rulings that were unpopular with government officials.
        In 1970, Judge Lord allowed anti-Vietnam War groups to use John F. Kennedy Stadium in Philadelphia for a rock concert; in 1971 he overturned a state law that cut off loans or scholarships to students for "moral turpitude" and in 1972 he ruled that a national wiretap law was illegal.
        An avid golfer, Judge Lord teed off in a game with John Cardinal Krol, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Philadephia, not long after issuing a decision overturning a law long sought by the Cardinal that would have used state money to reimburse parents of pupils in parochial and other nonpublic schools for tuition.
        When the judge asked what Cardinal Krol's handicap was, the Cardinal shot back: "You are."
        Judge Lord is survived by his wife, the former Helen Kaltenbacher; a daughter, Mary Frances Halton of Plymouth Meeting, Pa.; two stepsons, Lawrence Kaltenbacher of Glen Mills, Pa., and John Kaltenbacher of Blue Bell, Pa.; four brothers, Judge Charles Lord of Common Pleas Court in Philadelphia; Edwin, of Littleton, Colo., William, of Fort Wayne, Ind., and John, of Strafford, Pa., and seven grandchildren.
      