
        Karl Klasen, president of West Germany's central bank in the 1970's and a leading figure in world banking, died on Monday in Hamburg, Germany, where he lived. He was 81 years old.
        His death was disclosed in Frankfurt by the Bundesbank, which he ran from 1970 to 1977. The cause of his death was not given.
        Dr. Klasen, a traditionally conservative German banker, was known for his staunch defense of the mark in world currency markets. After retiring from the Bundesbank, he was a member of the supervisory board of the Deutsche Bank A.G., West Germany's largest commercial bank and the post-World War II successor to the Hamburg bank where Dr. Klasen began his career in 1935. 'The Crown of My Career'
        When he resigned from a top post in the Deutsche Bank in 1970 to join the Bundesbank as watchdog of West Germany's currency, taking a salary cut of more than two-thirds and giving up directorships of 10 corporations, he said he regarded his entry into public service as "the crown of my career."
        He was a native of Hamburg, the son of a low-paid shipping company employee. As a young law student in the early 1930's Dr. Klasen joined the Social Democratic party because, he said, he wanted "to do something against Hitler's rise." The Nazis retaliated when they came to power by refusing to let him become a judge, so he joined the Deutsche Bank in Hamburg as a legal consultant, a job he held until the end of the war.
        After the war, Dr. Klasen devoted his energy to Hamburg's reconstruction and to rebuilding West Germany's merchant fleet. In 1952 he rejoined the Deutsche Bank as a board member and in 1964 he was named co-head of the bank with Franz H. Ullrich.
        He was at the helm of the Bundesbank during the years after the collapse of the system of fixed exchange rates for the world's currencies that had prevailed since the international monetary conference at Bretton Woods, N.H., in the waning days of World War II.
        In 1972, when the system was breaking down and European countries began to let their curriences float in the world market, Dr. Klasen faced down an old friend, Karl Schiller, then West Germany's Finance Minister, and persuaded the Cabinet to defend the mark against foreign speculators. Mr. Schiller was forced to resign after the defeat.
        In his remaining years as head of the Bundesbank, Dr. Klasen guided the mark to the strong position in international dealings that it has retained until today.
        Dr. Klasen was married and had two daughters and a son.
      