
        Don Siegel, a director of tough, cynical and forthright action-adventure films whose taut plots centered on individualistic loners, died on Saturday at his home in Nipomo, Calif. He was 78 years old.
        He died of cancer, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Siegel worked his way up at Warner Brothers, from assistant film librarian and assistant cutter to top shaper of speed-action montages and a second-unit director of battle sequences.
        At 33, he directed two shorts -- "Star in the Night" and "Hitler Lives," which won two Academy Awards, and he began directing such low-budget but pace-setting features as "Riot in Cell Block 11" in 1954 and the 1956 science-fiction classic "Invasion of the Body Snatchers."
        By the late 1950's, Mr. Siegel was discovered by the young critics and future directors of the French New Wave, who hailed him as a gifted auteur. The praise generated film festivals in his honor in foreign capitals and on campuses, where he became a hero.  With Clint Eastwood
        Siegel films increasingly focused on macho independents with ambiguous morals, operating within or outside the law, and the ideal actor to portray them was the steely-eyed laconic Clint Eastwood, Mr. Siegel's avenging police officer in "Coogan's Bluff" (1968) and "Dirty Harry" (1971).
        "Dirty Harry," a box-office bonanza about a detective stalking a psychopathic sniper, outraged many liberals who deplored the protagonist as a racist extremist who created his own laws.
        In a 1972 interview in The New York Times, Mr. Siegel said he welcomed the furor "because if you make a film that's safe, you're in trouble." "I'm a liberal," he continued. "I lean to the left, and I don't make political movies. I was telling the story of a hard-nosed cop and a dangerous killer. What my liberal friends did not grasp was that the cop is just as evil in his way as the sniper."  'I Resent Authority'
        "I'm a rebel," Mr. Siegel told the interviewer. "That's why the young kids like my films. I've been fired from almost every place I've ever worked. I resent authority."
        Other Siegel and Eastwood collaborations were "Two Mules for Sister Sara" (1970), "The Beguiled" (1971) and "Escape From Alcatraz"(1979).
        Earlier, Mr. Siegel's brisk, sardonic style and hostile world were unexpectedly but compellingly projected with Mickey Rooney's psychotic gangster in "Baby Face Nelson" (1957), Elvis Presley's vengeful Indian in "Flaming Star" (1960) and Steve McQueen's vicious soldier in "Hell Is for Heroes" (1962).  Studying in England
        Donald Siegel was born in Chicago on Oct. 26, 1912. His father was a mandolin virtuoso. The youth studied mostly in England, attending Jesus College at Cambridge and the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts.
        He began his career as an actor, performed cameo roles in some of his own films, directed 34 features and produced 7.
        His marriages to the actresses Viveca Lindfors and Doe Avedon ended in divorce. His survivors include his wife, Carol; a son, Kristoffer Siegel Tabori, an actor and director in Los Angeles, and four other children: Nowell, Anne, Katherine and Jack.
      