
        Richard Bolling, a Missouri Democrat who served 17 terms in Congress until his retirement in 1982, died today at age 74.
        Mr. Bolling apparently died of a heart attack and was found in his home in Washington by his wife, said Representative Alan Wheat who succeeded Mr. Bolling in the House seat from Kansas City.
        Mr. Bolling was elected to Congress for the first time in 1948 and re-elected for 16 consecutive terms. Headed Rules Committee
        From 1978 to 1982 he was chairman of the House Rules Committee, which decides which legislation will be debated on the House floor and how it can be amended.
        After retiring from Congress, Mr. Bolling was a visiting professor of political science at the University of Missouri in Kansas City and a professor of politics at Boston College in Massachusetts.
        Mr. Bolling was born in New York City and grew up in Huntsville, Ala.
        "He was the most brilliant legislator in this century who never became speaker," Rep. David Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, once said of Mr. Bolling, who was twice rebuffed in attempts to become majority leader, a position that frequently is a stepping stone to the Speaker's job. Tactician and Parliamentarian
        Mr. Bolling was acknowledged as a supreme tactician and parliamentarian. He pointed to his key roll in winning passage in 1957 of the first civil rights legislation since Reconstruction as the accomplishment that gave him most pride.
        But he was known for an often acerbic style and a reluctance to suffer the foibles of colleagues that did not make him the most popular man in Congress.
        "Dick treaded on a lot of toes he could have avoided if he wanted to," former House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, a longtime friend, said at a 1982 dinner honoring Mr. Bolling's retirement.
        Mr. Bolling wrote three books while in Congress: "House Out of Order" in 1965 and "Power in the House" in 1968. The third, "America's Competitive Edge: How to Get Our Country Moving Again," was written with the investment banker John Bowles in 1982.
        He was a Phi Beta Kappa student of English and classical French literature at the University of the South in Sewanee, Tenn., and was named to Sports Illustrated's 25th anniversary all-America football team.
        He suffered a heart attack in 1977 and underwent quadruple-bypass heart surgery in 1981 and similar surgery in 1982.
      