
        Qin Benli, a legendary Chinese newspaper editor whose dismissal in early 1989 gave additional impetus to the Tiananmen democracy movement, died early this morning in Shanghai, a close associate said. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Qin died of stomach cancer, the associate said.
        The Government has not announced the death, perhaps for fear of stimulating tributes or mourning gestures by university students. Mr. Qin, the first victim of the 1989 crackdown, is still remembered by students and young journalists as a national hero, even though he had been under virtual house arrest and had not been mentioned of in the Chinese news media for nearly two years.
        Mr. Qin died two years to the day after Hu Yaobang, the ousted Communist Party leader. It was student mourning of Mr. Hu's death that launched the Tiananmen democracy movement. Target of Hard-Liners
        Mr. Qin's newspaper, the World Economic Herald, had long been at -- and sometimes beyond -- the limit of what was allowable in China, and hard-liners had made several efforts to oust him. It was Mr. Qin's defiance of propaganda authorities by printing a round-table discussion among liberal intellectuals of Mr. Hu that led to the newspaper's closing, at the end of April 1989.
        The Herald, a weekly published in Shanghai on a shoestring budget, was viewed by many intellectuals as the best and most daring newspaper in the country. Word of Mr. Qin's dismissal reached Beijing almost immediately, and soon his reinstatement and the return of the newspaper became an important demand of student protesters.
        Born in Zhejiang Province in August 1917, Mr. Qin was a bear of a man who retained a rustic charm and a rural accent that was sometimes difficult to understand. He joined the Communist Party and rose to become deputy editor of Wen Hui Bao, a leading Shanghai daily, in 1956. But in 1957 he was denounced as a rightist and banished from journalism for more than two decades. Paper Launched in 1980
        In 1980, backed by high officials who wanted to promote economic and political change, he launched the Herald as an "unofficial newspaper." It attracted some of the nation's best talent and became virtually required reading among intellectuals around the country. It was nearly closed down in a crackdown in early 1987, and plans for an English edition were then scrapped.
        Jiang Zemin, then the Communist Party leader in Shanghai and now the national party general secretary, was the official who ordered Mr. Qin's dismissal in 1989. After the crackdown in June 1989, Mr. Qin was effectively put under house arrest and three of his journalists were detained. One, Zhang Weiguo, a lawyer and former Beijing correspondent, was released only in February.
        Mr. Qin, whose condition had been diagnosed as terminal cancer in late 1989, had suffered from steadily failing health, but colleagues said that he enjoyed a partial recovery and that his spirits soared after Mr. Zhang was released and was allowed to visit him.
        Apparently fearful that it would be blamed for Mr. Qin's death, the Chinese leadership gave Mr. Qin the best treatment possible, in a private ward of one of Shanghai's best hospitals.
        When in the hospital, Mr. Qin was generally allowed to see his wife and some of his former associates. However, he was not allowed to see foreigners, and even long-time friends sometimes had difficulty gaining access to him, particularly if they wanted to visit in groups.
      