
        G. Russell Clark, who as superintendent of banking under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller paved the way for New York City banks to expand into the suburbs, died on Wednesday at Broward General Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale.
        He died of cardiac arrest, said his son Douglas, of Sparta, N.J.
        During Mr. Clark's tenure as superintendent of banking, from March 1959 to June 1961, the Omnibus Banking Law was passed, ending a three-year freeze on the organization and expansion of bank holding companies. The State Supreme Court invalidated the 1960 version of the law but the Legislature re-enacted the measure.
        Before stepping down, Mr. Clark approved the merger of the Hanover Bank into the Manufacturers Trust Company, the New York Trust Company into the Chemical Corn Exchange Bank and of J. P. Morgan & Company and the Guaranty Trust Company of New York. But he rejected as monopolistic an application by the Banker's Trust Company to acquire the County Trust Company of White Plains. Quit School at 15
        After leaving office, he became chairman of the Commercial Bank of North America, later known as the Bank of North America and still later as the National Bank of North America in New York City. In 1967, he became vice president of the C.I.T. Financial Corporation. He retired in 1972.
        Mr. Clark was born on March 24, 1904, in Kearny, N.J., quit school when he was 15 and became an office boy with the New York Clearing House. By 1937, he was an assistant manager and was named executive vice president in 1948.
        He helped establish many banking programs, including a centralized air mail delivery for clearing checks of member banks. He also served as executive manager of the American Banking Association and as vice-president and treasurer of the New York State Chamber of Commerce. He was a member of many professional committees and was a director of several institutions.
        He is also survived by his wife, Mary-Louise; two other sons, Gordon, of Green Pond, N.J., and Russell, of Vero Beach, Fla.; one daughter, Jane A. Seeley, of Crystal Lake, Ill.; two sisters, Mildred Goldenbaum of Chatham, N.J., and Minerva Grant of West Caldwell, N.J.; 11 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      