
        Mongolia's former Stalinist leader, Yumzhagiin Tsedenbal, died Saturday in Moscow, where he lived in exile after more than three decades of iron rule, the Foreign Ministry said today. He was 74 years old.
        A ministry official said Mr. Tsedenbal, a shepherd's son who was a teacher at Ulan Bator financial college before entering government service at the age of 23, had died of an illness that he did not specify.
        Mr. Tsedenbal ran Mongolia first as Prime Minister in 1952. In 1958 he combined the premiership with the post of Communist Party leader and 15 years later became head of state as well.
        He was overthrown in 1984. He and his Russian-born wife, Anastasiya Filatova, spent the last seven years in Moscow as his health failed.
        In March 1990 he was expelled from the Communist Party and accused of gross misrule. A month later he and his wife were stripped of all their state titles.
        Mongolians called Mr. Tsedenbal "the khan of stagnation" for his disastrous economic policies. His rule was marked by almost total obedience to Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet leader. He was widely reviled for ordering purges of Communist Party leaders whom he saw as threats to his power.
        In his heyday, Mr. Tsedenbal was fond of wearing 11 rows of medals and an army marshal's star studded with diamonds.
        His personality cult withered, and in 1988 the Mongolian Government officially blamed him for "the major shortcomings and omissions of the last 40 years." Communist Monopoly Ended
        Mongolia ended the Communist Party's monopoly on power last year, opening up the political system to opposition parties and calling free elections. It has since tried to distance itself from the Soviet Union, its powerful neighbor and ally.
        Ordinary Mongolians said they resented Mr. Tsedenbal for allowing Soviet Army troops to use this vast land to confront the Chinese Army along the southern border.
        Mongolia's state prosecutor last year began to investigate Mr. Tsedenbal for political purges and executions during his rule. But Mongolian doctors who visited Moscow this year said he was unfit to stand trial because of chronic amnesia.
        Popular resentment is focused less on Mr. Tsedenbal than his wife, who survives him.
        She was seen as the power behind the throne. The local press recently printed accounts of how she insulted Politburo members and imposed her will on Mongolia's politics.
      