
        Roman Jasinski, one of the stars of the cosmopolitan Ballets Russes companies that flourished from the 1930's to the 50's and a leader in American regional ballet, died yesterday morning at St. John's Medical Center in Tulsa, Okla. He was 83 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said Connie Cronley, general manager of the Tulsa Ballet Theater, which Mr. Jasinski founded and directed with his wife, Moscelyne Larkin.
        A Polish-born dancer known for his good looks, elegance and stylistic sensitivity, Mr. Jasinski worked with some of this century's greatest choreographers, among them George Balanchine, Michel Fokine, Leonide Massine and Bronislava Nijinska. He and his wife, an American Indian ballerina from Oklahoma, founded the Tulsa troupe after he retired as a performer, and they built it into a major Southwestern company.
        At its New York debut in 1983, Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times that "the young dancers looked extremely well schooled, testifying to the high artistic standards of their directors." In addition to offering new works by Mr. Jasinski and guest choreographers, the troupe featured revivals of important but rarely seen ballets.
        The company made history in Tulsa in 1987 by offering the first United States performance of Balanchine's "Mozart Violin Concerto," which had received its premiere in Buenos Aires in 1942; the Oklahoma company brought it to New York in 1988. The company's autumn season in Tulsa in 1990 included Fokine's "Paganini," a major work by the choreographer of "Les Sylphides" and "Petrouchka" that has not been presented in New York since the 1946-47 season.
        Mr. Jasinski, who was born in Warsaw in 1907, studied at the Warsaw Opera Ballet School. He was hired in 1928 by the Ida Rubinstein Ballet, the Parisian troupe for which Nijinska was choreographer, and he joined Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes in 1932.
        He left it the next year for Les Ballets 1933, Balanchine's short-lived experimental company in Paris and London. Later that year, he made his American debut with a small touring group headed by the dancer Serge Lifar and then returned to the de Basil company, remaining with it until 1947. The Ballets Russes spent much of World War II in South America, and he married Miss Larkin, one of his fellow dancers, in Buenos Aires on Christmas Eve in 1943.
        From 1948 to 1950 Mr. Jasinski appeared with the New York-based Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, leaving it in 1950 to tour with several small groups, including one starring the Russian ballerina Alexandra Danilova.
        He and Miss Larkin founded the school and company in Tulsa in 1956. A charming conversationalist who never lost his Polish accent, Mr. Jasinski struck people offstage as a courtly Old World gentleman. But he was also a determined company builder who guided Tulsa Ballet Theater until it was seen this year from coast to coast by more than 100,000 people.
        Mr. Jasinski's choreographic works ranged from the abstract "Convolutions" to "The Bamboo Princess," which was based on a Japanese fairy tale.
        He is survived by his wife and a son, Roman L. Jasinski, a dancer and ballet master who next season will succeed his parents as the director of Tulsa Ballet Theater.
      