
        Seymour Freidin, a longtime foreign correspondent and author who reported from Eastern Europe during the cold war, died on Friday in Charlottesville, Va., where he lived in retirement. He was 73 years old.
        He died of complications from a stroke, said a spokesman for the Hearst Corporation, from which he retired in 1989 as executive assistant to William Randolph Hearst Jr., the organization's editor in chief.
        Mr. Freidin spent much of his career with The New York Herald-Tribune, starting in 1936 when he graduated from Columbia College. As a war correspondent in Europe in 1945 he was the first American reporter to enter Berlin with Soviet troops.
        Remaining in Europe for The Herald-Tribune after the war, he covered the changes that swept the countries behind the Iron Curtain. He left the newspaper briefly to write for Colliers and Look magazines and to write a syndicated column for The New York Post. In Budapest in 1956
        He was in Budapest in 1956 when Soviet forces crushed the Hungarian rebellion. Back at The Herald-Tribune, he rose to become executive foreign editor. When the newspaper ceased publication in 1966 Mr. Freidin became a freelance writer, covering American political campaigns as well as foreign affairs. He joined Hearst in 1972 as a foreign correspondent in London.
        In 1973, Mr. Freidin acknowledged that he had been paid by the Republican Party to relay information about the Democratic Presidential campaigns of 1968 and 1972. In 1977 he conceded that he had had a "relationship" with the Central Intelligence Agency while reporting from Europe.
        He wrote three books, including "The Forgotten People," published in 1962, which dealt with the people of eastern Europe, and "The Sense of the Senate" (1971).
        Mr. Freidin is survived by his wife, the former Lillian Stiva Berger, whom he married in Paris in 1950; two sons, Joshua, of Lyons, France, and Nicholas, of Huntington, W. Va., and two grandsons.
      