
        Sol C. Chaikin, president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union from 1975 until 1986 and more recently acting head of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on Manhattan's West Side, died on Monday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, Queens. He was 73 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Chaikin spent virtually his entire career with the garment workers. He joined the union as an organizer in 1940, the year he graduated from Brooklyn Law School. He rose through several union posts to become its first "second generation" president; unlike David Dubinsky and Dubinsky's successor, Louis Stulberg, he had not gone through the struggles of the garment workers' formative years in the early part of the century.
        When Mr. Chaikin (pronounced CHAY-kin) became president in 1975, the union had 430,000 members but was fighting debilitating inroads from nonunion manufacturing shops, mostly in the South, and a growing wave of garment imports from low-wage factories in Asia, South America and Europe.
        As president, he sought to raise public awareness of the loss of jobs to foreign competition. He also led a fight to find and eliminate sweatshops in New York's Chinatown and elsewhere that employed recent immigrants, many of them illegal, at substandard wages.
        And in the early 1980's he was prominent in a battle against legalization of "homework" -- contracting by needle-trades employers to women working at home, a practice that trade-union leaders considered a means of evadingchild-labor and minimum-wage laws.
        But Mr, Chaikin could not stem a decline in the ranks of the garment workers' union, which by 1986, the year he retired, had shrunk to 220,000. Today the union has 175,000 members.
        Governor Mario M. Cuomo praised Mr. Chaikin yesterday for "tirelessly advocating inclusion of all people in the common struggle for decency and fairness."
        "He inspired many, including myself, to focus on dreams instead of dilemmas and on opportunities instead of obstacles," Mr. Cuomo said.
        Sol Chick Chaikin -- he acquired the middle name early in life and objected to putting it in quotation marks -- was a native New Yorker who graduated from City College and Brooklyn Law School. In World War II, he served in the Air Force in Southeast Asia.
        After the war Mr. Chaikin returned to the garment workers, where he had earlier been an organizer in Fall River, Mass., and a business agent in Boston and Lowell, Mass. An energetic man with curly hair and a chunky build, he proved himself an able negotiator who could gain major concessions from employers even when bargaining from a weak position.
        In 1955, he was put in charge of the union's organizing efforts in Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas and Oklahoma. In 1959, he became assistant director of the Northeast Department, the union's largest. In 1965 he was elected an international vice president and in 1973, general secretary and treasurer.
        When Mr. Stulberg retired as president in 1975 Mr. Chaikin was named to fill the unexpired term. In 1977 he was elected to the first of his own three terms. He also served as a vice president and member of the executive council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Helped Plan Javits Center
        As head of the principal labor union in New York's fashion industry, which attracts many business and other visitors to New York, he helped to plan the Javits Convention Center and became chairman of its operating corporation in the mid-1980's. In 1989 he was named acting president, serving until last December when Fabian G. Palomino was chosen to succeed him.
        Mr. Chaikin served on A.F.L.-C.I.O. delegations to Egypt, Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Portugal and Spain. He represented the American labor movement at labor summits in London in 1977 and Tokyo in 1979.
        He was the first chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s American Council of Education, aimed at improving relations between the labor movement and the academic com munity.
        He was a trustee of Brandeis University and chairman of the overseers of its Florence Heller Graduate School for Advanced Studies in Social Welfare. He was also a trustee of the Fashion Institute of Technology and the Long Island Jewish Medical Center.
        Mr. Chaikin is survived by his wife, the former Rosalind Bryon, whom he married in 1940; three sons, Robert, of Cresskill, N.J., and Eric and David, both of Great Neck; a daughter, Karen, of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
      