
        Nettie S. Horch, an arts patron and co-founder of the Master Institute of United Arts in New York City, died at the Humana-Biscayne Hospital in North Miami on Monday. She was 94 years old and lived in Hallandale, Fla.
        She died of bronchitis, her daughter, Oriole Farb Feshbach, said.
        The Master Institute, which began as a music school with a collection of Old Master art works, was founded by Mrs. Horch in 1922 with her husband, Louis. Its purpose was to help bring people together through the arts.
        In 1928 the Horches incorporated quarters for the Institute in a 29-story residential skyscraper they built at Riverside Drive and 103d Street. Their aim was to provide an environment of art and culture for apartment dwellers, and they developed the concept that income from the apartments would support the art activities of the Institute. The building contained a 300-seat theater, a non-profit school of fine arts, studio apartments for musicians and dancers, and the Riverside Museum, a small, vanguard institution that became known for showing work that differed from the prevailing currents in the art world.  Equality in Acquisitions
        Mrs. Horch became the director of the museum, which not only housed the couple's collection of Tibetan, American, and American Indian art, but mounted many early shows by artists who were later to become well-known, like Louise Nevelson. The museumdevoted a number of shows to the work of women, and under Mrs. Horch's direction, presented in 1939 the first exhibition by the Abstract American Artists, whose work ran against the social realist trend of the time. The museum also gave shows to the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors and the National Association of Women Artists. In 1940 it mounted one of the earliest exhibitions of work by Puerto Rican artists.
        As fine arts chairman of the National Council of Women of the United States, from 1937 to 1954, Mrs. Horch was interested in fostering the work of women artists, and mounted a series of group shows devoted to women of various nationalities, among them Japanese, Canadian and Norwegian.
        In 1971, after Mrs. Horch and her husband moved to Florida, the museum was closed, and its holdings became the Louis and Nettie Horch Collection at Brandeis University. Mr. Horch died in 1979.
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Leonia, N.J. and Amherst, Mass., Mrs. Horch is survived by a brother, Nathan Stone of Lake Worth, Fla., four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      