
        Bernard Ozer, a merchandising executive and one of the most colorful figures on Seventh Avenue, died Sunday night at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart disease after a long illness, his doctor said.
        A professional trend spotter who specialized in taking fashions from the street and making them profitable, Mr. Ozer was a vice president of fashion merchandising and marketing at Associated Merchandising Corporation from 1985 to April 1991. He scoured the world, from the cafes of St. Tropez, France, to the fashion souks of London's Chelsea and downtown Manhattan, looking for new styles that could be translated for mainstream American stores.
        Among the retailers that relied on his buying recommendations were Bloomingdale's and Abraham & Straus in New York; Filene's in Boston; Rich's in Atlanta and Dayton's in Minneapolis. Once a week, his thoughts were presented in Ozerview, a newsletter the company distributed nationally.
        He was also a character in his own right. A large, jovial man, he was a bon vivant who knew the best places to dine in London, Paris, Milan, and perhaps a dozen other cities. He was also an inspired, if somewhat offbeat, dresser: His taste in hats, which he usually wore, ran to felt and feathered; his taste in ties, usually worn over a patchwork shirt, ran to the outrageous.
        Though much of his career was spent speaking to retail executives, he also encouraged many young designers and taught courses at the Fashion Institute of Technology, Parsons School of Design, the University of Alabama and Kent State University.
        "He gave me incredible words of wisdom right after my first successful show," said Isaac Mizrahi, the designer. "He was real but he always looked extra fabulous, whether it was in all white or a gangster suit or one of his wild hats."
        Mr. Ozer, who was born in the Bronx, began his retail career at Ohrbach's as a trainee. He soon became a buyer of teen-age clothing, spotting the quick, perishable fashion ideas that bubble up from the street and beach but often end up influencing all of fashion. He joined Associated Merchandising in 1961.
        Mr. Ozer was credited with discovering the cheap plastic sandals, on beaches in Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, that became the best-selling "jellies" in the United States.  Punkers, Bikers, Voguers
        He was one of the first to understand the importance of the London punk look, and stunned retail executives by bringing New York City bicycle messengers to merchandise meetings. Years later, skin-tight bike shorts were part of the urban uniform. More recently, he brought a group of voguers, dancers who mimic the stylized movements of runway models, to a meeting of bemused fashion executives.
        "I do make mistakes," he once said. "But I switch gears so fast that it doesn't cost anything."
        As a force in the so-called junior market, as the younger fashions are known, he was referred to as "the world's oldest junior." But Mr. Ozer followed all areas of fashion, from couture and ready-to-wear clothing to home furnishings. His special talent was in making business sense out of the sometimes unkempt, expressive world of fashion.
        In April, he became president of Ozerview, a fashion consulting concern that was working on the image and merchandising of Pierre Balmain, the Paris fashion house.
        He is survived by a brother, Abraham; an aunt, Bessie Buchalter, and two nieces, Alison Ozer-Adams and Stephanie Ozer-Buesser.
      