
        Samuel B. Payne, a former president of the investment banking firm Morgan Stanley, died on Sunday at the Franklin Medical Center in Greenfield, Mass. He was 84 years old and lived in Shelburne, Mass.
        He died of cancer, the company said.
        Mr. Payne joined Morgan Stanley in 1944, became a partner in 1947 and was named its first president when the firm was incorporated in 1970. He retired in 1972 but remained associated as an advisory director until his death.
        In 1962, Mr. Payne, then head of Morgan Stanley's corporate finance department, took a leave of absence to become chairman of the J. I. Case Company, a Wisconsin farm-equipment manufacturer and longtime client that was in financial difficulty. Over three years Mr. Payne established a new senior management and restructured J. I. Case's finances.
        In 1969, Mr. Payne led Morgan Stanley into real-estate financing when the firm became a joint owner of Brooks, Harvey & Company, one of the country's largest mortgage banking concerns. At a time when Wall Street was still moving gingerly into real-estate investment, the joint venture of Morgan Stanley and Brooks, Harvey was the first of its kind in the country.  Farm in Massachusetts
        Mr. Payne was born in Greenfield, Mass., and was a graduate of Princeton. He was with the Guaranty Company of New York, Blyth & Company and J. P. Morgan & Company before going to Morgan Stanley.
        After he retired, Mr. Payne, whose areas of expertise at Morgan Stanley included financing the railroad industry, served for six years as a director of the United States Railway Association. He was a trustee of the Boys Club of New York, the Collegiate School and the Unitarian Church of All Souls.
        In 1942, Mr. Payne purchased a farm in Shelburne in northwestern Massachusetts that he restored as a breeding farm for Angus cattle. He also engaged in tree farming.
        Mr. Payne's first wife, the former Jeanette Hooker, died in 1977. He is survived by his second wife, the former Dee Appley; three sons, Samuel Jr., of Ferrum, Va., John, of Princeton, N.J., and Herbert, of Manhattan; a daughter, Caroline Kotonias-Payne of Arlington, Mass.; a sister, Helen Ray of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      