
        Paul E. Klopsteg, a scientist, administrator and inventor who helped organize the National Science Foundation and was president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, died Sunday at his home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was 101 years old.
        From 1921 to 1955 Dr. Klopsteg was associated with the Central Scientific Company in Chicago, first as manager of manufacturing and later as president. He joined the faculty of Northwestern University in 1944 but remained as a director of Central Scientific until 1955.
        He was an adviser to the dean of the Northwestern Technological Institute and directed research and graduate programs there until his retirement in 1954. He then served as associate director of the National Science Foundation.
        In the mid-1940's Dr. Klopsteg helped form the committee on prosthetic devices at the National Academy of Sciences, and served as chairman of the committee for 11 years. He was also chairman of the academy's committee on atmospheric sciences, and was a member of the personnel review committee of the Atomic Energy Commission. He was a director of the American Association for the Advancement of Science for 10 years before serving as president in 1959.
        Dr. Klopsteg held more than 50 patents for instruments used in scientific research and teaching and for prosthetic devices.
        Paul Ernest Klopsteg was born in Henderson, Ill., on May 30, 1889. He was educated in public schools and worked his way through the University of Minnesota as a printer. He earned his doctorate in physics from the university in 1916.
        In World War II he was chief of the physics division of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. His wartime service won him a Presidential citation for merit in 1948.
        Dr. Klopsteg was an expert on archery and on the design of bows and arrows, and was a former chairman of the National Archery Association. He donated a collection of rare books on archery to the University of Oklahoma, and a collection of bows and arrows to the Smithsonian Institution.
        He was a founder and former president of the American Association of Physics Teachers and was chief policy officer for the American Institute of Physics.
        Dr. Klopsteg is survived by two daughters, Marie K. Graffis of Northfield, Ill., and Ruth Drake Reed of Seal Beach, Calif., five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      