
        Chaim Gross, a master wood sculptor and teacher of his centuries-old art form, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack, his daughter, Mimi, said.
        With hammer and chisel and exotic hardwoods, Mr. Gross created exuberant human forms that began winning him wide recognition in the 1930's. He was best known for his jugglers, tumblers, dancers, mothers playing with children and other happy, lively figures.
        His works, exhibited in 75 museums across the United States and in Israel, employed more than 80 exotic hardwoods. He was also worked in marble and bronze.
        He was born on March 17, 1904, in Wolow, a small Carpathian Mountain village that is now part of Poland. His childhood memories were of his father's lumber mill and the sight of peasants carving figures and toys from wood.
        In the spring of 1921, he followed his brother, Naftoli, a Yiddish-language poet, to the United States. He took a job selling fruits and vegetables during the day, and at night he attended classes at the Educational Alliance Art School in Manhattan, where his talent for sculpture was recognized and encouraged.  He also studied for four years at the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design.
        Mr. Gross held his first one-man show in a Greenwich Village gallery in 1932. Although he occasionally sold a statue or water color, he did not begin to support himself by his art until 1933, when he joined the Depression-bred New York Public Works of Art Project.
        He taught for 40 years at the New School of Social Research and for 68 years at the Educational Alliance Art School, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year. His Favorite Material
        His favorite wood, his daughter said, was lignum vitae, a South American wood of extreme hardness.
        "He loved the tonality of the wood, its darker inner color coming through to the outer lighter color." she said.
        In recent years, Mr. Gross was planning a museum of his own work and that of his contemporaries, as well as works that he had collected throughout his lifetime.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Renee; a son, Yehudi, of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      