
        Nicholas Dante, who won a Pulitzer Prize and a Tony Award as a co-author of "A Chorus Line," the longest-running show in Broadway history, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of AIDS, said David Lawson, a friend.
        Mr. Dante, whose real name was Conrado Morales, started his career as a dancer, appearing in the choruses of shows including "Applause," on television shows and in nightclubs.
        His experiences became one of the prominent stories in "A Chorus Line," a musical directed and choreographed by Michael Bennett, in which chorus dancers auditioning for a show talk about their lives, dreams and fears. A Story of Isolation
        Mr. Dante wrote "A Chorus Line" with James Kirkwood, based on tapes of dancers' real-life stories. His own story -- about growing up poor in New York City and feeling scorned and lonely because of his homosexuality -- was told by Sammy Williams, who won a Tony Award as best supporting actor for his portrayal of the character, Paul.
        The show, with music by Marvin Hamlisch, was produced by Joseph Papp for the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1975 and then moved to the Shubert Theater, where it had 6,137 performances before closing in April 1990.
        By then, three of the show's five creators had died. Edward Kleban, the lyricist, died in 1987 and Mr. Kirkwood in 1989, both of cancer. Mr. Bennett, who had AIDS, died of lymphoma in 1987. '90 Percent True'
        "It's the first thing I ever wrote," Mr. Dante said when the show opened at the Shubert. "What you saw onstage is 90 percent true. It's our life stories. I'm 33, and I've been dancing all my life. Now I hope I can be a writer."
        Mr. Dante later wrote an unproduced screenplay, "Fake Lady," from Paul's story in "A Chorus Line." He also wrote the book for "Jolson Tonight," a musical that toured the country in the early 1980's. At his death, he was working on a new play, "A Suite Letting Go."
        Surviving are his mother, Mary Morales; a nephew, Victor Mercado, and a niece, Genevieve Correa, all of Manhattan.
        A memorial service is scheduled for June 4, at a time to be announced, at the Public/Newman Theater, 425 Lafayette Street.
      