
        Frank N. Ikard, a former Congressman from Texas who headed the American Petroleum Institute in the 1960's and 70's, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 78 years old.
        His wife, Jayne, said he died of cardiac arrest.
        Mr. Ikard (pronounced EYE-card), a Democrat who served five terms in the House of Representatives, left Congress in 1961 to become chief spokesman for the oil industry as executive vice president of the petroleum institute. Two years later he was made president of the organization, a post he held until he retired in 1979.
        In October 1973, when Arab oil-producing countries embargoed oil exports to the United States after the outbreak of the Arab-Israeli war, precipitating a worldwide energy shortage, Mr. Ikard led the oil industry's defense against charges that it had contrived the shortage to raise prices. The embargo was lifted in March 1974.
        He frequently testified before Congress on energy issues and stepped up the lobbying efforts of the institute, which is regarded as one of the more effective lobbying groups for industry in Washington. An Influential Texas Lawmaker
        Mr. Ikard was reared in the rough-and-tumble of Texas politics and at one time was one of the state's more powerful lawmakers in a group that included Lyndon B. Johnson, Sam Rayburn and Lloyd Bentsen.
        Mr. Ikard was a native of Henrietta, near Wichita Falls in north central Texas. He received a law degree from the University of Texas and practiced in Wichita Falls before serving in the Army in World War II.
        After the war he was a state judge for five years, and then won a special election to the House of Representatives in 1951. He worked closely with fellow Texas Democrats to build a strong power base.
        After retiring from the petroleum institute Mr. Ikard practiced law in Washington. He served on a number of governmental advisory councils. Last year he became chairman of the Institutional Communications Company, a new entrant in the fiber-optics field.
        Mr. Ikard's first wife, the former Jean Hunter, died in 1970. Besides his wife, the former Jayne Brumley, he is survived by two sons by his first wife, Frank Ikard Jr. and William Ikard, both of Austin, Tex; a stepson, Bryan Brumley, who is Moscow bureau chief for The Associated Press, and seven grandchildren.
      