
        James L. Reinsch, former chairman of the Cox Broadcasting Corporation, who advised four Presidents on radio and broadcasting, died Thursday at Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore. He was 82 years old and lived in Marietta, Ga.
        Mr. Reinsch died of heart failure, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        Mr. Reinsch (pronounced wrench) spent his entire career with the Cox organiztion, based in Atlanta, from 1939, when he joined it, until he retired in 1973. He was also chief executive of WSB Radio in Atlanta, which he was instrumental in starting in 1948.
        Over the years he gave behind-the-scenes advice to the four Democratic Presidents: Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. In 1952 and 1956 he advised Adlai E. Stevenson in the Illinois Democrat's unsuccessful Presidential campaigns.
        In 1944 Mr. Reinsch advised President Roosevelt on his well-remembered radio speech, when a sarcastic President told the nation that the Republicans had attacked not only his family, but also his dog, Fala. Helped Churchill With Speech
        Mr. Reinsch helped Winston Churchill with his radio speech from Missouri in March 1946, in which the British statesman coined the phrase "Iron Curtain" in describing the barrier between the Western democracies and the Soviet bloc.
        Debonair and unflappable in appearance, Mr. Reinsch was a bare-knuckles political fighter. In 1960 he helped Mr. Kennedy win the fight for the Presidency in a hard-fought battle against Richard M. Nixon.
        Knowing that Mr. Nixon had injured a knee when he struck it on a car door, Mr. Reinsch suggested that the two candidates stand for the first of several hourlong debates between the candidates. To Mr. Reinsch's surprise, the Nixon forces agreed.
        He then pressed the Columbia Broadcasting System producer to get plenty of reaction shots of Mr. Nixon. There were 11 in all, in which Mr. Nixon appeared uncomfortable, shifting from one foot to the other, perspiring and wiping his brow. In contrast, the nine reaction shots of Mr. Kennedy showed the Democratic candidate relaxed and at ease.
        Mr. Kennedy's performance in the debates helped to change the course of politics, placing new emphasis on the use of television in campaigning. Early Work at Conventions
        As early as 1944 President Roosevelt enlisted Mr. Reinsch to supervise the radio operations at the Democratic National Convention. He directed radio and television at the party's conventions through 1956, when an upheaval in the Democratic Party's staff put him in charge of the entire convention with just six weeks' notice. His firm hand and grasp of moment-by-moment details led to his being named executive director of the Democratic conventions in 1960 and 1964.
        Mr. Reinsch had a flair for short-order work. When President Roosevelt died in April 1945, Mr. Reinsch was called in by President Truman as stopgap Presidential press secretray for two weeks, on the strength of his radio counsel.
        In 1960 he came up with a convention rostrum that was described "as architecturally ramified as a Mayan sacrificial altar, with almost enough wires and gadgets to put it into orbit." The gadgets included a control console from which he could communicate with everyone from the janitor to ships at sea; an elevator platform to make all speakers equally tall, lighting to diminish the shadow from speakers' faces and special lectern air-conditioning. The technique was made even more complex in subsequent conventions.
        Mr. Reinsch never accepted a permanent job in government, electing to return after conventions and campaigns to his job as head of Cox broadcasting operations.
        He is survived by a son, James L. Jr. of West Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Penelope Bohn of Atlanta; a brother, Robert L., and a sister, Mildred Cameron, both of Tempe, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      