
        Fred Russell Eggan, a leading anthropologist who was a professor at the University of Chicago specializing in the Hopi Indians and the indigenous people of the Philippines, died Tuesday at his home in Sante Fe, N.M. He was 84 years old.
        He died of heart failure, a spokesman for the university said.
        "Fred Eggan was a central figure of American anthropology across at least two generations," said Robert McC. Adams, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
        Dr. Eggan (pronounced EGG-an), who in 1962 was named the Harold H. Swift Distinguished Service Professor at the university, was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and was a past president of the American Anthropological Association.
        His interest in the Hopi Indians began at a summer field school in the Southwest in 1932 while he was working for his doctorate, which he received in 1933.
        He joined the University of Chicago faculty in 1935 after studying cultural change among indigenous groups in the northern Philippines. He was named a professor in 1948 and served twice as department chairman. He retired in 1974.
        In Chicago in World War II he served as chief of research for the Philippine Government in exile and established a school at the University of Chicago to teach United States service personnel about the cultures of the Far East.
        His study of the Philippine people led to the creation of a Philippine studies program at the university.
        Dr. Eggan lectured at universities around the world. He wrote several books, including "Social Organization of the Western Pueblos" and "The American Indian." He was also editor of "The Social Anthropology of North American Tribes."
        His honors included the Viking Fund medal, an anthropological foundation award, in 1957.
        He was born Sept, 12, 1906, in Seattle.
        In retirement he continued his work on Indians of the Southwest and became a champion of their claims against the United States Government. He helped win settlements for the Hopi and Zuni Indians.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan, and a stepson, Daniel Rosenfels of Manhattan.
      