
        C. McKim Norton, former president of the Regional Plan Association, a private nonprofit group working for the development and conservation of the New York metropolitan region, died early yesterday at the Brookhaven Nursing Center in Lexington, Mass. He was 84 years old.
        He died of leukemia, his family said. He was a resident of North Haven, Me., and lived in Princeton, N.J., from 1950 to 1989.
        The association, based in Manhattan, devises long-range public policies on economic development, transportation, land use and other issues. It then recommends the policies to leaders in the public and private sectors in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
        Mr. Norton headed the association's staff from 1940 to 1943 and from 1945 until his retirement in 1969.  Helped Develop Parks
        Sigurd Grava, professor of urban planning at Columbia University, said Mr. Norton made a "major contribution in assisting the development of parks" in the region.
        Professor Grava, who heads Columbia's urban planning program, said Mr. Norton had been instrumental in bringing about the creation of the Gateway National Recreation Area. The 26,000-acre patchwork of sites in Queens, Staten Island, Brooklyn and New Jersey was established by Congress in 1972 with the intention that it become the first urban national park in the United States. Critics say it has suffered from skimpy Federal support over the years.
        On parks and other questions, Mr. Norton was something of a gadfly. In 1960 he warned, "The New York metropolitan region is falling behind in its response to mounting pressures for more recreational space."
        Admirers of Mr. Norton in the planning world have said that he was ahead of his time in prompting debate on problems in such basic spheres as garbage disposal and sewers. Advocate of Mass Transit
        Under his direction, the association led a campaign to revitalize the region's deteriorating public transportation system. The association's current president, Richard T. Anderson, said the campaign played a substantial role in the creation of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in 1968.
        With Mr. Norton in charge, the association also worked out a comprehensive regional plan and issued it in the 1960's. It was a package of many detailed recommendations that emphasized the importance of rebuilding older cities and of encouraging satellite commercial and business centers.
        Though the plan had no legal force, Professor Grava said it was influential in focusing attention on those and other questions.  Father Was a Planner
        Charles McKim Norton was born Jan. 6, 1907, in Lake Forest, Ill., the son of Charles Dyer Norton and the former Katherine McKim Garrison. The elder Mr. Norton played an important role in drawing up an earlier regional plan for the New York City area.
        The younger Mr. Norton graduated from the Groton School, Harvard College, in 1929, and Harvard Law School. He worked as a lawyer and banker in New York and as a lawyer for the National Resources Planning Board in Washington before joining the association, which he left for Army service in World War II.
        Over the years he was also a member of the National Capital Planning Commission in Washington, vice president of the American Institute of Planners, vice president of the Middlesex-Somerset-Mercer Regional Study Council in New Jersey and chairman of the Borough Planning Board in Princeton.
        He was awarded the gold medal of the American Society of Planning Officials and the Distinguished Service Award of the American Institute of Planners.
        Mr. Norton was married in 1939 to Martha Chipman Hutcheson, a pianist. She died in 1988.
        He is survived by a daughter, Lucia Norton Woodruff of Austin, Tex., a violinist with the Austin Symphony Orchestra; a son, John C. Norton of Watertown, Mass., an art teacher and painter; a brother, Garrison Norton of Washington; a sister, Lucia Norton Valentine of Mercer County, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
      