
        Edward Rosenthal, a former vice chairman of Warner Communications, now Time Warner Inc., died on Thursday at his home in White Plains. He was 87 years old.
        He died of acute leukemia, said his son, Peter.
        Mr. Rosenthal was vice chairman of Warner Communications from 1972 to 1983, when he was named director emeritus. Earlier, he had been an executive in major funeral, car rental and parking businesses.
        Mr. Rosenthal, a 1924 graduate of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, was first a licensed funeral director. He was president and chief operating officer of Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan, a funeral chapel founded by his parents in 1897.
        With members of his family, he expanded the company into the largest funeral service group in the United States. The group acquired the Frank E. Campbell Chapel in 1948, Universal Funeral chapels in 1955 and the Walter B. Cooke chapels in 1957.
        From 1962 to 1966 he was vice chairman of Kinney Services, which included funeral homes and parking and car-rental businesses.
        His involvement with Kinney began as an outgrowth of the funeral business. In 1959 he was approached by someone seeking to rent him limosines for funerals. Instead, he and a few associates formed Abbey-Rent-a-Car, and in a stock deal in 1961, became allied with Kinney Parking Systems to offer his customers free parking at Kinney lots.
        A year later, the companies merged, forming Kinney Services. After acquiring other companies, Kinney acquired Warner-7 Arts and moved into cable television, movies and the entertainment industry. Warner Communications was born in 1972 and merged with Time Inc. to become Time Warner Inc.
        In World War II, Mr. Rosenthal served with the Navy's construction battalion in Okinawa.
        He was also a founder of the Fairview-Greenburgh Day Care and Community Center and helped finance its construction through personal contributions and by raising money.
        In addition to his son, Peter, of Palo Alto, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Doris; three daughters, Ellen Sarnoff of Boca Raton, Fla., and Pat Cantor and Carol Maslow, both of Manhattan; a sister, Miriam Passerman of Manhattan; a brother, Morton, of Chappagua, N.Y., nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      