
        George T. Delacorte, the founder of Dell Publishing and a philanthropist who gave millions to embellish New York City with fountains, statues, theaters and schools that bear his name, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97 years old and also lived in North Palm Beach, Fla., and Sharon, Conn.
        A son, Albert, said Mr. Delacorte had not been ill and apparently died in his sleep of natural causes.
        Mr. Delacorte made his fortune publishing everything from penny-a-word mysteries and romances to comic books -- Mickey Mouse, Woody Woodpecker and Bugs Bunny -- to the novels of Kurt Vonnegut, James Clavell, James Jones and Irwin Shaw. But his name became chiseled into the consciousness of New Yorkers as the man who gave them the Delacorte Clock, Delacorte Fountain and Delacorte Amphitheater in Central Park and, at Columbia University, the Delacorte Professorship in the Humanities and the Delacorte Center for Magazine Journalism.
        His most popular contribution may be the enchanting Alice-in-Wonderland statue that he placed in what he called "the finest spot in Central Park" in 1959.  A Whimsical Carousel
        The statue, just north of the Conservatory Pond, was given as a memorial to his first wife, Margarita, because, it was said, she used to read Alice's Adventures in Wonderland to their six children. "I don't know," he said. "It's a good story. It just seemed a nice thing to have in the park. On Sunday mornings I watch the kids climbing over it, under it. It's a regular parade."
        Not far away to the south is the Delacorte Clock at the Children's Zoo, a whimsical carousel with a dancing bear, an elephant playing a concertina, a kangaroo with a horn and other animal figures that perform every half hour to the music of a glockenspiel. To the west is the Delacorte Amphitheater, home to Shakespeare in the Park. A mobile Delacorte Theater made it possible to take Shakespeare to other parks around the city. At Columbus Circle and at Bowling Green and at City Hall are Delacorte fountains.
        In 1985 Mr. Delacorte, by then in his 90's, gave Columbia, his alma mater, $2,250,000 to create the George T. Delacorte Center for Magazine Journalism. He then pledged an additional $2 million to establish a chair in his name.
        In 1982 Columbia had awarded him an honorary doctorate after he had contributed the ornamental iron gates that formed the entry to the university and had paid for the planting of cherry trees, shrubs and ivy ground cover on the campus. In 1975 Mr. Delacorte gave $750,000 to Columbia to establish the Delacorte Professorship in the Humanities.  'Delacorte's Folly'
        But of all his contributions, his own favorite remained the Delacorte geyser at the tip of Roosevelt Island. He and his wife called it "Delacorte's Folly." In 1969, Mr. Delacorte conceived the idea that New York should have a geyser equal to the Jet D'Eau in Lake Geneva, Switzerland.
        His geyser, at 400 feet, was to be the highest fountain in the world, but many New Yorkers were outraged that, when built, the $350,000 jet spewed polluted East River water into the air. He was forced to chlorinate the fountain. Then the chlorination withered trees that Sutton Place residents had placed on the island to improve their view. Mr. Delacorte was more annoyed than moved by the complaints. He said his fountain was there before the trees.
        In an editorial when the fountain was installed, The New York Times, citing the city's crucial needs and noting that the money might have been put to better use instead of being thrown "literally down the drain," called him "the wrong-way Corrigan of New York philanthropy."
        In his 90's, when he was asked whether he had given any thought to using the $350,000 to help the poor, he said, "People are poor because they're dumb or because they're lazy. If you feed them you just keep them in the same strata."  'I Hate Hospitals'
        Mr. Delacorte was a philanthropic loner who did not like to serve on the boards of museums or schools or hospitals. "I hate hospitals," he said. Instead, he gave money where and when he liked to whatever struck his fancy. Only once, did he join with others. That was in 1964, when he helped create a group called "Make New York Beautiful Inc,," to "promote interest and aid in the donation of permanent improvements to the City of New York for its cultural advancement and beautification."
        With the straightforwardness that characterized his public comments, he said, "We want guys who are going to kick off, and want to do something for the city before they do, to give maybe $ l00,000 or $500,000."
        George Thomas Delacorte Jr. was born in New York City on June 20, 1893. He attended Boys High and went to Harvard before switching to Columbia, where he graduated in 1913. By that time he was married and brought his first son to his graduation ceremony. Afterward, determined not to be a lawyer as his father was, Mr. Delacorte went to work for a small publishing company.
        When he was dismissed the company paid him the $10,000 he had been promised in his contract, enough to found his own company, Dell Publishing. It was 1921 and the beginings were small -- two employees and one title, "I Confess." Soon, he was turning out dozens of pulp magazines with penny-a-word stories: "Cupid's Diary," "Screen Stories," and "Inside Detective."  'Read a Fresh Magazine'
        A satirical magazine, "Ballyhoo," became a huge success. But there was a gimmick. "Ballyhoo" came wrapped in a new invention called cellophane, and carried the slogan: "Read a fresh magazine." By the fourth issue, more than two million copies were being sold.
        Soon Mr. Delacorte was on his way to building his fortune, supplemented by millions that he earned through an investment in Ballantine Beer just as Prohibition was ending.
        His pulp magazines were soon joined by comic books -- not only Woody Woodpecker and Bugs Bunny but all the Walt Disney characters from Mickey Mouse to Pluto. Dell was selling 300 million comic books a year, with Walt Disney comics alone sometimes accounting for three million copies in a single month.
        Long before women were given responsible positions in business, Mr. Delacorte hired Helen Meyer, still in her 20's, who was to become a major force at Dell and in American publishing. When he was 92, Mr. Delacorte still remembered why. "I'm a great believer in hiring women," he said. "If you have a capable man and your competitors know about it they'll start propositioning him. Women are more loyal. Women of course have their shortcomings. . . They leave to have babies." 'Name Her After Me'
        Mrs. Meyer recalled that on the day her daughter was born a telegram arrived from her boss -- who was the first to admit that he liked to see his name on monuments and fountains. "If you don't name her after me," he wrote, "you can't have your job back." The baby was called Adele. She said her second baby was a boy and Mr. Delacorte wanted him to be called Cort. She named him Robert.
        After World War II Dell became one of the major American publishers of paperback books.
        In 1963, Dell formed Delacorte Press principally to assure itself a continuing supply of material for the paperback division. Among the authors who came to Delacorte to be published first in hard-cover editions and later in Dell paperbacks were Kurt Vonnegut, Irwin Shaw, James Jones, Danielle Steel, Belva Plain and Robert B. Parker.
        Although Mr. Delacorte nominally retired in 1976 when Dell was sold to Doubleday & Company for $35 million in cash, he continued to walk to an office he kept in midtown during the months that he and his second wife, the former Valerie Hoecker, spent in New York. Pictures of His Grandchildren
        He met the second Mrs. Delacorte in 1959 at a party in his home three years after his first wife died. A widow, and once considered the most beautiful woman in Hungary, she arrived at the home with the Maharaja of Jaipur and his wife. When Mr. Delacorte introduced himself, he led her out into the gallery where he started showing her pictures of his 18 grandchildren. "A very sexy approach," she recalled. Mr. Delacorte said, "She fell in love with my grandchildren so she married me."
        In 1985 he sold their apartment on Fifth Avenue -- "We had 24 rooms and all of them were occupied" -- and moved a few blocks down the avenue to a six-room pied-a-terre, which they used when they were not in their oceanfront home in Florida or at their Connecticut estate.
        The New York apartment was filled with paintings he collected over the years, including a Rubens, a Canaletto, a Corot and several from the school of Rembrandt.
        Mr. Delacorte, who always said he liked to see something for his money, was never reluctant to write a check when it came to Central Park. Thomas Hoving, Parks Commissioner in 1966 and 1967, remembered a scheme he had devised to relieve Mr. Delacorte of some of his money. He set up tables at the Bethesda Fountain, and knowing that Mr. Delacorte always came that way as he walked to work, got some photographers to hide in the bushes to await his arrival.
        On schedule, Mr. Delacorte walked by, saw Mr. Hoving, and asked what was going on. Mr. Hoving replied that he was trying to set up a restaurant but needed $50,000. On cue the two photographers popped out of the bushes to ask Mr. Delacorte what he was doing there. Without missing a beat, Mr. Delacorte replied, "I have decided to sponsor this wonderful thing in the park."
        When Mr. Hoving confessed that he had set him up, Mr. Delacorte told him, "Next time just pick up the phone and ask me." The Bethesda Terrace restaurant was a great success, but only for a few years.  An Unsolicited Gift
        When the 2,500-seat amphitheater in the park was about to be abandoned for lack of funds, Mr. Delacorte came through with an unsolicited gift of $150,000 for its completion and added another $50,000 later. In 1964 he gave $35,000 for a mobile stage for the Shakespeare theater and in 1970 gave another $30,000 to the Shakespeare Festival.
        Even in his 90's Mr. Delacorte continued to take long walks in Central Park, despite a mugging in December 1985, when one attacker grabbed him and another held a knife to Mrs. Delacorte, taking her new mink coat.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Delacorte is survived by two sons, Albert, of New York, and Malcolm, of Cornwall, N.Y.; three daughters, Consuelo Carson, of McLean, Va., Marianne Holland, of Cos Cob, Conn., and Margarita, of New York; a sister, Letty Osserman, and a brother, Eugene, both of New York; 18 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren.
        A funeral will be held at 10 A.M. Tuesday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at 1076 Madison Avenue, near 81st Street.
        Mr. Delacorte was an avid storyteller in his later years. One day, however, when he was in the middle of an anecdote he lost his train of thought. "You know," he said, "at 92 the memory is the first thing to go." He paused for a moment and said, "Well, to tell you the truth, the first thing that goes is sex. Then your memory goes. But the memory of sex never goes."
        He remained tanned and trim throughout his life -- "I weigh 139 pounds, same as I did in college," he said. He stopped playing tennis when he was 91 but continued to play golf.
        Had he ever been seriously ill? "I caught a cold once," he said.
      