
        The Rev. George W. Moore, pastor of St. Malachy's Roman Catholic Church at 239 West 49th Street, commonly known as "the actors' chapel," died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 64 years old and lived at the rectory in Manhattan.
        He died of prostate cancer, which had been in remission for eight years, a spokeswoman for the church said.
        Father Moore accepted the challenge of getting the parish back on its feet in 1976, when Terence Cardinal Cooke's consultants had urged him to sell the old red neo-Gothic church. Plagued by pimps and drug dealers, St. Malachy's was in a decaying area with declining church attendance and the largest percentage of elderly poor in New York City.
        Fred Allen was married there, as was Jimmy Durante. Cyril Ritchard was once a lector. Carroll O'Connor and Sir Alec Guinness are known to slip into the chapel, where Spencer Tracy and Rosalind Russell once worshiped. But it was as the locale of the movie "Going My Way," starring Bing Crosby and Ingrid Bergman, that the church was most famous.
        "Father Moore turned it around through charisma, personality and his perspective that the church belongs to the poor," said Sister Elizabeth Hasselt.  'Went Out and Hustled'
        In 1987 Father Moore started Encore '49, across the street from the chapel in the former Markwell Hotel, as a residence for 91 homeless elderly people. At his death he was working to develop housing for AIDS patients.
        Sister Elizabeth is the executive director of Encore Community Services, an outgrowth of Encore Senior Center, which was founded by Father Moore in the church basement in 1977 to serve the elderly, the homeless and the mentally ill.
        "He went out and hustled for the money and built a cadre of very fine people who will insure that the work continues," Sister Elizabeth said.
        The night before he died, the American Theater Wing voted to award him a special Tony honor for his work in the theatrical community for the last 14 years.  'No Business Like Show Business'
        "This is a show-biz parish," Father Moore said in 1979 at the dedication of a carillon that saluted curtain time every evening and matinee with "There's No Business Like Show Business."
        "Church bells, ringing out above all this we see around us, will be a reassurance to the many wonderful people here while telling the purveyors of slime and sleaze, 'There's something else here besides you.' "
        The carillon has since broken, but Theatrespace, a showcase for young actors, writers and composers was opened during his tenure, and the Encore Recital program for musicians was inaugurated in 1979.
        George Washington Moore Jr. was born in Kingston, N.Y., on May 23, 1926. After two years in the Navy, he enrolled as a premed student at Ohio State University, planning to be an ophthalmologist. Then he heard a sermon on the priesthood by a traveling missionary team and the idea took hold.
        He was ordained by the New York Archdiocese in 1955 and served at parishes in Pelham Bay and Riverdale in the Bronx before going to St. Malachy's.
        He was a member of the Mayor's Midtown Citizens Committee; chairman of the Broadway Association and of the 42d Street Development Corporation, and served on Community Board 5 from 1977 to 1988. He was a founder of the Eighth Avenue Community Association and took a leading role in the fight against street prostitution and pornography establishments in the area.
        There are no immediate survivors.
        A funeral Mass will be celebrated by John Cardinal O'Connor on Tuesday at 10 A.M. at St. Malachy's.
      