
        Milton R. Wessel, who prosecuted more than a score of alleged Mafia figures seized in Apalachin, N.Y., in 1957 only to have the case collapse when an appeals court ruled that the defendants' constitutional rights had been violated, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 67 years old.
        He died of coronary thrombosis, his family said.
        On the afternoon of Nov. 14, 1957, 63 men were having steak dinner at the estate of Joseph S. Barbara Sr. in the hamlet of Apalachin in Tioga County near the Pennsylvania border. When a state trooper and two Federal agents were sighted observing the gathering, the guests burst out of the house and fled, only to be seized at a roadblock or rounded up by troopers as they fled across the fields.
        Twenty-seven of the diners, many of whom had long police records and had been identified by state and Federal authorities as members of organized crime, were charged with conspiring to obstruct justice by refusing to divulge the nature of their meeting.
        The defendants included Paul Castellano, the reputed head of the Carlo Gambino crime family who was later gunned down in Manhattan; Joseph (Joe Bananas) Bonnano, Carmine Lambardozzi and Joseph Magliocco. Among 36 alleged co-conspirators not indicted were Mr. Barbara, Mr. Gambino and Vito Genovese.
        Most of the defendants, who had come from many parts of the United States, said they had heard Mr. Barbara was ill and happened to drop in at the same time to pay their respects. Mr. Barbara died 18 months later at the age of 55.
        Mr. Wessel, who was named a special assistant to Attorney General William P. Rogers and put in charge of the prosecution, said the diners were Mafia figures meeting to discuss rackets in narcotics, gambling and labor union affairs. But he conceded that because of the Mafia code of silence the Government could not say exactly what had gone on at the meeting.
        In December 1959 a jury found 20 of the men guilty of conspiracy; 15 received maximum five-year sentences. But 11 months later the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled unanimously that the Government had failed to offer "a shred of legal evidence that the Apalachin gathering was illegal or even improper."
        Mr. Wessel was a Wall Street lawyer before becoming an assistant United States Attorney in Manhattan. He returned to private practice in the 1960's and later taught at the Georgetown Law School.
        Mr. Wessel is survived by his wife, the former Joan Strauss; three sons, Ken, of Manhattan; Douglas, of Oakland, Calif., and Michael, of Washington; a sister, Jane Novins of Falls Church, Va.; a brother, Harry, of Natick, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      