
        Tom Eyen, a prolific experimental playwright who wrote the book and lyrics for the 1981 hit Broadway musical "Dreamgirls," died early Sunday morning at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 50 years old.
        Mr. Eyen, who also maintained an apartment in New York, died of cardiac arrest in his sleep, said his press agent, Alan Eichler.
        A pioneer of the Off Off Broadway experimental theater movement in the 1960's, Mr. Eyen was called the Neil Simon of Off Off Broadway at one point when he had four plays running simultaneously. His first significant commercial success was his satirical comedy "The Dirtiest Show in Town," which opened in 1970 and which ran for two seasons at the Astor Place Theater.
        Eleven years later, "Dreamgirls," which he had conceived and guided through three workshops, opened at the Imperial Theater on Broadway, where it ran for 1,522 performances, winning him a Tony Award for best book for a musical.
        Mr. Eyen, who was born in Cambridge, Ohio, and who was the youngest of six children, graduated from Ohio State University and immediately moved to New York City to study acting. Quickly realizing that he was not cut out to be an actor, he briefly worked as a press agent while turning his energies to writing.  Theater Company Formed
        Mr. Eyen rapidly established himself as one of the most prolific and popular playwrights in the fledgling Off Off Broadway movement. With a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation he formed his own company, the Theater of the Eye, in the mid-1960's. This loose coalition of actors performed his play about Sarah Bernhardt, "Sarah B. Divine!," at the Spoleto Festival in Italy in 1967, and its members remained associated for more than a decade.
        Most of his 35 experimental plays from the 1960's and 70's were produced at the Cafe La Mama, with Mr. Eyen usually directing. They included "The White Whore and the Bit Player" (1964), "Why Hannah's Skirt Won't Stay Down" (1964), "Give My Regards to Off Off Broadway" (1966), "Who Killed My Bald Sister Sophie?" (1968), "Women Behind Bars" (1974) and "The Neon Woman" (1979).
        With their campy dialogue, strong language, bold sexual content and obsession with fame and Hollywood, Mr. Eyen's plays were often described as outrageous. Although the title of "The Dirtiest Show in Town," the play that brought him his first significant commercial success, was a satirical response to the era's sex-oriented plays featuring nude actors, it also belonged to that genre.
        In 1976, Mr. Eyen became a writer for Norman Lear's satirical television soap opera, "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman." The same season, he contributed material to Bette Midler's first network special, "Ol' Red Hair Is Back," for which he was nominated for an Emmy. Ms. Midler had made her New York theatrical debut in his musical play "Miss Nefertiti Regrets" in 1965.  Before Michael Bennett
        Since the mid-1970's, Mr. Eyen had nurtured the idea for "Dreamgirls," a large-scale musical roughly based on the Supremes. Before turning the project over to Michael Bennett, who oversaw the Broadway production, he had directed the show's first early workshops and cast Jennifer Holliday in a leading role.
        In addition to winning a Tony for best book for a musical, Mr. Eyen and his musical collaborator, Henry Krieger, were nominated for best score, and with the record producer David Foster they shared a Grammy for best cast album.
        The show had a five-month Broadway revival in 1987.
        The playwright left behind several completed projects, including two original stage musicals: "Kicks," written with the composer Alan Menken, and "Dangerous Music," for which he again teamed with Mr. Krieger.
        He is survived by his mother, Julia Eyen; his brothers James and John Eyen and a sister, Josephine Ammer, all of Cambridge, and by a sister, Sadie Alexander, of Melbourne, Fla., and by a brother, Richard Eyen, of New York.
        The funeral, in Cambridge, will be private.
      