
        Paul Ziffren, a Democratic Party leader in California in the 1950's, died Friday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77 years old.
        His family declined to disclose the cause of death.
        Mr. Ziffren, a tax lawyer, rose to prominence in national Democratic politics in the early 1950's. In 1953, he became a member of the national committee and also reactivated the Western States Democratic Conference, building a bloc of liberals in 12 states to offset the influence of conservative Southerners in the party.
        He led the successful lobby to bring the Democratic National Convention to Los Angeles in 1960, a gathering, The New York Times said on Jan. 19, 1959, that "is bound to focus national attention on Democratic triumphs in which Mr. Ziffren has had an important hand."
        Indeed, his quiet manner belied a bold backstage voice in determining everything from which delegations would be seated at the convention to the choice of the Presidential candidate. Hopefuls like John F. Kennedy and Hubert H. Humphrey sought him out.
        But three weeks before the gathering, Gov. Edmund G. Brown removed Mr. Ziffren as a national committeeman. He was accused by associates of the Governor, one of the Presidential hopefuls, of trying to persuade Kennedy to enter the California Presidential primary in opposition to Mr. Brown's favorite-son candidacy.
        In 1979 Mr. Ziffren became chairman of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee, which sponsored the 1984 Summer Olympics. From 1984 to 1988 he served as chairman of the Amateur Athletic Foundation.
        Born in Davenport, Iowa, on July 18, 1913, Mr. Ziffren received a degree from the Northwestern University School of Law. He then joined the Chicago office of the Internal Revenue Service and later became head of the tax division of the United States Attorney's office.
        He worked briefly for the law firm of Jacob L. Arvey, the Chicago Democratic leader, before moving to California in 1943.
        He served on numerous executive boards and won several citizenship awards, including the 1990 Founders Award from the St. Jude's Hospital Foundation.
        He is survived by his wife, Muriel; four children, Kenneth, Toni, Abbie and John, and two grandchildren.
      