
        Lieut. Gen. Arthur Gilbert Trudeau, retired, a former chief of the Army's Research and Development Command, died Wednesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88 years old.
        He died of heart failure, said his daughter Joan.
        General Trudeau retired from the Army in 1962 and became president of the Gulf Research and Development Company in Harmarville, Pa. He later served as assistant to the chairman of what is now Rockwell International and as a management consultant.
        He was named chief of Army intelligence in October 1953 but was relieved of his command 20 months later when Allen W. Dulles, Director of Central Intelligence, sent a scathing memorandum of complaints to the Pentagon. Although the contents of the memorandum were not made public, General Trudeau was noted for his vigorous anti-Communist statements, and he often clashed with other Government officials over their differing views of Communist intentions. Trouble-Shooter for Eisenhower
        The general was then named commander of the I Corps in South Korea and served until 1958, when he was named chief of research and development, a position that would allow him, he said, to inject a "vigorous attitude" into missile and weapons programs.
        He was a specialist on amphibious warfare. In the fall of 1942 he organized the manufacture of thousands of amphibious vessels in Australia. He also served as a trouble-shooter for Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower to break invasion bottlenecks in Europe. He was later assigned to Gen. Douglas MacArthur to help plan the invasion of Japan.
        After the Japanese surrender, he served on a military panel that convicted and sentenced to death Lieut. Gen. Masaharu Homma, the commander of Japanese forces in the Philippines who had authorized the death march of Bataan.
        General Trudeau was an outspoken advocate of racial integration of the military. He also said it was in the nation's best interests that educational opportunities be provided for the disadvantaged so they could take advantage of new career openings.  Medal for Gallantry
        During the Korean War, as commander of the Seventh Infantry Division, General Trudeau earned a Silver Star for gallantry by making a personal reconnaissance of a strategic position, Porkchop Hill, while it was under heavy enemy fire.
        General Trudeau was born in Middlebury, Vt., on July 5, 1902, and graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1924. He was the recipient of dozens of military and civilian awards, including the Distinguished Service Medal and the Legion of Merit, as well as honorary degrees from several colleges and universities.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalie, whom he married in 1965 after the death of his first wife, Helen; a daughter from his first marriage, Joan T. Kane of Carlisle, Pa.; three stepdaughters, Susan Walsh Day of Bethesda, Md., Mary Lozano of Laurel, Md., and Margaret McCloskey of Auburn, Me.; a stepson, Raymond A. Walsh Jr. of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., 11 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      