
        Arthur A. Watson, who as the president of NBC Sports brought the 1988 and 1992 Summer Olympics to the network but balked at the high price of retaining major league baseball, died on Thursday night at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 61 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed, at his family's request.
        Mr. Watson was president of NBC Sports from July 1979 to April 1989, when he was named executive vice president of NBC. In his new position, he stayed involved with the sports division, consulting on deals that brought National Basketball Association games and University of Notre Dame football to NBC. Disappointment, Then Elation
        For five months before his tenure at NBC Sports, Mr. Watson was executive vice president of the NBC television network, where he was in charge of sales for the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympics. His disappointment at the United States boycott of the Moscow Games turned to elation in 1986, when NBC's $300 million bid won the rights to broadcast the 1988 Summer Games from Seoul, South Korea.
        Known as a shrewd bargainer, Mr. Watson signaled to ABC and CBS that NBC would not be a strong participant in negotiating for the broadcast rights to the 1992 Summer Games, in Barcelona, Spain, but NBC emerged with the winning $401 million bid.
        "He talked gloom and doom, how he'd lost money on Seoul, which he hadn't, and that especially scared off ABC," said Richard Pound, vice president of the International Olympic Committee. "He was like a happy, crafty leprechaun." Acquired Wimbledon Rights
        Commenting on his tactic, Mr. Watson said at the time, "Not a bad strategy, eh, coach?"
        Although major league baseball had been an NBC staple for 40 years, Mr. Watson avoided overbidding on the current four-year network package, which was acquired by CBS for $1.06 billion. He pulled NBC out of that competition after offering $680 million, and accurately predicted that CBS would lose money on baseball and that the $1 billion bid would cause sports rights fees to skyrocket.
        During his years at NBC Sports, Mr. Watson nurtured the professional growth of announcers like Bob Costas and Marv Albert, helped create the Breeders' Cup day of thoroughbred horse racing in 1983, and acquired the rights to events like Wimbledon and the French Open in tennis and soccer's World Cup.
        Mr. Watson was born in New York on May 4, 1930, and graduated from Fordham University with a degree in accounting. He joined NBC as an operations analyst in 1956 and spent 20 years in various posts in NBC's television stations division.
        He is survived by his wife, Maryalesia, with whom he lived in Saddle River, N.J.; a daughter, Lisa; three sons, Arthur Jr., Keith and Scott, and four grandchildren.
      