
        Sumner Locke Elliott, a novelist and playwright whose fiction drew upon his formative years in his native Australia, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 years old.
        He died of colon cancer, a friend and fellow writer, Whitfield Cook, said.
        Mr. Elliott's career was divided into three parts, first as an actor in major English-language plays in Australia, then as a leading writer of more than 30 original plays and scores of adaptations in the golden age of live American television of the 1950's and then as a best-selling writer of a dozen artful novels.
        He was noted for a vigorous prose style and for finely etched characters often torn by repressed emotions and desires, although detractors accused him at times of slickness bordering on soap opera.  Of an Orphaned Boy
        Mr. Elliott's autobiographical first novel, "Careful, He Might Hear You," was recounted largely from the perspective of an orphaned boy whose aunts are battling for his custody. William Barrett, in a review in The Atlantic Monthly in 1964, wrote: "For a first novel, the grasp of the fictional medium is astonishing. The style is graceful and supple; the characterization throughout is rich and sure; Mr. Elliott's ear for dialogue is impeccable, and he skillfully shifts perspectives from character to character without the least hitch or strain to the smooth pace of his narrative."
        The novel, published in 1963, was later transformed into a film in Australia under the original title and won eight of Australia's 1984 cinematic awards.
        "Edens Lost," Mr. Elliott's fourth novel, was a domestic tale of family secrets and guilt. It was published in 1969 and described by Joyce Carol Oates as "a peculiar mixture of old-fashioned wonderment over the interlocking fates of human beings and oblique, sketchy, sardonic flashes of life as lived, or half-lived, by quite modern and rootless people."
        Among other Elliott novels are "Some Doves and Pythons" (1966), "Rusty Bugles" (1968), "The Man Who Got Away" (1972), "Water Under the Bridge" (1977), "Waiting for Childhood" (1987) and "Fairyland," about growing up as a gay man in Australia, published last year.
        Mr. Elliott was born in Sydney on Oct. 17, 1917. His father, Henry Logan Elliott, was a journalist, and his mother, the former Sumner Locke, was a novelist and playwright. The son was orphaned in childhood, brought up by aunts and uncles, attended schools in Australia, served through World War II in that county's Outback, came to the United States in 1948, becoming an American citizen in 1955, and won several Australian writing honors.
        There are no immediate survivors.
        A brief memorial service is to be held today at 11:30 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at 81st Street and Madison Avenue.
      