
        Thomas I. Emerson, a legal theorist who was a major architect of civil liberties laws, died on Wednesday at the Yale Health Services Center in New Haven. He was 83 years old and lived North Haven, Conn.
        He died of complications from a stroke, said Martha Matzke, a spokeswoman for Yale.
        Professor Emerson, who taught at the Yale Law School for three decades, was a scholar whose career involved him in many of the great societal and political issues of the century.
        As a young lawyer in 1931, fresh out of Yale, he served on the defense team that successfully appealed the convictions of the "Scottsboro boys," nine black Alabama teen-agers sentenced to death after they were convicted of raping two white women. The case came to be regarded as the beginning of the civil rights era. Foreshadowed Roe v. Wade
        In 1965, Professor Emerson successfully argued Griswold v. Connecticut before the United States Supreme Court, which overturned a state law banning the sale of contraceptives. The ruling established a right to privacy and foreshadowed the Roe v. Wade decision legalizing abortion.
        Professor Emerson was born in Passaic, N.J., and was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Yale before going on to its law school and becoming editor in chief of The Yale Law Journal.
        He went to Washington with President Roosevelt's New Deal in 1933 and worked in the National Recovery Administration, on the National Labor Relations Board, on the Social Security Board and in the Attorney General's office.
        In World War II he was deputy administrator for enforcement of the Office of Price Administration, general counsel for the Office of Economic Stabilization and general counsel of the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion. Honored for Civil Liberties Work
        He was named a professor of law at Yale in 1946 and in 1955 became the Lines Professor of Law. He retired in 1976. He was the author of several books, notably "The System of Freedom of Expression," published in 1970. It was regarded as a major treatise on free speech.
        Professor Emerson was president of the National Lawyers Guild in 1950 and 1951 and was the first recipient of the American Civil Liberties Union Medal of Liberty for his lifetime service in defense of civil liberties.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Calvin; a daughter, Joan, of San Francisco; two sons, Robert, of Los Angeles, and Dr. Luther Emerson 3d of Brattleboro, Vt., and three brothers, Luther Jr., of Demarest, N.J., James, of Lyons, Colo., and Paul, of Somerville, N.J.
      