
        Malcolm Frager, an American pianist whose music making and life style steered a career path somewhat outside the ordinary in the music world, died yesterday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 56 years old.
        Mr. Frager was a Christian Scientist and his family declined to give the cause of death, but he was reported to have been ill for about a year. His most recent public appearances were in July with the Baltimore Symphony under David Zinman's direction. Many concert dates thereafter were canceled.
        Mr. Frager's pianism was known more for stringent honesty than for any attempt at ingratiation. James R. Oestreich, writing in The New York Times about a 1990 recital at the 92d Street Y, called attention to Mr. Frager's "bright lights and brittleness" and his use of "formidable intelligence to make connections." The pianist consciously stayed away from a large body of contemporary music and recorded less frequently than others, and was known mainly for his deep interest in Beethoven and Mozart and as a champion of the two Weber Piano Concertos.
        Mr. Frager was also a student of old musical manuscripts and forager for them. Schumann and Tchaikovsky were two of his targets, and he was also instrumental in the retrieval of a huge body of Mozart and Beethoven manuscripts that were removed from Germany during World War II and stored in Cracow, Poland.  Down to the Farm
        In 1969, Mr. Frager rejected the musician's life in New York City and moved with his wife to a 70-acre farm in Lenox, Mass., barely a mile from the Tanglewood Festival. He remained a busy member of the world concert circuit, often spending as much as nine months of the year on the road.
        Malcolm Frager was born in St. Louis on Jan. 15, 1935. His father was a hosiery wholesaler. At the age of 14, Mr. Frager persuaded his family to send him to New York City, where he studied with the pianist and teacher Carl Friedberg, whom he had heard play in 1948. Friedberg had studied with Clara Schumann and rubbed shoulders with Mahler and Brahms in a long career before the public, and he remained Mr. Frager's teacher until his death in 1955. Mr. Frager's career was set firmly in motion by two competition victories in successive years: the Leventritt in New York in 1959 and the Queen Elisabeth in Brussels in 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, Morag; a son, Andrew, of Lenox; a daughter, Melanie, of New York City, and his parents, Florence and Alfred Frager of St. Louis.
      