
        John H. Greene, the chief operating officer and executive vice president of Outward Bound U.S.A., died of a heart attack on Thursday in Loch Eil, Scotland, while hiking on a mountain with a group of magazine publishers.
        Mr. Greene, a resident of Rowayton, Conn., was 45 years old.
        The president of Outward Bound, John Raynolds, said Mr. Greene was participating in "an invitational trip for various magazine publishers to introduce them to Outward Bound and help generate their support for our public-service ad campaign." There were 17 publishers on the trip, Mr. Raynolds said.
        Outward Bound is a nonprofit organization that uses challenging physical activities including rock-climbing, sailing and rafting to promote self-confidence and teamwork. Its participants range from corporate executives to troubled youths to people seeking an adventure.
        The publishers had arrived for a five-day expedition on Wednesday, Mr. Raynolds said. After breakfast on Thursday, he said, "They packed up their gear and began a hike up a 4,000-foot mountain called Ben Nevis. 'Outgoing, Caring Person'
        "The weather was kind of misty and cold," Mr. Raynolds said, "so they elected to take an easier trail, rather than the more direct, steeper one. They set off and 45 minutes into the hike, John Greene just collapsed."
        Mr. Greene was declared dead after a helicopter brought his body to a hospital in Port Williams, Scotland.
        As chief operating officer of Outward Bound U.S.A., Mr. Greene was in charge of all operations of the organization's national office in Greenwich, Conn. He had been with Outward Bound for eight years. Before joining the organization, he was a partner in Direct Marketing Group Inc. in New York.
        A native of Greenwich, Mr. Greene graduated from Lake Forest College in Illinois with a bachelor of arts degree in 1966.
        Mr. Raynolds described his colleague and friend as an athletic man who "was very likeable -- an outgoing, caring person."
        Mr. Greene is survived by his wife, Kathy; two sons, Bradley, and Matthew, ; his mother, Anne Holt Greene of Orleans on Cape Cod, Mass.; two brothers, William, of North Wales, Pa., and Michael, of Boston, and two sisters, Gina James of Pagosa Springs, Colo., and Lisa McCall of Boston.
      