
        Larry Kert, the singer and actor who soared to fame in 1957 as the male romantic lead in "West Side Story," died Wednesday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old.
        He died of AIDS, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Kert, with his big, resonant tenor, captivated "West Side Story" audiences for three years with such compelling songs as "Tonight," "Maria" and "Something's Coming." The explosive tale of star-crossed lovers doomed by prejudice, with its score by Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, direction and choreography by Jerome Robbins and book by Arthur Laurents, enthralled audiences in New York, London and on tour, and, later, in film and repeated revivals.
        A decade later, Mr. Kert again triumphed on Broadway and in London in "Company," interpreting Mr. Sondheim's elegantly intricate musical exploration of urbane marriage and nonmarriage. He took over the central role from Dean Jones after only three weeks, led the long run and became the first replacement actor to be nominated for a Tony Award.  A Love of Roller Coasters
        Other musicals starring the trim, resilient actor were short-lived, and he devoted most of his later efforts to cabaret, television, tours and regional theater. "I love roller coasters, and I've been on one all my life," he said in 1988 while touring in "La Cage aux Folles."
        "I did 'Rags,' a $6 million production; it ran for four performances," he said good-naturedly in a Los Angeles interview. "Earlier, 'La Strada' with Bernadette Peters; one performance. Also, 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' with Mary Tyler Moore and Richard Chamberlain; four previews and we never opened."
        The actor, whose original name was Frederick Lawrence Kert, was born in Los Angeles on Dec. 5, 1930. His father was a jeweler and his mother was an actress. The son was an extra and a stunt player in a score of movies, graduated from Hollywood High School and dropped out of Los Angeles City College to go to New York, where he studied acting with Sanford Meisner and singing with Keith Davis.
        Returning to Los Angeles, Mr. Kert joined "Bill Norvas and the Upstarts," a group of singers and dancers. He appeared with them and later alone on tour, in television and on Broadway, where he had small roles and was an understudy in several musicals until he got the role in "West Side Story."  Cutting Room Floor
        He sought unsuccessfully to get a major film role until 1977, when he was paired with Liza Minnelli in a splashy "Happy Endings" production number in Martin Scorsese's "New York, New York." The 11-minute sequence was deleted at the distributor's insistence, but Mr. Scorsese restored it in 1981, and it became a cult movie-within-a-movie.
        In contrast, for more than a decade, Mr. Kert sought without success to mount a Broadway tribute to Al Jolson, whose nostalgic ebullience he wove into his otherwise sophisticated cabaret shows.
        A major success was a 1987 tour with concert versions of George and Ira Gershwins' twin musicals on the Presidency, "Of Thee I Sing" and "Let 'Em Eat Cake." Mr. Kert was hailed by Lon Tuck in The Washington Post with this tribute:
        "The firmness of his sound, the precision of his rhythm and the beauty of his phrasing in a song like 'Mine' is just lovely. This terribly talented man is singing just as finely as he was 30 years ago when he burst upon the scene as the unforgettable Tony in 'West Side Story.' "
        In his last public performance, Mr. Kert joined Carol Lawrence at the Rainbow and Stars cabaret atop Rockefeller Center eight months ago, and they did a reprise of their signature songs from "West Side Story."
        His companion was Ron Pullen.
        Mr. Kert is survived by two sisters, Anita Ellis Shapiro, the singer who uses the professional name Anita Ellis, of Manhattan, and Evelyn Kert, of Los Angeles, and a brother, Mort, also of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  June 8, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Larry Kert, singer and actor, referred incorrectly in some copies to his role in "West Side Story." He played a romantic lead, not the leader of the Jets gang.
      