
        Dr. M. C. Chang, a renowned scientist in the field of reproductive biology who was the co-developer of the birth-control pill, died Wednesday at the Medical Center of Central Massachusetts-Memorial in Worcester, Mass. He was 82 years old and lived in Shrewsbury, Mass.
        He died of heart failure, said his daughter, Pamela.
        Dr. Chang, also a pioneer in in vitro fertilization, joined the staff at the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology in 1945 and, with Dr. Gregory G. Pincus of the Worcester Foundation and Dr. John Rock, head of the Rock Reproduction Clinic of Brookline, Mass., developed the oral contraceptive that revolutionized the lives of millions of people around the world.
        The "pill," as it has come to be known, not only revolutionized family planning through birth control and fueled the worldwide debate on overpopulation but also helped foster the sexual revolution as women lost much of their fear of becoming pregnant.  Studying Progesterone
        In the late 1940's and early 50's, Dr. Pincus, an authority on mammalian reproduction, and Dr. Chang, who had earned an international reputation in animal experimentation, turned their attention to the study of progesterone, a female hormone secretion that is touched off by ovulation.
        The hormone thickens the walls of the fallopian tubes and of the womb in preparation for implantation of a fertilized egg. Progesterone also safeguards against overlapping pregnancies and thus serves as a natural birth-control agent.
        After experimenting with more than 200 substances, the scientists settled on three steroid compounds extracted from the roots of the wild Mexican yam. The compounds appeared to prevent ovulation in laboratory animals. The scientists then teamed with Dr. Rock, who was also experimenting with progresterone to cure infertility.
        In 1956, experiments began with the steroids in pill form with women in Brookline, Puerto Rico and Haiti. In 1957 the Food and Drug Administration authorized the marketing of the steroids for prevention of miscarriage and treatment of certain menstrual disorders. In 1960 the Federal agency licensed the compounds as Enovid, a contraceptive pill. The pill prevents an ovum from being released and passing into the fallopian tube, where fertilization can take place. Instead, the egg is reabsorbed within the ovary.
        Dr. Chang is also credited with fundamental research with rabbits that made possible in vitro fertilization in humans. In 1987 the Fifth World Congress on In Vitro Fertilization and Embryo Transfer honored Dr. Chang for his contributions to the field. His work with animals in the 1950's led to the development of so-called "test-tube babies," the fertilization of an ovum by a male sperm outside the human body.
        Min-Chueh Chang was born in Taiyuan, China. He studied animal psychology at Tsing Hua University in Beijing and animal breeding at Cambridge University in England. He was a research assistant and instructor in China and England before settling in the United States, becoming a citizen in 1951. At the Worcester Foundation he was a research scientist and later senior scientist and principal scientist. In 1982, at his retirement, he was named principal scientist emeritus.
        Dr. Chang wrote more than 350 scientific studies and was a member of numerous professional organizations, including the American Physiology Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the British Society for the Study of Fertility and the New York Academy of Sciences. Last year he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
        He was also the recipient of numerous awards, including the Lasker Foundation Award in 1955, the Ortho Award in 1950 from the American Society for the Study of Sterility and, in 1961, the Ortho Medal and Award from the American Fertility Society. In 1983 he received the Pioneer Award from the International Embryo Transfer Society.
        He is survived by his wife, Isabelle; a son, Francis Hugh Chang of Brookline; two daughters, Pamela Chang of Berkeley, Calif., and Claudia Chang of Sweet Briar, Va., and three grandchildren.
      