
        Alvin B. Rubin, a Federal appeals judge in Louisiana known for his rulings on civil rights, died Tuesday at Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center in Baton Rouge, La. He was 71 years old and lived in Baton Rouge.
        Judge Rubin died of liver cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        As a judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, which includes New Orleans, and later as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, he wrote more than 700 opinions. They included rulings that ended Louisiana's exemption of women from juries, applied the Voting Rights Act to local elections and upheld the rights of government employees to criticize their superiors and to organize unions.
        His opinions were also laced with humor. Striking down a fire department rule in Texas that allowed a chief to suspend the union president for criticizing him, Judge Rubin began his opinion with a passage from Dr. Seuss's book "Yertle the Turtle:"
        " 'Silence,' the king of the turtles barked back. 'I'm king, and you're only a turtle named Mac.' "
        "Those in authority do not readily accept public criticism by their subordinates," Judge Rubin wrote.  A Longtime Instructor, Too
        His tenure on the Federal bench began in 1966, when President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him to the Federal District Court in New Orleans. In 1977 he was appointed by President Jimmy Carter to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and he moved to Baton Rouge. In 1989, aware that he had cancer, he took senior status.
        From 1946 to 1989 he taught as an adjunct professor at Louisiana State University Law School, from which he had received a law degree. He also taught at Southern University Law School in Baton Rouge, Duke Law School in Durham, N.C., and Tulane Law School in New Orleans.
        In 1978 he was the first recipient of L.S.U. Law School's Distinguished Alumni Award; in 1989 he received the American Civil Liberties Union Award.
        He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the House of Delegates of the American Bar Association and a member of the American Law Institute.
        Judge Rubin served in the Army in Europe in World War II. After his discharge, he was in private practice in Baton Rouge until his appointment to the Federal bench.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Janice Ginsberg; two sons, Michael H. and David S., both of Baton Rouge; and five grandchildren.
      