
        Dr. Jerome A. Urban, an internationally renowned cancer surgeon and a specialist in the diagnosis and surgical treatment of breast cancer, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and had homes in Hartsdale, N.Y., and St. Croix, V.I.
        He died of a stroke, a family spokeswoman said.
        Dr. Urban, who wrote more than 150 scientific articles dealing primarily with the early diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer, was a pioneer in the development of extended radical mastectomy for advanced breast cancer and in breast reconstruction. Operated on Rockefeller
        In October 1974, Dr. Urban, who was acting chief of the breast service at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, performed a radical mastectomy on Margaretta (Happy) Rockefeller, the wife of Nelson A. Rockefeller, former governor of New York and the Vice President designate at the time. Five weeks later later he operated on her again to remove her right breast.
        A 1938 graduate of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, Dr. Urban served his internship at Lenox Hill Hospital and in 1944 joined the staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases, a division of Sloan-Kettering.
        He served as a lieutenant in the Navy Medical Corps during World War II and afterwards resumed his position at Memorial. He was a clinical assistant surgeon, an attending surgeon and from 1974 to 1976 was acting chief of the breast service.
        Since 1984, he had been a consultant to the hospital. In addition, he had served on the staffs of six other hospitals in Manhattan and had taught at Cornell Univerity Medical College, where he had been a professor emeritus since 1988.
        Dr. Urban was born in Brooklyn in 1914. He was a member of many professional societies, including the James Ewing Society, the American Radium Society, the American Association for Cancer Research, the Royal Society of Medicine in London, the Society for Surgical Oncology and the Columbian Cancer Society. He received many honors, including a fellowship in the International College of Physicians and had also served as a vice president of the Pan Pacific Surgical Society.
        He is survived by his wife, Xenia; two daughters, Alexandra Keast of Manhattan and Xenia of Brooklyn; a son; Jere of Monkton, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      