
        Claudio Arrau, one of the great pianists of the 20th century, died yesterday in Murzzuschlag, Austria. He was 88 years old and lived in Munich.
        Friede F. Rothe, Mr. Arrau's personal representative, said the Chilean-born pianist died after after emergency surgery to correct an intestinal blockage on Saturday.
        Mr. Arrau was in Austria for what was to have been his first performance in two years, a private recital to open a museum in Murzzuschlag, 60 miles south of Vienna. He had stopped performing in June 1989 after the death of his wife, Ruth Schneider, a German-born mezzo-soprano, whom he married in 1937. In addition to his scheduled concert in Austria, he was to have peformed a recital on Friday at the Schumann Festival in Dusseldorf, Germany, at which the baritone Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau was to have given him the Gold Medal of the Royal Philharmonic Society of London.
        The Chilean Government designated today a national day of mourning for Mr. Arrau. A Model of Clarity
        In a career that spanned eight decades, Mr. Arrau was prized for an aristocratic approach to the great works of the 19th century. His specialties included the works of Liszt, to which he brought a rare combination of physical power and philosophical insight, and Beethoven, whose sonatas and concertos he played with an Apollonian breadth that many found both poetic and authoritative. His Chopin, Schumann and Debussy, too, were considered models of clarity throughout his long career.
        Mr. Arrau's stamina was also a matter of constant surprise in the musical world. Although in recent years he canceled performances frequently because of illness, when he did perform he invariably played large, demanding programs, and did so with the concentration and passion of a much younger musician. In 1983 he celebrated his 80th birthday with a tour that included six New York City concerts, as well as performances of the Beethoven "Emperor" and the Brahms Concerto No. 1 in Paris and Berlin.
        In the last year, he had also returned to the recording studio after a brief hiatus. In recent years, he recorded complete cycles of the Mozart and Beethoven sonatas and the Beethoven concertos, as well as works by Schubert, Liszt, Debussy and Bach.
        Describing his own work in a 1975 interview, Mr. Arrau said: "I try to play the way a cat jumps. It must be completely natural. I have promised myself that whenever I feel a kind of routine creeping into my playing, I will stop. Now when I play I am almost in ecstasy, a creative ecstasy, which I wouldn't miss for anything. This is what I live for." A Childhood at the Piano
        Born on February 6, 1903 in Chillan, in central Chile, Mr. Arrau showed his musical abilities early. His father, Carlos Arrau, had died before he was a year old, and his mother supported the family by giving piano lessons. When he was 4 years old, Mr. Arrau startled his mother by playing from memory some of the pieces her students played at their lessons. He could read music before he could read words, and he gave his first public performance in Santiago -- an ambitious program of Mozart, Beethoven and Schumann works -- when he was 5 years old.
        "All I wanted was music," Mr. Arrau once said of his early years. "I was even fed at the piano. Otherwise, it seems, I wouldn't eat. I used to play with my mouth open, and my mother put food in it."
        In 1911, Mr. Arrau performed in Chile and Argentina, and in 1912 the Chilean Congress gave him a scholarship to study at the Stern Conservatory in Berlin. He worked with Martin Krause, who had been one of the last students of Franz Liszt, until Krause's death in 1918. In this period he won many awards, including the Ibach Prize and the Gustav Hollander Medal. He made his Berlin recital debut in 1914 and toured Europe in 1918, playing under the direction of Karl Muck, Arthur Nikisch, Willem Mengelberg and Wilhelm Furtwangler, among others. In 1927, he won the Grand Prix Internationale des Pianistes, in Geneva.
        In 1922, Mr. Arrau made his first London appearance, sharing the program with the violinist Bronislaw Hubermann and the soprano Nellie Melba. The following year, he unsuccessfully tried to introduce himself to the American concert world, and he ended up penniless in New York City. But his New York debut, on Oct.r 20, 1923, did not go badly. An unsigned review in The New York Times noted that his playing had some mannerisms but that "these serve the purpose of an individual style." His performances of music by Debussy were said to mark him as a player who "has something to say and both the technical and temperamental means to say it." The Berlin Years
        Mr. Arrau joined the faculty of the Stern Conservatory in 1924 and taught there until 1940. He enjoyed a rarefied atmosphere in Berlin: Among the musicians in his circle were the composers and pianists Ferrucio Busoni and Eugene d'Albert and the Venezuelan pianist Teresa Carreno. In 1935 he played the entire keyboard works of Bach in a series of 12 Berlin recitals. Shortly thereafter, he gave up playing Bach in public. In later years, he explained his abandonment of Bach by saying that did not believe that Bach's music could be realized satisfactorily on the piano. But this year he changed his mind again and recorded four of the six Partitas.
        After the success of his Bach series, Mr. Arrau turned to the complete Mozart keyboard works, which he played in Berlin in 1936. He played his first Beethoven cycle, which included not only the 32 sonatas but the five concertos, in a Mexico City series in 1938. He repeated the Beethoven cycle around the world several times over the next few decades.
        Mr. Arrau fled Berlin in 1940 and returned to Chile, where he founded a piano school in Santiago. A year later, he toured the United States again, this time with great success. Olin Downes, reviewing a recital of Mozart, Schumann, Ravel and Debussy works in The New York Times, described Mr. Arrau as "a pianist of most exceptional equipment, imagination and unfailing taste." That year, he settled in Douglaston, Queens, where he lived until he moved to Munich in November 1990.
        Mr. Arrau toured extensively. He visited India in 1956 and played in Japan for the first time in 1965. But he stopped performing in Chile after 1967, in protest first against the Socialist Government of President Salvador Allende Gossens, and later against the authoritarian rule of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, who overthrew Allende. In 1977, he played a highly publicized benefit concert for Amnesty International that raised $190,000.
        He ended his boycott in 1984, when he returned to Santiago for his first performance in Chile in 17 years. At that concert, which was broadcast throughout Chile, he received a 12-minute standing ovation. Mr. Arrau donated his earnings from the concert to a scholarship fund for Latin American musicians that he set up in 1967 in his name. Teacher and Scholar
        Mr. Arrau was an active teacher. Two of his best-known pupils were Philip Lorenz and Garrick Ohlsson.
        A musical scholar as well as a pianist, Mr. Arrau supervised a performers' Urtext edition of Beethoven's piano sonatas, completed in 1978, and published by Edition Peters. In a Stagebill article published soon after the edition was completed, Mr. Arrau described his aims and methods.
        "The Peters editors and I had arguments over every little staccato mark," he said. "I kept the dynamic markings very strict and added my own only where there were none or where it was necessary for interpretative or performance reasons."
        He added: "Sometimes when I play, I get a sudden flash of new insight into the music. It's a strange and mystical feeling. I think some of the greatest interpretive miracles have happened in this manner."
        His recordings of the Beethoven sonatas and concertos, remade several times (most recently in the late 1980's), are highly regarded for their thoughtful, reverent qualities. Indeed, Mr. Arrau has long been a favorite of record collectors. Some of his earliest recordings have recently been reissued on compact disk by small historical labels. And Philips , the company for which he has recorded for over the last few decades, has announced a 25-CD "Arrau Collection," for release this year.
        Mr. Arrau was a handsome, dapper man, small in stature but a commanding presence. In interviews, he could be shy at first, but when he warmed to his interviewer -- as he did in Joseph Horowitz's "Conversations With Arrau," published in 1982 -- he could be insightful, amusing, and at home in a variety of subjects that included contemporary music, early instruments, primitive art (which he collected) and popular music of various eras, from the Paul Whiteman Band to the Beatles and even disco music. He was also extremely fond of films and played Liszt in a biography of the composer, "Sueno de Amor," filmed in Mexico City in 1935.
        Surviving Mr. Arrau are two children, Christopher Arrau and Carmen Reintsema, both of Denver; six grandchildren, and a nephew, Agustin Arrau.
        Correction:  June 27, 1991, Thursday
        An obituary on June 10 about the pianist Claudio Arrau misstated the date of his death. It was June 8, not June 9.
      