
        James Brindle, an advocate of prepaid medical group practice and health maintenance organizations, died on Thursday in Burlington County Hospital in Mount Holly, N.J. He was 83 years old and lived in Medford, N.J.
        He died of heart failure, his son, David, said.
        Mr. Brindle served as president of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York from 1963 to 1972, when he resigned in a dispute with the board of directors over reorganization of the prepaid health group.
        He was instrumental in the formation of the Group Health Association of America, a professional organization representing health maintenance organizations, and had lectured widely on medical economics at medical schools, including those at the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard University, Yale and the University of Kansas.
        Previously, he had served for 10 years as director of the Social Security department of the United Automobile Workers and from 1938 to 1952, with the exception of four years in the Army as a lieutenant colonel, had been with the Pennsylvania State Department of Public Assistance and left as director of the Bureau of Assistance.
        Mr. Brindle, a 1935 graduate of the University of Pittsburgh, had also been director of research and statistics for the Allegheny County juvenile court in Pittsburgh and had been assistant director of the Works Progress Administration's division for Pennsylvania.
        He was a member of many professional organizations, including the American Public Health Association, the American Public Welfare Association and the National Association of Social Workers. He had also been active with medical associations, including the Greater Detroit Area Hospital Council, the Visiting Nurse Associations of Detroit and the Technical Advisory Committee to Michigan Hospital Service.
        Besides his son David, of Kingston, Ontario, he is survived by his wife, Eleanor; a daughter, Ellen Jeronimo of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      