
        David Ruffin, an original member of the Temptations whose Gospel-charged baritone was featured on hits like "My Girl" and "Ain't Too Proud to Beg," died today of what appeared to be a drug overdose, the police said. He was 50.
        Detective Joan Duffy said a limousine pulled up to the University of Pennsylvania Hospital emergency room shortly before 3 A.M.
        The driver dropped off Mr. Ruffin, saying the singer had overdosed on drugs, Ms. Duffy said. Mr. Ruffin was pronounced dead at 3:55 A.M.
        Davis Eli Ruffin was born Jan. 18, 1941, in Meridian, Miss. Known professionally as David Ruffin, he joined the Temptations, formerly known as the Primes, in Detroit in the early 1960's, bringing a gospel style that blended with the group's harmonies.
        At that time the group, made up of Mr. Ruffin, Eddie Kendricks, Paul Williams, Otis Williams and Mel Franklin, was signed to Detroit's Motown label.
        The Temptations had their first pop hit with "The Way You Do the Things You Do," in 1964. In 1965, "My Girl," featuring Mr. Ruffin as lead singer, was the group's first No. 1 hit. The group's other hits that year were "It's Growing" and "Since I Lost My Baby." The string of hits continued in 1966 with "Get Ready" and "Ain't Too Proud to Beg." and in 1967 with "All I Need." Solo Career in 1968
        The Temptations recorded more than 10 hit singles, making them one of Motown's most successful groups.
        But Mr. Ruffin became unhappy with his status as one of five equal members and broke from the group in the summer of 1968 to pursue a solo career.
        His solo career began with the hit single "My Whole World Ended (The Moment You Left Me)." He briefly rejoined the group in 1982 to appear on the album "Reunion." In 1989, he and the other original members of the Temptations were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Ruffin's career was plagued by drug problems. His first stint in a rehabilitation center came in 1967. A 1987 cocaine arrest landed him in jail for repeated parole violations. He was convicted in May 1988 of misdemeanor possession of cocaine.
        He is survived by his stepmother, Earline Ruffin of Meridian, two brothers, Jimmy of London, and Quincy of Cincinnati and Orlando, Fla.; three daughters, Lynette Ruffin, Kim Little, and Nedra Ruffin all of Detroit, and three grandchildren. He is also survived by two sons, both named David. One is from Detroit and the other's hometown was not available.
      