
        H. N. Swanson, a screen literary agent who represented some of America's greatest writers in Hollywood for more than half a century, died on Friday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 91 years old.
        He died of complications from a stroke he suffered a month ago, said his stepson, Thomas J. Shanks.
        Harold Norling Swanson, known as Swanie, was a native of Centerville, Iowa, and a graduate of Grinnell College. He began his career as a writer and was a founder and the editor for eight years of College Humor, a Chicago-based monthly that became a showcase for new talent. In 1931, he moved to California and became a producer, making about a dozen films for RKO.
        Three years later, Mr. Swanson rented a building on Sunset Boulevard and became a pioneering literary agent. By 1939, when 110 screen writers were under contract to 20th Century Fox, he represented 80 of them.
        Among his early clients for screenplays were William Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Pearl Buck and Raymond Chandler. More recently, he represented the Hollywood efforts of writers like Joyce Carol Oates, Paul Theroux and Joseph Wambaugh. Among the scripts he sold were the 1946 version of "The Postman Always Rings Twice," "The Big Sleep" (1946), "Old Yeller" (1957), "Butterfield 8" (1960) and "The Mosquito Coast" (1986).
        The producer David Brown remarked last year that Mr. Swanson "had the ear and respect of the studio bosses."
        "You never needed a contract with him -- just a handshake," he said.
        Mr. Swanson once summarized his job thus: "Have a good story, know the market, know what people are buying, corner the buyer, make the sale." He worked full time until his recent illness and said last year: "Give me a good story and a phone, and I'll make the deal. That, I guarantee, I can do."
        His first wife, Ruth, died in 1971. Surviving are his second wife, Norma; his stepson, Thomas Shanks, who is the operations chief of H. N. Swanson Inc.; two stepdaughters, Janet Willingham of Cary, Ill., and Carol Galli of Joliet, Ill., and five grandchildren.
      