
        Mike M. Masaoka, a decorated combat veteran who worked to restore the rights of Americans of Japanese descent after World War II, died Wednesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Masaoka, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., had suffered from heart problems for several years and died of congestive heart failure, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Masaoka moved to Washington after the war as the legislative representative of the Japanese American Citizens League, later becoming its national executive secretary. He helped persuade Congress to pass the Evacuation Claims Act of 1948, which compensated Japanese-Americans for some of the losses they suffered as a result of internment during World War II.
        In 1950 he lobbied for the repeal of the Japanese Exclusion Act of 1924, which barred Japanese immigrants from becoming citizens and from owning land.
        In 1952 he formed his own consultant and public relations firm, Mike Masaoka Consultants, now Masaoka & Associates Inc. Over the years, the concern has represented the Japanese American Citizens League and a broad variety of enterprises, including agricultural interests and businesses in both the United States and Japan.
        Mr. Masaoka retired in 1988 but remained active as a consultant for not-for-profit causes and worked for the passage of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, in which Congress pledged $20,000 in restitution to each of the 60,000 surviving Amerians of Japanese descent who were interned.
        He was born in Fresno, Calif,, one of eight children of a farm couple from Hiroshima, Japan. The family later moved to Salt Lake City, where he graduated with honors from the University of Utah.
        In World War II, as many others of Japanese descent were being forced into internment camps, Mr. Masaoka enlisted in the Army as one of the original members of the 442d Regimental Combat Team, made up of Japanese-Americans. The combat group served in Italy and became the Army's most decorated unit. Among other honors, Mr. Masaoka was awarded the Bronze Star, the Legion of Merit and the Italian Cross for Military Valor.
        In 1972 he received a commendation from President Richard M. Nixon for his "exceptional service to others, in the finest American tradition."
        He is survived by his wife, the former Etsu Mineta, a sister of Representative Norman Y. Mineta, Democrat of California; a brother, Tad, of San Mateo, Calif.; a sister, Kiyoko Ito, of Chicago, and a grandchild.
      