
        Robert L. Purvin, a chemical engineer and energy consultant, died on Wednesday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 74 years old and lived in Mamaroneck.
        He died of prostate cancer, his wife, Maria-Lidia, said.
        As a consultant, he came up with creative solutions for seemingly unsolvable engineering problems. As a leader in establishing imports of liquified natural gas from North Africa, for example, he developed, in concert with others, the design mechanism for transporting natural gas by ship, using the vessel as a giant thermos bottle to move gas in quantity.
        In 1982 he founded Robert L. Purvin Associates, chemical engineering consultants in Manhattan. Before that he was president and chief executive officer of Barber Oil in Manhattan and chairman of Purvin and Lee, Inc., from 1975 to 1982.  Doctorate From M.I.T.
        From 1957 to 1962, he was executive vice president and director of Foster Grant Company, Inc., sun glass manufacturers in Leominster, Mass., where he increased the company's manufacture of plastics.
        In 1946 he founded Purvin & Gertz, Inc., in Dallas, a chemical engineering consulting firm with which he was associated until 1957.
        Dr. Purvin was a fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, a member of the American Chemical Society, the National Society of Professional Engineers, the Society of Gas Operators and the Independent Pretroleum Assocaiton of America. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
        He was born in Farmersville, Tex., and graduated with high honors from the University of Texas in 1937, and a bachelor of science with high honors in 1938. He received a doctorate in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1941. In 1969 he received the Distinguished Engineers Graduate Award from the University of Texas. From 1941 to 1946 he worked for Humble Oil in Baytown, Texas.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Maria-Lidia Chajecki; six children from earlier marriages: four sons, James Kenneth of Austin, Tex., Duane Emory of Westlake Village, Calif., Robert Jr. of San Diego, Calif., and Jeffrey Leon of Manhattan; two daughters, Laura Jill Zinner of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and Lisa Frances Oliner of New Haven, and 13 grandchildrn.
      