
        Joe Hamilton, a television producer whose variety series and specials included several starring Carol Burnett, his former wife, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62 years old.
        He died of cancer of the head and neck, his family said.
        Among the shows Mr. Hamilton produced were "The Garry Moore Show" in the late 1950's, for which he won the first of five Emmy Awards, "The Tim Conway Show" and "Mama's Family," the latter starring Vicki Lawrence, in the early 1980's.
        For Miss Burnett, whom he married in 1963 and from whom he was divorced in 1984, Mr. Hamilton produced several programs that won wide acclaim, including "Carol and Company," "Carol Plus 2" and two specials starring Miss Burnett and Julie Andrews -- "Julie and Carol at Carnegie Hall" and "Julie and Carol at Lincoln Center." Stage Plays for Television
        He also produced a television version of the musical "Once Upon a Mattress," in which Miss Burnett had gained stardom on the stage, and "6 Rms Riv Vu," starring Miss Burnett and Alan Alda. In 1974 he produced the stage play, "I Do! I Do!" in which Miss Burnett and Rock Hudson toured during the summer break from "The Carol Burnett Show."
        Joseph Henry Hamilton was born in Los Angeles and, after graduating from Loyola High School there, joined the Navy in 1946 an an aerial photographer. In 1948 he began studying at the Los Angeles Conservatory of Music and joined a singing group called "The Cheerleaders.'
        A short time later he became a composer and group vocalist with "The Skylarks," appearing on the "Dinah Shore Show." In 1958, at the age of 29 and a member of Bob Banner Associates, he became the youngest producer in television with "The Garry Moore Show."
        In the summer of 1960 Mr. Hamilton produced the mystery medical series "Diagnosis Unknown" for CBS television. He formed the first of several production companies and began turning out specials.
        Mr. Hamilton is survived by his third wife, the former Lee Troggio, whom he married earlier this year; eight children from his first marriage to the former Gloria Hartley: Kathleen, of Sacramento, Calif., Dana, of Redondo Beach, Calif.; Joseph, of Los Angeles; Jeffrey, of Poway, Calif.; John, of Manhattan Beach, Calif.; Nancy, of Sidona, Ariz., and Judith and Jennifer, both of San Diego; three daughters from his marriage to Miss Burnett: Carrie, Jody and Erin, all of Los Angeles; two sisters, Joanne Bellanger, of Los Angeles, and Elizabeth Cronin, of San Rafael, Calif., and 11 grandchildren.
      