
        Alfred Hassler, a lifelong pacifist and leader of the Fellowship of Reconciliation and a pioneer in the environmental movement, died on Wednesday at the Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 81 years old and lived in Monroe, N.Y.
        He died of cancer after a long illness, said Richard Deats, director of interfaith activities at the Fellowship of Reconciliation in Nyack, N.Y.
        Mr. Hassler was executive secretary of the United States Fellowship, an organization of religious pacifists, from 1960 until his retirement in 1974. He was also general secretary of the international Fellowship, with headquarters in Alkmaar, Holland, and president of the International Confederation for Disarmament and Peace.
        Influenced by Vietnamese Buddhist thought, Mr. Hassler founded the Dai Dong project, linking war, environmental problems and poverty, in 1970.
        Last year, on the 75th anniversary of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, Mr. Hassler, wrote that "the reality of modern weapons seems finally to have convinced the so-called great powers that nothing can be gained, and everything lost by going to war."
        Born in Allentown, Pa., he grew up in New York City, attending Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute and studying journalism at nights at Columbia University. He worked for The Leader-Observer in Woodhaven, Queens, and then for the American Baptist Publications in Philadelphia, before joining the staff of the Fellowship in 1942.
        Author of numerous anti-war books and artcles, his "Diary of a Self-Made Convict," published in 1954, is the story of his imprisonment for conscientious objection during World War II. He wrote his 1970 book, "Saigon U.S.A." after extensive visits to Vietnam.
        After retiring, Mr. Hassler and his wife helped found a retirement community, Almeria, in southern Spain, where they lived for over a decade.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Donald, of Monroe; two daughters, Laura, of Alkmaar, and Judith, of Clintondale, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      