
        Stan Getz, one of jazz's best known figures and most explosively imaginative tenor saxophonists, died yesterday afternoon at his home in Malibu, Calif.  He was 64 years old.
        The cause of death was liver cancer, said his secretary, Maggie Crim, who was at the house.
        Mr. Getz was an extraordinary improviser who over his career created his own sound and vocuablulary, winning 11 Grammys in the process. With a light but immense sound, Mr. Getz managed to capture both romanticism and a jazz toughness. Though he preferred ballads and medium tempo tunes, Mr. Getz was also a master of uptempo tunes, his solos always showing an innate logic. Just as important as being an improviser, Mr. Getz was even more a melodist. His ability to improvise skeins of beautiful melodies made him one of jazz's best-known musicians.
        "I loved Stan Getz," said Dizzy Gillespie, with whom Mr. Getz recorded several times in the 1950's. "His major contribution to jazz was melody. He's the best melody player in jazz. And an incredible soloist, but I loved his melodies. He's right up there with all of them, all the greats. You can't get any better than him."
        Mr. Getz was born in Philadelphia in 1927 and grew up in the Bronx. It was clear early that he was a natural musician. He started playing bass in junior high school, moved into bassoon his first year in high school and in a year was chosen for the All-City High School Orchestra. Though his conductor offered to get him a scholarship to Juilliard, he turned it down for a career in jazz. By the time he was 15, he was working professionally. That year, Mr. Getz went out on the road with Jack Teagarden's band. After moving to Los Angeles the same year, he replaced Art Pepper in Stan Kenton's orchestra, only to quit after Mr. Kenton said he thought the saxophonist Lester Young was too simple.
        Mr. Getz had became a disciple of Mr. Young, and that simplicity was a hallmark of his playing from then on. Mr. Getz never had much formal training, and he turned it to his advantage.
        "I was 20 when I first started playing with Stan," said Gary Burton, the vibraphonist. "One of the big things Stan taught me was how to play simply. He'd solo simply, and I'd be trying all kinds of complicated things, but the audience would be wiped out by what he'd do. I said to myself that I was missing something, and I spent three years learning from him the depth that's possible from music."  A Distinctive Sound
        In the 1940's Mr. Getz joined Jimmy Dorsey's band and Benny Goodman's band, with whom he recorded his first solo. In 1946, he made his first record under his own name, with Charlie Parker's rhythm section, which included Max Roach. "He was a young kid that was hanging around 52d Street," said Mr. Roach, "and he had phenomenal ears, and his own way of dealing with the music. I had a great deal of respect for him as musician, because he was an individual. And I loved him as one of the guys."
        By then, Mr. Getz's sound was becoming his own -- it became known as the Long Island Sound by musicians. Reedy but full, it would change into a strangled cry on command. It gave the impression of being fully relaxed, but Mr. Getz saved himself from sentimentality with his hard, acute rhythmic sense.
        "His sound was incredible," said Kenny Barron, the pianist, who worked with Mr. Getz for the last six years of his life. "Everything he played was first rate, and he was one of the last of the masters whom you could recognize by the first few notes -- it was that sound of his. And playing ballads, there's no one like him."
        In 1947, Mr. Getz, Zoot Sims, Herbie Steward and Serge Chaloff came together in Woody Herman's big band and created the famous Four Brothers sound. A year later, Mr. Getz recorded "Early Autumn," which made him well enough known to start recording and appearing under his own name with a now-legendary group that included Jimmy Raney, the guitarist.  Alcohol and Heroin Problems
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Getz solidified his reputation as a dramatic improviser with a distinct group sound. But in the middle of the decade, addicted to both alchohol and heroin, which he had started using at age 16, he was arrested after robbing a drugstore; Mr. Getz had recurring problems for the next several decades.
        His addictions did not seem to affect his playing. In 1957, he was recorded in a classic live performance that was released as "Jazz at the Opera House."
        To avoid legal problems, Mr. Getz moved to Denmark in 1958, and when he returned to the United States three years later, he found that he had been left behind. The innovations of Miles Davis and Ornette Coleman had shaken the jazz world. Mr. Getz embarked on mastering the new idioms, with a discipline and curiosity he never lost.  He recorded another masterwork, "Focus," an album arranged by Eddie Sauter, the composer. He courted young musicians, including Chick Corea, Gary Burton, Tony Williams, who could challenge him with new harmonies and rhythms.
        In 1962, Mr. Getz and Charlie Byrd recorded a set of Brazilian tunes that were released as an album called "Jazz Samba." It not only turned Mr. Getz into a pop star but also put jazz firmly on the pop charts.
        In 1980 Mr. Getz left his second wife, Monica, to whom he had been married for 24 years. The divorce was granted in 1987 after a long and particularly bitter battle. Ms. Getz continued to try to have it overturned, last year taking it to the Supreme Court, which declined to hear the case.
        For many critics and fans, the 1980's saw Mr. Getz in a new phase of his career, turning out several well-received recordings, including "Anniversary." In 1987, Mr. Getz was found to have cancer; he kept performing and recorded several albums in the last few months of his life.
        He is survived by three sons, Stephen, David and Nicholas, and two daughters, Beverly McGovern and Pamela Raynor.
      