
        Bernard Chaus, the founder, chairman and chief executive of Bernard Chaus Inc., one of the largest producers of women's sportswear and dresses, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a subdural hematoma, a business associate said.
        The Brooklyn-born Mr. Chaus rose in classic Seventh Avenue tradition from showroom salesman to head of his own manufacturing business, developing clothes bearing his own name.
        He pioneered the concept of selling moderately priced sportswear on the main floors of department stores, as an impulse purchase. His Manhattan company sold sportswear to major department stores in the United States, Canada and Europe. Last year, the company, which has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 1986, recorded sales of $290 million.  Traveled a Year by Motorcycle
        Mr. Chaus was energetic in both business and sports, and in the early 1970's he and his second wife, Josephine, spent almost a year traveling by motorcycle around the United States,
        He used the hiatus to consider a new career, after Joanna Blouses, a company in which he had been a principal, was sold to another concern. After obtaining financial backing, he formed the company that bears his name.
        He started in the garment industry at the age of 16, soon became a salesman and at 29 was a principal in a small blouse company.
        When it was merged into Genesco Inc., four years later, he retired. After a year he became a partner at Joanna Blouses, then retired again after he sold it five years later. When he again unretired to start his last company, he decided that working women wanted colorful, moderately priced separates that could be easily coordinated, a concept that made the company successful.
        He was an active supporter of the Heart Research Foundation and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation.
        Mr. Chaus is survived by his wife, Josephine, the company's vice chairwoman and president, who will be its acting chief executive; three sons, Jeff, of Upper Saddle River, N.J., and Ariel and Aaron of Manhattan; two daughters, Merrill Hertzenberg of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Ilya Hyatt of Guttenberg, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      