
        Armina Marshall, an actress, a playwright and a co-administrator of the Theater Guild whose career on Broadway spanned more than half a century, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96 years old.
        She died of heart failure, said her son, Philip Langner.
        For nearly four decades beginning in the early 1920's, Miss Marshall, together with her husband, Lawrence Langner, and Theresa Helburn, co-founders of the Theater Guild, guided the subscription company through its glory years as one of the most successful producers of Broadway plays.
        Miss Marshall and Mr. Langner, who had been married 37 years when he died in 1962, were the co-authors of seven plays, three of which made it to Broadway, including the 1933 hit "Pursuit of Happiness."
        Miss Marshall, who was part American Indian, was born on the Cherokee Strip in what was then the Oklahoma Territory and spent her early school years in Pawnee, where her father was the sheriff. The family moved to the West Coast, and she attended the University of California at Los Angeles and taught school in Brawley, Calif., while playing small parts at local theaters.
        She moved to New York to attend the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and in 1922 was introduced to Mr. Langner, a patent lawyer.
        Miss Marshall was accepted into the Theater Guild and acted in several plays in succeeding years. In 1925 she and Mr. Langner were married. With Miss Helburn, a drama critic and director, the Langners built the Theater Guild into a Broadway powerhouse that by the time of Miss Helburn's death in 1959 had produced 190 attractions in New York City, in nine other cities across the country and in London.
        The guild brought dozens of memorable productions to Broadway. Perhaps the most celebrated was "Oklahoma!" in 1943. The show, which blended narrative and song with ballet, transformed American musical theater almost overnight.
        Among the outstanding playwrights whose work the guild produced were George Bernard Shaw, Eugene O'Neill, S. N. Behrman, Robert Sherwood and Maxwell Anderson. Actors who were guild regulars ranged from James O'Neill, Eugene's father, to Eva Le Gallienne, Claudette Colbert, Humphrey Bogart, Judith Anderson, Shirley Booth and Judy Holliday. Alfred Lunt and Lynne Fontanne acted together in 19 guild-produced plays, Mr. Lunt alone in 4 others and Miss Fontanne alone in 2.
        Miss Marshall was the associate director of "Theater Guild of the Air" for its eight-year run on radio and of "The U.S. Steel Hour" for eight years on television.
        Miss Marshall's theatrical interests extended well beyond the guild. In World War II she was a founder of the Stage Door Canteen in Washington. She was also a founder of the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., and a director of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, the American Theater Wing and the Actors Fund, with which she was active until five years ago.
        In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, Miss Marshall is survived by two granddaughters.
        Correction:  July 23, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary headline yesterday about Armina Marshall, an actress and playwright, misstated her connection with the Theater Guild. She was a co-administrator, not a co- founder.
      