
        Carol Laise, an American Ambassador who was the wife of an American Ambassador and the first woman to be an Assistant Secretary of State, died yesterday at her home in Dummerston, Vt. She was 73 years old.
        Miss Laise died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        She was named Ambassador to Nepal by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966 and remained in the post until 1973. In January 1974 she married Ambassador at Large Ellsworth Bunker, a 79-year-old widower, in Katmandu, Nepal. She kept her maiden name professionally.
        It was the first marriage between two American Ambassadors. Miss Laise was a close friend of Mr. Bunker's first wife, Harriet Allen Bunker, who died in 1964, and it was Miss Laise's first marriage.
        For nearly six years after their marriage the couple saw each other only once a month when Ambassador Laise would take a plane provided by President Johnson and fly to Saigon, where Ambassador Bunker was trying to stabilize the situation in South Vietnam. Named Director General
        In October 1973 she returned to Washington and was sworn in as Assistant Secretary of State in charge of the Bureau of Public Affairs, the first woman to hold so high a post in the department. Before her appointment as Ambassador to Nepal she had been director of the Office of South Asian Affairs,
        In 1974 Miss Laise became director general of the Foreign Service, the highest nonpolitical job in the Foreign Service, a post she held until she retired in 1977.
        Caroline Clendening Laise began her Government career in 1940 as an occupational coder for the Civil Service Commission. In 1946 she went to the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, and in 1948 joined the State Department.
        From 1956 to 1961 she was an adviser to American delegates to various United Nations agencies and in 1962 was made deputy director of the Office of South Asian Affairs with responsibilty for diplomatic relations with Afghanistan, Ceylon, Nepal, India and Pakistan.
        In comparing the economic problems of Nepal with those of India, she said in a 1966 interview with Ann Terry Pincus of The New York Post, "You could explain that Nepal is like Appalachia, and India has the problems of Harlem." An Adviser in New Delhi
        When Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey went to India and Pakistan in 1965, Miss Laise went along as his adviser. In the 1962-63 Chinese invasion of India, Ambassador John Kenneth Galbraith sent for Miss Laise for advice and she spent about a year in New Delhi.
        She was a winner in 1965 of the annual Federal Women's Award for outstanding contributions by women in government service, and in 1973 she received the Career Service Award of the National Civil Service League.
        Miss Laise, a native of Winchester, Va., was a graduate of American University and received an M.A. in political science from George Washington University.
        Her husband, Ambassador Bunker, died in 1984.
        She is survived by a brother, Frederick Laise of Santa Fe, N.M.; two stepsons, Samuel Bunker of Dummerston, Vt., and John Bunker of Wheatland, Wy.; and a stepdaughter, Ellen Bunker of Tucson, Ariz.
      