
        Mr. Rizzo was one of those seemingly larger-than-life figures, destined to be hero to some and villain to others.
        One view was that the former Police Commissioner and two-term Mayor was the last bastion against threats to middle-class residents of the city's row-house neighborhoods.
        The other view was that Mr. Rizzo was a barely educated former police officer who used a hard line on crime and tactics bordering on the dictatorial to suppress opposition and keep blacks out of middle-class neighborhoods. 'Tough Cop' Image
        That he was a "tough cop" -- an appellation that particularly pleased him -- no one debates. One night during the upheavals of the 1960's, Commissioner Rizzo left a black-tie affair, tucked a nightstick in his cummerbund, and led what he called "my men, my army" to break up a riot.
        As Mayor, from 1972 to 1980, he was warm and generous with friends and associates but given to sudden rages in the presence of others.
        When, in 1983, Mr. Rizzo made his first attempt to return to City Hall, he saw the need to cast himself as the "new Rizzo," avoiding racially divisive statements. He was defeated in the Democratic primary by W. Wilson Goode, who went on to win election as the city's first black Mayor.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Rizzo seemed to embrace controversy. "I'm going to make Attila the Hun look like a faggot," he once told a newspaper reporter.
        Francis Lazarro Rizzo was born Oct. 23, 1920, son of a former tailor who had emigrated from Chiaravialle Centrale in southern Italy and had married Theresa Erminio of Philadelphia. Mr. Rizzo's father, Ralph, became a police officer in his adopted city -- idolized by his son and respected by neighbors on South Rosewood, the narrow street in "South Philly" where the Rizzos lived.  High School Dropout
        Frank Rizzo dropped out of high school and served in the pre-war Navy for a year until incipient diabetes forced him to accept a medical discharge. In 1943, he followed his father onto the police force. It was the beginning of a 28-year career that would take him to the top of the department, and beyond.
        His first press notice came within a year, when he received severe burns helping to put out a fire. Seven years later, he was dubbed "the Cisco Kid" after he threw himself, all 6 feet 2 inches and 240 pounds, into a street fight between two gangs, quickly bringing order.
        Several times during his career, he was charged with beating suspects in his custody with a blackjack. The charges were always dismissed.
        Mr. Rizzo became commissioner in 1967. Supporters note that in his five-year tenure, Philadelphia had the lowest crime rate of the nation's 10 largest cities.
        His detractors believe the price for that order was intolerable. Mr. Rizzo personally led Saturday night round-ups of homosexuals and staged a series of raids on coffee houses and cafes -- saying they were drug dens. No indictments resulted from the raids.
        In 1972, shortly before he resigned to run for Mayor, police officers deeply embittered Philadelphia blacks by raiding the Black Panthers headquarters, herding them into the street and stripping them naked.
        "Imagine the big Black Panthers with their pants down," Mr. Rizzo said at the time.  A National Reputation
        Mr. Rizzo's iron hand in running the 7,000-member department and his highly publicized and questionable tactics in policing the city brought him a national reputation as an advocate of "law and order." He counted on that when, in 1971, while still commissioner, he announced his mayoral candidacy.
        The following November, he defeated W. Thatcher Longstreth, a Republican, by nearly 50,000 votes, with liberal and moderate Democrats voting Republican, and conservative Republicans voting Democratic.
        Four years later, Mr. Rizzo was re-elected. He would later list among his accomplishments the start of a commuter-train tunnel through Center City, a high-speed rail line to the airport, a new city hospital and the construction of several major hotels. Throughout his tenure, however, blacks regularly complained that they were being cheated of services and outright repression.
        Mr. Rizzo very much wanted to stay on as Mayor, but the City Charter barred anyone from serving three successive terms.
        In 1983, when Mr. Rizzo sought to regain his old job, he was easily defeated in the Democratic primary by Mr. Goode.  Switch to Republican
        In December 1986, Mr. Rizzo switched to the Republican Party, and the bitter campaign ended with Mr. Rizzo losing 49 percent to Mr. Goode's 51 percent.
        A year later, Mr. Rizzo began a highly successful but short-lived career, becoming host of an afternoon talk show at WCAU-FM. Within eight months, he had pulled the CBS affiliate's ratings among people over 24 years of age from 13th to an overwhelming No. 1 in the Philadelphia market.
        Mr. Rizzo is survived by his wife, Carmella, and two grown children, Joanna and Frank Jr.
        A viewing will be held Thursday, starting at 5 P.M., at the Cathedral of Saints Peter and Paul. Cardinal Anthony J. Bevilacqua will say mass at 10 A.M. Friday, and the burial will be at Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Cheltenham Township.
      