
        A. Raymond Brooks, the last surviving ace among American fighter pilots in World War I, died on July 17 at his home in Summit, N.J. He was 95 years old.
        Military aviation was still in an embryonic stage in 1916 when Mr. Brooks, then a 21-year-old student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, joined a small group of Americans in Toronto being trained by the Royal Flying Corps.
        When he got to France in 1918 he joined the 139th Aero Squadron and climbed into a Spad biplane for the first time. Like his fellow pilots, he had purchased his own uniform and boots, and he had named his plane Smith for the Massachusetts college where his fiancee was a student.
        "I was a pretty hot pilot, if I do say so," he said later. "But frankly, when you came down in those rough fields the plane could get pretty beat up. I didn't want Ruth's name on my plane, like a lot of the pilots did with their girls' names, so I called mine 'Smith.' If my plane got hurt, I didn't want anyone to say, 'Oh, Ruthie's down with a busted tail.' " Flew 120 Missions
        Within five months of his arrival in France Mr. Brooks had become an ace by shooting down five German planes. Later he added a sixth. Altogether he flew 120 missions in four different planes. The first Smith was discarded, the second ended up in a shell hole, the third carried him through a nearly fatal flight and Smith IV is on display at the National Air and Space Museum at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
        Mr. Brooks ended his World War I service as a captain and came back to the United States, where he married Ruth Connery. He flew with the Army Air Reserve and worked for the United States Commerce Department surveying air routes and supervising the installation of beacons to help pilots navigate the Appalachian Mountains from Virginia to Pennsylvania.
        As a scientist and engineer for Bell Laboratories from 1928 to 1960 he helped develop radiotelephone communications and to perfect early radar. He maintained an active interest in flying into his 90's. Three years ago, at 92, he flew in a "breezie," a small plane where the pilot sits out in front in the open air, at an air show in the Midwest.
        "They can't keep me out of anything that takes me up into the air," he said then. "I've flown gliders, breezies, hydroplanes and ultralights. I take every chance I can to go to hot-air balloon festivals."
        His wife died in 1967 after 47 years of marriage. There are no immediate survivors.
      