
        Isaac Bashevis Singer, whose vivid evocations of Jewish life in his native Poland and of his experiences as an immigrant in America won him the Nobel Prize in Literature, died yesterday. He was 87 years old and lived in Surfside, Fla.
        Mr. Singer died after several strokes, said his wife, Alma.
        Mr. Singer's stories and novels, written in Yiddish, often dealt with his upbringing as a rabbi's son in Warsaw and in a small town in eastern Poland and were redolent of the mysticism of Jewish folklore. But he also wrote about loneliness in drab cafeterias, worldliness in Miami Beach and chance acquaintanceship on the sidewalks of upper Broadway.
        Throughout his career, he wrote about human passions and high emotions.
        "God gave us so many emotions and such strong ones," he once said in an interview. "Every human being, even if he is an idiot, is a millionaire in emotions." He Stuck With Yiddish
        Even after decades in the United States Mr. Singer kept using Yiddish for the long succession of short stories, novels, memoirs and children's books he wrote.
        Most of his fiction first appeared in Yiddish in The Jewish Daily Forward, a newspaper in New York City that is now The Jewish Forward. It has had an English-language sister publication since last year.
        But Mr. Singer's writing reached a large international public through translations into English and many other languages. Its worldwide appeal was noted in the citation that accompanied his Nobel Prize in 1978. The citation praised his "impassioned narratives, which, with roots in a Polish-Jewish cultural tradition, bring universal human conditions to life."
        The New York Times critic Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote that this was "another way of saying what admirers have always observed about Singer: that he has made of the East European Jew an exemplar of the suffering modern man who has been exiled from his divine inheritance."
        Mr. Singer's more than 30 books ranged from the novel "Satan in Goray," which came out in 1935, to another novel, "Scum," which was serialized in The Jewish Daily Forward in 1967 and published in book form this year. They include the much-praised "A Crown of Feathers" (1973) and other short-story collections. Many of his stories also appeared in The New Yorker.
        Mr. Singer was a modest man with an unassuming and unliterary style of life: he liked to wear plain business suits and he preferred dairy restaurants to writers' bars. But his life was enlivened by his passion for metaphysics, his eye for a pretty ankle and his occasional flair for the dramatic; when he gave his Nobel Prize lecture in December 1978, he startled the dignitaries in the Stockholm auditorium by breaking into Yiddish.
        In awarding him the prize, he said, the Swedish Academy was also honoring "a loshon fun golus, ohn a land, ohn grenitzen, nisht gshtitzt fun kein shum meluchoch" -- "a language of exile, without a land, without frontiers, not supported by any government."
        In the speech, a deft summary of what he thought about his work, Mr. Singer also voiced his long-held view that one main duty of the writer was to keep the reader interested. 'An Entertainer Of the Spirit'
        "The storyteller of our time, as in any other time, must be an entertainer of the spirit in the full sense of the word, not just a preacher of social and political ideals," he declared, speaking in English.
        "Nonetheless, it is also true that the serious writer of our time must be deeply concerned about the problems of his generation." These, he said, included the decline of the power of religion and the weakening of the family.
        That being the case, he said, the world had much to learn from the Jews of his childhood world, from "their way of thinking, their way of bringing up children, their finding happiness where others see nothing but misery and humiliation."
        Central to that way of life, he said, was the Yiddish language with its "quiet humor and gratitude for every day of life, every crumb of success, each encounter of love." And in a figurative way, he told his international audience, "Yiddish is the wise and humble language of us all, the idiom of the frightened and hopeful humanity."
        Mr. Singer was one of several 20th-century Yiddish writers, including his older brother, I. J. Singer, Chaim Grade and Sholem Asch, who carried on the tradition of Mendele Mokher Sforim and other great Yiddish novelists of the 1800's.
        Isaac Singer's skill in using the language was a matter of pride with him, so much so, the story goes, that one day in the 30's, when he was a new, low- ranking contributor to The Jewish Daily Forward, he flew into a rage when an editor tried to give him advice on writing.
        "Don't try to teach me Yiddish!" Mr. Singer shouted. "I know how to write Yiddish!"
        His pride was understandable, because he came from a learned family; his two grandfathers and his father were rabbis, and his father, Pinchos Menachem Singer, wrote books on religious themes.
        Isaac Bashevis Singer was born on July 14, 1904, to Bathsheba Zylberman Singer in Radzymin, a flour-milling town 15 miles northeast of Warsaw. When he was 4, his family moved to Warsaw, and his father set up a rabbinical court in the shabby building where they lived.
        As a boy, Isaac received a traditional Jewish schooling and spent time with his maternal grandmother in the small town of Bilgoraj, in the countryside of eastern Poland. His parents wanted him to be a rabbi, and he obliged them by enrolling at the Tachkemoni Rabbinical Seminary in Warsaw. Religious Studies To Secular Writing
        But in his early 20's Mr. Singer made a momentous decision: he would drop his religious studies and become a secular writer. In taking the step, he was greatly influenced by his older brother, whose full name was Israel Joseph Singer.
        I. J. Singer, who won fame as the author of "The Brothers Ashkenazi," was a dyed-in-the-wool rationalist. He had been filling Isaac Singer's ears since boyhood with arguments against religious faith. Now, in manhood, I. J. Singer had turned to writing short stories with a strongly secular outlook.
        Wanting to follow in his brother's footsteps, Isaac got a foot in the door of the Warsaw literary world by working as a proofreader at Literarishe Bleter, a Yiddish literary magazine.
        Soon he began having book reviews and short stories published. His first work was in Hebrew, but then he made another momentous decision. Finding that ancient tongue confining -- "Nobody spoke it where I lived," he recalled -- he began writing in Yiddish.
        In 1932, Mr. Singer became an editor of the Yiddish literary journal Globus, which published his first novel in installments. The work was "Satan in Goray," which drew in part on the Jewish small-town life he had experienced in Bilgoraj. He was also the author of a Yiddish translation of Thomas Mann's "Buddenbrooks."
        In 1935, having become alarmed at the growing menace of Nazism and the worsening conditions among Polish Jews, Mr. Singer set sail for the United States, where his brother had settled. At first he was lonely and gloomy about the state of Yiddish in the New World.
        "My first impression was that here Yiddish literature was dead," he later recalled. "It took me five years to convince myself that Yiddish is still very much alive."
        But he soon made friends, and he began contributing to The Jewish Daily Forward, remaining on the staff for more than a decade, beginning in 1935. In 1940, he married Alma Haimann, a stylish emigree from Germany, and he became a United States citizen in 1943. Novels Published In Serial Form
        It was The Jewish Daily Forward that first serialized his next book, "The Family Moskat," which, like "Buddenbrooks," was a sweeping novel of Central European family life; it was about the decline of a well-to-do Jewish family in Poland during the 50 years before World War II. An executive of The Forward, Harold Ostroff, recalled in 1990 that over the years all of Mr. Singer's novels first appeared in that newspaper in serial form.
        "The Family Moskat" appeared in book form in Yiddish in 1945, dedicated to the memory of I. J. Singer, who had died in 1944. An English translation was published in 1950 and received enthusiastic reviews. In The New York Times, Richard Plant wrote that from its pages "rises a sense of life -- boundless, frustrated, but undying."
        "The scene he depicts is gone forever," Mr. Plant said, "and his novel may well be one of its monuments. Still, the novel, reminiscent of Turgenev and Balzac, stands because of its narrative qualities, its completely credible characters, its throbbing vitality."
        The years that followed passed quietly but productively. In 1957, a short- story collection, "Gimpel the Fool," appeared; in 1960, a novel, "The Magician of Lublin"; in 1961 another short-story collection, "The Spinoza of Market Street.".
        Mr. Singer's fourth novel, "The Slave," an allegory about a pious Jewish teacher in 17th-century Poland, came out in 1962, and was praised by Orville Prescott in The Times as "a sort of Jewish 'Pilgrim's Progress,' " that was "nobly conceived and well written."
        When another collection of Singer stories, "Short Friday," was published in 1964, Mr. Prescott said, "His stories sound as if they were being told by the village storyteller" and called him "a natural storyteller who likes to cloak his moral earnestness in a garment of folk simplicity."
        Two years later, in a volume of reminiscences entitled "In My Father's Court," Mr. Singer wrote about Jewish life in Eastern Europe during his childhood and recalled how his own sensibilities and intellect had developed.
        Two linked novels, "The Manor" and "The Estate," and another story collection, "The Seance," came out during the next three years, and in 1970 there appeared "A Friend of Kafka," another story collection. "Enemies: A Love Story," which was the first of Mr. Singer's novels to be set in the United States, came out in 1970. It was about Jewish survivors of the Holocaust who felt guilty about having survived.
        Mr. Singer's 1973 collection, "A Crown of Feathers," won particularly high praise. Writing in The Times Book Review, Alfred Kazin called him "an extraordinary writer," and said, "This new collection of stories, like so much that he writes, represents the most delicate imaginative splendor, wit, mischief and, not least, the now unbelievable life that Jews once lived in Poland."
        The 1976 collection "Passions" included a number of stories that openly described Mr. Singer's experiences as a middle-aged writer, and the 1978 novel "Shosha" incorporated aspects of his life: refugee, rabbi's son, writer for children and journalist.  A Recurring Theme: 'The Art of Loving'
        In an author's note in the 1979 collection "Old Love," Mr. Singer observed:
        "The love of the old and the middle-aged is a theme that is recurring more and more in my works of fiction. Literature has neglected the old and their emotions. The novelists never told us that in love, as in other matters, the young are just beginners and that the art of loving matures with age and experience."
        By then Mr. Singer, though known for thriftiness, was rich in fame and comfortably well off in worldly goods. Dressed in his somber suits, he had long since become a familiar figure in various spots around New York: feeding the pigeons near his apartment, eating in his favorite vegetarian cafeterias and passing the time of day at The Jewish Daily Forward's East Side offices, where he startled friends now and then by doing some writing on a pad while he was talking with them.
        In his novels as well as in his stories, Mr. Singer avoided what he regarded as the dangers of intellectualism. "The very essence of literature is the war between emotion and intellect," he told an interviewer. "When literature becomes too intellectual -- when it begins to ignore the passions, the emotions -- it becomes sterile, silly and actually without any substance."
        Another perennial theme in Mr. Singer's fiction is betrayal of one kind or another, a subject that fascinated him. "I would say a great part of human history is a history of self-betrayal and betrayal of others," he said in the late 70's. In his fiction, Mr. Singer looked unblinkingly at betrayal and many other evils, and in conversation would express great admiration for Schopenhauer, the gloomy 19th-century German philosopher.
        "What I admire in Schopenhauer is his courage to be a pessimist," Mr. Singer once said. "Because most of the philosophers try, one way or another, to paint an orderly universe and to give people hopes which are false and nothing more than wishful thinking. Schopenhauer had the rare courage to say that we are living in a world of evil."
        Nonetheless, Mr. Singer maintained a belief in God, although, he noted, "I have my doubts about revelation; I have no proof whatever that God reveals Himself or tells us how to behave. But since I believe in God's existence and since God created man and formed his brain, I believe also that there must be something of the divine in men's ideas about Him -- even if they are far from being adequate."
        Mr. Singer said his own faith fluctuated:
        "I have moments when I almost deny God," he said. "But I also have moments of exultation. When I'm in trouble, I pray. In spite of the fact that I pray to God, I also sin against God.  The Comic Side Of Humanity
        "Religion is not a simple thing, and neither is love. You can love a woman and you can betray her. You can love her, quarrel with her and hate her. Everything in us is human."
        In humanity, as Mr. Singer perceived it, there was much that was deeply comic. Even his own vegetarianism he saw in a humorous light; it was, he explained, "not for my health, but for the health of the chickens."
        Another abiding theme in his fiction was human sexuality, which was only natural, because, as he said in an interview:
        "In sex and in love, human character is revealed more than anywhere else. Let's say a man can play a very strong man -- a big man, a dictator. But in sex he may become reduced to a child or to an imp."
        Mr. Singer was particularly fond of talking, joking and writing about the contradictions in the character of his fellow Jewish intellectuals. "The intellectual Jew is so restless that he is almost everything simultaneously," he once observed.
        Yet Mr. Singer did not think of himself as a writer of specifically Jewish works:
        "When I sit down to write a story, I'm not saying to myself I'm going to write a Jewish story. Just like when a Frenchman builds a house in France, he doesn't say he's going to build a French house. He's going to build a house for his wife and children, a convenient house. Since it's built in France, it comes out French.
        "When I sit down to write a story, I will write the kind of stories which I write. It's true that since I know the Jewish people best and since I know the Yiddish language best, so my heroes, the people of my stories, are always Jewish and speak Yiddish. I am at home with these people. But just the same, I'm not just writing about them because they speak Yiddish and are Jewish. I'm interested in the same things you are interested in and the Japanese are interested in -- in love, and in treachery, and in hopes and in disappointments." Declined to Return To Polish Homeland
        Mr. Singer chose not to revisit his Polish homeland after World War II and set down his reasons in 1980, in declining a Polish literary group's invitation to a writers' gathering in Warsaw:
        "It would be for me a terrible strain to see Poland without my people, without those who were close to me and who have perished for sins they have never committed. I just don't have the strength to go through this ordeal at the present time and in my advanced age.
        "I am afraid I will have to continue to write about the Poland that I remember. After all, literature is about the past."
        Yet opinions varied as to the degree of historicity in Mr. Singer's fiction. The author Cynthia Ozick, reviewing "The Collected Stories of Isaac Bashevis Singer" in The Times in 1982, said it was a misapprehension to view him as "the recorder of a lost world, the preserver of a vanished sociology."
        "Singer is an artist and transcendent inventor, not a curator," she went on, arguing that "the Jewish townlets that truly were" in the Europe of the past "are only seeds for his febrile conflagrations."
        Though often somber, Mr. Singer sometimes took a downright lighthearted view of life, and of his own mortality. Once, at a dinner party, after he had become famous, he noticed that other guests stared at him when he dipped hungrily into his soup the instant it was served.
        "In the next life I will be a pig," he said, to general laughter.
        "And the other animals will ask me what I was in the previous life," he went on. "I will tell them I was a writer, and they will say, 'That's what all the pigs claim.' " National Book Award And Other Honors
        Mr. Singer won a National Book Award in 1970 for one of his children's books, "A Day of Pleasure," which was a memoir of his boyhood days in Warsaw. He won another National Book Award in 1974 in the adult-fiction category for "A Crown of Feathers." Among his other honors was the highest award of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, its Gold Medal, in 1989.
        Some of his writings were adapted for stage and screen, with mixed results. A short story was the basis for a play, "Teibele and Her Demon," by Mr. Singer and Eve Friedman, which opened in 1979 at the Brooks Atkinson Theater and closed after two dozen performances. Written for the stage, "A Play for the Devil" won praise when it was performed Off Broadway in 1984.
        The 1983 Hollywood musical "Yentl," based on Mr. Singer's story "Yentl, the Yeshiva Boy," and starring Barbra Streisand, got mixed reviews including a negative reaction from Mr. Singer himself. "I did not find artistic merit, neither in the adaptation, nor in the directing," he wrote in 1984. "There was too much singing, much too much."
        A 1972 novel by Mr. Singer, "Enemies, a Love Story," had a happier fate as a 1989 movie with the same title, directed and produced by Paul Mazursky. Janet Maslin, in The Times, called it a "deeply felt, fiercely evocative adaption" of the "brilliantly enigmatic novel" about Holocaust survivors in the New York of 1949.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son from an earlier marriage, Israel Zamir, of Gilboa, Israel, a writer and translator, and four grandchildren. DEPICTING MEMORIES, DREAMS, ILLUSIONS AND FATE
        I wandered over the land, and good people did not neglect me. After many years I became old and white; I heard a great deal, many lies and falsehoods, but the longer I lived the more I understood that there were really no lies. Whatever doesn't really happen is dreamed at night. It happens to one if it doesn't happen to another, tomorrow if not today, or a century hence if not next year. What difference can it make? Often I heard tales of which I said, "Now this is a thing that cannot happen." But before a year had elapsed I heard that it actually had come to pass somewhere.
        Going from place to place, eating at strange tables, it often happens that I spin yarns -- improbable things that could never have happened -- about devils, magicians, windmills, and the like. The children run after me, calling, "Grandfather, tell us a story." Sometimes they ask for particular stories, and I try to please them. A fat young boy once said to me, "Grandfather, it's the same story you told us before." The little rogue, he was right. -- "Gimpel the Fool," story
        . . .
        "Jacques, yesterday I read your Kafka's 'Castle.' Interesting, very interesting, but what is he driving at? It's too long for a dream. Allegories should be short."
        Jacques Kohn quickly swallowed the food he was chewing. "Sit down," he said. "A master does not have to follow the rules."
        "There are some rules even a master must follow. No novel should be longer than 'War and Peace.' Even 'War and Peace' is too long. If the Bible consisted of eighteen volumes, it would long since have been forgotten."
        "The Talmud has 36 volumes, and the Jews have not forgotten it."
        "Jews remember too much. That is our misfortune. It is two thousand years since we were driven out of the Holy Land, and now we are trying to get back in. Insane, isn't it? If our literature would only reflect this insanity, it would be great. But our literature is uncannily sane." -- "A Friend of Kafka," story
        . . .
        Because I have now lived in this country longer than in Poland, I have developed roots here too. Just the same, my American stories deal only with Yiddish-speaking immigrants from Poland so as to ensure that I know well not only their present way of life but their roots -- their culture, history, ways of thinking and expressing themselves. In spite of these self-imposed limitations, I feel that my field is large and my responsibilities even larger. Some of these people have helped to build Warsaw and New York and are now helping to build Tel Aviv. They lived in the midst of almost all the social movements of our time. Their illusions were the illusions of mankind. The vandals who murdered millions of these people have destroyed a treasure of individuality that no literature dare try to bring back. -- "A Crown of Feathers and Other Stories," author's note
        . . .
        This book tells the story of a family and of a rabbinical court that were so close together it was hard to tell where one ended and the other began. The rabbinical court, the Beth Din, is an ancient institution among the Jews. It started when Jethro counseled Moses to "provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness . . . and let them judge the people at all seasons." There is a direct line between the Beth Din of today and the Talmudic annotators, Geonim, Princes, Amoraim, Tannaim, Men of the Great Synagogue, and Sanhedrin. The Beth Din was a kind of blend of a court of law, synagogue, house of study, and, if you will, psychoanalyst's office where people of troubled spirit could come to unburden themselves. That such a mixture was not only feasible but necessary was proved by the continued existence of the Beth Din over many generations.
        It is my firmest conviction that the court of the future will be based on the Beth Din, provided the world goes morally forward instead of backward. Though the Beth Din is rapidly disappearing, I believe it will be reinstated and evolve into a universal institution. The concept behind it is that there can be no justice without godliness, and that the best judgment is one accepted by all the litigants with good will and trust in divine power. The opposite of the Beth Din are all institutions that employ force, whether of the right or the left.
        The Beth Din could exist only among a people with a deep faith and humility, and it reached its apex among the Jews when they were completely bereft of worldly power and influence. The weapon of the judge was the handkerchief the litigants touched to signify their acceptance of the judgment. I have not attempted to idealize the Beth Din or to endow it with conditions and moods that were not a part of my direct experience. The Beth Din not only differed in every generation, but every Rabbi who participated in it colored it with his character and personality. Only that which is individual can be just and true.
        At times I think that the Beth Din is an infinitesimal example of the celestial council of justice, God's judgment, which the Jews regard as absolute mercy. -- "In My Father's Court," a memoir
        . . .
        It was sweltering outside, but the cafeteria was cool. During the day, between three and five, it was almost empty. I took a table near the wall, drank coffee, nibbled a piece of apple cake, and looked into an occult magazine. In the letters to the editor, a woman wrote that her cat had been run over by a car and she had buried it but still it came to visit her every night. The woman gave her name and her address in a Texas village. There was sincerity in the letter; surely it could not have been made up. But does the astral body really exist? I wondered. And do animals possess it, too? If so, my whole philosophy must be revised.
        Before I could undertake so large an order, I went to the counter and got another cup of cofee. "One reality has nothing to do with the other," I said to myself. -- "The Third One," story
        . . .
        When people come together -- let's say they come to a little party or something -- you always hear them discuss character. They will say this one has a bad character, this one has a good character, this one is a fool, this one is a miser. Gossip makes the conversation. They all analyze character. It seems that the analysis of character is the highest human entertainment. And literature does it, unlike gossip, without mentioning real names.
        The writers who don't discuss character but problems -- social problems or any problems -- take away from literature its very essence. They stop being entertaining. We, for some reason, always love to discuss and discover character. This is because each character is different, and human character is the greatest of puzzles. No matter how much I know a human being, I don't know him enough. Discussing character constitutes a supreme form of entertainment. -- Interview in 1978 with Richard Burgin
      