
        William M. Callaghan, a retired vice admiral of the United States Navy who organized the Military Sea Transportation Services after World War II and later commanded American naval forces in the Far East, died yesterday at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 93 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        He died after a stroke, his family said.
        Admiral Callaghan, a specialist in logistics, was a vice president of American Export Lines after he retired from naval service in 1957 and served as chairman of the Maritime Transportation Research Board under the National Academy of Sciences. Commanded the Missouri
        A 1918 graduate of the Naval Academy, he served on a destroyer guarding convoys crossing the Atlantic Ocean in the last six months of World War I and continued serving aboard destroyers after the war. He received a master of science degree in electrical engineering from Columbia University in 1925, and, after assignments to cruiser and aircraft carrier duty, he became an instructor in marine engineering at the Naval Academy.
        Before the United States entered World War II, he was sent to the American Embassy in London to plan deliveries of petroleum to Britain. He then became war plans officer for logistics on the staff of the commander in chief of the Pacific Fleet. In 1944, he took command of the battleship U.S.S. Missouri, which he led in engagements at Iwo Jima, Okinawa and Tokyo.
        After the war, he was named chief of the Naval Transportation Service. During the Korean War, he commanded amphibious forces of the Pacific Fleet before becoming commander of all naval forces in the Far East.
        Admiral Callaghan, who held the Legion of Merit, was a Knight of Malta and received a number of decorations from foreign governments, including the Order of the Rising Sun of Japan, the Order of the White Elephant of Thailand and the Order of Boyaca of Brazil.
        Admiral Callaghan's first wife, the former Helen Brunett, died in 1970, and his second wife, the former Martha Harper, died in 1973. His brother, Rear Adm. Daniel J. Callaghan, was killed in the Battle of the Solomons in World War II.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Sarah Duerson; a son, Rear Adm. William M. Callaghan Jr., of Rockville, Md.; a daughter, Jane Callaghan Gude of Bethesda, and eight grandchildren.
      