
        Iben Browning, a climatologist who created a stir last year when he predicted a major earthquake that never occurred along the New Madrid fault, which stretches from Arkansas through Missouri to Illinois, died on Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 73 years old and lived in Albuquerque.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        World attention focused on the tiny Missouri town of New Madrid (pronounced MAD-red) after Dr. Browning said in August that his calculations showed that on Dec. 3, plus or minus 48 hours, the area had a 50-50 chance of being the center of a destructive earthquake.
        His projection was based on studying tidal patterns and gravity. Although geologists said his calculations lacked a scientific basis, many residents along the fault line fled the area beginning in late November. In the early 19th century, on Dec. 16, 1811, New Madrid had been near the epicenter of one of the most devastating earthquakes ever recorded in North America.
        Life returned to normal there this year after the big earthquake failed to occur in New Madrid or anywhere else along the 120-mile fault line, which stretches from Marked Tree, Ark., to Cairo, Ill.
        While Dr. Browning's standing in the scientific community suffered, it was recalled that he had warned of the 1989 San Francisco earthquake a week in advance and had predicted the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980.
        Dr. Browning, who was born in Edna, Tex., graduated from Southwest Texas Teachers College and earned a master's degree and a doctoral degree from the University of Texas. He was a biophysicist by training who worked in varied scientific fields, including artificial intelligence and bioengineering. He applied his studies of climate patterns to offer predictions of world food production, demographic changes and other socioeconomic matters.
        Dr. Browning is survivied by his wife, the former Florence Pinto; a daughter, Evely Garriss of Sandia Park, N.M., and two grandchildren.
      