
        Morton Smith, a professor of history at Columbia University for nearly three decades and an authority on religions and magic in the ancient world, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        He died of heart failure, university officials said.
        Professor Smith was best known for his report in 1960 of what he said was a secret Gospel of the Apostle Mark, from which he theorized that Jesus might have been a magician rather than a Hebrew rabbi and that magic rituals played an important role in fledgling Christianity.
        After spending several years of research to establish the authenticity of the manuscript, a fragment of a letter believed to have been written by a Christian teacher who lived in the second century, Clement of Alexandria, Professor Smith rekindled controversy over his theory in 1973 when he published two books on the subject, "Clement of Alexandria and a Secret Gospel of Mark," written primarily for scholars, and "The Secret Gospel," for the general public.
        Other Biblical scholars were skeptical, questioning whether the excerpts from Clement's letter were in fact quotations from Mark, the supposed writer of the second Gospel in the New Testament. One critic, the Rev. Dr. Pierson Parker, a professor at the General Theological Seminary, credited Professor Smith's "prodigious" knowledge of ancient magic but disputed, for example, the contention that the miracle of Jesus's raising Lazarus from the dead could properly be called magic.
        In 1958 Professor Smith was perusing manuscripts at the great tower library of Mar Saba, a Greek Orthodox monastery 12 miles south of Jerusalem founded about 1,500 years ago. He came upon Clement's letter, which had been desposited centuries earlier in a wilderness of high caves that served as hiding places for threatened and valuable manuscripts of early Christianity.
        The letter, in tiny Greek script, appeared on two pages that had been used as the endpaper and the binding of a 17th-century book. After consulting paleontologists and translating the letter, which was written to a Theodore, who was not further identified, Professor Smith concluded that the fragment was a valuable clue to the nature of early Christianity.
        A native of Philadelphia, Professor Smith received bachelor's degrees from Harvard College and the Harvard Divinity School, a doctorate in philosophy from Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a doctorate in theology from Harvard Divinity.
        He taught at Brown and Drew Universities before joining the Columbia faculty in 1957. He became professor emeritus in 1985 and continued as a lecturer in religion until last year. Among his other books are "The Ancient Greeks," published in 1960, "Palestinian Parties and Politics That Shaped the Old Testament" (1971) and "Jesus the Magician" (1978), which won Columbia's Lionel Trilling Book Award.
        In 1980 Professor Smith received the Ralph Marcus Centennial Award of the Society of Biblical Literature for historical research supporting biblical studies.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      