
        Michael Kalil, an interior designer who worked for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, died on Tuesday at his mother's home in Bridgehampton, L.I. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Kalil died of pulmonary complications associated with cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        Mr. Kalil, who was known for his abstract designs, spoke of himself as a "space engineer" and was constantly experimenting with space.
        "I've reduced design to its absolute basic form," he said in a 1979 interview. "I want people to look at a window as sun, air and view, not as glass and metal; not to think of a roof as tile, but as rain and snow."  Concepts for Space Modules
        Since 1983 Mr. Kalil had been working with NASA on conceptual designs of space modules for human occupation. He had taught design and lectured at a number of schools, among them the Parsons School of Design, the New York School of Interior Design, Columbia University and the University of North Carolina.
        He was part of the Open Atelier of Architecture and Design in TriBeCa, founded by Giuseppe Zambonini, an Italian architect, in the early 1970's to develop new approaches to design education. In 1971 he opened the Kalil Studio for interior architecture in Manhattan.
        In 1980 he received the Interiors Design Award for his automated office space designs for Armstrong World Industries.
        His work has been exhibited at a number of museums, including the Museum of Contemporary Crafts, the Fort Worth Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum.
        He was born in Lowell, Mass., and attended Pratt Institute. "I went there to learn how to question, and they gave me a lot of answers," he said. "So I left and have no degree."
        He began his career with Skidmore Owings & Merrill, the architectural firm, where he remained for three years. Advised by Ward Bennett, the interior and industrial designer, to "learn everything from the beginning," Mr. Kalil devoted himself exclusively to the study of sculpture and stonework for the next three months.
        "I told everyone I was going away," he said in a 1979 interview. "I never left the room. That room became one of my stronger teachers."
        He is survived by his mother, Nellie Kalil.
      