
        Albert E. Parr, the director of the American Museum of Natural History from 1942 to 1959, died on Tuesday at his home in Wilder, Vt. He was 90 years old.
        Dr. Parr, a marine biologist by training, a professor of oceanography at Yale and the director of its Peabody Museum before assuming the top post at the Museum of Natural History, was a leader in efforts to stress the interpretive function of museums as opposed to what he called the "dead circus" approach.
        "Our exhibits must emphasize interpretation, not mere presentation," he once said. "We must attempt to make what is important fascinating."
        At the museum's field research stations Dr. Parr sought greater understanding of how human beings interact with and affect the environment. The Warburg Memorial Hall of General Ecology, which was opened on Central Park West in 1951, was devoted to addressing the interdependence of human beings and the rest of nature. Norwegian Merchant Marine
        A number of other new exhibition halls were opened during his tenure, including the Sanford Memorial Hall of the Biology of Birds in 1948, the Whitney Memorial Hall of Oceanic Birds in 1953, the Hall of North American Mammals in 1954, the Hall of North American Forests in 1958 and the special exhibition, "Men of the Montana," in 1951.
        Dr. Parr was born in Bergen, Norway, and studied at the Royal University of Oslo. He traveled widely as a member of the Norwegian merchant marine and was an assistant in zoology at the Museum of Bergen and an assistant in fisheries research before coming to the United States in 1926 to join the staff of the New York Aquarium. In 1927 he was named curator of the Bingham Oceanographic Collection.
        He joined the Peabody Museum staff in 1931 and served as scientific director of oceanographic expositions at Yale in the 1930's. From 1937 to 1942 he was director of marine research, exploring the Caribbean, the Gulf of Mexico and adjacent Atlantic waters. He became director of the Peabody in 1938, serving until he assumed the directorship of the Museum of Natural History.
        In 1959 Dr. Parr retired as director and became senior scientist at the museum, enabling him to return to full-time research. He was named director emeritus of the museum in 1968. In 1980 he was the first recipient of the Distinguished Service Medal of the American Association of Museums. Founded Research Journal
        Dr. Parr wrote numerous papers on oceanography and marine biology for scientific journals and was the founder and first managing editor of the Sears Foundation Journal of Marine Research. He was a past president of the American Association of Museums and was a member of the United States National Commission for UNESCO.
        Dr. Parr was the second former director of the Museum of Natural History to die within a period of eight days. Dr. Thomas D. Nicholson, who served from 1969 to 1989, died on July 9.
        Dr. Parr's wife, the former Ella Hage, whom he married in 1925, died on May 2. He is survived by two sons, Gifford, of Baltimore, and Thomas, of Wilder; two daughters, Hedvig Anderegg of Lebanon, N.H., and Victoria Neumann of South Strafford, Vt.; a brother, Ludolf, of Hagesand, Norway; a sister, Dagmar Paden of Lawrence, Kan., and four grandchildren.
      