
        His goblins, devils and witches may have been lurking somewhere around the funeral, but since their opinions of him could not be distinguished with any certainty, Isaac Bashevis Singer was remembered by relatives and companions yesterday for an impish wit and penetrating insight into human nature that enriched both his stories and those who knew him.
        Still, when the rabbi's eulogy was repeatedly interrupted by growling noises from the amplifier system, more than a few mourners may have wondered whether the spirits he sometimes depicted with such zest and terror were having their revenge.
        "Those are demons, by the way," Rabbi William Berkowitz finally said of the noises, to chuckles from mourners who sensed that it was the kind of confusion in which Mr. Singer would have delighted.
        Mr. Singer, who won the 1978 Nobel Prize in Literature for his sometimes mystical depiction of Jewish life in Poland and the bitter absurdities of immigrant life here, died on Wednesday in Florida at the age of 87.  Lived a Full Life
        At Riverside Memorial Chapel at 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, his body lay inside a pine coffin flanked by sprays of roses and pink lilies and two menorahs. The presence of more than 300 people, from the worlds of Yiddish letters and theater -- but also struggling writers whom he had advised and neighborhood residents whom he had befriended -- was testimony to the rather modest life a man of Mr. Singer's stature managed to lead.
        Though there was a plaintive sense of loss and expressions of sadness for Alma, his wife of 50 years, the funeral was not an occasion for deep outpourings of grief. Sorrow was tempered by a feeling that, as Rabbi Berkowitz and Mr. Singer's son, Israel Zamir, said, Mr. Singer had lived a full life that made the world a far richer place for his having been in it.
        Rabbi Berkowitz remembered that Mr. Singer was once asked why he thought his story collection, "Gimpel the Fool," was so popular. Mr. Singer replied that he guessed it was because people thought the book was about the famous department store, Gimbel's, which has since closed.
        "I think I will name my next collection, 'Macy's the Idiot,' " Mr. Singer added. 'The Sense of Wonder'
        "Isaac was a genius, gifted beyond description," said Rabbi Berkowitz, explaining later that "he never lost the sense of wonder and terror that a child feels."
        Rabbi Berkowitz also remembered that Mr. Singer asked him to accompany him to Stockholm for the Nobel Prize ceremony.
        "Since I write about demons and goblins," Mr. Singer explained to Swedish reporters, "by having a rabbi here I wasn't taking any chances."
        There was more than just humor, Rabbi Berkowitz said, there was a kind of wisdom to Mr. Singer's ironic perspective on life.
        Mr. Zamir, Mr. Singer's son by his first wife, Rachel, flew in from Israel, where he is deputy editor of the newspaper, Al Hamishmar. In a private conversation before the funeral, Mr. Zamir told how his parents had separated in Poland when he was 5, with Mr. Singer going to the United States in 1935 and his mother taking him to British-controlled Palestine.
        Father and son did not see each other for 20 years, until Mr. Zamir traveled to America. But they grew closer, Mr. Zamir said, through Mr. Zamir's Hebrew translations of his father's short stories.
        "This intellectual attachment closed a gap of 20 years," said Mr. Zamir.
        Clustering before and after the funeral, mourners remembered a simplicity that cut through any pretension.
        Irene Lieblich, illustrator of his children's book, "The Power of Light," remembered visiting him in Florida last Hanukkah, when he was greatly affected by a series of strokes. He did not recognize her, and could not respond to her requests that he autograph their book. Then, in Yiddish, she reminded him that she came from a town near his maternal grandmother's home of Bilgoraj.
        "His eyes got blue again and alive," she recalled and Mr. Singer spoke: "If you come from Bilgoraj, then you must know, 'Raisins and Almonds.' "
        She sang the Yiddish lullaby for him and he called his wife to get him a pen.
        If there was not more display of grief, perhaps it was because, as Rabbi Berkowitz said in his eulogy, Mr. Singer had convinced those who knew him of his argument that "the human spirit does not end with physical death," that "every soul who ever lived is here in one way or the other."
      