
        Bert Convy, an actor and host of television game shows, died today at his home in Brentwood here. He was 57 years old.
        A brain tumor was diagnosed in April 1990, said his manager, Howard Hinderstein. He had been admitted to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here after collapsing during a visit to his mother, who had been hospitalized for a stroke.
        Mr. Convy won an Emmy award in 1977 for his work as the host of the CBS show "Tattletales." He also served as the host of the game shows "Win, Lose or Draw" and "Super Password," and he was a guest host on the "Tonight" show starring Johnny Carson.
        His film credits include "Semi-Tough," "The Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders," "The Man in the Santa Claus Suit," "Help Wanted: Male," "Love Thy Neighbor" and "Hero at Large." A Start in Baseball
        Mr. Convy was born in St. Louis. When he was 7, his family moved to Los Angeles, where he later attended North Hollywood High School. A star first baseman, he signed with the Philadelphia Phillies a day after graduating and played with the team's farm clubs in Klamath Falls, Ore., and Miami, Okla. He quit baseball after two years.
        He flirted with an acting career while attending the University of California at Los Angeles, and was a singer in a rock band called the Cheers.
        He turned to acting full time in 1956 and was in the musical "The Billy Barnes Revue" in Los Angeles before moving to New York. He appeared in 10 Broadway shows, including "Nowhere to Go but Up," "Cabaret" and "The Impossible Years." He created the role of Perchik, the young revolutionary, in "Fiddler on the Roof," and played the reporter Hildy Johnson in a 1969 Broadway revival of "The Front Page," which starred Robert Ryan.
        His television credits include his own prime-time variety show, "The Late Summer Early Fall Bert Convy Show," and guest roles on "77 Sunset Strip," "Perry Mason," "Father of the Bride," "Love, American Style" and "The Partridge Family." He also starred in "The Snoop Sisters" and "It's Not Easy" and was the host of the short-lived "People Do the Craziest Things."
        His first marriage, to the former Anne Andersen, ended in divorce this year. He is survived by his second wife, Catherine, whom he married five months ago, and by three children from his first marriage, Jennifer, Joshua and John.
      