
        Stephen Raushenbush, who played a role in defeating the German U-boat campaign in the Atlantic during World War II, died yesterday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 95 years old.
        He died of natural causes, said his daughter, Stephanie.
        When the United States went to war against Germany in December 1941 Mr. Raushenbush was transferred from the Department of the Interior, which he had joined in 1939 as chief of planning and research, to serve on the technical staff of the United States naval attache in London. He served there with a number of British and American scientists and mathematicians who developed the battle plan used to defeat the German submarine campaign.
        After the war Mr. Raushenbush was a consultant on resources to the United Nations from 1947 to 1950. He served as a senior research economist at the Public Affairs Institute in Washington until 1963, and continued as an independent consultant until he retired in 1966. He moved to Sarasota in 1969. Author of Several Books
        Mr. Raushenbush wrote several books, including "The March of Facism," published by the Yale University Press in 1939, and "Man's Past, Man's Future," published by Doubleday in 1969.
        In 1934 he was appointed secretary and chief investigator of a special Senate committee to investigate the munitions industry, and helped draft legislation adopted by Congress as a result of the investigation.
        In 1931 he was appointed special assistant on public utilities by Gifford Pinchot, then Governor of Pennsylvania, and served in the state government for several years.
        Mr. Raushenbush was born in Manhattan, where his father was a Baptist minister, and graduated cum laude from Amherst College in 1917.
        He was a volunteer ambulance driver in World War I, serving with the American Expeditionary Force in France from 1917 to 1919.
        Besides his daughter Stephanie, who lives in Brooklyn, Mr. Raushenbush is survived by his wife, the former Josephine Joan Burns; a son, Burns, both of Sarasota; two sons from an earlier marriage to Evelyn Preston Baldwin, Carl Baldwin of Manhattan and Roger Baldwin of Upper Saddle River, N.J.; a brother, Carl, of Cincinnati, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      