
        Bishop Smallwood E. Williams, a onetime sidewalk preacher who became an influential minister in Washington and the worldwide leader of the Bible Way Church, died Friday at the Washington Hospital Center. He was 83 years old and lived in the capital.
        He died of a heart ailment, his daughter, Yvonne, said.
        Bishop Williams moved to Washington from Columbus, Ohio, at the age of 19 with a few dollars and a secondhand tent and began preaching at Seventh and O Streets N.W., using a fireplug as his pulpit.  100,000-Member Church
        The Pentecostal minister soon founded the Bible Way Church of Our Lord Jesus Christ, which now rises above New Jersey Avenue at New York Avenue N.W. and its nearby $3.3 million federally financed Golden Rule housing complex for low- and middle-income Washingtonians. His global church has more than 100,000 members in 330 congregations in this country, Britain, Africa and Latin America.
        For decades, Bishop Williams was a forceful advocate of the capital's poor. He was also an early advocate of civil rights and a spokesman for fellow blacks and other minorities.
        In 1977, as his church marked its 50th anniversary, he said he had always sought to instill in parishioners a will "to live by faith, not luck," to overcome temptations with an abiding belief in God and themselves, to respect the rights of others and to rise above the policies of white segregationists "because their arms are too short to box with God."
        "I think back on how much has changed," he said in the 1977 interview, but, shaking his head, added, "The American dream has not been realized for many. I don't feel that we've made it yet, but we are on the way."
        At times the bishop espoused policies criticized by white friends, like his opposition to a 1987 proposal to enact a bottle-deposit ordinance in the capital. The referendum was rejected. He said that he usually took pro-environment positions, but that many fellow blacks regarded the proposal as a frivolous "dessert" issue while they were grappling with basic "soup" issues.
        Smallwood Edmund Williams was born in Lynchburg, Va., and grew up in Columbus. To achieve an early ambition to become a preacher, he overcame a major handicap, stuttering. He went on to graduate from the American Bible College in Chicago and was ordained a minister of the Pentecostal denomination of the Church of Our Lord Jesus Christ.
        Besides his daughter, who lives in Washington, he is survived by his wife of 63 years, Verna; a son, Wallace, also of Washington; a brother, Adolphus of Columbus; five sisters, Corinne Gibson, Lucille Turner, Mary Handon and Lucretia Cunningham, all of Columbus, and Bobbette Morrow of Cleveland; two grandchildren and two great-grandsons.
      