
        James Van Alen, who changed tennis with his invention of the tie-breaker scoring system, died Wednesday after falling off a terrace at his home. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Van Alen's wife, Candace, said that his vision was impaired and that he had apparently not seen the three-foot drop off the terrace. "It was a freak accident," she said. He died at Newport Hospital, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Van Alen, who founded the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, his hometown, was a flamboyant figure in the sport. 'I've Got the Best Idea'
        His most famous innovation was the tie breaker, which was introduced in 1958 to speed up the game. It was part of a new scoring system based on table-tennis rules, and featured a limited number of points in each game and set.
        The system was criticized by tennis traditionalists, but the criticism did not stop Mr. Van Alen. "I think I've got the best idea and I'm going to fight for it," he said. "It's in the best interest of the game." The overall system was not used widely, but the tie breaker caught on.
        Traditionally, a player had to win a set by at least two games, which meant that a set could drag on for hours. But under Mr. Van Alen's system, if players were tied at a certain point they played a sudden-death tie breaker to determine the winner. Adopted by U.S. Open in 1970
        Mr. Van Alen tinkered with the tie breaker until it evolved into its current form. The tie breaker is used today after players reach 6-6 in a set. The first player to get 7 points in the tie breaker, with at least a 2-point margin, wins the set.
        The tie breaker did not gain full credibility until 1970, when the United States Open used it.
        Mr. Van Alen founded the Hall of Fame in 1954 at the site of the old Newport Casino, where the first United States tennis championships were held in 1881. He was elected president of the hall in 1957.
        Mr. Van Alen graduated in 1924 from Cambridge University, where he was a tennis champion.
        Later, he was a vice president of Farrar Straus publishers and owned a chain of weekly newspapers on Long Island.
      