
        Mark Allan Rosenfeld, a businessman who exported motor vehicles and who was taken prisoner by Iraqi soldiers while in Kuwait on business last year, died on Thursday at New York University Medical Center. He was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lymphoma related to AIDS, his family said.
        Mr. Rosenfeld, the president of Power Car International, an export concern based in New York City, arrived in Kuwait on Aug. 2, 1990, the day of the Iraqi invasion. He was taken prisoner and held for three weeks in the Meridien Hotel in Kuwait City.
        When President Saddam Hussein of Iraq ordered the American hostages transferred to Baghdad, Mr. Rosenfeld managed to escape. He told his family that while the Kuwaiti hotel employees distracted Iraqi guards, he and seven other Americans sneaked into the basement of the Meridien, seized a hotel van and raced past the Iraqis 10 blocks to the American Embassy.  Helped Organize Survival
        At the Embassy, Mr. Rosenfeld helped organize survival operations like food rationing, cooking and sanitation for the other Americans stranded in the compound.
        Mr. Rosenfeld returned home in early October. But at times during those long weeks as a hostage, he had believed he would not get out alive. In a letter smuggled to his brother, he wrote: "I've lived a full life. I have been loved by many people. I have loved. Please, dear brother, realize I'm not afraid to die."
        Born in Highland Park, N.J., Mr. Rosenfeld graduated from Syracuse University in 1958. He was a captain in the United States Army Reserve.
        Before joining the family export company in the late 1970's, Mr. Rosenfeld was director of personnel at Stanford University at Sunnyvale, Calif. He began his career as a buyer at Neiman Marcus in Dallas, and then became director of human resources for Sylvania Electronics of San Jose, Calif.
        He is survived by his mother, Anne Sklarew of Highland Park; a brother, Jeffrey, of Fairfax, Va.; a sister, Cindy Matloff of Needham, Mass., two nephews and a niece.
      