
        Dwight Weist, an actor and announcer who was known as "the man of 1,000 voices" for his impersonations on radio's "March of Time" in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday while vacationing on Block Island, R.I. He was 81 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Southold, L.I.
        He died of a heart attack, said a friend, Doris Davis.
        In the early days of "The March of Time," actors including Orson Welles and Agnes Moorehead re-enacted news of the week from the pages of Time magazine. Mr. Weist, who played Adolf Hitler and Franklin D. Roosevelt, among many others, received his nickname because of his ability to imitate a broad range of accents and ages.
        One the the busiest actors in radio drama, he was the first to play the title role in "Mr. District Attorney." He also played Police Commissioner Weston on "The Shadow" and acted in "Buck Rogers in the 25th Century," "Cavalcade of America" and various dramas by Norman Corwin.
        Other programs in which he acted or served as announcer included "We, the People," "The Aldrich Family," "Andy Hardy" and "The Second Mrs. Burton."
        His voice was prominent on the Pathe News reports in movie theaters in the 1940's. Later, he was heard on television, announcing "Search for Tomorrow" and many commercials.
        He was also heard in movies, including Woody Allen's "Zelig," and was seen announcing the attack on Pearl Harbor in Mr. Allen's "Radio Days."
        He was born in Palo Alto, Calif., and raised in Scranton, Pa. He graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1931, and acted at the Cleveland Playhouse before moving to New York City.
        Mr. Weist was a co-founder of the Weist-Barron School of Television and Commercial Acting in New York, where he taught for 35 years. He was a former president of the New York chapter of the Screen Actors Guild and was active in the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.
        Surviving are three sisters, Katherine Atherton of Scranton, Pa., Helen Deal of Plant City, Fla., and Marion Wilkinson of Bradenton, Fla.; four sons, Richard, of Fredonia, N.Y., Charles, of Norwalk, Conn., Andrew, of Mesa, Ariz., and Bart, of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Gretchen Stevens of Seattle, and seven grandchildren.
      