
        Thomas D. Nicholson, the director of the American Museum of Natural History from 1969 to 1989, when he retired, died on Tuesday at his home in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. He was 68 years old.
        He died of cancer, Herb Kurz, the museum's public affairs director, said yesterday.
        Dr. Nicholson, an astronomer who once lectured in the museum's Hayden Planetarium, took over the helm of the museum, one of the world's largest, in its centennial year. He then led efforts to extend its research and financial reach and to modernize exhibitions in its 19 buildings covering 23 acres off Central Park West between 77th and 81st Street in Manhattan.
        Within its architectural hodgepodge of towers, turrets and columns are the remains of 10 million insects and 200,000 mammals as well as 100 fossil invertebrates; in all, about 16 million items, of which only 10 percent can be displayed at any one time.  Upgraded Conservation Efforts
        Dr. Nicholson supervised many new exhibitions and educational activities, upgraded conservation efforts, doubled the research staff to 200 and enlarged the annual endowment fund to $143 million from $46 million. During his tenure annual attendance increased to 3.1 million from 2.1 million.
        Amid a 1980 debate over special versus permanent exhibitions, he expressed these views in a letter to The New York Times:
        "The American Museum entered the arena of attractive, popular special exhibitions some 10 years ago, when we perceived its appeal and advantages to the public. Yet we never sacrificed our commitment to exhibitions based on our permanent collections. And the stimulus was not the box office. It was the continuing conviction that scholarship, education and exhibition in our program are interdependent. Exhibition, to put it simply, is our business. And if we conduct our business well, we will earn the support we need."
        Dr. Nicholson's tenure was also marked by bitter disputes over a 1976 disclosure of laboratory experiments on cats and a 1984 exhibition of fossils from South Africa. In the lab tests, carried out over 20 years, the glands, nerves or brain tissue of hundreds of live cats were removed so researchers could analyze their sexual behavior. A citizens' protest campaign involving letters, newspaper ads and pickets led the museum to halt the tests two years after they came to light.  Fossils From South Africa
        The 1984 nine-country "Ancestors" exhibition was opposed by politicians who protested the presence of fossils from South Africa because of its racial policies. Dr. Nicholson at first refused to post a statement denouncing apartheid, saying such a gesture was unnecessary because the exhibit itself was a rejoinder to racism. He later reversed his position, however.
        Thomas Dominic Nicholson was born on Dec. 14, 1922 in Manhattan and grew up in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. His parents were Irish immigrants and his father, Dominic, was a shipwright. He graduated from the preparatory school of St. John's University and joined the merchant marine, serving in World War II as a deck officer and then first officer on troop and cargo ships around the world.
        After the war, he taught at the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, L.I., while studying evenings at St. John's University, where he earned a bachelor's degree cum laude. He also studied at Fordham University, where he majored in astronomy and earned master's and doctoral degrees.
        Dr. Nicholson taught astronomy at the United States Military Academy and at Hunter College, did research on a Greenland icecap, helped develop instruments used in the Gemini space program and, over eight years, made weekend appearances on WNBC-TV's weather programs as a meteorologist. "I find it a relaxing hobby," he said of his television role.
        He began lecturing at the Hayden Planetarium in 1952 and served successively as staff astronomer, director of the planetarium and deputy director of the museum before rising to director in 1969. He co-wrote several books on astronomy and received the St. John's University Medal of Honor in 1979 and many other professional awards.
        Surviving are his wife, Branca; two daughters, Diana Field of New City, N.Y., and Gail Mack of Manhattan; two sons, Lester, of Long Valley, N.J., and Glen, of New Milford, N.J.; four brothers, Jack, of Princeton, N.J., Robert, of Sag Harbor, L.I., James, of the Bronx and Peter, of Coram, L.I., and two granddaughters.
      