
        William Wesley Peters, an architect who devoted much of his career to preserving and promoting the work of Frank Lloyd Wright, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 79 years old and had homes in Spring Green, Wis., and Scottsdale, Ariz.
        He died of the effects of a stroke he suffered on July 5, said a spokesman for the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation, of which Mr. Peters was chairman.
        Mr. Peters was Wright's first apprentice in 1932, when the already legendary architect founded his Taliesin Fellowship in Spring Green to embody his theory of learning through experience.
        Except for two years in private practice, Mr. Peters remained at Wright's side, serving as structural engineer and project architect on many world-famous Wright-designed buildings, including the Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan, completed in 1959, the Johnson's Wax administration building and research tower built in Racine, Wis., between 1936 and 1944, and Fallingwater, probably the most widely acclaimed modern residence in America, erected in 1936 over a waterfall in Mill Run, Pa., for the department-store heir Edgar Kaufmann Jr.  Married Stalin's Daughter
        When Wright died in 1959, Mr. Peters succeeded him as chairman of Taliesin Associated Architects, and in 1885 he became chairman of the Wright Foundation.
        But to the general public Mr. Peters was perhaps better known as the husband, for a brief period, of Svetlana Alliluyeva, the daughter of Stalin. In 1972 he married Miss Alliluyeva, who had defected from the Soviet Union and come to the United States several years earlier. The couple separated after 20 months of marriage and were divorced in 1973. Miss Alliluyeva, who used her mother's name except during her marriage to Mr. Peters, returned to the Soviet Union in 1984 with their daughter, Olga.
        Mr. Peters, who was known to friends and associates as Wes, was born in Terre Haute, Ind., and attended Evansville College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before apprenticing to Wright. Except for his brief stint in private practice, he remained associated with the Wright group, now also based at Taliesin West in Scottsdale, for his entire career. Variety of Projects
        He was the architect of a variety of structures throughout the country and was a registered to practice in all 50 states. His work included performing arts centers, office buildings, churches, schools, hotels, restaurants, banks, shops and residences.
        In addition to teaching at the Frank Lloyd Wright School of Architecture, Mr. Peters lectured and wrote extensively about Wright and contemporary architecture.
        Mr. Peters's first wife, also named Svetlana, who was a stepdaughter of Wright, died in an automobile accident in 1946. His daughter, Olga, is now believed to be living in London with her mother. He is also survived by a son from his first marriage, Brandoch, of Spring Green, and a sister, Margedant Hayakawa of Mill Valley, Calif., the wife of the semanticist and educator S. I. Hayakawa.
      