
        Colleen Dewhurst, one of America's foremost actresses whose career on stage, screen and television spanned 40 years and earned her two Tony Awards and three Emmys, died last night at her home in South Salem, N.Y., The Associated Press reported. She was 67 years old.
        Ms. Dewhurst was pronounced dead by her personal physician, said Jan Stutts, a spokeswoman for the Westchester County Medical Examiner's Office. The cause of death was not immediately available.
        Ms. Dewhurst was closely identified with the works of Eugene O'Neill, and in 1974 won a Tony Award for her portrayal of Josie Hogan in the acclaimed revival of O'Neill's "Moon for the Misbegotten." She was nominated for a Tony in 1973 for her performance as Christine in O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra," in which she was hailed as one of the United States' pre-eminent tragic actresses.
        Her most recent New York appearances were on Broadway in 1988 as Mary Tyrone in O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and as Essie Miller in "Ah, Wilderness!," and as O'Neill's wife, Carlotta Monterey O'Neill, in "My Gene," a one-woman play by Barbara Gelb at the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1987. Led Actors' Equity
        Ms. Dewhurst also served two terms as president of Actors' Equity Association, the 39,000-member union of professional actors and stage managers, holding office from June 1985 until last May.
        An imposing presence both in person and on stage, Ms. Dewhurst was known as a woman never hesitant to use her distinctive, big throaty voice to express an opinion on almost any subject. In the theater, she conveyed a mature sexuality, a folkish earthiness; her feline smile, crinkly eyes and high cheekbones combined to soften her large stature and enable the audience to feel closer to her and to identify with her characters, who were often tragic.
        Her friends considered her passionate and caring. "She's like an earth mother," the actress Maureen Stapleton once said, "but in real life she's not to be let out without a keeper. She's a pushover, a pussycat. She's the madonna of the birds with broken wings." Born in Canada
        Colleen Dewhurst was born in Montreal on June 3, 1924. Her father was Fred Dewhurst, a hockey and football player who later became sales manager of a lighting concern. Her family left Canada when she was a child, moving first to Boston and later to Milwaukee.
        She attended Milwaukee Downer College, a girls' school, and decided to become an actress. She moved to New York, attended the Academy of Dramatic Arts for two years, and studied acting privately with Joseph Anthony and Harold Clurman. But finding stage work was not easy.
        She once described the 10 years from 1948 to 1958 as desperate and frustrating. "It was murder -- murder," she said. She worked as a receptionist, an elevator operator and on a telephone switchboard between roles in summer stock from Tennessee to Maine and bit parts in New York.
        Ms. Dewhurst actually made her Broadway debut in a very small role as a dancer in Mr. Clurman's 1952 revival of O'Neill's "Desire Under the Elms." But her first big break came in the mid-1950's, when she came to the attention of Joseph Papp, who was just beginning his New York Shakespeare Festival, producing plays on the Lower East Side, shortly before he moved to Central Park. Playing Kate in "The Taming of the Shrew" in 1956, she was seen by Brooks Atkinson, the chief theater critic of The New York Times. Mr. Atkinson praised her acting in print, and the public began to take notice. Start of a Team
        Major success began after the 1958 Greenwich Village Circle in the Square production of Edwin Justus Mayer's "Children of Darkness," in which she appeared with another up-and-coming young performer, George C. Scott. The production was staged by Jose Quintero, who would be her director for many O'Neill roles.
        Early in 1959, she played Cleopatra to Mr. Scott's Antony in Shakespeare's "Antony and Cleopatra" for Mr. Papp at the Heckscher Theater. The next year, Ms. Dewhurst and Mr. Scott divorced their respective spouses (Ms. Dewhurst had wed the actor James Vickery in 1947) and married. They had two children, divorced, then later remarried and divorced again.
        Her first Broadway role with lines came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family."
        In 1963, she returned to Circle in the Square and to "Desire Under the Elms," but this time instead of being a dancer she was a co-star, with Mr. Scott and Rip Torn, portraying Abbie Putnam in a critically praised production directed by Mr. Quintero. Starring With Jason Robards
        Mr. Quintero also staged the 1974 production of "A Moon for the Misbegotten," in which she co-starred with Jason Robards. Writing in The New York Times, Clive Barnes said Ms. Dewhurst "spoke O'Neill as if it were being spoken for the first time -- and not the first time in a theater (you always hope for that) but for the first time in a certain New England farm, on a certain September night in 1923."
        Ms. Dewhurst's other Broadway credits include the 1983 revival of George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's comedy "You Can't Take It With You," in which she co-starred with Mr. Robards; O'Neill's "More Stately Mansions," with Ingrid Bergman in 1967; Edward Albee's adaptation of Carson McCullers's "Ballad of the Sad Cafe," in 1963, and a revival of Mr. Albee's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?," with Ben Gazzara and directed by Mr. Albee, for which she was nominated for a Tony in 1977.
        She also appeared in many productions for Mr. Papp's Shakespeare Festival, including an "Antony and Cleopatra" in Central Park in 1963 without Mr. Scott (Michael Higgins played Antony) and stagings of "Hamlet" and "Macbeth." Her other Off Broadway plays include Athol Fugard's "Hello and Goodbye," in which she co-starred with Martin Sheen in 1969 and won a Drama Desk Award.
        Her many films include Woody Allen's "Annie Hall"; "The Cowboys" and "McQ" with John Wayne; "Tribute" with Jack Lemmon; "The Nun's Story"; "A Fine Madness," and "Ice Castles."
        She performed in the recent movie "Dying Young" with Julia Roberts and her son Campbell Scott, who also acted with her in the Broadway revivals of "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and "Ah, Wilderness!" Numerous TV Roles
        On television she was seen with Candice Bergen on "Murphy Brown" in the last three seasons as Murphy's mother, Avery Brown, winning an Emmy Award in 1989. Her other television credits include productions of "A Moon for the Misbegotten," two Arthur Miller plays, "The Price" and "The Crucible," "No Exit," "The Women's Room," "As Is," "Anne of Green Gables," "Anne of Avonlea" and "Lantern Hill." She also received Emmys for her roles in "Between Two Women" and "And Those She Left Behind."
        Last year, as president of Equity, Ms. Dewhurst became embroiled in the union's dispute with the producer Cameron Mackintosh over whether Jonathan Pryce should be allowed to perform the role of a Eurasian pimp that he created in the London production of "Miss Saigon" when the show opened on Broadway.
        The union first barred Mr. Pryce and then reversed its decision, and he went on to win the Tony Award this year as best actor in a musical.
        In announcing the ban on Mr. Pryce and her support for the union's declaration that it was inappropriate in 1990 for a Caucasian actor to portray a Eurasian, Ms. Dewhurst said, "It's not censorship because it wouldn't have been censoring for us to ask for the stopping of the minstrel show." She was widely criticized for her statement and her stand, but there were also many who supported her and the union. Active in Theatrical Causes
        Long active in theatrical causes, Ms. Dewhurst was a member of the board of the Actors' Fund of America, the theatrical charity and social services agency. She was also the chairwoman of the fund's executive committee, which helps theater professionals who have AIDS. She was the chairwoman of the advisory board of the Actors' Work Program, vice chairwoman of the board of Save the Theaters and a member of the boards of the American Council for the Arts and the Theater Development Fund. In 1982, she was active in the unsuccessful fight to save the Morosco and Helen Hayes Theaters on Broadway from being torn down to make way for the Marriott Marquis Hotel.
        But it was acting rather than activism that she cared about the most. "When I started acting -- just a kid -- it was, 'I like theater,' " she said some years ago. "Then it was, 'I love theater.' Now it's more than that."
        Ms. Dewhurst lived on a farm in South Salem, in upstate New York, with her companion of the last 16 years, the Broadway producer Ken Marsolais. The farm's population also includes eight cats, two dogs, one goat and a parrot. "The farm," Ms. Dewhurst wrote a few years ago, "is my eye in the storm, my sanity, my safety, my knowledge that there is a place that I do exist, that is my home."
        In addition to Campbell Scott, she is survived by another son, Alexander R. Scott, a theatrical stage manager and writer, and two grandchildren.
      