
        Marietta Tree, a daughter of privilege who won plaudits as a representative to the United Nations in the 1960's and as a tireless worker for New York City causes, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 74 years old.
        She died of cancer, her son-in-law, James Sterba, said.
        Mrs. Tree was appointed a representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in 1961 and served also as a special adviser to the United States delegation. She remained at the United Nations until 1967, serving in several
        posts, including delegate to the Trusteeship Council.
        In the last decade, she was chairwoman of the Citizens Committee for New York City, a group that tries to help neighborhood groups improve their communities.  She resigned her post because of illness nine months ago.
        Mrs. Tree came from a distinguished family and privileged circumstances and could have spent her life quite insulated from the tensions of international diplomacy and the frustrations of a city that so frequently seemed to be in crisis. But that is not what she wanted. Tributes From Friends
        Arthur Schlesinger Jr., the historian, a close friend of Mrs. Tree's for many years, said: "Her ambition was to be a combination of Mrs. Roosevelt and Carole Lombard. And that is what she was."
        Another close friend agreed. "She was elegant, glorious and sparkling," saidOsborne Elliot, who was founding chairman of the Citizens Committee and who, since her resignation, has returned as chairman. "She set many drawing rooms
        afire. But more importantly, she cared deeply about the world, the nation, this city and its people."
        Mrs. Tree was born in Lawrence, Mass., the daughter of the Right Rev. Malcolm Endicott Peabody, an Episcopal clergyman, who from 1940 to 1962 was Bishop for Central New York State of the Episcopal Church. Her mother was the former Mary Parkman, daughter of a prominent New England family.
        The family believed that it was a responsibility to dedicate at least some of one's life to public service, and the message was received by all five of their children. One of Mrs. Tree's brothers, Endicott, became Governor of Massachusetts.
        The Peabodys moved around a bit before World War II. For a time they lived in Philadelphia, where Mr. Peabody was minister of St. Paul's Church in Chestnut Hill and young Marietta attended Springside Academy. She also attended St. Timothy's School in Baltimore and the Petite Ecole Florentine in Florence, Italy. From 1936 to 1939, she attended the University of Pennsylvania, where she concentrated in political science.
        In 1939, she married Desmond FitzGerald, a lawyer and conservative Republican. The marriage ended in divorce in 1947. The couple had a daughter, Frances FitzGerald, an author whose nonfiction best-seller "Fire in the Lake,"
        about the Vietnam War, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1973.
        Soon after the divorce, Marietta married Ronald Tree, a former Conservative member of the British Parliament. He died in 1976. The two had a daughter, Penelope Tree, who became a model.
        During World War II Mrs. Tree worked as a researcher at Life magazine. After the war she became active in liberal Democratic politics in New York. She was on the New York State Democratic Committee from 1954 to 1960 and was one of Adlai E. Stevenson's chief aides when he ran for President against Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956.
        After John F. Kennedy was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Tree to the United Nations job, where she served when Mr. Stevenson was the top United States representative there.
        "I work in the political field because I believe that everyone in a community has duties as well as rights," Mrs. Tree said in 1961. "I am impelled by a feeling that I have so many blessings I must somehow try to pay for them in hard
        work for the community and in gratitude for being an American. I have to try and pay my debt to God."
        After her diplomatic service ended, Mrs. Tree became increasingly interested in urban problems. She was a partner in the city planning firm of Llewelyn-Davies Associates, a British organization, and ran its New York office from 1968 to 1980. She was neither an architect nor a planner but rather, as her brother, Malcolm, recalls it, "a rainmaker" who was able to motivate city officials. She worked on a slum rehabilitation project in Manila and consulted on various projects in Hong Kong, Borneo, Beirut and elsewhere. Held New York City Post
        Her interest in New York City was evident early on. In 1944 she was one of the founders of Sydenham Hospital, then hailed as the first interracial voluntary hospital in the United States. Mayor Robert F. Wagner appointed her to the city's Commission on Intergroup Relations in 1959.
        Among her other activites was service on the board of directors of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Foundation, the Marconi International Foundation and the Winston Churchill Foundation. She also was on the boards of
        CBS and Pan American World Airways.
        Among the survivors are her daughters, Frances FitzGerald of Manhattan and Penelope Tree of Sydney, Australia; four brothers, Endicott, of Hollis, N.H.; George L., of Washington, an educational consultant; , Samuel P., of Manhattan, a philanthropist, and Malcolm E., of Washington, a real-estate developer.
        Funeral arrangements are incomplete. Mrs. Tree will be cremated and her remains buried in Northeast Harbor, Me. There will be a memorial service in New York City in September, but the date and location have not yet been selected, the family said.
        Correction:  August 17, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Marietta Tree, a former United Nations representative and campaigner for New York City causes, rendered the name of the founding chairman of the Citizens Committee for New York City incorrectly. He is Osborn Elliott.
      