
        James M. MacLachlan, a marketing and electronics specialist who developed a technique of "time compression" into a tool widely used in radio and television, died on Sunday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 57 years old and lived in South Delmar, N.Y.
        He died of lymphoma, said a spokesman for the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., where Mr. MacLachlan was an associate professor of management.
        Time compression is a way of shortening commercials and videos, as well as feature films shown on the home screen, without losing any of the action. Mr. MacLachlan did so by electronically shaving and splicing snippets of film or videotape milliseconds at a time.
        The trick was to compress the action without giving it the jumpy look of silent one-reelers and to lower the pitch of the voice slightly so the actors would not sound like Donald Duck.  Cutting of Scenes Prevented
        The results have been shorter -- and less expensive -- commercials and "complete" showings of cult series like "Star Trek." Earlier "Star Trek" enthusiasts were incensed when even brief scenes were cut to make room for commercials.
        The networks also have compressed feature films, reporting no viewer complaints. And the technique is applied in college instruction, sales training and readings for the blind. Mr. MacLachlan said his research showed that condensing without removal of the content resulted in improved comprehension and recall by viewers and listeners.
        Mr. MacLachlan, a native of Geneva, Ill., graduated from the Carnegie Institute of Technology and held an M.B.A. from Harvard University and a Ph.D. in business administration from the University of California at Berkeley. His technique of time compression first came into wide use in the early 1980's. He joined Rensselaer's School of Management in 1981.
        Mr. MacLachlan is survived by his wife, Sally Gerig Campbell MacLachlan; a daughter, Laura Hathaway of San Leandro, Calif.; two stepdaughters, Sheila Snyder of Maine, N.Y., and Carolyn Campbell of Portland, Me.; a sister, Margaret Willis of Smyrna, Ga.; a brother, William B., of Red Bank, N.J., and two grandsons.
      