
        Russell Edwards, a former society editor of The New York Times, died on Wednesday at the Grand Islander Health Center in Middletown, R.I., where he had lived for six years. He was 82 and had lived in Newport, R.I., since he retired in 1976.
        He died of a ruptured aneurism, said his stepdaughter, Alison Hamilton.
        Mr. Edwards's first job at The Times was in the newspaper's clipping files, where he became interested in family trees. He later became a copy editor and was named society editor in 1954. It was during Mr. Edwards's tenure that The Times ran its first picture of a black bride on the society page.
        In 1957, he oversaw a series on changes in society in major American cities. His own contribution, a full-page article on New York City, chronicled the evolution of society from the days of Mrs. William Astor's exclusive Four Hundred to the emergence of a glittering international set that included industrialists and movie stars. He noted the demise of large-scale entertaining at home, the disappearance of the stately mansions, and a trend to informality.
        "Russell Edwards was probably as knowledgeable about the ins and outs of New York society as anybody in the country," Clifton Daniel, a managing editor and associate editor of The Times in the 1960's and 70's, said yesterday. "At the same time he was not a gossip writer. He maintained a very high standard."
        At the age of 14, while delivering groceries after school, he started writing a social column for The Suffolk Citizen. In 1927, he was the Long Island champion of an oratorical contest sponsored by The New York Times for high school students. At Bates College he was a reporter on the school paper, but left after a year to join The Times, where he stayed for 47 years.
        His first marriage, to Martha Joe Verrill, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Willette Ockendon Brown; two daughters, Priscilla Browning of West Southport, Me., and Constance Ott of Lake Como, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Alison Hamilton of Newport, seven grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      