
        Pierre Brunet, a French figure skater and Olympic champion who was equally renowned as a skating teacher, died on Saturday at his home in Boyne City, Mich.
        He was 89 years old, and according to friends had been suffering from Parkinson's disease.
        In winning 10 consecutive French men's singles championships, and with his wife, Andree Joly, four world pairs championships and two Olympic gold medals in the pairs, Mr. Brunet became one of the most lionized European celebrities of the 1920's and 1930's. Came to New York in 1940
        After a brief professional career with his wife in Europe and Canada, he turned to teaching. Coming to New York in 1940, over the next quarter of a century he transformed the New York Skating Club's rink at the old Madison Square Garden into a virtual shrine of the sport.
        He was widely regarded as skating's greatest teacher long before his most accomplished pupil, Carol Heiss, won five world championships, and a gold medal at the 1960 Olympics.
        Mr. Brunet, who was born in northern France in 1902 and came to Paris at the age of 4, learned to skate, or rather discovered that he was a born skater, when he was 9, according to a New Yorker profile in 1954.
        Playing hooky one day, he stumbled upon a frozen pond in the Bois de Boulogne and was so enchanted by the novel sight of the skaters that he promptly went home, got his savings and bought himself a pair of skates and a book of instruction.
        He entered his first national championship at the age of 17, placing second. Mr. Brunet returned the next year to win the first of his 10 consecutive titles, a feat that made him an enduring hero in France. A Championship Team
        Between 1926 and 1932 he and Miss Joly won four world championships as well as the 1928 Olympics in St. Moritz and the 1932 Games in Lake Placid, N.Y.
        Mr. Brunet, whose skating was known for its precise and classical quality, once denounced the trend to strenuous leaps and other grunting athleticisms by suggesting that figure skating had become "a sport for kangaroos." He was chagrined last year when the compulsory figures, the precise tracing of patterns on the ice, were eliminated from international competition.
        As a teacher, Mr. Brunet was known both for his deep knowledge of the sport and for his demanding standards.
        After the old Garden was vacated in 1968, Mr. Brunet taught for several more years in New York, using rinks on Long Island and elsewhere, then operated schools in Illinois and Michigan before retiring about a dozen years ago.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Brunet is survived by four sisters who live in Paris.
      