
        Donald C. Platten, chairman and chief executive of Chemical Bank from 1973 to 1984, died on Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72 years old and lived in Darien, Conn.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        Chemical Bank was the only place Mr. Platten ever worked. He had nonpaying summer jobs there for two years while he was in college, and joined Chemical's credit department soon after he graduated from Princeton in 1940. His salary that first year was $1,300, nearly as much as he made in a single day 35 years later, when he was Chemical's top executive.
        Mr. Platten specialized in philosophy at Princeton -- not economics "or an accounting course that gave me fits," he once said -- even though "I sort of knew I was going into business." Moved Bank's Headquarters
        He was appointed an assistant secretary of the bank in 1950, assistant vice president in 1953 and vice president in 1957. Promoted to senior vice president in 1964, he was put in charge of Chemical's 145 branches in the metropolitan area at the time.
        He was named executive vice president in 1967, with responsibility for the international division. Mr. Platten turned it into a $3 billion unit before he was named first vice president in September 1970, the steppingstone to the chairman's office.
        Chemical nearly tripled its total assets and grew as a diversified financial services organization while he was chairman. It assembled the state's second-largest branch network, after Citibank, when it paid $40 million for the Security National Bank on Long Island in 1975. Security had 96 branches and deposits of $1.4 billion.
        In 1979, Mr. Platten moved his office -- and Chemical's headquarters -- from lower Manhattan, where the bank had been based for more than 150 years, to 277 Park Avenue. Building Named for Him
        In the aftermath of New York City's fiscal crisis of the 1970's, Mayor Edward I. Koch named Mr. Platten chairman of the New York City Mayor's Management Advisory Committee. That nine-member panel met monthly to review issues of management and operations.
        He was a lifetime director of the Collegiate School, which he had attended, and was the first person to have a Collegiate building named for him.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a son, Peter W., of Cranbury, N.J.; two daughters, Katherine P. Tyson of Sudbury, Mass., and Alison P. Vanderbilt of Norwalk, Conn.; two brothers, John H., of Princeton and Peter, of Devon, Pa.; seven grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      