
        Charles (Cookie) Cook, a member of the vaudeville tap-dance act Cook and Brown and a popular tap-dance teacher, died on Thursday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York City. He was 77 years old.
        He died of kidney failure, said Susan Goldbetter, his personal manager.
        Mr. Cook, who was born in Chicago, began performing in vaudeville as a child with Garbage and the Two Cans and with Sarah Venable and Her Picks, working with that act into 1929. The following year, he and Ernest (Brownie) Brown formed Cook and Brown, performing as a headline act in vaudeville theaters throughout the United States and in Europe. The two were known for their blend of tumbling and acrobatics with dancing and sly comedy. They first performed together in 1930 at the College Inn in Chicago, and opened four years later at the Cotton Club. Knockabout Style
        According to Marshall and Jean Stearns, the authors of "Jazz Dance," the two were unparalleled for their frantic, knockabout style, developed through study of circus tumblers and vaudeville comedians. Mr. Cook was the tall, grouchy foil to Mr. Brown, a small, spirited performer. The two appeared on Broadway in "Kiss Me Kate" and worked steadily through the 1960's while employment for tap dancers dwindled. They later reappeared occasionally as a team in tap galas.
        Mr. Cook continued to perform on his own, appearing last summer in a tap festival in Manhattan. He appeared in the film "Cotton Club" and in tap programs at the Newport Jazz Festival, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, the 1984 Summer Olympics and at the Smithsonian Institution in "Fancy Feet," which he also choreographed.
        His television appearances included the "Gershwin Gala" on public television, and he danced in the video documentaries "Great Feats of Feet." Mr. Cook taught tap in New York, to pupils who include the dancers Jane Goldberg and Gail Conrad, and made a teaching video called "Essentials of Tap Technique."
        There are no survivors.
      