
        Robert Herman, the general manager of the Greater Miami Opera from 1973 to 1985 and an assistant to Sir Rudolf Bing at the Metropolitan Opera from 1953 to 1973, died on Monday at his home in Miami. He was 66 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, said Walter Naujoks, his friend and business partner.
        Mr. Herman was widely credited with transforming the Greater Miami Opera, which is 51 years old, from a small regional troupe into one of the 10 biggest opera companies in the United States. By aggressively seeking corporate support instead of relying on individual contributions as the company had been doing, he was able to expand the budget from the $650,000 it had when he joined the company to nearly $4 million when he retired.  Newcomers and Stars
        He was also able to lure star singers to Miami, among them Luciano Pavarotti, Sherrill Milnes, Beverly Sills, Judith Blegen and James McCracken. But he also kept the house open to young American singers. His policy was to have two casts, one with international stars, the other with promising newcomers. Another innovation was to offer alternating versions of operas, in English and the original language. He also expanded the repertory considerably by arranging to exchange productions with other companies.
        All these policies proved to be extremely successful: beginning in Mr. Herman's second season, the company consistently sold more than 90 percent of its tickets.
        Charles Robert Herman was born on Feb. 24, 1925, in Glendale, Calif. His father was Floyd Caves (Babe) Herman, an outfielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers and later a West Coast scout for the Yankees; his mother the former Ann Merriken. Mr. Herman attended the University of Southern California, where he studied opera with the director Carl Ebert. In 1953, on Mr. Ebert's recommendation, the Metropolitan Opera hired Mr. Herman as an assistant stage director and assistant stage manager. He quickly rose in the Met administration.
        In 1956 he became the focus of a dispute between the American Guild of Musical Artists and the Met when the union sought to discipline him, as a union member, for serving on the management's side during labor negotiations. The Met management threatened to cancel its season if Mr. Herman was disciplined, and the union eventually agreed not to take action.
        In 1957, when the conductor Max Rudolf left his post as the artistic administrator of the Met to become the music director of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, his job was split between Mr. Herman, who saw to the administrative side of the job, and Erich Leinsdorf, who took over Mr. Rudolf's conducting. As artistic administrator and assistant manager, Mr. Herman was in charge of juggling casts and budgets.
        He left his position when Sir Rudolf retired as the Met's general manager in 1972, and took up the directorship of the Greater Miami Opera the next year. In 1979, he proposed holding an international festival of music, dance, theater and the visual arts in Miami, and raised $4.2 million for his project, the New World Festival. With Mr. Herman as executive director, the 24-day festival in June 1982 presented 200 performances, including world premieres of 22 works.
        After his retirement as general manager of the Greater Miami Opera in 1985, he stayed on as the company's vice president for advocacy and development. He was named general manager emeritus in 1990. Besides his operatic activities, he was president of Opera America and a member of the Florida Arts Council.
        He is survived by his mother, Ann Merriken Herman of Glendale; a brother, Donald, of La Crescenta, Calif., and a sister, Dorothy McWhirter of Bell Canyon, Calif.
      