
        Dean Burch, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 1969 to 1974 and of the Republican National Committee in 1964 and 1965, died yesterday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Burch died of bladder cancer, said his son, Dean A. Burch.
        In April Mr. Burch, already ailing, was visited at his home by President Bush, on whose 1980 vice presidential campaign he had served as chief of staff.
        From 1987 until his death, Mr. Burch was director general of Intelsat, the global satellite consortium that runs a communications network in which 121 nations participate. In the preceding decades, he was a telecommunications lawyer, political adviser and lobbyist. White House Counselor
        Mr. Burch was the White House political counselor in the last months of the Nixon Administration in 1974, and during the early months of the Ford Administration.
        Earlier, he was an aide to Senator Barry Goldwater, Republican of Arizona, and helped run his unsuccessful campaign for the Presidency in 1964.
        Mr. Burch was named chairman of the F.C.C. by President Richard M. Nixon and while there was influential in improving television programming for children. As John J. O'Connor, the television critic for The New York Times, wrote later, Mr. Burch, "closely associated with Senator Goldwater's conservative wing, began making tough public speeches on the need for more and better programs for young audiences."
        "The networks inevitably took note," Mr. O'Connor said, "and one of the first results was a supplementation of the 'kid-vid' schedule on Saturday morning."
        Under Mr. Burch, the F.C.C. also carried out an influential study of whether one company should be allowed to own a daily newspaper and a television station in the same city. Based on the study's findings, the agency in 1975, after Mr. Burch had stepped down as chairman, unanimously prohibited the formation of new combinations of newspapers and broadcasting stations.
        Mr. Burch was handpicked to become Republican National Chairman by Senator Goldwater. But Mr. Goldwater's influence in the party waned after his defeat by Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1964 election, in which other Republican candidates also did poorly. Mr. Burch was eventually replaced as chairman after party moderates insisted that the party needed a "new look."
        Roy Dean Burch was born Dec. 20, 1927, in Enid, Okla., to Bert A. Burch and the former Leola Atkisson. He earned a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Arizona in 1953, was legislative and administrative assistant to Senator Goldwater from 1955 to 1959 and managed Mr. Goldwater's successful 1968 campaign to return to the Senate after giving up his seat to run for President.
        He was a partner in the law firm of Dunseath, Stubbs & Burch in Tucson, Ariz., from 1959 to 1963 and from 1965 to 1969, and a partner in the law firm of Pierson, Ball & Dowd in Washington from 1975 to 1987.
        Mr. Burch is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Meeks, whom he married in 1961; two daughters, Shelly Burch Bennett of Orlando, Fla., and Dianne Ruth Burch Butterfield of Arlington, Va.; his son, a sports marketing executive with a Washington radio station, and a grandson.
      