
        Gov. Richard A. Snelling of Vermont, a Republican who blended fiscal conservatism and concern for the environment during nearly nine years in office, died Tuesday night at his home in Shelburne, Vt., just south of Burlington.  He was 64 years old.
        Mr. Snelling's body was found by his state police driver near his pool about 8 A.M. yesterday.
        Dr. Paul Morrow, the State Medical Examiner, performed an autopsy yesterday afternoon and later reported that the Governor had died of cardiac arrest resulting from hardening of the arteries. Mr. Snelling died about 12 hours before his body was found, Dr. Morrow said.
        The Governor's chief of staff, Elizabeth Edwards, said Mr. Snelling's associates did not think he had suffered any previous heart problems.
        At 3 P.M. yesterday, Lieut. Gov. Howard Dean, 42, was sworn in to fill the rest of Mr. Snelling's term, which ends in January 1993. Dr. Dean, a Democrat who teaches medicine at the University of Vermont, had been Lieutenant Governor since 1987. In Vermont, the governor and the lieutenant governor are elected independently, and the lieutenant governor's position is part time.  Death Termed 'a Real Shocker'
        Among those mourning Mr. Snelling was a Democratic predecessor, Philip Hoff, who said: "His governorship in the last year came at a propitious time. We needed a person in that office who was a fiscal conservative while at the same time recognizing human need."
        In an appearance in Pittsburgh with Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, President Bush said: "It's a real shocker. He was a good man and a good Governor of his state."
        Mr. Snelling, a self-made millionaire, had barely begun his fifth two-year term. He had served four terms from 1977 to 1985, and decided to run again last year because of concern for the state's economic health.
        Most of his energy in the last five months was devoted to balancing the budget. At his urging, the Legislature passed the largest tax increase in Vermont's history, more than $90 million, while imposing deep cuts in programs. 'Constantly on the Move'
        "Mr. Snelling is not the kind of Vermonter who waits for the sap to start running in the maple trees," a reporter for The New York Times once wrote of the Governor. "He is constantly on the move. He flies his own plane and plays tennis aggressively, despite a knee injury he got while playing football at Harvard."
        Richard Arkwright Snelling was born on Feb. 18, 1927, in Allentown, Pa. After attending the University of Havana and Lehigh University, he served in the Army in 1945 and 1946. In 1948 he earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
        Mr. Snelling moved to Vermont in 1953, settling in Shelburne, where he founded Shelburne Industries, a manufacturer of ski equipment that made him wealthy. In 1959 and 1960 and again from 1973 to 1976, he served in the Vermont House of Representatives.
        He was elected Governor in November 1976. Admirers praised his record of attracting industry to the state.
        In 1978, after a large court award against a ski resort, Mr. Snelling signed a bill establishing in law what had long been believed in a state where the ski industry is vital: skiers are responsible for their own safety.  Concern for the Environment
        And in a state where land use and the environment are also constant concerns, he opposed a plan to allow mining for uranium and barred the sale of phosphate detergents, which pollute water by fostering the growth of algae.
        In 1981 and 1982, Mr. Snelling served as president of the National Governors' Association. In that role, he tried to cooperate with President Ronald Reagan's New Federalism, under which about 35 Federal programs were to be turned over to the states. The concept, Mr. Snelling said, was akin to the New England town meeting, making sure government stays close to the people.
        But he forcefully objected when Mr. Reagan did not offer Federal financing to support those programs and imposed budget cuts placing additional burdens on the states. He called the President's approach to cities and states "an economic Bay of Pigs."
        Mr. Snelling is survived by his wife, Barbara; two daughters, Diane, of Hinesburg, Vt., and Jacqueline Mansfield of Washington; two sons, Mark, of Richmond, Vt., and Andrew, of Sterling, Ill., and seven grandchildren.
      