
        Ralph W. Zwicker, a retired Army major general who was a central figure in the Senate's censure of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in 1954, died at a nursing home at Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 88 years old.
        General Zwicker died of a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported.
        He retired from the Army in 1960 and lived in Falls Church and McLean, Va., for many years before entering the nursing home two years ago. After his retirement, he was a military analyst with the Research Analysis Corporation in
        McLean.
        Several Medals for Service
        Until the mid-1950's, his career in the military was throughly conventional. He was a highly decorated veteran of World War II, having been awarded a Silver Star, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and the British Distinguished Service Order. In 1954, when he was a brigadier general, he was commanding officer of Camp Kilmer, in New Jersey.
        He was called to testify before Senator McCarthy's permanent subcommittee on investigations, which was examining the case of Capt. Irving M. Peress, an Army dentist from Queens under his command.
        In testimony, Dr. Peress, a draftee, invoked his Fifth Amendment right against compelled self-incrimination when he was asked whether he had ever been a communist. Shortly after, he received an honorable discharge and was promoted from captain to major.
        General Zwicker was later called to testify about the promotion, and Senator McCarthy, a Wisconsin Republican, accused him of perjury. At one point, the Senator said the general was "unfit to wear the uniform."
        It was the Senator's badgering of General Zwicker that provoked the Army to order the General not to return to the committee for further questioning and to challenge the Senator's assertions that communists had infiltrated the Army and were being protected by highly placed officers.
        The Army command asserted that Senator McCarthy was using his search for communists in the military to win favors for an aide who had been drafted. The dispute led to the Army-McCarthy hearings of 1954, and in December of that year, to the Senate's censure of Senator McCarthy. Led 20th Corps
        General Zwicker, who was promoted to major general in 1958, went on to serve in assignments in South Korea and the United States before retiring after a heart attack in 1960. At the time he was commander of the 20th Corps, a reserve unit, at Fort Hayes, Ohio.
        In a 1969 interview with Newsweek magazine, he said the accusations he endured at Senator McCarthy's hands had long-range effects on his life, health and Army career. He said that his promotion to major general, recommended in
        1954, had been delayed while the Federal Bureau of Investigation looked into Senator McCarthy's charges against him, and that he and his family were subjected to harassing telephone calls and letters.
        In the interview he said that before his ordeal "I was not unsympathetic with the Senator."
        He continued: "But then I was rapidly disillusioned. He was an opportunist who happened to stumble onto an idea. He climbed a political horse and rode it to death, his own included."
        General Zwicker's wife, Dorothy Stewart Zwicker, died in 1985. Survivors include two sons, Ralph L., of Reedville, Va., and Richard H., of McLean, a daughter, Jean Z. Durant, of Annandale, Va., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      