
        Dr. F. Brantley Scott, a urologist who developed the inflatable penile prosthesis to treat impotence in men, died Saturday when a light airplane he was piloting crashed while trying to land near his vacation home in San Marcos, Tex. He was 61 years old and lived in Houston.
        Dr. Scott was a professor at the Baylor University College of Medicine and chief of the urology service at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston. At a symposium in his honor last month, which drew medical specialists from around the world, he announced his intention to retire.
        Last Saturday Dr. Scott, an avid pilot, was flying a Quest-Air single-engine plane, which he had assembled from a kit, on a final test flight before taking it to the Oshkosh Air Show in Wisconsin this month. He was approaching the airstrip for a landing and was at an altitude of 150 feet when the engine stalled. The plane plunged to the ground, and he was killed instantly.
        In the early 1970's Dr. Scott invented the penile prosthesis. It has since been implanted in more than 100,000 patients, said Dr. Peter Scardino, a colleague at Baylor. The implant has also been used in female-to-male transsexual operations, supplying a penis capable of erection in place of the clitoris.
        A recognized authority on the science of bladder control, Dr. Scott also devised the artificial urinary sphincter, which has been implanted in more than 25,000 patients to prevent incontinence.
        Dr. Scott was born in Prescott, Tex., and received his medical degree from Yale University.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Karolyn McPeak; his mother, Ethel, of San Antonio; four daughters, Linda, of Boulder, Colo., Susan Kaufman of Charlotte, N.C., Kathy Dorran of Reston, Va., and Melissa Udelson of Houston; a son, Brantley, of Richmond; three sisters, Ellen, of Corpus Christi, Tex., Frankie Sprouse of Ennis, Tex., and Dorothy MacLean of San Antonio; a brother, Jack, of Fort Worth, and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 1, 1991, Thursday
        An obituary on Thursday about Dr. F. Brantley Scott misattributed the invention of the inflatable penile prosthesis to treat impotence. The first patent on it was granted in 1973 to Dr. Barish Strauch, who transferred development rights to American Medical Systems, with which Dr. Scott was associated. Dr. Scott developed the prosthesis, which has been implanted in more than 100,000 patients.
      