
        Larry Bogart, an influential critic of the nuclear power industry and editor of widely read newsletters published from the basement in his home, died yesterday at East Orange General Hospital in East Orange, N.J. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Bogart, whose given name was Herman, but who used Larry all his life, died of injuries from an accident on June 19 when he was struck by a vehicle, said his oldest son, Roger.
        Mr. Bogart was among the earliest and most knowledgeable independent critics of the nuclear power industry, beginning in the mid-1960's when he abandoned a career in public relations in New York to organize community groups and speak out about the hazards of using the atom to generate electricity.
        In 1966, Mr. Bogart founded the Citzens Energy Council, a coalition of community environmental groups that also published "Radiation Perils" and "Watch on the A.E.C.," newsletters on the Atomic Energy Commission and the nuclear industry. Both publications warned that nuclear power plants were too complex, too expensive and so inherently unsafe they would one day prove to be a financial disaster and a health hazard.
        Government officials joined utility executives and university experts in condemning Mr. Bogart's work as scientifically absurd, but the 1979 accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania underscored much of what Mr. Bogart had been saying.
        Mr. Bogart was born in Brooklyn on Jan. 20, 1914, the son of a printer. He was educated at Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire and spent two years at Harvard University. After serving as an infantryman under Gen. George Patton in World War II, Mr. Bogart became a public relations executive with the Allied Chemical Corporation, now Allied-Signal Inc., in New York in the early 1950's.
        Allied was an participant in the Government's efforts to promote nuclear power, and Mr. Bogart wrote many of the company's news releases and other material before his views changed.
        Mr. Bogart is survived by his wife, Florence, three sons, Roger of Avon, Conn.; James of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., and Steven of Worcester, Vt.; a sister, Mary Dicker of Boynton Beach, Fla., and three grandsons, Peter, Christopher and Tino.
      