
        Marshal Sergei F. Akhromeyev, chief military adviser to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and a top arms-control negotiator, was a reluctant reformer who steadfastly defended Communist ideology and the interests of the Soviet Army.
        His suicide on Saturday night at the age of 68 has left Soviet policy experts who knew him shocked and saddened. They suggested in interviews today that Marshal Akhromeyev had either supported the failed coup against Mr. Gorbachev, or was filled with anguish once his life's work as a Communist fell apart.
        The experts said any notion that he might have betrayed Mr. Gorbachev was hard to accept given Marshal Akhromeyev's professionalism, honesty and commitment to civilian control of the military, even when he disagreed with Government policy.
        "He was quite torn," said Adm. William J. Crowe, retired chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "He wanted to moderate the harsher features of Communism but didn't want to see the Socialist state disappear."
        Admiral Crowe, who developed a long personal relationship with Marshal Akhromeyev, recalled that two years ago the Soviet officer told him that the thought of socialism failing was one that depressed him.  'Intellectual Military Man'
        Stephen M. Meyer, an analyst of the Soviet military at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said: "He was a bright, intellectual military man and a moderate. But he did voice his opposition to some key aspects of Gorbachev new thinking on security. He opposed the nuclear-test moratorium and unilateral troop reductions."
        Born in 1923 to a peasant family outside Moscow, Sergei Fyodorovich Akhromeyev was described as a simple man who always insisted on making his bed and shining his shoes, even after he rose to high command.
        Associates say he took particular pride in the fact that he owned no property. He joined the Communist Party at age 20 and had served as a member of the party's Central Committee since 1983. His two daughters survive him, as does his wife, Tamara.
        Throughout his life, Marshal Akhromeyev spoke of the World War II battle of Leningrad, where he was wounded and lost some of his hearing, as the seminal event of his life. He said it was at that moment, as a teen-age soldier, that he saw the Communist Party and the Red Army become embodiments of Russian will and the Communist cause. He made his dedication to both institutions a lifelong pursuit.  Rising Through the Ranks
        Marshal Akhromeyev was one of the Soviet Union's finest military strategists and best-educated officers. He graduated from Frunze Naval College, the Military Academy of Tank Troops and the Military Academy of the General Staff. He rose through the ranks, serving as Deputy Chief of the General Staff from 1979 to 1984 and as Chief of the General Staff from 1984 to 1988.
        He led arms control experts and played an active role in the negotiations at the 1987 summit meeting in Reykjavik, Iceland, between Mr. Gorbachev and President Ronald Reagan. But he was reportedly unhappy with Mr. Gorbachev's proposals to sharply reduce strategic weapons.
        For the last three years he served as President Gorbachev's principal military adviser, concentrating on developing negotiating strategy for the strategic arms reduction treaty, signed at the Moscow summit meeting last month. Although he condemned the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, he criticized the timing of the American-led attack.
        Because Marshal Akhromeyev rose to the heights of the Soviet military in the early years of the Gorbachev era of openness, he was accorded rare access to American military installations and civilian life in the United States. During a 1989 tour of the United States, the Cherokee Nation made him an honorary chief and Oklahoma City put on a rodeo and barbecue in his honor.  Made Rounds in Washington
        He was the first Soviet officer to visit the Joint Chiefs of Staff Conference Room, and was a witness before the House Armed Services Committee, where he disclosed that the Soviet Union would cut tank production by 40 percent.
        American officials liked Marshal Akhromeyev for his interest in American history, and for the personal warmth he displayed even when he expressed tough views on arms control.
        Condeleezza Rice, a former staff member in the National Security Council, remembered joining Marshal Akhromeyev on a tour of the White House in 1989 when he good-naturedly added historical details to the commentaries of the official guide.
        Jay Coupe, a retired Navy captain who accompanied Marshal Akhromeyev on some of his American travels, said the Soviet soldier was "a dedicated Communist who clearly was greatly distressed by what was happening in his country."
        "He said he wanted the new relationship with the United States to be a 50-50 power-sharing relationship," Captain Coupe said. "But it was turning out to be 90-10."  SOVIET TURMOIL
      