
        Paul Miller, who presided over the Gannett Co. for 16 years as it grew into the nation's largest newspaper group, died Wednesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Miller, who had homes in Palm Beach and Pittsford, N.Y., outside of Rochester, died of pneumonia, according to The Assocated Press, which Mr. Miller also headed during his tenure as president and chairman of Gannett.
        He was the first employee of The A.P. to lead the news service, a cooperative operated for its member newspapers.
        Although much of his career was spent as an executive, Mr. Miller always thought of himself as a reporter. He was one of only three reporters who, in 1945, boarded an Army C-54 Skymaster, the "Globester,"for a 151-hour, globe-circling flight that took off and landed in Washington, D.C. The flight marked the opening of a weekly service by the Army's Air Transport Command and presaged global commercial service. Inspired Acclaimed Series
        Even after he became an executive, Mr. Miller seized opportunities to write a story. In 1971, while vacationing in the Far East, he interviewed Eisaku Sato, then Japan's prime minister, and filed a story.
        In 1963, while president of Gannett, Mr. Miller inspired a series of articles on the positive aspects of integration that would win a Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for his newspaper chain.
        Born in Diamond, Mo., on Sept. 28, 1906, Mr. Miller's career in journalism began when at the age of 15 he won a national editorial-writing contest for high school students. "Inflated by this triumph," he said, "I hung around the Pawhuska, Okla., Daily Journal until they gave me a job."
        Mr. Miller left Oklahoma A&M, now Oklahoma State University, to edit The Daily Leader in Okemah, Okla. Okemah "was a tough town," Mr. Miller once said. Readers there were not satisfied to write a complaining letter to the editor.
        "The phone would ring," Mr. Miller said, "and the call always went about like this: 'Is this the editor? Well, get set. I'm coming down to beat the hell out of you.'
        On March 10, 1932, Mr. Miller was hired as a rewrite man by The A.P.'s office in Columbus, Ohio. There he met Louise Johnson, an editor for The Columbus Journal, whom he would marry seven months later. Move to Gannett
        Over the next decade, Mr. Miller worked his way through a series of reporting positions with The A.P. to become the service's bureau chief in Washington.
        Mr. Miller joined Gannett in 1947, serving as executive assistant to the founder, Frank E. Gannett. He soon took on added duties as editor and publisher of The Rochester Times-Union in New York, an afternoon paper, and publisher its morning counterpart, The Democrat and Chronicle.
        Retaining his positions on the Rochester papers, Mr. Miller succeeded Mr. Gannett in 1957 as president and chief executive officer of the chain.
        The Gannett group then included 19 daily newspapers in four states. Under Mr. Miller's leadership, it began making acquisitions, not in big cities but in growing communities.
        By the time he became chairman of Gannett in 1970, the company's holdings included 53 daily newspapers in 16 states and on Guam. Gannett now owns 82 daily newspapers with a total circulation of 6.4 million, making it the nation's largest newspaper group.
        Mr. Miller's successor at Gannett, Allen H. Neuharth, devotes a chapter of his autobiography, "Confessions of an S.O.B.," to describing how he maneuvered to replace Mr. Miller as chief executive in 1973.
        Mr. Miller was elected president of The Associated Press, a part-time position, in 1963. The title was changed to chairman in 1972.
        That year, he and other executives of The A.P. negotiated an agreement with the Chinese news agency, Hsinhua, for the exchange of news and photos. It marked the first time in 22 years that an American news organization had established a regular news link with China.
        Mr. Miller retired as chairman of The A.P. in 1977, and as chairman of Gannett a year later.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Jean Miller Gordon; three sons, Ranne, Paul, and Kenper; two sisters, Elizabeth Wright and Louise Campbell; a brother, Horace; 10 grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      