
        Isador Perlman, a nuclear chemist long associated with the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and the University of California at Berkeley, died Aug. 3 at the John Douglas French Center for Alzheimer's and Related Diseases in Los Alamitos, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived in Albany, Calif.
        Dr. Perlman was credited with the discovery of several artificial isotopes. He was prominent in the research of alpha particle decay, one of three forms of radioactive disintegration of atoms, and in advancing the understanding of the energy-level structure of radioactive elements.
        He was born in Milwaukee, graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1936 and earned a Ph.D. in physiology there in 1940. He joined the faculty as an associate professor of chemistry in 1945, served as department head in the late 1950's and retired as a professor of chemistry in 1974.
        Dr. Perlman was associate director of the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, the forerunner of Lawrence Berkeley, one of the nation's leading scientific research centers, from 1958 to 1975 and was director of its nuclear chemistry division during those years.
        He then went to Hebrew University in Jerusalem as a professor of archeology and chemistry. His research had developed techniques of using neutrons to analyze the origin of ancient pottery, and he focused on this work while in Jerusalem.
        Dr. Perlman retired from Hebrew University in 1985 to return to Lawrence Berkeley. A spokesman for the laboratory, Frank Asaro, reported yesterday that Dr. Perlman had continued to work on neutron analysis in archeology and geology until about two years ago.
        Dr. Perlman is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Lee Grinblat; three daughters, Judith Guinasso of Port Townsend, Wash., Dr. Alice Perlman of Santa Rosa, Calif., and Dr. Paula Perlman of Austin, Tex.; two sisters, Lee Haberman of Los Angeles and Florence Maron of Long Beach, Calif., and one grandchild.
      