
        Victor F. Condello, who served three New York City mayors as the city's lobbyist in Albany, died on Tuesday at Albany Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Albany.
        He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Condello served as the lobbyist for Mayors William O'Dwyer, Vincent R. Impellitteri and Robert F. Wagner.
        In 1946, Mr. Condello, a lawyer, started out in the office of the city's Corporation Counsel as a law assistant. A year later, he went to Albany as assistant legislative representative. In 1950, he was promoted to the legislative representative's job he held until 1957.  A Walking Legislative Index
        It was Mr. Condello's duty to keep track of legislation affecting the city, to try to get some bills passed and others killed. He was a walking legislative index, reading mountains of legislation, often ferreting out such tidbits as a bill that raised the pay of an Oswego County judge and also raised travel allowances of all judges. This would have cost New York thousands of dollars because the city often imported county judges to fill in at city courts.
        Mr. Condello's importance was underscored in 1956. Before the age of laptop commuters or cellular telephones, the city's Board of Estimate voted Mr. Condello $595 to buy a portable dictating machine and transcriber with 100 dictating disks. While traveling to Albany, for instance, the Mayor could dictate thoughts on pending legislation and upon arrival could hand the disks to Mr. Condello.
        Mr. Condello once said the worst thing about the State Capitol was its hard floors, the tiled, marble corridors and stone stairs that he trampled over each working day for a decade. Formed Own Law Firm
        After resigning from his city post, Mr. Condello formed his own law firm, Condello, Ryan & Piscatelli. He became one of the highest paid lobbyists in Albany. Among his clients were the New York State Association of Railroads and the Foreign Life Insurers in New York.
        Last year, he joined the firm of Davidoff & Malito.
        Mr. Condello is survived by his wife, Vera, also a lawyer; a son, Victor F. Jr., of Albany; two daughters, Virginia, of Albany, and Dr. Veronica Coppola of Naples, Fla.
        Correction:  August 17, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about Victor F. Condello, a former lobbyist for New York City, misidentified his surviving daughters. They are Dr. Virginia Condello of Naples, Fla., and Veronica Coppola of Albany.
      