
        Bernard Castro, the man who "conquered space -- living space, that is" -- by inventing and then selling more than 5 million Castro Convertible sofas, died Saturday at his estate in Ocala, Fla. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Castro died of cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Bernadette, who became famous in New York as the little girl who opened the sofa with the "feather-lift mechanism" in commercials during the early days of television.
        Mr. Castro, an immigrant from Italy who never finished high school, was a genius not only at designing a piece of furniture vital to people in space-cramped apartments during the Depression, but at marketing his product.
        "By 1948, he discovered this new medium called television," said Ms. Castro, now president of the company. "There was just one station in New York, Dumont, and he was actually the first person to buy a local-spot commercial. When he called up and said, 'I want to put a commercial on TV,' they said, 'Go make one and bring it to us.' "
        "He had discovered by accident that I could open the sofa," Ms. Castro continued. "On a Sunday evening, he and my mother found me sleeping on one in the living room. My father said, 'You opened it for her.' She said, 'I thought you did.' "
        Born on Aug. 11, 1904, near Palermo, Sicily, Mr. Castro came to the United States with his father in 1919. He went to work as an apprentice upholsterer at a small shop in Manhattan, attending night school to learn English.
        In 1931, after saving $400, he opened his own shop in a loft on 21st Street. At the time, the only sofa that might be termed convertible was a clunky piece of furniture called a davenport. "It looked like a folded-up bed, and it was hard to open," Ms. Castro said.
        "It was the Depression," she added. "People couldn't afford larger apartments. My father saw the potential."
        Eventually, the 500-employee corporation based in New Hyde Park, L.I., would have two factories producing 100 designs and sell sofas out of 48 showrooms in 12 states. And Mr. Castro -- a short slim man with a quick wit and a hard-nosed attitude toward business -- became a millionaire.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Castro is survived by his wife, Theresa, and six grandchildren.
      