
        Barney Pressman, the legendary haberdasher whose savvy promotions and eye for fashion trends transformed a cut-rate men's clothing store into an emporium of expensive exotica, died on Saturday at St. Francis Hospital in Miami. He was 96 years old.
        One of seven siblings growing up on Elizabeth Street on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Pressman started pressing pants for 3 cents a pair in his father's clothing store and parlayed his skills into a business that is expected to sell almost $200 million of apparel this year.
        The Barneys legend, and Mr. Pressman's reputation for resourcefulness, began when a tiny store with 200 feet of frontage at the corner of Seventh Avenue and 17th Street in Manhattan announced its liquidation in 1923. Mr. Pressman's wife, Bertha, handed him her engagement ring and told him to pawn it to get the $500 to take over the store's lease and fixtures and buy 40 high-quality name-brand suits to sell.  Auctions and Odd Lots
        To stock the 500-square-foot store, Mr. Pressman resorted to auctions, bankruptcy sales and buying in odd lots because manufacturers had no interest in his out-of-the-way shop.
        But as he would time and again, Mr. Pressman turned the circumstances to his advantage. He sold well-made Hickey Freeman and Oxxford suits at a discount to salesmen and other less-affluent customers who had Champagne tastes but beer budgets.
        "The customers would ask him very politely and very discreetly to take the Barneys label out," recalled his son, Fred, who is president of Barneys. "They wanted to tell their friends they bought the suits at Saks."
        In the 1940's and 1950's, the makers of brand-name men's clothing controlled the distribution of their wares in major cities.  Manufacturers' Wrath
        Mr. Pressman found a way around that system. He traveled south, where he bought brand-name men's suits at bargain prices from independent retailers.
        He then incited the wrath of the manufacturers even further by advertising their well-known suits at bargain-basement prices.
        Mr. Pressman's sales promotions were as brash as the suits he sold were understated. A sign over the doorway of the original shop read, "No Bunk, No Junk, No Imitation," an incantation frequently recited by Barneys' senior management, many of whom are family members.
        "He was the Flo Ziegfeld of men's retailing in New York," said Alan G. Millstein, publisher of the Fashion Network Report, an industry newsletter. "He wrote the book on advertising and promotion in men's retailing, using the radio to summon his clientele to a very offbeat location."  Women Wearing Barrels
        Among other ploys, Mr. Pressman hired women to wear barrels and give away matchbooks stamped with his store's name and address, and he was one of the first retailers to use radio promotions. "Calling all men to Barneys," was one advertising refrain, a takeoff of the introduction to the "Dick Tracy" radio show. It quickly became a slogan among New Yorkers.
        Since he could not afford prime-time radio advertising, Mr. Pressman made the best of what he could buy. He began sponsoring programs featuring Irish bands playing jigs and reels. At the same time, he started adding heavier woolen jackets and suits to his stock.
        When he could not afford advertising, Mr. Pressman was not above plucking prospective customers off the sidewalks by his store. One of them, Himan Brown, who produced CBS Radio's "Mystery Theater" and radio classics like "Dick Tracy," remembered being sold a black overcoat with a fly front and a velvet collar for $65.
        "Who had $65 in 1934?" Mr. Brown said yesterday. "But you know, I still have that coat. He was a consummate merchant. Traub of Bloomingdale's and Jacobs of Saks, they have jobs, they're good at them, very good. But Barney, Barney is an institution."
        In the 1960's Mr. Pressman's son, Fred, began a metamorphosis of Barneys, arguing that it was time to take the store upscale.
        His father initially resisted. Once again, Mrs. Pressman weighed in, although this time she did not have to give up any rings.
        "She said: 'Barney, do you want to see what's going to happen with your money while you're still alive? Because you won't be able to see it when you're gone,' " recalled Roy A. Kramon, who founded the Majer Company, a men's apparel manufacturer.
        Fred Pressman, even while adding more costly suits, stuck to the principles his father established: promote quality name-brand merchandise and offer free alterations. But he also began drawing customers who sought out the store's keen selection of goods instead of its low prices. Shed Old Reputation
        Now the store's sales floors carry $450 suits and $2,000 suits and everything in between. Barneys added women's apparel in 1977, and elegant housewares, cosmetics and gifts.
        Barneys New York, as the store is now officially called, finally shed its reputation as a prime source of "good schlock" just in time to benefit from the brief frenzied flare of profligate spending that marked the end of the 80's. Would-be Gordon Gekkos were buying $2,000 Giorgio Armani suits and $125 ties like they were Sunday morning bagels, and Barneys had the selection to satisfy their voracious appetites.
        That success attracted the attention of Isetan, Japan's sixth-largest retailer, which formed a partnership with Barneys to take the stores across the country and around the globe. The venture was, of course, approved by Barney Pressman.
        Last year, Barneys announced plans to open a 230,000-square-foot store on Madison Avenue at 61st Street, finally moving uptown to the doorsteps of its fiercest competitors.  Velvet and Feathers
        Mr. Pressman had an unerring knack for spotting opportunities and understanding his customers. Fred Pressman recalled a trip to London in the 1960's with his father in which they strolled down Carnaby Street, lined with the outrageous psychedelic styles of the time.
        They stopped in front of a boutique selling men's jackets in velvet with feathers. "We've got to get that in the store," Fred Pressman remembered his father saying. "When I saw the merchandise, I thought it was kind of ugly, but he insisted, and, of course, he was right."
        Although he retired in 1975, Mr. Pressman kept in touch with the store, calling collect every day from his home in Miami Beach to ask: "What's selling? What's new? What's old?"
        "He called right up until a couple of weeks ago, when he started not feeling well," said Robert Pressman, the grandson of Mr. Pressman who handles the financial side of the business. Another grandson, Gene, directs the merchandising.
        Mr. Pressman's first wife, Bertha, died in 1972, a year after their daughter, Elizabeth, died. In addition to Fred Pressman of New York, he is survived by his second wife, Isabel, of Miami Beach; five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
        Services are to be held today at 2 P.M. at Central Synagogue at 123 East 55th Street in Manhattan.
      