
        Herbert Levine, a leading manufacturer of high-fashion women's shoes for nearly three decades, died on Thursday at his summer home in Westhampton Beach, L.I. He was 75 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.
        Mr. Levine ran the business he founded with his wife, Beth, in 1948, two years after their marriage, and left the designing to her. They called the company Herbert Levine, she recalled yesterday, because "the name sounded like a shoemaker."
        They won a Neiman-Marcus award and two Coty American Fashion Critics Awards for their innovations, which included backless shoes, shoes made of Ultrasuede, extremely pointed toes, all-in-one stretch boots and pants connected, all-over jeweled shoes and transparent vinyl shoes with Lucite heels.
        "He insisted the Lucite heels should have no screws showing," Mrs. Levine said. "He said 'You just find a way' and I did. I had to keep him amused. We had fun because he wouldn't fire me if I did something nutty."  Retrospective at Museum
        Herbert Levine shoes were worn by many famous women, including Jacqueline Kennedy, Pat Nixon, Lady Bird Johnson, Babe Paley and Liza Minnelli. The shoes were also worn on Broadway by Barbra Streisand in "Funny Girl," Gwen Verdun in "Sweet Charity" and Angela Lansbury in "Mame." The Levines also made shoes for fashion shows by Halston, Geoffrey Beene, Adele Simpson, Adolfo and Pauline Trigere.
        There was a retrospective of the Levine shoes at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1976, one year after the business closed. The couple later acted as consultants to the shoe industry.
        Mr. Levine was one of the first shoe manufacturers to have his own factories. Previously, shoes were made on a piece-work basis, but he wanted to keep the workers employed year round. The Levine shoes were made in New York, where Mr. Levine was born in 1916 and lived all his life.
        He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1937 and worked as a journalist for Gannett newspapers and various fashion trade publications before taking a job as sales and advertising manager for Andrew Geller, a shoe company. He met his wife when interviewing her for a design position. They were married in 1946.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Anna Thomson, of Manhattan.
        A private funeral will be held on Sunday at Riverside Memorial Chapel in New York. There will be a memorial service later.
      