
        Davis Factor Sr., who helped build his father's business, Max Factor & Company, into an international cosmetics empire, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 89 years old.
        He died of heart failure, said a daughter, Barbara Bentley.
        Davis Factor, the eldest son among Max Factor's six children, took control of the company when his father died in 1938 and stepped down as chairman when the family sold the business in 1972. While his father directly helped create the company's cosmetics and perfumes, Davis Factor concentrated on expanding the business.
        "He was associated with a period of great growth for the company," said Allan H. Kurtzman, a former Max Factor executive who is now president of the Neutrogena Corporation.
        Herm Schnitz, a Max Factor executive vice president who worked closely with Davis Factor, said Mr. Factor was an approachable executive, open to suggestions. "You didn't have to go through four secretaries to get to him," he said.
        Davis Factor was born in Poland and worked closely with his father from the early days of the company. Max Factor, a wig maker for a ballet company in Russia, moved his family to Los Angeles in 1909 and began selling wigs and makeup to the theater community.
        The birth of the film industry created new opportunities for Max Factor and his sons. When grease paint, the favored makeup of stage actors, proved unsuitable under the bright lights of the camera, the company developed the matte, water-soluble pancake makeup favored today.
        During World War II, when silk stockings were unavailable, the company made a tan-colored pancake makeup that women used on their legs in lieu of stockings.
        With Davis Factor as chairman, the company grew rapidly after the war, expanding into Europe and Japan. The family sold the business in 1972 to the conglomerate Norton Simon Inc. for about $480 million in stock. The company has since changed hands several times and was acquired by the Procter & Gamble Company for more than $1 billion earlier this year.
        Mr. Factor's wife, Anna, died in 1983. He is survived by three children, Davis Factor Jr. of Carmel, Calif., Mrs. Bentley of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Lita Kilpatrick, who lives outside Eugene, Ore.; 11 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
      