
        Martin H. Dubilier, an inventor who achieved prominence as an investor in poorly performing companies that he could fix up, died yesterday at the age of 65. He lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Fisher Island, Fla.
        He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the firm, Clayton & Dubilier Inc.
        Mr. Dubilier, known as "Dubie" to friends and colleagues, had been the chairman of the company, a New York investment firm which he helped found in 1978. The firm currently owns stakes in eight companies including O. M. Scott & Sons Company, the lawn-care giant, and Lexmark International, a typewriter and supplies business formerly owned by I.B.M.
        The son of William F. Dubilier, an inventor who had accumulated more than 300 patents in his lifetime, the younger Mr. Dubilier nearly followed in his father's footsteps. He invented a rust-resistant train track at the age of 12, an idea which Lionel bought and shelved just to protect what was then a lucrative market in replacement track. Six years later, he invented a low-voltage flash bulb that eliminated the need for battery packs. He also helped to develop the daisy-wheel printer while he was an executive of Friden Inc., a subsidiary of Singer.  A Quirky Sense of Humor
        He served in the Navy during World War II and was one of only a handful of survivors when a kamikaze plane crashed into the U.S.S. Mulaney and set it on fire.
        Intent on a career in business, Mr. Dubilier earned an engineering degree from Princeton University in 1950 and a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School in 1952. After stints at McKinsey & Company, the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, and Friden, he became the chief executive in 1968 of Kearney National Inc., a diversified manufacturer, where he delighted many of his colleagues not only with his sharp skills as an operator, but also with his quirky sense of humor and love of mischief.
        For instance, he once took great pleasure catering a Kearney board meeting by instructing his secretary to run out to a favorite hot dog stand on Vanderbilt Avenue and 46th Street in Manhattan and buy 30 franks.  Turning Companies Around
        "He didn't take himself very serious," said Andrall E. Pearson, a Harvard Business School professor who had known Mr. Dubilier for over two decades, since they both worked as consultants for McKinsey.
        Together with Eugene Clayton, who retired in 1985, Mr. Dubilier started a crisis-management firm in 1976, helping troubled companies that the pair thought it could turn around.
        But with the arrival in 1978 of Joseph L. Rice 3d as the firm's finance-oriented president, the firm eventually made a bigger name for itself in leveraged buyouts, the investment fashionable in the 1980's in which investors borrowed heavily to take companies private in the hopes of selling off undervalued assets or otherwise running the businesses more intelligently and profitably.
        Since 1978, the firm has purchased 16 businesses with combined sales of $10 billion -- including some that other buyout kings scorned such as Homeland Stores Inc. a marginally profitable, Oklahoma-based supermarket chain that was part of Safeway Stores until its owners at Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company put it on the block.
        "The difference was K.K.R. was really into the megadeal," said Bernard Black, a law professor at Columbia law school who sits on Homeland's board. "Martin was generally interested in building businesses and building companies, in helping them grow."
        Certainly, the company has performed well for its investors. Since 1978, it has produced compounded returns in excess of 100 percent a year.
        According to Mr. Rice, the company will buy out Mr. Dubilier's 28.6 percent stake. As a result, he and Alberto Cribiore will each own 40 percent of the firm and Peter F. Dolle, the other owner, will own 20 percent.
        Mr. Dubilier is survived two sons, Michael and William, and a daughter, Patricia Coughlin, all of New York; and one grandchild. His first wife, Mary Jane, whom he divorced, died in 1990. His second wife, Sandra, remarried after their divorce.
      