
        Robert F. Hanley, a leading civil trial lawyer who once won a $1.8 billion jury award in an antitrust suit against A.T.& T., died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago.
        Mr. Hanley, who was 67 years old, had returned to Chicago in July to start a new law firm. He was hospitalized about a week ago with an undiagnosed illness. An autopsy is planned to determine the cause of death, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Hanley won national attention as the lead lawyer for MCI, the long-distance telephone company, in the antitrust suit that culminated in a four-month trial against A.T.& T. in 1980. Mock Juries
        Using mock juries and market research consultants, he rehearsed his case before the trial. Based on the reactions of mock jurors, he made strategic revisions in his presentation.
        He found, for example, that when MCI cited a claim of $100 million in damages, that was what the mock jurors agreed to give. But with another panel, when he did not specify an amount, they voluntarily awarded an amount several times higher.
        In the actual trial, the jury awarded $1.8 billion, one of the largest awards ever recorded; after appeals, an an out-of-court settlement was reached for a lesser amount.
        "People in the field would agree he was one of the premier trial lawyers," said Warren Radler, a friend and fellow lawyer in Chicago.
        Mr. Hanley was a founder and former chairman of the American Bar Association's Litigation Section and former chairman of its Commission on Mass Torts. Corporate Law Specialist
        Mr. Hanley grew up in Evanston, Ill., and received his undergraduate and law degrees at Northwestern University, where his father was the head football coach.
        For 25 years Mr. Hanley practiced law in Chicago, where he was the head of litigation at the firm of Isham, Lincoln & Beale and later a litigation partner with Jenner & Block. In 1982 he moved to become head of the Denver office of Morrison & Foerster. He specialized in complex corporate cases.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan McLaughlin Hanley, an artist, of Chicago; a sister, Jean Jackson; three daughters, Kathleen Hanley-Creore and Marcia Hoover, both of Seattle, and Elizabeth Hanley of Chicago; and five stepchildren, David and Mary Bartos of Boulder, Colo., Joseph Bartos of New York City, James Bartos of Tucson, Ariz., and Peter Bartos of Camarillo, Calif., and several grandchildren.
      