
        Brad Davis, a stage, film and television actor who starred in "The Normal Heart," a polemical drama about the private and public fallout of the AIDS epidemic, died on Sunday at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 41 years old.
        He died of complications from AIDS, said his wife, Susan Bluestein, a casting director in Los Angeles.
        "Brad had known he was HIV-positive since 1985," she said. "We all kept this a secret because he was afraid that if it were known he had AIDS, he would never be able to work as an actor." She said that Mr. Davis had contracted the disease from his use of drugs when he was younger.  Golden Globe as New Actor
        Mr. Davis was born in Tallahassee, Fla. He was a graduate of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and studied acting with Wynn Handman at the American Place Theater in Manhattan. In 1978 he won a Golden Globe award for best new actor for his starring portrayal of Billy, the imprisoned hashish smuggler in the film "Midnight Express."
        He portrayed the American runner Jackson Scholz in the film "Chariots of Fire," and played the title role in "Robert Kennedy and His Times," a seven-hour mini-series on CBS.
        Mr. Davis also played the title role as a young sailor in "Querelle," Rainer Werner Fassbinder's last film, in 1983. Two years later his portrayal of Ned Weeks, a writer, in Larry Kramer's play "The Normal Heart" created a sensation at the Public Theater of the New York Shakespeare Festival. The play was one of the first to deal dramatically with the growing AIDS crisis.  His Recent Roles
        Last year Mr. Davis won praise as the eccentric pilot husband of the shoplifting wife played by Marianne Sagebrecht in the film "Rosalie Goes Shopping," directed by Percy Adlon.
        Mr. Davis completed his last acting job in June, a starring role in "A Habitation of Dragons," a drama by Horton Foote for the cable network TNT.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Alexandra; his brother, Gene, of Los Angeles, and his parents, Eugene and Annie Davis, of Tallahassee.
      