
        Paul Henry Lang, a renowned musicologist and music critic, died on Saturday at his home in Lakeville, Conn. He was 90 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his son Jeremy said.
        A pioneer in the field of musicology -- which was scarcely a field at all during his student years in the 1920's and 1930's -- he helped determine the shape of musicological discourse in the United States, through his writing, his teaching at Columbia University, and as the editor of Musical Quarterly from 1945 to 1973.
        Mr. Lang's "Music in Western Civilization" has been a standard text at American conservatories ever since its publication in 1941. The book's greatest value, though, is not the relative concision with which it presents streams of historical facts, but Mr. Lang's way of placing the music of an era within a broader social and cultural context.
        Mr. Lang also published a biography of Handel in 1966, and was widely read as the chief music critic of The New York Herald Tribune from 1954 to 1965, and later as a regular contributor to High Fidelity and Opus magazines.
        Mr. Lang was born in Budapest in 1901, and began his musical studies at the Budapest Music Academy, where his teachers included the composer Zoltan Kodaly. After completing his undergraduate work in 1922, he played the bassoon in Budapest orchestras for two years. But in 1924, encouraged by Kodaly and Bela Bartok, he began studying musicology. Because the subject was not taught in Budapest, he enrolled at the University of Heidelberg in 1924, and at the Sorbonne in Paris later that year.
        While at the Sorbonne, he participated in the 1924 Olympics as a member of the University of Paris rowing team. He earned a degree in literature in 1928, and moved to the United States the following year as a Junior Scholar of the Rockefeller Foundation. While teaching music at Vassar College in 1930 and 1931, and at Wells College until 1933, he worked on a dissertation in French literature and philology, with French opera as his specialty. He was awarded a doctorate by Cornell University in 1934.
        Mr. Lang joined the music faculty of Columbia University in 1933, and quickly began changing the way music was taught there by adding courses -- the esthetics of music, for one -- and by expanding the musicology department. When Bartok fled Hungary for the United States in 1940, Mr. Lang helped arrange for him to join the Columbia faculty as an ethnomusicologist.
        Mr. Lang remained at Columbia until 1970. During his 37 years there, he educated two generations of American musicologists. Among the most prominent of his students are Richard Taruskin, Neal Zaslaw, Rosengard Subotnik, Piero Weiss, James McKinnon and Joel Sachs. Provocative Articles
        He began his career as a writer and editor during his years in Paris, when he worked as an assistant at the Revue Musicale. In New York, he wrote frequently and sometimes provocatively for a variety of publications before succeeding Virgil Thomson as the chief critic of The Herald Tribune. Among his notable early articles was an attack, published in The American Scholar, on the American critical establishment, which he regarded as shallow, and a plea in The Herald Tribune for the revival of Baroque opera.
        Mr. Lang's writing was witty, brilliantly reasoned and cantankerous when dealing with trends in performance practice with which he disagreed. Although early music, for instance, was one of his specialties, he had little sympathy for the original-instrument movement that came to prominence in the 1960's and 1970's, and he wrote scathingly of performances that made special claims to authenticity.
        In addition to "Music in Western Civilization," "Georg Frideric Handel" and "A Pictorial History of Music," on which he collaborated with Otto Bettmann in 1960, Mr. Lang edited several compilations, including "The Creative World of Mozart" and "One Hundred Years of Music in America."
        For the last decade of his life, Mr. Lang suffered from a variety of health problems, but he continued to work on a book on performance practice in early music, which was unfinished at his death.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne Pecheux; two sons, Jeremy, of New York, and Christopher, of Fairfax Station, Va.; two daughters, Stephanie Martin of Boston and Adrienne Lang of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      