
        John Crosby, a novelist and former syndicated radio and television columnist, died on Saturday at his farm outside Esmont, Va. He was 79 years old and had lived there since 1977.
        He died of cancer, said a spokesman for the family, Cameron Hildreth.
        As an author, Mr. Crosby was known for novels of espionage, action and adventure. The New York Times critic Anatole Broyard, reviewing his 1983 novel "Men in Arms," about international arms dealers, wrote that "after seven suspense novels, John Crosby has mastered the form without surrendering his sensibility."
        As a columnist for The New York Herald Tribune from 1946 to 1965, Mr. Crosby was known for the wit and erudition of his commentaries on radio and television. In his later years with The Herald Tribune, he became a general columnist and was based for a time in Paris and then in London. 'Witty About the Witless'
        John Campbell Crosby was born on May 18, 1912, in Milwaukee, the son of Fred G. Crosby, who was in the insurance business, and the former Edna Campbell. He graduated from the Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire and studied at Yale, but left without a degree. He was a reporter with The Milwaukee Sentinel in 1933 and then with The Herald Tribune from 1935 to 1941.
        He then spent five years with the Army News Service, rising to the rank of captain, during World War II. After the war ended, he returned to The Herald Tribune, where he started writing about radio. He once observed that "a radio columnist is forced to be literate about the illiterate, witty about the witless, coherent about the incoherent."
        In 1952, after turning his hand to writing about television as well, he wrote that "television is in danger of repeating radio's great error -- underestimating the lettered few, which in turn will cost it the support of the cultured class of the nation."  Wrote for British Weekly
        In a review for The Herald Tribune of a book-length collection of Mr. Crosby's columns, "Out of the Blue" (1952), Lewis Gannett wrote: "Crosby is at his best when he engages in the art of amiable murder. He can, by his special personalized art of denunciation, make the most brainless radio program interesting, at least in its death pangs. He slays with zest."
        Mr. Crosby went on to be a columnist for a British weekly newspaper, The Observer, from 1965 to 1975.
        He was married to Mary B. Wolferth in 1946. They were divorced in 1959.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Katharine J. B. Wood, a former fashion editor of The Scotsman, a newspaper in Edinburgh; a brother, Frederick, of Jacksonville, Fla.; a sister, Anne Green of North Kingstown, R.I.; two sons, Michael, of Charlottesville, Va., and Alexander, of Esmont; and two daughters, Margaret, of Mill Valley, Calif., and Victoria, of Esmont.
      