
        Robert Irving, music director of the New York City Ballet from 1958 to 1989 and conductor for other major dance troupes including the Royal Ballet and the Martha Graham Dance Company, died Friday at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester, England. He was 78 years old and lived in Winchester.
        He died of a heart attack, said Diana Morrison-Corley, a niece.
        Trusted by dancers and admired by critics and his fellow musicians, Mr. Irving was perhaps the only important conductor of his time to establish his reputation primarily as a conductor for dance. He made the sounds that came from the pit more than a mere accompaniment for dancing, for he possessed a thorough understanding of musical architecture. Writing in The New York Times in 1966, Harold C. Schonberg pronounced Mr. Irving "possibly today's finest active conductor of ballet."
        Mr. Irving worked closely with at least three choreographers known for their musical sensitivity: Graham, George Balanchine of the New York City Ballet and Frederick Ashton of the Royal Ballet. Mr. Irving's wide tastes ranged from Bach and Mozart to such 20th-century composers as Stravinsky, Webern, Ives and Xenakis.
        He provided notable musical support for the New York City Ballet's Stravinsky Festivals of 1972 and 1982, its Ravel Festival of 1975 and its Tchaikovsky Festival of 1981. Under his guidance, the New York City Ballet Orchestra maintained such a high standard of excellence that Balanchine once said, "With our orchestra, if you don't like what you see, you can close your eyes and still hear a good concert."  World War II Service
        Born on Aug. 28, 1913, Mr. Irving was the son of Robert Graham Irving, who taught French and mathematics at Winchester College, which Mr. Irving himself attended before going to New College, Oxford. He received a B.A. from Oxford in 1935 and then studied in London at the Royal College of Music, where his teachers included Malcolm Sargent and Constant Lambert.
        In the late 1930's he worked as an accompanist and operatic coach, gave occasional piano recitals and was music master at Winchester. In World War II he served with the Royal Artillery, then with the Royal Air Force Coastal Command, and he twice received the Distinguished Flying Cross. After the war, he was associate conductor of the BBC Scottish Orchestra in Glasgow from 1945 to 1948.
        His regular association with dance companies began in 1948 when Mr. Lambert stepped down as musical director of the Sadler's Wells Ballet, as the Royal Ballet was then known. Mr. Irving was appointed the company's principal conductor, a post he held until he went on to the New York City Ballet. At the Royal Ballet Mr. Irving arranged music by Glazunov for Ashton's ballet "Birthday Offering" in 1956. He occasionally served as guest conductor for other groups, and he was a conductor for the New York City Ballet during its first London engagement, in 1950. During his years with the City Ballet, he was also guest conductor for the Royal Ballet, as well as for the Boston Ballet, the Geneva Ballet and the Paris Opera Ballet. Work With Martha Graham
        Mr. Irving first encountered Graham in 1959 when she and Balanchine choreographed the two-part "Episodes" for the New York City Ballet. She said of him that she admired his conducting because he knew how to "put the music under the dancers' feet." He conducted New York seasons for her regularly from 1960 to 1965 and again from 1974 to 1977.
        Mr. Irving made several recordings with the New York City Ballet Orchestra. Apart from his activities with dance groups, he conducted concerts by orchestras including the London Philharmonic, the Royal Philharmonic, the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the National Symphony of Washington, the Toronto Symphony and the Detroit Symphony.
        Beyond music and dance, Mr. Irving's interests included photography and bridge. Although a portly man, he was an avid mountain climber, and he owned several throughbred race horses. "The expense of keeping a horse is like putting a child through college," he once remarked. Then he added, "Rather more like four children."
        Mr. Irving received the Capezio Award in 1975 and the Dance Magazine Award in 1984.
        He is survived by a sister, Clare Peters, and two nieces, Ms. Morrison-Corley and Christina Perry.
      