
        Dr. John H. Lawrence, a discoverer of the dangers of nuclear radiation who went on to pioneer its use in diagnosing and treating cancer and other diseases, died Saturday at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 87 years old.
        His family said he died of complications from a stroke that he suffered two weeks ago.
        Dr. Lawrence founded the Donner Laboratory, the world's first research laboratory devoted to nuclear medicine. Brother's Collaborator
        The center was affiliated with the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, directed by his older brother, Prof. Ernest O. Lawrence, a Nobel laureate physicist who developed the cyclotron. The brothers were scientific collaborators and leaders in their specialties. Professor Lawrence died in the late 1950's.
        The Lawrence brothers were born four years apart in Canton, S.D., in a family that valued academics. Their father, a Latin teacher, and their mother, a mathematics teacher, were descended from immigrant Norwegian homesteaders in Minnesota. Several other relatives were also teachers.
        After graduating from Harvard Medical School, John Lawrence became an instructor in medicine at Yale University. There, he studied the effects of radiation on the pituitary gland. With Dr. Harvey Cushing, he performed experiments using estrogen, the first chemical found to help protect against radiation.
        In 1935, Dr. Lawrence followed his brother to Berkeley and carried out the first biomedical experiments with the mysterious new products of the cyclotron. With Dr. Paul Aebersold, he made the sobering findings that neutrons had a destructive effect on tissue and that the effect was five times greater than that of X-rays.
        At the same time, Dr. Lawrence was intrigued by the possible medical uses of isotopes and radiation beams. In 1936 he joined the University of California to create and head the research laboratory in Berkeley.
        Dr. Lawrence began experimenting with isotopes and high-energy particle beams as treatments. In 1937 he used phosphorus-32 isotopes to treat polycythemia vera, a disorder of the blood and bone marrow.
        In 1953 he flew to Yugoslavia to treat Aloysius Cardinal Stepinac for that disorder at a time when the Cardinal was under house arrest by order of Communist officials, who charged him as a Nazi collaborator.
        Dr. Lawrence and his colleagues began using neutron beams on cancer in 1939. That same year they also researched the role of iron-59 in blood metabolism and disease. He and co-workers discovered the narcotic properties of xenon gas for use as an anesthethic. His laboratory also had success in using cyclotron beams to treat acromegaly and Cushing's disease, disorders associated with irregularities in the pituitary gland, and several other illnesses.
        Dr. Lawrence was a member of the American delegation to the 1955 Geneva conference on the peaceful uses of the atom. The United States Department of Energy presented the Enrico Fermi Award to him in 1983 for his "pioneering work and continuing leadership in nuclear medicine." He was also honored by the Society of Nuclear Medicine, which he once led as president.
        Gov. Ronald Reagan of California appointed Dr. Lawrence to the state's Board of Regents in 1970, selecting him from a group of professors known for political conservatism. He served until 1983.
        Dr. Lawrence's wife, Amy, died in 1967. He is survived by four children, Dr. John Mark Lawrence of Long Beach, Calif., Dr. James Lawrence and Steven Lawrence of Alamo, Calif.; and Amy Sheldon DeRouvray of Paris, and eight grandchildren.
      