
        Lawrence Speiser, a leading civil liberties lawyer who successfully represented himself in a 1958 Supreme Court case involving loyalty oaths, died at his home in Washington on Friday. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Speiser died of cancer, said his son, Matt.
        Mr. Speiser was born in Toronto and was reared in New York and Los Angeles. He attended the University of California at Los Angeles before serving in the Army Air Force in World War II. After the war, he graduated from the University of California at Berkeley and received a law degree from the Hastings College of Law in San Francisco.
        He then went to work as staff counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union in Northern California and had a private practice in San Francisco. At that time, he represented witnesses called before the House Un-American Activities Committee.
        In one of his most highly publicized civil liberties cases, Mr. Speiser challenged on his own behalf the constitutionality of a California law that required veterans to sign a loyalty oath before they could receive special state tax exemptions.
        When the case, Speiser v. Randall, reached the Supreme Court, Justice William J. Brennan Jr. wrote for a 7-to-1 majority that by requiring veterans to take a loyalty oath, the state violated their right to due process.
        From 1959 to 1970, Mr. Speiser ran the Washington office of the American Civil Liberties Union. He testified before Congressional committees on First Amendment issues, like proposals to regulate pornography, and warned of Government encroachment on citizens' privacy.
        Afterward, he became chief counsel for the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency. Most recently, he worked in private practice, handling a number of cases in which his clients claimed discrimination by their employers because of their personal beliefs. He retired in March.
        Mr. Speiser is survived by his wife, Lane; his son, Matt; two daughters, Amy and Terry, and a brother, Zane.
      