
        Robert Bishop, a Broadway dancer who became an author, an educator and the director of the Museum of American Folk Art in Manhattan, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of AIDS-related lymphoma, said his companion, Henry Niemann.
        In 1977, two months after Mr. Bishop became the director of the folk-art museum -- then one of New York's smaller institutions, leasing a floor and a half in a brownstone at 49 West 53d Street -- he outlined his plans for its growth. Persuaded that small museums must grow or die, he sought to expand in several directions at once. "I came back to New York to rebuild the museum collection, to take the museum to a new location, and to establish it as a serious research and educational facility," he said.
        Many folk-art collectors, scholars and dealers rallied to help Mr. Bishop enlarge the museum and its programs. Others, however, criticized his efforts and the exhibitions he organized, which, he said in 1977, he hoped would have "box-office appeal and would attract a book contract." The first show under Mr. Bishop's direction, "Folk Art and Funk -- Andy Warhol's Folk Art World" was of objects from the artist's collection and was among the most publicized events ever held at that museum. A Time of Growth
        Mr. Bishop was the author or co-author of 23 books, 12 of which were written after he joined the museum. Under his leadership, the museum's membership increased from 2,000 to 6,000, and its 4-page newsletter, the Clarion, became a 64-page quarterly. The museum's collection grew to embrace 3,500 objects -- portraits, weather vanes, whirligigs, quilts and embroideries.
        Under Mr. Bishop, the museum began buying brownstones in 1979 and soon owned the building at 49 West 53d Street, where it had been a tenant,and five adjoining houses. When the site is cleared next year, construction is to begin there on the museum's future home at the base of a 22-story office tower designed by David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
        Under Mr. Bishop's direction, the museum organized hundreds of exhibitions, and many were adapted to travel.
        To further broaden public awareness of folk art -- and to raise money -- Mr. Bishop began a reproductions program in 1980 that became one of its most financially successful efforts. "The reproductions program has given us an endowment of about $3 million," said the museum's chairman, Ralph Esmerian.
        Always a showman, Mr. Bishop initiated in 1986 the museum-sponsored Great American Quilt Festival, which was repeated in 1989 and last May. The five-day event in 1989 attracted 25,000 participants to its exhibitions, lectures, contests and dealer's fair.
        The program of which Mr. Bishop said he was most proud was the one he spearheaded and participated in since its inception in 1980: the New York University Graduate Program in Folk Art Studies, the first such graduate program in the United States focusing on folk art as art, not ethnographic material. 'A Larger World'
        Mr. Bishop was born in Readfield, Me., and moved to New York City in the mid-1950's to be a dancer. "I saw television and realized there was a larger world out there," he recalled in a 1977 interview. He supported himself by selling antiques and dancing in Broadway shows, at the Metropolitan Opera and on television. He was awarded a scholarship at the School of American Ballet, where he studied from 1958 to 1960. In 1961 he left the stage to concentrate on art and antiques, first as a dealer in the three shops he owned or co-owned, and later as an editor, writer, teacher and museum curator.
        In 1969 Mr. Bishop joined the staff of the Greenfield Village and Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich., as curator of furniture, and a few years later he also became editor of its museum publications, positions he held until 1977. He was awarded a Ph.D. in American culture in 1975 at the University of Michigan, where he taught art history for two years.
        Mr. Bishop's interest in dogs -- especially Doberman pinschers and Manchester terriers -- was both personal and professional. Before joining the museum he wrote "The All American Dog -- Man's Best Friend in Folk Art." He was a founder of the Dog Museum of America, which opened in New York in 1981 and moved to St. Louis in 1988. He was active in the Doberman Pinscher Club of America and in the American Manchester Terrier Club.
        Mr. Bishop is survived by his brother, Richard E. Bishop of Bangor, Me.
      