
        Jan Josef Lipski, a Polish Senator who was a leading anti-Communist and a human rights advocate, died on Tuesday in a hospital at Cracow, in southern Poland, the Polish P.A.P. news agency reported. He was 65 years old and lived in Warsaw.
        The agency said a heart ailment brought the death of Mr. Lipski, who was also a historian and literary critic and held a Ph.D. degree in Polish Literature from Warsaw University.
        At the Polish Embassy in Washington, the press attache, Boguslaw Majewski, said yesterday that he played "a very significant role in the recent history of Poland, especially the political transformation that started a chain reaction in Eastern Europe."
        Though himself a longtime leftist, Mr. Lipski was prominent in the 1970's and 80's in what he once called, in a 1990 interview, "the fight against the strong enemy -- Communism."  Elected in 1989
        In June, 1989, with the Communist Party's grip on Poland slackening, he was elected to the Polish Senate, from the Radom region south of Warsaw, in elections that were his country's first exercise in more-or-less democratic balloting since before World War II.
        In 1976 Mr. Lipski was one of a dozen dissidents who founded the Committee for the Defense of Workers, known as K.O.R. by Polish initials in order to mobilize legal aid for workers who had been imprisoned after protests against price increases -- and to provide financial assistance to their families. The committee helped establish links between intellectuals and workers which grew more and more important during the rise of Solidarity movement in 1981. He went on to serve Solidarity as an adviser.
        In another Government crackdown on dissidence, Mr. Lipski was interned from late 1981 to the spring of 1982, when he was allowed to go to London for treatment of heart trouble. Later that year he earned admiration in Poland and abroad when he voluntarily returned to Warsaw to face sedition charges.
        A white-haired figure in a rumpled brown corduroy jacket and a green shirt, he arrived at Warsaw airport and crustily declared there that the charges were "absurd." He was then arrested, detained and let go again under an amnesty. Revives Socialist Party
        It was in 1987 that Mr. Lipski revived the old Polish Socialist Party of pre-World War II days. With him as chairman, it disputed the Communist Party's dominance and survived hostility from the Communist authorities of the day.
        The future Senator was born on May 25, 1926, in Warsaw. As a teen-ager, while Hitler's army occupied Poland in World War II, he was in the Polish resistance and the Polish Home Army. He was wounded in the anti-Nazi uprising in 1944 in Warsaw.
        His later career was varied, including stints as a librarian and in publishing and he had repeated troubles with the authorities. After taking his Senate seat, he became vice president of its committee on culture, mass media, education and science.
        In his spare time he enjoyed rowing and gathering data for a bibliography of works on his native land.
        His survivors include his wife, Maria, who is a retired editor; a son, Jan Tomasz, who is a sociologist and writer, and a daughter, Agnieszka, who is a psychologist.
      