
        Delos Wilson Rentzel, a leader in the development of American aviation as a Federal official and an airline executive, died Friday at St. Anthony's Hospital in Oklahoma City. He was 81 years old.
        His death was caused by pneumonia and complications of a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Rentzel served four years under President Harry S. Truman, who appointed him as the Civil Aeronautics Administrator, chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board, chairman of the Air Coordinating Committee, which was the nation's aviation policy board, and eventually as the Department of Commerce's Under Secretary for Transportation.
        Mr. Rentzel started his career as a radio installer and operator. He then rose rapidly in the fledgling airline industry, becoming communications director for American Airlines in 1941, when he was 31 years old. During World War II he advised the Navy and the Army on aviation and was named president of Aeronautical Radio Inc., an agency sponsored by the airlines to provide weather information and communications through a network of several hundred radio stations.
        In his Government career, he developed aviation communications in the United States and abroad, helped standardize military and civil aviation, advocated the use of technology to enable flying in poor weather, promoted radar to handle traffic, awarded funds for airport expansion, imposed penalties on unsafe airlines and predicted that jets would dominate air traffic long before that came to pass.
        He provoked controversy in 1948 by ordering an end to segregation at Washington's National Airport, where blacks were barred from the main restaurant and coffee shop. The concessionnaire, citing the racial laws of Virginia, at first refused to comply.
        After leaving government, Mr. Rentzel held a variety of business positions and expanded into trucking. He was a vice president of W. R. Grace & Company, a division president at Martin-Marietta, a director of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, the president of Auto Transports, the president of Slick Airways and the chairman of the National Automobile Transporters Association.
        In his business activities, Mr. Rentzel promoted the use of planes for cargo, and his Slick company was a pioneer in air freight. At a news conference in New York in the 1950's, he served food that had been harvested the day before in California, an impressive feat at the time.
        "Always his heart was in aviation," said his first wife, Marjorie Oster Rentzel of Dallas.
        Mr. Rentzel divorced after 40 years and married Janice Patterson. He is survived by her and three sons, Delos W. Rentzel Jr. of Oklahoma City; Thomas Lance Rentzel of Washington, a former Dallas Cowboys football star, and Christopher Rentzel of Dallas; a brother, William Rentzel, and a sister, Mabel Humphries, both of Dallas, and five grandchildren.
      