
        Thomas Tryon, a popular Hollywood actor who stopped acting when he became a best-selling novelist, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 65 years old.
        He died of cancer, said a spokesman for his publisher, Alfred A. Knopf.
        A tall, handsome man born to a prominent Connecticut family, Mr. Tryon evenly split his life between acting and writing. In both professions he achieved popular -- if not always critical -- acclaim and won a faithful following.
        Acting was his first career. After serving in the Navy in World War II, Mr. Tryon studied under Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse and worked on Broadway as an understudy in the 1952 musical "Wish You Were Here." Movie Became a Novel
        In 1955 he moved to California, and for nearly 16 years he worked in films and television, playing the title role in the movie "The Cardinal," directed by Otto Preminger, and acting with a chimpanzee in a Walt Disney movie, "Moon Pilot." He played the title character of a Disney television series, "Texas John Slaughter."
        But in the late 1960's, Mr. Tryon began work on what he thought of as a movie project that he could use to become a producer. Instead, he wrote his first novel, "The Other."
        That work, published in 1971, stayed on the New York Times best-seller list for more than six months and sold more than 3.5 million copies.
        A suspense story set in a small town in Connecticut much like Wethersfield, where Mr. Tryon grew up, "The Other" follows the travails of one family, whose members are slowly being killed off. The story examines the relationship between twin brothers -- one good, one evil -- and the possession of one soul by another. Takes Up Writing Full Time
        The novel was filmed in 1972. Mr. Tryon wrote the screenplay, but did not produce the movie.
        With the success of "The Other" behind him, he began to write full time.
        Mr. Tryon was born in Hartford in 1926 to Arthur Lane Tryon, a clothier, and Elizabeth Tryon. His ancestors included William Tryon, a Tory who was Governor of New York before and during the American Revolution. He graduated with honors from Yale with a degree in fine arts.
        Mr. Tryon was also the author of "Harvest Home," "Crowned Heads," "All That Glitters" and "The Night of the Moonbow." He told an interviewer about the rewards of writing: "When I began writing all that I had going for me was that I could type 80 words per minute, I could spell and I liked words. But in doing it, I found that the real reward was the writing itself, working at it day by day and finally accomplishing something -- that was it. To have a book published is one of the most exciting things that can happen to you. Infinitely more rewarding than acting." Working on Novel Series
        Despite his illness, Mr. Tryon recently met with his editor and typed and dictated revisions to the second and third novels of a proposed four-volume historical series dealing with 19th-century New England and China and collectively titled "Kingdom Come." The first work in the series, "The Wings of the Morning" was published last fall, and the next work, "By the Rivers of Babylon," is to be published in the spring. A novel for children, "The Adventures of Opal and Cupid," is to be published next year.
        Mr. Tryon was married briefly to Ann Noyes. He is survived by two brothers, A. Lane, of West Hartford, Conn., and William, of Farmington, Conn.
      