
        Martin H. Dubilier, an inventor who achieved prominence as an investor in poorly performing companies that he could fix up, died Wednesday at the age of 65. He lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Fisher Island, Fla.
        He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the firm, Clayton & Dubilier Inc.
        Mr. Dubilier, known as "Dubie" to friends and colleagues, had been the chairman of the company, a New York investment firm which he helped found in 1978. The firm currently owns stakes in eight companies including O. M. Scott & Sons Company, the lawn-care giant, and Lexmark International, a typewriter and supplies business formerly owned by I.B.M.
        The son of William F. Dubilier, an inventor who had accumulated more than 300 patents in his lifetime, the younger Mr. Dubilier nearly followed in his father's footsteps. He invented a rust-resistant train track at the age of 12, an idea that Lionel bought and shelved just to protect what was then a lucrative market in replacement track. Six years later, he invented a low-voltage flash bulb that eliminated the need for battery packs. He also helped to develop the daisy-wheel printer while he was an executive of Friden Inc., a subsidiary of Singer.  A Quirky Sense of Humor
        Mr. Dubilier served in the Navy during World War II and was one of only a handful of survivors when a kamikaze plane crashed into the U.S.S. Mulaney and set it on fire.
        Intent on a career in business, Mr. Dubilier earned an engineering degree from Princeton University in 1950 and a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School in 1952. After stints at McKinsey & Company, the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and Friden, he became the chief executive in 1968 of Kearney National Inc., a diversified manufacturer, where he delighted many of his colleagues with his quirky sense of humor and love of mischief. He once catered a meeting of the Kearney board of directorsby serving hot dogs from a nearby street stand.
        "He didn't take himself very serious," said Andrall E. Pearson, a Harvard Business School professor who had known Mr. Dubilier for over two decades, since they both worked as consultants for McKinsey. Turning Companies Around
        Together with Eugene Clayton, Mr. Dubilier started a crisis-management firm in 1976, helping to turn around troubled companies.
        But following the arrival in 1978 of Joseph L. Rice 3d as the finance-oriented president, the firm made a bigger name for itself in leveraged buyouts, the investment fashionable in the 1980's whereby investors borrowed heavily to take a company private in the hopes of selling off undervalued assets and generally increasing its profitability.
        Since 1978, the firm has purchased 16 businesses with combined sales of $10 billion -- including some that other buyout kings scorned. One such was Homeland Stores Inc., a marginally profitable, Oklahoma-based supermarket chain that was part of Safeway Stores until its owners at Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company put it on the block.
        "The difference was K.K.R. was really into the megadeal," said Bernard Black, a law professor at Columbia University who sits on Homeland's board, "and this just wasn't a big enough business. Martin was generally interested in building companies, in helping them grow.""  Good Returns for Company
        Clayton Dubilierhas performed well for its investors. Since 1978, it has produced compounded returns in excess of 100 percent a year.
        According to Mr. Rice, the company will buy out Mr. Dubilier's 28.6 percent stake. As a result, he and Alberto Cribiore will each own 40 percent of the firm and Peter F. Dolle, the other owner, will own 20 percent.
        Mr. Dubilier is survived by two sons, Michael and William, and a daughter, Patricia Coughlin, all of New York, and by one grandchild. His first wife, Mary Jane, whom he divorced, died in 1990. His second wife, Sandra, remarried after their divorce.
      