
        Doris Lilly, the author of "How to Marry a Millionaire" and a former newspaper society columnist, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of cancer, said Kurt von Schuschnigg, a friend and the executor of her estate.
        Ms. Lilly was a witty participant in the social whirl of charity balls and nightclubs she featured in her books and as a gossip columnist for The New York Post, the McNaught Syndicate and WPIX television in New York. An Inspiration to Capote
        "If it were true that money grew on trees, all my friends would be married to apes," she said. She once conceded that her columns were sometimes "silly" and that the people she wrote about were sometimes "shallow." But, she said, "they're pleasant and they smell good and they eat well and drink good wines, and that's all right."
        Friends said she was the inspiration for the Holly Golightly character in Truman Capote's book "Breakfast at Tiffany's."
        Her own first book, "How to Marry a Millionaire" (Putnam, 1951), became a hit movie starring Marilyn Monroe. Later, doing the updated "How to Marry a Billionaire" (Delacorte, 1984), she said: "A million dollars isn't much money these days. You can't even get a decent house for that."
        Ms. Lilly's often provocatively titled books included "How to Make Love in Five Languages" (Bobbs-Merrill, 1965), "Glamor Girl" (Woodhill, 1977, with Robin Moore as co-author) and "Those Fabulous Greeks: Onassis, Niarchos and Livanos (Cowles, 1970). 'Never Fond of Poverty'
        "She was never fond of poverty," wrote Cindy Adams, the New York Post columnist. Remarking on Ms. Lilly's skills in meeting rich people, Ms. Adams wrote that "when the rest of us were in camel's hair," Ms. Lilly received a prized sable coat from a male admirer "who was a little bit married."
        Ms. Lilly herself never married anyone, millionaire or otherwise. But she did socialize with the famous and powerful. Even in her youth as a contract actress for Cecil B. DeMille, she had an eye for up and coming people. She dated Ronald Reagan when he was between marriages to Jane Wyman and Nancy Davis.
        Three years ago, two letters that Mr. Reagan sent Ms. Lilly were auctioned at Sotheby's to Malcolm Forbes, the publisher, for $4,400. She said that "these letters were written during the period we saw each other, which went on for three years."
        Ms. Lilly, who was born in South Pasadena, Calif., attended public schools in Santa Monica. She had a continuing magazine career, working variously as beauty editor of Town and Country and a contributor to McCall's, Ladies' Home Journal, Cosmopolitan and, at the time of her death, Avenue.
        She was a columnist for The Post from 1968 to 1978, and a commentator for WPIX from 1974 to 1977. She was also a frequent guest on the Merv Griffin Show and television panel shows.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      