
        Dr. Paul N. Yu, former president of the American Heart Association and physician to the late Gen. Chiang Kai-shek, died on Tuesday in Taipei, Taiwan. He was 75 years old.
        He died after a long illness that was not specified, said a spokesman at the University of Rochester.
        Dr. Yu moved to Taipei in 1989 after retiring from the University of Rochester Medical Center, where he was chief of cardiology from 1957 to 1982. He headed the heart association in 1972 and 1973.
        Among the research and clinical topics Dr. Yu specialized in were cardiac catheterization to measure blood pressure and flow, blood circulation in the lungs and the use of drugs to treat heart failure and high blood pressure. Studied in London
        Dr. Yu served on the editorial boards of the American Heart Journal, Circulation and the Journal of Electrocardiology and was a senior editor of "Modern Concepts of Cardiovascular Disease," co-editor of the 16-volume Progress in Cardiology and author of the textbook "Pulmonary Blood Volume in Health and Disease."
        Born in Kiangsi, China, Dr. Yu graduated from the National Medical College of Shanghai in 1939. He then continued his studies in London before going to Rochester in 1947.
        While based in Rochester, Dr. Yu retained his Chinese ties. He often flew to Taiwan to treat that nation's leaders, including Chiang and his son, Chiang Ching-kuo. He also helped the Taiwan Government develop its Institute of Biomedical Sciences in Academic Sinica.
        During his career, Dr. Yu treated 5,000 patients and helped train many cardiologists. He was fond of quoting the Chinese proverb: "If you plan for a year, sow rice. If you plan for a decade, plant trees. If you plan for a lifetime, train and educate people."
        Dr. Yu's survivors include his wife, Dr. I-ling Tang Yu, a pediatrician, and four daughters, Pauline Yu Huters, the chairwoman of Asian studies at the University of California at Irvine, Judge Diane Yu of San Francisco, Lorraine Yu of East Hampton, Conn., and Corrine Yu of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      