
        Arthur W. Bernal, who under the name Stendahl was a food and restaurant critic for The Daily News and WNCN-FM radio, died Sunday morning at his home in Bayside, Queens. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Bernal died of a heart attack after several strokes, said his publicist, M. J. Boyer.
        Mr. Bernal, who was a native of Oakland, Calif., graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1935 with a degree in journalism. During World War II he made training films for the Army.
        After the war, he first worked for a cartoon company, then did freelance work for Corporate Image Films, producing promotional films for, among other clients, United Airlines, the Girl Scouts of America and the International Business Machines Corporation.  Hired as a Reviewer
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Bernal created his own company, Firebird Films, producing animated children's films including "Foolish Frog," based on a Pete Seeger song, and "Leopold, the See-Through Crumb Baker," both of which can still be found in many school libraries.
        During his filmmaking days, Mr. Bernal traveled around the world and became an expert on a variety of international foods. In 1968, based on that expertise, he became a ghost writer for the Stendahl Report, a newsletter that reviewed restaurants. Two years later, he bought the rights to the name Stendahl for $1, and was hired by WCBS-AM as a restaurant critic. He remained with the station for eight years.
        In 1977, Mr. Bernal was hired as a restuarant reviewer for The Daily News, writing the column "Stendahl on Food and Wine." He worked with The News until 1979. Wrote Several Books
        In June 1980, he went on the air at WNCN, broadcasting two-minute restaurant reviews twice a day. He worked there until 1989.
        Under the name Stendahl, Mr. Bernal was the author of six books, including "Best Restaurants, New York" (101 Productions Inc.), "The Official I Love New York Dining Guide" (Z Publications), "Spicy Food" (Holt, Rinehart & Winston) and "The Bombay Palace Cookbook," (Dodd, Mead.)
        He also wrote and produced two documentary films, "Stendahl's Wine Journey to Italy" and "Wine Journey to Alsace and Champagne."
        Mr. Bernal is survived by his wife, A. Janet Bernal, and two daughters, Victoria Woldemikael of Sea Cliff, N.Y., and Lindsay, of Manhattan.
      