
        Sir Andrzej Panufnik, a Polish-born composer and conductor who, with Krzyzstof Penderecki and Witold Lutoslawski, established a distinctive contemporary Polish style, but who left his country in 1954 in protest against restrictions on his freedom of expression, died at his home in London on Sunday. He was 77 years old.
        Sir Andrzej left a large and varied legacy that included 10 symphonies and many other orchestral works, several concertos, a catalogue of chamber works and a sizable body of choral and vocal music. Many of his works embodied extramusical associations, sometimes naturalistic, sometimes mystical and often political. His "Sinfonia Votiva," for example, was a response to the Gdansk shipworkers' strike and the Solidarity movement in Poland in 1980, and he dedicated his 1986 Bassoon Concerto to the memory of the Rev. Jerzy Popieluszko, a Roman Catholic priest who was tortured and killed by the Polish secret police. Conservative and Tonal
        Sir Andrzej's best music is dark and mysterious in texture and tone, although he composed outgoing and even exuberant music when it suited his purpose. His language was conservative and essentially tonal, with veins of expressive dissonance that give his works a rich emotional resonance. And he preferred to work in structures that were clear and easily grasped, if sometimes unorthodox. His most recent work is a cello concerto, completed two weeks ago. It is to be given its premiere in June 1992 by the London Symphony Orchestra, with Mstislav Rostropovich as the soloist.
        Andrzej Panufnik was born in Warsaw on Sept. 24, 1914. His father, Tomasz Panufnik, was a Polish instrument maker and author, and his mother, Matilde Tonnes, was an English violinist. It was from his mother that he had his first music lessons, and he was composing when he was 9 years old.
        From 1932 to 1936, Mr. Panufnik studied composition at the Warsaw Conservatory, and in 1937 and 1938 he studied conducting with Felix Weingartner at the Vienna Academy. He also studied in Paris and London in 1938 and 1939. During World War II, he performed as a pianist in illegal underground concerts, and composed patriotic songs. All of his early works were destroyed in 1944.  A Conducting Career
        He began his conducting career in 1945, when he was appointed director of the Cracow Symphony. He became director of the Warsaw Symphony in 1946, and toured frequently as a guest conductor of both Polish and Western orchestras.
        Mr. Panufnik's compositions soon began attracting attention in Poland and abroad. Leopold Stokowski began performing works by Mr. Panufnik in the United States in the late 1940's, and continued to program them until 1970, when he led the world premiere of "Universal Prayer," a setting of an Alexander Pope poem, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan.
        In Poland, Mr. Panufnik's works won several official awards, including the Szymanowski Prize for his Nocturne (1947), and the Chopin Prize for his "Sinfonia Rustica" (1949). He was given state prizes in 1951 and 1952, and his "Heroic Overture" won a gold medal at the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki. He was a vice president (with Arthur Honegger) of the Unesco International Music Council from 1950 to 1953. He was also the vice president of the Association of Polish Composers, and he headed cultural missions to the Soviet Union in 1950 and to China in 1953.
        Yet in the early 1950's, Polish culture officials began to look askance at some of the experiments in tonality that Mr. Panufnik and his colleagues were pursuing. They also began to challenge Mr. Panufnik's choice of texts. His 1951 "Symphony for Peace," for example, was criticized for including a choral setting of a prayer instead of a call to patriotic defense. A New Home in London
        In July 1954, while in Zurich to conduct some of his own works, Mr. Panufnik slipped free of his escorts and made his way to London, where he was granted asylum. A month later, he wrote two articles for The New York Times in which he explained his reasons for leaving Poland, and painted a heart-rending picture of life in his homeland, as well as in the Soviet Union and China.
        "It is not easy for a man to cut himself off from his country and his people," he wrote. "It is perhaps even more difficult for one who, like myself, has made a certain name there and received recognition as a creative artist. But Freedom counts for much, and indeed is so important, particularly for the artist, that life without it becomes unbearable. That is the case in Poland today."
        London was his home for the rest of his life. Between 1957 and 1959, he was music director of the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, but when he left that post, he resolved to devote himself fully to his own works, which he continued to conduct as a guest of orchestras in Europe and the United States. He became a naturalized British subject in 1961, and was knighted for services to British music this year.
        His work was not well-known in the United States until the early 1980's. But his "Sinfonia Votiva," composed for the Boston Symphony, attracted considerable attention, and was recorded by the orchestra. In New York, Gerard Schwarz offered his music in his Music Today programs, and in 1988 and 1989, Mr. Panufnik conducted Mr. Schwarz's New York Chamber Symphony in programs of his recent works. His most recent visit to the United States was to conduct the Chicago Symphony Orchestra in the world premiere of his Symphony No. 10, in February 1990.
        Sir Andrzej is survived by his wife, Camilla Jessel; a son, Jeremy, and a daughter, Roxanna.
      