
        Addison Gayle Jr., a critic of black American literature and distinguished professor of English at Baruch College and the City University Graduate Center, died Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital North in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in East Orange, N.Y.
        He had been hospitalized for six weeks and suffered complications from pneumonia, said his wife, Lou Ethel Roliston.
        Professor Gayle was the editor of "The Black Aesthetic," a 1971 volume of essays, and wrote biographies including "Richard Wright: Ordeal of a Native Son" (1980), which documented the Government's longtime surveillance of Wright because of his political beliefs.
        Other works included "The Way of the New World: The Black Novel in America" (1975), the autobiography "Wayward Child: A Personal Odyssey" (1977), and biographies of Paul Laurence Dunbar, Claude McKay and W. E. B. Du Bois, the last recently completed and unpublished. A Profound Influence
        In a recent interview in Clarion, a publication of the faculty union at City University, Professor Gayle said Wright had had a profound influence on his life. Wright demonstrated, he said, that "a black could succeed and that you could succeed by being honest." And he said he admired Wright's "concern for people, his honesty and his belief that the individual, being part of the human family, has an obligation to speak out."
        Professor Gayle said opportunities for black writers today had increased "probably for the wrong reasons." Finding little difference between the works of white writers and those of many black writers, he said both were often "self-centered and lacking in the sense of social responsibility," which he called essential.
        Speaking of his youth in Newport News, Va., he said: "One of my great fears in growing up was that I would end up in the electric chair. That's what happened to blacks who did not conform."
        "I didn't accept the status quo," he told Clarion. "I always questioned things. And I was always being warned that I would get into trouble." His Early Books
        He served in the Air Force, then settled in New York City, held some low-paying jobs and enrolled at City College. He received a bachelor's degree there in 1965 and, the next year, a master's degree in English, with a specialty in the 18th century, at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        He began teaching at City College in 1966 and was named distinguished professor of English in 1980. His early books included "Black Expression: Essays by and About Black Americans in the Creative Arts" (1969), "The Black Situation" (1970) and "Bondage, Freedom and Beyond" (1971). He wrote numerous articles and lectured widely.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four sisters: Dorothy Matthews and Yvonne Koonce, both of Hampton., Va.; Mary of Newport News, Va. and Debra Innis of Colorado Springs, Colo.
      