
        William A. Shea, the politically powerful lawyer whose efforts to bring National League baseball back to New York culminated in both the Mets and in the stadium bearing his name, died Wednesday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and also lived in Sands Point, N.Y.
        He died of complications from a stroke he suffered two years ago, his family said.
        Mr. Shea, a burly and affable man with a firm handshake for messengers and moguls alike, never held elective office. Nor, he bragged, had he ever really practiced law in the conventional sense. Around his office, people jokingly speculated whether he even knew where the courthouse was.
        But for five decades Mr. Shea was a confidant of governors, mayors and corporate chieftains. His ties helped him build one of New York's largest and most influential law firms, Shea & Gould, whose clients include Toys "R"Us, the Apple, Crossland and Marine Midland banks and the Yankees and the Mets. Charm and Threats
        For most of his career, Mr. Shea maneuvered around the crepuscular world of back rooms, board rooms and banquet halls. By far his most public role began in 1957, when Mayor Robert F. Wagner enlisted him to help the city fill the void left when the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants headed to California. Mr. Shea's efforts helped produce the Mets, who began play in the Polo Grounds in 1962. Two years later they moved into a new home in Flushing Meadows, Queens, named William A. Shea Stadium in his honor.
        Mr. Shea's longtime law partner, Milton S. Gould, said the idea of naming the stadium for Mr. Shea was Mayor Wagner's. "There never would have been a stadium if it hadn't been for Bill," the Mayor said at the time. "It would probably still be a parking lot."
        The task of obtaining a new baseball franchise for New York, which Mr. Shea accomplished through a combination of charm, street smarts, bluffs and threats, was one for which he was peculiarly well suited, and not just because he was a passionate sports fan. Though his resume was heavy with official appointments, affiliations, encomiums and awards, it omitted his most vital attribute: his knack for bringing people and interests together. Political Matchmaker
        "He is the city's most experienced power broker, its premier matchmaker," Nicholas Pileggi declared in a 1974 profile in New York magazine, "a man who has spent 40 years turning the orgies of politicians, bankers, realtors, union chiefs, underwriters, corporate heads, utility combines, cement barons, merchant princes and sports impresarios into profitable marriages."
        Mr. Pileggi described Mr. Shea as "the unofficial chairman of the state's unofficial permanent government," and as someone who throughout his career had "labored quietly in a political twilight somewhere between the private interest and the public good."
        Just as Mr. Shea survived various regimes at Shea Stadium -- whoever was in charge, from Casey Stengel to Bud Harrelson, each Opening Day Mr. Shea presented a floral horseshoe to the Mets manager -- he survived decades of political vicissitudes at City Hall. He was a close confidant of Mayors Wagner, John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame. He was also a trusted adviser of former Governor Hugh L. Carey.
        Shea Stadium is the only major league ballpark named after a lawyer, and Mr. Shea once jokingly predicted that it would be renamed 15 minutes after he died. But when two City Councilmen proposed a decade ago that the stadium be renamed after Jackie Robinson, the man who broke baseball's color barrier, Mr. Shea mounted a quiet campaign to quash the idea. Basketball Scholarship
        William Alfred Shea was born in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan on June 21, 1907. After attending public schools, Mr. Shea studied at New York University on a basketball scholarship before transferring, on another athletic scholarship, to Georgetown University. He received his law degree from Georgetown in 1931, and was admitted to the District of Columbia bar that year. He joined the New York bar the following year.
        At the beginning of his legal career Mr. Shea became closely associated with George V. McLaughlin, the head of Brooklyn's Democratic Party, and held several posts in the state's insurance regulatory apparatus. In 1941 he entered private practice. In the late 1950's, largely under the auspices of William J. Casey, later the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mr. Shea became re-acquainted with Mr. Gould, a classmate at George Washington High School who had become a prominent trial lawyer. 'Blarney and Chutzpah'
        The two formed the 22-lawyer firm of Shea, Gallop, Climenko & Gould in 1964. The firm changed its name several times after that until, in 1979, it became known simply as Shea & Gould. "It's no great secret that this firm is run by Mr. Shea and myself," Mr. Gould said then. "For the first time, the name of the firm is accurate."
        The two were an odd match -- a strange combination of "blarney and chutzpah," an observer once said. But their firm grew exponentially -- by 1990 it had nearly 300 lawyers -- stocking itself not just with the usual corporate lawyers and litigators, but with politically connected understudies. "If you had to count the five law firms in New York with the most political clout and connections, Shea & Gould would arguably be one, two and three," said Wendeen Eolis, a law practice consultant in New York.
        Far from hiding his unconventional practice, Mr. Shea prided himself on the fact that he and his partners played hardball just as surely as his boys at Shea Stadium -- for most of the time, a good bit better. "We're not statesmen," he told Mr. Pileggi. "We ain't white shoe." But what he saw as savvy others considered unsavory. In their 1983 book "The Permanent Government," Jack Newfield and Paul DuBrul called Shea & Gould "a factory of legal graft" whose specialty was helping clients in "getting around the law without breaking the law."
        In recent years both Mr. Shea and Mr. Gould passed responsibility for the firm's management to younger lawyers. Also recently, Shea & Gould has experienced difficulties, due largely to the poor real-estate market and its own expensive lease. With layoffs, dismissals and departures, the firm has lost 51 lawyers in the last year.
        Mr. Shea's lifelong interest in sports was fueled in part by his high school Spanish teacher, whose nephew, Herb Pennock, was a star pitcher for the Yankees. Mr. Shea did some legal work for the Brooklyn Dodgers and owned a minor league professional football team on Long Island before World War II.
        In December 1957, with New Yorkers still smarting over the loss of the Giants and Dodgers and Mr. Wagner facing re-election, the Mayor named Mr. Shea to lead a four-member committee of "prominent citizens" to "corral a National League team."
        Mr. Shea, the sportswriter Leonard Koppett wrote in his 1970 history of the Mets, "went to work with remarkable effectiveness." First, he tried enticing three existing National League clubs -- Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and Philadelphia -- into moving to New York. When that failed -- and when he grew convinced that the National League, which had had eight teams since 1900, was unwilling to expand -- Mr. Shea set about creating a third professional baseball league, which he called the "Continental League."
        The new league would have had eight teams -- including Toronto, Atlanta, Denver, Houston, Minneapolis as well as New York -- and would have been headed by Branch Rickey, the former general manager of the Dodgers. It was, in some ways, an elaborate bluff; few actually expected the new teams ever to take the field. But the major league owners, unwilling to risk their treasured exemption from Federal antitrust laws, gave in anyway.
        In August 1960, Mr. Shea and Mr. Rickey were summoned to a meeting of baseball owners in Chicago, and the major leagues agreed to absorb four new teams from the stillborn new league, including what would become the New York Mets. Four years later they moved into Shea Stadium. Mingling of the Waters
        For the christening ceremony, Mr. Shea filled two empty champagne bottles with water -- one from the Harlem River, near the old Polo Grounds, and the other from the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. Though you could not see the canal from Ebbets Field, he explained, you could always smell it.
        Mr. Shea retained his interest in sports, and was considered in 1965 to succeed Ford Frick as the baseball commissioner. He helped the city fight to keep the Jets in Shea Stadium, and maintained his interest in the Mets, appearing this season in a wheelchair for the induction of Cleon Jones into the team's Hall of Fame.
        In addition to politics, law or sports, Mr. Shea was active in many charities, including Fordham, Georgetown and Yeshiva Universities, and a spate of other philanthropic activities. Each year he provided free Mets tickets -- along with $5 for hot dogs and snacks -- to hundreds of New York children.
        Mr. Shea is survived by his wife, the former May Nora Shaw; a son, William Jr., of Manhattan; two daughters, Kathy Anfuso of Portland, Ore., and Patricia Ryan of Manhattan; a sister, Gloria S. Stroh of Jacksonville, Fla., and eight grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held on Wednesday at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue and 84th Street at 10:30 A.M.
      