
        Lloyd K. Garrison, a lawyer from a distinguished family who built an extraordinary record of individual achievement and public service, died at his home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Garrison was the great-grandson of William Lloyd Garrison, the abolitionist, and the grandson of Wendell Phillips Garrison, the literary editor of The Nation. His father, Lloyd McKim Garrison, a lawyer, and his mother, Alice Kirkham Garrison, were pillars of New York society.
        Mr. Garrison was schooled at St. Paul's and at Harvard and Harvard Law School, where his brilliance and social connections brought an offer from the law firm of Elihu Root, one of the leading figures of the country's elite establishment.  Leading Social Causes
        But Mr. Garrison's interests, seemingly indefatigable energy and commitment to progressive social causes took him far beyond the life of the Wall Street lawyer.
        Mr. Garrison, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, was a very successful Wall Street lawyer. But he was also at various times a law school dean, a crusading and innovative Federal investigator and administrator, a civil rights and civil liberties advocate, a close adviser to a Democratic Party standard-bearer, and a political reformer who took on and bested the Democratic Party machine in New York City.
        Mr. Garrison was a friend of some of the most powerful establishment figures in 20th century America -- Root, Judges Augustus and Learned Hand, Adlai Stevenson. He was called to government service several times by Presidents Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his successor, Harry S. Truman. He served on numerous Federal agencies and commissions.
        Yet Mr. Garrison was a stalwart champion of expanding economic opportunity and increasing citizen participation in political life. He was influential in an early and landmark National Labor Relations Board ruling that required employers in collective-bargaining negotiations to bargain exclusively with the representatives selected by a majority of employees. The ruling was later made part of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Garrison, as a member of the Democratic Reform Movement in New York City, played a significant role in ousting Carmine DeSapio as the county Democratic leader. In national politics he was a stalwart supporter of the Presidential candidacy of Mr. Stevenson, a longtime friend.
        Mr. Garrison joined the National Urban League in 1924, which he said opened his eyes to the realities of racial discrimination in America, and was its president from 1947 to 1952.
        That commitment remained through the decades.
        In 1968 after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Mr. Garrison wrote a letter to The New York Times in which he stated that Dr. King "in the last years of his life" realized that "civil rights legislation and court decisions were not enough to wipe out discrimination and inequality; that the ravages of poverty had to be dealt with on a massive scale; (and) that the cleansing and transformation of the our inner cities was the first order of business and the establishment of peace was indissolubly linked with these objectives."
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Garrison, a longtime member of the American Civil Liberties Union, defended the poet Langston Hughes and the playwright Arthur Miller when they were summoned by Senator Joseph McCarthy before the House un-American Acitivities Committee. And he defended J. Robert Oppenheimer when the Atomic Energy Commission -- for whom Mr. Garrison had been a special consultant in the 1940's -- sought to remove Mr. Oppenheimer's security clearance.
        Mr. Garrison lived a super-charged life. But his friends invariably described him as a somewhat shy man with a self-effacing manner.
        "I've never planned my life," he said in the early 1960's. "I've taken things as they've come along. For me life has been a series of accidents."
        "I like to be of use," he went on, "but I don't consciously go out to serve."
        Others recognized what Mr. Garrison, in his modesty, would not acknowledge, and he was constantly called upon to be "of use:" " as a partner of Paul, Weiss, which he joined in 1946, and in a broad array of volunteer activities.
        The calls began early in his career. After college, interrupted for service in the Navy, law school and his settling on Wall Street, Mr. Garrison was asked by the City Bar Association in New York to investigate incidents of "ambulance chasing" and bankruptcy fraud by lawyers.  Bankruptcy-Fraud Inquiry
        His work gained such prominence that President Herbert Hoover appointed him to a special Federal commission investigating bankruptcy-fraud across the country.
        That began a career of Federal service in the 1930's -- including helping start the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Garrison at the time was actually employed outside the Government, as dean of the University of Wisconsin Law School, where his efforts at improving the school's standing drew widespread praise.
        Among his many activities over the years, Mr. Garrison was a member of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University, and a trustee of Sarah Lawrence College, and Howard University, and a member of the Council of Foreign Relations and the City Bar Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Ellen; two daughters, Clarinda Garrison and Ellen Shaw Kean, and a son, Lloyd McKim Garrison, all of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held on Monday at 12:30 P.M. at All Souls Unitarian Church, at 80th Street and Lexington Avenue in Manhattan.
        Correction:  October 4, 1991, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Lloyd K. Garrison, a New York civic leader and lawyer, misstated his age. He was 93.
      