
        Robert Colangelo, a retired chief of New York City detectives, died on Sunday at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in North Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 60 years old and lived in Ossining, N.Y.
        Mr. Colangelo died of a heart attack, the funeral home said.
        Several high-profile cases were investigated during Mr. Colangelo's tenure as chief of detectives from January 1987 until his retirement in November 1989, including the killing of Michael Griffith in the Howard Beach racial assault and of Yusuf K. Hawkins in the Bensonhurst racial assault. Other well-known investigations under his direction were the Jennifer Levin Central Park murder case and the murder of Police Officer Edward Byrne, who was shot while guarding the house of a witness in a drug case.
        "He was involved in a lot of the big cases, in directing the resources of the detective bureau and bringing the cases to a successful conclusion," said Chief of Department David W. Scott, who described the "Colangelo School of Managerial Philosophy: personal attention to important matters, follow-up and do what makes sense."
        After Mr. Colangelo retired from the Police Department, he went to work at Alexander's Inc. as vice president in charge of security. Robin Farkas, chairman of of Alexander's, said yesterday that Mr. Colangelo "very quickly integrated himself into the corporate culture and became in a very short time one of the most popular executives in the company."
        Mr. Colangelo joined the Police Department in 1954 as a foot patrolman in the 103d Precinct in Jamaica, Queens, and rose to Chief of Patrol in 1985. He was one of the first officers assigned to the Tactical Patrol Force, which concentrated on high-crime areas, and later served in supervisory positions in the Internal Affairs Division, the First Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Office of Organized Crime Patrol.
        He had also been the commander of the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, Queens; the commander of Brooklyn Detectives, and the chief of patrol for southern Brooklyn.
        Mr. Colangelo is survived by his wife, Marilyn; two daughters, Carrie and Nicole, and a son, Robert, all of Ossining, and three brothers, Thomas, of Massapequa, L.I.; Louis, of Palm Coast, Fla., and Peter, of Colorado Springs.
        A Mass will be said at 10 A.M. Thursday at St. Theresa's Roman Catholic Church in Briarcliff Manor.
      