
        John G. Burnett, former head of the Rockefeller Center Development Corporation and the New York State Urban Development Corporation, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        He joined Rockefeller Center Inc., now known as The Rockefeller Group, in 1976, and the next year became president and chief executive of its real-estate development subsidary. He continued in those posts until he retired in 1989.
        During his tenure at Rockefeller he helped plan several major developments, including the Wells Fargo building in Los Angeles, the Renaissance Center Phase II in Detroit and the International Trade Center in Mount Olive, N.J. He also helped in selling the Exxon building in Manhattan to Mitsui Fudosan in 1986, in buying the Time & Life Building the same year and in negotiating the lease renewal that kept NBC at Rockefeller Center in 1987. Adviser to David Rockefeller
        He also served as a real-estate adviser to David Rockefeller, particularly on the development of the Embarcadero Center in San Francisco.
        Before working for the Rockefeller Group, Mr. Burnett spent seven years as an executive of the state's urban development agency, eventually becoming its president and chief executive. Among the projects he oversaw was the high-rise community created on Roosevelt Island in the East River between Manhattan and Queens. He was also in charge during the troubled period when shaky finances forced the agency to reorganize.
        Born in Milwaukee, Mr. Burnett was an honors graduate of Princeton University and Yale Law School. After graduation he served two years as a law clerk to Justice William O. Douglas on the United States Supereme Court.
        For the next eight years he was the general counsel to the United States Agency for International Development, with special responsibility for aid to underdeveloped nations. For the next nine years he was executive vice president of the Development and Resource Corporation in New York City, after which he was hired by the state urban agency in 1969.
        His survivors include his wife, Jane Holmer Burnett; three sons, John S., of St. Petersburg, Fla., Anthony M., of New Canaan, and Mark H., of Bloomington, Ind., and a daughter, Barbara Jean Berman of Bridgeton, N.J..
      