
        Homer Jensen, a pioneer in aerial searches for oil and minerals hidden underground and beneath the seas, died Saturday at his home in Wyncote, Pa. He was 77 years old.
        His family said he died of cancer.
        Mr. Jensen joined the Aero Service Corporation in 1946 and spent the next four decades directing surveys of every continent except Antarctica with ever more sophisticated instruments. The company, founded in 1917, became a principal in airborne mapping the world over, and Mr. Jensen achieved international recognition for his role in the mapping.
        Mr. Jensen graduated in 1935 from the University of Chicago, where he trained as a physicist. He first worked as a professional photographer in Cincinnati and founded the photographic department of the Procter & Gamble Company. Co-Inventor of Magnetometer
        In World War II, he returned to scientific subjects working for the Navy. Assigned to a team devising weaponry for U-boat hunters, Mr. Jensen was co-inventor of the magnetometer, a device that detects metallic objects by measuring slight distortions in the earth's magnetic field.
        Recognizing its wider potential, he put the device to commercial use for Aero Service in 1947. Its first such application came on a survey conducted for some of the world's biggest oil companies in the waters off the Bahamas, and subsequent surveys conducted by him established the airborne magnetometer as a tool for the mining industry in the quest for new ore deposits.
        Mr. Jensen went on to direct major surveys of the North Sea, Alaska's North Slope, Venezuela, Australia, the Middle East and Africa, foreshadowing the development of important new oil fields and mineral deposits.
        He turned his attention to aerial radar in the 1970's to produce images that covered large areas of the earth, piercing cloud covers and helping countries with land masses impervious to traditional photography. New technologies he helped Aero Service develop in partnership with the Goodyear Aerospace Corporation allowed the Brazilian Government, for example, to map the whole of Brazil accurately for the first time.
        Mr. Jensen held 19 United States and foreign patents and was working on another one at the time of his death. He also was a contributor to scientific and technical journals.
        Mr. Jensen is survived by his second wife, Claire Forest; a brother, John, of Goldsboro, N.C.; his five children by the late Jeanne Darack Jensen: Peter, of Ardmore, Pa., Judith Jensen of Rochester, Vt., Kristina Creighton of Wyncote, Lauren Jensen of Chestnut Hill, Pa., and Jeannie Jensen of Elkins Park, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      