
        William Harvey Dinkins Jr., the father of New York's Mayor, David N. Dinkins and a retired real-estate broker in Trenton, died on Friday night at the Delaware Valley Medical Center in Langhorne, Pa. He was 85 years old and was a longtime resident of Trenton.
        Mr. Dinkins died of cardio-pulmonary arrest, said Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary. The Mayor, who went to the hospital Friday night, canceled his appearances scheduled for yesterday.
        William Dinkins moved north from Newport News, Va., in 1925, looking for work and settling in New Jersey with his first wife, Sally. They had two children, David and Joyce.
        The elder Mr. Dinkins's first job was in a cable factory in Trenton. Soon he became a local barber, and his shop was a popular gathering place in a neighborhood of three-story attached houses. Raised Family in Trenton
        He also became known in the community through his activities in fraternal, civic and church organizations. He was a 33d Degree Mason, a member of the executive board of the Trenton chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, a member of the ethics committee of the Mercer County Board of Realtors and a member and trustee of the Shiloh Baptist Church in Trenton.
        Eventually he started a second career as a real estate and insurance broker that lasted more than two decades. He retired two years ago as the owner and managing broker of Dinkins Real Estate in Trenton.
        When David Dinkins was 6 years old, his father and mother separated. His father remained in Trenton, and initially the children moved to Harlem with their mother. But they attended school in Trenton and grew up mostly at the home of their father and stepmother, Lottie Hartgell, a schoolteacher.
        Young David had hoped his parents would reunite. When Mr. Dinkins remarried, the son recalled years later, "I thought I would die." The Mayor alluded to his childhood during the recent rioting in Crown Heights when he speculated that many youths were from one-parent families and added "as was the case with me, frankly."
        When his son was elected Mayor of New York City in 1989, Mr. Dinkins praised his calm, quiet temperament. "He never was a loud type of person," said his father, then 83 and living on Spring Street in North Trenton. "He thought way ahead before he spoke." The father said David was a well-behaved youngster. "I never had to spank him or anything like that," he said. Not the Political Sort
        Mr. Dinkins was quoted by The Trenton Times in 1989 as wishing for his son's success running for mayor. But he added, "I wouldn't want that job for a billion dollars. It's New York, and I don't like politics." Neither did he want David following in his father's footsteps. "I certainly didn't want him to be a barber," the elder Mr. Dinkins said, "not when I was only getting 25 cents a haircut, that's for sure."
        At the celebration of his son's victory, Mr. Dinkins beamed. "I'm so proud I don't know what to say," he said.
        Mr. Dinkins's first and second wives are deceased. Besides his two children, the Mayor and Joyce Belton, of Trenton, he is survived by six grandchildren and five great grandchildren. The funeral will be at 8 P.M. Wednesday at the Shiloh Baptist Church, 340 Calhoun Street in Trenton.
      