
        Bill Graham, who escaped Nazi Germany to become America's leading promoter of rock musicians and who helped develop the mass rock concert format that drew audiences totaling in the millions, was killed Friday in a helicopter crash about 25 miles northeast of San Francisco. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Graham was one of three people who died when their helicopter hit a 200-foot utility tower and crashed in a fiery explosion about 10 P.M., said officials of his company, Bill Graham Presents.
        The charred remains of the Bell Jet Ranger helicopter, which had been flying over marshes near Vallejo, were still tangled in the power lines yesterday. Electricity to 23,000 homes was disrupted for hours. The other two victims were the pilot, Steve Kahn, and Mr. Graham's companion, Malissa Gold. They were returning to the rock impresario's home in Corte Madera after a concert, by Huey Lewis and the News, which he had promoted.  Influence Across Media
        For a quarter of a century, Mr. Graham was a central figure in organizing, producing and marketing rock music across the nation and around the world in all formats from live concerts to records, films, videos and television shows.
        He first gained fame in the 1960's presenting concerts at the Fillmore theater in San Francisco and later at its East Coast spin-off, the Fillmore East, a seedy old vaudeville theater on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Eventually he shut down the theaters but continued his business, based in San Francisco.
        As the popularity of rock grew, Mr. Graham pressed into the vanguard of the emerging phenomenon of rock concerts staged in large arenas, outdoor stadiums and parks.
        He helped the careers of fledgling groups, and the headliners of his shows were a compendium of rock and folk music stardom: the Rolling Stones, Sly and the Family Stone, Jefferson Airplane, Santana, George Harrison, the Doors, Jimi Hendrix, the Allman Brothers Band, Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, the Grateful Dead, Janis Joplin, Joan Baez, Joe Cocker and Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, among many others. Money for Social Causes
        He also directed many concerts and tours that raised millions of dollars for a variety of social and political causes.
        They included a legal defense fund for student protesters arrested at Columbia University in 1968, the 1985 Live Aid concert to fight famine, the 1976 Save Our Cities concert, two Crack-Down concerts at Madison Square Garden in 1986 against drug abuse, and the 1986 Conspiracy of Hope tour and 1988 Human Rights Now international tour, both for Amnesty International.
        In 1987 he staged a July Fourth American rock concert in Moscow, where nervous Soviet officials ordered thousands of soldiers to ring the stadium as as a precaution.
        Known as a hard-driving businessman with a personality as mercurial as some of the stars he placed on stage, Mr. Graham also had a reputation for demanding high standards, whether in the acoustics produced by the sound equipment or the quality of his musicians' performances.
        He delved into numerous sidelines, from mechandizing T-shirts and souvenirs to commissioning concert posters that have now become collectors' items and works of art in their own right.
        Mr. Graham's beginnings were perilous. He was born Wolfgang Grajonca to Russian Jewish emigrants in Berlin, and two days later his father was killed in an accident. Eventually, his mother placed Mr. Graham and one of his sisters in an orphanage.
        As World War II tore through Europe, the two children fled through France. Mr. Graham made it, but his 13-year-old sister starved to death along the way, which he said made him feel guilty for the rest of his life. He later learned that his mother and another sister were killed in gas chambers in Germany. Awarded for Service
        Adopted by a family in the Bronx, he graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School. Drafted into the Army in the Korean War, he was court-martialed twice for minor violations but went on to win the Bronze Star and Purple heart in combat duty.
        He worked as a cab driver in New York and received a degree in business administration from City College. He went to California to work as a statistician for the Southern Pacific Company, and his other jobs included being a paymaster for a construction contractor and statistician for a trucking company.
        But show business lured him, and quit his job in 1964 to become the business manager of the San Francisco Mime Troupe. When local censors banned a show in 1965, he raised money for legal fees by staging a benefit in a loft. It was so successful that he organized two more benefits, using the old Fillmore. Soon he was producing regular concerts, psychedelic lighting effects were introduced, and a new subculture and form of entertainment were born.
        He was married and divorced, to Bonnie McLean, in the 1960's and they had one child, David. He is also survived by another son, Alex; a stepson, Thomas Sult, and three sisters, Rita Rosen, Esther Chichinsky and Sonia Svobl.
      