
        Ben Hill Willingham, a retired president of two apparel and textile giants, Genesco Inc. and Burlington International, died Sunday at Memorial Hospital in Savannah, Ga. He was 77 years old. A former resident of Nashville, New York and Zurich, he lived in Savannah in retirement.
        He died after a long illness, the family said.
        Mr. Willingham was born in Hagan, Ga., into a family long prominent in Georgia. After attending Vanderbilt University, he went to work in 1933 for the General Shoe Corporation, a small Nashville manufacturer. Moving up the corporate ladder, he became president in 1958 and was credited with playing an important part as the company mushroomed into a Nashville-based empire. In the 1960's, he was presiding over the country's largest apparel manufacturer and distributor, with billion-dollar-plus yearly sales.
        In its years of vigorous growth, the company bought up makers of children's wear, women's dresses, men's and women's playwear and swimwear. To reflect that expansion, the corporation dropped the "Shoe" from its name in 1959 and became Genesco Inc. Mr. Willingham remained president of the new entity.
        He retired as Genesco's president and chief executive officer in 1969, citing a "continuing health problem."
        But he joined Burlington Industries Inc., the textile giant, later that year as vice president for corporate planning. In 1970, he became president of Burlington International and began to divide his time between Zurich and New York. Retiring in 1975, he continued to act as corporate counselor to companies in Europe and America. In 1980, he settled in Savannah.
        Over the years, Mr. Willingham was a director for various coporations, including Tiffany & Company and S. H. Kresge and Company in New York City. He also was active in cultural, civic and charitable organizations wherever he lived, serving as a trustee of the Fashion Institute of New York, a board member of the National Mental Health Association, a director of the symphony association in Nashville, and an official of the Methodist Church.
        Mr. Willingham is survived by a son, Ben Hill Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla.; a daughter, Susan Simons of Nashville; a sister, Susan Thompson of Savannah, and six grandchildren.
      