
        Joseph H. Axelrod, a textile manufacturer and philanthropist, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital North. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan and Washington, Conn.
        Mr. Axelrod died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Born in Boston, Mr. Axelrodwas a graduate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He followed his father into the family's textile business in the 1930's, and eventually became one of New England's leading manufacturers of textiles. He was an innovator in adding color and design to the previously all-white bed sheet. Employed Thousands
        Mr. Axelrod employed thousands of workers at a number of factories, the largest of which was Wamsutta Mills in New Bedford, Mass.
        The family also owned "Crown College," the name Mr. Axelrod gave to Crown Manufacturing in South Attleboro, Mass. With its attractive stone headquarters, surrounded by green lawns, Crown resembled a university campus. In keeping with the college spirit, Mr. Axelrod put a nameplate with the word "Prexy" on the door of his office.
        Faced with a shortage of workers during World War II, Mr. Axelrod offered scholarships to his employees and their families in an effort to retain and recruit workers.
        Competition from abroad and from American textile mills in the South eventually undercut the textile business in New England, leading Mr. Axelrod to sell his mills in the 1950's. Invested in New York Real Estate
        In more recent years, he invested in real estate in New York and also owned and operated parking garages and car rental agencies.
        Through much of his life, he and his father were major contributors to Brandeis University -- his father, James, was one of the first seven trustees of the university, which was founded in 1948. They were also substantial contributors to the Combined Jewish Philanthropies in Boston. The son was a director of the New Milford Hospital in Connecticut and the Phoenix Foundation in New York.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Heidi Neuhoff; two daughters, Dr. Penny Axelrod of Albany and Kathy Axelrod of New York City; a son, Jeffrey Joseph, of San Francisco; a brother, Alan, of Weston, Mass.; a sister, Gladys Wolfe, of Newton, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      