
        Carroll M. Williams, a biologist at Harvard University who worked out the fundamental principles of how insects develop from eggs through successive larval stages into adults, died last Friday in Watertown, Mass. He was 74 years old.
        Dr. Williams died of lymphoma, the university said.
        Dr. Williams, considered to be a pioneer in insect physiology, discovered how hormones control the precise growth of an insect from one point to the next, keeping the insect immature if necessary, or spurring the final metamorphosis of, for example, a cocooned silkworm into a moth.
        He discovered the basics of juvenile hormone, a vital molecular signal that prevents an insect from progressing to the next developmental stage too quickly, and he traced the secretion of the hormone to crucial regions in the insect's brain. An analogue of juvenile hormone is now used as a relatively safe means of pest control.
        Dr. Williams's work also laid the foundation for the study of chemical communication between insects and of the chemical defenses that plants use to ward off insects that attack them.
        "His contribution to the understanding of hormonal control of insect metamorphosis was enormous," said Dr. Thomas Eisner, an evolutionary biologist who studies insect and plant interactions at Cornell University. "His work was so definitive that nobody ever had to repeat it. What others would do in 12 papers, he could do with one."
        Dr. Williams focused much of his effort on the giant silkworm moth, analyzing development by grafting together parts of moth pupae taken from different stages of growth. By mixing and matching segments, he was able to learn when and where certain hormones were secreted and how those molecules affected moth maturation.
        He also invented novel techniques for performing insect surgery, chief among them a new type of insect anesthesia.
        Dr. Williams received his bachelor of science degree from the University of Richmond and his Ph.D. and M.D. from Harvard. For his doctoral dissertation, he rigged up a tiny device of razor blades and a transverse bar that allowed him to measure the horsepower of a fruit fly.
        He is survived by his wife, Muriel, of Lexington, Mass., and two sons, Wesley C. and Roger L. Williams.
      