
        Gene Tierney, the elegant actress whose beauty bewitched a tough detective in the 1944 film "Laura" and whose portrayal two years later of a diabolically selfish woman in "Leave Her to Heaven" won her an Academy Award nomination, died Wednesday night at her home in Houston. She was 70 years old.
        Miss Tierney died of emphysema, a spokesman for the family said.
        Miss Tierney had undergone years of treatment for stress and depression. She retired from films in 1965 after making "The Pleasure Seekers," but made at least two television appearances after that. She told reporters that she preferred her life in Houston as the wife of W. Howard Lee, an oil man whom she married in 1960. He died in 1981. Trying to Cope
        A year before her marriage to Mr. Lee, when reporters found her working in a dress shop in Topeka, Kan. (a job she took as part of her psychotherapy at the Menninger Clinic there), she told them she attributed her illness to "my lack of understanding of what I could cope with and what I could not. . . . I tried to work harder and harder, thinking that work would cure everything. All it did was make things worse."
        With her blue-green eyes, brown hair, prominent cheekbones and what many young men of the 1940's regarded as the most appealing overbite of the day (Miss Tierney said her movie contract stipulated that her slightly protruding front teeth were never to be fixed) she won plaudits for her patrician look but some criticism for her acting.
        Even in "Laura," which more than any other movie established her as a major star, Miss Tierney was faulted by some critics. In that film, a detective (Dana Andrews) falls in love with the portrait of a woman he believes has been murdered. For the first 30 minutes of the film, he and the other characters merely talk about her; then they discover she has not been murdered, and the character appears on screen.
        For Thomas P. Pryor, who reviewed the film in The New York Times, Miss Tierney's entrance was a bit of a letdown. She did not "measure up to the word portrait of her character," he wrote.
        Nevertheless, Miss Tierney received much praise over the years for the freshness and disarming directness she brought to her portrayal of Laura. The film is still regarded as a classic of its genre.
        Among the critics who liked her work was Bosley Crowther, who in 1939 had first seen her perform in the Broadway comedy "Ring Two," by Gladys Hurlburt. She was not yet 20 years old and not long out of finishing school, and she had only a supporting role, but Mr. Crowther wrote in The New York Times that he thought she had talent.
        Whatever talent she had she decided not to use on Broadway. She went to Hollywood in 1941, signed a contract with 20th Century-Fox and built her career there. Among her other motion picture credits are "The Return of Frank James" (1940), "Belle Starr" (1941), "The Shanghai Gesture" (1942), "Heaven Can Wait" (1943), "A Bell for Adano" (1945), "Dragonwyck" (1946), "The Razor's Edge" (1946), "The Ghost and Mrs. Muir" (1947) and "The Left Hand of God" (1955).
        Gene Tierney was born on Nov. 20, 1920, in Brooklyn, to Howard S. Tierney, a successful Manhattan insurance broker, and the former Belle Taylor. Miss Tierney was educated at Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Conn.; St. Margaret's School in Waterbury, Conn., and at a finishing school in Lausanne, Switzerland. Even with all the propriety that surrounded her upbringing, her grade-school teachers noted that she liked to mimic them, and at St. Margaret's she was regarded as the "class romantic."  Background Showed Through
        For some critics who reviewed her films, Miss Tierney could do nothing to obscure her privileged childhood. As early as 1941, when she made "Belle Starr," The Times said: "As for Miss Tierney, her youth and fancy finishing school background betray her. As Belle, she never shot a man, much less loved one."
        But by 1946, when she made "Leave Her to Heaven," the actress in Miss Tierney that had been noticed years before by other critics emerged. David Thomson, in "A Biographical Dictionary of Film," said that in "Leave Her to Heaven," Miss Tierney's portrayal of the selfish and deadly character was "frighteningly credible."
        In 1941, Miss Tierney eloped with Oleg Cassini, the well-known couturier and her own wardrobe designer. They had a daughter, Daria, in 1943, who was born retarded, a condition attributed to the German measles Miss Tierney contracted during her pregnancy. They had another daughter, Christina, in 1948.
        Miss Tierney's marriage to Mr. Cassini ended in divorce. She is survived by their daughters, Daria, who is institutionalized, and Christina Belmont of Paris; four grandchildren, and a sister, Patricia Byrne of Boynton Beach, Fla.
      