
        Bishop Horace W. B. Donegan, the Episcopal Bishop of New York from 1950 until 1972 and an early church advocate for the rights of blacks, women and the poor, died yesterday at his home in Sanibel, Fla. He was 91 years old.
        His longtime chaplain, the Rev. Geoffrey R. M. Skrinar, said the Bishop died of cancer of the throat.
        Bishop Donegan, in his 22 years as spiritual leader of the New York diocese, transformed its social conciousness. A slender courtly man with cool blue eyes, he took a diocese with some of the most patrician families in the country and focused its attention on the needs of the growing ranks of the poor.
        A landmark in that journey was his announcement in 1967 that money that had accumulated to finish the construction of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, on Amsterdam Avenue at West 112th Street, would instead be given toward housing and development projects in nearby Harlem. 'Broken and Incomplete'
        The structure, seat of a diocese that embraces Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island and seven counties north of the city, is the world's largest Gothic-style cathedral. Its construction began in 1892.
        "This unfinished cathedral, towering as it does over this great and suffering metropolis, shall be the prophetic symbol that our society is still as rough-hewn, ragged, broken and incomplete as the building itself," he said.
        The halt in construction continued for a time under his successor, Bishop Paul Moore Jr., a lanky activist with a more forceful public style who intensified the diocese's involvement in several social causes. Work on the cathedral resumed in 1973.
        Bishop Donegan had worked to expand the role of women in his church. In 1956, he approved their election as wardens, vestry members and delegates to the national conventions. Ordained Women as Deacons
        In 1971, after the national church permitted it, he ordained two women, Carol Anderson and Julia Sibley, as deacons. The Episcopal Church has since decided to ordain women as priests and bishops.
        "He bridged the gap between World War II and the tumult of the 1960's," Mr. Skrinar said.
        Bishop Donegan lived quietly in the bishop's residence on the cathedral grounds or other church homes. He enjoyed reading biographies, listening to Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, swimming, painting landscapes and playing an occasional game of golf.
        After his retirement as bishop, he joined the staff of St. James Church on Madison Avenue at 71st Street, where he had once been rector. He took up the duties of a parish pastor, though in lighter fashion, preaching occasionally and assisting at communion. Honored by Queen Elizabeth
        The retirement included long summers in England, where he was born Horace William Baden Donegan in Derbyshire on May 17, 1900. In 1957, Queen Elizabeth II named him an honorary commander of the Order of the British Empire.
        His family left England when he was 10. He lived in Toledo, Ohio, and did his undergraduate work at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., when it was known as St. Stephen's College, and later at Oxford. Mr. Donegan received his divinity degree from the Episcopal Theological Seminary in Cambridge, Mass., in 1927 and became a priest in 1928.
        After serving as rector of Christ Church in Baltimore from 1929 to 1933, he became the rector of St. James, which has one of New York City's most prominent congregations.
        After 14 years at St. James and several appointments in national church posts, in 1947 he was elected Suffragan Bishop of New York, the second highest post in the diocese. On the retirement of Bishop Charles K. Gilbert in 1950, Bishop Donegan was enthroned as the 12th Bishop of the diocese. 'Evil Days' for the City
        Presiding at a church situated on the edge of an area of poor black and Hispanic people, he quickly began speaking out on the need for equality of opportunity. In 1953, he denounced conditions in schools and housing and high incidence of crime and urged different faiths to pool resources to alleviate "the evil days" the city had fallen on.
        The church may have to "sacrifice much that is time-honored" to minister effectively in a city whose racial and economic patterns were changing, he said in 1954.
        In 1957, he announced a $5 million program for building new churches in poorer areas of Manhattan and the Bronx, saying New York City was "the most strategic missionary opportunity that faces the church."
        In his genteel way, he crusaded for civil rights within his church as well. He chastised the Church Club, a prominent organization of Episcopal laymen, for failing to admit black members, declaring that in the Episcopal Church "there is no room for prejudice." 'Sins of Segregation'
        In a pastoral letter in 1956, he asked the diocese's churches to acknowledge "our own sins of segregation in our own community." He chose to read the letter in one of the city's most fashionable churches, St. Bartholomew's Church on Park Avenue at 51st Street.
        His forthrightness had its costs. At a special service marking his 15th year as Bishop, he observed that his civil rights stances had resulted in the withdrawal of substantial gifts pledged for completion of the cathedral.
        "I am faced with the fact," he said, "that one reason it is unfinished is because I, as Bishop of New York, have taken certain positions which I had to do as your Bishop."
        Outspoken on other causes as well, Bishop Donegan condemned the "un-American tactics" of the Congressional investigations led by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and deplored efforts to introduce religion into the public schools. In a pluralistic society, he said, the public schools should not be a vehicle for teaching "a religiously grounded ethic." Drew Line at Draft Refusers
        Shortly before Christmas 1955, the Bishop sponsored an apartment near the cathedral for a family of four refugees from Germany, and he later helped the husband find a job.
        During John F. Kennedy's campaign for President in 1960, the Bishop told churchgoers that Mr. Kennedy's Roman Catholic religion should not be an issue. In the same address, he assailed the South African policy of apartheid as "morally unsupportable, spiritually unpardonable and shamefully tragic in its consequences."
        There were, however, nuances to his liberalism. During the Vietnam War, in a 1965 address to the Patriotic Societies of New York, he said he could not understand young men's refusal to serve their country, even as conscientious objectors.
        "Were it in my power," he said, "I would fine every person who did not vote, and reward doubly everyone who enlisted in the service of our country, whether as an Episcopalian in the armed forces or as Quaker in the courageous group who will carry the wounded off the field of battle."
        The Bishop is survived by two nephews and a niece.
        A Liturgy of the Resurrection will be at 10 A.M. Saturday at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. The body will lie in the cathedral Thursday from 4 P.M. to 8 P.M. and Friday from 10 A.M. to 8 P.M.
      