
        Fred MacMurray, the personable, unassuming actor who starred in some of the best film comedies of the 1930's and 40's and was later the protagonist in popular Walt Disney fantasies and the television situation comedy "My Three Sons," died yesterday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 83 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of pneumonia after being admitted to the hospital on Monday afternoon, said Sarah O'Meara, a family friend.
        Reviewers repeatedly praised the charm, credibility and spontaneity of the 6-foot-3-inch-tall, pipe-smoking former saxophonist who had never studied acting. He had a good-guy image in nearly 80 films, but his most noted roles were cads -- a passion-crazed murderer in "Double Indemnity" (1944) and "Pushover" (1954), a deceitful Navy lieutenant in "The Caine Mutiny" (1954) and an exploitative philanderer in "The Apartment" (1960).
        Billy Wilder persuaded the affable actor to play the rotters in "Double Indemnity" and "The Apartment" to surprise and shock moviegoers. He did. According to a possibly apocryphal anecdote, Mr. MacMurray was walking in Disneyland one day when an elderly woman approached him and declared: "I always liked you until I saw you in 'The Apartment.' Now I hate you." She is said to have then pummeled him with her purse and stalked off.
        "Whether I play a heavy or a comedian," he said, "I always start out Smiley MacMurray, a decent Rotarian type. If I play a heavy, there comes a point in the film when the audience realizes I'm really a heel." A Listing of Main Films
        Mr. MacMurray's films include "Alice Adams" (1935), "Hands Across the Table" (1935), "The Trail of the Lonesome Pine" (1936), "The Texas Rangers" (1936), "Champagne Waltz" (1937), "True Confession" (1937), "Sing You Sinners" (1938), "Remember the Night" (1940) and "Take a Letter, Darling" (1942).
        Others are "Above Suspicion" (1943), "And the Angels Sing" (1944), "Where Do We Go From Here?" (a 1945 musical fantasy that gave the onetime vocalist a chance to sing), "The Egg and I" (1947), "Callaway Went Thataway" (1951) and "There's Always Tomorrow" (1956).
        The actor's Disney films include "The Shaggy Dog" (1959), "The Absent-Minded Professor" (1961), in which he invented "flubber," a magical rubber compound that enables people and objects to fly, and "Son of Flubber" (1963).
        Mr. MacMurray said he enjoyed film making, remarking: "It's nice to know you can do it again."
        "I take my movie parts as they come," he said. "I don't fly into an emotional storm about them. I just do them. I guess I am an offhand comedian in a natural way." 'I'm Lazy in Spurts'
        He said he was not "a dedicated actor" because "I'm lazy in spurts -- I'd as soon go fishing or play golf." As a result, he declined many offers to do stage plays and television series. However, he agreed to star in "My Three Sons" when a producer, Don Fedderson, promised he would have to work on it only three months a year. His scenes were shot first, and the other actors did the rest of the scenes later. He was given a high salary and a partnership.
        "My Three Sons" focused on a widowed father of three boys and their gruff but lovable maternal grandfather (William Frawley) and later their great-uncle (William Demarest), who oversaw household chores. The artfully produced series became one of the most popular on television, both in the United States and abroad, running in prime time from 1960 to 1972 and many more years in syndication. CBS bought it in 1965, reportedly for more than $7 million.
        Mr. MacMurray won many raises at Paramount Pictures, where he spent his first decade in Hollywood. In 1943, his annual salary was nearly $420,000, making him that year's highest-paid actor and fourth-highest-paid American. Frugal by nature, he put his finances in the hands of a manager, made many profitable investments and reputedly became one of Los Angeles's richest citizens. Son of a Concert Violinist
        Frederick Martin MacMurray was born on Aug. 30, 1908, in Kankakee, Ill., where his father, Frederick, a concert violinist, was on tour. He began to know financial insecurity at the age of 5, when his parents separated. He spent most of his youth in Beaver Dam, Wis., where he graduated from high school with 10 letters in athletics. In high school and for one year at Carroll College in Waukesha, Wis., where he had an American Legion scholarship, he led his own three-piece band, Mac's Melody Boys.
        Over the next eight years, Mr. MacMurray was a saxophonist and vocalist with various dance and vaudeville bands around the country and appeared on Broadway in two revues, "Three's a Crowd" and "The Third Little Show," and in a Jerome Kern musical, "Roberta." He won a contract with Paramount and achieved stardom in his first leading role, in the 1935 comedy "Gilded Lily.'
        He appeared in a wide variety of roles but gradually specialized in comedy, both sophisticated and farcical. He typically played genial, persistent leading men and became one of the most durable stars.
        Mr. MacMurray often appeared with such film goddesses as Claudette Colbert, Carole Lombard, Barbara Stanwyck and Madeleine Carroll, but he said he was no great screen lover. "Sometimes," he remarked, "scenes include people who just say 'Hi' to indicate they're in love. I play those scenes very well."
        He was a family-oriented man who lived unflamboyantly and relatively modestly, despite his wealth. His favorite recreations were golf, fishing, painting and cooking.
        He is survived by his wife, the former actress June Haver, whom he married in 1954; a son, Robert, of Hawaii, and three daughters, Laurie Sipma of Sacramento, Calif., Kate MacMurray of Los Angeles and Susan Pool of Little Rock, Ark. His first wife, Lillian LaMonte, an actress and model, died in 1953.
      