
        Daniel Mann, the theater and film director responsible for such successes as "Come Back, Little Sheba," "The Rose Tattoo" and "Butterfield 8," died on Thursday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 79 years old.
        He died of heart failure, said the actor Harold Ramis, his son-in-law.
        Mr. Mann was born in Brooklyn, the youngest of five children of a lawyer named Samuel Chugermann. He attended Erasmus Hall High School, but quit after an argument with a physics teacher and completed his education at the Children's Professional School. After graduation, he formed his own band, "Daniel and His Music Lions," which he served as leader, singer and saxophone player.
        "One day," he told an interviewer, "the thought of blowing a horn, say at the age of 40, scared the bejeebers out of me." He added: "I got a job in a film, 'Glorifying the American Girl.' I sat in a canoe with a beautiful girl all day and got a nice suntan. I figured acting was for me."
        In short order he was awarded a scholarship at the Neighborhood Playhouse and later began working with the Actors Studio, both of which practiced an American variant of the Stanislavski method of acting. Shaping Something Slender
        Mr. Mann's first break came in 1950 when he was invited to direct William Inge's play "Come Back, Little Sheba" starring Shirley Booth. The play became a Broadway hit, with much credit going to Mr. Mann for giving shape and substance to a tenuous and slender work.
        The next season, after Elia Kazan turned down the job, Mr. Mann staged Tennessee Williams's "The Rose Tattoo," starring Maureen Stapleton and Eli Wallach. That led the producer Irene Selznick to ask him to direct a revival of Williams's "Streetcar Named Desire," and soon Mr. Mann was summoned by Hollywood.
        Mr. Mann frequently returned to New York City to shoot the movies he made, among them "I'll Cry Tomorrow" with Susan Hayward and "The Last Angry Man" with Paul Muni. In 1960, he returned to film "Butterfield 8," based on John O'Hara's novel about a prostitute's infatuation with a married man. New Yorkers crowded the locations to watch Mr. Mann directing the film's stars, Elizabeth Taylor and her husband at the time, Eddie Fisher.
        Mr. Mann preferred stories that focused on character and the troubles of modern life. "I want to do plays that show the strengths and weaknesses of people, plays that people can identify themselves with," he once said. On another occasion, he complained that "the movies have became the product of the technicians," adding: "As a result, we miss the heartbeat." And Some Disasters
        Although Mr. Mann produced many hits, he had his share of critical disasters. Reviewing his 1956 screen version of John Patrick's Broadway hit, "The Teahouse of the August Moon," for example, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that under Mr. Mann's direction Glenn Ford and Marlon Brando seemed "as though they were out to make Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis look slightly repressed."
        One of his most successful efforts was the 1980 television movie "Playing for Time," which starred Vanessa Redgrave as an inmate of Auschwitz. In his review in The Times, John J. O'Connor called the production "totally uncompromising" and "heartbreakingly poignant."
        Mr. Mann is survived by two sons, Michael and Alex; a daughter, Erica Mann Ramis, and a grandson, all of Los Angeles.
      