
        David A. (Sonny) Werblin, the sports and entertainment impresario who upstaged his entire stunning career by luring Joe Namath to the struggling New York Jets in 1965, died Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Werblin, who had homes in New York, Miami and Rumson, N.J., died of a heart attack, his wife said yesterday.
        In a career that spanned more than 50 years and included almost as many professional successes, Mr. Werblin became an agent with the Music Corporation of America in the 1930's and later built its television division into such a dominating behemoth that it ran afoul of the nation's antitrust laws. The company represented clients like Elizabeth Taylor, Johnny Carson and Ronald Reagan and put together television hits like the Ed Sullivan and Jackie Gleason shows. Other Arenas
        In his later career in sports, Mr. Werblin at one time or another owned a share of the Monmouth Park race track, ran Madison Square Garden and rejuvenated moribund Knicks and Rangers teams. In his crowning achievement, he created the $340 million Meadowlands Sports Complex in New Jersey, which has become one of the nation's premier sports venues.
        But for a generation of sports fans in New York and for football fans across the nation, nothing Mr. Werblin ever accomplished could compare with what he did in January 1965, when as president and part-owner of an American Football League franchise renamed the New York Jets, he put the Broadway in Broadway Joe.
        The $427,000 Mr. Werblin spent to induce Namath, the acclaimed quarterback from the University of Alabama, to pass up the established National Football League in favor of the much-maligned American Football League transformed professional football.
        Or, as Mr. Werblin's longtime friend Howard Cosell put it yesterday, "He single-handedly changed the face of sports in America." Lift for the A.F.L.
        The three-year deal was not all in cash and included money for two of Mr. Namath's brothers, who were hired as scouts. But the sum, by far the biggest ever paid to a collegian to turn pro up to that time, captured the imagination of the nation's fans, helped make the flamboyant Mr. Namath into a national celebrity and represented the emergence of the A.F.L. as a force to be reckoned with.
        Although the contract seemed stunning in 1965, Mr. Namath was not the Jet with the highest annual salary. And after adjusting for inflation, the $427,000 would translate today to $1.86 million, well below what elite sports stars are making.
        "He knew the value of the fan and the star system," Mr. Namath said yesterday, recalling Mr. Werblin as an employer who became a close friend. "Over the years, he adopted me. He made sure I was getting along well. He told me to get to know New York, that it was the greatest city."
        Mr. Werblin, who together with several partners had paid $1 million for the languishing New York Titans franchise, drew on his theatrical experience to explain the significance of the Namath contract: "A million-dollar set is worthless if you put a $2,000 actor in the main role."
        Eighteen months later, after Namath proved in his first season both on and off the field that he was worthy of his pay, the N.F.L. agreed to a merger and the Super Bowl was created as an annual championship game, initially between the leagues and since 1970 between the top teams in the American Football Conference and National Football Conference.
        In one of the crueler twists of Mr. Werblin's career, by the time Namath led the Jets to their famous upset victory over the Baltimore Colts in the third Super Bowl, in Miami in 1969, the man who built the championship team was no longer an owner of the team.
        His partners, including Leon Hess, the chairman of the Amerada Hess Corporation, had become so miffed at all the attention paid to Mr. Werblin that they bought him out before the start of the 1968 season, paying him $1.2 million for a share that had cost him $250,000. Grew Up in Flatbush
        Mr. Werblin, whose father was a founder of a successful paper-bag company, was fond of talking about his early years in Flatbush, where his mother, to honor the oldest of her three sons, called him Sonny, thereby planting the seed for what Mr. Cosell acknowledged yesterday was one of the most memorable sobriquets the broadcaster ever lifted from Variety: "David A. 'Sonny' (as in Money) Werblin."
        David Abraham Werblin was born in Flatbush on March 17, 1910. As a Jew he relished the fact of having been born on St. Patrick's Day. The Jets' colors, green and white, were bestowed on the team "because they're my colors," he once explained.
        He played high school football at Erasmus Hall and James Madison and went to college at Rutgers University. But he injured his shoulder as a freshman and never played college football.
        In 1932, a year after his college graduation, and following a stint as a copy boy at The New York Times, he joined M.C.A., the huge talent agency, and was soon pioneering the practice of packaging talent, invariably his clients, into single productions.
        A movie producer, for example, might need a singer and Mr. Werblin would agree to provide one -- if a band, which he also represented, also was hired. He sometimes provided the bulk of the cast of movies. Married in 1938
        While he moved toward the top as a show-business agent, he met the singer for Phil Harris's band, Leah Ray Hubbard, who performed under the name Leah Ray. They were married on March 27, 1938.
        In 1951, Mr. Werblin became president of M.C.A.-TV, and it became so successful that it began producing its own shows and providing the talent for them as well as others, including "Wagon Train, "My Three Sons," "Bachelor Father" and "The Virginian." The enterprise was so successful in establishing a virtual monopoly that the Justice Department eventually forced it to break up into several divisions.
        As an agent, Mr. Werblin, whose own M.C.A. stock was once valued at $11 million, was something of a visionary. In addition to negotiating one of Johnny Carson's early lucrative contracts, for example, he also helped establish a line of Johnny Carson clothing that made millions for both men.
        Despite his own accomplishments and his famous, often flamboyant, clients and friends, Mr. Werblin remained straightforward and direct, even self-effacing, not to mention understated. When someone, inquiring about a client, asked, "What's Elizabeth Taylor really like?" Mr. Werblin got to the point. "Short," he replied. "Very short." Stranger to 'Retire'
        When he finally left M.C.A. in 1965, the headline in Variety read, "Mr. Show Business Retires."
        "Retired" was hardly the word. By then, Mr. Werblin was well on his way to becoming Mr. Sports.
        Two years earlier, he and his other partners in the Monmouth race track, including Mr. Hess, bought the Titans for a nominal $1 million, nominal because almost no money changed hands. The new owners merely assumed the team's debt.
        When Mr. Werblin sold his share in the remamed Jets in 1968, it was also not a retirement. 'Greatest Thrill'
        By 1970, he was back near the top of a sport once again when he had a highly touted colt, Silent Screen, in the Kentucky Derby. The 3-year-old had the lead in the stretch, but faltered and finished fifth. Still, Mr. Werblin described that brief moment as "my greatest thrill in sports."
        Within a year he became head of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, luring his old football rival, the Giants, across the river. Yet, no sooner was the Meadowlands complex built than he left in 1977 to take over Madison Square Garden, whose Knicks and Rangers had started a downward spiral after great success in the late 1960's and early 1970's.
        Although the formula was less successful this time, Mr. Werblin again spent money freely to acquire big names. Despite some success, neither club was able to sustain winning campaigns and after a degree of upheaval and several coaching changtes, Mr. Werblin relinquished active control of the Garden in 1984 but remained as chairman of the MSG Corporation.
        He remained active with one of his early loves, Rutgers, and not only was a major fund-raiser for the school but also worked diligently in upgrading its athletic teams. A new, $18.5 million recreation complex on the university's Busch campus in Piscataway was named after him last month.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Werblin is survived by two sons, Thomas and Robert. According to friends, a third son, Hubbard, died earlier this week, but Mr. Werblin was not told.
      