
        William H. Shames, a businessman who wrote a book about the pleasures and pains of trying to make profits from inventions, died on Monday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 60 years old and lived in Westport, Conn.
        He died of lung cancer, said his daughter, Erica Leslie Shames-Massoud of Lewisburg, Pa.
        Mr. Shames was co-founder and president of the Sibany Corporation, which came to be based in West Nyack, N.Y. He wrote that the company evolved from "an inventions company" into a company whose business was "primarily starting companies" that were "built around an invention." His daughter said he sold his interest in Sibany in 1971.
        The projects he was involved with in the 1960's ranged from a device that made it possible to answer a telephone more than half a mile away to one he wrote was "capable of electronically pairing identical pelts of precisely the same color and quality for mink and sable coats."
        One of an inventor's toughest jobs, he said in a 1966 interview, is persuading a manufacturer that "you're not just another nutty inventor." 'The Right Problem'
        He expanded on that view in his 1974 book "Venture Management: The Business of the Inventor, Entrepreneur, Venture Capitalist and Established Company" (Free Press-Macmillan). "First, find the right problem," he wrote. "It is easier to invent a satisfactory solution than to determine what needs to be invented. Second, don't know too much about why it can't be done. Much innovation comes from outside the conventional boundaries of an industry."
        He was born in Brooklyn and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Oklahoma.
        His 1953 marriage to Sybil Kannry ended in divorce in 1973.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a sister, Sylvia Meshberg of Laguna Hills, Calif.; two sons, Jeffrey, of Manhattan, and Jonathan, of Memphis, and one grandson.
        Correction:  November 9, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about William H. Shames, an inventor and author, misstated his birthplace. It was the Bronx.
      