
        Cedric Sandiford, a victim of the 1986 racial attack in Howard Beach, Queens -- one of the most explosive racial crimes in New York City in recent years -- died on Tuesday at the Veterans Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 41 years old and lived in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
        He had been gravely ill with AIDS. But a spokeswoman for the hospital, E. J. Stapler, said yesterday that she could not give the cause of death without permission from Mr. Sandiford's family. Mr. Sandiford's wife, Jean Griffith Sandiford, said she was seeking to determine if Mr. Sandiford's death resulted from the AIDS or some other cause.
        Mr. Sandiford entered the Veterans Hospital last Friday, two days after he returned from Nairobi, Kenya, where he had been undergoing treatment for AIDS since September. The treatment involved a drug called Kemron, which scientists in Kenya have termed an inexpensive cure for the illness. AIDS researchers in the United States and elsewhere have questioned that claim.
        Mr. Sandiford's brutal path to public prominence began in the early morning of Dec. 20, 1986, when he and two other black men were walking through Howard Beach, which is predominantly white, after their car had broken down nearby. A car in which several white teen-agers were riding came close to the black men as they were crossing a street and there was an exchange of racial slurs, witnesses said in three widely publicized trials in the case.
        Shortly afterward, the teen-agers who had been in the car were joined by other young whites, forming a band of about a dozen, and confronted the black men outside a pizza parlor. Shouting racial curses and wielding a baseball bat, the whites then chased the black men through the streets, witnesses said at the trials. One of the black men, Michael Griffith, the 23-year-old son of Mrs. Sandiford -- who was then Mr. Sandiford's fiancee -- was chased onto a highway, where he was struck and killed by a passing car. Mr. Sandiford was caught and severely beaten with the bat and other weapons. The third man, Timothy Grimes, then 19, fled unharmed.
        Despite his experience in Howard Beach, Mr. Sandiford, a lanky construction worker, refused to voice blanket condemnations of the area and its people. "I have not said one bad word about anybody in Howard Beach because I know there are good people over there," he said in a 1990 interview.
        Mr. Sandiford was a major prosecution witness in the trials, which led to the convictions of six defendants on charges ranging from manslaughter to riot. On the witness stand, his own history of struggling with drug addiction and alcoholism was put on public display as defense lawyers sought to undermine the credibility of his vivid accounts of the attack.
        Mr. Sandiford, who was born in Guyana, immigrated to the United States in 1968. He served in the United States Army from that year until 1970. He married Jean Griffith in 1989.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their daughter, Brenda; two sons from a previous marriage, Cedric Jr. and Jason, and three stepchildren, Anthony, Christopher and Odette Griffith.
        Correction:  November 22, 1991, Friday
        A picture in some copies yesterday with an obituary of Cedric Sandiford, a victim of the 1986 racial attack in Howard Beach, Queens, was published in error. The man shown speaking into a microphone was James E. Turner, a professor at Cornell University.
      