
        Former President Gustav Husak of Czechoslovakia, the old-line Slovak Communist who came to the fore after a Soviet bloc invasion stamped out the Prague Spring of 1968 and fell with the collapse of Communism, died yesterday. He was 78 years old.
        The nation's official press agency reported that he died in a hospital in Bratislava, the Slovak republic's capital and his hometown, of heart, circulatory and respiratory failure. He had been hospitalized 10 days earlier.
        Mr. Husak's party career reflected the vagaries buffeting the eastern bloc formed by the Soviet Union after World War II. He spent years in jail in the Stalinist era, accused of "bourgeois nationalism," because he advocated a measure of autonomy for Slovakia, a constituent republic administered from Prague.
        He was ousted from the Czechoslovak Parliament in 1951, thrown out of the party -- an experience that was to be repeated early in 1990 -- and arrested on charges of treason and sabotage. Others around him were executed, but he was spared that, receiving a life prison term in 1954. The Rise to the Top
        The sentence was declared illegal in 1963, and the Communist Party returned his membership card. But it took five more years before he started to rise again through the party hierarchy and to the top.
        Once there, Mr. Husak presided over one of the sternest, least tolerant governments in Eastern Europe for the next 20 years. Mr. Husak, as the party's General Secretary, replaced Alexander Dubcek, the leader of the brief spell of reforms that were to give Czechoslovakia "socialism with a human face." Instead, it brought to the streets of Prague the tanks and guns of the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact allies.
        In 1975, Mr. Husak added the Czechoslovak presidency to his portfolio, also becoming militia Commander in Chief. Ten years later, the ascendance of Mikhail S. Gorbachev to the Soviet leadership and his subsequent campaigns for openness and social and economic restructuring began to reverberate through the Soviet satellites of Eastern Europe.
        Under some reform pressure, Mr. Husak yielded the party leadership to Milos Jakes in December 1987. Two years later his membership was suspended and he was expelled once again in January 1990.
        On Dec. 10, 1989, Czechoslovakia swore in a Cabinet with the Communists in the minority. After 41 years of party rule, a "Government of national understanding" took office, with 11 non-Communists and 10 Communists heading the ministries.
        With a huge crowd celebrating outside, Mr. Husak resigned and opened the way for Vaclav Havel, the dissident and playwright who headed the Civic Forum movement, to succeed him.
        Mr. Dubcek emerged from years in limbo, spent partly as a forester and a locksmith fitter, and became Speaker of the Czechoslovak Parliament.
        Gustav Husak was born on Jan. 10, 1913, in Bratislava. He joined the Slovak Communist Party in 1933 as a student and immersed himself in Marxist doctrine. Working for his doctorate in law in Bratislava he fell in with other intellectuals with Communist leanings. They were led by Vladimir Clementis.
        He practiced in Clementis's law firm in Bratislava and was jailed in 1940 by the German-backed Slovak puppet Government. Freed in 1943, he played a significant role in a revolt against the puppet regime a year later. He also began a career as a government official and party functionary. In 1948, after the Communists took sole control of the country, he was elected to the party's Central Committee.
        Soon afterward, a purge began of party stalwarts suspected of "nationalism" and of plotting to follow Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia out of the Soviet sphere of influence. The party chief, Rudolph Slansky, and Foreign Minister Clementis were the main targets, and Mr. Husak's close association with Clementis put him at risk as well.
        He was arrested in 1951 and convicted and sentenced in 1954. Six years later, in 1960, he was released, pending review of his case, and found a job with the Department of Buildings in Bratislava with enough spare time to write a history of the 1944 uprising.
        In his petition for rehabilitation, Mr. Husak acknowledged certain "negative" traits, like "too much self-confidence, a quick temper, frequent impatience, a tendency to demand too much from people." He also said that working for the party had meant neglect of his family and seeing his children "only occasionally."
        He became an early supporter of Mr. Dubcek, perhaps because of the previous leadership's condemnation of Slovak nationalism. He was also a principal architect of the federated system under which the Slovak minority of about 5 million and the nearly 10 million Czechs were given limited autonomy in their own regions, at least in theory.
        Mr. Husak was said to be a sophisticated man. Above all, he was considered a deft politician with a logical mind and the ability to tailor his oratory to an audience, speaking in polished Czech to a Prague audience and turning folksy and freewheeling back home in Slovakia.
        Since his ouster, Mr. Husak had been living quietly in Bratislava, reportedly suffering from stomach cancer. Roman Catholic Church officials said he had been given last rites 10 days ago.
        Little was known about Mr. Husak's life away from the office other than that he was a widower and a father. His wife, Viera, died in October 1977 in a helicopter crash on the way from a Slovak spa, Bardejov, to the Husak villa in Bratislava. She and Mr. Husak were married in 1975, some years after the death of his first wife.
      