
        Hanson W. Baldwin, retired military-affairs editor of The New York Times and the author of more than a dozen books on military and naval history and policy, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Baldwin died of heart failure, his family said.
        A graduate of the United States Naval Academy, Mr. Baldwin joined The Times in 1929 and won a Pulitzer Prize in 1943 for his World War II reporting from the Pacific.
        He was one of the nation's leading authorities on military and naval affairs during the postwar transition from conventional warfare to the nuclear age. A tall, slender, courtly man, Mr. Baldwin had a quiet manner that belied his forceful opinions.
        In addition to the European and Pacific battles of World War II, Mr. Baldwin covered the strategy, tactics and weapons of war in Korea, Vietnam, the Middle East and other theaters before retiring from The Times in 1968.
        His articles, many marked "military analysis," were often more than reportorial, blending his own opinions and those of the nation's military chiefs into the news of specific military situations, so that what emerged was a broader view of strategic considerations and their national and international political implications. Advocate of Nuclear Superiority
        Mr. Baldwin was often aligned with Pentagon military chiefs on major strategic issues and budgetary matters. He frequently opposed the "gradualism" of political leaders whose restraints, he felt, stood in the way of battlefield victories or military superiority for the United States.
        He contended that the United States was engaged in a "struggle for the world" with an aggressively expansionist Communism, and he was an outspoken advocate of nuclear superiority over the Soviet Union.
        At various times, he also advocated the intensification of the Vietnam War to achieve a military victory, and friendship with Spain under Franco and with white-dominated Governments in South Africa and in Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, because of what he regarded as their strategic positions.
        Generals, admirals, Presidents and members of Congress read his articles, sometimes with respect and sometimes with exasperation. His views occasionally became the focus of news, as they did in 1966 when Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara called a news conference to dispute his contention that the Vietnam War had overextended the armed forces.  Opinions Angered Moscow
        The Times itself occasionally disagreed with his opinions. In 1965, for example, he argued in an article in The New York Times Magazine for a stepped-up American military commitment in Vietnam, including one million soldiers and saturation bombing of North Vietnam, to stop the "Communist strategy of creeping aggression" before it swallowed up all of Asia.
        In an editorial, The Times said such a policy would be "a surer road to global holocaust than to a 'victory' arms can never win for either side."
        Mr. Baldwin's opinions sometimes drew the wrath of the Soviet Union. Pravda once referred to him as a "cannibal in an American tunic," and Krokodil, a Soviet satirical magazine, published a cartoon depicting him as a fat little man in an admiral's hat seated in a puddle of ink and surveying the world through the wrong end of a telescope.
        After his retirement, Mr. Baldwin continued to write articles on military affairs for the news columns of The Times and its Op-Ed page. He also continued to write books and many magazine articles on strategic issues and intelligence matters, and served as president of the Naval Academy Alumni Association. Father an Editor
        Hanson Weightman Baldwin was born in Baltimore on March 22, 1903, the son of Oliver Perry Baldwin Jr., who for many years was managing editor of The Baltimore Sun, and Caroline Sutton Baldwin. He attended Boys Latin School in Baltimore and graduated from the Naval Academy in 1924.
        After three years of Navy service, much of it at sea aboard a destroyer and a battleship, Mr. Baldwin resigned his commission and began his newspaper career in 1927 as a reporter with The Baltimore Sun. Shifting to The New York Times two years later, he covered general assignments for eight years and became the paper's military analyst in 1937.
        That year, he spent four months in Europe, traveling in Germany, France, Britain and Poland to report on military preparedness for what was viewed as the coming war. When he returned, he reported extensively on the ill-prepared state of the American military establishment.
        After the outbreak of war, his dispatches from Guadalcanal and the Western Pacific won a Pulitzer Prize in 1943. Later, he covered the Allied invasion of North Africa and the D-day landings on the beaches of Normandy. A Prolific Writer
        In the postwar years, Mr. Baldwin reported on the sweeping changes in military affairs, including the formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other international security groups, the new roles of sea and air power, the development of atomic weapons, the age of jets and missiles, the strategic arms race and questions ranging from mess hall complaints to global military strategies.
        In 1959 he broke the news of high-altitude atomic bomb tests by the United States, known as Project Argus, after holding it for seven months because of what Washington contended were national security considerations.
        Besides his articles for The Times, Mr. Baldwin kept a heavy lecture schedule and wrote regularly for magazines, scholarly quarterlies and a variety of professional military publications. His family said his papers would be given to the Yale Library.
        His early books included "The Caissons Roll," a military survey of Europe (Knopf, 1938); "United We Stand" (McGraw-Hill, 1941); "Strategy for Victory" (Norton, 1942); "The Navy at War" (William Morrow, 1943); "The Price of Power" (The Council on Foreign Relations and Harper, 1947); "Great Mistakes of the War" (Harper, 1949); "Sea Fights and Shipwrecks" (Hanover House, Doubleday, 1955), and "The Great Arms Race" (Praeger, 1958).
        His later books included "World War I: An Outline History" (Harper & Row, 1962); "The New Navy" (Dutton, 1964); "Battles Lost and Won: Great Campaigns of World War II" (Harper & Row, 1966); "Strategy for Tomorrow" (Harper & Row, 1970); "The Crucial Years, 1939-1941" (Harper & Row, 1976), and "Tiger Jack" (Old Army Press, 1979).
        "Strategy for Tomorrow" advocated an "oceanic" strategy in which United States ground forces in Europe and Asia would be reduced and naval forces strengthened to deploy nuclear weapons and to make intervention in world trouble spots easier.
        Besides the Pulitzer Prize, Mr. Baldwin received many awards and prizes, including the Distinguished Service Medal from Syracuse University in 1944. He received honorary degrees from Drake University and the Clarkson Institute of Technology.
        Mr. Baldwin is survived by his wife, the former Helen Bruce, whom he married in 1931; two daughters, Barbara Potter of Woodbury, Conn., and Elizabeth Crabtree of Ridgewood, N.J.; seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be private.
      