
        Harlon B. Carter, who became the nation's foremost opponent of gun controls in leading the National Rifle Association to its greatest expansion in membership and political influence, died Tuesday at his home in rural Green Valley, Ariz.
        He was 78 years old and died of lung cancer, his family said.
        In his tenure from 1977 to 1985 as executive vice president, the rifle association's chief operating position, the group's membership more than tripled, to three million, and its annual budget multiplied severalfold, to $66 million. The organization's influence with elected officials also soared, to the dismay of gun control advocates.
        The association promotes a right to own and use firearms for protection, sport and hunting. Mr. Carter, adamant against restrictions, once testified before Congress that the misuse of guns was "a price we pay for freedom." N.R.A.'s 'Fiercest Warrior'
        Nelson T. Shields, a founder of an opposing organization, Handgun Control Inc., once called Mr. Carter "Mr. N.R.A." And yesterday Wayne R. LaPierre, the rifle association's current chief officer, said Mr. Carter "was our champion and fiercest warrior."
        Mr. Carter held 44 national shooting records with pistol, military rifle and small-bore rifle. He was one of 53 civilians who have received a special Army award for marksmanship.
        He served on the rifle association's board from 1951 to 1969 and was its president, a part-time position, from 1965 to 1967. He was the first director of its lobbying arm, the Institute for Legislative Action, from 1975 to 1976. In a bitter battle for control in 1977, he won an election ousting the association's executive vice president, Maxwell E. Rich. Later he was re-elected by a unanimous vote and continued in the post until he retired in 1985.
        Mr. Carter was born in Granbury, Tex., and joined the rifle association as a junior member at the age of 16. In a quarrel the next year, he fatally shot a 15-year-old boy. Mr. Carter was convicted of murder, but the verdict was overturned by a higher court, which ruled that the trial judge's jury instructions had been incomplete.
        The case was buried in the past until 1981, when a reporter asked Mr. Carter about it. At first he denied knowledge, then refused to comment. Later he acknowledged the episode and expressed regret about the boy's death.  Joined the Border Patrol
        Young Mr. Carter went on to graduate from the University of Texas and Emory Law School. Following in the footsteps of his father, he joined the United States Border Patrol. He rose rapidly, and was chief of the entire patrol from 1950 to 1957. He was commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Southwestern region from 1961 to 1970, when he retired after 34 years with the Government.
        He also served on President Harry S. Truman's Commission on Migratory Labor and on the board of the United States Olympic Committee.
        He is survived by his wife, Maryann; a daughter, Joy Johnstone of Los Cruces, N.M.; two sons, J. William Carter of Modesto, Calif., and John Carter of Wildomar, Calif.; eight grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; two brothers, Gene Carter of Corpus Christi, Tex., and Lee Carter of Refugio, Tex., and a sister, Miriam Bruce of Laredo, Tex.
      