
        Felix E. Larkin, the former president and chairman of W. R. Grace & Company and a lawyer at the Defense Department who oversaw the development of a uniform Code of Military Justice, died Sunday night at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        Mr. Larkin died of pulmonary failure, said a spokesman for W. R. Grace, the chemical, natural resources and retailing conglomerate based in New York City.
        Born in New York City in 1909, Mr. Larkin received a bachelor's degree from Fordham University, a master's from New York University and a law degree from St. John's University before working as a law secretary for Judge James G. Wallace of the Court of General Sessions of New York County from 1939 to 1947.
        After World War II, Mr. Larkin served as vice chairman of the Naval Board of Review for Courts Martial and as assistant counsel to the Senate War Investigating Committee.
        In 1947, he joined the legal staff of the Defense Department, and in 1949, Defense Secretary Louis A. Johnson appointed him general counsel.
        While at the department, Mr. Larkin worked on the drafting of a Code of Military Justice for all the armed services intended to protect the accused and to increase public confidence in the fairness of court-martials. The uniform code superseded the Articles of War for the Army and Air Force and the Articles of Government of the Navy.
        He retired from the Defense Department in 1951 to become an executive with W. R. Grace, a company then still primarily devoted to shipping. He served in a number of executive positions as the company expanded and diversified into insurance, aviation, importing and exporting, merchant banking, trucking, chemicals and retailing.
        In 1971, Mr. Larkin became president of the company. He was elected chairman in 1974 and was appointed chairman of the executive committee in 1981, a position he held until he retired in 1986.
        Mr. Larkin was a trustee of Fordham University from 1969 to 1978. He was chairman of the board of trustees from 1970 to 1977, when he was named a trustee emeritus.
        Mr. Larkin's wife, Evelyn Wallace Larkin, died last year. He is survived by two sons, John A., of Wyomissing, Pa., and James W., of Bronxville, N.Y.; a daughter, Nancy Larkin Carr of Larchmont, N.Y.; a brother, Leo A. Larkin of Forest Hills, Queens; four sisters, Rita Cuskley of Mamaroneck, Eileen Reid of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., Sister Mary Kateri Larkin of San Antonio and Patricia Smith of Denver, and 10 grandchildren.
      