
        Frederick C. Barghoorn, a longtime Yale professor who became the center of an international incident when Soviet officials jailed him in Moscow on espionage charges and released him only under pressure from President John F. Kennedy, died Wednesday night.
        He was 80 years old. He died at Willows Convalescent Home in Woodbridge, Conn. The cause of death was respiratory failure, his family said.
        A well-known scholar on the Soviet Union, Mr. Barghoorn was seized in 1963 as he was completing a trip in that country made to conduct interviews for a book.
        As he later recalled, he arrived in front of the Metropole Hotel when a stranger walked up and handed him a roll of papers. Before he could examine them, Soviet officers instantly appeared, clapped on handcuffs and whisked him off to Lubyanka prison. He was held incommunicado for days. When word of his arrest got out, American diplomats protested and demonstrations were held at Yale and elsewhere.
        President Kennedy, in what would be his last White House news conference, denounced the action as "unjustified." He declared that Mr. Barghoorn "was not on any intelligence mission of any kind" and called the detention "a very serious matter." The President said American relations with the Soviet Union were "greatly damaged" and warned that impending wheat sales were jeopardized.
        After 16 days of his confinement, the Soviets finally released Mr. Barghoorn and expelled him. They said they were deferring to "to the personal concern expressed by President Kennedy." But as they deported the professor, they still insisted he was a spy. Gratitude to Kennedy
        He was greeted by a rally of 2,200 people at the Yale campus. He repeatedly expressed gratitude for the President's intervention to rescue him and was emotionally crushed when Mr. Kennedy was assassinated a few days later.
        Mr. Barghoorn denied being a spy and called the episode "inexplicable and mysterious." He said on all his trips to the U.S.S.R. he had taken great care to avoid trouble by refusing to visit anyone's home, spend more than a few minutes with a woman or carry a camera. He said his imprisonment was wearying but that he was not mistreated. Asked if was interrogated, he said wryly, "Most of the time."
        Because of the incident, the United States called off negotiations with the Soviets on cultural exchanges, but the talks were consummated later.
        Born in Queens Village in New York City, Mr. Barghoorn grew up there and in Dayton, Ohio. He got his undergraduate degree from Amherst College and his doctorate in history from Harvard. He worked for the State Department in Washington in the 1930's, and for much of the 1940's worked in the press section of its embassy in Moscow. From 1949 to 1951, he headed a Federal project interviewing 200 Soviet defectors to analyze their Government and society.
        He also taught at the University of Chicago and Columbia University, but spent most of his career in Yale's political science department. He wrote several books and numerous articles for The New York Times and professional journals.
        The survivors include his wife, the former Nina Piroumoff, of New Haven, and a nephew, Steven, of Carlisle, Mass.
      