
        Charles Wagley, an anthropologist who pioneered in research of Latin American cultures, died yesterday at his home in Gainesville, Fla., at the age of 78.
        Dr. Wagley died of lung cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        A long-time teacher and scholar at Columbia University and the University of Florida, Dr. Wagley was widely respected as a social anthropologist and author of acclaimed books, especially on the people of the Amazon basin of Brazil. He was a former president of the American Anthropological Association and the American Ethnological Society.
        Dr. Stuart B. Schwartz, director of the Center for Early Modern History at the University of Minnesota, said Dr. Wagley's influence extended "far beyond his own field of anthropology." He said Dr. Wagley "trained a whole generation of specialists on Brazil, and the study of Brazil in the United States owes a tremendous debt to him." Associated With Columbia
        Dr. Wagley was long associated with Columbia as a student and professor. He earned his bachelor's and Ph.D. degrees there in the 1930's as a student of Dr. Franz Boas, one of the early leaders of anthropology. He later became the first Franz Boas Professor of Anthropology and director of the Latin American Institute at Columbia.
        In 1971, he joined the faculty of the University of Florida at Gainesville. At the time of his death, he was professor emeritus of anthropology and Latin American studies there.
        Dr. Wagley was born in Clarksville, Tex., and went to high school in Kansas City, Mo. As a graduate student at Columbia, he worked for long periods in remote villages in Guatemala among descendants of the Mayans. Newspaper accounts of his life among mountain villagers in 1937 describe how this young anthropologist told the villagers of the existence of the United States.
        But Dr. Wagley later focused on the jungle-dwelling people and peasant farmers on the banks of the Amazon. He presented his results in scholarly journals and two popular books, "Welcome of Tears" and "Amazon Town," which was a study of human adaptation to a tropical environment.
        Dr. Wagley was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society and the Center for Inter-American Relations. He held honorary degrees from the University of Notre Dame and the University of Bahia in Brazil.
        He is survived by his wife, Cecilia Roxo Wagley of Gainesville; a daughter, Isabel Anne Kottak of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a brother, William Wagley of Santa Rosa, Calif., and two grandchildren.
        But Dr. Wagley later focused on the jungle-dwelling people and peasant farmers on the banks of the Amazon. He presented his results in scholarly journals and two popular books, "Welcome of Tears" and "Amazon Town," which was a study of human adaptation to a tropical environment.
      