
        Bob Johnson, the hockey coach who achieved success at every level of the game, including capturing the Stanley Cup last year with the Pittsburgh Penguins, died of brain cancer yesterday. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Johnson died at his home in Colorado Springs, where he had been confined since an operation last August to remove a brain tumor. Doctors had decided to treat a second tumor with radiation treatments. Harry Sanders, a spokesman for the Penguins, said Mr. Johnson had been in a coma for about a week.
        Mr. Johnson was stricken only months after the Penguins won hockey's championship trophy, the Stanley Cup, making him the first American to coach a championship team since World War II.  Enjoyed Fans' Celebration
        Known in sports circles as Badger Bob, Mr. Johnson was a man of such tremendous enthusiasm, energy and positive attitude that it spilled over onto his players and all around him.
        More than 40,000 people greeted the Penguins at the airport at 2 A.M. the night they won the cup and 80,000 celebrated two days later at a downtown rally. No one enjoyed the celebration more than Mr. Johnson.
        "Winning the cup was the one unfinished thing in Bob's life," said Mr. Johnson's wife, Martha.
        The extended playoffs left Mr. Johnson with virtually no off season, but he still worked at summer camps and began preparing for the Canada Cup competition. He became ill during a six-game, 12-day road trip in August, yet continued sketching out strategy even as he fought for his life.
        "That's the way it was with Bob," his wife said last May. That's the way he is with hockey. His world always seems like a better place the morning after a hockey game." 'Very High Energy Level'
        "He had a very, very high energy level," said Coach Bob Murdoch of the Winnipeg Jets, who was once an assistant to Mr. Johnson with the Calgary Flames.
        Mr. Johnson had a low tolerance for gloom. If a player didn't get caught up in his upbeat attitude, his relationship with Mr. Johnson was usually short and tense. The coach always encouraged players, prodding them to reach for a higher level.
        "There are a lot of ways to coach," Mr. Johnson said last year of his coaching philosophy. "You can coach from fear, when it's 'you do it this way or you're gone tomorrow,' or you can develop pride in performamce."
        Mr. Johnson learned in his years of coaching not to ask a player to produce what the coach himself could not. With that attitude in mind, one of Mr. Johnson's first moves when he took the job with the Penguins was to put a sign on his office door that read:
        "Never try to teach a pig to sing. It wastes your time and it annoys the pig." Attitudes Lifted Team
        Mr. Johnson's attitudes about the game were exactly what Pittsbugh needed for its first Stanley Cup triumph last spring. Although the Penguins were strong on talent, they were often short on inspiration, failing to reach the playoffs in seven of the previous eight years.
        Mr. Johnson was only the second American coach to lead a team to the Stanley Cup title and the first since the end of World War II, which is regarded as the beginning of the modern era in the sport. Bill Stewart of Springfield, Mass., did it with Chicago in 1938.
        Mr. Johnson distinguished himself by coaching teams to a National Hockey League championship and a national collegiate title. In 1966, when he started coaching the University of Wisconsin, where he earned the nickname Badger Bob after the nickname of the university's teams, it wasn't easy for players and coaches from the United States to break into the Canadian-dominated big league.
        "My own son came along and played 10 years in the league," Mr. Johnson said, referring to his son, Mark, who played for several teams in the N.H.L., including the New Jersey Devils, and was a member of the gold-medal-winning team in the 1980 Olympics. "If he grew up when I grew up, he never would have had a chance. There wasn't a chance for the Americans then." Son of Swedish Immigrant
        Mr. Johnson was raised in Minneapolis, the son of a Swedish immigrant who changed his surname from Olars to Johnson when he passed through Ellis Island at age 19.
        Mr. Johnson coached the United States Olympic team in 1976 and was to coach the team again in 1992. He led the University of Wisconsin to National Collegiate Athletic Association championships in 1973, 1977 and 1981. Another son, Peter, played for his father at Wisconsin and is now an assistant at the university.
        Mr. Johnson coached the Calgary Flames from 1982 to 1987 and joined the Penguins last season after three years -- 1987 to 1990 -- as executive director of USA Hockey, which supervises the sport at the amateur level up to the Olympic team.
        Besides his wife and two sons, Mr. Johnson is survived by three daughters and nine grandchildren.
      