
        Berenice Abbott, a pioneer of modern American photography, died yesterday at her home in Monson, Me. She was 93 years old.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said Hank O'Neal, her biographer.
        Miss Abbott is best known for her powerful black-and-white photographs of New York City in the 1930's. In these pictures, she used the tools of modernist photographic style -- including dynamically framed compositions, flattened pictorial space, high angles, and great detail -- to capture the enormous energy and variety of the city.
        Perhaps her most famous picture, a view of New York at night taken from the top of the Empire State Building, presents the city as a glittering tapestry of light, with massive buildings thrusting up from the criss-crossed streets. In her New York photographs, many of which were collected in the book "Changing New York" (1939), Miss Abbott also provided an invaluable historical record of the physical appearance of the city at a time when it was undergoing rapid transformation.
        Miss Abbott first achieved fame as a photographer in Paris in the 1920's with her penetrating portraits of such artists and writers as James Joyce, Janet Flanner and Jean Cocteau. She is also known for a series of photographs illustrating laws and processes of physics. Documentary Advocate
        As a participant in the photographic controversies of her day, Miss Abbott was an eloquent and contentious advocate of the documentary approach. In books and articles she argued that photography was uniquely a descriptive medium, and should not be used to simulate effects that could better be achieved in other arts. "Photography can never grow up if it imitates some other medium," she wrote in 1951. "It has to walk alone; it has to be itself."
        Miss Abbott was also known as the person primarily responsible for the present-day fame of the French photographer Eugene Atget, whom she met in Paris two years before his death in 1927. For almost four decades Atget had earned a modest living photographing the artistic monuments of Paris and its environs, selling prints to artists, publishers and archivists. In the course of this work he had built up a large file of photographs documenting Parisian life and culture.
        Upon his death Miss Abbott bought the almost 1,500 glass-plate negatives and some 8,000 prints remaining in his studio. When she returned to New York in 1929, she brought the materials with her, and in following years arranged exhibitions, print sales and the publication of several books of Atget's work.  The collection remained in Miss Abbott's possession until 1968, when it was acquired by the Museum of Modern Art; it later became the basis for a series of four exhibitions and books that was completed in 1984. Assistant to Man Ray
        Atget's photographs, which combine straightforward description with great formal beauty, have exerted a great influence on the development of American photography. Most notably they served as a model for the work of Walker Evans, who first saw them in New York shortly after Miss Abbott's return from Paris. In the years since, Atget has provided an important example of purpose and style to a host of other photographers.
        Born in Springfield, Ohio, on July 17, 1898, Berenice Abbott studied briefly at Ohio State University before going first to New York and then, in 1921, to Europe to study sculpture and drawing. She went into photography by accident, going to work in Paris in 1923 as a darkroom assistant for the American Surrealist Man Ray. In 1925 she took up portrait photography as a means of earning a living, but quickly discovered her love and aptitude for the work. In 1926 she opened her own studio, and soon built up a successful career as a portrait photographer.
        On a short visit to the United States in 1929 she was excited by the speed and energy of New York, and decided to undertake a project to record the changing face of the city. She moved back to the United States and began to photograph, working first with a small, hand-held camera. By 1932, though, she had switched to a large-format camera that produced 8-by-10-inch negatives capable of recording great detail. 'Changing New York'
        For several years she financed the project herself. In 1935, though, she was able to obtain support from the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration and began to produce the pictures that were published four years later as "Changing New York." She focused on architectural details and important historical buildings, as well as bridges and skyscrapers, often aiming her camera up or down to achieve dizzying perspectives. Occasionally she included people in the pictures, but her primary emphasis was on the physical structure of the city. Her pictures of row houses and tenements, elevated trains and automats, warehouses and store fronts, provide a remarkably thorough record of the city in all its diversity.
        After completing her documentation of New York, Miss Abbott turned to scientific photography and invention, and in 1958 she joined the physical science study committee of Education Services Inc., in Cambridge, Mass., to take photographs for a new high-school physics text. Many of her pictures from this time have a remarkable geometric beauty while at the same time providing clear illustrations of such physical phenomena as the interference patterns produced by two sets of waves or the refraction of a beam of light through a prism.
        Her scientific photographs won her new acclaim both before and after the textbook "Health" was published in 1960. In the opinion of her principal biographer, Mr. O'Neal, her scientific work "may well be viewed in future years as her outstanding contribution to photography." A Major Retrospective
        During her years in New York, Miss Abbott was an active freelance photographer. She established the photography program at the New School for Social Research, and published several other books. In 1966 she moved to Maine, where she lived until her death, although she retained a connection to the city through a continuing association with the New York Public Library, which sponsored a major retrospective exhibition of her work in 1989.
        The New York exhibition, organized by Julia van Haaften, later traveled to Dallas, Atlanta, Toledo, Ohio, and Tokyo. Over the years Miss Abbott's work was the subject of many other exhibitions at major museums, including the Smithsonian Institution's Museum of History and Technology in Washington (1969) and the Museum of Modern Art in New York (1970). In 1982 her life and work were summed up in a book, "Berenice Abbott: American Photographer," by Mr. O'Neal.
        There are no survivors. A spokesman for the New York Public Library said a memorial service would be held in the library's Celeste Bartos Forum at a date to be announced.
        Correction:  December 20, 1991, Friday
        An obituary on Dec. 11 about the photographer Berenice Abbott misstated the title of the 1960 textbook in which photographs by Miss Abbott appeared. It was "Physics."
      