
        Sybil Hart Kooper, a retired justice of the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court in New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Brooklyn Heights. She was 66 years old.
        She died of breast cancer, a former aide said.
        It was because of the cancer that she retired on Oct. 31 from the Second Judicial Department of the Appellate Division. The Appellate Division is the state's intermediate appeals court and the Second Judicial Department is in Brooklyn.
        Justice Kooper was appointed to the Family Court by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1973, elected to the State Supreme Court two years later and was named by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to the Appellate Division in 1985.
        A champion of women's rights, she observed in 1982, during a convention of the National Association of Women Judges, that "women judges are sometimes very lonely."
        She added, in an interview: "Through this organization we've gained a sense of identification and belonging. We've enhanced our sense of personal worth, price, strength."
        During her judicial career, she presided at some notable murder trials. Among them was the racially motivated slaying of a black transit worker, William Turks, by a group of white youths in 1983. When Justice Kooper sentenced a defendant, Gino Bova, to a 5-15 year sentence, she said with stinging terseness that there had been "a lynch mob" on the Brooklyn street that night. "The only thing missing was a rope and a tree," she said.
        Justice Kooper, who born in Brooklyn, attended Wellesley College and graduated from the New York Law School. As an attorney, she specialized in family law before being named to the Family Court. Her father, Walter R. Hart, was also a justice of the State Supreme Court and rose to become Presiding Justice of the Appellate Term, Second Department.
        Not long before she went on the bench, Justice Kooper sued to gain admittance to the 130-member citywide Metropolitan Trial Lawyers Association, contending that she had been excluded because of her sex. The suit was eventually settled and she became the association's first female member.
        One appellate opinion she wrote concerned the boycott of the Red Apple grocery operated by Koreans in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Her finding in that case was that police officers were obliged to carry out an order by a lower court that said demonstrators must remain at least 50 feet away from the store's entrance.
        She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
        Correction:  December 14, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary headline yesterday about a retired justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court rendered her name and age incorrectly in some editions. She was Sybil Hart Kooper, and she was 66 years old.
      