
        J. Max Bond Sr., a retired American educator who was president of the University of Liberia in the early 1950's, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 89 years old.
        The cause of his death was not immediately clear, but he had been suffering from prostate cancer, said a granddaughter, Ruth M. Bond.
        Dr. Bond was born in Nashville, Tenn., the son of a Congregational minister. He was graduated from what later became Roosevelt College in Chicago, earned a master's degree from the University of Pittsburgh and a Ph.D. in sociology and economics in 1934 from the University of Southern California. While studying for his doctorate he worked as a waiter, a playground director and a physical training instructor.
        He was director of an interracial commission in Kentucky from 1928 to 1931, a personnel and training official of the Tennessee Valley Authority from 1934 to 1938, dean at Dillard University in New Orleans from 1938 to 1940 and an administrator at Tuskegee Institute in Alabama from 1940 to 1944. Worked With Haitian Schools
        From 1944 to 1947 he represented the Inter-American Educational Foundation in Haiti and also directed a commission working with the Haitian school system to improve its instruction in health and other fields.
        He was then director of the School of Education at Atlanta University for three years, and was in Monrovia, the Liberian capital, from 1950 to 1954.
        Dr. Bond's son George Clement Bond, who is director of the Institute of African Studies at Columbia University and a professor of anthropology at its Teachers College, said that as president of the University of Liberia, his father strove to maintain equality between teachers and students who were of indigenous African origin on the one hand and those who were Liberians descended from slaves in the United States.
        The son said that after leaving the post in Monrovia, Dr. Bond was an offficial of the United States Agency for International Development from 1955 until his retirement in 1966. He served as an adviser in education and oversaw educational programs and had tours of duty in Afghanistan, Tunisia, Sierra Leone and Malawi.
        In retirement in Washington he was active in local community affairs, particularly in the Capitol Hill neighborhood, where he lived.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Clement; three children, Jane Emma and J. Max Jr., both of Manhattan, and George Clement of Teaneck, N.J., and six grandchildren.
        Julian Bond, the civil rights figure and former Georgia state legislator, is his nephew. Julian Bond is currently teaching at American University in Washington.
      