
        George Joseph Stigler, a Nobel Prize winner and intellectual anchor of the movement known as the Chicago school of economics, died at the University of Chicago's Bernard Mitchell Hospital on Sunday. He was 80 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Stigler died of heart failure, said the university, where he taught economics for the last 32 years.
        Mr. Stigler is probably best known to undergraduates as the author of "The Theory of Price," the coolly analytical textbook on free market economics that set the standard for a generation. Perhaps its most striking feature, and a trademark of Professor Stigler's writing, is that it sets economics in historical context.
        "Few other economists around remembered where the ideas came from," said Robert Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a fellow Nobel Prize winner. Gary Becker, a colleague at the University of Chicago, went further, calling Mr. Stigler "our modern interpreter of classical economics." Analyzed Everything
        As a practitioner and historian of economics, Mr. Stigler analyzed everything from the optimal size of corporations to rates of return in manufacturing to the demand for scientists.
        A conservative, he argued skillfully that the first priority for ending poverty was to make it possible for poor people to get jobs. Proposals to cut the minimum wage "will not please some people," he wrote in the mid-1960's. "A fine thing, they will say, to raise the economic status of the Negro boy by lowering his wage rate to a dollar an hour. A fine thing, indeed, I reply, to raise it from zero to a dollar."
        But from the perspective of professional economists, Mr. Stigler's most important contributions are in the theories of information and regulation.
        Before the 1961 publication of his article, "The Economics of Information," in the University of Chicago's Journal of Political Economy, economists had simply assumed that everyone shared the same knowledge of how markets worked -- say, the durability of an automobile for sale or the skills of a surgeon to be hired. Mr. Stigler argued that it costs money to acquire knowledge, and that consumers and businesses would therefore choose to buy limited quantities, much the way they choose to buy goods and services.
        This seemingly commonplace point created a whole field in economics, one that seeks to answer questions ranging from why the same product can be sold at different prices in different places to why some businesses lay off employees in hard times and some do not.
        The impact of Mr. Stigler's analysis of the political economy of regulation is less obvious, but perhaps more profound. Instead of taking the logic of government regulation at the word of legislators and regulators, Mr. Becker said, "he studied the actual effects of regulation -- why we get the regulation we get."
        Mr. Stigler's most famous conclusion, that price controls of electric utilities do not actually reduce the price of electricity, did not convince many analysts when it was published in 1962. But most economists today would put the burden of proof on those who support regulation.
        Mr. Stigler grew up in Seattle, the only child of the Austrian-born Elizabeth Hungler and the German-born Joseph Stigler. He studied economics at the University of Washington in Seattle, graduating in 1931.
        "It was the middle of the Depression and it seemed better to go to school than look for work," he told a biographer. The next year he moved to Northwestern University for a master's degree in business administration, and then enrolled in the doctoral program at the University of Chicago.
        Mr. Stigler's teachers included giants of the field like Frank Knight, Jacob Viner and Henry Simons.
        Dr. Stigler received his Ph.D. from Chicago in 1938, two years later he joined the faculty of the University of Iowa. Then it was on to the University of Minnesota, Columbia University, Brown University and back to Columbia before returning to the University of Chicago in 1958.
        The Nobel Prize in 1982 for his work culminated a career in which he raised the prestige and political influence of conservative economics. But, as Mr. Solow noted, "He was never an ideologue."  Intellectual Independence
        He was pro-business, but never gave up his intellectual independence in pursuit of business's approval. Indeed, in the 1950's he wrote scathingly about the inefficiency of the largest American corporations and even advocated the use of antitrust laws to cut them down to size. Later, he refused to serve in a prominent position in Richard M. Nixon's Administration and embarrassed Ronald Reagan's Administration by labeling supply-side economics "a gimmick."
        Mr. Stigler's wife, the former Margaret Mack, died in 1970. He is survived by three sons, Steven, a statistician in Chicago; David, a lawyer in Hartford, and Joseph, a social worker in Toronto, and 11 grandchildren.
      