
        Clarence W. Allgood, a Federal judge in Birmingham, Ala., who dismissed a 1963 case involving 1,100 black students who had been suspended for demonstrating against segregation, died of a gunshot wound over the weekend. He was 89 years old.
        Judge Allgood's body was found at his home on Saturday by his son, and a handgun was nearby, The Associated Press said. "Everything indicates it was self-inflicted," Sgt. LaFaree King-Walker of the Birmingham police told the news service.
        Judge Allgood served on the Federal bench for more than half a century, starting as a Federal bankruptcy judge in 1938.
        In working out bankruptcy settlements, "Judge Allgood fought U.S. Steel and some other people," said Stephen Coleman Jr., the son of one of Judge Allgood's colleagues on the bankruptcy court and a co-author of a biography of Judge Allgood. "At that time, if a man got several garnishments, the big corporations would just fire them. Largely due to the efforts of Judge Allgood, that ended."
        President John F. Kennedy nominated him for a Federal district judgeship in 1961.
        In the 1963 school case, the 1,100 students cut classes and marched in the streets. The Birmingham Board of Education announced that those under the age of 16 would be suspended and the rest would be expelled from school. Black leaders went to court, demanding that the students be reinstated on the ground that they had been illegally barred from the schools without hearings. Judge Allgood, who was considered a segregationist, dismissed their plea. He was soon overruled by Chief Judge Elbert P. Tuttle of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta.
        Born in Birmingham on Sept. 12, 1902, Judge Allgood attended Howard College there for three years. After transferring to Auburn University, where he received his bachelor's degree in 1926, he lost both legs when he fell under a train. He and some friends had been sneaking a ride on a boxcar, Mr. Coleman said.
        In the 1950's he helped to found the Crippled Children's Clinic in Birmingham.
        President Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed him to the bankruptcy post, and Judge Allgood went back to school, taking courses in law at night. He received his law degree from the Birmingham School of Law in 1942.
        He was given senior status as a judge several years ago, and had been hearing cases with the Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit.
        In addition to his son, Clarence W. Allgood Jr., he is survived by five grandchildren.
      