
        Gen. Richard G. Stilwell, retired, former commander of United Nations forces in Korea, died Wednesday at Fairfax County Hospital in Falls Church, Va. He was 74 years old.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, the Army said.
        General Stilwell, who was not directly related to Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell, the commander of United States forces in China, Burma and India during World War II, was born in Buffalo in 1917. A graduate of the United States Military Academy whose career in the Army spanned 39 years, he served in World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War, earning several decorations, including the Distinguished Service Medal.
        He had two tours of duty in Vietnam. The first, from 1963 to 1965, included a year as chief of staff to Gen. William C. Westmoreland, commander of American forces there. During the second, from 1968 to 1969, he was commander of the XXIV Army Corps, a three-division force concentrated in the northern two provinces of South Vietnam.
        In 1972, he took command of the Sixth Army, based in San Francisco. He was promoted to four-star general on Aug. 1, 1973, and appointed head of the United Nations Command in South Korea.
        In that capacity, he had operational command of 600,000 members of the South Korean armed forces as well American forces there. He was in command in August 1976, during a crisis brought on by the killing of two American officers by North Korean guards in the demilitarized zone between the two Koreas.
        He served in Korea until his retirement, on Nov. 1, 1976.
        In 1981, General Stilwell was appointed Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, a position he held until 1985.
        At the time of his death, he was president of Stilwell Associates, a consulting firm in Arlington, Va. He was chairman of the Korean War Veterans Memorial advisory board and had recently worked as a consultant to the Secretary of Defense and to the Central Intelligence Agency.
        Neither the Army nor the hospital released names of survivors yesterday.
      