
        Spiro Kostof, an architectural historian who was the host of the five-part series "America by Design" on public television in 1987, died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 55 years old.
        He died of lymphoma, said his physician, Dr. Norman Cohen.
        Mr. Kostof, who was a professor of architectural history at the University of California at Berkeley, was widely known for his strong oratorical style. He was both the author and the on-camera host of the television series, which sought to introduce laymen to architecture, landscape and urban planning by taking viewers on a wide-ranging tour to locations as diverse as urban centers, small villages, dams and strip mines.
        In addition to producing a book version of "America by Design," he was the author of many other books, including "The Caves of God," a study of the monastic environment of his native Turkey; "The Architect: Chapters in the History of the Profession"; "The Third Rome," and "A History of Architecture: Settings and Rituals." As a Social and Political Act
        He was noted for rejecting the traditional art historian's method of explaining architecture as a series of important buildings in a sequence of historical styles in favor of an approach that looked at architecture as a social and political act.
        In "A History of Architecture," he took a celebrated building by Louis Sullivan as a means of explaining his rationale: "To understand the Carson Pirie Scott department store in Chicago fully, we must know something of late 19th-century American capitalist enterprise, the philosophy of consumerism, and the business ethic; the urban history of Chicago since the fire of 1871; corporate financing and land values; the genesis of department stores as a novel concept in commercial architecture; the elevator and the early history of steel-frame skyscraper construction."
        Mr. Kostof was born in Istanbul. He came to the United States in 1957 to study drama at Yale University, then switched to art history. He taught art history at Yale until 1965, when he moved to Berkeley. He was also a visiting professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Columbia University and Rice University, and was president of the Society of Architectural Historians from 1974 to 1976. In 1988, he received an Institute Honor from the American Institute of Architects for his teaching and writing.
        He completed a two-volume study of urban form, "The City Shaped," released this month, and "The City Assembled," to be published next year.
        He is survived by a sister, Rita Kotsoglou, and a brother, Leandros Kostotoulos, both of Athens.
      