
        Robert Kasanof, a New York criminal lawyer who served as chairman of the city's Board of Correction and was director of the Legal Aid Society for more than a decade, died on Saturday at his Manhattan apartment.
        Mr. Kasanof, who was 62 years old, died of a heart attack, his wife, Stephanie, said.
        A tall husky man with curly hair and a crusader's combativeness in matters of legal or constitutional principle, Mr. Kasanof defended prominent financiers and politicians, impoverished defendants and unpopular causes in a career that spanned nearly four decades.
        As unsalaried head of the nine-member correction board from 1986 until his resignation on April 9, Mr. Kasanof helped set and enforce standards for the treatment of prisoners in all 16 city jails, evaluated the performance of the Department of Correction, and frequently criticized the department's policies and leadership.
        With jails crowded and tensions running high, Mr. Kasanof was often at odds with correction officials who wanted to squeeze more beds into cells and put prisoners on barges in an effort to comply with Federal court orders to ease overcrowding. He sharply questioned the managerial abilities of the Commissioner of Correction, Allyn R. Sielaff, who subsequently resigned.
        Mr. Kasanof also was critical of new procedures to review charges of misconduct against correction officers and of the force used to end a melee with Rikers Island inmates in August 1990.
        Mr. Kasanof was director of the Legal Aid Society, which defends people who cannot afford lawyers, from 1969 to 1971 and again from 1974 to 1983. He was the society's attorney-in-chief from 1971 to 1973 and had been a Legal Aid lawyer for four years early in his career.
        In private law practice, Mr. Kasanof represented many prominent clients, including the financier Michele Sindona, who lost a 1978 fight against extradition to Italy to face fraud charges; former State Senator Joseph R. Pisani, a Republican of New Rochelle, who was convicted of embezzlement and tax evasion in 1984; and E. Robert Wallach, an associate of former Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d who was convicted in a 1987 fraud case involving the Wedtech Corporation, a Bronx military contractor, but who had his conviction overturned in 1990.
        A frequent lecturer on computer crime, Mr. Kasanof was the author of "Prevention and Prosecution of Computer and High Technology Crime" (Matthew Bender, 1988). Active in Public Service
        Mr. Kasanof was born in New York City on April 24, 1929, the son of a chemist, and attended the Bronx High School of Science. He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1949 and earned a law degree there in 1952.
        Mr. Kasanof held many posts in public service with the state and national bar associations, the Police Foundation, the Mayor's Criminal Justice Coordinating Council and the Governor's Judicial Nominating Committee. He was also a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers.
        Besides his wife, the former Stephanie S. Katz, a psychotherapist whom he married in 1990, Mr. Kasanof is survived by a son, Adam, of New York, and a daughter, Amy Kasanof of Clarksville, Tenn.
        Correction:  December 3, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Robert Kasanof, former chairman of the New York City Board of Correction, referred incorrectly to Allyn R. Sielaff. He is the city's Commissioner of Correction; he has not resigned.
      