
        Joseph R. Smallwood, the politician credited by Canadians with leading Newfoundland and Labrador into the Canadian confederation in 1949, died on Tuesday night at his home outside St. John's, the Newfoundland capital. He was 90 years old.
        He had been suffering from several ailments, including recurrent pneumonia, for several years.
        Mr. Smallwood, known as Joey, was a salty figure who both infuriated and delighted Canadians with his efforts during 22 years as Newfoundland's Premier to extend the province's influence across the country.
        Newfoundland, which with Labrador was a British colony, decided to join the Canadian confederation in a 1948 referendum by a narrow 7,000 vote margin. Mr. Smallwood led the campaign for joining Canada against opponents who favored an economic union with the United States or that Newfoundland declare its independence. Known for Bluntness
        Rarely one to offer smooth comforts when blunt words would do, Mr. Smallwood made his mark by telling voters before the referendum that a rugged self-assurance born of centuries of hard-scrabble existence, mostly from fishing the rough seas of the Grand Banks, did not qualify them for independence.
        "We are not a nation," he told the Newfoundlanders, many of whom are of Scottish and Irish descent. "We are a medium-sized municipality left far behind the march of time." Asked years later what would have become of Newfoundland if it had not joined Canada, Mr. Smallwood replied, "We'd be bankrupt and destitute."
        The referendum ended nearly 400 years of British rule over the island of Newfoundland and the adjacent mainland territory of Labrador, which together became Canada's 10th and poorest province.
        A diminutive figure with an unflagging energy and outspokenness, Mr. Smallwood blustered and pestered his way into the national consciousness, winning a share of Canada's bounty in federal projects and payments to Newfoundland that were often the envy of other provinces. Legendary Stature
        Mr. Smallwood savored his designation as Canada's only living "father of Confederation," a label given to political leaders who founded Canada from four British colonies in 1867. But in tributes across Canada today, he was equally remembered for his dogged outspokenness and canny politics.
        Those qualities gave him a legendary stature on "the Rock," as Newfoundlanders call the craggy, windswept island of 575,000 people that is North America's easternmost outpost.
        One such tribute came from John Crosbie, Canada's Fisheries Minister, who was a political ally before leading a revolt inside Newfoundland's Liberal Party against what many regarded as Mr. Smallwood's idiosyncratic decision-making and taste for political intrigue. The rebellion led to Mr. Smallwood's ouster as the Newfoundland premier in 1972.
        "I would say he would occupy the same place in our history as Sir John A. Macdonald," Mr. Crosbie said. referring to Canada's first Prime Minister. "He was a real one-man political band. It wasn't a question of dialogue or debate." Began as Journalist
        Joseph Roberts Smallwood was born at Gambo, Newfoundland, on Dec. 24, 1900, the son of a sawmill owner. As a young man, he worked as a journalist in Newfoundland, reporting on the early trans-Atlantic flights for which Newfoundland was a staging post.
        In the 1920's, he worked in New York for leftist newspapers and for the Progressive Party. Returning to Newfoundland, he worked as a union organizer and a broadcaster. During World War II, he became a pig farmer and supplied the Gander Air Force Base, a stopover point for American aircraft and troops being ferried to Europe.
        As Newfoundland's Premier, he often described himself as a socialist and said that unfettered free enterprise resulted in "sheer, ghastly chaos." But his management of Newfoundland's financial affairs, including an early program of subsidized industrialization that led to widespread bankruptcies, was sharply criticized. But he was widely credited with being the moving force behind the giant Churchill Falls hydroelectric project in Labrador, one of Newfoundland's biggest sources of revenue.
        In his last years he accumulated heavy personal debt with a project to write and publish a four-volume encyclopedia of Newfoundland, two volumes of which were completed in 1981 and 1984. A campaign was begun across Canada that raised money to help pay off the debts.
        Surviving are his wife, Clara, two sons and a daughter.
      