
        The Rev. O. Urcille Ifill Sr., a national leader of the African Methodist Episcopal Church and a former president of the Black Clergy of Philadelphia, died Thursday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. He was 70 years old and lived in Philadelphia.
        Mr. Ifill died of congestive heart failure, said his daughter Gwen, a reporter in Washington for The New York Times.
        His career took him from the Trinity A.M.E. Church in Jamaica, Queens, through a succession of pastoral posts before his final position, as general secretary for the church, which has congregations throughout the world. Lifelong Advocate of Rights
        Mr. Ifill was known widely as an advocate for the disenfranchised. He struggled for civil rights, sought to bring more female ministers into the church and fought to convince its leadership that it should show compassion for people who had become ill with AIDS.
        In 1985, he played a crucial mediating role between Philadelphia officials and blacks who were outraged by the deaths of 11 people when the police bombed the headquarters of the radical group Move.
        Mr. Ifill was born in Panama in 1921. After his schooling was complete, he served as a missionary in the West Indies for nearly 10 years in the 1940's.
        He then immigrated to the United States, where he was a pastor at A.M.E. churches in New York City; Buffalo; Springfield, Mass., and in two small Pennsylvania communities before moving to Philadelphia. There, he served for a decade as pastor of the A.M.E. Union Church. He was elected president of the Black Clergy of Philadelphia in 1985 and became general secretary of the church in 1988.
        In addition to his daughter Gwen, Mr. Ifill is survived by his wife, Eleanor Husbands Ifill; three sons, Earle, the pastor of the Cosmopolitan A.M.E. Church in Atlanta, Oliver Jr., retired as a Social Security Administration district manager, of San Rafael, Calif., and Roberto, an economist and program associate at the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in New York; another daughter, Maria Phillip, a foreign service officer in Georgetown, Guyana; two granddaughters; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Lester A. Ifill Sr. of New York, and a sister, Olga Ifill of Panama.
      