
        Ben Davidson, a co-founder of the New York State Liberal Party and executive director when it was an occasionally pivotal force in state and local politics, died yesterday in the Guardian Rehabilitation Hospital in Los Angeles.  He was 90 years old and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. He died of complications from myasthenia gravis, his family said.
        The Liberal Party was born in the mid-40's in a split from the American Labor Party over allegations that Communists had infiltrated the Labor Party. The anti-Communist faction debated its course, including the possibility of casting its lot with the Democrats.
        Mr. Davidson gave a speech and made a motion to create a new party and give it the Liberal label. Joining in the movement were two important labor leaders, David Dubinsky of the International Ladies Garment Workers and Alex Rose of the hatters' union. They became vice chairmen and strategists of the party for many years. Mr. Davidson was the full-time director of the party until he retired in 1977. Concern With Social Issues
        Although a party with modest numbers of members, the Liberals polled up to hundreds of thousands of votes. Often vexing to the major parties, the new party fast became a force to be reckoned with.
        Mr. Davidson was frequently quoted as the Liberal spokesmen on endorsements and issues like speeding laws and foreign policy. He was especially concerned with social issues like housing, welfare, racial equality and civil liberties.
        The Liberals generally supported Democrats, sometimes swaying that party's choice of nominees and occasionally providing winning margins in close elections. The Liberals also backed some liberal Republicans, like Senator Jacob K. Javits. In some races the Liberals snubbed both and ran their own candidates.
        On rare but spectacular occasions, the Liberals managed to win upsets. Their most celebrated was John V. Lindsay's re-election to a second term as Mayor in 1969. He had run as a Republican-Liberal for his first term, but lost the Republican designation for re-election. Eventually he became a Democrat.
        The Liberals elected Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. as a Representative from Manhattan, but he failed in a gubernatorial contest in 1966 for governor against the incumbent, Nelson A. Rockefeller, a Republican, and the Democratic nominee, Frank D. O'Connor. The Liberals also elected Rudolph Halley as New York City Council President and over the years elected some members to the Council.
        Sometimes the gambles backfired. Liberal leaders were criticized in the aftermath of the 1970 election. They had endorsed a Republican, Senator Charles Goodell, instead of Democratic candidate Richard L. Ottinger, with the unintended result of sending a Conservative, James L. Buckley, to Congress as the upset victor. In recent years the Liberals' power waned, eclipsed by the Conservatives and the growth of the Right-to-Life Party.
        Mr. Davidson was born in Pittsburgh and studied at the University of Pittsburgh. He earned a bachelor's at Columbia University. After college he taught social studies in schools in Manhattan. He became a founder and an organizer of the Teachers' Guild.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Eve Chambers; a daughter, Karla Davidson Feitelberg of Beverly Hills; a son, John, of Woodside, Calif., and two granddaughters.
      