
        Robert Q. Lewis, a radio comedian, television host and panelist who was known as much for his fey wit as his trademark horn-rimmed glasses, died on Wednesday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old.
        He died of emphysema, said Peggy Bigelow, a friend.
        Mr. Lewis was perhaps best known for his frequent guest-host appearances on the television shows of Arthur Godfrey, Jack Paar, Dave Garroway, Perry Como, Faye Emerson, Jackie Gleason and Garry Moore during the 1940's and early 50's. During the early years of television, he also appeared on "Kukla, Fran and Ollie." Panelist and Moderator
        He was also a regular panelist on programs that included "What's My Line," "To Tell the Truth," "Call My Bluff" and "Play Your Hunch."
        Mr. Lewis was the first moderator of the show "The Name's the Same," the ABC program in which panelists tried to determine the names of contestants who were namesakes of famous personalities.
        He was also a lecturer, performing a 45-minute talk called "Through My Horn Rims," and he appeared in nightclub acts in Las Vegas and was heard on various radio stations as a disk jockey.
        As an actor, Mr. Lewis appeared on television series that included "Slattery's People," "Branded," "Camp Runamuck" and "The Bob Hope Theater." He appeared on Broadway in "Push Cart Affair" and also acted in the movies "An Affair to Remember," "Good Neighbor Sam," "Ski Party" and "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying."
        Mr. Lewis was born in Manhattan on April 25, 1920, and once described himself as "a precocious, horrible child." He added the initial "Q" to his name at age 22, when he began working in New York as a radio announcer and disk jockey, and told interviewers that it stood for Quizzical.
        He made his radio debut at age 11, when his mother took him to "Dr. Posner's Kiddie Hour," a local New York show; he soon became a regular.
        He attended the University of Michigan and left to join the Army in 1942, serving as a radio operator in the Air Force.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      