
        Chester V. Clifton Jr., a retired major general and senior military aide to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, died Monday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 78 years old.
        He died of pneumonia after an intestinal operation, a family member said.
        General Clifton, who was widely known as Ted, joined the Kennedy staff in 1961 and was the officer responsible for the President's daily morning intelligence briefings on world events.
        He was in the motorcade in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, when Kennedy was assassinated, and made arrangements with the White House to deal with military and national security affairs immediately after the assassination. A Public Relations Consultant
        General Clifton remained as military aide to President Johnson until 1965, when he retired from the Army, after 33 years of service.
        In December 1965, he was elected president of the Thomas J. Deegan Company Inc., a public relations and management counseling company. He formed Clifton-Raymond Associates Inc. in 1967, and the next year he established Clifton Counselors, a management consultant firm that dealt mainly with publishing affairs.
        Chester Victor Clifton Jr. was born in Edmonton, Alberta, and grew up in the Puyallup Valley near Tacoma, Wash. He attended the University of Washington, graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1936 and received a master's degree in journalism from the University of Wisconsin in 1948.
        Before his military career he worked as a reporter for The Seattle Post-Intelligencer and The New York Herald Tribune. Army Chief of Informatiion
        In World War II he served in the field artillery and fought in Italy, France and Germany. After the war he worked in public relations at the Army's headquarters in Washington, and later became an assistant to Gen. Omar N. Bradley.
        After attending the National War College in 1954 he served with the Army's European command in Paris. He was promoted to brigadier general in 1956 and returned to Washington, where he became chief of information for the Army.
        General Clifton was a co-author, with Cecil Stoughton, of "The Memories: J.F.K., 1961-1963," published by W. W. Norton; and served as public relations consultant in the development of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.
        When he retired General Clifton was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal. Among his other decorations are the Legion of Merit, the French Croix de Guerre and the Italian Cross of Military Valor.
        General Clifton, who lived in Washington, is survived by his wife, Anne Bodine, and a brother, John R. Clifton, of Napa, Calif.
      