
        Adm. Edward J. O'Donnell, who commanded the United States Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba, during the Cuban missile crisis and the Bay of Pigs invasion, died Monday at his home in Monterey, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Admiral O'Donnell, who retired in 1967, died of a heart attack, his family said.
        His two years at Guantanamo began in December 1960, just as the United States Government was about to sever diplomatic relations with Cuba. For much of the admiral's tenure at the base, he and his forces were on alert.
        The abortive Bay of Pigs invasion, conducted by anti-Commmunist Cubans covertly supported by the United States, followed in April 1961. In October 1962, President John F. Kennedy ordered a naval blockade to force Cuba to remove Soviet missiles from its territory.
        As commander of the 45-square-mile American base on the southeastern tip of Cuba, the soft-spoken admiral was responsible for securing the installation and its 17 miles of fence. On the other side of the fence, Cubans planted a wall of cactus. Service in World War II
        The base's daytime population was about 10,000 -- 3,300 American servicemen, plus their families and civilian employees, including Cubans who passed the gates daily. At one point Admiral O'Donnell ordered the evacuation of dependents and civilian Americans.
        Born in Boston, Admiral O'Donnell was educated in Roman Catholic schools there and went on to graduate from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md., starting his 42-year career with the Navy.
        In World War II, he was the gunnery officer on the aircraft carrier Lexington when she sank in the Battle of Coral Sea, the United States' first major sea engagement of the war.
        After the war he commanded Destroyer Division 32, and in the Korean War he commanded the amphibious ship George Clymer.
        After Korea he held numerous posts, including in Germany and Japan, and was commander of the battleship New Jersey and destroyer Flotilla Six. He was also director of the Far East Section of International Security Affairs for the Defense Department. He was promoted to rear admiral in 1957.
        He was serving as superintendent of the United States Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey when he retired from the service. He then became president of the New York State Maritime College in the Bronx for six years.
        Admiral O'Donnell's first wife, the former Ruth Hall, died in 1980. He is survived by his second wife, the former Jeanette Carnes; two sons, Neil of San Francisco and James of Houston; a sister, Sister Esther Marie of Wellesley, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      