
        Larry Josephs, a writer who described his harrowing, day-to-day struggle against AIDS with journalistic detachment and clarity in two articles for The New York Times Magazine, died Sunday evening at his brother's home in Freeport, L.I.
        Mr. Josephs, who was 34 years old, died of complications from AIDS, his mother said.
        In the second article, published in November 1990, Mr. Josephs described waking up after surgery for a collapsed lung in April 1990, the first seriously debilitating complication of the disease that he experienced. "My future, which had been receding into the shadows these many weeks, now seemed to be disappearing at high speed." He recovered, and was able to return to work for about a year.
        Mr. Josephs was the public relations director of the New York State Urban Development Corporation from 1988 until last July. A graduate of Brown University, he began his journalism career as a news assistant at The New York Times in 1980. Mr. Josephs worked as a reporter at The Miami Herald in 1983 and returned to The New York Times in 1985 as a news assistant on the editorial page. Diagnosed in 1987
        Mr. Josephs first learned that he was infected with the virus that causes AIDS in 1987, when he agreed to take an H.I.V. test while participating in a psychological study by Columbia University on the reaction of healthy gay men to the AIDS epidemic.
        Soon thereafter, Mr. Josephs became a voracious student of the disease, exploring medical avenues with the same spirited zeal with which he had once sought jobs and an affordable Manhattan apartment. He placed himself into what were then experimental treatments, such as the drug dideoxyinosine, or DDI. He also rediscovered his Catholic faith.
        His second article in The Times Magazine ended with these words: "But if there is one lesson I have learned over the past six months, it is the lesson of powerlessness. You see, there is nothing I can do about it. Except hope, and dream, and wait."
        Mr. Josephs is survived by his mother, Margaret Josephs, and his sister, Claire, both of Huntington, L.I., and his brother, Russell.
      