
        W. R. (Witt) Stephens, an Arkansas political leader and financier who helped build one of the largest investment houses off Wall Street, died on Monday at the St. Vincent Infirmary Medical Center in Little Rock, Ark. He was 84 years old and lived in Little Rock and Prattsville, Ark.
        Mr. Stephens died of natural causes after being hospitalized since Nov. 15, said Melissa Bowman, a spokeswoman for St. Vincent.
        Once a salesman of belt buckles and Bibles, Mr. Stephens had a down-home manner that masked a sharp acumen He founded the centerpiece of his business in Little Rock in 1933 when he opened the W. R. Stephens Investment Company, now Stephens Inc. Rated One of 400 Richest in U.S.
        With that beginning, he built a far-flung empire that included full or part interest in natural gas production, a data processing company, farming, cattle and a host of other enterprises. By the time he died, he was rated one of the 400 richest people in the nation by Forbes magazine, which estimated the net worth of him and his brother Jack at $900 million.
        As he increased the breadth of his business, Mr. Stephens, a Democrat, became one of the most influential people in Arkansas politics. He served as an unofficial adviser and fund-raiser for countless politicians in campaigns ranging from local races for sheriff to contests for governor and United States senator.
        One of his closest political associates was Gov. Bill Clinton, who said yesterday: "Witt Stephens was an Arkansas legend. He was a great business leader who helped to build our state, and he was a force in our politics for decades. He was also a good friend to me. I treasured his friendship and advice, and I will miss him very much."
        Wilton Robert Stephens was born in Prattsville, a small community about 35 miles southeast of Little Rock, and had only a sixth-grade education. He founded his securities firm to trade Arkansas highway bonds, which had been rocked by the Great Depression and were selling for as little as 10 cents on the dollar.
        The financier was encouraged to found the business by his father, A. J. Stephens, a state legislator who assured his son that Arkansas would someday make good on the bonds. The state did, in the early 1940's, enhancing Mr. Stephens's then-growing reputation as a sharp financial counselor and booster for Arkansas. Became State Legislator
        In 1946, Mr. Stephens's younger brother, Jack, joined the firm. By 1954, Mr. Stephens had expanded his business interests to energy, buying the majority stake in an ailing gas utility, the Arkansas Louisiana Gas Company, where he served as president. Jack Stephens took over the jobs of chairman and chief executive of the securities firm.
        By the early 1960's, Mr. Stephens had expanded his growing political ties in the state by winning a seat in the Arkansas House of Representatives.
        In 1973, Mr. Stephens stepped down from his job with the Arkansas Lousiana Gas Company, returning to Stephens Inc., where he served as a director and also as a bond salesman. He continued working there, selling bonds by telephone, until he was hospitalized last month.
        In addition to his brother, who lives in Little Rock, he is survived by his wife, Bess; three daughters, Frances Trimble, Elizabeth Campbell and Pamela Rose, all of Little Rock; a son, Wilton Robert Stephens Jr. of Little Rock, and three sisters, Wilma Thornton of Sheridan, Ark., Lois Lowe of Little Rock and Jewell Mays of Prattsville.
      