
        Ernst Krenek, a composer whose works touched on nearly every avant-garde style of composition in this century, died yesterday in a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 91 years old and lived in Palm Springs.
        He died of respiratory failure, said his wife, Gladys.
        In a prolific career that began in Vienna, Mr. Krenek's works were influenced by Bartok, jazz, Austrian Romanticism, Stravinsky's Neo-Classicism, Schoenberg's 12-tone compositions, the aleatoric music of the 1950's and electronic instrumentation. Opera With Jazz Influences
        His most famous work remains the opera "Jonny Spielt Auf" (1925-26), a tale of a black jazz violinist. The work was such a success in his native Austria that a brand of cigarettes was named after it. The opera was performed in 100 cities and was translated into 18 languages. Its Metropolitan Opera premiere was in 1929 in a production that was among the most expensive of its time. "Jonny," aside from its jazz influences, which were then in fashion in European composition, also included "concrete" sounds like automobile horns.
        Mr. Krenek's operas in the following decades, most with his own librettos, ranged in their subjects from a satire of sports heroes to the legend of the Argonauts. A list of symphonies, concertos, choral works, piano works and string quartets -- most of which are rarely heard -- fills two columns in the New Grove Encyclopedia of Music and Musicians.
        His compositions, with their varied styles, contrapuntal intricacies and episodic lyricism, have had many advocates among a select number of critics and performers. The pianist Glenn Gould, for example, praised Mr. Krenek's independence, his elegiac style and his "unique musical temperament." But his public reputation was linked to the style of Serial composition to which he attached himself. 'An Artistic Religion'
        Writing about Mr. Krenek's 1937 book about new music, for example, his fellow composer Roger Sessions described Mr. Krenek's advocacy of Serial music as "an artistic religion" to which the book is a "confession of faith." Like other composers of his generation, and like the philosopher Theodor Adorno, who admired his work, Mr. Krenek thought it necessary to isolate himself from the public and to suggest in his music "the loneliness and alienation of humanity." For Mr. Krenek, this artistic faith combined with a devout Catholicism.
        Despite his avowed independence, Mr. Krenek was continually integrating developments in composition into his works, while preserving the Schoenbergian attitude of proud opposition until his last works, written in his 80's.
        Mr. Krenek was born in Vienna on Aug. 23, 1900, and studied at the State Academy of Music in Berlin with Franz Schreker. He assisted in conducting and composition at opera houses in Kassel and Wiesbaden before his big success with "Jonny." A Political Interruption
        Dismayed by events in Europe, he wrote the opera "Karl V" for the Vienna State Opera (1930-33); its praise for a universal Catholic empire was based upon the life of Emperor Charles V, but it met with political opposition. Rehearsals were stopped, and the premiere was presented in Prague in 1938; Vienna first presented the work in 1984.
        Immigrating to the United States in 1938, Mr. Krenek taught in Boston and at Vassar College before becoming head of the music department and dean at Hamline University in St. Paul. He taught at a variety of universities in the United States and moved to Los Angeles in 1947.
        He is survived by his wife.
      