
        Jack Tannen, a retired antiquarian bookseller whose lower Manhattan emporium was a mecca for book lovers, died early Tuesday in Memorial Hospital in Hollywood, Fla. He was 84 years old and lived in Hollywood.
        The cause of his death was not clear but was probably heart failure, his family said.
        For half a century Mr. Tannen was in partnership with Jack Biblo in the Biblo & Tannen antiquarian book business, which they closed in 1979. It was housed for more than 25 years in a brownstone at 63 Fourth Avenue, between Ninth and 10th streets.
        "It's always been a struggle, but it's always been fun," Mr. Tannen said in 1979, ebullient despite health problems that were a main reason for the closure. He moved to Florida afterward. Mr. Biblo lives in Brooklyn Heights. Books A Through Z
        Mr. Tannen was born in Warsaw, was brought to New York as a boy, went to public schools and was still young when he and Mr. Biblo opened their business, originally on East 14th Street. Mr. Tannen used to say that customers were so few and far between at first that both partners had time to read all the way through the Encyclopedia Britannica.
        But the two boned up on the book trade, doing research at the New York Public Library, going to auctions and acquiring skill and sophistication if not vast wealth.
        "It's a business that's more than a business," Mr. Tannen said fondly in 1973, "but if you want to make money, forget it."
        He used to watch out for shifts in the market values of first-edition books the way a yachtsman looks out for shifts in the wind. And he watched for other opportunities. A Customer Named Sandburg
        Carl Sandburg used to come into the shop now and then, and Mr. Tannen used to get him to write down his name and address each time. After perhaps the fourth time, the famed poet and biographer asked, "Are you selling my autograph?"
        Of course," the famed bookseller replied.
        "That's different," Mr. Sandburg said. And he signed again.
        Mr. Biblo and Mr. Tannen also went into book publishing, under the Canaveral Press imprint, in the 1960's and 1970's. Their output ranged from scholarly tomes to "Tarzan and the Madman" by Edgar Rice Burroughs.
        Mr. Tannen was the author of "How to Identify and Collect American First Editions," which came out in 1976.
        His first wife, the former Billie Walsheim, died in 1949.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Vivian Allen; a daughter and son from the first marriage, Carole Tannen Jay of Stonybrook, L.I., and Robert, of New Orleans; a son from the second marriage, Michael, of Nashville; five sisters, Pauline Stelnik and Flo Silber, both of Hollywood, Fla., Esther Steinholz of Spring Valley N.Y., Rose Schlier of Westwood N.J., and Bee Glaubinger of Hollandale Fla., and five grandchildren.
      