
        Kent Rhodes, the former chief of Reader's Digest and retired spokesman for the nation's magazine industry, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and also lived in Fishers Island, N.Y.
        He died of cancer, relatives said.
        In his 33 years at Reader's Digest's offices in New Castle, N.Y., he was responsible for several major innovations. As its worldwide production manager, he played a key role in creating international editions for Europe, Africa, South America, Australia and the Far East, pioneering in the use of high-speed offset lithography and coated paper for higher quality printing of those editions. Computerized Subscriber Lists
        He also was in charge of computerizing the magazine's lists of millions of subscribers in 1956. In the early 1960's he introduced computers and optical scanners to create new promotion and billing systems.
        Rising steadily in the company, he was eventually promoted to president and chief operating officer in 1975 and became chief executive officer in 1976 and chairman in 1977. He left at the end of that year, having reached the mandatory retirement age of 65.
        For the next four years he served as the full-time president of the Magazine Publishers Association of America, where earlier he had been the part-time chairman.
        The industry was undergoing change as new publications of specialized topics and advertising emerged and often flourished, while some major general-interest magazines stagnated. He was quick to defend the industry's basic health, citing overall gains in circulation and the willingness of readers to pay rising newsstand prices.
        A prime concern for publishers was the recurring escalation of postal rates. He led lobbying efforts to curtail rates, using the expertise he had gained overseeing postal issues for Reader's Digest and serving on two Federal postal advisory councils and a presidential commission on postal service.
        He was born in Brooklyn and grew up there. He was a graduate of Dartmouth College and worked eight years as a production manager at Fortune magazine before going to Readers' Digest.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Christina Riordan; two sons, David and Mark, both of East Hampton, Conn., and a daughter, Jean Matthews of Palm Beach, Fla.
      