
        Hector Orezzoli, who created "Black and Blue" and other Broadway revues with his partner, Claudio Segovia, died Thursday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 38 years old.
        Mr. Orezzoli died of cardiopulmonary arrest, Mr. Segovia said.
        Mr. Orezzoli and Mr. Segovia also created "Tango Argentino" and "Flamenco Puro." With "Black and Blue," the productions were part of a set of four in which the men attempted to present the traditions of popular artists whose work they believed was in danger of being lost. The fourth piece, "Noche Tropical," a revue of Cuban music and dance, is scheduled to open in Japan in January.
        It was "Tango Argentino," a sizzling celebration of the tango, that brought the collaborators their first international fame. The revue quickly became a sensation in Paris but opened quietly in New York in June 1984 for a weeklong season at City Center. It was soon one of the hottest tickets in town. The pattern was repeated when it reopened the next year at the Mark Hellinger Theater and was forced to extend a five-week engagement for the season. Winner of Tony Awards
        Mr. Orezzoli and Mr. Segovia followed their success in New York with "Flamenco Puro," which opened to rave reviews in October 1986 at the Hellinger. "Black and Blue," a vivid idiosyncratic homage to black American tap and blues, opened in January 1989 and ran for two years at the Minskoff, which the two men redesigned for their show. "We tried to give a sensation of a place we'd like to arrive at to see a show," Mr. Orezzoli said in an interview that year. "We tried to create the sensation of something like the provincial theater or a movie house I'd go to as a child to see a revue, where they'd have some red curtains, some sets." "Black and Blue" won four Tony Awards, including one to its creators for best costume design.
        Mr. Orezzoli once described their shows, lavish and affectionate tributes to arts that they loved, as "handmade works" that were "the kind of entertainment that can also deal with ideas."
        Mr. Orezzoli, who was born in Buenos Aires, studied literature and psychology at the University of Buenos Aires and drama and scenic design at the University of Belgrano, also in Buenos Aires. In 1973, he was introduced to Mr. Segovia, a theater designer, and began to work with him. During their first 10 years, they created spectacular revues devoted to leading musical artists in South America and designed sets and costumes for opera and theater in theaters throughout Europe. "Flamenco Puro," which opened in Seville in 1980, was the first revue they conceived, designed, directed and produced for European audiences.
        Mr. Orezzoli is survived by his mother, Aida Zanini de Orezzoli; his father, Emilio, and a brother, Roberto, all of Buenos Aires.
      