
       Turk Murphy, a trombonist and founding father of the traditional jazz revival that began in the San Francisco area in the 1940's, died of cancer Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 71 years old.
        Turk Murphy, a trombonist and founding father of the traditional jazz revival that began in the San Francisco area in the 1940's, died of cancer Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Murphy was the only key figure of the jazz-revival movement who still led a band playing the music of that revival.
        In January, he played not only his first engagement in New York in more than a quarter of a century, but also made his Carnegie Hall debut, playing to an enthusiastic audience that filled the hall and overflowed onto the stage.
        The program was drawn from the New Orleans-based work of King Oliver, Louis Armstrong, Jelly Roll Morton and others associated with the emergence of jazz in the first three decades of this century.
        In 1940, Mr. Murphy was the trombonist in Lu Watter's newly formed Yerba Buena Jazz Band, which met in after-hours sessions at the Big Bear Tavern in the Oakland hills across the bay from San Francisco.
        ''We were all professional musicians and we were making a living,'' he recalled earlier this year just before his Carnegie Hall debut. ''But we weren't satisfied.''
        ''We thought we should take one longshot at something that needed a shot -New Orleans jazz, which nobody was playing then,'' he said. ''So we started this do-or-die attempt to revive the music.'' Opened Earthquake McGoon's
        The Hot Music Society of San Francisco brought the band into the Dawn Club on Annie Street, behind the Palace Hotel, where the group became a local sensation and a magnet for traditional jazz fans around the world.
        The band members stayed together until 1948. Mr. Murphy then formed his own band and took it on the road. For three years it was based in New York City, where it played at the Roundtable, Basin Street East and the Embers.
        In 1960, Mr. Murphy and his musicians returned to San Francisco, where he opened his own club, Earthquake McGoon's, a name taken from Al Capp's comic strip ''Li'l Abner.''
        Mr. Murphy was born in Palermo, Calif., and grew up in Williams, Calif., where he was a four-letter athlete in high school and picked up his nickname, the Terrible Turk. His real name was Melvin Alton Edward Murphy.
        He is survived by his wife, Harriet, and a son, Carson.
      