
       Tuvia Bielsky, the leader of an armed band of Jewish partisans in Nazi-occupied Byelorussia that was known as Bielsky's Brigade, died yesterday in Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn. A resident of Brooklyn, where he used the surname Bell, he was 81 years old.
        Tuvia Bielsky, the leader of an armed band of Jewish partisans in Nazi-occupied Byelorussia that was known as Bielsky's Brigade, died yesterday in Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn. A resident of Brooklyn, where he used the surname Bell, he was 81 years old.
        Mr. Bielsky's group operated against the Nazis from the forests of the Novogrudok region of Byelorussia in the Soviet Union, beginning in 1941.
        The band harbored Jewish families and conducted raids against the German occupiers, derailing troop trains, ambushing soldiers, blowing up bridges and electric stations and punishing collaborators, according to accounts of the Jewish resistance.
        The author Reuben Ainsztein, in the ''Jewish Resistance in Nazi-Occupied Eastern Europe,'' described the brigade as one of several partisan groups operating out of the Naliboki forests near Novogrudok.
        The group was formed by Mr. Bielsky and two of his brothers, Zusye and Eshahol, who had been familiar with the huge forest since childhood. Their father was a miller in a village at the forest's edge. Tuvia Bielsky became the band's leader.
        The band had few arms at first, but, with the help of some Russian soldiers who had escaped from the Germans, arms were obtained. When word got out that the Bielskys accepted women and children, unlike other partisans, their numbers grew, reaching about 1,200 in 1943.
        The Bielsky Brigade, which became one of the largest partisan groups in the region, disbanded in 1944. After the war, Mr. Bielsky immigrated to Israel and, in 1956, to the United States. He then shortened his name to Bell.
        He operated a trucking business here until he retired, according to members of his family.
        He is survived by his wife, Lillian; two sons, Michael Bielski of Brooklyn and Robert Bielsky of Belle Harbor, Queens; a daughter, Ruth Rennert of Rochester; four brothers, Nathan Bell and Alex Bielsky of Brooklyn, Rabbi Joshua Belski and Aaron Bell of Manhattan; two sisters, Estelle Herschtahl of Coral Springs, Fla., and Tajbe Seltzer of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      