
       Walter W. Heller, the chief economic adviser of Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, died Monday of a heart attack at his second home, near Seattle, his office in Minneapolis reported today. He was 71 years old.
        Walter W. Heller, the chief economic adviser of Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, died Monday of a heart attack at his second home, near Seattle, his office in Minneapolis reported today. He was 71 years old.
        ''In many respects, he is a major contributor if not the father of modern economic policy-making,'' said Alan Greenspan, who was President Ford's chief economist and is now chairman-designate of the Federal Reserve Board. ''He defined a lot of the terms and the issues. One might disagree with some of his solutions but not with the questions he raised.''
        Senator Paul A. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, said that Mr. Heller, ''over many decades, made a major contribution to the vigor and prosperity of our society.'' 'Fascinating Public Discipline'
        Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, ''When you were in a room with Walter Heller, economics was never the 'dismal science' but a fascinating public discipline alive with possibilities for hope and progress.''
        Mr. Heller was best known for his single-minded and ultimately successful drive in the early 1960's to enact sweeping cuts in personal and business income taxes, and, after he left office, for development of the theory of revenue sharing under which states and localities are deemed more efficient spenders of Federal tax revenues than Washington.
        Mr. Heller, trim and tall, at nearly 6 feet 4 inches, retired as a professor of economics at the University of Minnesota last year but remained active. He was planning to teach his introductory economics course in the fall and was still writing and making consulting visits to Washington, as he did last week. He had had a physical examination in recent weeks, his office at the university reported, and was found to be in sound health.
        President Kennedy appointed Mr. Heller, then an economics professor at Minnesota, to be chairman of his Council of Economic Advisers in December 1960, as the new President was preparing to take office. Mr. Heller remained in that position until late in 1964, as President Johnson's chairman. He was a close adviser to both, unlike most of his predecessors, and he called himself an ''educator of Presidents.''
        Along with the late Arthur M. Okun and the late Otto Eckstein, and James Tobin of Yale, Mr. Heller was a member of a constellation of liberal economists, associated with Democrats and trained in the days of the New Deal, who dominated economic policy-making throughout the 1960's.
        They are often given much of the credit for defining the policies behind the economy's prolonged stretch of largely inflation-free growth then, a period of prosperity that the country has not matched since. The economy, Mr. Heller said, ought to grow beyond the size it reached before a recession began and the unemployment rate should fall by more than it rises in a recession. To help the economy achieve such a performance, he urged tax cuts even if that meant some deficit spending. Insufficient Heed to Inflation
        But the tax-cutting and deficit-spending theories - derived largely from those of John Maynard Keynes, the British economic philosopher- paid insufficient heed to inflation, and for a while, Mr. Heller publicly discounted incipient signs of the problem. The virulent inflation that gathered speed in the 1970's turned many economists away from Keynesianism and contributed to the rise of the small-government, free-market, supply-side view of economics that President Reagan popularized. Mr. Heller criticized the Reagan economics because of the record budget deficits associated with them.
        But he was candid, too, in faulting his own policies once he became aware of the inflation associated with them. As early as 1964, fearing that inflation would rise with the surge in Federal spending to pay for the war in Vietnam, Mr. Heller reversed position on taxes. He appealed to President Johnson for a tax increase, but the President rebuffed him.
        ''He was advising that we had to raise taxes to finance the Vietnam buildup,'' said George Perry, economist at the Brookings Institution and a close associate of Mr. Heller's since the time Mr. Heller gave him his first job, as a junior economist on the staff of the Council of Ecomomic Advisers. ''Johnson wouldn't take the advice, and we ended up overheating the economy. That led to the stubborn inflation of the 1970's and it put the economics of the 1960's into disrepute.'' 'Marvelous Brain-Picker'
        Mr. Perry described Mr. Heller as a ''marvelous brain-picker'' who built a lively staff of bright economists, all of whom contributed to the theoretical underpinnings of President Kennedy's New Frontier and the Johnson Great Society. ''What came out,'' Mr. Perry said of the council sessions then, ''was better than what went in.''
        Mr. Greenspan said: ''If ideas Walter held were contradicted by evolving evidence, he was quick to change. If Walter said something was black, it was black. If it turned to white, he'd spot it first.''
        Mr. Heller's personal economics, more than policy differences with President Johnson, prompted his resignation. At the time he had three children in college and a debt of $16,000.
        He was born in Buffalo, the son of immigrants from Germany. He earned his bachelor's degree at Oberlin College in Ohio, where he was Phi Beta Kappa, and his master's and doctorates in economics from the University of Wisconsin. He spent most of his career as a professor of economics at Minnesota, eventually becoming chairman of the department of economics.
        But he also followed a parallel career in government and consulting, working for four formative years in the Treasury Department as a tax analyst. He wrote frequently for the opinion pages of newspapers, served on the boards of corporations and advised foreign governments. Of economists not in the Government, Mr. Heller probably was seen in Washington more than any other. He was here last week for a meeting at the Congressional Budget Office.
        Mr. Heller's wife, the former Emily K. Johnson, died of cancer in July 1985 after many years battling lupus, a degenerative disease. He leaves a daughter, Kaaren Heller Davis, who lives near Seattle and was visiting him when he became ill, and two sons, Walter P., who is a professor of economics at the University of California at San Diego, and Eric J., a professor of chemistry and physics at the University of Washington in Seattle.
      