
       Richard Roth Sr., an architect whose family-owned firm changed the Manhattan skyline with towering structures like the World Trade Center, the Pan Am Building and many luxury hotels, died Tuesday of a heart attack at New York University Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Richard Roth Sr., an architect whose family-owned firm changed the Manhattan skyline with towering structures like the World Trade Center, the Pan Am Building and many luxury hotels, died Tuesday of a heart attack at New York University Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Roth was chairman of the board of Emery Roth & Sons, which was founded by his father. He joined the firm in 1928 after his gradation from M.I.T. His son, Richard, is president.
        He guided the firm to a position of leadership in the design of more than 150 high-rise buildings and luxury hotels around the country.
        Most of them are in Manhattan, including the General Motors headquarters building on Fifth Avenue at 59th Street, the Park Lane Hotel on Central Park South and the Palace Hotel, a multi-use structure that incorporates a luxury hotel, apartments, stores, office space and the landmark Villard Houses on Madison Avenue, behind St. Patrick's Cathedral. Curtain Walls
        His firm also designed the Madison Hotel in Washington and the 350-room Sheraton Airport Hotel in Philadelphia.
        Mr. Roth is credited with making many contributions to contemporary design and construction, among them significant advances in the design of curtain walls, which are basically self-supporting enclosures. He was elected a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects in 1968 for his contribution to the ''science of construction.''
        In 1967, Mr. Roth was among a group of architects that opposed plans to build an office building atop the waiting room of Grand Central Station.
        ''I feel the same way about Grand Central that I feel about the Plaza Hotel or the Custom House down at the Battery,'' he said. ''They've got to be saved.'' Father Founded Firm
        His father, Emery Roth, a Hungarian immigrant with no formal architectural training, founded the firm in 1903. He, too, added richly to Manhattan's skyline, filling it with apartment buildings, including the Belleclaire on Broadway at 77th Street, the San Remo on Central Park West and The Normandy at 140 Riverside Drive, at 86th Street.
        But while his father, who died in 1947, believed in masonry buildings, Richard Roth changed the image of the firm to one of high-rise glass and steel towers.
        In 1971, after two fires in New York City high-rise office buildings, Mr. Roth helped advise the city on new safety measures that were enacted and incorporated in the New York City Building Code.
        He served on the board of directors of the Federation of the Handicapped, helping it design a new building devoted to the training of the handicapped for jobs.
        He was born in Manhattan in 1904 and served in the Navy during World War II. He commanded the 35th Construction Battalion of Seabees and was awarded the Bronze Star for meritorioius service.
        He is survived by his brother, Julian, of Manhattan; two sons, Richard Jr., of Manhattan, and Emery, of Washington Depot, Conn.; four grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
        Funeral services will be private, with a memorial service to be announced at a later date.
        RICHARD ROTH SR., 82, IS DEAD
      