
       Eugene L. Futterman, an architect and teacher noted for a wide range of houses in the Hamptons, died of liver cancer Monday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 51 years old.
        Eugene L. Futterman, an architect and teacher noted for a wide range of houses in the Hamptons, died of liver cancer Monday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 51 years old.
        Mr. Futterman, who was born in New York City, established an architectural practice based in New York and on Long Island in 1964, and shortly thereafter moved full time to the Hamptons. From his home and office in Water Mill, he soon became one of the region's most prolific architects, eventually designing more than 100 residential projects. Trained as a modernist, his career epitomized the shift in taste away from modernism that many architects of his generation experienced. His houses grew gradually more traditional, and in his last years he designed houses that closely resembled the Shingle Style architecture that was built in the Hamptons in the early years of this century, as well as one large house whose forms alluded to an Adirondack lodge. A Pre-eminent Designer
        Mr. Futterman's recent houses were generally better received by critics than were the modernist buildings of his earlier years, and at his death he was considered one of the pre-eminent designers of traditional houses in eastern Long Island. His practice flourished, and he had recently completed several major houses in East Hampton and Southampton. As one of the first architects with roots in New York City to relocate to the Hamptons, his office provided a training ground for many younger architects who chose to settle in the Hamptons. Mr. Futterman retained close ties to both New York architects and to his adopted home, and he often served as a bridge between the architectural communities of both places.
        Mr. Futterman's work was not dogmatic, and he was noted for his willingness to accommodate the needs of clients. Even his traditional houses tended to have open, soaring interiors reminiscent of the modernist mode he had forsaken, an apparent contradiction he explained by pointing out that he wished the interiors to express the life styles of his clients while the exteriors related to the architectural spirit of the surroundings.
        An enthusiastic teacher, Mr. Futterman was a guest lecturer at the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1962, and from 1963 to 1973 served as an instructor in fine arts, architecture and interior design at the Pratt Institute, from which he received a Bachelor of Architecture degree in 1957. Last year, he turned his efforts to teaching young children about architecture as architect in residence at the Hampton Day School in Bridgehampton, L.I.
        Before establishing his own practice, Mr. Futterman worked for Edward Larrabee Barnes, Robert Rosenberg, and Sasaki, Walker & Associates.
        He is survived by his wife, Sonnie; two daughters, Abbe of New York City and Amy of Water Mill; his father, Abraham, and his stepmother, Belle, of New York City, and a brother, Martin, of Florida.
      