
       Fred Astaire, whose flashing feet and limber legs not only made him America's most popular dancer but also set standards for motion picture musical comedies that have rarely been met and never exceeded, died of pneumonia yesterday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88 years old.
        Fred Astaire, whose flashing feet and limber legs not only made him America's most popular dancer but also set standards for motion picture musical comedies that have rarely been met and never exceeded, died of pneumonia yesterday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Astaire blithely danced his way into the heart of an America tormented by the Depression and edging toward World War II. His deceptively easy-looking light-footedness, warm smile, top hat, cane, charm and talent helped people to forget the real world that nagged at them outside the movie house.
        In a statement released by the White House press office, President Reagan said: ''Nancy and I are deeply saddened by the loss of a very dear friend. Fred Astaire, an American legend, has died. We join the entire nation in mourning his passing, and our heart-felt sympathies are with his wife, Robyn, and his family.'' 'The Ultimate Dancer'
        ''Fred was, in every sense of the word, a 'superstar,' '' Mr. Reagan said. ''He was the ultimate dancer -the dancer who made it all look so easy.''
        The Astaire legend, which spanned more than six performing decades on stage, screen and television, began before he was 10 years old when his mother paired him as a dancer with his sister, Adele, the partner with whom he first found success.
        Mr. Astaire starred in more than 30 film musicals between 1933 and 1968. Eleven of these co-starred Ginger Rogers, his most durable dancing partner. The music they danced to was written by the cream of the popular-music world, including Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, Jerome Kern and George and Ira Gershwin.
        There were other famous dancers, but few could match the sophistication and inventiveness of Mr. Astaire in such films as ''Flying Down to Rio,'' ''The Gay Divorcee,'' ''Top Hat,'' ''Swing Time,'' ''Follow the Fleet,'' ''Blue Skies'' and ''Easter Parad For all the lushness of his films, often in settings of splendor and champagne, Mr. Astaire projected a down-to-earth personality, that of a good-hearted fellow whose effortless steps, even at their most dazzling, matched his casual demeanor.
        His dance numbers fit neatly within the bounds of a movie screen, but they gave the illusion of being boundless, without regard for the laws of gravity or the limitations of a set.
        He danced with Rita Hayworth atop a wedding cake (''You'll Never Get Rich,'' 1941), danced on roller skates (''Shall We Dance?'' 1937), danced while hitting golf balls off a tee (''Carefree,'' 1938) and danced up the walls and on the ceiling (''Royal Wedding,'' 1951). He danced while airborne, aboard ships and in countless ballrooms where he glided flawlessly across wide-open spaces. It was the kind of dancing that caught the imagination, even of those who disdained the thought of witnessing any dancing at all.
        He was popular and beloved, a thin, sandy-haired man 5 feet 9 inches tall, who fretted and sweated off-camera and offstage to make his dance come across with a spontaneity that few could equal. During a long career in which he went from vaudeville to Broadway to Hollywood and later to triumph in television - his own special, ''An Evening With Fred Astaire,'' won nine Emmy Awards in 1957 - he never failed to delight mass audiences. 'Greatest Dancer in World'
        He was also a paragon among his professional peers. George Balanchine, the artistic director of the New York City Ballet and a man whose supreme standards rarely allowed for superlatives, called him, simply, ''the greatest dancer in the world.''
        Irving Berlin, in whose musical ''Top Hat'' Mr. Astaire wore the topper and tails that became the dancer's working hallmark, said: ''He's not just a great dancer; he's a great singer of songs. He's as good as any of them - as good as Jolson or Crosby or Sinatra. He's just as good a singer as he is a dancer - not necessarily because of his voice but by his conception of projecting a song.'' On learning of Mr. Astaire's death, Mr. Berlin told The Associated Press yesterday that ''there hasn't been such a talent as his.''
        ''He was an international star,'' Mr. Berlin added.
        Anna Kisselgoff, dance critic of The New York Times, gave this description of the Astaire genius: ''At its most basic, Mr. Astaire's technique has three elements - tap, ballet and ballroom dancing. The ballet training, by his account, was brief but came at a crucial, early age. He has sometimes been classed as a tap dancer, but he was never the hoofer he has jokingly called himself. Much of the choreographic outline of his dancing with his ladies - be it Miss Rogers or Miss Hayworth - is ballroom. But of course, no ballroom dancer could dance like this.''
        The Astaire seen in performance was a different Astaire from the one who lived out of the spotlight. He detested formal dress, although his personal wardrobe was stylish, and frequently told interviewers how he regarded top hat and tails as no more than working dress, certainly nothing to be worn on his own time.
        The easygoing air that surrounded his own performance was developed by a dancer who was extremely serious and painstaking about his work. He was frequently described as a perfectionist, and the evidence seems to leave little doubt that he worked with more than average diligence to bring his production numbers to final gloss. 'Can't Just Sit and Do It'
        ''Dancing is a sweat job,'' he said in a Life magazine interview when he was 66. ''You can't just sit down and do it, you have to get up on your feet. When you're experimenting you have to try so many things before you choose what you want, that you may go days getting nothing but exhaustion. This search for what you want is like tracking something that doesn't want to be tracked.''
        ''It takes time to get a dance right, to create something memorable,'' he continued. ''There must be a certain amount of polish to it. I don't want it to look anything but accomplished and if I can't make it look that way, then I'm not ready yet. I always try to get to know my routine so well that I don't have to think, 'What comes next?' Everything should fall right into line and then I know I've got control of the bloody floor.''
        Mr. Astaire kept himself and his own ability in perspective as the years went by with his capacity for agonizing self-appraisal. He stopped dancing professionally about 1970, when he was already more than 70 years old. Why Go on Forever?  ''I don't want to be the oldest performer in captivity,'' he said nearly a decade later. ''I don't know why anybody should expect a dancer to go on forever. I don't want to be a professional octogenarian. I feel very much the same as I have always felt, but I couldn't attempt to do the physical exertion now without being a damn fool. At this age, it's ridiculous. I don't want to look like a little old man dancing out there.''
        The Astaire dance story did not start at birth, but was begun not long after that event, which took place in Omaha on May 10, 1899. His name was Frederick Austerlitz, the same as his father's, a brewery worker and an emigrant from Austria who during World War I Anglicized the family name to Astaire.
        As soon as the boy could toddle, he toddled along with his mother to pick up his sister, who was 18 months older than Fred, at dancing school. She was outstanding as a dancer at the age of 6 and it wasn't long before their mother, Ann Geilus Austerlitz, had Fred studying ballet there, too, at the age of 4.
        A few years later, Mrs. Austerlitz took the children to New York, where they were enrolled in the performing-arts school run by Ned Wayburn, a pioneer in modern tap dancing. By the time Fred was 7, they had an act called Juvenile Artists Presenting an Electric Musical Toe-Dancing Novelty.
        When Fred was 10, he and Adele -who were to become one of the best-known dance teams in the country -made their first professional appearance, in vaudeville, in a Keyport, N.J., theater where they earned $50 for a split-week date. Brother-Sister Team
        The teen-age brother and sister hoofed their way through the Middle West but climbed to the first rung of success and critical attention in a Shubert Broadway revue, ''Over the Top,'' in 1917. The show was not a hit, but the Astaires were and they were immediately booked into ''The Passing Show of 1918,'' in which a critic called Fred ''an agile youth, and apparently boneless.''
        There followed more theater engagements and, finally, stardom in 1922 in ''For Goodness' Sake,'' which had several songs by George and Ira Gershwin. In the New York production, the Astaires had sixth billing, but they stole the show.
        The Astaires danced their way to Broadway triumphs in the 1920's, starring in 11 musicals, among them ''Funny Face,'' ''Lady, Be Good!'' and ''The Band Wagon,'' their last big hit together in 1931. Adele married Lord Cavendish in 1932 and retired from the stage. At her retirement, Mr. Astaire said: ''She was a great artist and inimitable, and the grandest sister anybody could have.'' She died in 1981. His Last Stage Musical
        Mr. Astaire found a new partner, Claire Luce, and in 1932 they starred in Cole Porter's ''Gay Divorce'' - later filmed as ''The Gay Divorcee'' - in which he introduced the song ''Night and Day.'' It was his last stage musical. In that year he took a screen test and was approved by David O. Selznick of RKO Pictures, who found that the dancer's charm was tremendous, even though he had ''enormous ears and a bad chin line.''
        His first movie was ''Dancing Lady'' (1933), with Joan Crawford and Clark Gable. This was followed the same year by ''Flying Down to Rio,'' in which he appeared with Ginger Rogers. The hit of the movie was their performance of Vincent Youmans's ''Carioca,'' and although they did not have top billing they danced off with the laurels.
        From that point on, they were the uncontestable stars of their films. Their string of successes at RKO included such hits as ''Top Hat,'' ''Roberta'' and ''Swing Time,'' ending in 1939 with ''The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle.''
        The only film he made without Miss Rogers during that time was the 1937 ''Damsel in Distress,'' which co-starred Joan Fontaine. Mr. Astaire and Miss Rogers were later reunited for a last time in M-G-M's ''Barkleys of Broadway'' in 1949.
        From 1940 on, Mr. Astaire made movies for many studios with many dancing partners, among them Miss Hayworth (''You Were Never Lovelier,'' 1942), Lucille Bremer (''Yolanda and the Thief,'' 1945), Judy Garland and Ann Miller (''Easter Parade,'' 1948), Cyd Charisse (''The Band Wagon,'' 1953, and ''Silk Stockings,'' 1957) and Audrey Hepburn (''Funny Face,'' 1957). Nominated for an Oscar
        Mr. Astaire's later years saw him adapting to other assignments. His role as a scientist in ''On the Beach'' (1959) was called his first nonmusical, dramatic part, and drew critical praise, although in 1948 he had appeared in a comedy, ''On Our Merry Way.'' In 1975 he was nominated for an Oscar for his supporting role in ''The Towering Inferno.'' Mr. Astaire had never been nominated for an Oscar as an actor when he was a musical star, although he received an honorary Oscar in 1949 for his musical contributions.
        He again drew critical praise, with Gene Kelly, in 1976 when the two served as lively hosts of the film ''That's Entertainment, Part 2.'' His autobiography, ''Steps in Time,'' which, he emphasized, he wrote himself, was published in 1959.
        In later years, his daily routine was little changed from the life he had always led: He woke up at 5 A.M. and breakfasted on a single boiled egg that kept his weight at a perpetual 134 pounds. Addicted to television serials such as ''The Guiding Light'' and ''As the World Turns,'' he would telephone his housekeeper if he could not watch the soap operas to find out what had happened.
        In 1973, the Film Society of Lincoln Center, along with the Museum of Modern Art and the City Center of Music and Drama, co-sponsored a tribute to Mr. Astaire at Philharmonic (now Avery Fisher) Hall in a two-and-a-half-hour gala for which he selected 40 dance excerpts from 200 he reviewed in his films. In 1981, he was honored at a dinner, attended by many stars in the entertainment world, given for him by the American Film Institute, which presented him with its ninth Life Achievement Award.
        Mr. Astaire's first wife, Phyllis Livingston Potter, whom he had married in 1933, died in 1954. In 1980, at the age of 81, he married Robyn Smith, then 35 years old. A catalyst for this romance was a shared interest in horses; she was a jockey and Mr. Astaire had for more than 30 years been a stable owner and a serious student of the turf.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Astaire is survived by three children, Fred and Ava, from his first marriage, and Peter, a son of his first wife's previous marriage.
        Correction:  June 26, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition
      