
       Earl Muntz, better known as Madman Muntz, a zany advertiser who sold used cars, low-priced television sets and car stereo systems, died of lung cancer today at Eisenhower Medical Center. He was 73 years old.
        Earl Muntz, better known as Madman Muntz, a zany advertiser who sold used cars, low-priced television sets and car stereo systems, died of lung cancer today at Eisenhower Medical Center. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Muntz began buying and selling cars as a teen-ager in Elgin, Ill., but did not come to the public's attention until moving to the Los Angeles suburb of Glendale in the 1940's and launching an offbeat ad campaign on billboards and radio.
        He adopted the nickname Madman in defiance of the thinking then that used car salesmen ought to project a staid image. He was portrayed on billboards as a cartoon figure in red flannel underwear and a three-cornered hat.
        ''I buy 'em retail and sell 'em wholesale - more fun that way,'' read one early billboard. Another advertisement said: ''I wanna give 'em away, but Mrs. Muntz won't let me. She's crazy!'' The radio commercials played on classical music themes, setting M-U-N-T-Z to melodies. Three Varied Fortunes
        As the new image brought success in used car sales and nationwide celebrity to Madman Muntz, he began selling new cars as well, with Kaiser-Frazer franchises in Los Angeles and New York City.
        In a long and varied career, Mr. Muntz made three fortunes in three different fields. A Los Angeles Times article in 1968 pointed out that one year he sold $72 million worth of cars, that five years later he sold $55 million worth of television sets and that he then sold $30 million worth of car stereos and cartridge tapes in 1967.
        Mr. Muntz learned to build radios as a boy, and in the 1950's he started Muntz TV Inc. to manufacture televisions and sell them directly to consumers. In the same years, he even built his own automobiles for a while, selling a few hundred sports cars called the Muntz Jet.
        In the mid-1960's, the Muntz Electronics Company was a pioneer of car stereo with its Muntz Stereo-Pak, an early eight-track tape player. In later years, Mr. Muntz sold satellite dish antennas.
        Mr. Muntz embraced the wacky image of his ads and reveled in their use by such radio comedians as Bob Hope, Jack Benny and Steve Allen. The Madman Muntz car lots became tourist attractions, and a 1946 survey by Panner Motor Tours found that Madman Muntz ranked seventh among things in southern California that interested visitors.
        Mr. Muntz is survived by a son, James, 46; a daughter, Tina, 34, and a sister, Cathy.
      