
       Paul S. Willis, a business executive and former president of the Grocery Manufacturers of America, died Friday at the Bayberry Nursing Home in New Rochelle. He was 96 years old and a resident of Bronxville, N.Y.
        Paul S. Willis, a business executive and former president of the Grocery Manufacturers of America, died Friday at the Bayberry Nursing Home in New Rochelle. He was 96 years old and a resident of Bronxville, N.Y.
        As head of the Grocery Manufacturers trade association 1932 to 1965, Mr. Willis played an active role in formulating policies and practices for national food manufacturers.
        He served on several governmental committees that were concerned with food distribution, conservation and unfair trade practices.
        In World War II, Mr. Willis coordinated food supplies sent to American troops in Europe and served on the Food Industry War Committee. To avert food shortages at home, Mr. Willis led a move by the food industry to establish direct communications with consumers to inform them of the wartime food situation. Foreign Relief Efforts
        Under his leadership, the trade association took a public stand in November 1944 favoring the use of surplus foods for foreign relief efforts, with the remainder to be placed on the domestic market at a fair price.
        After the war, Mr. Willis pressed wholesale grocery companies to modernize their facilities in preparation for the growing competition expected with the removal of price controls on food.
        Mr. Willis was born on a cattle ranch in Hallettsville, Tex., on Nov. 8, 1890. He graduated from high school in San Antonio and completed his education in business administration through correspondence courses.
        He went to work for Comet Rice Mills as a stenographer, and by the age of 22, he had become vice-president. He remained with the company for the next 20 years, holding the positions of general manager and director.
        At the end of 1932, he was elected president of the Grocery Manufacturers of America and re-elected annually until his retirement in 1965, when he was named president emeritus. Opposition to Roosevelt
        After the United States entered World War II, Mr. Willis was openly opposed to President Roosevelt's policy on food subsidies, declaring that subsidies meant ''postponing the payment of the nation's grocery account.''
        In 1947, Mr. Willis served on the Citizens Food Committee, whose goal was to advance a program for voluntary food conservation. Under this program, he called on consumers to buy goods that were plentiful.
        When the Korean War led to hoarding of food supplies in August 1950 he moved to reassure the public, announcing that manufacturers had ample supplies to meet the emergency.
        Mr. Willis was a member of the New York State Food Commission, the United States Commerce Department's Business Advisory Council, the American Trade Association Executives and the business advisory board of the College of the City of New York. He also served as chairman of the American Food-for-Peace Council and as a member of the executive committee of the United States Freedom From Hunger Foundation and other organizations.
        He is survived by his wife, Arlene Kieta, of Bronxville.
        PAUL S. WILLIS IS DEAD AT 96
      