
       Tucker Ashworth, the director of public affairs for the New York City Planning Department and a former vice president of the Battery Park City Authority, died Saturday night of complications resulting from AIDS at the New York University Medical Center. He was 32 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Tucker Ashworth, the director of public affairs for the New York City Planning Department and a former vice president of the Battery Park City Authority, died Saturday night of complications resulting from AIDS at the New York University Medical Center. He was 32 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Ashworth, whom friends and colleagues knew as cheerful, ebullient and indefatigable, cared deeply about urban design and development. He was involved in the Municipal Art Society's drive to find private benefactors for public monuments and in its two-year-old fellows program.
        He also campaigned vigorously on behalf of people with AIDS who wanted to keep their jobs or find new ones. He offered himself as a hopeful example of someone who had been hired after being diagnosed as having acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
        ''People with AIDS can still work,'' Mr. Ashworth said in an interview last February in The New York Times. ''If you can work, you continue to have a sense of worth, and you can continue your life.'' He was named to the planning agency in August 1986 and stayed on the job until April of this year. Posts With Other Agencies
        From 1984 to 1986, Mr. Ashworth worked at George Trescher Associates, a private publicity and fund-raising concern. He was vice president for public information at the Battery Park City Authority from 1982 to 1984. Before that, he had been assistant director for public information at the State Urban Development Corporation, which he joined in 1979.
        Mr. Ashworth grew up in Bronxville, N.Y., and graduated from New York University in 1979. He did public-relations work for the Federation of Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, in which his parents played a major role.
        For 14 years, Mr. Ashworth lived with Herbert Muschamp, who directs the graduate program in architecture and design criticism at the Parsons School of Design.
        He is survived by his parents, Richard and Amy, of Bronxville, and two brothers, Everard, of San Francisco, and Eric, of Manhattan. A memorial service is to be held in coming weeks.
      