
       Orville H. Schell Jr., a former president of the City Bar Association and chairman of the New York City Ballet, died of cancer Wednesday in Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 78 years old and a resident of Redding Ridge, Conn., and Manhattan.
        Orville H. Schell Jr., a former president of the City Bar Association and chairman of the New York City Ballet, died of cancer Wednesday in Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 78 years old and a resident of Redding Ridge, Conn., and Manhattan.
        A prominent Wall Street lawyer, Mr. Schell was active in human rights, including serving as chairman of Americas Watch, a human-rights organization monitoring Latin America and the Caribbean. He also cut a wide swath in New York City's political and cultural life.
        In addition to being chairman of the New York City Ballet, he was the head of a mayorally appointed theater advisory council that drew up a series of proposals in 1984 for preserving Broadway's 44 legitimate theaters. Led State Commission
        In 1975, Mr. Schell was appointed by Gov. Hugh L. Carey as the chairman of a Moreland Act commission, which spent a year investigating the reasons for the financial collapse of the State Urban Development Corporation.
        In his work for Americas Watch, he often traveled abroad to look into human-rights violations. In 1979, for example, he led a delegation to Argentina and sharply criticized Argentina's lawyers afterward for not speaking out against repression. The risk of detention or abduction, the group's report said, had ''chilled the willingness of lawyers to represent the unpopular and made the repression of rights far simpler for the Government.''
        Mr. Schell was at the center of a human drama at Kennedy International Airport for three days in August 1979, when the authorities kept a Soviet airliner on the ground to determine whether a Soviet ballerina, Lyudmila Vlasova, the wife of Alexander Godunov, a dancer who was defecting, wanted to stay in the United States with her husband.
        The ballerina was finally allowed to leave after Mr. Schell, meeting with her in a mobile airport lounge along with American and Soviet officials, got her answer. It was no.
        Mr. Schell had been board chairman of the New York City Ballet since 1980. Gillian Attfield, the board president, said yesterday that Mr. Schell was ''very active'' on the board but asked a year ago to be ''taken out of a leadership position'' because of illness. Earlier this month, she said, the board named him chairman emeritus.
        He was chairman partner of Hughes, Hubbard & Reed, having been with the Wall Street law firm for many years. Marched in Peace Parades
        Mr. Schell was a product of the establishment - educated at Lawrenceville Academy, Yale and Harvard Law School. But he was anything but a conventional Wall Street lawyer. In the late 1960's, he marched in peace parades and helped organize a group of 1,000 lawyers who marched on Washington to protest the United States military campaign in Cambodia.
        During his presidency of the City Bar Association from 1972 to 1974, the group, one of the most prestigious in the country, took stands on such issues as the appointment system for judges.
        Orville Hickok Schell Jr. was born on July 11, 1908, in New Rochelle, N.Y. His father practiced medicine there, and the son was ready to become a doctor too until squeamishness took over. ''I watched my dad do an operation and I took a nose dive on the operating room floor,'' he said. Served in the Navy
        He got a job with a law firm in 1933 after getting his law degree. Except for a brief stint in the advertising business in the early 1940's and service in the Navy during World War II, his entire professional career was spent on Wall Street.
        His long list of outside activities included serving as chairman of New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, vice chairman of the Citizens Helsinki Watch Committee, a private group monitoring implementation of the 1975 Helsinki accords, and a trustee of the South Street Seaport Museum and Vassar College. He served on the boards of the New York Urban Coalition and the Regional Plan Association of New York. Two of his sons, Orville 3d and Jonathan, are well-known authors.  His first marriage ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his second wife, Elinor; three children from his first marriage: two sons, Orville, of Bolinas, Calif., and Jonathan, of Manhattan, and a daughter, Suzanne Pearce of Cambridge, Mass.; three sons from his second marriage: Christopher, Andrew and Peter, all of Redding Ridge, and six grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled for tomorrow at 2 P.M. at the First Church of Christ Congregational in Redding Center, Conn.
        ORVILLE SCHELL JR.,78, DIES
      