
       Harry T. Silverman, a New York manufacturing executive and investor, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a brief illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Harry T. Silverman, a New York manufacturing executive and investor, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a brief illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Silverman made his mark in a succession of corporate ventures and was a former top executive at the giant Whelan drug and United Cigar store chains.
        Born in New York City and educated in its public schools, he had to quit college to go to work as a fountain-pen salesman but lost that job when lightning set the factory afire in 1932. Undaunted by the Depression, he went into business with a $2,000 bank loan to sell pens of his own manufacture. President of Brass Works
        The company grew but Mr. Silverman abandoned pens in 1947 and bought Dorset Products, which made vanity cases, ladies' compacts and handbags.
        The sale of part of the company to Plume & Atwood in the early 1950's made Mr. Silverman president and principal stockholder of that Connecticut brass works and metal-stamping concern. The company became the Plume & Atwood Brass and Copper Corporation after it sold its manufacturing segment.
        With that transaction, Mr. Silverman became the dominant shareholder as well as president and then chairman of Landers, Frary & Clark of New Britain, Conn., a maker of appliances and housewares. The company was in financial straits at the time, but Mr. Silverman and his new management team turned it around by 1960.
        Mr. Silverman was a benefactor of Albert Einstein College of Medicine and St. John's University Law School, where he had taken courses as a young man. He also founded the Silverman Foundation to support educational and charitable causes.
        Mr. Silverman is survived by four sons, Richard, of Stony Brook, L.I., Barry, of Greenwich, Conn., Kenneth, of Los Angeles, and Jeffrey, of Manhattan, and 13 grandchildren.
        A funeral service is scheduled for 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
      