
       Albert Wiggin Selden, who co-produced ''Man of La Mancha,'' one of Broadway's biggest hits, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 64 years old and and lived in Manhattan until moving to New Mexico three years ago.
        Albert Wiggin Selden, who co-produced ''Man of La Mancha,'' one of Broadway's biggest hits, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 64 years old and and lived in Manhattan until moving to New Mexico three years ago.
        Mr. Selden also was the guiding spirit behind the restoration of the landmark Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., which reopened in 1963 with Mr. Selden as its managing director. One of his first projects as a producer there became the now legendary musical tale drawn from the life of Cervantes and his ''Don Quixote.''
        Teamed with Hal James as co-producer, he gave ''Man of La Mancha'' its world premiere in mid-1965 at the Goodspeed. The show - with book by Dale Wasserman, music by Mitch Leigh and lyrics by Joe Darion - underwent its tuneup on the banks of the Connecticut River.
        The musical had its premier at the ANTA Washington Square Theater on Nov. 22, 1965, and was a runaway success, Tony Award winner and recipient of the New York Drama Critics Circle Award.
        The show moved to Broadway in 1968 for a total of 2,328 performances before ending its run in 1971. It also spawned a whole industry of touring productions, summer stock and stagings in many other countries. Co-produced 'Irene'
        Mr. Selden was a native of New York City, a grandson of Albert Henry Wiggin, chairman and president of the Chase National Bank, and son of Lynde Selden, vice chairman of the American Express Company. He was a graduate of the Hotchkiss School and, in 1943, of Yale, where he decided on a theatrical career. He served as a first lieutenant in the Army in World War II, saw action in Europe and was decorated with a Bronze Star.
        His entree to Broadway as an investor and composer was a well-received revue of 1948, ''Small Wonder.'' He then wrote the music for Carly Wharton's ''Month of Sundays,'' and made his Broadway debut as a producer with the John D. Hess comedy ''The Grey Eyed People'' in 1952.
        He wrote the music and lyrics for Anita Loos's ''Amazing Adele,'' which faltered in Boston in 1956. Another production, ''The Body Beautiful'' with Jack Warden and Mindy Carson, made it to Broadway in 1958, as did ''The Girls Against the Boys'' the following year.
        More recently, Mr. Selden co-produced with Harry Rigby and Jerome Minskoff the musical ''Irene,'' which Debbie Reynolds made into a hit in 1974. Audiences loved it, but others connected with the show, including Mr. Selden, had a falling-out over questions of financing and management.
        ''It has been a draining experience -financially and emotionally,'' Mr. Selden remarked. ''My life would be easier if I never got involved with 'Irene.' ''
        Away from Broadway, he opened the Goodspeed Opera House to musical-theater workshops and productions meant to bring fresh life to the American musical theater.
        Mr. Selden is survived by his second wife, the former Carlye Rogerson; three daughters, Susan Egan of Manhattan, Patricia Blake of Greenwich, Conn., and Carlye Selden Jr.; four sons, Albert W. Jr., of Stanton, Calif.; Lynde 2d, of San Diego; Paul, of Nyack, N.Y., and Richard, of Anchorage, Alaska; two stepchildren, Abbe Carroll of Manhattan and Tom Carroll of Sacramento, Calif.; two sisters, Joan Matthews and Muriel Paris, both of Greenwich, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      