
       Stan Lomax, a radio sports broadcaster for almost 50 years, died Friday night at the Cedar Manor Nursing Home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 88 years old.
        Stan Lomax, a radio sports broadcaster for almost 50 years, died Friday night at the Cedar Manor Nursing Home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Lomax had been at the nursing home since late January, suffering from the effects of several minor strokes and diabetes.
        The distinctive voice of Mr. Lomax was heard for many years on WOR in New York as well as the Mutual Broadcasting Network. He reported on boxing, baseball and Army football games on the Mutual network. In addition he broadcast games for the New York Americans hockey team that predated the Rangers in the National Hockey League and joined Marty Glickman on New York Knicks' broadcasts in the old Basketball Association of America.
        But he was probably best known for the 15-minute results broadcasts he did for 43 years on WOR until he left the station in 1977. The show aimed at providing thorough coverage, giving ample time to college and sometimes high school results, when other shows concentrated primarily on professional sports. He moved the show to WNYC and then was host of a sports call-in talk show on WBAI until 1981, when he retired.
        Henry Stanley Lomax was born on May 20, 1899, in Pittsburgh. He moved with his parents to New York at an early age and was graduated from St. Paul's School in Garden City, L.I., in 1916. He volunteered and served for the Royal Canadian Air Force as a navigator in World War I. After he was graduated from Cornell University in 1923, he became a sportswriter and later covered the Brooklyn Dodgers in baseball and also covered college football. He began his radio career by filling in for Ford Frick, a fellow reporter and broadcaster.
        Mr. Lomax's wife of 61 years, the former Betty Colker, died last year. He is survived by his son, Charles, and two grandchildren, Elizabeth and Charlotte.
        A funeral service will be at 11 A.M. Tuesday at the Cathedral of the Incarnation in Garden City, L.I.
      