
       Shmuel Tamir, a prominent Israeli lawyer who was Minister of Justice in the right-wing coalition Government of Prime Minister Menachem Begin, died yesterday at his home in Herzliya. He was 64 years old.
        Shmuel Tamir, a prominent Israeli lawyer who was Minister of Justice in the right-wing coalition Government of Prime Minister Menachem Begin, died yesterday at his home in Herzliya. He was 64 years old.
        Mr. Tamir served as Justice Minister under Mr. Begin from October 1977 until he resigned in August 1980 over how much power his political group should have in the Cabinet of the Likud bloc Government.
        His service in the Begin Cabinet included membership for a time on the Israeli team that conducted highly contentious negotiations with Egypt over Palestinian autonomy in territories occupied by Israel in 1967. Mr. Tamir was a strong advocate of retaining Israel's hold on the territories.
        Mr. Tamir, who was born in Palestine in 1923, first came to public attention during the British Mandate as acting commander in Jerusalem of the guerrilla movement headed by Mr. Begin, Irgun Zvai Leumi. Exiled to Kenya
        His association with the Irgun, during which he dropped the family name of Katznelson for the underground name of Tamir, began in the late 1930's and ended when he was exiled to Kenya by the British in 1946. He returned to Israel after it became independent in 1948.
        While in Kenya, Mr. Tamir studied law by correspondence with the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, and he received his law degree upon his return to the new nation.
        Over the next two decades, he built a reputation as one of Israel's most accomplished lawyers, often taking cases that were not politically popular.
        Mr. Tamir, who founded the small Free Center Party as a less hard-line offshoot of Mr. Begin's Herut Party, was elected to the Israeli Parliament in the mid-1960's, when the Government was dominated by the Labor Party.
        He retired from politics in 1984 but remained active as a lawyer and helped negotiate the release of Israelis captured during the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth, a son, two daughters and a sister, all of whom live in Israel.
      