
        Yvonne Bryceland, who was best known for her performances in the anti-apartheid plays of her fellow South African Athol Fugard, died on Jan. 13 at Royal Free Hospital in London. She was 66 years old.
        She died of bronchial pneumonia as a result of cancer, said Brian Astbury, her husband.
        Miss Bryceland, whose maiden name was Heilbluth, was born in Cape Town on Nov. 18, 1925. Her professional collaboration with Mr. Fugard began at the Cape Performing Arts Board in 1967. For the Cape Performing Arts Board, she created the roles of Millie in Mr. Fugard's "People Are Living There" and Lena in his "Boesman and Lena." In 1971, she performed outside South Africa for the first time in "Boesman and Lena" at the Royal Court Theater in London. Founded Cape Town Troupe
        Miss Bryceland's first marriage, to Daniel Bryceland, ended in divorce. In 1972, with Mr. Astbury, her second husband, she founded the Space Theater in Cape Town, the first theater in South Africa to welcome actors and audiences of all races.
        At the Space Theater, Miss Bryceland created the role of a white librarian involved in an interracial romance in Mr. Fugard's "Statements After an Arrest Under the Immorality Act," a role she eventually took to the Royal Court in 1974. Her performance as an elderly artist in Mr. Fugard's "Road to Mecca" won her awards in South Africa, London and New York. A film version of that play, starring Miss Bryceland in her original role, had its premiere in South Africa last summer.
        Miss Bryceland moved to London in 1978 to take the lead role in "The Woman," a play by Edward Bond, at the Royal National Theater. She spent eight years at the National, playing leading roles in Bertolt Brecht's "Mother," Mr. Fugard's "Road to Mecca" and others.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Mavourneen, of Cheltenham, England; Colleen King of Cape Town, and Melanie Whetstone of London, and seven grandchildren.
      