
        Shirley Jenkins, a noted social work researcher, author and educator, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Jenkins wrote 10 books and was the founding director of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice. The center is co-sponsored by Columbia University's School of Social Work and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. It seeks to integrate academic theory and clinical practice.
        She taught at Columbia for 25 years until her retirement two years ago. She was chairwoman of Columbia's Advisory Committee for Ethnic Studies and served on its Commission on the Future of the University, the University Senate and the Faculty Executive Committee. Served on Several Panels
        She was director of research training in social work and mental health for the National Institutes of Health from 1977 to 1988. She was also a member of the United States Department of Health and Human Services's expert panel, the New York State Advisory Committee on Refugee Mental Health and the New York City Task Force on Minorities in Child Care.
        Among the issues she studied for government and private agencies were cultural factors in providing social services to new immigrants, family welfare programs, foster care, Social Security and the shortchanging of minorities and the poor in the allocation of park and recreation services.
        Born Shirley Presberg in New York City, she earned a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College, a master's degree from Columbia and a doctorate from New York University.
        Early in her career she focused on international affairs. From 1944 to 1948 she was the associate editor of Far Eastern Survey, a journal. From 1948 to 1950 she was a political officer for the United Nations Department of Security Council Affairs. She also wrote "American Economic Policy Toward the Philippines" (Stanford University, 1954).
        Her husband, David, died in 1967. She is survived by two sons, Peter, of Queens and Ian of Manahttan, and three grandchildren.
      