
        James E. Hair, one of 13 blacks who broke the Navy's color barrier by tutoring each other and winning record scores to become officers in World War II, died on Jan. 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in Queens.
        The apparent cause of death was heart disease, relatives said.
        Mr. Hair was the grandson of slaves. The Navy was still segregated when he enlisted in 1942, with blacks relegated to jobs like cooks and stewards.
        President Franklin D. Roosevelt, prodded by his wife, Eleanor, challenged the racial policy. Reluctantly, the Navy selected some blacks for its officers' school at Great Lakes Training Station, near Chicago. But it kept them segregated and gave them only eight weeks of training -- half the normal period. Some candidates suspected they were being sabotaged.
        They banded together as the Golden Thirteen, for the gold stripes they aspired to wear. The nightly lights-out order was their cue to cover the windows with blankets and keep studying. They taught each other. One was a lawyer, and drilled them on Navy regulations. Another was an expert signalman, and another had worked on fishing boats. Navy Didn't Believe Scores
        When their examinations were graded, the scores were so high that skeptical Navy officers ordered them retested. The results were even higher, averaging 3.89 out of 4 -- the best class score ever recorded there. No graduation ceremony was accorded the men, but they were commissioned as ensigns on March 17, 1944. They were featured in Life magazine.
        Mr. Hair was assigned as the skipper of the U.S.S. YTB-215, a tugboat. In 1945 he was promoted to first lieutenant as the first black officer on the U.S.S. Mason, a landing ship with an all-black crew, which sailed in Asia. The black officers encountered some resistance in the Navy, and after the war all but one left for other careers.
        Decades later the modern, integrated Navy flew Mr. Hair and others from the group around the country for speeches and recruitment. He was fond of telling Navy stories and took special pride in the Golden Thirteen. In 1987 they reunited at Great Lakes for a ceremony naming the Golden Thirteen Recruit Inprocessing Center. Among the dignitaries were a vice admiral and the rear admiral commanding the station, both blacks.
        Mr. Hair was born in Blackville, S.C., the 19th of 21 children of a Baptist minister. He grew up in Fort Pierce, Fla., and graduated in 1938 from Bethune Cookman College, a two-year school, where he was class president. In 1942 he earned a bachelor's degree from Xavier University in New Orleans.
        After the war, he returned to Fordham University for a master's degree in social work. He was a caseworker and supervisor for 31 years, briefly in Detroit and mostly in New York City. He worked for Roman Catholic and other private agencies, often specializing in foster care and adoption.
        Surviving are two daughters, Danita Brown of Stamford, Conn., and Janette Susan Dent of Dayton, N.J.; a son, James H. Jr., also of Dayton; a brother, Langley of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; three sisters, Carrie Elllis and Rose Emma Gilliam, both of Fort Pierce, and Carnell Williams of Santa Maria, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
      