
        Pedro Manuel Valls, a partner in the New York interior design firm of Siskin-Valls and a former fashion assistant to Halston, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41 years old.
        The cause of death was complications from AIDS, said his partner and longtime companion, Paul Siskin.
        Mr. Valls, who was known as Perucho, became a partner in Siskin-Valls in 1986. The firm specializes in residential work with clients in Venezuela, Holland and Italy as well as the United States. Mr. Valls brought an innovative and elegant point of view to his interior design schemes that reflected his background in the world of fashion. The grand gesture was a favorite way of anchoring the look of a room.
        In 1988 Siskin-Valls was invited to participate in the prestigious Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Showhouse. Mr. Valls and Mr. Siskin designed a stylish and fanciful room that was focused on an elaborately dressed chair. The chair with its capelike, embroidered slipcover and horsehair crinoline was one of the hits of the showhouse.
        Mr. Valls, who was born in Caracas, Venezuela, studied art and design at the INCIBA Institute of Caracas and at the Parsons School of Design in New York in the late 1970's. Created Window Displays
        He came to New York in 1974 and began his career creating window displays for Diane von Furstenberg Inc. and the Valentino Boutique. He had also worked as an assistant to Issey Miyake, the Japanese fashion designer, and put together special events for Renny Inc., the florist.
        In 1976 Mr. Valls began his association with Halston, starting with the window displays at the Halston Boutique on Madison Avenue.
        Halston then hired him as an assistant, a position he held until 1983. During that time, he worked on costume designs for the Martha Graham Ballet Company, coordinated the Halston fashion shows and was a stylist for the company's photography sessions.
        Mr. Valls is survived by his mother, Consuelo Gorrin, and a half-sister, Isolde Basterchera, both of Caracas.
      