
        John R. Everett, the first Chancellor of the City University of New York and the president emeritus of the New School for Social Research, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan and Pawling, N.Y.
        He died of pancreatic cancer, the New School said.
        As an undergraduate at Park College in Parkville, Mo., Dr. Everett was not sure what he wanted to do in life. The son of a college president, he grew up to head two colleges -- Hollins College in Roanoke, Va., which named him president when he was 31 years old, and the New School, where he took over in 1964. In between, he presided over the nation's largest urban college system.
        When he was named to the City University job in 1960, educators who had followed his career from a small women's college in central Virginia to the urban campuses of New York said that he had taken only one downward step in his entire life. That was when he was 15. A sleepwalker, he tumbled out a third-floor bedroom window, breaking 36 bones. Candidates in Short Supply
        The City University post had been created three years before it was offered to him, but the Board of Higher Education had had trouble finding a candidate, in part because the $25,000-a-year salary was comparatively low. Another stumbling block was that no one was entirely certain what the Chancellor's power would be over top administrators at the city's four four-year colleges -- City, Hunter, Brooklyn and Queens -- and two-year community colleges in the Bronx, Queens and Staten Island.
        "Nobody can really define the job yet," he said several months before his inauguration.
        He resigned in 1962 for what he said were "overwhelmingly personal and financial" reasons, taking a job with Encyclopedia Britannica.
        He was chosen to head the New School two years later and guided it as it grew into a full-scale urban university. In the nearly 19 years he was in charge of an institution that had long prided itself on swimming against the prevailing academic current, the New School's enrollment grew from 8,000 students to 30,000, Parsons School of Design merged with the New School and an undergraduate college was set up.  Created Graduate School
        Dr. Everett also turned the Center for New York City Affairs into a full-scale Graduate School of Management and Urban Professions and created an Institute for Retired Professionals. The New School's annual operating budget went from $2 million when he took over to $40 million when he retired.
        Born in Portland, Ore., John Rutherford Everett received a bachelor of arts degree from Park College in 1942. He came from a long line of educators and Presbyterian ministers, and was ordained himself after earning a bachelor of divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary in 1944. He earned a master's degree in 1943 and a doctorate in 1944, both from Columbia University.
        Dr. Everett taught philosophy at Wesleyan University from 1945 to 1948 and headed the Philosophy Department at Columbia's School of General Studies for two years. He spent 10 years at Hollins. He was president of the Encyclopedia Britannica Press and executive vice president of Encylopedia Britannica Inc. from 1962 to 1964.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Elsie Leivesley; a stepson, Robert Howard, of Kansas City, Mo.; a daughter from his marriage to Elizabeth Sloan, Margaret Elizabeth Everett, of Manhattan, and a sister, also Margaret Elizabeth Everett, of Green Valley, Ariz.
      