
        Francis A. O'Neill Jr., who played a leading role in settling major airline and railroad strikes as a longtime member and chairman of the National Mediation Board, died Tuesday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla., where he was visiting. He was 83 years old and lived in Manasquan, N.J.
        He died of natural causes, the funeral home said.
        Mr. O'Neill's 24-year tenure on the board, from 1947 to 1971, was the longest in its history. First appointed by President Harry S. Truman in 1947, he was retained by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. Mr. O'Neill was a Republican, and the law bars the three-member board from having more than two members of the same party.
        Mr. O'Neill was chairman of the board at various times for a total of nine years, under an arrangement rotating the position among the members.
        Carrying out the agency's oversight of airline and railroad labor relations, he often raced across the country from one crisis to the next, coaxing negotiators into agreeing on new contracts. More than 90 percent of the disputes handled by the board were resolved without strikes during his membership. 'True Professional'
        "He was a true professional, apolitical completely and dedicated to settling disputes," said Theodore W. Kheel, a mediator who worked with Mr. O'Neill in a 10-day negotiating session at the White House in 1964 at the behest of President Johnson. The talks resolved issues that had troubled the railroads for years.
        Trusted by both management and union officials, Mr. O'Neill was usually easy-going and modest.
        "There's never been a mediator who lived who settled a dispute," he once said. "The parties always settle their own dispute. All you can do is suggest and keep using your imagination to come up with new alternatives."
        But he admitted occasionally losing patience, as when a Long Island Rail Road strike dragged on for nearly a month in 1960. "I told 'em where to get off," he would say later. "We had a settlement about an hour later." Another time he cajoled bargainers by complaining, "You people are really getting me to the point where I'm going to get sick any minute."
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. O'Neill grew up in Manhattan and graduated from Fordham University in 1929 and its law school in 1932. He practiced law with his father for six years, then worked four years for the New York State Labor Relations Board as a lawyer, a trial examiner and eventually a chief trial examiner.
        In World War II he served three years in the Navy as a gunnery officer on merchant ships and later as a labor relations officer. He returned to the state labor agency for a year, then was appointed to the mediation board.
        There are no immediate survivors. His first wife, the former Lillian Gerner, died in 1965, and his second, the former Ester McNellen, in 1985.
      