
        George S. Odiorne, developer of a management concept that became popular with businesses around the world, died on Sunday at Humana Hospital-Northside in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 71 years old and lived in St. Petersburg, where he retired three years ago.
        The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Odiorne drew on his experience as a production-line foreman and on his post-graduate business studies to develop his management-by-objectives approach, which holds that enterprises operate best when managers and employees have clearly understood goals and the plans to achieve them. Pithy Observations
        Mr. Odiorne was also a business school professor and dean, a consultant, a corporate manager and the author of 300 articles and 26 books. His best-known book, "Management Decisions by Objectives," was published in the mid-1960's by Pitman and was republished in 1986 by Prentice Hall.
        Mr. Odiorne was known for pithy observations. Of a task that lacked supervision, he once said, "This project had no head, just a neck that grew up and haired over." He also said employees could be categorized as stars, workhorses, problem children and deadwood, each requiring a distinct management approach.
        Born in Merrimac, Mass., Mr. Odiorne grew up in nearby Lowell. His first jobs were in a textile mill and writing for a newspaper for two cents per column inch. He went to work for the American Can Company in Jersey City, becoming a foreman, conducting time-and-motion studies and overseeing quality control.
        He also served three years in the Army during World War II, fighting in the Pacific and leaving the service with the rank of captain.
        After the war he graduated from Rutgers University. Studying at New York University for his master's and doctoral degrees in business administration, he encountered what was then an obscure academic phrase: "management by objectives." He soon began expanding on the idea and promoting it.
        In the 1950's he taught at Rutgers, then worked as the manager of the American Management Association's personnel division, developing courses on performance standards. He also served as a personnel manager for General Mills.
        He was a professor and director of the Industrial Relations Bureau at the University of Michigan from 1958 to 1968, the dean of the University of Utah School of Business Administration from 1968 to 1974, a business school professor and dean at the University of Massachusetts from 1974 to 1983 and a professor at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg from 1983 to 1989, when he retired.
        Surviving are his wife, the former M. Janet Hanna; a son, Robert H. Odiorne of Phoenix; two sisters, Ruth Lord of Concord, N.H., and Jeannette Merritt of Hampstead, N.H.; a brother, Raymond J. Odiorne of Vero Beach, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      