
        James I. Loeb, a former Ambassador to Peru and Guinea and the first national executive secretary of Americans for Democratic Action, died on Friday at the Alice Peck Day Extended Care Facility in Lebanon, N.H. He was 83 years old and was a resident of Hanover, N.H.
        He died of pneumonia, said Ralph Knight of the Knight Funeral Home in White River Junction, Vt. Amy Isaacs, national director of Americans for Democratic Action, a liberal public-policy organization, said Mr. Loeb had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
        Long active in politics, Mr. Loeb was the Kennedy Administration's Ambassador in Peru from 1961 until he was recalled to Washington in July 1962 as a gesture of disapproval against a military junta that seized control in Peru earlier that month.
        The military coup ousted a democratic Government and annulled general elections that had been held the previous month. It was a blow to President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress program of aid for Latin America. The charter of the alliance called for economic and social progress in a framework of developing democratic institutions.
        United States officials in Washington said that in accordance with policies personally approved by President Kennedy, Mr. Loeb repeatedly warned the military against mounting a coup and later carried out sanctions, including suspending diplomatic relations and cutting off economic aid.
        From 1963 to 1965, he was Ambassador to Guinea, in West Africa.
        Earlier, Ms. Isaacs said, Mr. Loeb was "instrumental in bringing together liberals, educators, theologians, labor leaders and businessmen" for the founding in 1941 of the Union for Democratic Action, which became Americans for Democratic Action in 1947. He was executive secretary of the union and then of its successor from 1947 to 1953.
        From 1953 to 1970, he was part owner and co-publisher of The Adirondac Daily Enterprise in Saranac Lake, N.Y.
        Mr. Loeb, who was born in Highland Park, Ill., received degrees from Dartmouth College and Northwestern University and then taught French and Spanish for some years.
        His marriage to the former Ellen Katz ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his second wife, Anna Frank Loeb, of Hanover; a son, Peter, of Boston; a daughter, Susan Loeb Luppino of Florence, Italy, and four grandchildren.
      