
        Peter Gray Meek, a retired executive for health and voluntary agencies, died Tuesday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Wyckoff, N.J.
        He died of heart failure, his doctor, Dr. Bradley Kaufman, said.
        Mr. Meek was appointed executive director of the National Health Council in New York in 1961 and retired from that position in 1973. The council, founded in 1920, acts as a clearinghouse for 118 health and hospital organizations. It left New York for Washington last September.
        A native of Bellefonte, Pa., Mr. Meek held bachelor's and master's degrees from Pennsylvania State University and did postgraduate work in public welfare administration at the Carnegie Institute of Technology. He went to work at the Bureau of Public Assistance of the Social Security Administration in 1938, making administrative studies of state and local public welfare programs throughout the country. Served in World War II
        In World War II, he served with the Navy in the South Pacific and held the rank of lieutenant when discharged. Rejoining the Bureau of Public Assistance, he worked on special programs for American refugees from war-torn countries, for shipwrecked merchant seamen and for enemy aliens until 1949.
        Mr. Meek then became assistant director of the Commission on Chronic Illness where he helped prepare a four-volume report, "Chronic Illness in the United States." He also was a visiting lecturer at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health during that period.
        From 1956 until he joined the National Health Council, Mr. Meek was the director of the New York City office and Northeast regional representative of the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults. He also was a past director of the National Council of Aging and fellow of the American Public Health Association.
        Mr. Meek is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Lucile Rasin; three daughters, Susan Gray Meek Landess of San Francisco, Katharine Rasin Meek Jones of Greeneville, Tenn., and Ellen Downing Meek Vaut of Rochester, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      