
        Jose Guerrero, a Spanish-born painter who worked for many years in the United States, died in Barcelona on Dec. 23. He was 77 years old.
        His death was caused by complications from multiple myeloma, a form of cancer, said his son, Jose Antonio Guerrero.
        Known for big, vibrantly colored paintings whose abstract imagery suggested landscape, primitive architecture and atmospheric events, Mr. Guerrero divided his time between the United States and Spain. In the 1950's and 60's, he had one-man shows at the innovative Betty Parsons Gallery and later at several other galleries in Manhattan. His work is in prominent American and foreign collections, including those of the Guggenheim, the Whitney and the Brooklyn museums in New York.
        Mr. Guerrero was born and grew up in Granada, in the south of Spain, and studied art there and then in Madrid and Paris. The painters Picasso, Miro and Paul Klee had a strong impact on him. In Paris he learned the technique of fresco to work with architects on postwar reconstruction projects, later winning a fellowship from the Graham Foundation of Chicago for such collaborations. Arriving in New York in 1950, he was inspired by the Abstract Expressionist movement then growing here and became friendly with Mark Rothko, Robert Motherwell, Ad Reinhardt and Franz Kline, among others.
        In 1954 James Johnson Sweeney, then director of the Guggenheim Museum, included Mr. Guerrero's work in a show of younger American painters. In the 1960's, challenging the Pop Art movement, Mr. Guerrero turned to a more constructivist form of expression, basing the structure of his paintings on what he described as "vertical thrusts or horizontal tensions and diagonal crisscrossings." He also produced portfolios of graphic work to accompany the poems of Stanley Kunitz, Jorge Guillen and others.
        Besides his son, who lives in New York, Mr. Guerrero is survived by his wife, the former Roxane Pollock, also of New York; a daughter, Elisabeth Garcia Guerrero Aubert of Barcelona; a brother, Eduardo Garcia Guerrero of Granada, and two grandchildren.
      