
        The Rev. John B. Sheerin, a Roman Catholic editor, columnist and pioneer in interfaith relations, died on Monday at St. Joseph's Nursing Home in Totowa, N.J., after a long illness. He was 85 years old.
        From 1948 to 1972, Father Sheerin was editor of The Catholic World, a monthly journal published by the Paulist Fathers, the religious order of priests that he had entered after receiving a law degree and embarking on a legal career.
        In 1957, he was one of two Catholic observers at a meeting on Christian unity in North America sponsored by the largely Protestant World Conference of Churches and National Council of Churches in the United States. In August 1962, he was one of the first two Catholics appointed by the Vatican as official observers at the World Council's Central Committee meetings.
        In the 1960's, Father Sheerin became a major interpreter of the church reforms initiated at the Second Vatican Council. He was a leading member of the panel of American bishops and experts that briefed the press in Rome during the 1962 and 1963 sessions of the council. He served as a theological adviser during the council's fourth and final session in 1965.  A Weekly Column
        The council, he said as its first session closed, signaled the end of "a knockdown, drag-out fight" that the church had conducted with Protestantism since the 16th century. As an editor and writer of a weekly column widely syndicated in Catholic diocesan newspapers, Father Sheerin urged unity among Christians and attacked religious traditions fostering anti-Semitism.
        He was also a supporter of civil rights efforts. In April 1960, he criticizied the idea that sit-ins in segregated places by black students were a passing episode, saying that they were "the opening of a long campaign" and that the demonstrators were "entitled to our sincere admiration."
        An outspoken opponent of the Vietnam war, Father Sheerin was among 18 religious leaders who announced in 1967 that they would risk fines or imprisonment to help young men resist or evade the draft if they opposed the war on the ground of conscience.
        A year later, he joined a group of 29 Protestant, Catholic and Jewish clergymen who issued a 6,000-word statement, supported by a volume of excerpts from news reports, that charged the United States military forces with committing numerous war crimes in Vietnam.  Strong Convictions
        In 1973, Father Sheerin said that "the American bishops have been very disappointing in their failure to take a stand" about the war, and he argued that the conscientious-objector status should be open to those morally opposed to specific wars as well as to total pacifists -- a position the bishops eventually adopted.
        Father Sheerin managed to express his strong convictions in a measured and conciliatory manner and never lost his close ties with many bishops and with the Vatican.
        He was born in Brooklyn and received a bachelor's degree from Fordham University in 1928 and a law degree from Fordham in 1930. After retiring from The Catholic World, he worked for the Catholic bishops' office for Catholic-Jewish relations in Washington.
        He is survived by two sisters, Muriel Sheerin and Eunice Skelly, both of Brooklyn.
      