
        Pietro di Donato, whose novel "Christ in Concrete" was acclaimed as an American classic when it was published in 1938, died on Sunday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 80 years old and lived in Setauket, L.I., for many years.
        He died of bone cancer, said Teresa Cersuola, a family friend.
        "Christ in Concrete" was hailed by critics in the United States and abroad as a metaphor for the immigrant experience in America. For Mr. di Donato, who worked as a bricklayer, the book was not so much a metaphor as the straightforward recounting of the life and times of his father, Geremio, also a bricklayer, who was killed in 1923 when a building collapsed, burying him in concrete.
        The book was published a decade after Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were executed in Massachusetts after a highly publicized murder trial that left many people convinced of their innocence. The resonances of discrimination in the Sacco-and-Vanzetti case and the conditions that led to the death of Mr. di Donato's father were not lost on the book's readers. And Pietro di Donato's power as a storyteller moved critics to hail him as an extraordinary talent.
        "Christ in Concrete," first published as a short story in Esquire magazine, became a Book-of-the-Month Club selection and remained on best-seller lists for months. Charles Poore, writing in The New York Times on Sept. 15, 1939, described the book as "eloquent" and "Italian to the core . . . by turns operatic, lyrical, ferocious and hilarious." Wandering Into Writing
        Mr. di Donato was born on April 3, 1911, in West Hoboken, N.J. His family had immigrated to the United States from Vasto, in the Abruzzi region of Italy. His father's death, and the death a few years later of his mother, Annunziata, meant that the burden of bringing up himself and 7 other children fell to Pietro when he was 12.
        Like his father before him, he became a bricklayer. When asked on one occasion where and how he had learned to write, Mr. di Donato said that during a strike in the building trades he had wandered into a library and discovered French and Russian novels. He was especially fond of Emile Zola. He said he remembered thinking: "This is where I belong. I can do this, too."
        The praise in the reviews for "Christ in Concrete" might have launched almost any author toward a lifetime in belles-lettres. But it did not work that way for Mr. di Donato. His literary output was modest, and reviews of his "Life of Mother Cabrini" (1960), "Three Circles of Life" (1960), "The Penitent" (1962) and "Naked Author" (1970) reflected critics' consensus that he never again achieved the heights of his first effort.
        When World War II began, he registered as a conscientious objector and was sent to a camp in Cooperstown, N.Y., where he worked as a forester and did some writing. He married Helen Dean in 1943 in a ceremony performed by New York City's Mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia.
        After the war, "Christ in Concrete" was made into a movie in Britain, starring Sam Wanamaker as Geremio and Lea Padovani was Annunziata. Titled "Give Us This Day," it won an award at the 1949 Venice Film Festival.
        "Christ in Concrete" is to be republished in the fall by Signet.
        Mr. di Donato is survived by two sons, Peter, of San Jose, Calif., and Richard, of Setauket, and a stepdaughter, Harriet Mull of Dunellen, Fla.
        Correction:  January 25, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Tuesday about the novelist Pietro di Donato misidentified one of his books. It is "Three Circles of Light," not "Three Circles of Life."
      