
        Robert Wakefield Armstrong, retired chairman of the Revlon subsidiary that introduced the company's perfumes and other cosmetics to the Soviet Union and markets in Asia, died on Wednesday at the Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 69 years old and lived in New Canaan.
        He died of cardiac arrest, a family member said.
        Mr. Armstrong was an executive with Revlon for about 30 years, retiring in 1987 as chairman of the Revlon Development Corporation. Previously, he had served as chairman and president of Revlon International.
        In a highly publicized joint venture, Mr. Armstrong introduced a concentrated cologne that was made from essential oils from a factory in Moscow and had American packaging. Called EPAS, an acronym for Experimental Project Apollo-Soyuz, its distribution on the international market coincided with the launching on July 15, 1975, of space missions from Cape Canaveral, Fla., and Baikonur in Kazakhstan.
        "We went into this not as a straight commercial venture," Mr. Armstrong said at the time. "We feel the mission is one of very great significance and will contribute to a working relationship and an attitude." Impossible Mission
        In Japan, he succeeded in what had been described as an impossible mission: overcoming bureaucratic restrictions. It had been Japanese practice not to allow products by companies that were soley owned by foreigners to be sold in its domestic market. But by 1963, Revlon products were being sold in Japan.
        Born in Elyria, Ohio, he graduated from Ohio State University and served as a lieutenant colonel in the United States Air Force during World War II. After the war, Mr. Armstrong developed his marketing techniques as executive assistant to the president of Dan River Mills in Danville, Va.
        He joined Revlon in 1953 as executive director of Revlon International. He left the company in 1956, for six years, to become president of Wertheimer Freres, the French owners of Chanel perfumes.
        Since his retirement, he had headed his own consulting firm in Westport, Conn., specializing in international trade and marketing
        He is survived by two daughters, Ann Armstrong-Cahill and Nancy Armstrong Brown, and four grandchildren, all of New Canaan.
      