
        James Frederick Bere, the chairman and chief executive of the billion-dollar Borg-Warner Corporation and a Chicago civic figure, died early yesterday at his home in Hinsdale, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 69 years old.
        A statement issued at the Chicago headquarters of Borg-Warner said he had died after a heart attack.
        Mr. Bere, a Chicago native and graduate of Northwestern University, started his career fresh out of college in 1946 with U.S. Industries Inc. While working, he earned an M.B.A. at Northwestern four years later. He was president of the company's Axelson Manufacturing Company when he left U.S. Industries for Borg-Warner in 1961.
        Mr. Bere (pronounced beh-REY) started out as president and general manager of the Borg & Beck subsidiary and was elected a director and president of the parent company in 1968. From 1972 to 1986, he was chief executive officer of Borg-Warner.
        Borg-Warner now has 75,000 employees worldwide and revenues of about $2.5 billion a year. Best known as a maker of automotive parts, it also provides protective services and guards.
        Mr. Bere became chairman of the board in 1975 and resumed his role as chief executive in 1987 when Borg-Warner was taken private in a leveraged buyout.
        In addition, Mr. Bere was a director of Abbott Laboratories, Ameritech Corporation, K Mart Corporation, Temple-Inland Inc., Time Warner Inc., and the Tribune Company of Chicago.
        He was co-chairman of a financial research and advisory committee that made fiscal recommendations to a succession of Chicago mayors. He also served in various capacities at the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry, the University of Chicago, the Salvation Army, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Northwestern's Graduate School of Management, among others.
        Mr. Bere is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Van Dellen; three sons, Robert P. of Midland, Mich., James Jr. of Neenah, Wis., and David L. of Danville, Calif.; two daughters, Lynn B. Stine and and Becky B. Sigfusson, both of Hinsdale; a sister, Marion Preston of St. Joseph, Mich.; and a brother, Lambert, of Palos Heights, Ill.
      