
        Thomas J. Mackell, who resigned as the Queens District Attorney in 1973 after he was indicted on charges of hindering prosecution in a $4.4 million get-rich-quick scheme, died yesterday at his son's home in Douglaston Manor, Queens. He was 77 years old and lived in Douglaston Manor.
        He died of stomach cancer, his son Terrence said.
        A jury found Mr. Mackell guilty in 1974, but the next year the conviction was reversed and dismissed on appeal.
        The indictment had been handed up by a special state grand jury investigating corruption in the city's criminal justice system. The investigation was under the supervision of the deputy Attorney General Maurice H. Nadjari, who said the scheme promised a return of 1 to 4 percent a week. 'I'm Going to Stay on the Job'
        Among those who had invested were Whitey Ford, the former Yankee pitcher, and at least nine people on Mr. Mackell's staff. The indictment also named Mr. Mackell's son-in-law, James D. Robertson, an assistant District Attorney, and Frank DiPaola, Mr. Mackell's former campaign finance chairman. They were cleared with Mr. Mackell.
        Mr. Mackell initially refused to step down from the District Attorney's job he had held for six years, saying, "I was elected by the people and I'm going to stay on the job." But 12 days after the indictment, he acknowledged that it had "destroyed my ability to function as a District Attorney." He told Gov. Nelson A. Rockfeller that he would resign. The Governor had already indicated that he was prepared to begin proceedings to remove Mr. Mackell.
        In overturning the convictions and throwing out the charges on the ground of insufficient evidence, the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court for the Second Judicial Department, which covers Queens, said that Mr. Nadjari "was guilty of constant and patent disregard of the basic rules of evidence." Mr. Mackell called the appeals decision "the end of the nightmare."
        Mr. Mackell, a tall man who looked like the former police officer that he was, joined a law firm after the indictment ended 20 years in politics. He had been a member of more fraternal and civic organizations than a voter can shake a ballot at, and he was known for raising his Irish tenor voice in song at their gatherings. "Just let Tom see a piano and two listeners and he's off on a song," a supporter said in 1961, when Mr. Mackell was running for City Council President. Entered Politics in 1954
        Born in New York, Mr. Mackell (his name rhymed with tackle) attended college when not on duty at his first job as a power maintainer in the subways. He earned a bachelor's degree from the City College of New York in 1938, and a law degree four years later from St. John's Law School, the same year he joined the Police Department. He was promoted to detective four years later and received an award in 1949 for capturing two armed robbers.
        He left the Police Department in 1952 to enter law practice. Two years later he got into politics, running in a tough State Senate primary fight that ended with charges of fraud and irregularities. The courts upheld his margin of 112 votes and he went on to win the general election. In Albany he sponsored legislation benefiting police officers and firefighters and was chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Interstate Cooperation.
        In addition to his son Terrence, he is survived by another son, Thomas J., of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      