
        Earl W. Kintner, a chairman of the Federal Trade Commission in the Eisenhower Administration and a longtime senior partner in the Washington law firm of Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn, died on Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Washington.
        He died after a long illness, said a spokesman for his firm.
        As chairman of the commission from 1959 to 1961, Mr. Kintner urged industry to regulate itself, but he also vigorously enforced antitrust regulations.
        During his first year in the job, the soft-spoken lawyer repeatedly called on the television industry to police itself with respect to false and misleading advertising and then warned that his agency would conduct a formal investigation if necessary. "Self-policing is no good unless there's a cop on the corner with a big stick, who's willing to use it," he said in an interview.
        Under his leadership, the agency issued a record number of complaints and orders in the 1960 fiscal year aimed at false advertising and other deceptive trade practices and at monopolistic activities. Born on Indiana Farm
        Born on a farm near Corydon, Ind., Mr. Kintner worked as a reporter and a short-order cook to support himself while attending DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind. He graduated from the Indiana University School of Law in 1938, practiced in Princeton, Ind., and served there as a prosecuting attorney.
        While in the Navy from 1944 to 1948, he was appointed Deputy United States Commissioner to the United Nations War Crimes Commission. After his discharge from the Navy, he joined the staff of the Federal Trade Commission and served as a trial lawyer, then adviser and general counsel before becoming chairman.
        In 1961, he joined Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn as a senior partner, and established and directed the firm's antitrust practice. He retired in December 1990 and then served as counsel to the firm.
        He was the author or co-author of 7 antitrust and trade regulation primers, 11 volumes on Federal antitrust legislative history and 9 volumes of a treatise on Federal antitrust law.
        He is survived by his wife, Valerie; a son, Christopher Earl, of Denver ; two chilrden from a previous marriage: Anna Victoria MacKenzie of Danbury, N.H., and Jonathan B. Monroe of Newport, R.I.; a half-sister, Alice Foster of Princeton, Ind.; a brother, William, of San Diego; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      