
        Doyle Northrup, a physicist who ran the secret United States system that detected the Soviet Union's first atomic bomb explosion and later advised the Geneva talks on controlling nuclear tests and weapons, died Dec. 15 at the Holmes Regional Nursing Center in Melbourne, Fla. He was 84 years old and lived in nearby Satellite Beach.
        Mr. Northrup died of natural causes, his wife said.
        His efforts in detecting the bomb won an award from President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Mr. Doyle also won citations from the Air Force, Navy and Defense Department for scientific work in World War II and bravery as a civilian at Pearl Harbor during the surprise attack by Japan.
        He was born in Washington State, graduated from Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., in 1928 and earned a master's degree in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. From 1933 to 1940, he worked for M.I.T., helping to build an advanced generator that produced a seven-million-volt lightning bolt. Witness to Attack
        In 1940, he joined the Naval Ordnance Laboratory and was assigned to demagnetize ships at Pearl Harbor to foil magnetic sea mines. When the Japanese attacked on Dec. 7, 1941, he watched from afar on his day off and at first thought he was seeing a training exercise. But after seeing the Japanese insignia on a plane, he raced to the base to help, and his automobile was hit by enemy fire on the way. Uninjured, he continued to the base to assist.
        Later in the war, he discovered a critical defect that had caused some American torpedoes to malfunction and fail to detonate.
        In 1948, he transferred to the Air Force. He working as technical director of its Technical Applications Center and its Special Weapons Squadron, doing research.
        United States officials suspected that the Soviets were developing the atomic bomb, so he was assigned to a top-secret project to test radioactivity in air samples from planes and monitor far-flung seismographs. In 1949, the system uncovered the first test explosion. He reported it to President Harry S. Truman, who made the announcement.
        Mr. Northrup was an important figure in the project, said David Jacobson, a Brandeis University professor who is preparing a book on American defense in that era. Time magazine once described him as the "Cloak and Geiger Man." Award From President
        In the 1950's, Mr. Northrup served as the scientific adviser to the American delegation at negotiations to ban nuclear testing and control weapons. In 1959, he was given the President's award for distinguished service at a ceremony also honoring the rocket scientist Wernher von Braun. Mr. Northhrup's wife accepted the award because he was in Geneva at the talks. He retired in 1975.
        Surviving is his wife, the former Sybil Louise Crosby.
      