
        A. J. Antoon, the stage director who won a Tony Award for "That Championship Season," died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of AIDS, said Lisa Juliano, his assistant on the long-running Off Broadway musical "Song of Singapore," which he directed.
        Over 20 years, Mr. Antoon directed both classics and new plays for Joseph Papp at the New York Shakespeare Festival. Working on and Off Broadway, he was acclaimed for his fanciful, imaginative touch, as in his Americanized 1972 version of "Much Ado About Nothing," which had Shakespeare's characters dancing by the light of the silvery moon.
        Alfred Joseph Antoon Jr. was born on Dec. 7, 1944, in Methuen, Mass., and began working in theater at Lawrence Central Catholic High School in LAwrence, Mass. After a year at Boston College, he transferred to the Shadowbrook Jesuit seminary in Lexington, Mass., intending to become a priest. Later, he enrolled at the Yale Graduate School of Drama. In his third year, he left Yale to work in professional theater, beginning with his own Story Theater adaptation of Chekhov stories. In a very brief time, he became known as one of the brightest young directors at the New York Shakespeare Festival. 2 Hits in a Year
        He began working for Papp at the Public Theater in 1971 with "Subject to Fits," written by Robert Montgomery, who had been a fellow student at Yale. The next year, at the age of 27, he had two major successes, with "That Championship Season," by Jason Miller, and "Much Ado About Nothing," which moved to Broadway after a summer run at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. His "Much Ado" was later presented on television by CBS.
        He went on to solidify his reputation for highly theatricalized productions. For Papp, he staged "Cymbeline," "Trelawney of the Wells," Strindberg's "Dance of Death" and Tina Howe's "Art of Dining"; he also began the producer's complete cycle of Shakespeare with a Brazilian-toned production of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." His last New York Shakespeare Festival production was a Wild West version of "The Taming of Shrew" in 1990, starring Morgan Freeman and Tracey Ullman in Central Park.
        On Broadway, he also staged the John Kander and Fred Ebb musical "The Rink," starring Liza Minnelli and Chita Rivera, and "The Good Doctor," by Neil Simon. When he died, he had several projects in the works, including his screenplay of "Snow White."
        His companion was Peter Perez.
        He is survived by a brother, Michael J. Antoon, and two sisters, Jessica M. Leavitt and Marsha A. Roy, all of Methuen.
      