
        Henry M. Stommel, a leading theoretician on ocean currents, died Friday at the age of 71 at the New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. His wife, Elizabeth Stommel, said he died of a heart attack after surgery for a liver tumor. He lived in Woods Hole, Mass.
        Although he never earned an advanced degree, Mr. Stommel was considered one of the most influential oceanographers of his time. He became known worldwide in the 1950's for his speculation on circulation in the Atlantic. He recognized the role of the earth's rotation in pushing the Gulf Stream westward along the coast of North America and also proposed that its northward flow must be balanced by a deep, southward flow beneath it. He proposed a global circulation in which surface water sinks in the far north, feeding the deep, south-flowing current, whereas water rises in the Antarctic, supplying a northward flow along the entire east coast of the Americas.
        Much of this theory has been confirmed.
        Henry Melson Stommel was born in Wilmington, Del., and graduated from Yale University in 1942 with a bachelor of science degree. After teaching mathematics and astronomy at Yale for two years, he became a research associate at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, leaving in 1960 to become professor of oceanography at Harvard University.
        In 1963 he joined the faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, remaining until 1978 when he returned to Woods Hole. Although he was retired, he continued his research there, and Mrs. Stommel said some of his latest findings would soon be published.
        Mr. Stommel received honorary doctorates from Yale, the University of Chicago and Gothenburg University in Sweden. Widely acclaimed as an authority on ocean currents, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and was a foreign member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. Among his awards was the National Medal of Science, which he received in 1989.
        Among his many books, popular and scientific, was one he wrote with his wife, "Volcano Weather: The Year Without a Summer," which was published in 1983 by Seven Seas Press and recounted the worldwide effects of a volcanic eruption in 1816.
        In addition to his wife he is survived by a daughter, Abigail Adams of North Falmouth, Mass., and two sons, Elijah Stommel of Hannover, N.H., and Matthew Stommel of Woods Hole.
      