
        Mike Frankovich, the producer of films like "Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice" and "The Shootist," died Wednesday in Los Angeles at the age of 82.
        He died of pneumonia and had Alzheimer's disease, family members said.
        Mr. Frankovich was born in Bisbee, Ariz., and grew up in Los Angeles. He was the adopted son of the comic actor Joe E. Brown.
        He attended the University of California at Los Angeles, where as quarterback of the football team in 1932 he was part of a 93-yard touchdown pass play that still stands as a U.C.L.A.  record.
        After a short stint in professional baseball with the Hollywood All Stars, Mr. Frankovich became a technical adviser on sports films, held low-level production jobs in the film industry and in the late 30's became a producer at Republic Pictures.
        After serving as a pilot in the Army Air Corps in the Far East and Europe in World War II, he began producing films in Europe and showed a flair for coaxing Hollywood stars to go there to make independent films.
        In 1955, Mr. Frankovich became managing director of Columbia Pictures in Britain. By the late 50's he was in charge of British and European production for the company, overseeing such films as "The Guns of Navarone," "Lawrence of Arabia" and "The Bridge on the River Kwai."
        In 1964 he moved back to Los Angeles as vice president in charge of production for Columbia, where he was responsible for films like "Cat Ballou," "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," "To Sir With Love," "In Cold Blood" and "A Man for All Seasons."
        In 1968, Mr. Frankovich became an independent producer at Columbia. His films included "Cactus Flower," "There's a Girl in My Soup," "Butterflies Are Free," "The Looking Glass War" and "Forty Carats."
        Mr. Frankovich was a member of the American Film Institute from its founding and was on its board and executive committee. He also was a trustee of the U.C.L.A. Foundation and the St. John's Hospital Health Center in Los Angeles, as well as Variety Clubs International, the children's charity.
        In the early 80's, as president of Los Angeles Coliseum Commission, he helped bring the Olympic Games and the Raiders football team to Los Angeles.
        In 1984 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences gave him its Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.  Mr. Frankovich is survived by his second wife, the British actress Binnie Barnes; his brother, Lee, of Reno, Nev.; a sister, Claire, of Los Angeles; two sons, Mike Jr. and Peter; a daughter, Michelle, and seven grandchildren.
      