
        Willard Ching, a noted interior designer of commercial buildings and a leader in professional societies in his industry, died Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of respiratory failure complicated by AIDS, said Charles Bell, a business partner and painter who was his companion for 22 years.
        Among the interiors Mr. Ching designed were New York City's police headquarters, Time magazine's executive offices, Chubb & Son's 85,000-square-foot office in Manhattan and the New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center. Many of his projects were featured in design publications.
        Mr. Ching had served as the national director of the Institute of Business Design and president of the National Council for Interior Design Qualification. He was also a member of the National Examiners Committee of the American Society of Interior Designers, vice president of the Governing Board of Contract Interior Design Standards and vice chairman of the National Legislative Coalition for Interior Design.
        He was also on the advisory boards of A&D Business and Design Source magazines, New York University's Real Estate Institute and Interior Designer for Licensing in New York. He served on the American Arbitration Association as a expert on interior design disputes.
        He was born in Honolulu and came to New York to study at Pratt Institute, where he graduated in 1964. He then began working for designers in New York and New Jersey, becoming a senior project designer at ISD and director of interior design at Kuhn, Drake & Hessberger.
        In 1978 he founded his own firm, Will Ching Planning and Design, based in SoHo, and was its president. He also taught part time at Pratt and the Real Estate Institute.
        Surviving are his mother, Katherine, and a sister, Janice Ching Yee, both of Honolulu, and four brothers, Norman and Clinton, both of Honolulu, Franklin of Los Gatos, Calif., and Wallace of Silver Spring, Md.
      