
        Clark Tippet, a choreographer and principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, died on Tuesday at the Labette County Medical Center in Parsons, Kan. He was 37 years old.
        He died of AIDS, said Kelly Fowler, his sister.
        Mr. Tippet stood out onstage for his strong dramatic presence and a witty sense of style and theatricality that made him believable in a wide range of ballets, from the demanding pyrotechnics of Prince Siegfried in "Swan Lake" to the second male lead's slippery fast-moving part in Twyla Tharp's "Push Comes to Shove" to the brooding High Brahman in "La Bayadere" to Carabosse, the evil fairy, in "The Sleeping Beauty." He was also a performer who could unobtrusively bring nuance and color to insignificant roles.
        He was considered one of the most promising ballet choreographers to emerge in the last decade. In 1988, writing of his "Bruch Violin Concerto No. 1," Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, called the work "downright terrific."  Inspiration From Friends and Music
        Mr. Tippet came to choreography relatively late in his career. He created his first ballet, "Enough Said," in 1986, 14 years after he made his debut as a corps dancer with Ballet Theater. His ballets, which included five choreographed for Ballet Theater, had the practicality and unassuming individuality of his dancing. His inspirations came, he said in an interview in 1988, from the lives of his friends, from admired pieces of music and from his interest in exploring the qualities and distinctive skills of the Ballet Theater dancers he admired.
        Mr. Tippet was born in Parsons and began his dance training at age 5. Six years later, he came to New York and enrolled at Thalia Mara's National Academy of Ballet. He was made a soloist at Ballet Theater in 1975 and was promoted to principal in 1976. Battling a drug problem, Mr. Tippet took a leave of absence from the company in 1978 but returned in 1982, dancing in ballets by Sir Kenneth MacMillan, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Antony Tudor, Jerome Robbins, Martine van Hamel, David Gordon and David Parsons.
        Mr. Tippet's works for Ballet Theater also included "S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A (The Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barbershop Quartet Singing in America)," "Rigaudon" and "Some Assembly Required." He also created ballets for the Pacific Northwest Ballet of Seattle and the Kansas City Ballet.
        In addition to his sister Kelly Fowler, of Strong City, Kan., he is survived by his parents, David C. and Virginia L. Tippet of Parsons; four brothers: Casey, of Parsons, David, of Houston, Tracy, of New York City, and Jon, of Dallas, and five other sister:, Christine Cooper of Clarksville, Tex.; Michele St. Clair of Parsons; Patti Nutt of Parsons; Janie, of Lawrence, Kan., and Marce Modica of Overland Park, Kan.
      