
        Mitchell D. Schweitzer, who retired in 1972 as a New York State Supreme Court Justice after more than 26 years on various benches in New York City courts, died on Monday at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. A former resident of Manhattan, Judge Schweitzer was 86 years old and lived in Wayside, N.J.
        His death was caused by congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Judge Schweitzer made his reputation with a keen legal mind leavened by a sense of humor. He also was known as one of the hardest working judges in New York, setting records for the swift disposition of cases. Probe Into Fitness
        He abruptly left the bench in January 1972 to halt a judicial inquiry into his fitness to preside at court. That investigation began after Federal and state official had started looking into his friendship with Nathan Voloshen, an accused swindler who pleaded guilty in 1970 to charges of conspiracy to defraud Federal agencies. Judge Schweitzer denied each allegation and none of them was proven. Earlier, in 1959, Judge Schweitzer was publicly criticized in some of the news media for refusing to make public a grand jury presentment regarding rigged television-quiz shows, a subject rife with publicity.
        "I've been called a thief and a crook and those things are never pleasant," he said in defending himself at the time. "But my first duty is to the law and to my conscience. I can be guided only by what the law tells me.
        "I would leave the bench rather than take the easy way out and, because of public pressure, do something contrary to the oath of office I have taken," he told his interviewer in 1959.
        On another occasion, the judge declared, "I will not trifle with the law and what I believe it to be."
        Justice Schweitzer, a native of Bridgeport, Conn., graduated from Columbia College and, in 1928, Columbia Law School. One of his classmates was Frank S. Hogan, the legendary Manhattan District Attorney. Vigor Through Naps
        Admitted to the New York Bar in 1928, Judge Schweitzer was in private practice until 1944 when he was elected to the Municipal Court bench with the endorsement of both the Democratic and the Liberal parties. He won election in 1954 as a Judge of the Court of General Sessions, which was merged into the Supreme Court of the State of New York in 1961.
        Friends ascribed his vigor as a judge to his habit of taking 30-minute naps each day at noon. He also had a talent for teasing reporters, alerting them to what he said was a great story. Smiling, he would confess that it was just a joke only when they were about to scurry off in hot pursuit. Even his critics were likely to concede that behind the cajolery a fine legal mind was running at full tilt.
        After leaving the bench, Mr. Schweitzer returned to the practice of law in Manhattan and was of counsel to various firms, advising them on matters of criminal law. He retired upon the death of his wife, the former Sylvia Brandt, in 1988 and moved to the Jersey shore.
        Mr. Schweitzer is survived by three sons, Dr. Daniel Schweitzer of Scarsdale, N.Y., Richard, of Wayside, N.J., and Leonard, of Long Branch, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      