
        Dr. Joseph Garrott Allen, an expert on blood who was a professor emeritus and a former chairman of the department of surgery at Stanford University's School of Medicine, died on Jan. 10 at his home on the Stanford campus. He was 79 years old.
        A statement at Stanford said he died of complications from pneumonmia.
        "Allen's professional life was dedicated to making the administration of blood plasma safe for patients," said a colleague, Dr. Harry A. Oberhelman, professor of surgery at Stanford. "Allen was the first to observe that the serum hepatitis virus in plasma could be inactivated by storing it at room temperature for six months."
        Dr. Allen, whose research with blood plasma began at the University of Chicago, frequently warned of the risk of infection from commercial blood supplies. He urged that incentives be created for a national all-volunteer blood-bank program and that legislation be written to require the labeling of volunteer and commercial blood supplies.
        Other areas in which he worked were AIDS, radiation sickness and the nutritional value of intravenous plasma. Served on Atom Bomb Project
        Dr. Allen, who was born and reared in Elkins, W. Va., attended Davis and Elkins College, of which his father was president, and graduated from Washington University in St. Louis. He earned his medical degree at Harvard University in 1938 and completed his residency at the University of Chicago.
        He then served as a staff physician on the Manhattan Project, the World War II effort to design and build the first atomic bombs. In 1946 a colleague, Dr. Louis Slotin, died of radiation exposure nine days after a laboratory accident at Los Alamos, N. M., where the atomic-weapons project was conducted. When Dr. Allen returned to Chicago in 1947 he won recognition when he reported that efforts to halt excessive bleeding from radiation exposure had been successful.
        By 1957, as a professor of surgery at the University of Chicago, he conceded that after years of research there was no cure for excessive radiation.
        Dr. Allen took over the Stanford department of surgery in 1959 and retired in 1977. He also wrote more than 100 scientific monographs and papers.
        Dr. Allen is survived by his wife, Kathryn; four sons, Barry Allen of Durham, N. C., Edward Allen of Logan, Utah, Lester Allen of La Grange, Ill., and Joseph Allen of Palo Alto, Calif.; a daughter, Nannette Alarcon of Madrid; two stepsons, Robert Shipley of Mountain View, Calif., and Grant Shipley of Muncie, Ind.; a stepdaughter, Susan Shipley of Albuquerque, N. M.; three brothers, Carter Allen of Waynesboro, Va., Charles Allen of Trenton, Mich., and Robert Allen of St. Albans, W. Va.; and 10 grandchildren.
      