
        W. John Kenney, a top official in the United States Navy during World War II and in the Marshall Plan program for postwar recovery overseas, died Thursday at his home in Washington.
        He was 87 years old and died of pneumonia, his family said.
        Serving under Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, Mr. Kenney rose to the post of Under Secretary of the Navy and later became the administrator of the Marshall Plan.
        His Government career began in 1936 when he was appointed chief of the oil and gas unit of the Securities and Exchange Commission. After practicing law for three years in Los Angeles, he returned to Washington in 1941 as a special assistant to the Under Secretary of the Navy, a post he later assumed.
        Under the Marshall Plan, President Truman named him director of the Economic Cooperation Mission to Britain. From 1950 to 1952 he became the operating chief of the entire Marshall Plan under its director, W. Averell Harriman.
        Returning to corporate law, he was a partner with Sullivan, Shea & Kenney in Washington until 1970 and then with Cox, Langford & Brown firm. In 1973 it merged with Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, where he remained a partner until his retirement in 1989.
        A Democrat, he was the party chairman for the District of Columbia and in 1956 worked on Mr. Harriman's Presidential candidacy.
        He helped found the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and was a trustee of the George C. Marshall Foundation and a director of Riggs National Bank. He was chairman of the District of Columbia chapter of the American Red Cross and the Community Chest fund drive in Washington. He also headed the Alibi Club, a men's club whose members included President Bush and and the former Chief Justice of the United States, Warren E. Burger.
        Born in Oklahoma, Mr. Kenney grew up there and in Washington, Los Angeles and Carmel, Calif. He graduated from Stanford University in 1926 and Harvard Law School in 1929 and practiced law in San Francisco until 1936.
        Surviving are two daughters, Elinor K. Farquhar of Washington and Priscilla K. Streator of London; two sons, David Kenney of Washington and John Kenney of Nancy, France; 15 grandchildren, and three great grandchildren. His wife, Elinor, died last year.
      