
        Theodore D. Small, a pioneer in training and placement programs that found jobs for tens of thousands of disabled people, died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn.
        He was 52 years old. The cause of death apparently was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Small's programs aided a wide variety of people, including the physically impaired, the homeless, unemployed war veterans and ex-convicts. "Everybody is employable at something," he once said. "The key is to find the match."
        The projects he set up often entailed the cooperation of businesses, nonprofit agencies and government. One of them, Utility Plastics, hires poor youths in East New York to recycle plastic waste into traffic cones. Another, Esteem, finds jobs for women who are beaten by their husbands so that the women do not feel economically trapped in abusive relationships.
        Binding Together is a copy shop and bindery at which recovering drug addicts are trained. Multitasking Systems hires people with AIDS to provide office services to other companies. Other programs enable handicapped people to work at home.
        Mr. Small began working with such programs when he directed Skill Upgrading, a training program in Cleveland, from 1968 to 1972. For six years after that, he was president of the Metropolitan Cleveland Jobs Council, a business and government partnership for disadvantaged people. From 1978 to 1984 he was president of the New York City Private Industry Council, which placed 18,500 people with 3,200 companies during his tenure.
        Since 1984 he had served as president of Small and Associates, the consulting firm he founded to help companies hire the disadvantaged. Among its clients were I.B.M., Marriott, Holiday Inns, U.S. Sprint and Morgan Guaranty Trust. He was chairman of the National Association of Private Industry Councils and the State Labor Department's Job Service Employers Committee for Manhattan.
        Mr. Small was born in Brooklyn. After graduating from Columbia College and Yale Law School, he served three years in the Peace Corps in Liberia.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara, and two sons, Ronald and Alan, all of Brooklyn; his mother, Frances, of Columbus, N.J., and a sister, Cheryl, of Manhattan.
      