
        Robert L. Hess, who assumed the presidency of Brooklyn College amid campus turmoil and decline in the 1970's and led the era of its resurgence as a top-ranked school, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        He died of lymphoma, a college spokesman said. The illness had limited his work since last June.
        W. Ann Reynolds, chancellor of the City University system, praised him as "a restless intellectual." She said he was "a first-rate, hands-on manager" who oversaw every aspect of the college, from its academic standards and library collection to the neatness of the buildings and grounds, the quality of cafeteria food and the opening of concerts and lectures to the community.
        Brooklyn College, founded in 1930, is a flagship of the City University. With a 26-acre campus in the Midwood and Flatbush sections, it has a faculty of nearly 1,000 and about 16,000 students. After Decade of Turmoil
        Dr. Hess, a historian turned administrator, was chosen to lead the college in 1979 after a decade of upheaval in which the faculty called for the ouster of his predecessor, John W. Kneller.
        Enrollment had swollen under the city's 1969 open admission policies, but it soon shrank when the fiscal crisis eliminated free tuition. The impact on Brooklyn College was drastic. Its student body grew to 35,400 by 1974, then dropped by half to 17,500 just two years later.
        "In 1979, Brooklyn College was a mess," Dr. Hess said in an interview, but added that it "has had a dramatic resurgence."
        Among the problems he faced were heightened racial and ethnic tensions. Open admissions fostered an influx of black, Hispanic and Asian students, but there was friction with Jewish students who had predominated at the college and continued to run many campus organizations.
        When he arrived for his job interview, Dr. Hess roamed the campus unannounced and said he was disturbed to see students clustered by race. Later, after taking office, he said he was pleased to see fewer cliques and more mingling.
        Under his leadership, the college adopted a core curriculum of 10 basic courses for all students, including such subjects as the classics, computers, mathematics and sciences, before they go on to specialize.
        A 1988 survey of 1,000 academic deans rated the college fifth in the nation in general education.
        "When I came here there was a terrible decay of the college administrative infrastructure -- things just weren't working very well," Dr. Hess said. But early in his tenure, he said "morale has risen, divisiveness has tended to disappear and the faculty has started to develop confidence that the place really does have a future." Football Team Sit-In
        His tenure was not all smooth. In 1988 the football team occupied his office in a two-day sit-in to protest its being disbanded that season because of cuts in state funds.
        Dr. Hess was born in Asbury Park, N.J. He earned his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees at Yale University, and also studied two years at the University of Rome. He received numerous grants and fellowships, including a Fulbright and a Guggenheim.
        He taught at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh in 1958, Mount Holyoke College from 1961 to 1964, Northwestern College in Iowa from 1964 to 1966 and the University of Illinois starting in 1966.
        He became the University of Illinois's associate dean of liberal arts and sciences in 1970 and associate vice chancellor for academic affairs in 1972.
        He went to Brooklyn College in 1979. At the time, he was also mentioned for the presidency of City College in Manhattan, and in 1990 he was one of three finalists for chancellor of City University, the post won by Dr. Reynolds.
        A specialist in African history, he wrote numerous scholarly articles and published several books on topics like 19th-century Africa, Ethiopia and Italian colonialism in Somalia. He continued his academics at Brooklyn, teaching a course in African, Asian and Latin American cultures.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Frances Aaron of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Laura, of Seattle; three sons, Carl, of Scarsdale, N.Y., Jonathan, of Philadelphia, and Roger of Denver, and two grandchildren.
      