
        Muhammad I. Kenyatta, a legal scholar and civil rights crusader who sued the Federal Government in 1969 for harassing him under an F.B.I. counterintelligence program, died in Buffalo on Friday. He was 47 years old.
        Mr. Kenyatta, a visiting professor at the University at Buffalo School of Law since 1988, had long been in ill health, said university officials, who added that the professor had suffered complications from diabetes and was hospitalized at the time of his death.
        Teaching civil rights law and history and constitutional law, he was drawn to issues that examined the "tensions between justice and democracy and between majority rule and minority rights and participation," said a university statement. Organizer for Head Start
        For much of his life, Mr. Kenyatta pressed for justice for black Americans as a man of letters and a man of placards and programs.
        In the mid to late 1960's, he was an organizer for the Head Start program for impoverished children. He also worked then for the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, a group that encouraged black participation in Southern politics. It was at this time that he received a letter found to have been forged by three F.B.I. agents working in the Cointelpro program that was aimed at disrupting and discrediting people considered dangerously radical.
        The letter threatened Mr. Kenyatta with warnings to stay away from Tougaloo College in Mississippi, where he had been a student. He left Mississippi, but later sued the Government for violating his constitutional right to free speech. A university spokesman, Arthur Page, said the suit finally came to trial in Jackson, Miss., in 1985, but the jury did not decide in his favor.
        Born Donald Brooks Jackson, Mr. Kenyatta was raised in Chester, Pa., and attended Harvard Divinity School, where he was a Merrill Fellow in 1973-74, and received his bachelor's degree from Williams College in 1981. He earned his degree three years later from Harvard Law School and was a Harvard fellow in public interest law in 1984-85. Pan African Project
        For years, Mr. Kenyatta was vice chairman of the Pan African Skills Project, an international education program including the United States, Tanzania and Ghana, and was a permanent representative to the United Nations nongovernmental organizations section.
        Recently he helped to organize the Western New York Chapter of Trans-Africa, a Washington-based lobbying group for African and Caribbean interests.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Kenyatta of Buffalo; a daughter, Luana, of Buffalo; two sons, Malcolm, of Philadelphia, and Muhammad Santiago, who lives in Virginia; his mother, Ernestine Bagley of Raleigh, N.C.; his grandmother, Carrie Jackson of Harrisburg, Pa., and three brothers and three sisters.
      