
        Mary Childs Black, an art historian, folk art expert, former museum director and writer, died yesterday at her home in Germantown, N.Y. She was 69 years old.
        She died of cancer, said M. J. Gladstone, a friend.
        Mrs. Black's greatest contribution to American folk art scholarship was her identification of the unsigned paintings of known American 18th- and 19th-century artists, attributions she based largely on social history.
        Mrs. Black organized more than 100 exhibitions seen in the United States, Britain or Israel. She made her most important discovery in the late 1960's, when she identified portraits attributed to four unidentified painters as the work of one man, Ammi Phillips, an itinerant 19th-century artist born in Connecticut. She disclosed her findings in 1969 in the book "Ammi Phillips, Portrait Painter, 1788-1865," which she wrote with Barbara and Lawrence Holdridge, folk art collectors. The biography was published when she was director of the Museum of American Folk Art in New York City, where she had organized the first major show of Phillips's work. A Start at Williamsburg
        Her museum career began in 1956 when she was hired as a research assistant at Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia. Two years later she became curator at the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Center at Williamsburg, and was named director in 1961.
        She left Williamsburg in 1964 to become the director of the Museum of American Folk Art. In 1969 she moved to the New-York Historical Society, where she remained as the curator of sculpture, painting and decorative arts until 1982, when she was abruptly dismissed by the director, Dr. James B. Bell.
        Mrs. Black protested the dismissal and was widely supported in the museum world. After a complaint was filed with Federal and state agencies contending that the society had violated sex- and age-discrimination laws, the society settled out of court, awarding Mrs. Black a sum equal to the back pay and vacation owed to her, and restoring her full pension. Dr. Bell resigned in 1988.
        At her death, Mrs. Black was working on an exhibition of Colonial American painters to be presented at the New-York Historical Society, said Barbara Knowles Debs, the director and president. A Childhood Interest
        Mrs. Black often said her interest in folk art stemmed from seeing Erastus Salisbury Field's 19th-century portraits of her ancestors in her grandparents' home when she was a child in Pittsfield, Mass., where she was born.
        Mrs. Black graduated from the Women's College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1943, did graduate work at Catholic University in Washington and earned a master's degree in art history at George Washington University in 1952.
        Her books include "Old New York in Early Photographs" (1973), "What Is American in American Art" (1971), "Erastus Salisbury Field" (1984) and "Gracie Mansion: A History of the New York Mayor's House" (1984). She was the co-author with Jean Lipman of "American Folk Painting" (1967).
        She is survived by a daughter, Merrill Black of New Durham, N.H., and a grandson.
      