
        Angela Carter, a novelist and short-story writer, died at her home in London on Sunday. She was 51 years old.
        She died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for Farrar, Straus & Giroux, her publisher in New York.
        Ms. Carter's work was widely praised in Britain, although less widely known in the United States. She was the author of more than a half-dozen macabre novels and a polemical study of the Marquis de Sade, "The Sadeian Woman."
        Her novels included "The Magic Toyshop," "Several Perceptions" and "Nights of the Circus." A number of her works were regarded as fairy tales with modern morals. Wrote for Radio and Films
        British critics often described Ms. Carter's writing style as "magic realism," but she believed the label was not quite accurate. In a 1986 interview with The New York Times, she said: "It's more realism than not. I can't define it until after it's done except that it is definitely fiction. It's more in the genre of Latin American writers like Garcia Marquez and Borges."
        Whatever the label, Ms. Carter's interest in fantasies, fairy tales and dreams was lifelong. She wrote radio scripts, short stories, children's books and screenplays, one of which became the 1984 film "The Company of Wolves." Her 1991 novel, "Wise Children," was about the illegitimate twin daughters of a celebrated Shakespearean actor.
        Ms. Carter was born in 1940 in Eastbourne. She began her writing career as a journalist on a South London weekly, The Croydon Advertiser. Later, she studied English literature at the University of Bristol, then began to write cultural criticism for New Society, The New Statesman and other publications.
        From 1976 to 1978, Ms. Carter was a fellow in creative writing at Sheffield University in England, and in 1980 and 1981 she was a visiting professor in the writing program at Brown University in Providence, R.I. She also taught at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
        She is survived by her husband, Mark Pearce, and a son, Alexander.
      