
        Gen. James H. Polk, a commander of the United States Army in Europe during the cold war, died Tuesday at the William Beaumont Army Medical Center in El Paso. He was 80 years old and lived in El Paso.
        He had been suffering from cancer and pneumonia, said a relative, Shirley Leavell.
        General Polk simultaneously served as commander of the United States Seventh Army in Germany, the mainstay of the American fighting force in Europe, when he retired in 1971. Earlier, at a time of severe tension over the divided city of Berlin, he was United States commandant in Berlin.
        As the Berlin commandant from January 1963 to September 1964, the general, an expert in armored warfare, personified American determination to stand up to Soviet bloc harassment and pressure in the city and its surroundings.
        In November 1963, after Soviet troops detained a United States Army convoy for 41 hours on the highway corridor between West Berlin and West Germany, he declared that the blockade was a deliberate attempt "to call the shots on Allied access to Berlin." He added, "We are determined that they shall not." Pledge to Defend City
        In July 1964, while East Germany built concrete and steel barriers along the border to stop East German refugees from using trucks to ram their way to freedom in West Berlin, the lanky, 6-foot-2 general gave a speech pledging that the United States and its allies would continue to defend West Berlin "just as long as necessary."
        After his tour in Berlin, General Polk was commander of the United States Corps at Frankfurt. From 1967 to 1971, he commanded the 185,000-member Seventh Army in Germany and the American forces in Europe from his headquarters in Heidelberg, West Germany.
        In those posts, General Polk emphasized training in small-unit combat tactics. He also worked to halt racial friction and deterioration in troop morale.
        In a statement soon after he retired, he challenged what he called 'influential voices" that wished to reduce American forces in Central Europe. He contended that the American Army must stay in Europe in considerable strength to deter Communists from starting a war.
        James Hilliard Polk was born Dec. 13, 1911, at Camp McGraw in the Philippines, the son of a United States Army officer, Col. Harding Polk, and the former Esther Fleming. He graduated from West Point in 1933 and was an armor commander in Europe in World War II. He was promoted to brigadier general in 1956 and rose to be a four-star general.
        He was decorated several times, receiving the Silver Star and other United States and French medals.
        General Polk is survived by his wife, the former Josephine Leavell, whom he married in 1936; a son, James H. Polk 3d of Santa Fe, N.M.; a daughter, Josephine Schwartz of El Paso; two brothers, Col. John F. Polk, who is retired from the Army and lives in Maryland, and Capt. Thomas H. Polk, who is retired from the Navy and lives in Florida, and five grandchildren.
      