
        James M. Carpenter, who developed the art department at Colby College and founded its art museum, drowned along with his daughter on Tuesday in an ocean swimming accident in Puerto Rico.
        Dr. Carpenter, 77 years old, was a resident of Waterville, Me. His daughter, Jane Poliquin, an art conservator, was 36 and lived in Cumberland Foreside, Me.
        Vacationing near Humacao on Puerto Rico's southeast coast, Mrs. Poliquin was swimming and began struggling against a rip current, relatives said. Her father went to help, but both were overcome.
        Dr. Carpenter was born in Glens Falls, N.Y. He received his bachelor's degree and doctorate from Harvard University and taught there for seven years.
        He was Colby's only art history professor when it recruited him in 1950. Over the next 31 years he developed a full department that now has a faculty of six and became its chairman. He retired in 1981. Founding of Museum
        In 1959 he founded Colby's art museum and was its first director, serving in the post for seven years. He was also instrumental in creating Colby's Bixler Art and Music Center, consisting of classrooms, the museum and an auditorium.
        In 1964 he organized "Maine and Its Artists," a group show exhibited at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and the Whitney Museum in Manhattan. Reviewing the exhibit in The New York Times, John Canaday called it "extraordinarily pleasant" and "a fresh, breezy, sunny show."
        Mrs. Poliquin was born in Waterville. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and studied art conservation at the University of Delaware. She worked as an art conservator at several museums, including the Brooklyn Museum, the Fogg and Peabody museums at Harvard and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. She also participated in archeological digs in Cyprus and Portugal.
        Dr. Carpenter is survived by his wife, Dorothy; two sons, William of Stockton Springs, Me., and Stephen of Portland, Me.; a daughter, Elizabeth Winters of Rye, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
        Mrs. Poliquin is also survived by her husband, Bruce, and a son, Samuel James.
      