
        Paul A. Freund, an authority on constitutional law and the Supreme Court who taught at Harvard Law School for 37 years, died yesterday at his home at Cambridge, Mass. He was 83 years old.
        Professor Freund, who retired in 1976 as Carl M. Loeb University Professor, died of cancer of the sinus, said Michael Chmura, a spokesman for the law school.
        A former dean of the law school, James Vorenberg, yesterday called Professor Freund "the dominant figure of his time in the field of constitutional law."
        In his teaching and writings and as an official of the United States Solicitor General's office in the 1930's and 1940's, Professor Chmura was a leading exponent of a relatively flexible interpretation of the Constitution in economic and social matters. He favored giving Congress and the states power to deal with the economic crisis of the 1930's and to take measures to prevent a recurrence of the Great Depression and to forestall other crises. Crucial Court Role Envisioned
        In Professor Freund's view, the judicial system, with the Supreme Court at its apex, had a crucial role to play. In his 1961 book "The Supreme Court of the United States" (World Publishing Company), he wrote that the role of the courts in maintaining a working federalism was one of "mediation between large principles and particular problems, of interposing intermediate principles" that are "more tentative, experimental and pragmatic."
        "The courts," he added, "are the substations that transform the high-tension charge of the philosophers into the reduced voltage of a serviceable current."
        Admirers of Professor Freund said yesterday that over the years his teachings and writings had made law students, at Harvard and elsewhere, take a more supple view of the Constitution. They said he had played an important role in the movement to read the Constitution more generously in economics, while giving deeper protection to individual liberties of speech and press and racial justice. Turned Down Kennedy Offer
        In the 1930's Professor Freund became staunch in his advocacy of reading the Constitution in such a way as to give Congress more freedom to experiment in measures to end the Depression and to provide what later came to be called a safety net against economic and other problems. While he was in the Solicitor General's office, from 1935 to 1939 and again from 1942 to 1946, he argued, or otherwise assisted in, court cases that tested such matters.
        Three decades later, Professor Freund figured as a potential appointee as Solicitor General under President John F. Kennedy.
        But as Professor Freund later recalled to friends, when Kennedy offered the position to him he turned it down on the ground that he wanted to continue working on a history of the Supreme Court, of which he was the general editor. To that the President replied: "I'm sorry. I hoped you would prefer making history to writing it." Considered for High Court
        Then, early in 1962, Kennedy considered naming Professor Freund to a vacant seat on the Supreme Court, but chose Deputy Attorney General Byron R. White for the seat. And when another Supreme Court vacancy arose later that year, the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote in his 1965 book "A Thousand Days," Kennedy "inclined at first toward Freund," but eventually chose Arthur Goldberg.
        Paul Abraham Freund was born Feb. 16, 1908, in St. Louis, the son of Charles Freund and the former Hulda Arenson. He earned a bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1928, a bachelor of laws degree from Harvard in 1931 -- serving as president of the editorial board of the Harvard Law Review -- and a doctorate in law, also from Harvard, in 1932.
        In 1932 and 1933 he was a law clerk to Justice Louis Brandeis. He then was an official of the Treasury Department and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation from 1933 to 1935. Three Endowed Chairs
        When he joined the Harvard Law School faculty in 1939 it was first as a lecturer specializing in conflict of laws as well as in constitutional law. He became a professor of law in 1940 and then held three endowed chairs in succession: he was Charles Stebbins Fairchild Professor, beginning in 1950; Royall Professor of Law, beginning in 1957, and Carl M. Loeb University Professor, beginning in 1958.
        His other writings included the books "On Law and Justice" (Harvard University Press) and "On Understanding the Supreme Court" (Little, Brown).
        He was the editor of "Experimentation with Human Subjects" (George Braziller) and co-editor of "Cases on Constitutional Law" (Little, Brown). He was for some years the editor-in-chief of the multivolume "History of the Supreme Court," of which, Mr. Chmura said, additional volumes are planned.
        Professor Freund was a fellow and past president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        There are no immediate family survivors.
      