
        Theodor Herzl Gaster, a scholar of comparative religion whose popular works made the myths of the ancient world accessible to large audiences, died on Monday in Osteopathic Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85 years old and lived in Philadelphia.
        Hospital officials said he died of heart failure.
        Dr. Gaster was the chairman of the religion department at Barnard College from 1968 to 1972 and taught there and at Columbia University, Fairleigh Dickinson University, the University of Florida in Gainesville and at Dropsie College in Philadelphia during an academic career that spanned five decades.
        Like Joseph Campbell, Dr. Gaster sought to recover the myths and fables of the early Hittites, Canaanites, Hebrews, Greeks and Romans. His major goal was to understand the stories in the context of the time they were created, said one of his former students, Joseph R. Armenti.
        "Both he and Campbell tried to bring the myth to life," said Dr. Armenti, who received his Ph.D. under Dr. Gaster and now practices law in Philadelphia. "Campbell saw it as a story in which the modern-day reader might gain some insight, but Gaster saw it as a testament to a different mindset. He questioned whether it was possible to transform it to today. 'That world is gone,' he used to say." Worked on Dead Sea Scrolls
        Dr. Gaster worked with the original team of translators of the Dead Sea Scrolls, which were discovered in the late 1940's. His book "Dead Sea Scriptures" sold over 200,000 copies. Among his other popular works were "Oldest Stories in the World," "The New Golden Bough," "Thespis," "Myth, Legend and Custom in the Old Testament" and "The Holy and the Profane: Evolution of Jewish Folkways."
        When he was born in London in 1906, his father, Moses Gaster, the Chief Rabbi of the Sephardic Jews, named him after his friend, Theodor Herzl, the founder of Zionism. When he was a youth, his father went blind, and the boy was responsible for reading books out loud to keep his father abreast of scholarship. Dr. Gaster later said this experienced heightened his interest in language, scholarship and mythology.
        He studied Greek, Latin and archeology at the University of London and received his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1943. He was said to be literate in 29 languages and dialects.
        When he turned to teaching, many students found him intimidating; he was quick to challenge the truth of the stories that many of his students had learned in church or synagogue. And he was famous for yelling "Go away!" in a raspy voice when a student timidly knocked on his office door. His manner often did not sit well with academic committees, many of which rejected his applications for tenure. 'Old-Fashioned Scholar'
        But students and colleagues who managed to get close to him said Dr. Gaster was generous with his time and knowledge. "He was an old-fashioned scholar," said David Marcus, associate professor of Bible at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan. "He was able to amass cross-cultural parallels on whatever he was working on, and he had the linguistic training to look at the sources. He would spend hours in the library digging up arcane facts."
        Dr. Gaster received two Guggenheim Fellowships and two Fullbright Professorships, one in Rome and the other in Melbourne, Australia. He also served as the chief of the Hebraic section of the Library of Congress from 1944 to 1948. In 1959 and in 1963, he was the Annual Guest Professor of Semitic Studies at the University of Leeds in England. He was also visiting professor of religion at Yale from 1972 to 1974, and of Judaic studies at City College of New York from 1974 to 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Lotta, and a daughter, Corinna, both of Gainesville, Fla.
      