
        John deLaittre, a retired bank president, Federal regulator and spokesman for the banking and mortgage industry, died Tuesday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis.
        He was 84 years old and lived in Minneapolis. He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. deLaittre had been president of the local Farmers and Mechanics Savings Bank and president of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks. For 20 years he was the executive vice president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.
        He also served four years on the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, overseeing 4,200 federally chartered savings and loan associations. A Republican, he was appointed by President John F. Kennedy.
        Born on Nicollet Island, Minn., Mr. deLaittre was the son of a Minneapolis City Council president and grandson of a Mayor. His forebears were in the lumbering business and banking. After graduating from Harvard College in 1929 and Harvard Law School in 1933, he practiced law seven years before joining the bank. He rose to president in 1957 and left in 1962 to serve on the Federal board.
        In Minneapolis he was a president of the Legal Aid Society, United Hospital Fund, United Fund, Pillsbury Settlement House and Minnesota Historical Society. He also served on the boards of the Minneapolis Foundation, the Minneapolis Society of Fine Arts, the Walker Arts Center and Lakewood Cemetery.
        An outdoorsman and environmentalist, he joined a 1927 expedition to the last unexplored ice regions of the Canadian Rocky Mountains, scaling 12,000-foot peaks for topographical and geological surveys. He returned 50 years later to observe that one glacier had moved 2,550 feet.
        His first wife, Carol, is deceased, and his second marriage, to Lee Witte, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Delores; two daughters by his first marriage, Corinne Browne of Woodstock, N.Y., and Lila Walton of Cambridgeshire, England; two sisters, Eleanor MacMillan of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Rosamond Kelland of Ojai, Calif., and nine grandchildren.
      