
        Lawrence B. Hilford, a pioneer in the videocassette industry, who founded the Orion Home Entertainment Corporation, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old.
        He died after a long battle with lymphoma, his family said.
        Mr. Hilford retired last year as chairman and chief executive of Orion Home Entertainment, which markets the movie videos of Orion Pictures. The company's movies include "Dances With Wolves" and "The Silence of the Lambs."
        As founder and president of the Cartridge Rental Network in the early 1970's, Mr. Hilford was among those who early on recognized the entertainment potential of mass-marketing videocassette recordings.
        In January of 1983, he was named president and chief executive officer of CBS/Fox Video, which during his tenure became the leading video cassette distributor in the country, marketing such video hits as the "Star Wars" trilogy. He left CBS/Fox Video in 1985.  Headed Consulting Concern
        Before joining CBS/Fox, Mr. Hilford had headed his own management consulting concern, spending much of his time supervising Rainbow Programming Services of Long Island. He had also served as senior vice president of Columbia Pictures Industries in the early 1980's.
        From 1973 to 1977, Mr. Hilford was executive vice president and director of Viacom International Inc., which under his direction started the Showtime pay channel.
        Mr. Hilford earned a B.A. degree from Yale and an M.B.A. from Harvard.
        Mr. Hilford was also a sponsor a group of children in the I Have a Dream Foundation. The program, founded by the philanthropist Eugene Lang, encourages children in disadvantaged neighborhoods to continue their education by paying for their college tuition, if they manage to graduate from high school. Mr. Hilford's wife, the ABC News correspondent Lynn Sherr, said her husband had committed to financing the college tuition of about 30 children, who are expected to graduate from high school in 1995.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hilford is survived by three sons: Jeffrey, Andrew and James, all of Manhattan.
      