
        William A. Arrowsmith, a scholar and translator of the classics and modern literature who became a widely quoted critic of American higher education, died on Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 67 years old.
        He died apparently of heart failure, an assistant said.
        Dr. Arrowsmith gained his widest audience with his attacks on graduate education in the humanities in the 1960's. He blamed "the hideous jungle of academic bureaucracy" for making the humanities irrelevant to modern life and sacrificing education to trivial research, "the cult of the fact" and career training.
        In the keynote address to the American Council on Education in 1966, he accused educators of creating a "vacuum of leadership." The 1,400 delegates, which included university presidents, deans and trustees, applauded. That same year he wrote an article in Harper's entitled "The Shame of the Graduate Schools." Translated Aristophanes
        Against the backdrop of campus ferment over the Vietnam War and racism, he called for the creation of "universities of the public interest" to develop a moral compass to address social issues.
        He served on a National Endowment for the Humanities panel that issued a report in 1984 voicing similar views. He was also on the board of the American Association for Higher Education and the International Council on the Future of the University.
        Among the classics he translated into English were dramas by Euripides and Aristophanes. He was the general editor of the 33-volume "The Greek Tragedy in New Translations" (Oxford, 1973) and of Nietzsche's "Unmodern Observations" (Yale, 1989).
        The modern works he translated included "The Storm and Other Things" (Norton, 1985) by Eugenio Montale, the Nobel laureate Italian poet; "Hard Labor" (Grossman, 1976) by Cesare Pavese, and "Six Modern Italian Novellas" (Pocket Books, 1964). The New York Times said that his "fine, precise English keeps more of Montale's crackling energy than would seem possible," and that his Pavese translation had "flashes of brilliant poetry."
        As a critic, his subjects ranged from the classics to the films of Michelangelo Antonioni, for whom he translated a book. Prolific in journals, he was a founding editor of The Hudson Review, The Chimera and Arion, and an editor of Delos, Mosaic, American Poetry Review and Pequod.
        His two longest teaching tenures were 12 years at the University of Texas at Austin, where he was chairman of the classics department, and 11 years at Boston University. He also taught at Princeton, Wesleyan, the University of California at Riverside, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Yale, Johns Hopkins, Georgetown, Emory and New York University.
        Born in Orange, N.J., he grew up in Wellesley, Mass. He received a bachelor's degree and a doctorate at Princeton University and a bachelor's and master's at Oxford University in England. He was a Rhodes Scholar and received Wilson, Guggenheim and Rockefeller fellowships.
        His companion for the last several years was Marianne Meyer. His marriage to Jean Reiser ended in divorce in 1980. Surviving are two daughters, Beth, of Colorado Springs, and Nancy, of Gfohl, Austria, and a sister, Roberta Mills of Middletown, N.Y.
      