
        The Rev. Dr. John Sutherland Bonnell, who gained a national reputation as a preacher in his 26 years as pastor of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York City, died at his home in Roseburg, Ore., on Sunday. He was 99 years old.
        He died of natural causes, said his son-in-law, the Rev. James G. Emerson Jr. of San Francisco.
        Dr. Bonnell occupied the pulpit of the Manhattan church, sometimes called the "cathedral of Presbyterianism," from 1935 to 1962. His Sunday sermons were regularly reported in the New York newpapers. And starting in 1943 he reached three million radio listeners with weekly talks on the ABC network. He was also one of the first religious leaders to provide inspirational messages through a "dial-a-prayer" telephone number.
        Dr. Bonnell, the son of a supervisor of a hospital for the mentally ill on Prince Edward Island in Canada, was a pioneer in pastoral counseling. In a clinic that he established at his Manhattan church, he provided a blend of psychological and spiritual guidance, and through teaching and several books he encouraged religious leaders to avail themselves of modern psychological knowledge and skills. Reply to McCarthy Aide
        He was one of three leaders of the National Conference of Christians and Jews who sent a public telegram to President Dwight D. Eisenhower in July 1953 to protest accusations by an assistant to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy that Protestant clergymen in the United States were a major source of supporters for "the Communist apparatus."
        In a reply, Eisenhower said such accusations "betray contempt for the principles of freedom and decency." The statement marked a turn from indulgence to opposition in the Eisenhower Administration's attitude toward the Republican Senator from Wisconsin.
        Dr. Bonnell, a moderate theologically, was an ardent supporter of the Rev. Billy Graham's first New York "crusade" in 1957. In 1960 Dr. Bonnell urged churches to speak out on social and economic issues as well as on salvation. But in 1966, when he came out of retirement to serve for three years as president of New York Theological Seminary, he also warned against "go-go" theologies that emphasized social and political causes at the expense of personal evangelism
        Born on Jan. 10, 1893, in Dover, Prince Edward Island, he enlisted in the Canadian army in World War I, was wounded twice in Europe and was sent home after suffering gas poisoning. He received degrees from Dalhousie University and Pine Hill Divinity Hall in Nova Scotia. He was ordained in 1922 and served in New Brunswick and Winnipeg, Manitoba, before being invited to Fifth Avenue Presbyterian. In 1923 he married Bessie Louise Carruthers. She died in 1976
        He is survived by a son, the Rev. George Carruthers Bonnell of North Plainfield, N.J.; three daughters, Dr. Catherine Cameron of LaVerne, Calif., Elizabeth McCuaig Newton of Prescott, Ontario, and Dr. Margaret Bonnell Emerson of San Francisco; 11 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      