
        Dr. Nahman Avigad, an eminent Israeli archeologist who led excavation of the vestiges of the workaday Jerusalem that the Romans razed in A.D. 70 together with the Second Temple, died on Jan. 28 in Jerusalem. He was 86 years old.
        His death was reported in New York by American Friends of the Hebrew University.
        A professor of archeology at Hebrew University, Dr. Avigad was contemplating retirement when he was invited in 1969 to undertake what became his crowning achievement: finding the Herodian "Upper City" in the Jewish quarter of the Old City. Archeologists suggested the possibility of finding such a site after surveying the ruins of the 1967 war that brought East Jerusalem under Israeli control.
        Overcoming his initial hesitation, Dr. Avigad led the dig for 14 years. The tedium of sifting debris, relieved by scholarly detective work, produced physical evidence of how people lived and worked and why their city had died so suddenly.
        Within months Dr. Avigad and his team found what was believed to be the earliest depiction of the menorah that once burned in the Second Temple, cut into a wall plastered 2,200 years ago. The next big find was the remnants of a building destroyed when Titus, the future Emperor, put down a series of Jewish revolts against Roman rule.
        "We have never had evidence of the destruction before," Dr. Avigad noted. "Here we see the fire for the first time; it recalls the sudden devastation of Pompeii."
        Two rooms that apparently had served as workshops yielded stone jars, weights and measuring cups and mortars and pestles.
        In the years that followed, Dr. Avigad laid bare a neighborhood for the aristocracy and temple priests. There were villas of Pompeiian splendor and traces of a wealthy community edging toward the Western Hill during the Judean monarchy. And there were mementoes of the day when the Romans smashed through the city's last defenses.
        His crew also unearthed remains of the "broad wall," twice mentioned in the Book of Nehemiah. Built to restore Jerusalem's fortifications after the Jews returned from Babylonian exile, it remains an 80-foot stretch of wall 23 feet thick, rising from bedrock west of the Temple Mount.
        Guided tours of the site began in 1983. Trained in Czechoslovakia
        Dr. Avigad was born in 1905 in Zawalow, a town in what is today the western region of Ukraine, and trained as an architect in what is now Brno, Czechoslovakia. He emigrated to Palestine in 1926 and soon went to work for the Hebrew University's Department of Archeology, then in its infancy,
        He began research on Biblical archeology and earned a doctorate in 1952 with a dissertation on the funerary monuments of the Kidron Valley in Jerusalem. He joined the teaching staff of Hebrew University in 1951 and retired in 1973, having served as department chairman since 1958.
        One of his first major projects brought to light a tomb on the road to Nazareth. It was thought to be the ornate family crypt of Judah the Prince, the rabbi who compiled the basic code of Jewish oral law known as the Mishnah early in the third century.
        Dr. Avigad then helped prepare excavation of the mountaintop complex built by Herod the Great at Masada, more than a hundred years before the Zealots made it their last refuge in the uprising against Rome. Identified Dead Sea Scroll
        In 1956, he and a colleague identified and made public the last of seven 2,000-year-old scrolls, the Dead Sea scrolls, which were found in 1947 in a cave in the Judean desert. The seventh scroll tells of Abraham's sojourn in Egypt and the beauty of Sarah, his wife.
        Digging in the Old City also threw light on its Christian and Muslim past. Dr. Avigad was able to identify the remains of the Byzantine Nea Church at the edge of the Jewish quarter of today, and he uncovered and partly restored a 70-foot-wide way built in the fifth century between the Holy Sepulcher Church and the Nea.
        Dr. Avigad's scholarly publications touched on many aspects of archeology, especially Hebrew seals. Among his major works was "Discovering Jerusalem," which appeared in English in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Shulamit Levin, and a son, Gad.
      