
        Leonard N. Cohen, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a former Deputy Borough President of Manhattan, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived all his life in the same Upper West Side neighborhood.
        He died of a heart attack, said Judge Emily J. Goodman of New York County Civil Court, a friend of the family.
        An acting justice of the New York State Supreme Court until his retirement last year, he continued working in arbitration and mediation and had expected to serve as a judicial hearing officer in April. Loft Tenants Protected
        Among Justice Cohen's major rulings was a 1981 landmark decision concerning lofts converted from industrial uses. He ruled that tenants of any loft with three living units should have the same protection against eviction as those in other residential buildings.
        In a much-publicized case in 1987, Justice Cohen barred the city from transferring a homeless Vietnamese woman against her will to a state psychiatric ward for long-term care. He ordered that she be placed in a community residence or a supervised single-room occupancy hotel for the mentally ill, saying she could get better care there.
        In a 1989 decision, Justice Cohen struck down a regulation imposed by Mayor Edward I. Koch requiring contractors to hire "economically disadvantaged" trainees for city projects, noting that, notwithstanding the Mayor's good intentions, Mr. Koch did not have the power to issue the regulation.
        As Deputy Borough President, Mr. Cohen fought real estate deals he felt evaded "the protective laws of rent control." In a letter to The New York Times in 1971 he wrote: "Tenants, as consumers of living space, have rights, which have too long been neglected in the courts, by the legal profession and in the legislative halls across the nation." Early Wagner Supporter
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Cohen graduated from City College and received his law degree from Columbia Law School in 1949.
        He began his political career in 1948 as part of a group that organized the Fair Deal Democrats in 1949 in support of Robert F. Wagner who was running for Manhattan Borough President against Hugo Rogers, a Tammany boss. Mr. Cohen, himself, was endorsed as a Reform Democratic district leader by Senator Herbert H. Lehman and Eleanor Roosevelt.
        In 1955, Mr. Cohen became a legal secretary to Supreme Court Justice Jacob Markowitz, but resigned in 1960 -- after he had called for the ouster of Carmine G. De Sapio, a friend of Mr. Markowitz', as Democratic county chairman.
        Later Mr. Cohen served as General Counsel and Deputy Commissioner of the city Department of Marine and Aviation. He was appointed Deputy Borough President of Manhattan in 1965 by Borough President Constance Baker Motley. From 1966 to 1974, he served as deputy to Borough President Percy E. Sutton.
        He is survived by two nieces, Jacqueline E. Hein of Los Angeles and Beverly Cohen of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister-in-law, Odette Cohen of Los Angeles.
      