
        Merton Y. Koplin, the award-winning producer of some of television's most popular and critically acclaimed programs and a central figure in the scandal over rigged quiz shows, died on Saturday at University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and a resident of Manhattan.
        His family said he died of natural causes, but would not specify the illness.
        In his versatile career, he acted in, wrote, directed or produced thousands of network radio shows and hundreds of television shows. They ranged from comedy and children's programs to dramas and documentaries.
        His most honored work was co-producing the 19-part "Walk Through the 20th Century With Bill Moyers" in 1984, which won both Emmy and Peabody Awards. He also co-produced Mr. Moyers' 17-part "Creativity" series in 1982, which also won Emmy.
        An earlier peak in Mr. Merton's career came in the late 1950's when he produced two of the highest-rated shows in television history, "The $64,000 Question" and its spinoff, "The $64,000 Challenge." But fame and success evaporated amid charges that those and other quiz programs were fixed.
        Called before a Congressional committee in 1959, Mr. Koplin openly admitted he had manipulated the contestants and quiz questions to affect the outcome of winners and losers.
        In a turning point in the investigation, he was the first to blame the rigging on the sponsor, the Revlon cosmetics company. He described weekly meetings at Revlon that were led by Martin Revson, who had been the company's vice president and whose brother Charles was president.
        Mr. Koplin said Revlon advertising representatives pressured the producers to raise audience ratings by instilling more drama, forcing out unappealing contestants and keeping popular ones winning. 'I Was Horrified'
        "They expressed opinions, and we did our best to carry out their wishes," he testified. He recalled one memorandum specifying who should win and lose on the next show. "My reaction was one of horror," he testified. "I was horrified when I saw the memo."
        Revlon and the Revsons acknowledged making suggestions to improve the show but adamantly denied any intention of rigging and any knowledge it was taking place.
        Some shows coached favored contestants by giving them questions and answers in advance. Mr. Koplin said he was more subtle. By screening his contestants, he learned enough about their expertise to pose questions he knew they could answer. One contestant, the band leader Xavier Cugat, said Mr. Koplin gave him questions and answers in advance, but Mr. Koplin denied it.
        No legal action was taken against Mr. Koplin, and some praised his candor. Others who were caught lying were prosecuted for perjury. Still, the episode put a crimp in his career that took time to recover from. Got a Start in the Army
        Mr. Koplin was born in Milwaukee and graduated from the University of Wisconsin. He got his start in radio in the United States Army in World War II, on an entertainment and news show for the troops.
        After the war he did a stint as a disk jockey, on "Mert's Record Adventures" on Mutual Radio. Later he produced and acted in the "True Detective" mysteries, worked with the host Bill Cullen on the "Walk a Mile" quiz show and produced "Monitor," NBC Radio's weekend news and feature show.
        On television he was the executive producer of Westinghouse's "P.M." with Mike Wallace, as host; the show was considered the prototype for the late-night talk and comedy format.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Janice Mattson; a son, Anthony, of Manhattan, and daughter, Nancy, of Los Angeles.
      