
        William Schuman, a composer whose distinctly American style won two Pulitzer Prizes and guided him as the founding president of Lincoln Center and the president of the Juilliard School, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
        He died after hip surgery, his family said.
        Critically acclaimed for his craftsmanship, Mr. Schuman incorporated American jazz and folk traditions into his works during a musical career that spanned more than 60 years. As an educator and administrator, he championed American music, composers and performers.
        Among his varied music creations were 10 symphonies; five ballet scores; piano, violin, viola and cello concertos; four string quartets; numerous works for chorus; band scores and operas.
        Although it was a secular cantata, "A Free Song," that won Mr. Schuman his first Pulitzer Prize in music, in 1943, his symphonic works are considered his most important accomplishment. He won a second Pulitzer in 1985 for both his composition and his work as an educator and administrator. A Log of Composing Time
        Composition was his first love, and he never allowed his other duties to interfere. He said the "continuum in my life has always been composition."
        "I always loved education and administration," he said, adding that "the trick was to compose before I went to work." Even in his busiest times at Lincoln Center, he composed a minimum of 600 hours a year, keeping track with a detailed diary.
        "My music has changed over the years," he said in 1980. "I no longer work with key centers, but the music is always melodic and has a sense of line. My music can always be
        sung
        . And I have never written a note in my life that was not deeply felt."
        Mr. Schuman began as a musical conservative, writing in a style deliberately evocative of American images. His harmonic language grew increasingly knotty, incorporating dissonance and polytonality, but his idiom remained uniquely his own.
        In their 1954 biography of the composer, Vincent Persichetti and Flora Reta Schreiber observed that Mr. Schuman's music "gets under the notes and in the bloodstream."
        "It breathes lyric beauty and stamps a vivid impression upon the listener," the biographers wrote.
        Martin Cooper's music history, "The Modern Age, 1890-1960," (Oxford, 1974) called Mr. Schuman "essentially an urban American" composer and said "his music seems a reflection of the drive, buoyancy and tension of American life."  Forsaking Commerce for Music
        Born in Manhattan, William Howard Schuman attended public schools and while in high school formed a jazz ensemble, in which he played violin and banjo. At a summer camp he wrote the scores for stage productions and completed his first fully notated composition, a tango for violin and piano. His first published work was a popular song, "In Love with You," with lyrics by Frank Loesser.
        After high school, Mr. Schuman entered the School of Commerce at New York University, but hearing a symphony concert inspired him to study music seriously. He enrolled in New York's Malkin Conservatory in 1930, where he studied counterpoint and composition under Charles Haubiel. Mr. Schuman earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia University Teachers College in 1935 and his master's degree there in 1937.
        By this time, he had begun studying at Julliard under Roy Harris, a major influence on the young composer who was responsible for bringing him to the attention of conductor Serge Koussevitzky. Mr. Koussevitzky took a liking to Mr. Schuman and conducted the first performances of the "American Festival Overture" (1939), the Symphony No. 3 (1941), "A Free Song" (1943) and the Symphony for Strings (1943).
        After the critical and popular success of the Third Symphony, Mr. Schuman's work was performed extensively. He used this impetus to build a career as an arts administrator. An Innovator at Juilliard
        Mr. Schuman had joined the music faculty at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., in 1935 and left in 1945 to become the editor in chief and director of publications at G. Schirmer, the music publisher.
        Later that year, he assumed the presidency of the Juilliard School of Music, one of the most prestigious music academies in the world. He continued in that post until 1962.
        At Juilliard, Mr. Schuman instituted many changes in curriculum, including the creation of a course on "Literature and Materials of Music."
        He also helped develop the Juilliard Quartet, which served as a role model for similar institutionally based ensembles across the nation. And he brought several important American composers to the faculty, among them Mr. Persichetti, Hugo Weisgall and Peter Mennin, who succeeded him as Juilliard's president.
        As the new Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts was being opened, Mr. Schuman was placed in charge of its often-controversial development, helping to negotiate its relationship to the existing music establishment. He was appointed president in 1962, a position he held until 1969.
        During his tenure there, he championed the cause of new American music and dance, encouraging commissions and performances. His belief in the center's obligation to New Yorkers led to the Lincoln Center Student Program, which brought concert artists to the public schools and helped organize visits by student groups.
        He also encouraged the foundation of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and the center's various summer festivals and promenade series, including the highly popular annual Mostly Mozart celebration.
        After resigning the presidency of Lincoln Center, Mr. Schuman kept active as the chairman of the executive committee of its Chamber Music Society and as a board member of the center's Film Society.
        He also served as chairman of the MacDowell Colony in New Hampshire, a retreat for musicians.
        Among his many honors, Mr. Schuman was awarded the first New York Critics' Circle Award (1941) for the Symphony No. 3 and a special commission from the United States Government for "Credendum" (1955). He was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1940 and 1941.  In 1957, he received the Bicentennial Anniversary Medal from Columbia University. In 1982 he won the gold medal of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, in 1987 he received the National Medal of Arts and in 1989 he was honored by the Kennedy Center in Washington.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Frances Prince; a son, Anthony W. of Manhattan; a daughter, Andrea F. of Newton Highlands, Mass.; one grandchild, and a sister, Audrey Gerstner of Manhattan.
      