
        Richard E. Brackeen, a longtime aerospace executive who was former chief executive officer of the Fairchild Space and Defense Corporation, was shot on Wednesday at his home in Great Falls, Va., and died soon afterward at Fairfax Hospital. He was 53 years old.
        He died of a single gunshot wound to the upper body, Officer Bill Coulter, a spokesman for the Fairfax County police, said yesterday. Officer Coulter said that the shooting was still under investigation.
        Another police spokesman, Warren Carmichael, said suicide had been ruled out as a cause of death. He also said that the weapon had been recovered in the home and that there would be an autopsy today.
        A member of Mr. Brackeen's family notified the police of the shooting about 11 A.M., Officer Coulter said. Mr. Brackeen was flown by police helicopter to the hospital, where he died at 1:20 P.M.
        Mr. Brackeen was appointed chairman and chief executive of Fairchild, a space and military electronics company in Germantown, Md., in April 1990.  Acquisition of Company
        The company, which then had annual revenue of $230 million, is a unit of the Matra Group, a Paris-based international aerospace concern. As president and chief executive of Matra's American subsidiary, Matra Aerospace, , Mr. Brackeen had been responsible for the acquisition of Fairchild from Banner Industries for $245 million in August 1989.
        Mr. Brackeen left Fairchild in March 1991 because of "differences in philosophy" with the management of Matra, said Charles J. Speranzella, vice president and executive counsel of Fairchild. Mr. Speranzella noted that Mr. Brackeen had joined Matra to engage in acquisitions and expand the company's base in the United States but that with a slowdown in Government military contracts, the circumstances had changed.
        "But above all, he resigned because his wife had just been diagnosed with a serious illness and he felt he couldn't devote full time to the company," said Mr. Speranzella, who was a friend as well as a colleague.
        Since leaving Fairchild, Mr. Brackeen had served as a consultant to several space and military companies and had been a director of CTA Inc., an aerospace company in Rockville, Md.
        Before joining Matra in February 1989, Mr. Brackeen spent 22 years with the Martin Marietta Corporation, holding various corporate positions.
        He joined the company in 1967 as program director for the space shuttle recovery system and rocket aircraft research. In 1980 he was appointed vice president of business development for Martin Marietta's Astronautics Group, and in 1983 he became president of its Space Launch Systems Company. In 1986, he established and became president of Martin Marietta's Commercial Titan Inc.
        Mr. Brackeen, who was born near Los Alamos, N.M, held a bachelor's degree in aeronautical engineering from the University of Oklahoma, a master's degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Southern California and a master's degree in business administration from the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He is survived by his wife, Janet, of Great Falls, Va., and three daughters: Deborah, of San Francisco; Dana, of Tokyo, and Donna, of Great Falls.
      