
        Dr. Alfred L. Copley, who had dual careers as an abstract artist and as a medical researcher, died on Jan. 28 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and was a resident of Manhattan.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Pergamon Press is preparing a book about Dr. Copley entitled "One Man, Two Visions." He worked simultaneously in both professions for more than 40 years.
        As an artist, he went by the name Alcopley. He was a painter and graphic artist of the Abstract Expressionist and Minimalist schools. His work was featured in more than a dozen books and numerous one-man and group shows in the United States and abroad.
        His art is included in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, the National Museum of Modern Art in Tokyo, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam and the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, among others.
        He was one of a dozen New York artists who in 1949 started The Club, an informal group that socialized and worked together, and he helped start the companion Le Club in Paris. He was also a co-editor of Leonardo, an international journal for artists.
        As a physician and physiological researcher, he published hundreds of scientific articles. Most dealt with hemorheology, the study of the flowing properties of blood, and the discipline of biorheology, which he helped develop, on the flowing properties of all biological fluids.
        He earned medical degrees in both Germany and Switzerland and worked variously with the Veterans Administration Hospital in East Orange, N.J., the New York Medical School, the University of Virginia and Polytechnic University in Brooklyn. He was the founder and editor of three scientific journals: Thrombosis Research, Hemorheology and Biorheology.
        Born in Dresden, he fled from Nazi Germany in 1935. His mother, a sister and many other Jewish relatives died in the Holocaust. After two years in Switzerland, he moved to the United States in 1939. During the 1950's he also lived five years in Paris and two years in London.
        His wife, Nina Tryggvadottir, a painter from Iceland, is deceased. He is survived by a daughter, Una Dora Copley, a painter, of Manhattan.
      