
        Mary Osborne, one of the few women to gain jazz stardom as a guitarist and the first woman to play the electric guitar professionally, died on Wednesday at Mercy Hospital in Bakersfield, Calif. She was 70 years old.
        She died of liver failure as a result of cancer, said her son Ralph Scaffidi Jr.
        Both her parents were guitarists, and Ms. Osborne -- whose family name was Orsborn -- became fascinated by stringed instruments as a child. She began playing the ukulele when she was 4 and at 10 she joined a string band led by her father in which she played banjo. She had started playing guitar a year earlier, and while she was in grammar school she was playing jazz violin. 'The Most Startling Thing'
        She sang and played guitar in her hometown, Bismarck, N.D., in her teen-age years. When she was 17 some fellow musicians urged her to hear the Al Trent Sextet, which was playing a one-night stand in Bismark. One musician played an instrument she had never seen or heard before: an electric guitar. The guitarist was Charlie Christian.
        "The only electric guitar I knew of was the Hawaiian guitar," she said. "I'd listen to all the jazz guitarists of the time, but they all played acoustic. But here was Charlie Christian playing Django Reinhardt's 'St. Louis Blues' note for note but with an electric guitar. It was the most startling thing I'd ever heard."
        The next day, she found a guitar like Christian's. It cost $85; for $45, a friend built an amplifier for her. From then on, she was an electric guitarist.
        She went on the road with an all-female trio. When they played St. Louis, Buddy Rogers, the movie star-turned-band leader, heard them and added them to his band. The Rogers band broke up when it reached New York, but Ms. Osborne quickly got jobs at radio stations and recording studios and joined in jam sessions in clubs on West 52d Street. She eventually formed her own trio.
        With her husband, Ralph Scaffidi, a trumpet player, she moved to Bakersfield in 1968 where they formed and ran the Osborne Guitar Company, which later became the Osborne Sound Laboratories, a manufacturer of amplifiers and public-address systems. She appeared at the Kool Jazz Festival in New York in 1981 and played at the Village Vanguard two years ago.
        In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      