
        Jarvis Cromwell, a finance executive and longtime civic leader in New York City, died on Sunday at Princeton Hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 95 years old and lived in Hightstown, N.J., and Mount Desert Island, Me.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Cromwell graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton in 1918 and went to work for William Iselin & Company, a large factoring concern. Elected a partner in the 1920's, he was an important figure in its merger into the CIT Financial Corporation in 1932. From then until 1951, he served as president of Iselin, then a separate division of CIT.
        Next, he became the founder-president of Iselin-Jefferson Financial Corporation, which he built into another sizable factoring operation. It was sold to the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company in 1971. Ten years earlier, as a director of the Hanover Bank, he played a central role in its combination with the Manufacturers Trust Company. Hospital Trustee for 40 Years
        Mr. Cromwell, a trustee for 40 years, until 1979, of what became St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, held various posts with the hospital, including that of chairman from 1960 to 1963. He took part in merging Women's Hospital into St. Luke's and rebuilding Women's Hospital on Amsterdam Avenue.
        At the time of his death, he remained an honorary trustee of the hospital as well as of the New York Historical Society. He was a board member at many other charitable organizations and a former trustee and vice president of the Boys Club of New York City. During World War II, he was chairman of the New York chapter of the American Red Cross.
        He was active in the National Episcopal Church, serving as a trustee of its national pension system, insurance operations and publishing concerns.  Machine-Gun Battalion
        Mr. Cromwell, a graduate of St. Mark's School in Southborough, Mass., entered Princeton but interrupted his studies in 1917 to become a first lieutenant in a machine-gun battalion. Returning to Princeton, he was editor of The Daily Princetonian.
        Mr. Cromwell's first wife of 44 years, the former Barbara Kissel, died in 1968.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Edith Ely Kirk; a daughter, Patricia C. Miller of Oyster Bay, L.I.; a son, Roger J. K. Cromwell of Cheshire, Conn.; nine grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      