
        Hans Zeisel, a professor emeritus of law and sociology at the University of Chicago whose studies of the legal system, and juries in particular, are considered landmarks in the field, died Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 86 years old.
        Dr. Zeisel died of liver cancer, his daughter, Jean Richards of Manhattan, said.
        An immigrant educated in Austria, Dr. Zeisel was a pioneer in the use of applying sociological methods to analyze the way juries make decisions. His analysis of the interrogation of witnesses by the House Un-American Activities Committee was instrumental in the dissolution of the committee.
        A fervent opponent of capital punishment, he used his sociological methods to demonstrate that the death penalty discriminates against minority groups. And his work, in association with Prof. Harry Kalven Jr., was the basis for legal changes throughout the country.
        "He was an outstanding empirical scholar of legal institutions but, at the same time, had a highly developed social conscience and never put it aside for a moment," said Gerhard Casper, the provost of the University of Chicago and a former dean of the university's law school.
        Judge Jack Weinstein of the Federal District Court in Brooklyn, who worked with Dr. Zeisel in the mid-1950's, said, "He did the landmark study on the administration of justice in the New York courts, applying scientific proof and sociological analysis to the court system."
        Judge Weinstein went on, "And that was only one of a series of studies he did with Harry Kalven and others that were the pre-eminent studies of the workings of the court system." Effects of Unemployment
        Dr. Zeisel was born in Czechoslovakia in 1905, but moved with his family to Austria when he was a year old. He earned his law degree from the University of Vienna in 1927 and a doctorate in political science from the university a year later.
        A leading Austrian Socialist in the period between the World Wars, Dr. Zeisel practiced law in Vienna until 1938, but immigrated to the United States three months after the Nazis assumed power. While in Austria, he and two colleagues, Paul Lazarsfeld and Marie Jahoda, used sociological methods to write "Marienthal," a systematic study of the psychological effects of unemployment in the Austrian town of that name.
        The methods used in the "Marienthal" study were the basis of a book, "Say It With Figures" (Harper & Row, 1947), which Dr. Zeisel wrote and which brought him wide attention after he came to the United States. Dr. Zeisel became research director for the advertising agency, McCann-Erickson, and also served as a consultant to the War Department, the Justice Department, the Rand Corporation and the American Bar Association. He also taught sociology at Rutgers and Columbia Universities.
        In 1952, he was invited to join the faculty of the University of Chicago and to work with Professor Kalven on a Ford Foundation project, which led 14 years later to the publishing of "The American Jury" (Little, Brown and Company, 1966).
        "It proved that, on the whole, there is substantial agreement between professional judges and the lay jury," Dean Casper said. "It supports juries against the argument that they are arbitrary."
        "At the time they did their work, jury deliberations were mostly a closed book," Dean Casper said. "The question they asked themselves was what might be the difference between having the jury decide a case and having the judge decide the case." The study found that in one of four cases, the judge would have reached a different verdict.
        In 1965, in support of a suit against the House Un-American Activities Committee, Dr. Zeisel analyzed more than 100 transcripts of witnesses who had been called to testify. The analysis demonstrated that the questions had violated the constitutional rights of the witnesses.
        Another study by Dr. Zeisel showed that there was virtually a zero possibility that a person charged with murdering a black person would receive the death penalty. A 1983 book, "The Limits of Law Enforcement," (University of Chicago Press), indicated that the judicial system does not deter crime and that emphasis must be placed on early moral education of children.
        A small, slim man whom Judge Weinstein described as "constantly moving, eyes dancing, full of energy," Dr. Zeisel was an accomplished tennis player and swimmer.
        Besides his daughter, Dr. Zeisel is survived by his wife, Eva, an internationally known designer of ceramics; a son, John of Carlisle, Mass., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 12, 1992, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Hans Zeisel, a professor of law and sociology at the University of Chicago, omitted a survivor. She is his sister, Ilse Zeisel of Manhattan.
      