
        Martin Robinson, an organizer for gay-rights causes for 27 years who was known for his provocative protests, died on Thursday at home in Brooklyn.  He was 49 years old.
        He died of complications of AIDS, friends said.
        Mr. Robinson was present at a catalytic event in the gay-rights movement, when police raided the Stonewall, a Greenwich Village bar patronized by gay men, in 1969.
        Such raids were common, but for the first time the customers resisted and fought back. Afterward, a rally in Sheridan Square drew 2,000 sympathizers. Mr. Robinson, who had been active in the Mattachine Society, the main organization for homosexuals until then, was a lead speaker. A New Era of Activism
        The Stonewall riot became a symbol that galvanized many gay men and women and started a new era of activism. At the forefront, Mr. Robinson co-founded the Gay Activist Alliance and the Lavender Hill Mob. He was also active in the Gay Liberation Front and was a founding member of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power.
        He helped develop "zaps," inventive and confrontational protests, such as infiltrating someone else's event, grabbing the microphone and upstaging the proceedings.
        Mayor John V. Lindsay was interrupted at a ceremony marking the Metropolitan Museum of Art's 100th anniversary, in an effort to prod him into stronger support for gay rights legislation.
        Such tactics often caused resentment but also got attention and sometimes won access. Pressure on Dick Cavett persuaded him to give Mr. Robinson the platform of an appearance on national television. Sometimes Mr. Robinson resorted to more conventional methods, like testifying before the Presidential Commission on AIDS in 1987.
        Mr. Robinson was born in Brooklyn and attended New York University. He worked as a union carpenter specializing in residential remodeling.
        Surviving are two sisters, Esther of Staten Island and Dorothy of Minneapolis.
      