
        Heinrich Maria Ledig-Rowohlt, an illegitimate child who grew up to learn that his father was a prominent German publisher and who eventually took over the company, died on Feb. 27 at the East-West Clinic in New Delhi. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Ledig-Rowohlt died of pneumonia, a family spokeswoman said. He lived in Reinbek-bei-Hamburg, Germany, and Lavigny, Switzerland, and was in India for the International Publishers Association Congress.
        He was fond of telling his life story. It was a Dickensian tale, replete with the unknown father, the belated reunion, the devastation of their business by war, the company's rebirth and his ultimate success in literary circles.
        As a youngster he never knew his father, Ernst Rowohlt, the founder of the Rowohlt Verlag publishing house. The boy was raised by his mother, Maria Ledig, an actress. As a student he displayed an uncommon interest in books, so she arranged with his father to get the son a job in publishing.
        Although the elder publisher was notoriously difficult in his personal and business affairs, he was impressed by the son and revealed himself as his father. The young man adopted the name of Ledig-Rowohlt.
        In World War II, the company shut down after the Nazis blacklisted it for publishing the work of leftists and other politically unacceptable authors. Mr. Ledig-Rowohlt was drafted into the German Army and served on the Russian front.
        After the war, he began rebuilding and became the first publisher to win permission from American occupation officials to print. Able to get only low-grade paper, he used it for mass production of inexpensive paperback novels under the "rororo" imprint. The novels were popular among Germans, who reveled in the postwar supply of new fiction.
        The elder Mr. Rowohlt resumed separate operations in Germany's British zone. Eventually the two companies merged. After his father died in 1960, Mr. Ledig-Rowohlt took over as publisher and co-owner with his stepbrother, Harry Rowholt.
        Over the years the company specialized in American, French and other foreign authors, including Ernest Hemingway, Harper Lee, Philip Roth, Thomas Pynchon, Toni Morrison, Sinclair Lewis, William Faulkner, Thomas Wolfe, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Albert Camus and Vaclav Havel.
        His first wife, Hilda, is deceased. He is survived by his second wife, the former Jane Scatcherd Rosenthal; two daughters by his first marriage, Olwen and Ruth, and one grandchild.
      