
        The Rev. Paul M. Abels, a former Greenwich Village pastor who was the first openly gay minister with a congregation in a major Christian denomination in America, died on Thursday at his home in Rensselaerville, N.Y. He was 54 years old.
        He died of complications from AIDS, said Thomas Hunt, his companion for the past 14 years.
        Mr. Abels was the pastor of the Washington Square United Methodist Church from 1973 to 1984. It was known by some as the Peace Church for its opposition to the Vietnam War, and it had a large membership of gay men and women. Object of Criticism
        Controversy arose when he publicly acknowledged his homosexuality in 1977 and began performing "covenant ceremonies" for gay couples who were unable to have legal weddings.
        Citing a Biblical passage against homosexuality, critics called for his removal. His bishop urged Mr. Abels to take a leave, but he declined, and a regional Methodist body voted in his favor. The bishop appealed to a national church council, which decided Mr. Abels could retain his congregation.
        But the criticism continued, and he retired shortly before a 1984 national church conference voted to bar actively gay men and women from ordination or service as clergy. That is still the policy of the Methodists and most other denominations. Mr. Abels remained a Methodist and became active with Affirmation, a national group of gay and lesbian church members.
        After leaving the ministry, he ran Equinox, a nonprofit organization in Albany for runaway teen-agers, battered women, the homeless and drug and alcohol abusers. Since 1989 he worked as a consultant and, with Mr. Hunt as partner, opened Catalpa House, a bed-and-breakfast tourist home in Rensselaerville.
        He was a past president of the Rensselaerville Historical Society and Rensselaerville Historic District Association. He was a founder of Provo Muse, a performing arts organization, and the Gay and Lesbian Emergency Fund in New York for victims of anti-gay violence.
        Mr. Abels was born in Xenia, Ohio. He graduated from Drew University and its seminary and also earned a master's degree in sacred music from Union Theological Seminary. He was an organist and pianist.
        He worked for the National Council of Churches in New York from 1964 to 1969, as a program assistant in music ministry and later as director for the arts. He compiled and edited the "Anthology of Religious Folk Music" and "New Hymns for a New Day," which the council published. Some of his own hymns were included in the books. From 1969 to 1972, he worked in performing arts management. In 1972 and 1973, he was the general administrator of the Westbeth artists' housing center.
        He had been married and divorced. He is survived by two sisters, Leola Abels and Alberta Paul, and two brothers, Stanley and Lowell, all of the Cedarville, Ohio, area.
      