
        Retired Adm. George Whelan Anderson, the Chief of Naval Operations in charge of the American blockade of Cuba during the Soviet missile crisis in 1962, died Friday at the Arleigh Burke Pavilion nursing home in McLean, Va. He was 85 years old and lived in Washington, D.C.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Many military experts had expected that the four-star Navy admiral would become Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But a series of major policy disputes with Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara sidetracked Admiral Anderson's 36-year Navy career, and he was abruptly replaced as operations chief in 1963.
        But shortly after that, President John F. Kennedy, who was pleased with the Navy's handling of the blockade, appointed Admiral Anderson as the United States Ambassador to Portugal. During his three years there, he encouraged plans for a peaceful transition of the Portuguese colonies in Africa to national independence.
        After leaving his post in Portugal, Admiral Anderson returned to Government service from 1973 to 1977 as a member and later chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. Conflicts With McNamara
        In the Cuban crisis, the United States forced the removal of Soviet nuclear missiles from the island. President Kennedy was quoted as telling Mr. Anderson, "Well, Admiral it looks as though this is up to the Navy," to which he replied, "Mr. President, the Navy will not let you down." Time magazine featured him on its cover, calling him "an aggressive blue-water sailor of unfaltering competence and uncommon flare."
        But he bridled at the extent of Mr. McNamara's insistence on civilian involvement in running the operation, regarding it as a usurpation of traditional military authority.
        Historians say that the two men even debated specific ship deployments in an argument that erupted in the Situation Room at the Pentagon.
        They also differed on other issues. Mr. McNamara proposed using the TFX fighter plane for both the Navy and Air Force, but the Admiral rejected it as unsuitable -- and Congress agreed with him. Mr. McNamara thwarted the Navy's long-held plans to make all its aircraft carriers nuclear powered. And Admiral Anderson ruffled feelings when reporters obtained and publicized his private letter criticizing the adequacy of a military raise. War Service in Pacific
        Born in Brooklyn, he entered the Naval Academy in 1927 and trained as a pilot after graduation. He flew as a test pilot and served on cruisers and carriers. In World War II Admiral Anderson helped the Navy's huge expansion of its air arm and participated in strikes in the Pacific as a navigator on the second carrier Yorktown.
        After the war he commanded the antisubmarine carrier, Mindoro. Then he was picked to assist General Dwight D. Eisenhower at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The general had asked the Navy to "send me the smartest naval aviator you've got."
        Among his posts, he was commander of the carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt and a special assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He also commanded Task Force 77 between Taiwan and mainland China and became chief of staff to the Pacific commander, commanded Carrier Division Six in the Mediterranean during the Lebanon landing and later commanded the Sixth Fleet.
        After leaving the Navy, he was the chairman of the Lamar Corporation, an outdoor advertising company, and served on the boards of Value Line, National Airlines and Crown Seal & Cork. He was also a president of the Metropolitan Club in Washington.
        Mr. Anderson's first wife, the former Muriel Buttling, died in 1947. Two sons who became Navy pilots are also deceased. George W. Anderson 3d, died of cancer and Thomas Patrick Anderson, who flew more than 200 combat missions in Vietnam, died in a plane crash in the Mediterranean.
        Surviving are Mr. Anderson's second wife of 44 years, the former Mary Lee Sample; a daughter, Mary Annette Coughlin of Washington; a stepdaughter, Carolyn Sample Abshire of Alexandria, Va.; 12 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      