
        Otto Klineberg, whose pioneering studies on the intelligence scores of black students helped win the Supreme Court's landmark school desegregation case in 1954, died on Friday at the Carriage Hill nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Klineberg, a renowned social psychologist, was a lifelong critic and debunker of racial superiority theories, whether propounded by Nazis, white Southerners or black extremists.
        He played a significant role in the desegregation victory on three levels. Jack Greenberg, a lawyer on the case, said Dr. Klineberg "was the father of the studies we used" to prove that segregated schools provided an unequal education.
        And he testified as an expert in a Delaware suit that was one of four cases consolidated for the Supreme Court, and the only one that the integrationists had won in the lower courts. Controversial Views
        In studies that he started more than 60 years ago, he found that students in underfinanced Southern black schools averaged lower intelligence scores than Southern whites and Northern blacks and whites. But when blacks moved north to schools that were integrated and of better quality, their scores eventually equalled those of Northern-born blacks.
        In the North, he concluded, the scores of blacks nearly matched those of whites, with the discrepancy attributable to social and economic differences.
        His views were controversial. When he was quoted in 1931 saying there was no scientific basis for racial superiority or barring interracial marriage, the New York Herald-Tribune, in an editorial against him, said his assertions ran counter to most ethnologists, "any intelligent farmer's knowledge of barnyard biology" and "American experience."
        But he also won praise. In 1935 the columnist Lewis Gannett praised Dr. Klineberg's latest work, saying, "The Negroes are not inferior; they just have not had a chance. It is too much to hope that one academic monograph will blow away the mists of superstition in which the average white American mind is wrapped; but this little book may make a beginning."
        Dr. Klineberg once said "there is no more important problem for our democracy" than achieving harmony among the many groups "that make up the American people." Psychology Associations
        He was a former president or chairman of the International Union of Scientific Psychology, the World Federation for Mental Health, the Inter-American Society of Psychology, the Eastern Psychological Association and the Society for Psychological Study of Social Issues.
        Born in Quebec, he grew up in Montreal. He earned a bachelor's degree at McGill University in Montreal in 1919, a master's in philosophy from Harvard in 1920, a medical degree from McGill in 1925 and a doctorate in psychology at Columbia in 1927. There he began studying American Indians, taught psychology and became the first chairman of the social psychology department.
        In 1961 he went to the University of Paris, where he directed the International Center for Intergroup Relations. He retired there in 1982, returned to New York and taught part time at City University until 1990.
        Surviving are his wife of 59 years, the former Selma Gintzler; a daughter, Rosemary K. Coffey of Pittsburgh; two sons, John M. of Chevy Chase, Md., and Stephen L. of Houston; eight grandchildren; a brother, Jack, of Montreal, and five sisters, Florence Pascal, Nettye Greenberg, Beatrice Shapera, Dolly Ginsberg and Queenie Meyerovitch, all of Montreal.
      