
        Michael A. Feighan, a 14-term Democratic Congressman from Ohio who was chief architect of the 1965 immigration act that abolished the system of quotas by national origin, died yesterday at a hospital in Washington. He was 87 years old and had homes in Washington and Cleveland.
        He died of a brain tumor, his family said.
        Tall, spare and taciturn, Mr. Feighan (pronounced FEE-an), who represented parts of Cleveland and its suburbs for 28 years in Congress until 1971, seemed an unlikely champion of the Federal Immigration Act of 1965.
        The legislation, which he shaped and shepherded through in 12 weeks, overturned a rigid quota system that had allowed more immigrants from northern and western European countries than from other parts of the world. The LBJ 'Treatment'
        Mr. Feighan had been regarded as a bedfellow of conservative and patriotic groups standing firmly on the status quo. But many of Mr. Feighan's constituents had Polish, Hungarian or Slovak ancestry, and Mr. Feighan was a staunch anti-Communist.
        His decision to work for the bill was helped along by its powerful backer, President Lyndon B. Johnson, who put Mr. Feighan on his fabled list for "the treatment." That meant White House dinners, consultations in the Oval Office and trips on Air Force One. Mr. Feighan, who headed the Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, got the message and Mr. Johnson got his bill.
        The act, which because of House protocol bore the name of Emmanuel Celler, the Brooklyn Democrat who was chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, established preferences based on such criteria as being a professional, a refugee or the relative of an American. As a result, many thousands of Hungarians fleeing the Soviet-led invasion of their country in 1956 became American citizens.
        Michael Aloysius Feighan was born in Lakewood, Ohio. His father, a banker, was a former owner of the Cleveland Indians.
        The younger Mr. Feighan, a 1927 graduate of Princeton University who received his bachelor of laws degree from Harvard University, began his career as one of five brothers in the Ohio law firm of Feighan, Feighan, Feighan, Feighan & Feighan. He entered the Ohio State Legislature in 1937, becoming its minority leader two years later. Election to Congress
        He was elected to represent the 20th Congressional District in 1942, when Time magazine commended him as a promising new face on Capitol Hill.
        He left office in January 1971 after failing to win renomination. He then turned to political consulting.
        Mr. Feighan's wife of 50 years, the former Florence Mathews, died in 1980. His companion was Lelah Rodenberger.
        He is survived by a son, William, of Paradise Valley, Ariz.; a daughter, Fleur Jones of Greenwich, Conn.; a sister, Anne O'Brien of Lighthouse Point, Fla., and two grandsons. A nephew, Representative Edward F. Feighan, a Democrat, has represented the 19th District from suburban Cleveland since 1983.
      