
        William J. Voute, a former vice chairman of Salomon Brothers who helped lead the company's expansion as a major international bond trader, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y., and Gulf Stream, Fla.
        He died of cancer, which had been diagnosed two weeks earlier, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Voute joined Salomon in New York in 1960, became a limited partner in 1972, an executive committee member in 1981 and vice chairman in 1987. He supervised all of Salomon's corporate and international bond trading and capital raising and was considered by industry experts to be a major figure in the company's rise to prominence in bond trading.
        He left Salomon in 1989 and with three other company officials formed Voute, Coats, Stuart & O'Grady, an investment banking firm of which he was chairman, based in Greenwich, Conn. In 1990 that firm merged with the First Boston Corporation and Mr. Voute became vice chairman. But the arrangement did not mesh and he left to found his own company in 1991, the Voute Financial Corporation, based in Bronxville.
        Active in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, Mr. Voute was on the executive committee of the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity, a trustee of the Papal Foundation, a board member of the Layman's Committee for the Propagation of the Faith and chairman of the St. Joseph's Parish Council in Bronxville.
        He was co-chairman of the American Cardiovascular Research Foundation and vice chairman of the trustees at both Fordham University and Marymount Manhattan College.
        He was also a board member at Boston College, Lawrence Hospital, Friends of American Art in Religion, the Inner-City Scholarship Fund, the Inter-Religious Task Force, Friends of the New York Fire Department Collection and New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Benefit Fund. He also was a fund raiser for St. Vincent's Hospital, New York Medical College, Daytop drug treatment program and Covenant House.
        Mr. Voute was born in Riverdale, in the Bronx. He was a 1960 graduate of Fordham and earned a master's degree in business administration from New York University in 1961.
        He is survived by his wife of 28 years, the former Mary Jane Walsh; four daughters, Mary Ellen and Jean Voute and Carolyn Murphy, all of Bronxville, and Kathleen Gudmundsson of Rye, N.Y.; a sister, Kathleen MacDonald of Bronxville, and a brother, Arthur J. Jr. of South Salem, N.Y.
      