
        Bernard J. Lasker, a former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and fund-raiser for prominent Republicans like former President Richard M. Nixon and former Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York City, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.  He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Greenwich, Conn.
        He died of heart failure after an illness of several weeks, said James J. Fuld, a lawyer and friend of Mr. Lasker.
        A native New Yorker and self-made businessman, known as Bunny, Mr. Lasker was probably best known as the chairman of the Big Board in 1970, when stock prices fell sharply and public confidence in the financial markets was sorely tested. Mr. Lasker shuttled between Washington and Wall Street, meeting with President Nixon and others to stabilize the stock market. 'Iron Sense of Duty'
        To steady the financial system, Mr. Lasker helped orchestrate an orderly consolidation of the brokerage industry during that period, insuring that smaller, faltering firms could be taken over by larger, stronger firms. In "The Go-Go Years," a narrative chronicle of the 1968-70 period on Wall Street, the author John Brooks credited Mr. Lasker with playing a key role in helping the brokerage industry through the crisis, writing that he was "by all accounts and evidences a man of iron sense of duty and scrupulous professional rectitude."
        William H. Donaldson, the chairman of the stock exchange, praised Mr. Lasker's contributions to the financial industry. "Bernard Lasker brilliantly led the New York Stock Exchange during a period of revolutionary change," Mr. Donaldson said. "In the decades he served on Wall Street, Bunny was held in the highest regard by everyone in the industry."
        Mr. Lasker was born in Manhattan in 1910, the son of a sponge-and-chamois importer on Beaver Street. After attending the Franklin School, a private New York high school, he began his career on Wall Street in 1927 at the age of 17, as a runner for Hirsch, Lilienthal & Company. He rose steadily from carrying buy-and-sell orders and messages, to the sales-and-purchase department and assistant manager of a branch office. In 1939, he became a member of the New York Stock Exchange and, by 1968, he had become senior partner of his own firm, Lasker, Stone & Stern.
        In 1969, Mr. Lasker was elected chairman of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange and served in that post until 1971. Delegate to Conventions
        As a youth, Mr. Lasker applied to the United States Military Academy but was not accepted, Mr. Fuld said. Still, his fondness for West Point was undiminished and, in later life, he enthusiastically supported the academy and was honored for his services. In 1984, he was named the chairman of the board of visitors, and Sept. 30, 1989, was declared "Bunny Lasker Day" at West Point. In 1990, he became the first honorary letterman at the academy.
        For a quarter of a century, Mr. Lasker was active in Republican politics, mainly as a fund-raiser. In 1965, he was the chairman of the finance committee for Mr. Lindsay, who ran for Mayor as a Republican. Mr. Lasker served as a delegate to the Republican conventions in 1968, 1972 and 1976, and was the co-chairman of the Republican national finance committee from 1976 through 1986.
        As a benefactor, Mr. Lasker contributed his time and money to several medical institutions including Mount Sinai Hospital, New York Hospital and the San Francisco Heart Institute. He was also a trustee for the Jewish Guild for the Blind and an active fund-raiser for the United Jewish Appeal-Federation.
        Mr. Lasker retired from his Wall Street firm in 1989. His name and his nickname surfaced briefly in one of Wall Street's insider-trading cases in the 1980's, but he was never accused of any wrongdoing. In the case, the phrase "your bunny has a good nose" was mentioned by an investment banker to another stock trader as a way of confirming speculation about a corporate takeover deal passed on by Mr. Lasker.
        He is survived by his wife, Lesley; a son, John, president of Camp Beverly Hills, a retail clothing-store chain based in Beverly Hills, Calif., and a daughter, Joan Sobel Lasker, vice president of corporate public relations for Cosmair Inc., a cosmetics company.
      