
        Stuart Nash Scott, who headed a commission that warned New York City prior to its 1975 fiscal crisis that its finances were out of control, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan.
        He was 85 years old and died of a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Scott, a prominent corporate lawyer, was a former president of the New York State Bar Association and also served briefly as the United States Ambassador to Portugal. He was removed by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger after a policy dispute.
        Mr. Scott was chairman of the Temporary State Commission to Make a Study of the Governmental Operation of the City of New York, which became known as the Scott Commission. Its final report in 1973 concluded that the city could not afford all its services, spent more than it took in, used gimmicks to cover its deficit and should sharply reduce programs and costs. Warnings Largely Unheeded
        The warnings went largely unheeded. Shut out of the credit market two years later, the city was forced to freeze wages, fire tens of thousands of workers and slash services.
        The commission, created in 1971 by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, was attacked by Mayor John V. Lindsay's aides as a pawn in the feud between the Mayor and Governor. Mr. Scott, not registered in any party, disavowed any ulterior motives.
        "The city must not only economize but it must abandon its role in areas into which municipal activity has extended," the panel said. Projecting that the gap between rising costs and limited revenues was growing to billions of dollars, the panel said "a comprehensive and all-embracing municipal government is no longer viable."
        The panel recommended productivity goals and long-range budgeting, reforms enacted years later.
        In his 10-month stint as an ambassador in 1974, Mr. Scott sought American aid to help stabilize Portugal amid Communist inroads. But his superiors contended that any aid to Portugal might be seen as helping or condoning Communism.
        Mr. Kissinger replaced Mr. Scott with Frank C. Carlucci but said the rejected request for aid was not the reason for Mr. Scott's dismissal. Soon after, the State Department reversed itself and approved money, loans and technical help for Portugal. Graduated From Yale
        Mr. Scott was born in Madison, Wis. He graduated in 1927 from Yale University and in 1930 from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the law review. After teaching at the school in 1930-31, he joined the Manhattan law firm now named Dewey Ballantine Bushby Palmer & Wood. He became a partner in 1941, retired about five years ago and remained a counsel to the firm.
        International trade was a special interest. He was the trade counsel to the French Purchasing Commission in 1939-40 that helped American companies win contracts from France. Much later he helped Dewey Ballantine set up an office in Brussels for the European market.
        In World War II, he earned a distinguished civilian service medal as a counsel to the Navy's Aeronautics Bureau and was general counsel to the Surplus War Property Administration.
        He was a chairman of the New York City Bar Association's executive committee and the Harvard Law School Fund. He served on the boards of the Wooster School, the Columbia School of Social Work, the Hudson Fund, the Airborne Instruments Laboratory, the Wallace Aviation Corporation and the Cuban Atlantic Sugar Company.
        His wife, the former Katherine Miller, died last year. He is survived by his daughter, Susan Scott Porter of Framingham, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      