
        Mendes Hershman, who helped improve the merit selection of judges in New York as chairman of both the city and state judicial screening panels, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Hershman, a longtime insurance company executive, was a leader in professional legal circles and served on many government and bar panels.
        He was best known as the head of the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary from 1972 to 1977 under Mayors John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame, and as head of the Commission on Judicial Nomination for the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, for the past decade.
        "He was a real pioneer in improving judicial selection," said Hank Henry, executive director of the Fund for Modern Courts, a nonprofit organization.  Served on Many Panels
        Sol Wachtler, chief judge of the Court of Appeals, said Mr. Hershman "did a great deal toward opening up the process and reaching out to potential judges."
        For 31 years Mr. Hershman worked at the New York Life Insurance Company in Manhattan, rising to senior vice president and general counsel. After reaching the mandatory retirement age there in 1977, he joined the law firm of Rosenman & Colin as a senior partner and was named a counsel in 1990.
        He was chairman of the legal advisory committee to the board of the New York Stock Exchange, the 1984 Committee for the Recodification of State Insurance Law, the 1982 Commission on Uniform State Laws and the executive committee of the New York City Bar Association. He was co-chairman of a joint city and state bar association task force on liability insurance and was on the New York Law Journal's board of editors. Published Law Articles
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him to a panel to promote investment in middle-class housing and Gov. Hugh L. Carey appointed him to a panel that investigated the financial collapse of the State Urban Development Corporation and recommended an overhaul of state debt practices.
        Mr. Hershman published many journal articles on insurance, corporate, securities and real-estate law.
        He was a former president of New York University's Washington Square College Alumni Association and was active in the United Jewish Appeal, the Greater New York Fund, the Citizens Union, the Landmarks Conservancy and United Neighborhood Houses.
        Mr. Hershman, who was born in Allentown, Pa., grew up there and in New York City. He graduated from New York University in 1929 and Harvard Law School in 1932.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Frances Stackell; two daughters, Jenny Wolf and Danielle Blaire-Hershman, both of Manhattan; a sister, Toba Hauptman of Lexington, Mass., and four grandsons.
      