
        Joseph A. Buttinger, a Nazi fighter who became an advocate for refugees of persecution and a renowned authority on Vietnam and the American war there, died on Wednesday at the Margaret Pietz Center for Nursing in Queens. He was 85 years old.
        He died of natural causes after suffering from Alzheimer's disease, friends said.
        Mr. Buttinger was born on an impoverished Bavarian farm and left home at 15 to work in an Austrian glass factory. He soon became the leader of Austria's Socialist youth movement and by 24 was secretary of the Social Democratic Party and an ally of labor unions. After being imprisoned for several months in 1934, he became chairman of the Socialist underground and a top leader of the anti-Nazi movement. Fled to Paris in 1938
        In the resistance, he met a courier and eventually married her. She was Muriel Gardiner, a wealthy American medical student who later became a noted psychoanalyst and wrote a political memoir titled "Code Name Mary." Many experts said she was the model for Lillian Hellman's book "Julia." Ms. Hellman denied it but declined to identify the woman she had portrayed.
        When Germany occupied Austria in 1938, the Buttingers fled to Paris, where he was chairman of the exiled Socialists. In 1939, several months before the fall of France, the couple moved to the United States.
        In 1940, Mr. Buttinger helped found what became the International Rescue Committee, a nonprofit organization aiding refugees of political, religious and racial persecution. Its initial work was with refugees from the Nazis, and later refugees of many Communist countries and other dictatorships. For 42 years, he served variously as director of the organization's Paris office and European division, board member and vice president.
        Working with refugees in Vietnam in the 1950's, he became immersed in the history, culture and politics of that nation. He formed an organization, American Friends of Vietnam, and became a friend and supporter of the ruler, Ngo Dinh Diem. Later, disillusioned with Diem's dictatorial ways, Mr. Buttinger renounced him.
        Despite having no formal education beyond the sixth grade, he became a respected historian and analyst of current events in Vietnam. As the United States went to war with Vietnam, his scholarship was in demand. His evolving view was that American policy was historically and morally misguided and doomed to fail.
        His two-volume work, "Vietnam: A Dragon Embattled" (Praeger, 1967) was heralded in a review in The New York Times as "a monumental work" that "marks a strategic breakthrough in the serious study of Vietnamese politics in America" and as "the most thorough, informative and, over all, the most impressive book on Vietnam yet published in America." Other Titles
        His other books included: "In the Twilight of Socialism" (Praeger 1952), "The Smaller Dragon -- A Political History of Vietnam" (Praeger, 1958), "A Dragon Defiant: A Short History of Vietnam" (Praeger, 1972) and "Vietnam: The Unforgettable Tragedy" (Horizon, 1977).
        Thirty-three years after he fled Austria, the Government awarded him its Golden Order of Merit. Chancellor Bruno Kreisky once mused that Mr. Buttinger was such a hero that if he had returned, he would have become chancellor.
        His wife died several years ago. He is survived by his daughter, Constance Harvey of Aspen, Col.; a sister, Marie Fuchs, who lives in Austria; a brother, Louis, who now lives in the United States, and six grandchildren.
      