
        Alfred J. Bohlinger, a former New York State Insurance Superintendent who helped win compulsory automobile insurance and fought against fraud in union welfare funds, died on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89 years old and lived in Palm Beach.
        He died of multiple ailments, his family said.
        Gov. Thomas E. Dewey appointed him as Insurance Superintendent, a post he held from 1950 to 1955. Mr. Bohlinger fought to require coverage for all motor vehicles and eventually such a law was adopted. He also approved changes to reward driving-class graduates with discounted insurance bills and to penalize bad drivers by raising their rates.
        Several controversies marked his tenure. His agency exposed fraud, racketeering, waste and other abuses in some union health and welfare insurance funds, and those investigations spurred reform efforts. A Critical Report
        He also issued a critical report that forced out the longtime head of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, then the nation's third largest life insurer. And he succeeded in getting the International Workers Order, a fraternal group that issued millions of dollars of insurance, shut down on the ground that it was a Communist front.
        Mr. Bohlinger, who was born in Manhattan, graduated from New York Law School in 1924 and went into private practice. In 1943, he served as the counsel to a state commission investigating mismanagement at the Creedmoor state mental hospital. The next year he was appointed a deputy insurance superintendent.
        After leaving government, he returned to law practice, specializing in insurance. He was on the board of the City Title Insurance Company and a counsel to the National Association of Independent Insurers. He retired in 1980.
        He served on the boards of the Citizens Budget Commission, the Civil Service Reform Association and New York Law School, where he was also the alumni association president. In 1958, he managed State Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz's election campaign. Over the years he also raised money for church and other charitable causes.
        His first wife, the former Katherine Bohn Riehle, who was vice chairman of the Manhattan Republican Committee, died in 1968.
        He is survived by his wife of 22 years, the former Marion MacDonald Greenway; three stepdaughters, Mary Jeanne Flynn of Hamilton, Mass., Edwina Neuman of Manhattan and Gail Elias of Frankfurt, Germany; seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      