
        Peter Sammartino, the founder of Fairleigh Dickinson University and an early leader in the restoration of Ellis Island, was found shot to death yesterday with his wife, Sylvia, at their home in Rutherford, N.J., in what the police said was a murder-suicide. He was 87 years old and his wife was 88.
        The couple had been in failing health. The Bergen County Prosecutor, John J. Fahy, said Mrs. Sammartino had Alzheimer's disease and Dr. Sammartino had undergone surgery to remove a kidney.
        No note was found. But Mr. Fahy said that Dr. Sammartino had been recently getting his affairs in order and had hinted to friends that he might die soon.
        The university Dr. Sammartino founded in the old Ivison Castle in Rutherford is to celebrate its 50th anniversary later this year. He began with 60 students. The initial decision to start a two-year junior college was made four days before the bombing of Pearl Harbor. The next morning Dr. Sammartino and a handful of colleagues reconsidered and, by one vote, decided to proceed. Enrollment of 12,000
        Today Fairleigh Dickinson is the largest private university in New Jersey. It has an enrollment of 12,000 and campuses in Teaneck-Hackensack, Rutherford and Florham Park-Madison, plus a branch in Wroxton, England. Its programs include liberal arts, business administration, dentistry, engineering and education.
        Mrs. Sammartino, the former Sylvia (Sally) Scaramelli, served without pay for 14 years as its first director of admissions and retired as dean of admissions. The university's initial financing was $15,000 from Dr. Sammartino, $15,000 from his father-in-law and $30,000 from Col. Fairleigh S. Dickinson, the head of the Becton, Dickinson surgical appliance company, for whom the school was named. The original building cost $21,600. Years later, individual contributions rose into the millions of dollars.
        An innovative educator, Dr. Sammartino insisted that teachers visit students in their homes, sent the social sciences department to visit Asia and Africa, dispatched students to the Bowery, coal mines and migrant camps, and required some students to buy a share of stock in any company to study its reports.
        When new buildings were planned, the contractors' bids were opened by students at assemblies, and architects were on stage to answer questions. The students voted their recommendations to the trustees. When money ran out on one project, the students decided to complete the work themselves. Dr. Sammartino and the faculty donned overalls to join them.
        To impress local business with the college's economic importance, he once paid the staff and faculty in silver dollars, and the merchants quickly took notice. He also a promoted health food, buying chemical-free beef and providing free brewer's yeast and cheap vitamins for students. He was an outspoken critic of water fluoridation.
        Dr. Sammartino served as president until he retired in 1967, but remained active at the university and in other causes. Active in Civic Affairs
        He was the president of the New York Cultural Center, in the former Gallery of Modern Art building at Columbus Circle, for five years. The gallery was donated to the university by Huntington Hartford, heir to the A& P fortune. Mr. Sammartino was also on the board of the State Opera Society. He was the founder and chairman of the Restore Ellis Island Committee, but he retired from the effort in 1978. He also founded the International Association of University Professors and served as its president.
        He was chairman of an eight-town economic development commission and vice president of the New Jersey Constitutional Convention and the National Italian-Americans Foundation. He also participated in the President's Commission on Higher Education, the White House Conference on Education, the Peace Corps advisory board and the National Board of Foreign Scholarships. He worked to improve services for the hearing-impaired, of which he was one.
        Dr. Sammartino was born in New York City. He graduated from City College in 1924 at New York University earned a master's degree in education in 1928 and a doctorate in 1931. The idea for Fairleigh Dickinson grew out of his work for 10 years at the New College, an experimental school at Columbia University's Teachers College. He wrote more than a dozen books on education.
        Mrs. Sammartino was born in Boston. She graduated from Smith College and earned a master's degree in history from Columbia. She was chairwoman of the State Commission on Women and president of the Garden State Ballet Foundation.
        A university spokeswoman said she did not know of any immediate survivors.
        A maid found the Sammartinos bodies in the bedroom of their home in Rutherford early yesterday afternoon, after she suspected something was amiss and forced open the locked door.
        The police recovered a .38-caliber revolver. Mrs. Sammartino was shot in the temple and Dr. Sammartino was shot in the mouth, Mr. Fahy said. The last time the couple were seen alive was 4:30 P.M. Saturday, when the maid left the house for the day.
      