
        Easley Blackwood, one of the most famous personalities in the history of contract bridge and the inventor of the game's best-known convention, died on Friday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 89 years old.
        He died in his sleep after a period of failing health, said his son, Easley Blackwood Jr.
        Mr. Blackwood was known throughout the world of bridge for the Blackwood convention, which he devised in 1933. This simple method calls for the partner of a four no-trump bidder to show the number of aces he holds by steps at the level of five. The idea was offered to Ely Culbertson, the great authority of the day, but it was rejected. Culbertson did not wish to see a rival to his own more complex, four-five no-trump convention, but within a decade almost everyone was using Blackwood and the Culbertson variety was all but forgotten.
        In six decades, the Blackwood convention has spawned a host of variations: Baby Blackwood, Roman Blackwood, Key-Card Blackwood, Byzantine Blackwood, Redwood and Roman Key-Card Blackwood. The last of these is now highly popular in tournament play, but the vast majority of players throughout the world still use Blackwood in its original form. It has been estimated that if Mr. Blackwood had received a one-penny royalty every time his convention was used, he would have been a billionaire twice over. A Series of Books
        Mr. Blackwood made many other significant contributions to the game. He was the author of a series of major books: "Bridge Humanics" (Droke House, 1949), "Blackwood on Bidding" (Bobbs-Merrill, 1956), "Blackwood on Slams" (Prentice Hall, 1970), "How You Can Play Winning Bridge With Blackwood" (Pinnacle, 1977), "Play of the Hand With Blackwood" (Pinnacle, 1978) and "The Complete Book of Opening Leads" (Devyn Press, 1983).
        He wrote many magazine articles, some of them under the nom de plume of Ernest Wormwood, and a syndicated column. As a player, he won two regional titles, the Midwest Men's Pairs in 1944 and the Southern Conference Open Teams in 1962. He was a member of the National Laws Commission.
        Mr. Blackwood was born in Birmingham, Ala., in 1903. At the age of 17, he became an insurance clerk in Decatur, Ill., and at 26 became the youngest manager in the history of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. In 1930, he was transferred to Indianapolis and managed the company's office there until he retired in 1964.
        He then presided over Blackwood Bridge Enterprises, establishing a bridge club and conducting bridge activities on 32 luxury ship cruises. He taught bridge widely and was awarded honorary membership in the American Teachers Association in 1978. He was named Personality of the Year by the International Bridge Press Association in 1984.
        Mr. Blackwood became chief executive of the American Contract Bridge League in 1968, with the title of executive secretary, after a period of disarray in the organization. In the next three years, he put the organization on a firm financial basis and improved the master point system, and then retired. He is still regarded by many as the most effective chief executive in the league's history.
        His son is the only immediate survivor.
      