
        Dr. Hellmut E. Lehmann-Haupt, a widely published bibliography expert and author, died yesterday at his home in Columbia, Mo. He was 88 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said his son, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt, the senior daily book critic for The New York Times.
        A bibliography of Dr. Lehmann-Haupt's publications prepared in 1959 listed 200 titles, ranging from studies of Gutenberg and early type design to an analysis of the comic strip.
        Some of his books became classics in the field and had many editions. His "Fifty Books About Bookmaking," originally published in 1933, was enlarged as "Seventy Books About Bookmaking" in 1941 and again as "One Hundred Books About Bookmaking" in 1949.
        In 1954, his book "Art Under a Dictatorship" described the way the Nazi and Soviet Governments bent all means of expression to an ideological purpose. A reviewer who praised the book in The New York Times Book Review commented that it "has the strange fascination of a horror novel."
        Hellmut Emil Lehmann-Haupt was born in Berlin in 1903. With his father a professor of ancient history and his mother a playwright, he developed an early interest in the art of the book. At the Universities of Berlin, Vienna and Frankfurt, he concentrated on the fine arts and eventually published his doctoral dissertation on early book illustration. The Move to the U.S.
        In 1929 he moved to the United States and worked for the Encyclopedia Britannica. The next year he was named curator of the rare book department of the Columbia University Library. Nine years later he was promoted to assistant professor of book arts in Columbia's School of Library Service and devoted his time to teaching, research and writing.
        He resigned in 1950 and became chief bibliography expert for H. P. Kraus, a rare book and manuscript dealer in New York City. Among his achievements with the Kraus concern was the authentication and catalogue description of the Constance Missal, a written record of Masses celebrated in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Constance, Germany, that was printed some years before the first Gutenberg Bible. The missal was acquired by the Pierpont Morgan Library.
        In addition to his son Christopher, he is survived by his third wife, Ingeborg; three other sons, Carl and John, both of Manhattan, and Alexander, of Liberty, N.Y., and a daughter, Roxanna, of Manhattan.
      