
        Porter McKeever, a biographer of Adlai E. Stevenson, a close associate of John D. Rockefeller 3d and founding president of the United Nations Association of the United States, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 76 years old and lived in Pelham, N.Y.
        He died of cancer, a member of the family said.
        An advocate of the United Nations from its origin in 1945, Mr. McKeever served for six years as director of information for the United States Mission to the United Nations. He resigned in 1952, attacking the Truman Administration for bypassing the United Nations and reducing what had been a cornerstone of United States policy to "the size of a pebble."
        "No official has had more experience in the day-to-day working of the international body or has done more to make our part in it known to the world," an editorial in The New York Times said at the time of his resignation. "Mr. McKeever is right in asserting that the 'withering away' of the United Nations would be a great victory for the Soviet Union in the cold war."
        Upon leaving the State Department, Mr. McKeever became executive director of the Chicago Council of Foreign Relations. In 1953, the newly established Ford Foundation named him director of public information, and he later served in a similar capacity with the Council for Economic Development.  U.N. Association of U.S.
        He joined Adlai Stevenson's campaign for the Presidency in 1952 as national publicity director of volunteers for Stevenson. Mr. McKeever was author of "Adlai Stevenson: His Life and Legacy," published in 1989 by William Morrow & Company.
        In 1964, Mr. McKeever was named the first president of the United Nations Association of the United States of America a nongovernmental research and educational organization concerned with the United States participation in the United Nations and its agencies. In 1973, he joined Mr. Rockefeller as senior associate and was named vice president of the John D. Rockefeller 3d Fund.
        At the time of his death, Mr. McKeever was chairman of the International Council and a life trustee of the Asia Society and of the Japan Society.
        Born in Kennebec, S.D., Mr. McKeever graduated from Columbia University.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Susan Clark Lobenstine; a daughter, Karen Eichenlaub of Wayland, Mass.; two sons, James E., of Seattle, and William K., of Halifax, Nova Scotia; a foster son, the concert violinist Cho-Liang Lin of New York, and eight grandchildren.
      