
        Dr. Arthur Cronquist, a senior scientist at the New York Botanical Garden and creator of an important system of plant classification, died on Sunday while doing research at the Brigham Young University Herbarium in Provo, Utah. He was 73 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said Karl F. Lauby, the director of public relations at the botanical garden, in the Fordham section of the Bronx.
        Dr. Cronquist was widely recognized for his extensive knowledge of the plants of the world and his ability to synthesize data from the entire plant kingdom in his classification system.
        In 1968, Dr. Cronquist published "The Evolution and Classification of Flowering Plants" (Scientific Publications, the New York Botanical Garden), one of his books outlining what became known as the Cronquist system. In his system, Dr. Cronquist organized some 350 families of plants by their evolutionary relationships, describing which families are very closely related and which are more distantly related. The system has been the most widely used and accepted reference for botanists studying the evolution of plants for nearly 25 years. Wrote 'the Green Bible'
        In deciphering the relationships of the families of plants, Dr. Cronquist depended more on his intimate knowledge of many species of plants from field, museum and library studies than on the high-powered computer technology or statistics more popular among his younger colleagues.
        He also wrote the "Manual of Vascular Plants of the Northeastern United States and Adjacent Canada" (Scientific Publications), known as the Green Bible. The manual is a key that allows a person to identify flowering plants or ferns from the region and is the basis for many popular field guides. His two introductory botany textbooks, as well as the manual, are widely used by botany students.
        Dr. Cronquist was also a recognized expert on the plants of the Western United States. He wrote or contributed to nearly all the major works on plants of the region and was at work on a six-volume series about the plants of the intermountain West when he died. He was also an expert on the sunflower family, one of the largest families of flowering plants in the world.
        Dr. Cronquist was born in San Jose, Calif. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Utah State University and received his doctorate from the University of Minnesota.
        After completing his graduate studies, Dr. Cronquist was an assistant curator at the New York Botanical Garden for two years. He taught at the University of Georgia and the State College of Washington (now Washington State University). He later returned to the New York Botanical Garden, becoming director of botany and finally senior scientist. He was also an adjunct professor at Columbia University and the City University of New York for more than a decade.
        He received the Leidy Medal of the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia, the Asa Gray Award from the American Society of Plant Taxonomists and the Linnean Medal for Botany from the Linnean Society of London. Dr. Cronquist also served as president of the Botanical Society of America and the American Society of Plant Taxonomists.
        He is survived by his wife, Mabel; two children, John of Placentia, Calif., and Elizabeth Crowe of Morrison, Colo., and four grandchildren.
      