
        Dr. Harry M. Orlinsky, the Effie Wise Ochs Professor of Biblical Literature at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, died on Saturday at North Oaks Retirement Community in Owings Mills, Md. He was 84 years old and had lived in Manhattan until several months ago.
        He died of cancer, said Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, president of the college-institute.
        Dr. Orlinsky was a member of a committee that produced the 1952 Revised Standard Version of the Bible, the official Bible of the Protestant movement in America. Dr. Gottschalk noted yesterday that Dr. Orlinksy was the only Jewish scholar to be invited into the group.
        Dr. Orlinksy was asked again to join a translation committee that served as co-authors of the New Revised Standard Version of the Bible, which major Protestant churches introduced in 1990. Again, Dr. Orlinsky was the only Jewish member of a group made up of the Protestant and Orthodox denominations represented in the National Council of Churches, as well as Roman Catholics.
        The Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute honored Dr. Orlinsky with the Dr. Bernard Heller Prize last year at its New York school, citing his role in establishing an interdisciplinary approach of archeology, philology, comparative linguistics and comparative religion in the study of the Bible.
        A native of Owen Sound, Ontario, he graduated from the University of Toronto and held a Ph.D. from Dropsie University in Philadelphia. He was a fellow at Hebrew University in Jerusalem in the mid-1930's and then, until 1944, a professor at Baltimore Hebrew College.
        Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, the founder of the Jewish Institute of Religion, asked Dr. Orlinsky in 1943 to join the faculty of the institute in New York, which merged in 1950 with Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati to form Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion.
        The Israeli Government recruited Dr. Orlinsky in 1954 to authenticate four Dead Sea Scrolls being offered for sale. He pored over them in a Manhattan bank vault, using a pseudonym to mask the Israeli connection, and called an unlisted number to give the code word to indicate that the scrolls were the genuine article.
        Dr. Orlinsky wrote extensively. He was the author of "Ancient Israel" (Cornell University, 1954), "Understanding the Bible Through History and Archaeology" (Ktav Publishing House, 1969) and "Essays in Biblical and Jewish Culture and Bible Translation" (Ktav, 1973).
        He served for many years as editor in chief of "The New Translation of the Torah" for the Jewish Publication Society of America, He also was a past president of the Society of Biblical Literature and was a founder and past president of the International Organization for Septuagint and Cognate Studies and of the International Organization for Masoretic Studies.
        He is survived by his wife, Donya, of Baltimore; two sons, Walter, also of Baltimore, and S. Zeke, of Columbia, Md., and three grandchildren.
      