
        C. V. Wood Jr., a pioneer developer of theme parks who planned and supervised the creation of Disneyland and the moving of the London Bridge to Arizona, died Saturday at St. Joseph Hospital in Houston. He was 71 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of lung cancer, a family spokeswoman said.
        Disneyland, as a new form of family entertainment, became the prototype for amusement theme parks around the world. Disneyland Project
        Walt Disney placed Mr. Wood in charge of the project as a vice president and general manager. He was Disneyland's first employee and supervised its site selection in California, the land purchase, the construction, the opening in 1954 and its operation for the first year.
        Leaving Disney in 1956, he formed Marco Engineering, a consulting firm for the leisure industry. It supervised the creation of the first Six Flags Adventure park, in Arlington, Tex., and Pleasure Island in Boston.
        In 1961 Mr. Wood's firm merged with the McCulloch Corporation. There, he worked on urban developments and in 1968 undertook his most novel project, when Robert P. McCulloch bought the London Bridge. Under Mr. Woods' supervision, it was dismantled stone by stone, shipped to Lake Havasu City, Ariz., and reassembled. Despite skepticism, it became successful tourist attraction. He retired in 1980 as chairman and chief executive of McCulloch's oil division.
        After joining Lorimar Telepictures in 1987, he worked on its merger with Time Warner, which then appointed him to lead its entry into the studio-tour business. That assignment culminated in Warner's opening of Movie World in Australia last year. At his death, Mr. Wood was president of Warner's Recreational Enterprises Division and was working on Movie World's expansion to other countries.
        Not all his ventures succeeded. The Freedomland park in the Bronx went bankrupt in 1964 and part of the site was used to build Co-op City.
        Cooking chili was a hobby Mr. Wood turned into an institution. With the racing-car driver Carroll Shelby, he founded the International Chili Society, which sponsors more than 400 cooking contests around the world yearly with profits donated to charity.
        He was a chairman of the Committee of Publicly Owned Companies, representing 650 companies traded on the New York and American stock exchanges. He cofounded the Mind Science Foundation and was a trustee of the Stehlin Foundation for Cancer Research and the Southwest Research Institute.
        He was born in Woods County, Okla., and grew up in Amarillo, Tex. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma, where he majored in petroleum engineering. During and after World War II he was chief industrial engineer for the Convair Corporation.
        Surviving are his wife, movie actress Joanne Dru; a son, C. V. 3d; a daughter, Deborah; three stepchildren, and eight grandchildren.
      