
        David Stone Martin, a prolific illustrator who drew more than 400 album covers and created covers for Time magazine and many other works, died on Friday at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. He was 78 years old and lived in New London.
        He died of pneumonia, family members said.
        Mr. Martin's work is included in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, the Art Institute of Chicago and the Smithsonian Institution. He won numerous awards from the Society of Illustrators and the Art Directors Clubs of New York City, Boston and Detroit.
        His diverse pieces included illustrations for books and numerous posters, billboards and advertisements for film, television and the theater, including the Lincoln Center Repertory Theater productions of the 1960's and 1970's.
        But his biggest contribution was in album covers, primarily those of jazz musicians, which grew out of his fondness for the music and his friendship with Mary Lou Williams, the pianist and composer. All-Star Jazz Gallery
        His album portraits, mostly done in distinctive heavy black-ink lines, included likenesses of Stan Getz, Count Basie, Charlie Parker, Billie Holiday, Art Tatum, John Coltrane, Ella Fitzgerald, Dizzy Gillespie, Jelly Roll Morton and Duke Ellington. Mr. Martin did nearly all the covers for the Asch, Clef and Jazz at the Philharmonic labels of the 1940's and 1950's.
        "He was essentially the first to develop an independent, serious image of jazz" and provided "an intimate insight into the music and life of jazz people," said Martina Schmitz, an art historian and musician who once assembled an exhibition of his work at Lincoln Center.
        For Time, his cover portraits included Robert F. Kennedy, Eugene J. McCarthy, Mao Zedong and George C. Wallace. He also worked for Time's sister publication, Life.
        He was born in Chicago and studied at the Art Institute there. During the 1930's and 1940's he worked for Government agencies, as supervisor of mural projects of the Federal Artists Project, art director for the Tennessee Valley Authority, graphic arts director for the Office of Strategic Services and art director for the Office of War Information, where he was a colleague and friend of Ben Shahn, the artist.
        He was previously married and divorced. He is survived by his wife, the former Cheri Landry; two sons, both artists, Stefan, of East Windsor, N.J., and Tony, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Rio Parfrey of Santa Ana, Calif.; a sister, Grace Johnson of Evanston, Ill., 12 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      