
        Richard Brooks, a director, producer and screenwriter whose films included "The Blackboard Jungle," "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" and "Looking for Mr. Goodbar," died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 79 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said his physician, Dr. Leonard Schwartzman.
        Mr. Brooks was known for hard-hitting dramatic films that sometimes addressed social themes, and for his skillful adaptation of literary material for the screen. 'It All Has to Do With a Story'
        In an interview late in his career he said he thought of himself as a writer first and foremost. "Directing is only writing with a camera," he said. "Editing is writing. Scoring is writing. It all has to do with a story, how to tell a story."
        Mr. Brooks was born in Philadelphia and attended Temple University. After working as a sports reporter for The Philadelphia Record, he became a news writer, announcer and commentator for NBC radio in New York.
        In 1940, he moved to Los Angeles, where he wrote for radio and began collaborating on screenplays for such B films as "White Savage" (1943) and "Cobra Woman" (1944).
        After serving in the Marine Corps during World War II, he returned to screenwriting, collaborating on "Key Largo" (1948), starring Humphrey Bogart and Edward G. Robinson. In 1950, he directed his first film, "Crisis," a political thriller starring Cary Grant and Jose Ferrer and the first of many films he made for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer before becoming an independent producer in 1965. In 1952, he directed "Deadline U.S.A.," a taut drama starring Humphrey Bogart as a reporter.
        The film that established Mr. Brooks as a directing talent was "The Blackboard Jungle" (1955), a powerful drama about violence in an American high school. The screenplay, which he co-wrote, was nominated for an Academy Award.
        In 1960, Mr. Brooks received an Academy Award for his screenplay for "Elmer Gantry," which starred Burt Lancaster as a fast-talking tent preacher. The same year, he married Jean Simmons, Mr. Lancaster's co-star in the film. He and Miss Simmons were divorced in 1976. On Time and Under Budget
        A product of the studio system, Mr. Brooks was known for bringing his films in on time and under budget, with a working day that began at 9 A.M. and ended at 5 P.M.
        For M-G-M, he also made "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" (1958), "The Last Hunt" (1956), "The Brothers Karamazov" (1958) and "Sweet Bird of Youth" (1962).
        As an independent producer, he directed "Lord Jim" (1965), "The Professionals" (1966) and "In Cold Blood" (1967), based on the book by Truman Capote about the murder of a family in Kansas. His screenplay for the movie was nominated for an Academy Award.
        A string of box-office failures in the 1970's, notably "Dollars" (1971) and "Bite the Bullet" (1975), brought him to the edge of bankruptcy, but in 1977 he scored a commercial and critical success with "Waiting for Mr. Goodbar," starring Diane Keaton as a young woman who is killed by a stranger she meets in a singles bar.
        Mr. Brooks wrote three novels, "The Brick Foxhole" (1945), "The Boiling Point" (1948) and "The Producer" (1951), an insider's look at Hollywood.
        He is survived by a daughter, Kate Brooks of Riverside, Calif., and a stepdaughter, Tracy Granger of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  March 14, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Richard Brooks, a director, producer and screenwriter, referred incorrectly at one point to one of his films. It is "Looking for Mr. Goodbar," as noted earlier in the article.
      