
        Eve Merriam, an award-winning poet, playwright and author of more than 50 books for adults and children, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Merriam's work ranged from light-hearted verse, to an Obie-winning musical about sexism, to a theater piece on pioneer women presented at the White House, to poems on inner-city poverty that spurred calls to ban the book from schools and libraries. Honors From Teachers
        Most of her books were poetry, fiction and nonfiction for children, and her work was honored by the National Council of Teachers of English. Her work included "It Doesn't Always Have to Rhyme" (Atheneum, 1964), "Blackberry Ink" (Morrow, 1985) and "Halloween ABC" (Macmillian, 1986).
        Her musical "The Club," was staged by Tom O'Horgan in 1976. It portrayed men in a private club making derogatory remarks about women -- with the men played by actresses.
        "Out of Our Fathers' House," her portrayal of prominent American women like Elizabeth Cady Stanton, was presented at the White House in 1978 and shown on public television's "Great Performances" series.
        Her book of urban poems, "The Inner City Mother Goose" (Simon & Schuster, 1969), drew attacks from a judge, police officials and others who said it glamorized crime and denigrated people with lines like "Run, run father, go away; Welfare worker is due today." She defended the book as misunderstood; others praised its realism. Feminism Was a Theme
        Feminism was an early and recurring theme in her works, including "After Nora Slammed the Door: the Women's Unfinished Revolution" (World, 1964) and a children's book, "Mommies At Work" (Knopf, 1960). For CBS television she wrote "We the Women" the first network documentary on women's rights. She worked on programs to eliminate sexism in schools in Minneapolis and Connecticut.
        Her word play and social commentary often displayed incisive wit. Her book "Figleaf" (Lippincott, 1960) punctured the fashion industry with a glossary of garment gab that defined exclusive as "a product offered to the broadest possible mass market" and timeless as "a style that remains fashionable for more than one season."
        Born in Philadelphia with the given name Eva Moskovitz, she grew up enjoying Gilbert and Sullivan, reciting poetry and writing her own verses. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937.
        Under the pen name of Eve Merriam, she held a variety of jobs in the 1940's, including that of an advertising writer, a CBS radio script writer, and a poetry program host on WQXR. Her first published book of poems, "Family Circle" (Yale University, 1946) won Yale's Younger Poets Prize, and in 1949 she won a Collier's prize for fiction. Taught Short-Story Writing
        She taught short-story and critical writing at City College for four years in the 1960's and dramatic writing at New York University for several years in the 1980's.
        She served on the Tony nominating committee and was an officer of the Dramatists Guild and Authors League.
        Two of her books will be published this fall, and she recently finished a series of poems with musical background.
        Her fourth husband, Oscar-winning screenwriter Waldo Salt, died in 1987. Her prior marriages ended in divorce. Surviving are two sons, Dee Michel of Los Angeles and Guy Michel of Brooklyn; a brother, Lou Martin of Wyncote, Pa., and a sister, Helen Abramson of North Miami Beach.
      