
        Aaron Bohrod, a noted realist painter, died on Friday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 84 years old.
        He died of liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Bohrod's work appeared widely, in magazines, galleries, museums and even the White House. He won numerous prizes and two Guggenheim fellowships. For 25 years he was artist in residence at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.
        His subjects ranged from the urban street scenes of his native Chicago to the rural settings of Wisconsin and the fighting on Omaha Beach in World War II. In later years he specialized in precisely detailed trompe l'oeil paintings. They were so realistic that they were exhibited with do-not-touch signs. A Loan to the White House
        President Harry S. Truman so admired a Bohrod painting in a Senator's office that he requested its loan to the White House. The work portrayed a girl waiting for a train by the tracks in a small town.
        After training at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Art Students League in Manhattan, Mr. Bohrod was artist in residence at Southern Illinois University in 1941.
        Working in the War Art Unit of the Army and later as an artist correspondent for Life magazine, he sketched and painted battle scenes in the Pacific and Europe.
        In 1948 he went to the University of Wisconsin. He retired there in 1973 but continued painting until a few weeks ago.
        His works were shown nationally and abroad, including at the Metropolitan, Whitney and Brooklyn museums in New York City.
        His work also appeared in Fortune, Look, Coronet, Esquire and Time, where his cover subjects included Frank Sinatra. He also did book illustrations, designed wallpaper and fabrics and created ceramics.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 63 years, the former Ruth Bush; two sons, Mark, of Corvallis, Ore., and Neil, of Madison; a daughter, Georgi Rothe of Carlsbad, Calif.; a brother, Milton, of Rochester; two sisters, Anne Kreitman of Deerfield, Fla., and Lillian Siegel of Las Vegas, Nev., and a granddaughter.
      