
        Peter Jay Sharp, a leading Manhattan hotelier and real-estate developer, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan and Edgartown, Mass.
        He died of melanoma, his family said.
        Mr. Sharp owned the Carlyle Hotel, at 35 East 76th Street in Manhattan. Among the developments he helped build, own and operate was the office tower at 450 Park Avenue at the southwest corner of 57th Street.
        He was born to a family of hoteliers. The Sharps ran Delmonico's, the Ritz Tower, the Stanhope and the Beaux Arts in Manhattan and the St. Francis in San Francisco. As a young man he worked as a dishwasher, busboy and wine steward. Salesman of the Year
        He left the family business in 1958 to join the Douglas L. Elliman Company, a prominent real-estate brokerage and manager of high-priced apartment buildings in Manhattan. He became the salesman of the year there.
        In the early 1960's Mr. Sharp left briefly to form his own company. Then he returned to Elliman, whose chairman picked him to be its leader. In 1964 Mr. Sharp bought Elliman. He later sold it to the Abacus Fund, of which he became chairman and chief executive.
        In 1966 he led the developing of a 28-story office building, which became his headquarters, at 1370 Sixth Avenue at the southeast corner of 56th Street.
        Resuming his interest in hotels the next year, he bought the Carlyle, at 76th Street and Madison Avenue. Its guests have included Presidents Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson and foreign heads of state. Mr. Sharp converted part of the Carlyle into cooperatives. Gotham to Beverly Wilshire
        In 1970, he led a hotel partnership that included his mother in buying the Saranac Inn in the Adirondacks, the Gotham Hotel in Manhattan and the Beverly Wilshire in Los Angeles.
        That same year he won a zoning exemption for a skyscraper apartment building on 88th Street between Park and Madison. Although a new zoning law sharply restricted the height of buildings in the Carnegie Hill neighborhood, he had already started his project and was allowed to complete it. He also owned the Mayfair apartments at 15 West 72d Street and in 1980 converted them to cooperatives.
        In the early 1970's he assembled properties on Broadway between 45th and 46th Streets for a hotel designed by John Portman as part of the Times Square renewal. Those hotel plans were snagged by legal and financial problems but were later revived as the Marriott Marquis.
        Mr. Sharp was also a moving force in the restructurings of the Chicago Milwaukee Corporation, a former railroad company; and Avatar Holdings, formerly GAC, which owned utilities and real estate in Florida, Arizona and California.
        He was a past chairman of the New York City Opera and was due to become chairman of the Julliard School in June. He also served on the boards of the Fund for Better Subway Stations, the International Center for the Disabled, the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the Vivian Beaumont Theater, the City Center and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He also created the Peter Jay Sharp Foundation.
        Mr. Sharp was born in Manhattan. As a young man he worked briefly as a roughneck on oil rigs, served in the United States Navy in 1953-4 and graduated from Princeton.
        He became a noted collector of Old Master paintings. He also studied classical piano and performed recitals with the Colorado String Quartet.
        He was married for 20 years to the former Margaret Allison Hagner, a great-great-granddaughter of John A. Roebling, the designer of the Brooklyn Bridge. The couple divorced in 1974.
        Surviving are his mother, Evelyn, of Manhattan; a son, Peter H. of Westport Point, Mass., and Providence, R.I.; two daughters, Caroline M. of Los Angeles and Randall A. of Manhattan; a sister, Mary S. Cronson of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 30, 1992, Thursday
        An obituary on April 18 about Peter Jay Sharp, a hotelier and developer, included an erroneous reference to his role in the Abacus Fund, supplied by Mr. Sharp's firm. He was a shareholder and director, not chairman and chief executive.
      