
        Dr. Gerald Feinberg, a physicist with diverse interests who taught at Columbia University for more than 30 years, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 58 years old.
        He died of cancer, his wife, Barbara Jane Feinberg, said.
        Dr. Feinberg joined the faculty at Columbia, his alma mater, in 1959, and became a full professor in 1965. He headed the physics department from 1980 to 1982. Nuclear Particle Research
        In 1958, he published a strong argument for the existence of two kinds of neutrinos, rather than the one variety then postulated. The neutrino is the most elusive of all nuclear particles. His reasoning implied that the neutrino produced in company with the radioactive decay that ejects an electron is different from the one emitted in company with the electron's heavier (and rarer) cousin, the muon.
        Later, in 1962, three of his colleagues at Columbia, Dr. Leon Lederman, Dr. Melvin Schwartz and Dr. Jack Steinberger, did an experiment that confirmed his prediction and won them a Nobel Prize.
        Dr. Feinberg was the author or co-author of books reflecting a variety of interests. They include "The Prometheus Project, Mankind's Search for Long-Range Goals" (1969), "What is the World Made Of?" (1977), "Consequences of Growth" (1977), "Solid Clues" (1985) and "Cosmological Constants" (1986). He also was the author or co-author of numerous scientific articles and several texts on physics and cosmology.
        Dr. Feinberg was instrumental in Columbia University's decision to admit women and, according to Dr. Schwartz, had a strong influence on the university's educational policy. He worked enthusiastically to increase the public's understanding of science. A Columbia Doctorate
        He obtained a bachelor's degree in 1953 at Columbia and a Columbia doctorate in 1957 under Dr. T. D. Lee, another Nobel laureate. Before joining the Columbia faculty he spent a year at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and from 1963 to 1964 was in England as an overseas fellow at Cambridge University's Churchill College.
        From 1973 to 1974, he was a Guggenheim Foundation Fellow and visiting professor at Rockefeller University. He also conducted research at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island and the Stanford Linear Accelerator in California.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children, Jeremy Russell Feinberg and Douglas Loren Feinberg, both students at Columbia; three sisters, Babette Inglehart, Rita Josephson and Harriet Bonfeld, and a brother, Norman Feinberg.
        A memorial service will be held on May 9 at 2 P.M. at St. Paul's Chapel, Columbia University.
      