
        Lord Havers, who as a prosecutor and Attorney General was involved in some of Britain's most controversial trials of the last 20 years, died on Wednesday in London. He was 69 years old.
        Lord Havers retired from Government service in 1987 because of ill health after serving only four months as Lord Chancellor, the highest-ranking legal office in England and Wales. As such, he had presided over the House of Lords.
        He served as Attorney General of Britain for eight years after being named to the post in 1979 by the newly elected Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher. When Mrs. Thatcher appointed him Lord Chancellor in 1987, he was made a baron.
        His son Nigel, a British television and film actor, said his father had been working at his private office in London on Wednesday when he became ill. He died later at a hospital. Lord Havers had undergone coronary bypass surgery in 1985 and again in 1987.
        Upon hearing of Lord Havers' death, Prime Minister John Major described him as a "a very great law officer."
        Robert Michael Oldfield Havers was born on March 10, 1923, the second son of Sir Cecil Havers, a barrister, and Enid Snelling. He attended Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and served as a lieutenant in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve. In 1949 he married Carol Elizabeth Lay.
        He became a member of the bar in 1948 and a Queen's Counsel in 1964. He was elected to the House of Commons in 1970, representing Wimbledon, and retained the seat for 17 years, until he was made a Baron.
        In 1972, he was named Solicitor General by Prime Minister Edward Heath and received a knighthood.
        As Solicitor General and later as Attorney General, Sir Michael Havers prosecuted two of the most famous bombing cases involving the Irish Republican Army. Appeals courts later ruled that defendants in both cases had been wrongfully convicted, in one case for the prosecution's withholding of evidence, and the defendants were released from prison.
        The debate over the two cases cast a cloud over a career in which Lord Havers had been celebrated for his skill as a prosecutor.
        Sir Michael was the prosecutor at the 1981 Old Bailey trial of Peter Sutcliffe, the serial killer of 13 women who was known as the Yorkshire Ripper. In 1982, in one of his most spectacular courtroom successes, Sir Michael got Hugh Hambledon, a Canadian economist, to confess under cross-examination that he had passed NATO secrets to the Soviet Union.
        It was also Sir Michael who decided in 1986 to prosecute Peter Wright, a former British counterespionage agent, on charges of violating the Official Secrets Act by writing a book about his experiences. The book, "Spycatcher," became a best-seller in the United States and Sir Michael's attempts to block its publication in Britain and Australia ultimately failed to the embarrassment of Mrs. Thatcher's Government.
        He was also a co-author of several books, including "The Poisoned Life of Mrs. Maybrick," "The Royal Baccarat Scandal" (which was adapted into a play) and "Tragedy in Three Voices."
        In 1981, the I.R.A. bombed his home in Wimbledon. Sir Michael and his family were on vacation in Spain at the time and press reports later said he informed his wife of the incident by saying, "Darling, we seem to have had a slight accident at home."
        Lord Havers is survived his wife, Lady Carol, and his sons, Nigel and Philip.
      