
        Samuel Reshevsky, the Polish-born chess prodigy and grandmaster who astounded the world with his feats as a boy and dominated American chess for nearly four decades, died on Saturday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Mr. Reshevsky, who had been semi-retired for many years but still appeared occasionally at tournaments and exhibitions, died of a heart attack, said Rabbi Harvey Waxman of Congregation Beth Medrosh in Monsey, N.Y., who presided at a funeral on Sunday at Congregation Kehilath Israel in Spring Valley.
        From the moment he sailed into New York Harbor on Nov. 3, 1920, an 8-year-old prodigy in blond curls and a sailor suit, little Sammy Reshevsky was the sensation of American chess. From that time until Jan. 7, 1958, when he was eclipsed by the 14-year-old Bobby Fischer, he was the top name in American chess. The Enchanted Early Years
        As a child, he first dazzled the capitals and courts of Europe, then amazed Americans with triumphant coast-to-coast tours, taking on and setting down 40 to 75 opponents at a time. He emerged as a major celebrity of the 1920's, dallying in Hollywood with Charlie Chaplin, Jackie Coogan and other stars and enchanting millionaires by defeating them in their living rooms.
        As an adult, he won the United States Chess Championship seven times, scored spectacular victories in international tournaments and defeated many of the world's top players, including the fabled Jose Raoul Capablanca in 1935 and, in 1955, Mikhail Botvinnik, who was the reigning Soviet and world champion.
        It was by almost any measure a stunningly successful career. By any measure, that is, except the one that counted most: the standard of expectation set by Mr. Reshevsky's own precocity, with its seemingly certain promise that he would some day win the world championship. He never did.
        From the moment Mr. Fischer began his skyrocketing ascent, Mr. Reshevsky was all but forgotten by the broad American public, which has never had room for more than one chess hero at a time. He played with diminishing frequency and success in major tournaments then, and made his living as an investment analyst and insurance salesman.
        But in a game where a grandmaster is often past prime at 45, over the hill at 50 and into dotage at 55, Mr. Reshevsky was a stalwart. His game was fading, but still showed flashes of brilliance. He won his last American championship in 1971 at the age of 59. In 1981, at 69, he was a finalist among Americans seeking to qualify for the world championship matches. And in 1984, at 72, he tied for first place in the Reykjavik International Tournament, his last world-class showing. No Games on the Sabbath
        Samuel Herman Rzeszewski, as his name was spelled until 1924, was born on Nov. 26, 1911, in Ozorkow, Poland, where his mother and father, a one-time linen merchant in nearby Lodz, were Orthodox Jews. Even before learning chess, the youngster acquired a devotion to his religion that never lapsed, and for a generation nothing in the world of chess was as certain as the knowledge that he would not play on the Sabbath.
        There was always intense interest in how the boy had come by his talent and learned the game. When Schmulke, as he was known, was 5 years old, his father, a good amateur player, showed him the moves. A few weeks later, the boy interrupted one of his father's games and told him he was about to make a bad move. Thereupon, Schmulke took over, won the game and was on his way.
        He made his first appearance in Vienna in 1918, when he was 6, but it was not until two years later, under the supervision of the first of many managers, that he staged his first grand tour of European capitals. He faced dozens of top players in simultaneous exhibitions and won acclaim as the "boy wonder of chess."
        Young Reshevsky, his parents and manager sailed for America in 1920, and in a week the boy had laid the foundation of his American legend. Taking on 20 top faculty players at the United States Military Academy at West Point at once, he quickly beat 19, including the head of the mathematics department, giving up one grudging draw, and overnight became the most famous player in the country.
        A few days later he met Frank J. Marshall, the reigning American champion, and was shown three mind-boggling chess problems. It took the boy 3 minutes and 25 seconds to solve them, a record, said Mr. Marshall, who gave the boy a gold medal and the imprimatur of the American chess establishment.
        Wealthy sponsors flocked to assist him, underwriting his education and his tours, on which he dazzled the country, outdoing his European record. He lost only 8 of 1,500 games and touched off a competition among cities eager to win him as a permanent resident, but after ending his tour in Hollywood, young Reshevsky returned to New York. Speculation About the Future
        In a year's absence he had learned to speak English fluently. When his teachers expressed amazement at his ability to master difficult texts and math problems on sight, there was speculation about his future as a scholar or financier. But he continued to play chess.
        Making his debut as a tournament player two weeks before his 11th birthday, he finished well back in the field, but won the brilliancy prize in defeating David Janowski, the French champion and the first major international master to fall to the prodigy. "I felt like running home I was so happy," the boy said.
        He continued to give exhibitions, but a late-night appearance in 1922 got him in trouble with child welfare officials. It was the end of his career as a professional prodigy. He dropped chess and finished high school in Detroit, where his family was welcomed into a community of wealthy chess buffs, and the University of Chicago School of Business, where he studied accounting.
        Mr. Reshevsky turned back to chess after graduation in 1933 and found his game had not suffered. He was a whirlwind on the international circuit in 1934, scoring impressive victories in his first three outings and later posting a brilliant victory over Capablanca, a former world champion.
        Entering his first United States championship in 1936, he won handily, and put a virtual lock on the title in successive defenses in 1938, 1940 and 1942. He passed up the tournament in 1944, but reclaimed the title in 1946. He won it twice more, in 1969 and 1971.
        In 1948, as one of the world's five top players, Mr. Reshevsky played in a round robin in Amsterdam to choose a successor to Alexander A. Alekhine, the world champion who had died in 1946. But the best he could do was a third-place tie with Paul Keres, behind Vasily Smyslov, who finished second, and Mr. Botvinnik, who claimed the title.
        He then announced his retirement from active play, but was soon drawn back. In a series of matches he defeated Miguel Najdorf, the Polish-born Argentine grandmaster, and was acclaimed champion of the free world.
        In 1955, in one of his most impressive victories, he beat Mr. Botvinnik. The victory made him a hero in the Soviet Union; he was mobbed by autograph seekers in Moscow and was presented to Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader.
        Three years later, Bobby Fischer won the United States championship, and the nation had a new hero. In 1961, Mr. Reshevsky and Mr. Fischer squared off for a 16-game match, but after 11 games -- with the score tied 5 1/2 to 5 1/2 and the players increasingly irritated with one another's quirks and mannerisms -- Mr. Fischer walked out and the match was awarded to Mr. Reshevsky by default.
        Although Mr. Reshevsky continued to be a fierce competitor, Mr. Fischer went on to win the world championship from Boris Spassky in 1972. Mr. Reshevsky, who wrote the chess column for The New York Times for part of that year, analyzed the games for The Times.
        He played less as the years went by, increasingly devoting himself to his religion, classical music and his family in Spring Valley, where he had settled in 1950.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Norma Mindick, a son, Joel, and two daughters, Sylvia and Malki, all of Spring Valley.
      