
        Olivier Messiaen, one of the most important and influential French composers of the 20th century, died in his sleep on Monday evening at the Beaujon Hospital in Paris. He was 83 years old and lived in Paris.
        A spokesman for the French Culture Ministry said that Mr. Messiaen died after surgery.
        Mr. Messiaen (pronounced mess-YAHNH) was a prolific and distinctive composer who sought to capture in music both the beauty of the natural world and the spiritual secrets of Roman Catholic mysticism. The style he created in a compositional career that lasted more than six decades drew on everything from bird song -- he is said to have quoted the songs of more than 250 species in his works -- to Indian and Balinese rhythmic modes, as well as more conventional forms of Western chromaticism and Serial techniques.
        He deployed these elements with an extraordinary sense of color and texture, and he contributed major works to virtually every part of the concert repertory. His "Apparition de l'Eglise Eternelle" (1932) and "Nativite du Seigneur" (1935) are centerpieces of the contemporary organ literature. And his piano works, most notably the "Vingt Regards sur l'Enfant Jesus" (1944) and the "Catalogue d'Oiseaux" (1959) demanded that pianists stretch both their techniques and their imaginations to come to terms with the music's combination of spirituality and overt pictorialism.  Innovative Combinations
        Mr. Messaien's orchestral works, including "L'Ascension" (1933), the monumental "Turangalila-Symphonie" (1949) and "Et Exspecto Resurectionem Mortuorum" (1965), and the nature-inspired "Des Canyons aux Etoiles" (1974) were grandly scaled and rich in innovative instrumental combinations that made them evocative beyond the normal bounds of contemporary musical language. And although his one opera, the five-hour "St. Francis of Assisi," was regarded as flawed when it had its premiere in 1983, it has its adherents, among them the conductors Seiji Ozawa and Kent Nagano.
        His final large-scale work, a 90-minute orchestral piece, "Eclairs sur l'Au-Dela" ("Reflections on the Hereafter"), was commissioned by the New York Philharmonic as part of its 150th-anniversary celebration. Mr. Messiaen completed the 11-movement score last October. It is to be given its world premiere by the Philharmonic, conducted by Zubin Mehta, on Nov. 5.
        Although Mr. Messiaen gravitated toward increasingly large structures in the last decades of his life, his best-known and most frequently played work is a chamber piece, the "Quartet for the End of Time." Mr. Messiaen composed the work in 1940, when he was a prisoner in a German stalag in Silesia. Using the instruments available to him -- violin, clarinet, cello and piano -- he created a work that described the Apocalypse, in both its terrifying and Heavenly manifestations. The work, with Mr. Messiaen playing the piano, had its premiere before an audience of 5,000 prisoners.  Arts-Oriented Parents
        "Mr. Messiaen's peculiar method has always enabled him to compose brilliant pages," Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times in 1986, "especially those in which great percussive climaxes clash with sudden tendrils of Webernesque sound. He has been a master manipulator of the metallic sonorities that have appealed so strongly to composers ever since Stravinsky's 'Rite of Spring' first startled the world in 1913. He also has been an ingenious experimenter with complex rhythms and advanced devices of Serialism, attributes that give his music a special cachet with other musicians especially, whether he is working with full orchestra, chamber group or keyboard instrument."
        Olivier Messiaen was born in Avignon on Dec. 10, 1908. His father, Pierre, was a professor of literature who translated the complete works of Shakespeare into French. His mother, Cecile Sauvage, was a poet. He began to compose when he was 7 years old, and entered the Paris Conservatory in 1919. His teachers included Jean and Noel Gallon and Paul Dukas for composition, and Marcel Dupre for organ and improvisation. His Preludes for Piano (1929), composed at the Conservatory during his student years, are among his earliest works still performed.
        After he completed his studies, in 1930, Mr. Messiaen became the principal organist at the Church of the Trinity in Paris, a position he held until the early 1970's. He began teaching in 1936, when he joined the faculty of the Ecole Normale de Musique; his career was interrupted by the outbreak of World War II in 1939. He joined the French army, and was taken prisoner in 1940.
        Mr. Messiaen was repatriated in 1942, and began teaching harmony at the Paris Conservatory. One of his early students was Pierre Boulez. "To study with him," Mr. Boulez later wrote, "was as if one were withdrawing oneself from the mass and electing for obstinacy." Even then, Mr. Boulez recalled, Mr. Messiaen was interested in the music of Asia and Africa, and he explored that fascination in his classes. Mr. Messiaen's students included the German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen, the Greek-born French composer Iannis Xenakis, and more recently, the young British composer George Benjamin.  Married a Pianist
        Another of Mr. Messiaen's early students was the pianist Yvonne Loriod, whom he married in 1961, two years after the death of his first wife, Claire Delbos. Miss Loriod and her sister Jeanne are still considered among the most authoritative performers of Mr. Messiaen's music. Both participated in the New York Philharmonic's 1988 performances of the "Turangalila-Symphonie," which Mr. Mehta conducted in honor of the composer's 80th birthday.
        In the 1940's and 50's Mr. Messiaen also taught composition and analysis, in Saarbrucken and Darmstadt, Germany, in Budapest and at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. His classes were legendary for their scope. He was as likely to analyze Indian rhythmic cycles, Greek modes or varieties of birdsong as the major works of Beethoven or the Serial works of the Second Viennese school. All these techniques were part of his compositional arsenal. In 1944 he explained his style in a treatise titled "Technique de Mon Langage Musical."
        By the late 1940's, Mr. Messiaen's music was attracting considerable international attention. Serge Koussevitzky commissioned "Turangalila" in 1946, and Leonard Bernstein conducted the Boston Symphony in the premiere in 1949. Among his works of the 1950's was a series inspired by the bird songs he had been jotting down since childhood. These included "Reveil des Oiseaux" (1953), "Oiseaux Exotiques" (1956) and the seven-volume "Catalogue d'Oiseaux."
        Mr. Messiaen also found inspiration in his travels. After he visited Japan with his wife in 1962, he composed "Sept Haikai" for piano and orchestra, which Mr. Boulez and Yvonne Loriod first performed in 1963. Nearly a decade later, Mr. Messiaen was inspired to write "Des Canyons aux Etoiles" after a visit to Bryce Canyon in Utah. The state reciprocated by naming one of its mountain peaks Mount Messiaen.  Received Many Honors
        He has never lacked for official honors or commissions. His "Et Exspecto Resurrectionem Mortuorum" was commissioned by the French Government to honor the dead of the two world wars; Charles de Gaulle attended its premiere in 1965. In 1967, he was elected a member of the French Institute, and the same year, a piano competition named for him was established at the Royan Festival, in southwest France. He was awarded the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, the Grand Cross of the National Order of Merit, and was a Commander of Arts and Letters.
        He is survived by Miss Loriod and by a son, Pascal, from his first marriage.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Messiaen refused to commit himself to a single contemporary compositional school, but drew freely from them all, including electronic music. "When I hear music," he once said, "I see colors, not through my eyes, but through my intellect."
        In a 1988 interview in The Times, he looked back on his some of his early music and offered a simple assessment.
        "No, I am not like Samuel Beckett, who says, 'Oh my God, I was such an idiot in that period, and I wrote such nonsense at the other time.' I always hear what I have written as a part of myself given sincerely, and it remains a part of me because it is a place where I have lived."  Songs of the Spirit And of Birds
        Olivier Messiaen's colorful, evocative works have many champions among performers, and most of his major scores have been recorded several times. These are some of Mr. Messiaen's compositions available on compact disk.
        "Apparition de l'Eglise Eternelle," Marie-Claire Alain, organist (Erato)
        "Catalogue des Oiseaux," Peter Hill, pianist (Unicorn-Kanchana)
        "Couleurs de la Cite Celeste," "Des Canyons aux Etoiles" and "Oiseaux Exotiques," London Sinfonietta, Esa-Pekka Salonen, conductor (Sony)
        "La Nativite du Seigneur" and "Le Banquet Celeste," Jennifer Bate, organist (Unicorn-Kanchana)
        "Quartet for the End of Time," Chamber Music Northwest (Delos) or Tashi (RCA)
        "Turangalila-Symphonie," Philharmonia Orchestra, Esa-Pekka Salonen, conductor (Sony)
        "Vingt Regards sur l'Enfant Jesus," Roger Muraro, pianist (Arts and Electronics/MCA)
        "Visions de l'Amen," Martha Argerich and Alexandre Rabinovitch, pianists (Angel)
      