
        Dr. John Joseph Weber, emeritus professor of clinical psychiatry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, died on Sunday near his home in Connecticut. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan and Deep River, Conn.
        A statement by the college said he died of a heart attack while fishing.
        Dr. Weber received national and international recognition for his "outcome studies" in the 1950's and through the 1980's at Columbia, in which he methodically followed up the results of psychoanalysis to determine the degree of its success or failure for the patient.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Weber remained affiliated with the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, where he received his certificate of psychoanalytic medicine in 1950. He served as the center's director from 1976 to 1981. Taught at Columbia
        Dr. Weber, who was also in private practice in Manhattan, was appointed professor of clinical psychiatry in 1981 and continued to teach and do research at the Columbia center to the time of his death.
        A contributor of many scientific writings, Dr. Weber was the moving force behind the first English translation of Johannes Weyer's "De Praestigiis Daemonum", originally published in 1563. It was the work of a German physician, a seminal study of witchcraft and a rejection of the superstitions surrounding it.
        Sigmund Freud considered it one of the 10 most significant books ever written, but it took Dr. Weber 10 years to secure its publication in the United States. Translated by George Mora, it was published last year as "Witches, Devils and Doctors in Renaissance" by the department of medieval and Renaissance texts and studies at State University of New York, Binghamton.
        A native of Newark, Dr. Weber graduated from Duke University and Yale University Medical School. He was a resident in psychiatry at the Payne-Whitney Clinic, New York University-Cornell Medical Center. During World War II, he was a captain in the United States Army Medical Corps.  Studies on Schizophrenia
        His early neurological studies concerned schizophrenia. His work was cited as a landmark in the research on schizophrenia by the American Psychiatric Association in 1958.
        He was a director of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York and helped create its Mental Health Advisory Committee in 1985.
        His first wife, the former Clara F. Lloyd-Smith, died in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Helen Freeman; two daughters, Vanessa W. Rydholm of Teaneck, N.J., and Melissa F. Weber of Cambridge, Mass.; and a half-brother, Bruce J. Hector of Glen Rock, N.J.
      