
        Neville Brand, a World War II hero who capitalized on his rough-hewn features in dozens of tough-guy roles in movies and television, died Thursday at Sutter General Hospital in Sacramento, Calif. He was 71 years old and lived in Sacramento.
        A spokeswoman for the Sacramento County Coroner said Mr. Brand died of emphysema.
        Mr. Brand's best-known films were "Stalag 17" and "The Birdman of Alcatraz." On television, he won the Sylvania Award for playing in the lead role of Willie Stark in a 1958 version of "All the King's Men," a performance that a New York Times review called "tremendously effective."
        He also starred as a rowdy and occasionally bumbling Texas Ranger in the "Laredo" series in the late 1960's.
        Mr. Brand, who was born in Kewanee, Ill., joined the Army and served as a platoon sergeant in World War II and returned as the nation's fourth-most-decorated serviceman. His first attempt at acting was in a 1946 Army Signal Corps movie, with another aspiring actor named Charlton Heston.
        After the war Mr. Brand studied acting on the G.I. Bill and appeared Off-Broadway in New York. A Career of Hoodlums
        Moving to Hollywood, he made his film debut in 1950 as a hoodlum in "D.O.A." with Edmond O'Brien.
        He also starred in "Riot in Cell Block 11" and played Al Capone three times, in the films "The Scarface Mob" and "The George Raft Story" and on television's "The Untouchables." Among his many other films were "Cry Terror," "Tora! Tora! Tora!" and "Huckleberry Finn."
        His looks helped him get parts but also tended to stereotype his career. A sympathetic news article in 1963 said that "in 50 screen roles he has never been without a gun and has consistently been cast as a soldier or a gangster," a pattern that was being broken then with a new role as a spear-brandishing Viking.
        Mr. Brand is survived by his wife, Mae; three daughters, Mary Raymer of Dixon, Ill., Katrina Brand of San Diego and Michelle Beuttel of Sacramento; a brother, Bryce; two sisters, Babara Byrne and Louise Turngren, all of Illinois, and two grandchildren.
      