
        Dr. Frank M. Lapeyrolerie, a former dean of the dental school at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died on Tuesday at East Orange General Hospital in New Jersey. He was 62 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        He died of a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Lapeyrolerie started teaching at the Howard University College of Dentistry in 1958. In 1961 he joined the faculty of the Seton Hall College of Medicine and Dentistry and, in 1965, became chairman of oral surgery and anesthesia at the New Jersey Dental School. Dr. Lapeyrolerie was named dean of the dental school at the University of Medicine and Dentistry in 1979.
        He was born in Reserve, La. After graduating from Xavier University in New Orleans and the Howard dental school, he served in the Air Force and then trained in oral surgery at Harlem Hospital and the University of Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Lapeyrolerie resumed full-time private practice in 1986, working at the Central Parkway Association in East Orange, a medical and dental group practice that he founded in 1972.
        He was a member of the East Orange Board of Health and the Essex County Supreme Court Ethics Committee and president of the Newark Health Coalition and the Crossroads Health Plan. He was also on the advisory board of Midlantic Bank. Dr. Lapeyrolerie was also on the boards of the New Jersey Academy of Medicine, the Essex County Urban League, East Orange General Hospital, the Newark Health Council, the East Orange Regional Medical Program, the Progressive National Bank, Upsala College, the Newark Day Care Center and the East Orange Rent Stabilization Committee.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Delia Riddle; two sons, Dr. Daryl Lapeyrolerie of Tenafly, N.J., and Dr. Jacques Lapeyrolerie of Montclair; three daughters, Dr. Michele Lapeyrolerie-Torian of Manhattan, Dr. Donna Lapeyrolerie-Johnson of Laurel, Md., and Crystal, of Montclair; his mother, Marguerite, and a brother, Winthrop, both of Reserve, and six grandchildren.
      