
        Ralph E. Shikes, a publisher, an editor and the author of several books on art, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Lakeville, Conn.
        He died of cancer, said his wife, Ruth.
        As a writer, Mr. Shikes focused on the social and political aspects of art and caricature. "The Indignant Eye: The Artist as Social Critic in Prints and Drawings From the 15th Century to Picasso," was published in 1968. In 1983, with Steven Heller, he wrote "The Art of Satire: Painters as Caricaturists and Cartoonists, From Delacroix to Picasso." With Paula Harper, he wrote a 1980 biography of the French Impressionist painter Camille Pissarro. He contributed articles to The Nation and Art and Artist, lectured at universities and organized exhibitions of art with a social theme.
        Mr. Shikes was president of the Public Concern Foundation from 1975 to 1991. The foundation's primary activity is publishing The Washington Spectator, a biweekly national newsletter that reports on Government policy. In 1979 he established the Shikes Fellowship in Civil Liberties and Civil Rights at Harvard Law School.
        In the 1950's he and Samuel Chavkin were the co-founders of the Science and Medicine Publishing Company, which developed newspapers in different medical disciplines. The company was sold in 1968, but Mr. Shikes continued as president until 1973 before returning to his primary interests, art history and social concerns.
        Mr. Shikes was born on Sept. 20, 1912, in Boston and graduated from Harvard in 1933. In World War II, he served with the Army in the South Pacific. After the war he worked in book publishing and was public relations director of the National Citizens Political Action Committee. He worked in the same capacity for Henry Wallace's Progressive Party during the 1948 Presidential campaign. In the 1950's he edited "Slightly Out of Order," a collection of the work of European cartoonists, and, with Louis Untermeyer, "The Best Humor Annual."
        In addition to his wife, the former Ruth Collins, he is survived by two daughters, Katherine Fredman of South Bend, Ind., and Jennifer Shikes Haines of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a sister, Gladys Cole of Lincoln, Mass., and a brother, Melvin, of Sun City, Ariz.
      