
        Arthur C. Stern, a scientist and government official who pioneered in identifying air pollution as a major threat and in mobilizing efforts to combat it, died Friday at the Carolina Meadows Retirement Center in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Stern died of a heart attack, his family said.
        As a public health engineer, Mr. Stern conducted research on air pollution and helped to shape government regulations, and as an educator he later trained others.
        In the 1930's and 40's, when pollution was often viewed as merely a local annoyance of life in industrial centers, he warned that it posed dangerous consequences to the world's environment.
        "Contrary to popular belief, air is in limited supply and in real need of conservation," Mr. Stern said in 1955 when he was appointed director of air pollution research for the United States Public Health Service. Work in the New York Area
        Pollution was not only a health hazard to human beings, he said, but also damaged the global ecology of land, plants, animals and weather.
        He drafted New York City's 1949 air pollution control law, served 13 years as the chief industrial hygienist in the New York State Labor Department, worked for 13 years with the Federal Government and taught for a decade at the University of North Carolina. He retired in 1978.
        Dr. Donald Fox, a colleague at the university, said Mr. Stern developed its air pollution and industrial hygiene studies and was "absolutely the most well-known individual in the field of air pollution worldwide."
        Born in Petersburg, Va., Mr. Stern grew up in Yonkers. He graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology in 1930 and completed a master's degree in 1933 with a thesis on cinder and fly ash removal. In those early years he helped Hudson County, N.J., set up smoke regulations.
        From 1935 to 1937 he supervised an air quality survey for the New York City Health Department and the Federal Works Progress Administration. Crews collected thousands of samples and measured the soot, dust, acid gases, automobile exhausts and airborne bacteria. Urged Control Programs
        The resulting report, delivered to the American Public Health Association, urged new control programs. In the late 1940's he led a campaign for the Citizens Union that prompted the New York City Council to create a Smoke Control Board.
        At the Public Health Service, he was in charge of a $25 million study of pollution and helped foster controls by state and local governments. After seven years in charge of air pollution research at the Federal laboratory in Cincinnati, he became assistant director of the health service's National Center for Air Pollution Control.
        His many scientific articles and books, including the three-volume "Air Pollution," are considered important works in the field.
        He served as president of the Air Pollution Control Association, chairman of the Electric Power Research Institute Advisory Council and an adviser to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. He was honored by the Air and Waste Management Association, American Academy of Environmental Engineers and International Union of Air Pollution Prevention Associations.
        His first wife, the former Dorothy H., Anspacher, died in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Katherine B. Perlman; two sons, Richard C. Stern, of Lafayette, Calif., and Robert C. Stern, of Falls Church, Va., and a daughter, Elizabeth S. Greenwold of Washington.
      