
        George F. Dales Jr., an archeologist who helped unlock the mysteries of the ancient Indus River Valley civilization, died last Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 64 years old.
        He died from cancer, said an official of the University of California at Berkeley, where Dr. Dales was a professor of archeology.
        Dr. Dales spent 30 seasons at archeological sites, starting at Nippur, in southern Iraq, in 1957. More recently he excavated in the ancient Indus Valley, where a highly developed civilization flourished from about 4000 B.C. to 2000 B.C. in what is now Pakistan.
        Since 1985 he directed the Harappa Archeological Project, involving various universities and institutions. It is the only American team authorized by the Government of Pakistan to work at the site. An Archeological Trove
        Harappa, the site of several successive cities of the Indus civilization, was recognized in the 1920's as an archeological trove. The layered excavation lies on a dry river bed where the Ravi River once flowed in the Punjab.
        Before the Harappa project, Dr. Dales worked in the ruins of Mahenjo Daro near the bank of the Indus in West Pakistan, another example of human habitations built on top of one another.
        In both cases Dr. Dales had hoped to decipher language fragments from the world's third oldest developed culture, after Egypt's and Mesopotamia's. While the signs of a writing system are known, Dr. Dales and his colleagues have been unable to decipher the ancient writing.
        One of Dr. Dales's longstanding interests was the degree to which ancient civilizations in the Indus region were in touch with each other. In 1960 he made a coastal survey that showed archeological evidence of trade routes on the Makran coast of Pakistan. Specialist on Middle East
        Dr. Dales, a native of Akron, Ohio, served in the Marine Corps in China shortly after World War II. He graduated from the University of Akron and earned a Ph.D. at the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied the history, art and archeology of the ancient Middle East and the cuneiform scripts of the Sumerian, Akkadian and Hurrian languages.
        He was a faculty member of the University of Toronto and the University of Pennsylvania before joining the department of Middle Eastern studies at Berkeley in 1972. In 1979 he joined the university's department of South and Southeast Asian studies and was later its chairman.
        Dr. Dales wrote a book about the Mohendjo Daro excavations and was the author of a yet-to-be-published work about the Makran coast.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Bradley; two daughters, Georgia K. Shipman of West Grove, Pa., and Virginia S. Beebee of Alder Point, Calif.; two sisters, Constance Andrews of Orlando, Fla., and Cheryl King of Youngstown, Ohio, and a grandson.
      