
        Vakhtang Mikhailovich Chabukiani, a Soviet ballet master and choreographer and one of the great dancers of his generation, died on April 5 in Tbilisi, Georgia. He was 82 years old.
        He had had heart trouble for some time, The Independent reported in London.
        Mr. Chabukiani embodied the new Soviet hero in the ballet of the 1930's, combining virtuosic ballet technique with athleticism and a stunningly powerful, vivid stage presence. He originated lead roles in several signature Soviet ballets, among them Vasily Vainonen's "Flames of Paris" in 1932 and Rostislav Zakharov's "Fountain of the Bakhchisarai" in 1934. Also in 1934, he and Tatyana Vecheslova became the first Soviet dancers to tour in the United States.
        John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, dismissed the pieces that the two performed as "terrifically energetic," but described Mr. Chabukiani as "a swarthy young giant with a dashing manner and a facility for doing unbelievable technical tricks." "His leaps, his turns, his lifts are phenomenal," Mr. Martin continued.  Following His Lead
        Mr. Chabukiani's best-known ballets were "The Heart of the Hills," created in 1938 and set to music by Andrei Balanchivadze, the brother of George Balanchine, and "Laurencia," a 1939 work from which a dance for six was excerpted by Rudolf Nureyev and performed in the West by the Royal Ballet in 1965.
        Both, typical of their time and place, dealt with political uprisings of the lower classes. Both were choreographed for the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad, the company in which Mr. Chabukiani starred in the 1930's and early 1940's and where he created the male solos in "La Bayadere" that were the basis for the dancing of Mr. Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov in that ballet. Howard Thompson, in a New York Times review of a 1964 film version of Mr. Chabukiani's "Othello," described it as "Shakespeare with electricity."
        Mr. Chabukiani was born in Tbilisi of poor parents and was a toy maker before becoming involved with ballet at the suggestion of the Italian ballerina Maria Perrini, who gave him his first ballet lessons. He danced in productions at the Tbilisi opera house from 1926 to 1929, when he began night studies at the Leningrad Choreographic School. He was soon transferred to the more demanding day classes. He joined the Kirov (then the State Academic Theater for Opera and Ballet) in 1929 and became a leading dancer in two years, making a name for himself in such classics as "Giselle" and "Swan Lake" as well as in "Don Quixote," "Taras Bulba" and "La Bayadere."
        Mr. Chabukiani spent the war years in Tbilisi working with the Georgian National Ballet, to which he returned for five years in 1967 and where he continued to serve as a teacher and ballet master. A quiet but temperamental man with a witty sense of humor, Mr. Chabukiani was honored last year with a benefit at the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow.
      