
        James H. Bell, a vice president of District 65 of the United Auto Workers who was active in New York City's union affairs and political campaigns, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Mt. Vernon, N.Y.
        He died of lung cancer, union officials said.
        Mr. Bell, who was political action director for District 65, served as security director for the Rev. Jesse Jackson's 1988 Presidential primary campaign in New York. He served in a similar post in David N. Dinkins's 1989 mayoral campaign, and he also worked as Harlem director for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's 1986 re-election campaign, union officials said.
        As the president of the New York chapter of the Coalition of Black Trade Unionists, Mr. Bell was active in many community and labor coalitions, in voter education campaigns and in the movement against apartheid. Mr. Bell was coordinator of Nelson Mandela's visit to New York last year and he helped organize the large anti-apartheid rally that was held in Central Park in 1986, said Cleveland L. Robinson, the secretary-treasurer of District 65. Worked in Garment District
        Mr. Bell was born in Harlem and grew up in East Harlem. He attended public schools in the city and later served in the Army. After leaving the Army, he began working for a textile jobber in the garment district, distributing textiles to manufacturers. He and other workers were represented by District 65, a large, extremely diverse union whose members include auto workers, employees of cosmetics companies and professional staff members at Columbia University and the Museum of Modern Art.
        Mr. Bell later worked for a direct-mail company and was a traveling salesman for a shoe manufacturer, Mr. Robinson said. In each job, he was represented by District 65. Mr. Bell was an active union member and served as a shop steward and a local officer. He was also a member of the union's black affairs committee.
        In 1982, he joined the union as a full-time staff member. Besides working as political action director, Mr. Bell also directed the union's programs in adult education and vocational training. He oversaw the creation of a consortium for worker education, to teach basic educational skills to union members.
        Mr. Bell is survived by his mother, Essie Mae; two sons, James Jr. and Jermain; a daughter, Lorraine; a sister, Irene, and a brother, Arthur.
      