
        Jack Dunphy, a novelist and playwright who was the author Truman Capote's closest friend and companion for 35 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old, and lived in Manhattan and in Sagaponack, L.I.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        His career began in dance and show business but soon turned to writing short stories and novels, and plays that were produced Off Broadway.
        Trained in ballet under Catherine Littlefield, Mr. Dunphy toured with the Balanchine company in South America and danced at the 1939 World's Fair in New York. He married another dancer from Philadelphia, Joan McCracken, and together they played in the original "Oklahoma!" on Broadway. Praise for First Novel
        His first novel, "John Fury" (Harper, 1946), won praise, particularly for its compassion and restraint. His compassion was also cited in reviews of his other novels, which frequently dealt with troubled families and the despair and loneliness of everyday people. Many of his characters were Irish-Americans, and he often set his stories in Philadelphia.
        His plays met with less success, but critics called his books sensitive and carefully written with lyrical passages.
        At a cocktail party in 1948 he met another rising author, Mr. Capote, and they fell in love. Mr. Dunphy had separated from his wife, and later they divorced.
        Mr. Capote once said Mr. Dunphy "is my family" and the only man he ever loved. They frequently traveled to places like Greece, Italy and Switzerland. But Mr. Dunphy, a private man, shied away from Mr. Capote's fascination with high society. They lived together off and on. For some years their relationship was platonic, but they remained best friends.
        When Mr. Capote died in 1984, his will named Mr. Dunphy as the chief beneficiary. He wrote of their times together in "Dear Genius: A Memoir of My Life With Truman Capote" (McGraw-Hill, 1987).
        John Paul Dunphy was born in Atlantic City and grew up in Philadelphia. In his youth he worked odd jobs, as a printer's devil for a book publisher and an apple picker in Bucks County in Pennsylvania.
        While serving in the United States Army in Germany in World War II, he published his first work, "The Life of a Carrot," in Short Story magazine. More stories followed in Harper's Bazaar and other magazines.
        Surviving are a brother, Robert, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Olive Daley of Philadelphia and Fay Dellheim of Manhattan.
      