
        Robert Morris Page, the former research director of the United States Naval Research Laboratory who was a leading figure in the development of radar technology, died Friday at Fairview Southdale Hospital in Edina, Minn. He was 88 years old and lived in Bloomington, Minn.
        He died of heart failure, said his niece, Carol Hone.
        A physicist who came to Washington and the Naval Research Laboratory in 1927, Mr. Page spent nearly four decades researching radio waves and carrying out their use as a military tool. Among his inventions were the pulse radar system, which established the practice of detecting and locating targets by sending out high-frequency pulses of electromagnetic radiation rather than continuous waves; the planned position indicator, or P.P.I., a cathode ray tube with a beam making a circular sweep that was the first radar technology to indicate the direction and range of a "target" simultaneously, and Project Madre, the first radar system capable of "seeing" over the horizon. Decorated by Four Presidents
        Mr. Page's pulse radar was used in World War II to locate enemy ships and planes and, along with contributions by British physicists, was a significant factor in the Allied victory. In the 1960's, the Madre system was an early weapon in the cold war, enhancing the ability of the United States to watch for long-range missile launchings by the Soviet Union.
        For his accomplishments, he was decorated by four Presidents, including Harry S. Truman, who in 1946 awarded him the Certificate of Merit in aid of the war effort, and Dwight D. Eisenhower, who in 1960, presented Mr. Page with the Presidential Award for Distinguished Civilian Service. In 1986 President Ronald Reagan wrote to Mr. Page, remarking that 50 years after his initial radar work "our nation's scientists continue to rely on your research."
        Mr. Page was born in St. Paul in 1903. His father was a Methodist minister. He studied for the ministry at Hamline University in St. Paul, but as a senior changed his major to physics when he found himself dissatisfied by the religious education there.
        He graduated from Hamline in 1927, and immediately joined the staff of the United States Naval Research Laboratory, an institution of civilian scientists that had been established four years earlier according to a plan devised by Thomas A. Edison.
        In the early 1930's he began his experiments with radar, picking up on earlier pioneering work of the physicists A. Hoyt Taylor, Leo C. Young and Lawrence A. Hyland. Mr. Page's son, the Rev. John Robert Page, said it was Mr. Young who came up with the idea of sending pulses rather than waves of radiation to detect targets, but it was Mr. Page who invented the technology that made the idea work.
        At about the same time, a British researcher, Sir Alexander Watson Watt, was doing similar work, and some dispute persists over who was first. Nonetheless, the Americans and British pooled their work in 1940, with the result that radar made a huge contribution to the Allied war effort.
        Mr. Page, who held a master's degree in physics from George Washington University and an honorary doctorate from Hamline, was named research director of the Naval Research Laboratory in 1957, a post he held until his retirement in 1966. His book, "The Origin of Radar," was published in 1962.
        Mr. Page, a lanky man who wore a distinctive goatee, taught Bible classes throughout his tenure in Washington, and after his retirement he was an active speaker and lecturer on the relationship of science and the Scriptures. He believed that there was a scientific basis for the theory of creation and that Darwinian evolution was more of a philosophy than a science. He had recently finished a length study of the relationship among God, nature and science.
        In addition to his niece, who lives in Minnetonka, Minn., and his son, who lives in Medford, Ore., he is survived by a brother, John, of Austin, Tex., and a grandson.
      