
        Stephen Oliver, a prolific English composer of operas, theater music and television sound tracks, died on April 29 in London. He was 42 years old.
        A spokeswoman for his publisher, Novello & Company, said he died of AIDS.
        Mr. Oliver is best known in the United States for the incidental music he composed for the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of Charles Dickens's "Nicholas Nickleby," which played on Broadway in 1981 and was televised the following year. He also wrote the theme music for the BBC cycle of Shakespeare plays, and full scores for 10 of the productions. In 1983, he collaborated with Tim Rice on "Blondel," a musical about the knight who searched for the imprisoned King Richard the Lionhearted during the Crusades.
        As a theater composer, Mr. Oliver wrote in a tuneful, accessible style. His operas, on the other hand, drew on a more advanced, angular language. Two of them were produced in the United States: "The Duchess of Malfi," composed in 1971, had its American premiere at the Santa Fe Opera in New Mexico in 1978, and "Beauty and the Beast," composed in 1984, had its American premiere three years later at the Opera Theater of St. Louis.  'Malfi' Was a Student Work
        Mr. Oliver was born in Liverpool, England, on March 10, 1950. He was a chorister at St. Paul's Cathedral in London for five years, and studied music at Oxford. He composed his first major work, "The Duchess of Malfi," during his student years, but said that he had actually composed his first opera -- a work about ghosts in the Tower of London -- when he was a child. In the early 1970's, he collaborated with the librettist and director David Pountney on two one-act operas, "The Donkey" and "The Three Wise Monkeys."
        When Mr. Oliver's "Beauty and the Beast" was performed in St. Louis, he said that he had lost count of the number of operas he had composed, but that the figure was generally agreed to be about 50. Some were never performed, among them "The Ring" (1984), a work using characters from the British soap opera "Coronation Street."
        He also composed one symphony, a cantata, various chamber works and numerous adaptations, including a completion of Mozart's "Oca del Cairo" and a set of stylish, attractive recitatives for last summer's Glyndebourne production of "La Clemenza di Tito."
        His last major work, a dissonant two-act opera based on Shakespeare's "Timon of Athens," had its premiere last June at the English National Opera.
        Mr. Oliver's publisher said he was survived by his parents, but the company would not provide their names.
      