
        Peter Jenkins, an author and chief political columnist of The Independent, a new British daily, died in University College Hospital here today of respiratory failure caused by a lung disease. He was 58 years old.
        For more than 30 years, the politics of Britain was Mr. Jenkins's bread and butter, as he observed and wrote about Prime Ministers from Harold Macmillan and Harold Wilson to Margaret Thatcher and John Major. He lived politics, talked about it, gossiped about it, broadcast it and wrote two books about it as he watched Britain's world role change over the decades.
        Educated in history at Cambridge University, he began working at The Financial Times and went from there to The Guardian in 1960, working at the newspaper for a quarter-century until 1985. He then served two years at The Sunday Times and in 1987 joined The Independent, a daily with a centrist, often social democratic perspective. Mr. Jenkins held the post of associate editor. A Correspondent in Washington
        He expanded his political journalism in his books. In "Mrs. Thatcher's Revolution: The Ending of the Socialist Era," published here in 1987, he wrote, "The future may not be hers but she has set its agenda." His first book, "The Battle of Downing Street," came out in 1970. It dealt with the conflict over a Labor Government's plans for trade union changes.
        Mr. Jenkins knew the United States well, too, having been The Guardian's Washington correspondent in the early 70's. He often wrote about Britain's position in the postwar world, a place that was not, he said, as lofty as Britons seemed to think it should be. The nation would again flourish, he often said, when it finally reconciled itself to a position of enthusiastic leadership within the European Community, something that never really happened during his lifetime.
        By 1990, he had concluded that Mrs. Thatcher's era was over, before her resignation that November. He was too cautious to predict in print the results of Britain's election last month, but he bet $:100 on a Conservative Party victory, and won.
        Mr. Jenkins also wrote a play, "Illuminations," which was performed in 1980 at the Lyric Theater in the London borough of Hammersmith. A Former Smoker
        Mr. Jenkins had been a smoker and though he gave up the habit in recent years, he would sometimes become short of breath after chasing politicians up and down stairs and along the corridors of the House of Commons.
        He was admitted to the hospital five days ago, a day after writing his last column in The Independent, and died today, a hospital spokeswoman said, of complications caused by fibrosing alveolitis, which is a scarring of the air sacs of the lungs.
        Mr. Jenkins's first wife, Charlotte Strachey, died of leukemia. He is survived by his second wife, Polly Toynbee, social affairs editor of the BBC, and by a son and three daughters.
      