
        Nathaniel S. Colley Sr., a retired lawyer and a leader in the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died Wednesday at his ranch in Elk Grove, Calif., near Sacramento. He was 74 years old.
        He died of brain cancer, his family said.
        Mayor Anne Rudin of Sacramento, where Mr. Colley had practiced law for some 40 years, said he had made major contributions toward eliminating bias in housing. Kennedy Appointee
        For about four decades, he was active in the N.A.A.C.P. He served as its western regional counsel, a member of its national board, chairman of its legal committee and special contributions fund and the presiding officer at a national convention.
        In 1962 President John F. Kennedy appointed him to a committee to recommend steps to end discrimination against military employees and their families.
        Mr. Colley taught law for 17 years at the McGeorge School of Law at the University of the Pacific in Sacramento. Among his colleagues was Anthony M. Kennedy, who became a Supreme Court Justice in 1988. Mr. Colley helped dissuade some civil rights advocates who were critical of Mr. Kennedy from opposing his nomination to the Court but later expressed dismay at the new Justice's votes on several civil rights cases.
        Mr. Colley, who bred horses, had served as chairman of the California Horse Racing Board, the state regulatory agency.
        He grew up in Snow Hill, Ala., and graduated from the Tuskegee Institute in 1941. In World War II he served in a United States Army unit developing defenses against chemical weapons. He reached the rank of captain.
        After the war, he was rejected by the University of Alabama Law School because he was black. He earned his law degree at Yale University instead, then moved to Sacramento to begin his practice, specializing in civil litigation. He remained active as a lawyer until his illness last year.
        Surviving are his wife of 50 years, the former Jerlean Jackson; one son, Nathaniel Jr. of Sacramento; four daughters, Ola Marie Brown, Sondra Thomas and Natalie Lindsey, all of Sacramento, and Jerlean Daniel of Pittsburgh; two brothers, Council of Birmingham, Ala., and Nehemiah of Snow Hill, and nine grandchildren.
      