
        Philip C. Habib, a Brooklyn-born Lebanese-American who was one of the United States policymakers in the Middle East and Asia for decades, died Monday while vacationing in France. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Habib died of a heart attack, the United States Embassy said. He lived in Belmont, Calif.
        Mr. Habib served in the Foreign Service for nearly three decades, and many years in retirement as a trouble-shooter, crafting for himself a reputation as a tough and shrewd negotiator. He is credited with helping to arrange the cease-fire in Lebanon and the Palestine Liberation Organization's withdrawal from that country in 1982 following the Israeli invasion. He also played an important role in persuading President Ferdinand E. Marcos of the Philippines to go into exile in 1986.  Advisor to 3 Administrations
        A former Ambassador to South Korea, he helped craft foreign policy across the region both in that capacity and later as a top advisor to three Administrations. Although he officially retired from the Foreign Service in 1978, citing health problems, he was recalled just a year later to work as a special adviser to Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance.
        He became known as a tough trouble-shooter on behalf of the United States. His final assignment came in 1987, when he was called upon by President Reagan to be a special envoy in Central America. He resigned that post, and severed his ties with Government in August of that year.
        Just before his death, Mr. Habib had travelled to Evian, France to give a speech at the Bilderberg Conference, an annual meeting of European and United States scholars and intellectuals. Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, who also spoke at that conference, yesterday recalled Mr. Habib as "every Secretary of State's idea of a great foreign service officer."
        Dr. Kissinger first met Mr. Habib in Vietnam in the mid 1960's and recalled having been immediately impressed with his acumen and irreverence.
        "I was taken to meet him by Ambassador Lodge," Dr. Kissinger said in a telephone interview, referring to Henry Cabot Lodge, who was then United States Ambassador to Saigon. "And when I met him, he said, 'I bet you are one of those Harvard smart alecs who knows everything.' Then he told me to go to the provinces and 'see what was really going on.' "
        In his speech at the Bilderberg Conference, Mr. Habib spoke about the need to maintain the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the importance of America's ties with Europe. Then, according to those who attended, in a departure from his usual preoccupations with foreign affairs, he spoke at length about United States domestic issues, stressing the need for America to stand by its moral principles.
        Friends said his involvement in that conference was typical of the elder statesman who, despite near fatal heart attacks dating to the late 1970's and two open-heart surgeries, never abandoned his interest in world affairs.
        "He had no business going to these things," said Leslie H. Gelb, a former Pentagon and State Department official who worked with Mr. Habib in the 1960's at the height of the Vietnam conflict. "But he wanted to live, not just stay alive." Mr. Gelb is now a columnist with The New York Times.
        Mr. Habib was remembered yesterday by friends as a man of zest, creativity and relentless earnestness in the face of great odds.
        "He was the guy everybody knew," said Morton Abramowitz, the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and a veteran of 30 years in the State Department. "Phil's career runs the gamut of all U.S. foreign policy. But he was particularly involved in the transformation of Asia. He contributed fundamentally to the shaping of foreign policy in that area."
        Although Mr. Habib's expertise in the Foreign Service was mostly in Asia, particularly in Vietnam in the 1960's, where he was involved in the behind-the-scenes politics in Washington that eventually led President Johnson in 1968 to press for a negotiated end to the war, he was perhaps best remembered in later years for his work in the Middle East.  Lebanese From Bensonhurst
        A Lebanese Maronite Christian who grew up in a predominantly Jewish section of Bensonhurst, Mr. Habib became Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs in 1976. He remained in that post in the new Carter Administration and continued until he suffered the first of his heart attacks in December 1977.
        In retirement, he became a popular trouble-shooter for President Reagan. He was called upon to help hammer out a peace settlement in Lebanon, which later collapsed. For that work, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 1982.
        In fact, his diplomatic career started almost on a whim. According to his daughter, Phyllis, Mr. Habib had planned a career as a forest ranger. A graduate of the College of Forestry and Wildlife and Range Sciences at the University of Idaho, Mr. Habib was studying for his Ph.D. in agricultural economics at the University of California at Berkley when spotted a notice for a test to enter the State Department. "He decided to take the test," said Ms. Habib. "And he passed it." His first assignments took him to postings Canada and New Zealand.
        The Vietnam War changed his life, however, and established his career as a diplomat.
        "He was one of my heroes," Mr.  Kissinger said. "The great thing about him was that he was a terrific soldier." Inside the State Department he won a reputation as a man who would fight over issues about which he cared deeply. Yet he was known, too, as a professional who followed orders.
        During his tenure as Secretary of State, Mr. Kissinger said he relied heavily on Mr. Habib's advice. "I might not do what he said," he recalled. "But I wouldn't make a move without finding out what he thought."
        Mr. Habib, a gourmet and connoisseur of fine wines, was on a vacation with friends in Puligny-Montrachet, in the Cote d'Or region, when he collapsed, his daughter, said. Agence France-Presse, the French news agency, reported that he suffered a heart attack at his hotel and could not be revived by a medical team.
        Mr. Habib was living in retirement in the family's home of 17 years in Belmont, California. He was a Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, and was on the Board of Directors of the American University in Beirut. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Audi Bank of California, according to his daughter.
        After his retirement, Mr. Habib remained an active alumnus of the University of Idaho where he set up the Philip Habib Endowment for the Study of Environmental Issues and World Peace.
        Among other honors, Mr. Habib was decorated commander of France's Legion of Honor in 1988.
        He is survived by his wife, Marjorie W. Habib; two daughters, Phyllis, and Susan W. Michaels of Vestal, N.Y. and a granddaughter, Maren K. Michaels.
      