
        John E. Ivey Jr., an innovator in using electronic communications for teaching, died on Sunday at North Carolina Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C., his hometown. He was 73 years old.
        His family said the cause of death was pneumonia as a complication of Parkinson's disease.
        In addition to being an early champion of using television and other modern technology in education, Dr. Ivey promoted cooperative programs among colleges and universities and with business and government. In 1948 he helped form the Southern Regional Education Board, a compact of 16 states that exchanged students within the region for specialized training that was unavailable in their home states. Other regions later copied the program. Professor at Age 28
        After spending two years in the late 1950's as executive vice president of New York University, Dr. Ivey became the founding president of two educational organizations: the Learning Resources Institute, which promoted the use of films, radio and television in education, and the Midwest Project on Airborne Television Instruction. A precursor of today's satellite telecasts, the Midwest Project used transmitters on airplanes to beam courses to rural elementary and secondary schools in six Midwestern states.
        Dr. Ivey later became a professor and dean of the College of Education at Michigan State University, where he retired in 1976.
        Dr. Ivey was born in Raleigh, N.C., grew up in Auburn, Ala., and graduated from Auburn University. He earned a doctorate in sociology at the University of North Carolina, where he taught for several years and, at the age of 28, became the youngest full professor in the university's history.
        In 1960 he served on a panel that made specific recommendations to President-elect John F. Kennedy on creating the Peace Corps. At various times in his career he also served as a racial-integration consultant to the United States Civil Rights Commission, as secretary of the American Council on Education, as a director of the Southern Association of Science and Industry, and as chairman of both the Florida Survey of Higher Education and the Survey of Reorganization of the Atlanta Schools System.
        He wrote and edited many books and articles and won the Freedoms Foundation Medal and an Eisenhower Fellowship for foreign study.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Melville Corbett; two daughters, Dr. Jo Ivey Boufford of England, who is a former president of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, and Lela Ivey Schultz of Los Angeles; a son, Howard W. Ivey of the Bronx, and two brothers, William L. Ivey of Columbia, S.C., and Michael H. Ivey of Chapel Hill.
      