
        Harold B. Miller, an aviation pioneer who became a public relations expert as an admiral in the Navy and later as a corporate executive, died on Friday at the Americana Nursing Home in Overland Park, Kan. He was 89 years old and lived in Shawnee Mission, Kan.
        He died of multiple ailments, his family said.
        In his varied career, Mr. Miller was an innovator in combat news coverage, headed Radio Free Europe and was an author, government official and college administrator.
        He transformed coverage of the Navy in World War II as a publicity aide to Adm. Chester W. Nimitz and in a new public relations post for the entire Navy that was created for him in 1945.
        He was assigned the job by Navy brass who envied the publicity garnered by Gen. Douglas MacArthur of the Army while their stories were lost in bureaucracy, censorship, logistics and weeks-long delays. Promoted to Rear Admiral
        He was promoted to rear admiral at the age of 42 -- the youngest person to hold the title then.
        Removing a "Do Not Enter" sign at his office, he told reporters: "It will be our policy while I am here to tell you just what the hell is going on. If national security is involved, we will tell you that, too, and try to explain why. My office has three doors, and all of them will be open all day."
        He authorized more correspondents and photographers to battlefronts and set up radios and couriers. He had enlisted men report to hometown papers. He used Edward Steichen, the famed photographer, and recruited 20th Century-Fox to film "The Fighting Lady," a documentary.
        After he left the Navy in 1946, with a Legion of Merit and a Gold Star, he became Trans World Airlines' vice president for public relations. He also was director of the Congressional Aviation Policy Board and president of the National Committee for Free Europe.
        His longest tenures were several years as the American Petroleum Institute's information director and the Oil Industry Information Committee's director, 11 years as Pan Am's public relations director and six years as a vice president of Hofstra University, where he retired in 1974.
        Mr. Miller was born in Newton, Iowa, and grew up in Los Angeles. He entered the Naval Academy in 1920.
        In a novel chapter of experimental aviation, he commanded a squadron of biplanes on a floating airport in the sky, held aloft by a giant helium-filled dirigible.
        The 785-foot-long airborne carrier lowered the planes from its bay by a trapeze-like device and released for flight. For "landings," they were recoupled to the device and pulled into the airship. After the first airship crashed in a storm off New Jersey in 1933, and he survived the downing of a second airship in a 1935 storm off Point Sur, Calif., the Navy abandoned the concept.
        His first marriage, to Jean Dupont, ended in divorce, and his second wife, the former Mary Emory Hodgkinson, died. He is survived by his wife of 38 years, the former Mary L. McGee; a daughter, Joan Ingalls of Fiddletown Creek, Calif.; two sons, Harold B. Miller Jr. of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Barry Miller of Lambesc, France; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      