
        Dr. Arthur B. Voorhees Jr., who made an accidental laboratory discovery as an intern that inspired him to develop and implant the first successful artificial arteries for human patients, died on May 12 at his home in Albuquerque, N.M.
        He was 70 years old and died of brain cancer, his family said.
        His pioneering work started by chance. In a post-mortem examination of a laboratory animal in Manhattan in 1947, he found a silk suture that had been inadvertently left in a ventricular cavity weeks before. Surprisingly, the thread had become coated with natural endocardial tissue cells.
        "It was a fragile structure, but its appearance was sufficiently startling to make me wonder if a piece of cloth might react in a similar way," he said later. "From there I speculated that a cloth tube, acting as a latticework of threads, might indeed serve as an arterial prosthesis."
        His first artificial artery was fashioned from a silk handkerchief. Next he turned to a bolt of vinyon-N cloth, donated by Union Carbide Company, that was left over from making World War II parachutes. It worked even better.
        Borrowing his wife's sewing machine, Dr. Voorhees stitched experimental cloth arteries for animals. One of the first recipients, a dog, lived several years.
        In that era, natural grafts from human and animal donors were used for human patients. But such grafts were in scarce supply and were susceptible to rejection by the host body.
        A breakthrough came in an operating room emergency at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in 1952. A patient suffering a ruptured aortic aneurysm faced death because no natural graft was available. The only hope was to try a synthetic artery.
        Dr. Voorhees dashed from the operating table to sew a vinyon-N tube to replace the ruptured artery. The patient survived, proving the procedure worked in human beings. Over the next two years, Dr. Voorhees successfully performed 18 such operations.
        Other surgeons copied, elaborated on and refined the procedure, eventually adapting other newly invented materials. But the same basic principle remains in use today for replacing blocked, ruptured or otherwise defective vascular tissue.
        Dr. Voorhees was born in Moorestown, N.J. He graduated from the University of Virginia in 1943 and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1946. After his internship, residency and a fellowship at Columbia and two years at a United States Army medical center in San Antonio, he went into private practice in 1953.
        He was an attending physician at Columbia-Presbyterian for about 30 years, retiring in 1983 as chief of the vascular service. He also taught surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Surviving are his wife of 47 years, the former Margaret Roberts; two sons, Stephen C., of Putney, Vt., and Jefferson, of Albuquerque; a daughter, Evelyn L. Wade of West Lebanon, N.Y.; a sister, Margaret Beal of Center Harbor, N.H., and a granddaughter.
      