
        Preston Rogers Bassett, a former president of Sperry Gyroscope Company and the chief engineer in the development of the first automatic pilot and other flight instruments, died on Thursday at his home in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 100 years old.
        He died of cardiac arrest, a son, Preston R. Bassett Jr. of Wyckoff, N.J., said.
        Mr. Bassett joined Sperry in 1914 as a research engineer and remained with the company for 42 years, serving as president from 1945 until his retirement in 1956.
        During World War I, Mr. Bassett, an inventor and engineer, developed the high-intensity antiaircraft searchlight, which became an important wartime instrument. He also directed the development of the Sperry Gyropilot flight director for automatic flying, as well as blind-flying instruments, the gyro-horizon and the directional gyro, which became standard equipment on transport and military planes. First Night Airfield
        Interested in the entire field of air transportation, Mr. Bassett helped the Air Mail Service establish the first night airfield with beacons and floodlights. Also concerned for passenger comfort, he developed the first successful system for soundproofing aircraft.
        Mr. Bassett was appointed by President Eisenhower to the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics and served on this civilan panel from 1954 to 1958.
        Mr. Bassett was born in Buffalo, graduated from Amherst College and did postgraduate engineering studies at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, receiving honorary doctorates from Amherst in 1953 and Adelphi in 1954.
        A charter member of the Early American Industries Association, Mr. Bassett donated a good part of his collection of early Americana to the Smithsonian Institution and the Keeler Tavern Museum in Ridgefield, Conn.
        Besides his son Preston Jr., he is survived by two other sons, Allen M. of Paris and William A. of Ithaca, N.Y.; a daughter, Margaret B. Stern of New York City; 12 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      