
        Herbert Sharfman, who as an administrative law judge for the Federal Communications Commission issued a number of notable decisions, died Tuesday at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 82 years old.
        His family said the cause of death was complications from Parkinson's disease.
        Mr. Sharfman's competence and integrity were subjects of special praise when a Congressional subcommittee investigated bribery accusations against an F.C.C. member in 1958.
        The accusations concerned a television license in Miami that the commission had issued a year earlier. Mr. Sharfman had conducted hearings on the license, reviewing four applicants, but the commission rejected his choice and voted for the applicant that he had found least qualified.
        As a result of the Congressional inquiry, Richard A. Mack, a former chairman of the commission, resigned as a member. He was later indicted on bribery charges, but the jury deadlocked.  Unearthed False Accusation
        Mr. Sharfman presided over another controversial case in 1955. Edward Lamb, a broadcaster in Ohio and Pennsylvania, faced opposition to a license renewal because the staff of the F.C.C. accused him of engaging in pro-Communist activity. Mr. Sharfman expressed skepticism about the accusations, and two of the Government's witnesses later admitted that their testimony had been concocted.
        Mr. Sharfman found that there was no proof that Mr. Lamb was a Communist or had promoted Communism. He recommended renewal of the license, and the commission approved his recommendation.
        Mr. Sharfman was born in Northampton, Pa. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia Law School.
        After 11 years as a lawyer in Pennsylvania, he joined the Federal Office Price Administration in 1944 as a hearing examiner. Later he transferred to the Federal Communications Commission. After retiring from the F.C.C. in 1974, he heard regulatory cases at the Postal Rate Commission through 1976.
        His wife of 55 years, the former Dorothy Muriel Cohen, died in 1987. He is survived by a daughter, Jo-Ellen Crews of Longwood, Fla.; a son, Richard Sharfman of Short Hills, N.J.; a sister, Frances Nebel of Northampton, Pa., and two granddaughters.
      