
        Salvador Nava Martinez, an ophthalmologist whose gritty political battles against Mexico's long-ruling party made him a symbol of opposition demands for greater democracy, died on Monday night in his home city of San Luis Potosi.
        Dr. Nava, who was 78 years old, died of a heart attack provoked by an abdominal infection, his son, Manuel Nava, said by telephone from San Luis Potosi.
        Dr. Nava had suffered from gallbladder cancer for nearly two years. After his doctors told him that he had perhaps a month to live, he announced his retirement from politics on May 8. Although Mexican officials had in the past denounced him as a violent subversive, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari flew to visit Dr. Nava at his home the next day, lavishing praise on him. Outlived a Corrupt System
        "He is a man committed to the advance of democracy in our country without violence," Mr. Salinas said. And in a room near the one where they chatted, a collection of old family photographs underscored the change in official attitude. They showed the short, balding physician being arrested for his political activities, on his way to jails where he was held, beaten and tortured.
        That Dr. Nava had outlived a system in which electoral fraud and the repression of dissent seemed to be matter-of-course became clear after his campaign for the governorship of San Luis Potosi state last August.
        He lost a closely watched election to the candidate of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, Fausto Zapata. But Dr. Nava asserted that there had been widespread fraud, and, refusing to accept defeat, put on a sweatsuit and led thousands of supporters on a 258-mile protest march from the state capital to Mexico City.
        With the Government now under scrutiny in Mexico and abroad, Mr. Salinas did the once-unthinkable. Days after attending his candidate's inauguration, he forced Mr. Zapata to resign and appointed an interim governor in anticipation of new elections in 1993.
        Dr. Nava was supported most consistently by the right-of-center National Action Party. But he entered politics as an independent and for the most part stayed that way while holding office. Opposed State Bosses
        He first became prominent in the late 1940's, when, as a medical professor at the state university in San Luis Potosi, he clashed with the political bosses who dominated the state.
        Two years after winning election as mayor in 1959, he sought the ruling party's nomination for governor; when it was denied, he ran as an independent. The P.R.I.'s candidate claimed victory, and when the opposition insisted that there had been widespread fraud, soldiers killed demonstrators and threw Dr. Nava and his aides in jail.
        He continued his medical practice until he was elected mayor a second time in 1982 with the backing of both the National Action and leftist parties. His strong showing in last year's election created short-lived hopes among Government opponents that rightist and leftist parties might unite against the PRI, but within months, they were again bickering.
        Federico Reyes Heroles, the editor of Este Pais, a leading political magazine, said of the mayor: "The interesting thing about Nava was that he was a phenomenon that rose above parties, above ideology. That speaks to a call for democracy from the society. But that leadership cannot be handed down."
        Dr. Nava is survived by his wife, Maria Concepcion Calvillo, five sons and a daughter.
      