
        George Murphy, a Hollywood actor, singer and dancer who was later elected a United States Senator from California, died Sunday night at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89 years old.
        He died of leukemia, his wife, Bette, said.
        From the 1930's to the 1950's, Mr. Murphy acted in more than 40 motion pictures, many of them M-G-M musicals. A tall and dignified performer, he danced opposite Shirley Temple in the 1938 film "Little Miss Broadway," acted opposite Judy Garland in the film version of George M. Cohan's "Little Nellie Kelly," and worked with Ronald Reagan, who later became a close friend and political ally, in the film "This Is the Army."
        Years later, Shirley Temple Black recalled: "He was calm, no temper, and always knew his lines. He had a natural sense of rhythm."
        Mr. Murphy, a Democrat who switched his allegiance to the Republican Party in 1939, became active in Hollywood politics in the 1940's, serving two terms as president of the Screen Actors Guild. He retired from films in 1952 and became a public relations executive in the motion picture industry, working for M-G-M and Desilu Productions, among others.
        Known as Hollywood's Ambassador of Goodwill, he won a special Academy Award in 1950 for "his service in correctly interpreting the film industry to the country at large."
        Mr. Murphy had a varied political career. He was the director of entertainment for President Dwight D. Eisenhower's inaugurations in 1953 and 1957. And he served as chairman of the state central committee of the California Republican party from 1953 to 1954.
        In 1964, Mr. Murphy, a conservative, was elected to the Senate, defeating Pierre Salinger, a former press secretary to President John F. Kennedy who later became a television news commentator.  Electoral Fight in 1970
        Mr. Murphy lost his seat in 1970 to John V. Tunney, a moderate Democrat. Mr. Murphy was hobbled in that race by a raspy voice, resulting from a throat cancer operation, and by questions about his relationship with Technicolor Inc., the Hollywood movie-processing company. Mr. Murphy was once a vice president of the company and, when he was elected to the Senate, he became a public-relations consultant, at a salary of $20,000 a year.
        George Lloyd Murphy was born in New Haven on July 4, 1902. His father, Michael, a track coach at the University of Pennsylvania for many years, coached the 1912 United States track team, which was led by Jim Thorpe, and which placed first at the Olympic Games in Stockholm.
        Mr. Murphy's first job in New York City, where he moved in the 1920's, was as a messenger on Wall Street. But he soon took to the stage, forming a dance partnership with Juliette Henkel, a native of Detroit who used the stage name Julie Johnson and who married Mr. Murphy in 1926. The couple was married for 47 years, until her death. Broadway in 1927
        The couple first performed in cabarets and debutante parties before joining the nightclub circuit. Mr. Murphy made his Broadway debut in 1927, as a member of the chorus of the musical comedy "Good News." He later performed in three other Broadway shows: the musical comedy "Hold Everything!," the political satire "Of Thee I Sing," and the musical comedy "Roberta."
        Mr. Murphy is survived by his second wife, whom he married in 1982; a son, Dennis, of Marina del Rey, Calif., and a daughter, Melissa Brown, of San Diego, both from his previous marriage, and four grandchildren.
      