
        Dr. Thomas O. Paine, who oversaw the nation's space program during the first manned missions to the moon, died on Monday at his home in Brentwood, Calif. He was 70 years old.
        He died of cancer, said David Garrett, a spokesman for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        Dr. Paine joined the space agency as its Deputy Administrator in January 1968 and was named Administrator in March 1969. During his tenure NASA launched the first seven Apollo missions, in which 20 astronauts orbited the earth, 14 flew to the moon and 4 walked on its surface. Served in World War II
        He resigned from the agency in September 1970 to become a vice president and group manager at General Electric, where he had worked for 25 years before joining NASA. In 1985 President Ronald Reagan appointed him chairman of the National Commission on Space. He was appointed by President Bush to the Advisory Committee on the Future of the Space Program.
        Thomas Otten Paine was born on Nov. 9, 1921, in Berkeley, Calif. He graduated from Brown University with a bachelor's degree in engineering and received a master's degree and a Ph.D. in physical metallurgy from Stanford University. In World War II he served as a submarine officer in the Pacific and qualified as a Navy deep sea diver.
        He began his career at General Electric in 1949 as a research associate in the company's laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y., and later worked in its research and development center there as manager of engineering applications. From 1963 to 1968 he was manager of Tempo, the company's center for advanced study and research in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Dr. Paine joined the Northrop Corporation in 1976 and retired in 1982.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; two sons, George Paine of Washington Grove, Md., and Frank Paine of Los Osos, Calif.; two daughters, Marguerite Matthews of Fairbanks, Alaska, and Judith Paine of Carpinteria, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      