
        Joseph Trerotola, who started as a milk deliverer and rose to power in the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, died on Tuesday at St. Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 82 years old and lived in Yonkers.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Trerotola served for many years as first vice president of the international union. For the last 26 years he was also president of the Teamsters' Joint Council 16, with 150,000 members in the New York City region, and chairman of the union's eastern conference, with 500,000 members from Maine to the Carolinas.
        He retired under pressure last fall to satisfy Justice Department officials who had accused him of failing to investigate other union officers for ties to organized crime. Mr. Trerotola denied having mob associations and vowed, "I'm not investigating anybody." He said the Government wanted him "to be a stool pigeon." Knew the Union Ropes
        Mr. Trerotola had thrived in internal union power struggles. He served temporarily as president of Joint Council 16 in 1956 during a bitter court fight between two contestants for the office who were supported by rival factions headed by the international president, David Beck, and by James R. Hoffa.
        Mr. Trerotola was responsible for one of the teamsters' most vivid images when he was the host of a lavish 1986 party with tables laden with fancy food and drinks for thousands of union delegates at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas.
        The high point came as he and Jackie Presser, the teamsters president, were borne into the room reclining on an imperial chariot wheeled by men wearing the costumes of Roman soldiers while martial music played and the loudspeaker proclaimed "Hail, Caesar!"
        Known as a calming influence, Mr. Trerotola helped New York locals settle various strikes, including walkouts by milk deliverers, fuel oil deliverers, United Parcel drivers and commercial trash collectors.  Social Concerns
        He also spoke out on political and social issues. In 1967 he reported that the city had lost manufacturing jobs and that welfare rolls had doubled in a decade. In a prophetic warning, he said those trends, coupled with expanded government spending, were a recipe for fiscal catastrophe. The city's financial crisis came to a head in 1975.
        In 1977 he estimated that out-of-wedlock births in the city had doubled to 30 percent in a decade, a trend with social and fiscal implications. Another teamsters report that year showed that New York had the nation's highest state and local tax burden, sharply undercutting workers' take-home pay.
        Mr. Trerotola is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Anita Ranalli; a son, Vincent, of Greenburgh, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      