
        John Gates, who quit as a top American Communist official and chief editor of The Daily Worker after losing a campaign to democratize the party and free it from Moscow's control, died yesterday at the Miami Heart Institute in Miami Beach. He was 78 years old and lived in North Miami Beach.
        He died of heart disease and a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Gates broke from the party in 1958 after much soul-searching, which began while he served a five-year prison sentence. He and other party leaders were convicted of advocating the overthrow of the Government, which they denied. A Turning Point
        After his release in 1955, new revelations came of the abuses of Stalinism. In 1956, Nikita Khrushchev denounced Stalin and the Soviets crushed the rebellion in Hungary.
        "For the first time, I feel ashamed of the name Communist," Mr. Gates said. He led a faction in intense infighting to change the party, but lost.
        He quit with a rebuke. "The ideals that attracted me to socialism still motivate me," his resignation said, but "the Communist Party has ceased to be an effective force for democracy, peace and socialism." Helped Workers With Claims
        After writing a book on his experience, he became a senior research assistant at the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.
        At the union, He helped members with workers' compensation, unemployment and Social Security claims. He retired in 1987.
        He felt vindicated by the recent collapse of Communism and the Soviet Union, "but it was an unhappy vindication, because it took so long and so many people suffered," his wife, Lillian, said.
        Mr. Gates remained concerned about the issues that led him to Communism: poverty, discrimination, homelessness, hunger and inadequate schools and health care.
        He criticized capitalism for placing profit above the public welfare and keeping power in the hands of a few, but he grew wary of ideological prescriptions.
        "After being so certain and dogmatic," he wrote after quitting the party, "I do not profess to have all the answers."  Moved to Ohio
        Mr. Gates was born in Manhattan and reared there and in the Bronx. He joined the Communists at the age of 17 as an outgrowth of a protest at City College.
        In the early 1930's, during the Depression, he left his college studies to mobilize jobless youths in Ohio. He ran for the Youngstown City Council and was jailed on a charge of making a loud noise without a permit.
        He fought in the Spanish Civil War, becoming the commissar of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade at the age of 24, the highest-ranking American in the war.
        During World War II, he enlisted in the United States Army and volunteered as a paratrooper in Europe.
        Resuming his Communist work after the war, he became one of seven national secretaries and the editor of the Worker. Despite his conviction in the nation's first Communist trials, he always maintained his loyalty to America.
        Mr. Gates said he favored peaceful, democratic change to socialism, and opposed force, violence and espionage. A Final Judgment
        In prison, he later wrote, "We talked endlessly, of what we might have done better in the past, what we could do in the future." His discussions and introspection eventually led him to say: "Today, the Communist Party has become irrelevant."
        Surviving are his wife of 47 years, the former Lillian Schwartz; a brother, Nat Regenstreif, of Hollywood, Fla., and three sisters, Blanche Smiles of the Bronx, Irene Travis of Charlotte, N.C., and Marlene Seml of Boca Raton, Fla.
      