
        Sidney P. Marland Jr., United States Commissioner of Education in the early 1970's, died on Monday at his home in Hampton, Conn. He was 77 years old.
        He died of cancer, said his wife, Virginia.
        Dr. Marland's career in education spanned five decades. He was a high school English teacher in West Hartford, Conn., in the late 1930's, and in the 50's and 60's, and superintendent of schools in Darien, Conn., Winnetka, Ill., and Pittsburgh.
        He served on numerous national education commissions and study groups before and after his service as Commissioner of Education from 1970 to 1972. After his tenure in Washington, he was president of the College Entrance Examination Board, now known as the College Board, which administers the Scholastic Aptitude Tests and the Achievement Tests required by many colleges for admission. Pushed for Integration
        As Assistant Secretary of Education in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare from 1972 to 1973, Dr. Marland was a forceful advocate of giving students field experience in different occupations.
        He also pushed for states to integrate their public schools, saying that if they failed to comply with the educational provisions of the Civil Rights Acts they should be denied education funds in their Federal programs.
        A New York Times news article about his nomination by President Richard M. Nixon to be education commissioner described him as "an insider, accepted by the educational establishment, but who also sees the need for reforms and change."
        Dr. Marland, who was born in Danielson, Conn., received bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Connecticut in 1936 and 1950, and a doctorate in educational administration from New York University in 1955.
        During World War II, he served in the Army in the Pacific theater and was discharged with the rank of colonel, having been awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the Bronze Star and the Legion of Merit.
        Among many activities, Dr. Marland was chairman of the editorial board of Scholastic Inc., and a member of the Connecticut Board of Governors for Higher Education.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Marland is survived by three children, Sidney P. 3d, of Lancaster, Pa.; Pamela Izard, of Restinclieres, France; and Judy Brewer, of Short Hills, N.J.; a brother, Richard, of Southern Pines, N.C., and seven grandchildren.
      