
        Maitland A. Edey, a former editor in chief of Time-Life Books and a science writer and conservationist, died on May 9 at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Vineyard Haven, Mass. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Edey, a Vineyard Haven resident, died of a brain hemorrhage, said his wife, Helen Kellogg Edey.
        Mr. Edey, a native of New York and a 1932 graduate of Princeton, indulged his interest in history and the environment by writing numerous articles and 11 books. Their topics included American songbirds and waterbirds, and the great cats of Africa. The most popular and critically acclaimed was "Lucy: The Beginnings of Humankind" (Simon & Schuster) which he co-wrote with Donald C. Johanson. The 1981 book described the discovery of a three-million-year-old skeleton of an early apelike animal which became the focus of an intense scientific debate over when human beings first appeared on earth. "Lucy" won a National Book Award. Worked for Life Magazine
        Mr. Edey, who had worked as an editorial assistant at various New York publishing houses before World War II, joined Life magazine in 1945. He served as a major with the intelligence branch of the Air Force during the war. He resigned from Life as an assistant managing editor in 1956 to do freelance writing.
        In 1957 Mr. Edey, whose family had deep roots in New York State, served as a working crew member on the Mayflower II, which retraced the voyage of the original Pilgrim ship from Plymouth, England to Plymouth, Mass.
        In 1960 he was named editor of Time-Life Books and worked there for the next 12 years, the last six as editor in chief.
        He retired from Time-Life in 1972 and returned to freelance writing. Six of his eleven books were written during the 1970's and 1980's.
        Among his numerous activities, Mr. Edey was a board member of the Felix Neck Wildlife Trust on Martha's Vineyard.
        He is survived by his wife and four children, Maitland A. Edey Jr. of Vineyard Haven, Mass.; Winthrop K. Edey of Manhattan; Beatrice W. Phear of Cambridge, Mass., and Marion B. Edey of Silver Spring, Md.
      