
        Wilbur D. Mills, a dominant figure in the House of Representatives for more than two decades, died yesterday at his home in Kensett, Ark. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Mills, a Democrat whose name for years seemed inextricably linked to the title "chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee," was taken to White County Memorial Hospital in nearby Searcy, Ark. Efforts to revive him failed, a nursing supervisor, Jackie Wooldridge, told The Associated press. Ms. Wooldridge would not disclose the cause of death.
        Once held in awe for his near-absolute sway over any legislation with fiscal consequences, Mr. Mills's power eroded rapidly after an incident in 1974 in which a striptease dancer who performed under the stage name Fanne Foxe, the Argentine Firecracker, jumped out of his car and waded into the Tidal Basin beside the Jefferson Memorial.
        Mr. Mills blamed his struggle with alcoholism for the incident.
        Mr. Mills's prestige had derived not only from his reputation for keen intellect and intense scrutiny to detail but from the then-potent seniority system, which granted enormous power to committee chairmen, especially to the chairman of the committee that held the purse strings. "I never vote against God, motherhood or Wilbur Mills," a House colleague once told a reporter.
        Wilbur Daigh Mills was born in Kensett (population 905), about 60 miles north of Little Rock, on May 24, 1909. His father was the town grocer and bank president. Mr. Mills was 10 years old when a visit to town by Representative William A. Oldfield turned his thoughts to a career in politics. "I decided that I wanted to be a Congressman," he said. "I've never regretted the decision."
        Mr. Mills earned a bachelor of arts degree from Hendrix College in Conway, Ark., in 1930, and his law degree from Harvard University in 1933. Although he was admitted to the Arkansas bar that same year, the Depression limited his opportunities for practicing law, and he worked as a cashier in his father's bank for a year.
        At the same time, however, he became active in local politics, and in 1934 he was elected as the White County probate and county judge. Four years later, he was elected to the House of Representatives from Arkansas's Second District. 38 Years in House
        He served 38 years in the House, leading the Ways and Means Committee for almost half of that time. While chairman, Mr. Mills wrote most of the Federal tax code and exercised control over such vital fiscal matters as Social Security, military spending and tariff legislation.
        A compactly built man, 5 feet, 8 inches tall, with brushed-back hair, Mr. Mills was a habitual smoker of tiny cigars fitted into a long holder.
        When first elected to Congress at the age of 29, he was the House's second-youngest member. Soon after, he gained a reputation for diligent attention to detail that brought him into favor with Speaker Sam Rayburn, who appointed him to the House Banking and Currency Committee in 1939, and to the Ways and Means Committee in 1943.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Mills usually voted with the Southern bloc on civil rights and segregation issues. "I couldn't stay in Congress unless I voted the way I do on these highly emotional issues," he once said.
        In March 1949, Mr. Mills and two other conservative Congressmen sponsored a bill to encode in Federal law professional baseball's "reserve clause," which allowed club owners to bind a player to one owner's team perpetually. And two years later he proposed legislation exempting all professional sports from Federal antitrust laws.
        During the 1950's, Mr. Mills also voted against statehood for Hawaii, against the admission of 217,000 refugees from Communist countries and against construction of the St. Lawrence Seaway. He voted for making membership in the Communist Party a crime.
        In 1957, Mr. Mills automatically became chairman of Ways and Means when his predecessor, Jere Cooper of Tennessee, died. During the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, Mr. Mills moderated his views and cooperated with the more liberal Presidents, and his power mounted. Once, when President John F. Kennedy went to Arkansas to dedicate a dam near Herber Springs, a White House aide said, "If Wilbur wanted us to go down to Herber Springs and sing, 'Down by the Old Mills Stream,' we'd be glad to do it."
        Mr. Mills started out as a stubborn opponent of Medicare, forms of which had been debated during the Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. But when the crucial vote came in 1965, Mr. Mills executed an about-face and not only voted for the historic measure but helped guide it through his committee and the House.
        He also guided through the House a large tax cut in 1965, the tax revisions of 1967, welfare revisions in 1971 and numerous foreign-trade tariff laws.
        During the Nixon Administration, a once very cooperative relationship with the Republican President turned adversarial. In April 1970, at an appearance at Mr. Mills's alma mater, Hendrix College, President Richard M. Nixon's Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Robert H. Finch called Mr. Mills "easily one of the 10 outstanding legislators in the history of the Republic."
        But in early 1971, skirmishing between the White House and Mr. Mills became evident when the Congressman called the President's revenue-sharing plan "very bad and dangerous" and vowed, "I will kill it." The division widened in disputes over a series of foreign trade pacts. Possible Court Nominee
        For a time in the early 1970's, Mr. Mills's name was being mentioned as a possible nominee for the Supreme Court or the Presidency. But on Oct. 7, 1974, that speculation was dashed.
        Early that morning, after police stopped Mr. Mills' weaving car, Annabel Battistella, the stripper who performed as Fanne Foxe, ran from the car and leaped into the Tidal Basin. Mr. Mills stepped from the car, intoxicated, his face bleeding.
        Mr. Mills was elected to his 19th and final House term a month after the incident. He was forced to relinquish his chairmanship. "I drank booze, and I mixed the drinks with some highly addictive drugs," he later said.
        As a recovered alcoholic, Mr. Mills spoke before the Senate Finance subcommittee on health in July 1982, saying: "I thought it was a failure on my part. It's a disease from which you can recover and gain back your position in life."
        Mr. Mills is survived by his wife, Clarine; two daughters, Martha Sue Dixon of West Simsbury, Conn., and Rebecca Ann Yates of Wayne, N.J.; his brother, Roger of Kensett; a sister Emma Gene Yancey of Marianna, Ark.; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      