
        Bruce Paul Hopkins, a director, a cabaret performer and a star of the transvestite opera troupe La Gran Scena Opera Company, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 44 years old.
        He died of complications from diabetes, said Ira Siff, the troupe's artistic director.
        It was shortly after the formation of the Gran Scena company in 1981 that Mr. Hopkins joined as its narrator and created the role of Sylvia Bills, "America's most beloved retired diva," a comic character that won him wide critical praise. As a cabaret performer in the 1980's, he also created two solo performance pieces, "Conversations at Our Lady of the Harbor Bar and Grill" and "Escape From New York," in which he played multiple characters. Both shows were produced in cabarets around New York and toured Europe. He also directed the 1986 Off Broadway show "Have I Got a Girl For You? (The Frankenstein Musical)."
        Mr. Hopkins was born in Dallas, Pa., and graduated from Bloomsburg State College in Pennsylvania. He made his New York stage debut in 1971 in Al Carmines's "Christmas Rappings." It was the first of three shows by Mr. Carmines in which he appeared over the next three years.
        He went on to form a vocal group, Get Out of My House, which specialized in pop songs of the 20's, 30's and 40's. And in 1976 he made his solo cabaret debut at the Duplex. He also began directing many performers, including Julie Kurnitz, Margaret Wright, Semina de Laurentis, Ira Siff, Celeste, Nancy La Mott and Lena Koutrakis. Over the years as a performer, writer and director, he won five MAC (Manhattan Association of Cabarets) awards.
        During much of the 1980's, he also worked as a booking manager for the clubs Duplex and Don't Tell Mama.
        Mr. Hopkins is survived by his parents, Faye and Evelyn Hopkins, of Dallas, Pa., and by a brother, Donald, also of Dallas, and a sister, Barbara, of State College, Pa.
        There will be a memorial in early June at the Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South.
      