
        Burt Supree, a writer on dance who was a senior editor and dance reviewer at The Village Voice, died on Friday morning in Manhattan. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was believed to be a heart attack, said a friend, June Ekman.
        Mr. Supree wrote a weekly column called "Kids" for The Voice from 1973 to 1979. To both subjects, children and dance, he brought equanimity, an eye for vividly telling detail, and a quiet passion and sense of humor. In the late 1960's and 1970's, he was the author of three children's books, including "Mother Mother I Feel Sick Send for the Doctor Quick Quick Quick" and "Harlequin and the Gift of Many Colors," prize-winning picture books written with and illustrated by Remy Charlip. Acted for a Time
        Mr. Supree was born in New York City. After graduating from City College with a degree in literature, he performed as a dancer with Aileen Passloff, Elaine Summers, Surya Kumari and Sabine Nordoff. He acted in many productions of the Judson Poets' Theater, among them "What Happened," "A Beautiful Day," "Pomegranada" and Lanford Wilson's "Un titled Play," working with Al Carmines, Ruth Krauss and Harry Koutoukos. Mr. Supree also appeared in Paul Goodman's "Jonah" and Paul Foster's "Madonna in the Orchard" at the American Place Theater, in John Braswell's "Troyer" at La Mama, and as an extra in the Kirov Ballet's "Cinderella" at Madison Square Garden.
        Mr. Supree taught "A Workshop in Making Things Up" with Ms. Ekman and Shirley Kaplan at Sarah Lawrence College in the early 1970's. With Ms. Ekman, he presented a participatory exhibition called "Costumes and Performing With Newspaper" at the American Crafts Museum.
        He began writing about dance in 1976. His articles appeared in The Los Angeles Times and Herald-Examiner, the British Mirabella, Elle, Interview and Dance Ink. He contributed to "Body to Body," a book on Bill T. Jones and Arnie Zane, and was on the editorial board of Inside Arts, a publication of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters. As the dance editor and listings editor of The Voice, he made a point of promoting the work of new and little-known choreographers and performers. Mr. Supree was also a former member of the dance panel of the New York State Council on the Arts and was a member of the Bessie Awards committee at the time of his death.
        He is survived by his father, William, of the Bronx, and his brother, Robert, of Manhattan.
      