
        Dr. Irving J. Selikoff, the co-discoverer of a treatment for tuberculosis who went on to prove the hazards of asbestos and lead a campaign against its use, died on Wednesday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Ridgewood.
        He died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Mount Sinai Medical Center and School of Medicine, where he was affiliated for 51 years.
        Dr. Selikoff was a pioneer in environmental and occupational medicine. In 1966 he became the founding director of the nation's first hospital division dedicated to that field, at Mount Sinai in Manhattan. He was also a prize-winning researcher, educator and author and a relentless public advocate.
        In 1952 he and Dr. Edward H. Robitzek demonstrated the effectiveness of isoniazid as a new tuberculosis medicine, especially for patients not helped by other treatments. It proved a major advance in controlling the disease and is still widely used. Spotted an Unusual Illness
        Then Dr. Selikoff opened a lung clinic in Paterson, N.J., where he was alarmed to find unusual illnesses in 17 patients who worked at an asbestos plant.
        "It became clear as we were following these people that they were dying of cancer," he said. Within several years 15 were dead, 14 from lung cancer, asbestosis or mesothelioma.
        Although some industrialists resisted his research -- by refusing access to employee records, for example -- he persisted, enlisting the help of unions and even getting workers' names from the F.B.I.'s World War II security clearances.
        A larger study of several hundred asbestos workers also found abnormally high rates of death and cancer. That led to an even larger survey of 17,800 insulation workers, which confirmed the findings. Dr. Selikoff reported that people who worked with asbestos for less than a week had scarred lungs 30 years later. Safeguards Finally Come
        The Federal Government finally responded: In the 1970's the Occupational Safety and Health Administration imposed safeguards for workers, and in 1989 the Environmental Protection Administration imposed regulations to phase out most asbestos products.
        His findings also prompted billions of dollars in lawsuits that attributed workers' illnesses to exposure to asbestos on the job.
        Dr. Selikoff's work won awards from the American Public Health Association, the New York Academy of Sciences, Modern Medicine, the American Cancer Society and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        He was the former head of the American Thoracic Society, the Collegium Ramazzini and New York Academy of Medicine. He was a consultant to the World Health Organization, the National Cancer Institute and other agencies, businesses and unions.
        He wrote more than 350 scientific articles and two books, edited 11 books and founded two journals.
        Dr. Selikoff was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Columbia University in 1935 and earned his medical degree at the Royal Colleges of Scotland in 1941. He retired as division director at Mount Sinai in 1985 but remained active in research.
        There are no immediate survivors. His wife, the former Cecelia Shiffrin, died 1986.
      