
        Dr. Sergei A. Schelkunoff, an inventor and expert on electromagnetism who 60 years ago researched the coaxial cable now widely used for television transmission, died on May 2 at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center in Hightstown, N.J. He was 95 years old.
        He died of a heart ailment, a funeral home spokesman said.
        Born in Samara, Russia, Dr. Schelkunoff was a University of Moscow student when he was caught up in the tumult of World War I and the Bolshevik Revolution. Drafted and trained as a Russian Army officer in 1917, he fought and worked his way across Siberia into Manchuria and on to Japan before landing in Seattle, in 1921.
        He learned English and worked his way through school, earning both bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics from the State College of Washington, now the University of Washington, and a doctorate from Columbia University in 1928.
        Dr. Schelkunoff went to work for Western Electric's laboratories and its successor, Bell Labs. In 35 years there, he became assistant director of mathematical research and assistant vice president for university relations. Awarded 15 Patents
        The Government granted him 15 patents for radio antennas, resonators and wave-length guides. In 1935 he and three colleagues reported that the newly developed coaxial cable could transmit television or up to 200 telephone circuits. He specialized in coaxial's frequency, impedance, attenuation, coupling, shielding, circuit and field characteristics.
        Dr. Schelkunoff published four books and dozens of papers in scientific journals. He also taught for five years at Columbia University, where he retired in 1965.
        The Institute of Radio Engineers awarded him a prize for his contributions to radio wave transmission theory, and the Franklin Institute awarded him a medal for his communication and reconnaissance research.
        His research subjects included radar, electromagnetic wave propagation in the atmosphere and in microwave guides, short-wave radio, broad-band antennas and grounding. He served as a consultant on magnetrons to the United States Naval Station at San Diego.
        There are no immediate survivors. His wife of 51 years, the former Jean Kennedy, died in 1979.
      