
        George Mandel-Montello, a financier and businessman who played a central role in saving thousands of European Jews from Nazi death camps in World War II, died in Rome on April 25 of natural causes, according to David Kranzler, a professor emeritus of the City University of New York. Mr. Mandel-Montello was 90 years old.
        Born of Jewish parents in the Transylvanian region, in what is now Romania, Mr. Mandel-Montello was "one of the hidden heroes of the European rescue effort," Professor Kranzler said yesterday. Aided Rescue Operations
        He put aside his business activities in the early 1940's, after having been briefly detained by German forces in Yugoslavia, to devote himself to rescue operations, Professor Kranzler said. Mr. Mandel-Mantello escaped to Geneva, where he was given refuge by diplomats of El Salvador he had come to know through his business affairs.
        "He was in Vienna in 1938 when the Nazis took that city over, and in Prague in 1939 when the Nazis took that city over," Profesor Kranzler said. "He knew the Nazis, knew what they were capable of."
        From 1942 through the end of the war in 1945, Mr. Mandel-Montello, with the support of the Salvadoran Government, used his position as an honorary consul with the embassy to give Salvadoran citizenship papers to tens of thousands of Jews throughout Europe.
        Unlike passports, the citizenship papers did not enable their holders to emigrate, but they did afford a measure of protection. There was a lively underground market in the buying and selling of such papers from all countries, the professor said, but Mr. Mandel-Montello gave out at least 10,000 of these papers without charge.
        In 1944 he mounted his most ambitious effort -- to halt the Nazis' secret deportation of Jews from Budapest to Auschwitz. With the aid of a fellow diplomat and several Swiss theologians, he discovered and shepherded to publication two German documents that described in detail the operations of Auschwitz and the deportations of Hungarian Jews. Business in Switzerland
        The publication of the documents shocked some foreign governments and, Professor Kranzler said, persuaded the King of Sweden to send Raoul Wallenberg to Hungary to provide provide safe houses for those Jews who held Swedish passports.
        After the war, Mr. Mandel-Montello resumed business activities in Switzerland. He moved to Rome in 1953, where he lived for the rest of his life.
        In 1988, New York's Mayor, Edward I. Koch, awarded him the city's Eleanor Roosevelt Human Rights Medal, and in 1989, he received an honorary doctorate from Yeshiva University.
        Mr. Mandel-Montello's first wife, Irene Berger, died in the late 1940's. His second marriage ended in a divorce. He is survived by two sons -- Enrico of Geneva and Andrea of London and a daughter, Suzanna, of New York.
      