
        Dan Enright, a producer of some of television's best-known quiz shows who admitted playing a central role in the rigging scandals that shattered the industry in the late 1950's, died Friday in Los Angeles.
        He was 74 years old and died after a brief illness, a family spokesman said, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Enright, with his longtime partner, Jack Barry, created and produced "Concentration," the longest-running daytime game show in American television. The show was untouched by the scandals.
        They also originated hits like "21," "Tic Tac Dough" and "The Joker's Wild," as well as lesser known shows like "Hot Potato," "Life Begins at 80" and "Winky Dink and You."
        His career was nearly destroyed in 1959. After repeatedly denying accusations about rigging on the quiz shows, Mr. Enright confessed to Congressional investigators that he had authorized the manipulation of most "Tic Tac Dough" shows by giving contestants answers in advance and telling them to win or lose.
        Earlier, Mr. Enright was directly implicated by Herbert M. Stempel, a former contestant, in rigging "21." Mr. Stempel said that Mr. Enright had instructed him to end his winning streak "for the good of the game" and "take a dive" by losing to Charles Van Doren. Enright Never Prosecuted
        Mr. Van Doren went on to win $129,000 and become the most celebrated of quiz contestants, landing a job as an NBC network commentator, but he was ultimately dismissed for taking part in the scandals and lying about it.
        Rigging the shows did not violate the law at that time, but some of the people involved were prosecuted for perjury. Mr. Enright and Mr. Barry were not among them.
        But the Federal Communications Commission did force them to sell their television station in Hollywood, Fla. The agency said their "prolonged deception practiced on the television-viewing public" was "patently and flagrantly contrary to the public interest."
        When the scandals broke, Mr. Enright recounted in testimony before Congressional investigators "the terror and panic that besieged us" and said his television career was over. He defended his actions to the investigators, saying, "A degree of deception is of considerable value in producing shows." Comeback Brings Emmy
        He eventually made a comeback, reuniting with Mr. Barry, and revived the "Tic Tac Dough" show. Mr. Barry died in 1984.
        Mr. Enright said that the scandals "couldn't happen again." "For one thing it's a Federal offense now," he said.
        In 1990 Mr. Enright won an Emmy award as executive producer of "Caroline," a CBS Hallmark Hall of Fame presentation.
        Mr. Enright, who grew up in Israel, helped organize Israel's radio network in 1951. Twenty years later he returned at Prime Minister Golda Meir's invitation to make recommendations on its television system.
        His broadcast career started in New York City, where he was an audio engineer at WNYC radio. He met Mr. Barry, an announcer for the "Uncle Don" children's show on WOR. They teamed up in 1947, creating "Juvenile Jury," a hit radio show, and in 1948 placed it on NBC television as the first commercially sponsored show on that network.
        Mr. Enright is survived by his wife, Stella; a son, Don, and a daughter, Erica.
      