
        Francis G. Fitzpatrick, whose elections as the insurgent Mayor of Bayonne, N.J., and as Hudson County Democratic chairman signaled the demise of an old-line political machine 20 years ago, died on Friday at Bayonne Hospital. He was 89 years old and lived in Bayonne.
        He died of cancer, a family spokesman said.
        A longtime independent Democrat, Mr. Fitzpatrick was a leader in the move to oust the corruption-riddled party organization, overturning half a century of domination by two legendary political bosses, Frank Hague and John V. Kenny.
        Mr. Fitzpatrick's election as the director of the Hudson County Board of Freeholders in 1951 was an early setback to the party regulars, but they regained control and ousted him.
        Later he became the Commissioner of Bayonne, the city's top post, then led a campaign to change the city's form of government to a strong mayoralty. He won the first election for the new mayor's post and served from 1962 through 1974. During his terms, urban renewal projects and a new City Hall were built, and the city's finances were stabilized.  Appointed to State Post
        The final blow to the old regime came with Mayor Fitzpatrick's selection as chairman of the county party from 1972 through 1974. He won the job as an ally of Paul T. Jordan, the young Mayor of Jersey City, in a reform coalition.
        But soon then two strong-minded mayors had a falling out. Their feud and power struggle was resolved only when Gov. Brendan T. Byrne appointed Mr. Fitzpatrick chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority.
        He served in the state post from 1975 to 1984, and during his tenure the turnpike agency reached record highs in use and record lows in traffic fatalities.
        A tough advocate who relished the rough-and-tumble of politics, he called the state Democratic chairman a liar in 1972 and, citing losses in statewide contests, demanded his ouster. The chairman, Salvatore A. Bontempo, declined to comply. Even after Mr. Fitzpatrick assumed his state post, he kept his hand in local political disputes.
        Born in Brooklyn, he moved to Bayonne as a youngster and never left. He worked days in oil refineries while studying at night. He graduated from John Marshall College in 1927 and earned his law degree there in 1930. He began working as an administrator in Bayonne government, then went into private law practice in the 1940's.
        First elected a freeholder in 1945, he served on that board through 1951.
        He was the Bayonne Commissioner from 1959 to 1962.
        Surviving are his wife of 57 years, the former Marion Tierney; a son, F. Gerald, of Bayonne, and four grandchildren.
      