
        Robert Gladstein, a West Coast choreographer, ballet master and choreography reconstructor, died on Tuesday night at his home in San Francisco. He was 49 years old.
        He died of cancer, said a friend, Martin Devin.
        Mr. Gladstein danced with major companies on the East and West Coasts and staged productions around the country. But he was primarily associated with San Francisco and was an assistant director of the San Francisco Ballet. He was proud of the area's dance heritage, and did much in recent years to preserve works by San Francisco choreographers.
        Mr. Gladstein was a native of Berkeley, Calif., and studied at the San Francisco Ballet School, joining the company in 1960. He made his choreographic debut in 1962 by creating "Opus One," to music by Prokofiev, for the company's summer workshop. From 1964 to 1971 he was married to Nancy Robinson, a member of the company.
        Mr. Gladstein moved to New York in 1967 and joined American Ballet Theater. He returned to California in 1970 as a principal dancer of the San Francisco Ballet; in 1975 he was appointed the company's ballet master and, in 1980, assistant director and artistic coordinator, posts he held until 1986. He was ballet master for the Dallas Ballet from 1986 to 1988.  Works Bountiful and Diverse
        A choreographer of more than 30 ballets, Mr. Gladstein created such varied works as "N.R.A.," a tribute to the 1930's, and "Symphony in Three Movements," an abstraction to music by Stravinsky. When the San Francisco Ballet appeared in 1980 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, praised Mr. Gladstein's "Psalms" for being a "sensitive view of an Israeli generation caught up in a state of war."
        Mr. Gladstein was a member of the dance advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts from 1981 to 1986. At the time of his death, he was a board member of the San Francisco Archive for the Performing Arts. For the San Francisco Ballet's 50th-anniversary gala in 1983, he reconstructed excerpts from "Ballet Mecanique," an Expressionist work of 1933 by Adolph Bolm, the company's founder.
        As coordinator of the Christensen Collection, Mr. Gladstein revived choreography by Lew Christensen, who became director of the San Francisco Ballet in 1951 and helped the company achieve international importance. After Mr. Christensen's death in 1984, Mr. Gladstein staged many of his ballets, under the Christensen Collection's auspices, for such troupes as the Louisville Ballet, the Pennsylvania Ballet, the Milwaukee Ballet, State Ballet of Missouri and Ballet Omaha.
        Mr. Gladstein's companion was Bart Rawlinson.
        Mr. Gladstein is survived by a son, Marcus Gladstein of Los Angeles; his mother, Wilda Gladstein of Novato, Calif., and a sister, Sally Gladstein of Roseville, Calif.
      