
        Maria Alba, a noted flamenco dancer and popular teacher in New York City, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Shigeko Suga, a spokeswoman for Miss Alba's family, declined to give Miss Alba's age.
        She died of cancer, Miss Suga said .
        Over a career of three decades, Miss Alba became known not only for the passion of her dancing but also for the hint of wry humor she brought to the flamenco stage. Her last performance was in May, in Miss Suga's flamenco-Butoh adaptation of Jean Genet's "Balcon," performed at La Mama in Manhattan. Miss Alba performed a memorably powerful, haunted wraith as the young prostitute Chantal.  Calm to Wild
        Miss Alba's dancing ranged from understatement to earthy flamboyance. "She is not a Spanish dancer who needs to move quickly or to make a lot of noise with heel and toe beats," Allen Hughes wrote in The New York Times in 1965. "She can do both with a fine fury, but they are only incidental elements in her arsenal of expressivity. She is, quite simply, one of those rare dancers who can stand still and make you hold your breath in anticipation of what might happen next."
        Miss Alba, was was among New York's best-known flamenco teachers, conducted classes up to her death. Several generations of students, including Gelsey Kirkland and William Carter, worked with her in the battered old Fazil's Rehearsal Studio in the theater district, and at at universities around the country.
        Miss Alba, who was an American of Irish ancestry, began her career as a Broadway gypsy, making her professional debut as dancer in the original production of "The King and I." She said she fell in love with flamenco after seeing a performance by Carmen Amaya, and studied with Mariquita Flores before traveling to Spain for lessons with Regla Ortega and La Kika. There Miss Alba became a star performer with the Ximenez-Vargas Ballet Espagnol.
        She founded a troupe with Ramon de los Reyes in the mid-1960's and later had several companies of her own that toured throughout the world. She appeared for seven consecutive summers at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass. Miss Alba also performed as a guest artist on many flamenco programs in New York.
        She is survived by her stepmother, Ruth Fitzmaurice, and two brothers, Owen and James Fitzmaurice, all of Minneapolis.
      