
        Joyce Macwatty Black, called "the ultimate volunteer" for her nearly 40 years as an officer of more than 75 charitable organizations and government panels, died on Tuesday at her summer home in Nantucket, Mass. She was 65 years old, and her primary residence was in Manhattan.
        She died of metastasized breast cancer, her family said.
        As a leader in many causes, Mrs. Black became an expert on volunteerism and served as a consultant and coordinator of volunteer activities at local, state and Federal levels.
        Last year, President Bush appointed her to the National Community and Service Commission. She was also an officer in the National Center for Voluntary Action and co-chairwoman of the National Congress on Volunteerism and Citizenship.
        Mrs. Black served as the co-chairwoman of New York City's Voluntary Action Council under Mayors John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. Since 1986, she had been the executive director of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Office for Voluntary Service, the only paid job she ever held. Won Mayoral Award 3 Times
        In 1988, Leonard W. Stern, executive director of the National Assembly, a coalition of charitable organizations, called her "the ultimate volunteer."
        "She has probably done more work in more organizations at higher levels and had more influence than any private citizen," he said at the time.
        Three times she won the Mayoral Award for Outstanding Voluntary Service. She was also honored by the New York Medical Society, the Hospital Association of New York State and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, among others.
        Children and health were her major themes and she was a leading advocate of improving day and foster care.
        At her death, she was president of the Day Care Council of New York City. She had also headed the Child Welfare League of America, the Y.M.W.C.A. Day Care Corporation and the New York State Advisory Committee on Day Care.
        Appointed by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, she was the first woman to serve on the New York State Banking Board. She was also the first woman to become the local and national president of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of America and the first to serve as a trustee of New York University Medical Center. 'Born Into a Good Life'
        Born in Englewood, N.J., Mrs. Black grew up in in Ridgewood, N.J. While studying at Skidmore College, where she graduated in 1948, she volunteered as a nurse's aide.
        She attributed her career to her family roots, a pledge she made during an illness and guidance from an educator. Her grandfather, James Harkness, was a prosperous and civic-minded businessman. "I was born into a good life," she said, "and was encouraged to give back what I could."
        Stricken with polio as a young adult, she said she vowed to help others if she recovered. When she considered becoming a social worker, she said Dr. Alex Rosen, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, had told her, "You will do a lot more good going on boards, raising money and getting involved in direct service to meet community needs."
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      