
        Grace T. Hamilton, a pioneer in racial integration who worked to give blacks a political voice in Atlanta, died on Wednesday at the Briarcliff Haven Nursing Home in Atlanta. She was 85 years old and lived in Atlanta.
        Mrs. Hamilton was in the forefront of efforts to improve the lives of blacks and the poor through jobs, education, housing, health care and child care.
        She was known for her diplomacy. Julian Bond, the former State Senator in Georgia, called her "a real pathfinder."
        She was the first black woman elected to the Georgia Legislature, where she served in the General Assembly from 1966 to 1984.
        As a legislator, Mrs. Hamilton was instrumental in expanding black representation in Atlanta's City Council. She drafted a law that authorized a revision of the city charter, then served as the charter commission's vice chairwoman. In 1973 the charter amended the citywide Council elections by adding 12 district seats, enabling heavily black areas to elect black candidates.
        Earlier, Mrs. Hamilton headed the local Urban League for 18 years, starting in 1943, when blacks were largely excluded from power. Democratic candidates were virtually guaranteed of winning general elections, but only whites were allowed to vote in the party's primaries.
        Mrs. Hamilton also promoted voter registration and fought for more aid to black schools, and she worked to end segregation across the South as the associate director of the Southern Regional Council and as a leader in the Highlander Folk School, a training institute.
        She was a trustee of Clark Atlanta University and Meharry Medical College and served on the boards of the Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority and the National Young Women's Christian Association.
        Mrs. Hamilton was born in Atlanta. Her father, George Towns, was a professor at Clark Atlanta University. She graduated there in 1927 and received a master's degree in psychology from Ohio State University in 1929.
        In 1930 she married Henry C. Hamilton, a dean at LeMoyne-Owen College in Memphis. She taught there and also worked on a Federal survey of black workers and on a college integration program. She returned to Atlanta in 1943 when her husband joined Morehouse College. He died in 1987.
        She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Payne of Atlanta; a sister, Harriet Jenkins of Shaker Heights, Ohio; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      