
        Cathy E. Bennett, who pioneered new strategies for picking and persuading juries, died Tuesday at her home in Galveston, Tex. She was 41 years old.
        She died of breast cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Bennett was considered the nation's leading authority on jury selection. Last year the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers gave her a lifetime achievement award.
        Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America."
        As a consultant in 850 civil and criminal cases she helped lawyers select jurors, and she promoted her approach in articles, speeches, seminars and courses at the National Criminal Defense College in Macon, Ga.
        In her last famous case, she assisted the successful defense of William K. Smith against rape charges.
        She was also an adviser in trials that won $20 million in judgments against the Ku Klux Klan, the White Aryan Resistance Group and skinheads.
        Her work started with the case of the Oglala Sioux Indians prosecuted for a shootout with Federal agents at Wounded Knee, S.D., in 1973, and developed into a full-time career. Among her other cases were the dispute over Howard Hughes's will and the 1984 trial in which John Z. DeLorean was acquitted of cocaine charges.
        She recommended that lawyers ask prospective jurors not if they were for or against an issue but open-ended questions to elicit their own thoughts, which she found to be more revealing.
        Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
        Surviving are her husband, Robert B. Hirschhorn; her parents, Glenn and Jimmie Ellis of Hot Springs, Ark.; a brother, William Glenn Ellis of Houston, a sister, Rebecca Ellis Christy of Dallas; and a stepson, Matthew Hirschhorn of Arvada, Colo.
      