
        Robert William Haack, who led the New York Stock Exchange during a period of crisis and change and later became the chairman of the Lockheed Corporation, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Haack died of complications from kidney failure, his family said.
        A tall, amiable Midwesterner with a talent for public speaking, Mr. Haack in 1967 left the presidency of the National Association of Securities Dealers, where he had served for three years, to take the top full-time post at the New York Stock Exchange. A longtime stockbroker, Mr. Haack was viewed on Wall Street as the perfect choice to lead the nation's largest stock exchange after more than a decade of growth.
        In his early years as the new spokesman for Wall Street, Mr. Haack was faced with enormous upheaval. The boom years were beginning to wear on Wall Street, with average daily volume on the exchange having grown from 1.7 million shares traded to more than 10 million shares. Unable to handle the flood of paperwork churned out by the steady growth, the exchange was forced to begin closing one and a half hours earlier.  Emphasis on Automation
        He put a high priority on development of several automation programs, including one intended to reduce the physical movement of securities from one brokerage house to another.
        That push toward automation has had long-term repercussions on Wall Street and still wins Mr. Haack praise today. "Among his many accomplishments was to bring technology to the back office, a bold initiative that laid the foundation for today's high-tech securities industry," William H. Donaldson, the current chairman and chief executive of the Big Board, said yesterday.
        As the 1960's drew to a close, Wall Street began to experience its greatest crisis since the Depression. Between 1968 and 1970, as the boom in stocks gave weight to a bear market, dozens of brokerage firms, including nationally known names such as Hayden, Stone, Inc. and F. I. du Pont, collapsed or were forced into mergers. With public confidence in the brokerage industry shaken, Mr. Haack worked with Congress to develop the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, or S.I.P.C.
        The new corporation provided much-needed security to investors who had begun to fear they would lose their savings if their brokerage concerns collapsed. Issue of Commission Rates
        Mr. Haack's aggressive work on behalf of the industry, as well as his deep roots on Wall Street, did not slow the criticism he generated on Wall Street for attacking some of the industry's sacred cows. In a controversial speech before the Economic Club of New York on Nov. 17, 1970, Mr. Haack, saying that the exchange was no longer "the only game in town," publicly called for reform of the New York Stock Exchange itself, proposing that the management of the Big Board be reorganized to open up an institution that until then had been something of a private club.
        The speech, which split the leadership of the securities industry and led to some calls for Mr. Haack's dismissal, also attacked fixed commission rates, which were then the lifeblood of Wall Street. Commission rates were the prices paid by the public to brokerage houses for buying or selling stocks. Under the system in effect at the time, the New York Stock Exchange effectively set the minimum rates for the entire industry, blocking competition for lower-cost producers.
        While the speech alienated some members of the Board of Governors, it proved to be prophetic. Fixed commission rates were abandoned in May 1975, in what is widely regarded as one of the most significant changes in the industry's history. The change has allowed greater competition among brokers.
        Mr. Haack was born on Feb. 15, 1917, in Milwaukee. He graduated from Hope College in Holland, Mich., in 1938 and from Harvard Business School in 1940. That year he began his career in the securities industry as a stockbroker with Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee.
        In 1976, in the wake of the international bribery scandals involving Lockheed and other American corporations, Mr. Haack was named chairman of the financially troubled company, a post he held for 20 months. During that time, he worked to restore confidence in the company and revised its finances based around a Federal loan guarantee.
        Mr. Haack is survived by his wife, the former Ann Thornett Miller; a son, Thomas, of Darien, Conn.; three daughters, Barbara Sexton of Greenwich, Conn., and Elizabeth Barr and Linda Brooks, both of Potomac, and six grandchildren.
      