
        James Gibson, who had served on New York State's highest court and wrote the decision that upheld the constitutionality of the phrase "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance, died on Friday at the Glens Falls Hospital in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 90 years old and had lived in Hudson Falls, N.Y.
        The cause of death was not known, his family said.
        Judge Gibson issued notable opinions on issues ranging from abortion to the use of the American flag in art and protests. Fiscal Crisis Case
        He was also given the responsibility in 1977 of presiding over the complex litigation over New York City's defaulting on $1 billion of notes in the fiscal crisis. The resolution of the case, which was critical to restoring the city's credit rating, entailed the awarding of 15,000 judgments and deciding how much interest the city must pay.
        Judge Gibson was most widely known for his 1964 ruling on the Pledge of Allegiance. The phrase "under God" was challenged as a violation of the constitutional separation of church and state. As an Associate Justice of the Appellate Division, he ruled that the phrase was legal. His decision was upheld by the state's Court of Appeals. When the case was taken to the United States Supreme Court, the High Court declined to review it , effectively leaving Judge Gibson's ruling as the law of the land.
        Sitting on Court of Appeals, Judge Gibson wrote the majority opinion in 1970 that upheld a law against desecrating the American flag. The case involved an art dealer prosecuted for displaying a work portraying the flag in a phallic shape. The law was challenged as a violation of constitutional free speech.
        He dissented in a 4-to-3 vote in 1972 that upheld a state policy of banning Medicaid funds to pay for abortions. He wrote: "Those individuals with insufficient funds for adequate medical care will once again bear the brunt of the unfortunate and often tragic consequences." Eventually the policy changed.
        Judge Gibson was born in Salem, N.Y., near the Vermont border. He was the son and great-grandson of judges. After graduating from Princeton in 1923 and Albany Law School in 1926, he began a general law practice in Hudson Falls. In World War II, he served as a captain in the Army.
        In 1935 he won election as the Republican District Attorney of Washington County, a post his father once held, and was the state's youngest prosecutor at the time. In 1952 he was elected to the State Supreme Court. In 1955 he was promoted to the Appellate Division and was appointed to terms by Governors Averell Harriman, a Democrat, and Nelson A. Rockefeller, a Republican.
        He became Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division. He served on the board that ran the state's courts and personally administered the courts in 28-counties. His tenure on the Court of Appeals was from 1969-78. He continued as a judge on special assignment until he retired in 1984.
        His wife of 25 years, the former Judith Angell, is deceased. He is survived by two daughters, Judith Conklin of Tully, N.Y., and Caroline Nugent of Xenia, Ohio; a brother, Angus of Salem; five grandchildren and one great grandson.
      