
        Arthur Knapp Jr., a yachtsman whose lifelong passion for the sport ranged from the America's Cup races of the 1930's to frostbite sailing on Long Island Sound, died on Monday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        He died of leukemia after a long illness, according to his daughter, Corliss Engle.
        Mr. Knapp was born in Bayside, Queens, where he began sailing when he was 6 years old. In 1916, his father, Arthur Knapp Sr., bought him his first boat -- a 12-foot Butterfly Class dinghy -- for $20. Two years later, the young Knapp moved up to a bigger craft, a 22-foot Star Class keelboat. The Star boat was the beginning of what Mr. Knapp once described as his extended "love affair" with the class. He won the Star Class world championship as a crew member in 1924 and as a skipper in 1930.
        Mr. Knapp graduated from Princeton University, where in 1928 he was victorious in the university's first intercollegiate regatta, against Yale and Harvard. That same year, he began work at the New York Stock Exchange, where he was a stock broker until his retirement in 1974. From 1976 to 1981, he was a senior consultant for Ratsey & Lapthorn, a British sailmaking firm.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Knapp made yachting his avocation. In 1924, he won the Sears Cup, the junior national sailing championship. His interest in sailing was year-round. In 1932, he and a group of sailors from the Long Island Sound area formed the Frostbite Yacht Club, a stalwart group that began racing small, interclub dinghies during the winter months. From 1946 to 1966, he won the annual Larchmont Yacht Club's frostbite series 14 times.
        Mr. Knapp retired from frostbiting in 1966 because of severe arthritis in his legs. "I wanted to quit while I was ahead," he once said. In 1983, he wrote: "I sit on the founders' porch of the Larchmont Yacht Club in the winter, mostly every Sunday, watching my beloved dinghy fleet out there freezing to death and wishing that my arthritis would go away and let me join them."
        In 1937, Mr. Knapp crewed as a sailtrimmer aboard Harold S. (Mike) Vanderbilt's J-boat Ranger in the America's Cup race series. Ranger beat Endeavour II, Britain's challenger, 4-0.
        Mr. Knapp was the author of "Race Your Boat Right." (Van Nostrand, 1952).
        Mr. Knapp is survived by his daughter, Mrs. Engle of Brookline, Mass., and two grandsons.
      