
        Josef Warkany, a pediatric researcher who helped focus the attention of modern medicine on the hazards of the nine months of life in the womb, died on Monday at the Scarlet Oaks Retirement Community in Clifton, Ohio, near Cincinnati. He was 90 years old.
        He died of a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Warkany's discoveries helped create the medical specialty of teratology, which includes the study of the fetus as well as efforts to cure and prevent the prenatal ailments responsible for much of the infant death rate. He contended that congenital ills should be treated medically just like postnatal ailments.
        Before Dr. Warkany's work gained attention, medicine too often neglected the first nine months of life, said Dr. Peter Dignan, a longtime colleague at the Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center.
        Dr. Warkany, called the father of teratology, was the founding president of the Teratology Society and helped develop the field as a certified specialty.
        In a conceptual breakthrough in 1940, he proved that environmental factors can cause birth defects. He showed in laboratory animals that dietary deficiencies in pregnancy could cause abnormalities in the offspring. Before his findings, birth defects were attributed to genetics.
        In another major contribution, Dr. Warkany discovered the cause of acrodynia, or pink disease, enabling its eradication. The symptoms of acrodynia, which affects children, includes reddened limbs, hair and teeth loss, hypertension, weight loss, and even death. Dr. Warkany found that in a single decade in England, acrodynia had killed 585 children.
        His investigation found that the culprit was mercury poisoning from teething powders, ointments and other remedies. Once mercury was removed as an ingredient, the disease became rare.
        Dr. Warkany founded the human genetics division of the Children's Hospital and also the institution that evolved into the Cincinnati Center for Developmental Disorders. He was also instrumental in persuading the March of Dimes to turn its attention to birth defects after vaccines conquered poliomyelitis. Fled the Nazis
        He wrote "Congenital Malformations" (Yearbook, 1971), a 1,300-page text that Dr. Dignan called impressive for its scope, technical detail and philosophical erudition.
        Dr. Warkany retired several years ago as a fellow of the Children's Hospital Research Foundation and a professor at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine.
        Dr. Warkany was born in Vienna and completed his education at the University of Vienna. A Jew, he fled the rise of Nazism in 1932 and emigrated to the United States.
        His wife of 50 years, the former Suzanne Buhlmann, is deceased. He is survived by two sons, J. H. Warkany and Steve F. Warkany, both of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      