
        Gustave Schirmer 4th, a theatrical director, producer and agent, died on Wednesday at the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. He was 73 years old and lived in Hollywood.
        He died of kidney failure, said Frank Liberman, a friend.
        Mr. Schirmer, who was the last member of his family to be named for the founder of G. Schirmer Inc., the music publishing firm, was known professionally as Gus Schirmer Jr. He began his career as an actor and appeared in "New Faces of 1934" with Imogene Coca and Henry Fonda. He promoted the careers of many performers, including Shirley Jones, Lee Remick and Sandy Duncan. He also managed Carol Channing and Ethel Merman.
        He directed Tallulah Bankhead in "Dear Charles" on Broadway in 1954 and later staged her Las Vegas nightclub act. He also directed musicals for City Center, among them "Pal Joey" with Bob Fosse, "Wonderful Town" with Elaine Stritch and "Guys and Dolls" with Sheila MacRae. Among the productions he directed for regional theater were "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" and "Desk Set," both with Shirley Booth, at the Westport Theater in Connecticut. He was among the first to package and direct touring productions with stars.
        Mr. Schirmer produced several shows Off Broadway, including "A Party With Comden and Green" at the Cherry Lane Theater in 1958, a production that moved to Broadway later that year, and "Gay Divorce" with Beatrice Arthur in 1960. His last directing job was the 1970 Broadway revival of "The Boy Friend" starring Sandy Duncan.
        In 1972 Mr. Schirmer moved to Los Angeles to become a booking and casting director. Among his projects were Wes Craven's "Hills Have Eyes," Sylvia Fine Kaye's "Musical Comedy Tonight" for public television and Jim Henson's "Muppet Movie." He also worked for the three television networks and helped recruit talent to raise money for charities, including Dream Street, an organization for terminally ill children.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      