
        Philip Dunne, a leading screenwriter who was a founder of the Screen Writers Guild and a vigorous opponent of the House Committee on Un-American Activities in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        He died of cancer, said a daughter, Philippa Dunne.
        Mr. Dunne was the writer or co-writer of 36 films and the director of 10.  His writing credits include "'How Green Was My Valley," "Suez," "The Count of Monte Cristo," "Stanley and Livingston" and "The Ghost and Mrs. Muir." He was nominated twice for an Academy Award for screenwriting, for "How Green Was My Valley," in 1941, and "David and Bathsheba," in 1951.  A Career Is Born
        Philip Dunne was born in New York City on Feb. 11, 1908, the son of the political humorist Finley Peter Dunne, whose alter ego was the mythical Irish barkeeper Mr. Dooley. His mother was Margaret Abbott, a gold medalist in golf in the 1900 Olympics. He attended the Middlesex School and graduated from Harvard in 1929. He arrived in Hollywood the next year and his first job was as a reader at the old 20th Century-Fox studio on Western Avenue. He spent most of the remainder of his career with Fox.
        Mr. Dunne was a founder and early officer of the Screen Writers Guild, the precursor of the Writers Guild of America. During World War II, he was the head of production for the Motion Picture Bureau of the Office of War Information, for which he made such documentary films as "The American Scene" series. In 1947, when the blacklist began to consume postwar Hollywood, Mr. Dunne, with the directors John Huston and William Wyler, formed the Committee for the First Amendment to protest the procedures of the House Committee on Un-American Activities. This group, with a brigade of movie stars, sponsored radio broadcasts and went to Washington in an ill-fated attempt to defend the so-called Hollywood 10, the writers and directors who would soon be in prison for refusing to name names or say whether they had belonged to the Communist Party.
        In recent years, Mr. Dunne was a syndicated columnist and essayist for publications including The Los Angeles Times and Time magazine, writing on a wide range of subjects, including astronomy, mathematics, music, aviation and politics. His autobiography, "Take Two: A Life in Movies and Politics," was published in 1980 and was recently reissued.
        In addition to his daughter Philippa Dunne of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Amanda Duff Dunne, of Malibu; two other daughters, Miranda Dunne of Los Angeles and Jessica Dunne of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      