
        Perry London, a psychologist and educator who studied the altruistic behavior of people who rescued Jews from the Holocaust, died on Friday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Edison, N.J.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Dr. London had been the dean of the Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology at Rutgers University since 1989. Author and Consultant
        He was noted for his studies of altruism, especially those involving people who risked their own lives to save Jews in World War II. He also specialized in hypnosis, traumatic stress suffered by soldiers and the problems of children.
        Earlier, he taught at the University of Illinois, Stanford University, the University of Southern California, Bell Laboratories, Tel Aviv University, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Harvard University, where he was also the director of the counseling and consulting psychology program.
        Dr. London wrote books and articles and was a consultant to several agencies, including the Israeli Air Force and the United States Department of Health and Human Services. He served on the boards of the Northwest Institute for the Study of Ethnics, the University of Judaism in Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Hillel Council.
        He was born in Omaha. After graduating from Yeshiva College in 1952, he earned a master's degree in psychology at Columbia University in 1953 and a doctorate there in 1956. He served five years in the Unites States Army Medical Service.
        His first marriage ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of 14 years, the former Beverly Secrest; two sons, Steven Rose of Minneapolis and Kenneth Rose of Boulder, Colo.; five daughters, Miriam London Hinman of Barry, Vt., Yael Wyshograd of Rechovot, Israel, and Susan Sappir and Debra and Donna Rose, all of Jerusalem; three sisters, Becky Gorodetzer of Lake Worth, Fla., Marsha Porier of Durham, N.C., and Sylvia Doron of Kibbutz Geva, Israel, and eight grandchildren.
      