
        Robert Morley, the portly, jowly character actor of the British and American stage and screen, best known for his comically pompous and jovial roles, died yesterday at a hospital in Reading, west of London. He was 84 years old.
        He died after a stroke on Sunday afternoon at his home in Wargrave, a village near Reading, his son Sheridan Morley, a British theater critic and biographer, said in a statement issued in London.
        Mr. Morley, whose career spanned well over a half-century, was not only one of the busiest actors of his time, but was also an all-around man of the theater, serving as a director and producer in addition to appearing in London and on Broadway in such plays as "Oscar Wilde" and "Edward, My Son," the latter a drama that he co-wrote.
        He also had roles in dozens of movies and television productions, was a regular on the television talk-show circuit, and won a devoted, almost cultlike following as the merry television commercial spokesman for British Airways in the United States in the 1970's and early 80's, assuring prospective travelers that "we'll take good care of you."
        In real life as well as on stage and screen, Mr. Morley was famous for his often irreverent wit. Of his rotund physique, for example, he once commented, "My only exercise was winding my watch, but that proved too exhausting, so now I have a self-winding watch."  A Talent to Amuse
        An actor who refused to take himself or his profession too seriously, Mr. Morley maintained that he never aspired to greatness, preferring to be regarded as "an entertainer rather than a dedicated actor."
        "After all, acting is my way of earning a living," he said with characteristic directness. "There's a legend that actors impatiently fret when they're not acting. I've never met such an actor. Good actors act to live; they don't live to act. The keener somebody is to act, the worse actor he is. It's not a sacred call, acting. It is probably a great art, but I just don't think it is."
        That is why he never sought to play major Shakespearean roles after becoming a star, although he was often asked to take a fling at Falstaff, he wrote in 1967 in what he called a "reluctant autobiography."
        "I have the highest regard for those members of my profession who continue to act in Shakespeare's plays," Mr. Morley said, "but I have reached an age where I can no longer bear to watch them doing so."  Stagestruck in Kindergarten
        Mr. Morley, who was born on May 26, 1908, in Semley, Wiltshire, the prototypical English character actor was the son of a career army officer, Maj. Robert Wilton Morley, and the former Gertrude Emily Fass. He said he was stage-struck from the moment he acted in a kindergarten play, and early on he announced his intention to "loaf about on the stage," an ambition that "horrified and terrified" his parents, who wanted him to be a diplomat.
        As a compromise, he tried a business career, taking a job as a beer salesman, but gave that up after six months and entered the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. His professional acting debut came two days after his 20th birthday, at the Hippodrome in Margate in 1928, in the bit part of a smuggler in a melodrama.
        Mr. Morley's London debut came a year later, earning him $5 a week for a minor role as a pirate in "Treasure Island" at the Strand Theater. "I was not a very good pirate, but there was a lot of me, and I thought the management should pay a lot more," he said years later.
        Years of touring followed, with Mr. Morley playing many English butlers and an occasional small role in an Ibsen or Shakespeare play. Once, between engagements, he sold vacuum cleaners door to door, and, he said, "In those six months I learned more about acting than ever before or since on the stage."
        In 1935 the young actor wrote a stage comedy, "Short Story," which he quickly sold to the actress Marie Tempest. Miss Tempest and Sybil Thorndike had a respectable six-month run in the play, which gave Mr. Morley a foothold in London theater circles. Later, he wrote two other plays, "Goodness, How Sad!" and "Staff Dance," and co-wrote five others.
        His success as an actor was confirmed in 1936 when he won enthusiastic reviews in the title role of "Oscar Wilde," a courtroom drama by Leslie and Sewell Stokes based on the transcripts of the libel trials in which the writer self-destructively and tragically exposed details of his scandalous sex life. A year later, Mr. Morley appeared as Henry Higgins in Shaw's "Pygmalion."  A Regal Role in Hollywood
        The New York production of "Oscar Wilde" was postponed so that Mr. Morley could go to Hollywood in 1938 to appear in his first motion picture, "Marie Antoinette," as King Louis XVI, opposite Norma Shearer. He was only 30 years old, but his already considerable girth and receding hairline made him convincing in the role of the middle-aged and kindly, but dimwitted, monarch.
        Mr. Morley was named the best actor in 1938 by the New York drama critics for his performance in "Oscar Wilde," but the Broadway run was cut short so he could return home. "There was a nasty war on, which I survived: no inconsiderable achievement," he said. "I didn't fight; I acted. They thought actors were less dangerous to our side in the theater than on the battlefield."
        He appeared memorably in the movie version of Shaw's "Major Barbara" in 1939, as the millionaire arms manufacturer Andrew Undershaft. The next year, Mr. Morley married Joan Buckmaster, a daughter of the actress Gladys Cooper.
        Among the plays in which Mr. Morley starred in London were "The Man Who Came to Dinner," "The Little Hut," "The First Gentleman," "A Majority of One" and "Fanny." Helped Write His Best Role
        His greatest stage success, in London and New York, was in "Edward, My Son," which Mr. Morley co-wrote with Noel Langley. He gave himself the flamboyant central role of Arnold Holt, a ruthless newspaper magnate who, for the sake of his adored but wastrel son, connives, bullies and lies his way to power and wealth while driving his wife into pathetic alcoholism.
        Brooks Atkinson, the chief theater critic of The New York Times, wrote of Mr. Morley in his signature role: "Since he is tall and massive, his acting is in the grand manner. It becomes him; his acting would probably be silly on any other scale. He speaks with a studied authority that might sound like an affectation in an actor of inferior style."
        Mr. Morley's major movies included "The African Queen" (1951), in which he was Katharine Hepburn's brother; "Gilbert and Sullivan" (1953), as the lyricist W. S. Gilbert; "Beat the Devil," the 1954 John Huston and Truman Capote spoof of the international intrigue genre, in which Mr. Morley was the seedy Sydney Greenstreet-like gang leader, and "Oscar Wilde," the 1960 film version of his earlier stage triumph.
        Among other Morley films were "Topkapi" (1964), "Song of Norway" (1970), "The Blue Bird" (1976) and "Who Is Killing the Great Chefs of Europe?" (1978). He did not appear in the film version of "Edward, My Son" -- Spencer Tracy got his role -- but the live television version in 1955 did star Mr. Morley and it was enormously successful.
        Mr. Morley was also the author of five books of reminiscences, the last of which, "Around the World in 81 Years," was published two years ago.
        He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1957.
        In addition to his son Sheridan, he is survived by his wife; another son, Wilton, of Florida, and a daughter, Annabel, who lives in Australia.
      