
        Robert H. de Lone, a consultant on education who advocated school reforms to lift children out of poverty, died on Tuesday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 52 years old and lived in Mount Airy, Pa.
        His family said he died of lymphoma.
        Most recently, Mr. de Lone helped to update vocational education in the Philadelphia public schools with the assistance of a group of employers. His contention was that the system had stagnated and no longer gave graduates the skills to succeed in today's job market.
        From 1971 to 1973, Mr. de Lone was assistant commissioner for education and training in New York City's Addication Services Agency. There, he helped to develop a program to keep drugs out of the public schools. Long Research, Then Book
        He was the author of "Small Change: Children, Inequality and the Limits of Liberal Reform" (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1979), based on seven years of research. It was written as a report to the Carnegie Council of Children, for which he served as policy analyst.
        The report showed that, try as they might, the children of parents who were poor and read poorly were far less likely to finish college and land a high-paying jobs than the offspring of the well-to-do and educated. In that, his research found, not much had changed since the 19th century, and nothing at all since World War II.
        Mr. de Lone graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University, where he was an Ivy League champion shot-putter, and held a master's degreee from the University of California at Berkeley. He joined the School District of Philadelphia in 1967 as special assistant to the superintendent.
        He later lectured on educational administration at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, until he went to New York City during the final years of Mayor John V. Lindsay's administration. Following his work for the Carnegie Council on Children, he became executive director in 1977 and later president of Public/Private Ventures in Philadelphia. At the time of his death he was senior consultant to that national, nonprofit research firm.
        Mr. de Lone is survived by his wife, the former Susan Trachtenberg; a son, Anderson P. of Philadelphia; three daughters, Madeline Cohen of Manhattan and Sarah and Elizabeth, both of Mount Airy; his parents, H. Francis and Madeline de Lone of Paoli, Pa.; two brothers, Austin of Mill Valley, Calif., and H. Francis Jr. of Wayne, Pa.; a sister, Pamela Rosner, also of Paoli; and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 27, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about an education consultant who advocated school reforms to lift children out of poverty misidentified him and misstated the title of a book he wrote. He was Richard H. de Lone; the book was "Small Futures: Children, Inequality and the Limits of Liberal Reform" (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1979).
      