
        James Stirling, the maverick British architect whose work brought life to several major movements in postwar architecture, died yesterday in London. He was 66 years old and lived in London.
        His office declined to give the cause of death.
        Mr. Stirling, an unorthodox figure in contemporary architecture, was a leader in the movement away from the stylistic uniformity of modern architecture. His buildings were defined by color, playfulness, historical reference and a quirkiness often bordering on eccentricity. They ranged from the crystalline glass and brick History Faculty Building in Cambridge, England, in 1967, to the brashly colored Neue Staatsgalerie in Stuttgart, Germany, a museum completed in 1985.
        Mr. Stirling's first buildings reflected a purist modernism. In the late 1960's, he broke away from his stylistic beginnings and began to evolve the more personal style for which he and his partner, Michael Wilford, became celebrated. He rejected the term post-modern, preferring to call himself post-International. His stylistically diverse buildings reflected the variety of their contexts.
        His stature was recognized in 1981, when he was awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize, the first member of his generation to receive that honor. Yet for much of his career Mr. Stirling was more honored around the world than at home in England. In the 1970's and 80's he designed buildings for Rome, Berlin, Stuttgart, Tokyo and Teheran, as well as for Harvard, Rice and Cornell Universities and the University of California at Irvine, and he was venerated by students and younger architects around the world. Yet for years he was passed over for most major commissions in his home country, and it was not until the Clore Gallery, his addition to the Tate Gallery in London, which was finished in 1986, that he built an important museum in England. Born in Glasgow
        A large, rotund man, Mr. Stirling looked less like a famous architect than a befuddled professor. He maintained an office at Fitzroy Square in London, where he appeared daily dressed in the same uniform of deep blue shirts, purple socks and Hush Puppies.
        James Frazer Stirling was born on April 22, 1926 in Glasgow. The next year his family moved to Liverpool, where he attended the Liverpool School of Art and the School of Architecture at Liverpool University. Mr. Stirling received his Diploma of Architecture in 1950. He started with the architectural firm Lyons, Israel & Ellis and opened his private practice in 1956, first in partnership with James Gowan, then with Mr. Wilford.
        Although Mr. Stirling began his career as faith in the social programs of modern architecture was waning, his early buildings were assertively modern. His Engineering Building at Leicester University (1959-1963) and his Cambridge University History Faculty Building (1964-67) both reflected the influence of Team X, the British group of socially committed architects, and the Brutalist style they favored. With their crisp surfaces of glass and red brick, these buildings upheld the modern ideal of working-class architecture, but Mr. Stirling's talent for dramatic forms raised that ideal to more expressive heights. In the mid- to late 1960's, these two buildings drew hosts of architecture students eager to see how modernism could evolve beyond the functionalist esthetic of the International style.  A Split Develops
        Some people, however, thought these buildings were less an evolution of modernism than a departure from it. Nikolaus Pevsner, the historian who promoted orthodox modernism, called Mr. Stirling's buildings personal expressionism at odds with modernist ideals. Mr. Stirling declared his independence from orthodox modernism in a speech in 1966 in which he rejected the modern idea that a building's methods of construction should determine its form. "I have a rather ad hoc and expedient attitude to structure, particularly as a design element, and I usually manage to prevent it from intruding in the architectural solution," Mr. Stirling announced. "I'm more concerned with sociological, environmental and organizational problems, which I regard as being more important in the evolution of a design."
        In the late 60's, Mr. Stirling's work changed again, toward the style that would come to be called high tech. His Olivetti Training School in Haslemere, England, (1969) was made of prefabricated polyester components and looked more like a product of industrial design than a work of architecture. His Southgate Housing Project (1972-77) for low-income residents resembled a street of toys: homes had plastic walls of bright pink, blue, yellow and green, as if the Bauhaus had merged with Mattel. A Synthesis
        Mr. Stirling's subsequent architecture displayed his desire to reconcile the contradictions between renewed appreciation for the architectural past and the imperative to create things anew. This direction culminated 15 years later in the building often regarded as Mr. Stirling's most important: the Neue Staatsgalerie in Stuttgart.
        This museum synthesized classical formality and modern architecture's geometric abstraction. It combined walls of warm marble and floors tiled with acid green rubber. Reviewing the building in 1985, Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic of The New York Times, wrote that "post-modernism has finally produced its first complete, whole and mature monument."
        Mr. Stirling's use of classical forms was not, however, sufficiently reverent to please the Prince of Wales. The Prince attacked Mr. Stirling's 1985 design for a complex of offices and shops in London's financial district, ridiculing it as "an old 1930's wireless set."
        "I rather take that as a compliment," Mr. Stirling replied, "because 1930's wireless sets are really rather beautiful objects. I have the privilege of owning two of them myself."
        Mr. Stirling was knighted in the Queen's Birthday honors list on June 13.
        Mr. Stirling was married in 1966 to the designer Mary Shand. She and their son and two daughters survive.
      