
        Dewey Balfa, a fiddler and singer who helped create the Cajun music revival and became one of America's leading traditional musicians, died on Wednesday at Moosa Memorial Hospital in Eunice, La. He was 65 years old and lived in Basile, La.
        He died of liver cancer, said a longtime associate, Marc Savoy.
        During the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Balfa and his brothers Will and Rodney performed Cajun music at folk festivals across North America. The Balfa Brothers Band introduced the music to a wider audience and rekindled interest in it at home in Louisiana. Dewey Balfa told audiences: "Don't be ashamed of your daddy and granddad. Don't be ashamed to eat your crawfish or gumbo. It's your way of life, your identity."
        Dewey Balfa was born in Bayou Grand Louis, La., near Mamou. He chopped cotton by day and played music by night with his family, carrying on a tradition; his father, grandfather and great-grandfather were all fiddlers. With his brothers, he formed a group that played local dances in the 1940's. But music remained a sideline until 1964, when he was a last-minute replacement, on guitar, with a group of Cajun musicians at the Newport Folk Festival. The music received a huge ovation from 17,000 people. "That's enough to change a man's mind," he said afterward.  Gained National Attention
        The Balfa Brothers Band carried traditional Cajun music far beyond its local audience, bringing national attention to traditional two-steps and waltzes. They performed at inaugural events for Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Jimmy Carter. After his brothers died in an automobile accident in 1978, Dewey Balfa continued to perform and to teach, leading his own bands and teaching workshops and classes. He was also the director of the Acadiana Music and History Series in the Louisiana schools.
        In 1982, Mr. Balfa was given the National Heritage Fellowship by the National Endowment for the Arts, its highest award for traditional arts. With his brothers and with his own groups, he recorded for Folkways, Arhoolie, Rounder, Sonet and Swallow Records.
        On May 17, hundreds of Mr. Balfa's students and fans gathered for a tribute to him in Eunice, La. "He had a natural, humble attitude toward the culture, and would get up and play music for the sake of playing music, because he loved it," said Mr. Savoy, an accordionist who had performed with Mr. Balfa since the early 1970's. "It wasn't slick. It wasn't polished. He wasn't trying to sell himself. He was trying to present his culture."
        He is survived by four daughters, Christine, Norma, Nelda and Roberta, all of the Basile area.
      