
        Colin Campbell Cameron, a descendant of missionaries to Hawaii who became a major resort developer and pineapple industry executive, died on Friday while swimming near his home in Spreckelsville on Maui. He was 65 years old.
        He was found unconscious in the ocean, and rescue workers said the apparent cause of death was a heart attack.
        Mr. Cameron was chairman and president of the Maui Land and Pineapple Company, the largest company on Maui, and president of the Maui Publishing Company, which publishes The Maui News.
        His pineapple operations were the third-largest in Hawaii, and he was an early developer of resorts in Kapalua, in the 1960's.
        He was also involved in a controversy in the late 1980's over his plans to build a 450-room beachfront hotel at an ancient burial site at Honokahua. After several years of excavating and protests, he agreed to restore the graves and find a new site for the hotel.
        Mr. Cameron, a native of Maui, was a descendant of the Baldwins, a family that arrived from New England as Congregational missionaries in 1836 and became one of the Big Five families that dominated Hawaii before World War II.
        He graduated from Harvard in 1950 and earned a master's degree in business administration there in 1953. He started work in a family pineapple company and became its executive vice president and general manager, then quit after a dispute with management. He later returned to buy a controlling share.
        He was chairman of the Maui Economic Development Board and served on the boards of the Haleakala Ranch Company, the Bank of Hawaii, the Hawaii Electric Company, the High Technology Development Corporation, Bancorp Hawaii, the Hawaii Trust Company, the Lahaina Restoration Foundation and the Hawaii Resort Developers Conference.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Pamela Andelin; two sons, Richard and Douglas; two daughters, Frances Ort and Margaret Alvidrez, and several grandchildren.
      