
        Meyer H. Robinson, a philanthropist and co-founder of the company that made Manischewitz wines, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
        He was 86 years old and lived in Lawrence, L.I. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Robinson's career began with the end of Prohibition in December 1933. He started as the lawyer for the Monarch Wine Company, which was being formed by his brother, George, and Leo Star. When his brother died in 1935, Mr. Robinson took over as a partner and as the company's secretary-treasurer and chairman. Eventually he became president of the industry's National Wine Association.
        Monarch made its wines in the Bush Terminal in Brooklyn, using grape juice from upstate vineyards and loganberries from Oregon, elderberries from Ireland and cherries from Yugoslavia. Excitement on the Moon
        The sweet kosher wines gained a worldwide following beyond their religious use. The astronaut Buzz Aldrin was so excited on a lunar landing that he blurted out the wines' advertising slogan, "Man-o-Manischewitz."
        The company also made, imported and marketed other wines, beers and spirits. When China opened up trade with the United States, Monarch in 1978 began distributing imported Tsingtao beer.
        Mr. Robinson retired in 1986, when Monarch sold its wine division to the Canandaigua Wine Company and its beer division to Barton Brands.
        Active in Jewish and Israeli causes, he was a past president of Temple Beth El and the Brandeis School of Lawrence. He also served on the boards of the Jewish Theological Seminary, the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York and the United Synagogues of America.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Robinson grew up there and in Brooklyn. He attended Brooklyn College and earned a bachelor of law degree from St. John's Law School in 1927 and a master's there in 1928.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, the former Roslyn Gross; a sister, Lillian Perskey of Laguna Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Gale of Manhattan; a son, Samuel, of Ashland, Ore., and three grandchildren.
      