
        Dr. David D. Denker, a historian and past president of New York Medical College, died on June 7 at the Princeton Medical Center, in Princeton, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Jamesburg, N.J.
        Dr. Denker died of cancer, said his wife, Jane Gurley Denker.
        In 1966, when Dr. Denker, who had a doctorate in history from Yale, was named to head the century-old medical college, he was a rarity: a nonphysician heading a medical school. But he said then that he did not feel that his lack of a medical degree would hinder him.
        In fact Dr. Denker did possess significant experience with a medical school. As assistant provost of Rutgers University, from which he was recruited to head the medical college, he had helped establish that university's medical school, now the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, in the late 1950's.
        "My main job," he remarked at the time of his appointment, "is not to organize research, but rather to create the optimum conditions for the faculty's creativity and productivity."
        During Dr. Denker's tenure, the medical college did undergo great change and growth: It moved from its site in upper Manhattan to a new teaching hospital and medical college complex in Westchester County, faculty tenure was established and students were given a vote on the institution's curriculum committee and involved in other aspects of the college's management.  G.I. Bill and Yale
        Born in Denver but raised in Brooklyn, Dr. Denker graduated as valedictorian from Boys High School in 1933. He could not afford to attend college, however, and went to work as a reporter for the Brooklyn Citizen newspaper and then the College and School Department of The New York Times.
        During the war, Dr. Denker enlisted in the Army and was the editor of a service newspaper. He was honorably discharged with the rank of sergeant.
        Using his G.I. Bill benefits, Dr. Denker gained admission to Yale after the war and, having been named to Phi Bata Kappa, graduated with a bachelor's degree in history with honors and exceptional distinction. He earned a doctorate in history in 1951.
        Dr. Denker stayed on at Yale during the following academic year as a Sterling Fellow and an instructor in the history department and Yale's program of American studies for foreign scholars.
        In 1952 Dr. Denker joined the Rutgers faculty as an assistant history professor and acting director of the American civilization program. He was also appointed director of the university's Bureau of Information on Fellowships, Scholarships and Special Grants.
        Dr. Denker is survived by his wife, Jane Gurley Denker; two sons, Joel S., of Washington and Michael P., of Potomac, Md.; two daughters, Dana D. Semmes of Potomac., Md., and Cornelia C., of Calais, Vt., and one brother, Harry Goldstein, of Plantation, Fla.
      