
        Nicholas Guy Anton, a physicist, engineer and inventor of monitoring devices that detect radiation and cancer, died on Wednesday at his daughter's home in St. Louis, while on a visit. A former resident of Brooklyn, he was 85 years old and lived in Coconut Creek, Fla.
        He died after a brief illness, said the daughter, Dr. Nanci Bobrow.
        Mr. Anton held more than 20 patents for his instruments as well as for the processes with which he manufactured them in plants he managed in Brooklyn for several decades. He also was a member of a number of government advisory boards and contributed many articles and papers to professional journals.
        Mr. Anton was born in Trieste on the Adriatic, then Austria's only seaport and now part of Italy. He graduated there from the Technical Institute Leonardo da Vinci and continued his studies at Columbia University when he came to this country in 1926. He became a citizen of the United States in 1943.
        He set out to work as an engineer in 1928 at the Duovac Radio Tube Corporation in Brooklyn. In the following 20 years, he was an officer and engineer at Electronic Laboratories and, subsequently, Amperex Electronic Laboratories, a subsidiary of the North American Philips Corporation, where he was the general partner in charge of manufacturing and factory engineering.
        He was the president and director of research, development and engineering of Anton Electronic Laboratories in Brooklyn from 1948 to 1961, when he founded the E.O.N. Corporation. There he was president and director of research and development until his retirement in 1978.
        Mr. Anton also lectured at Long Island University for a number of years. He served as an industrial consultant to the old Atomic Energy Commission at the United Nations 1955 International Conference on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva. He also was a member of the President's Conference on Industrial Safety.
        Among his patents were those for a radiation indicator, electron emitters, an air-particle meter and a radiation dosimeter.
        Mr. Anton is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Bernice Skripsky; two other daughters, Joan Pearlman and Linda Kincaid, both of Frederick, Md., and seven grandchildren.
      