
        Dr. Harry Eagle, a medical scientist whose many discoveries included a method for growing cells in test tubes that was a breakthrough for biological research, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y., where he was admitted three weeks ago. He was 86 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        He died of cancer, said Arthur Oshins, a spokesman for the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, from which Dr. Eagle was retired.
        Dr. Eagle's career included executive posts at several major academic, research and government institutions. In 1987, President Ronald Reagan awarded him the National Medal of Science, the country's highest scientific honor.
        His best-known achievement was his formulation in 1959 of the essential compounds needed to sustain the reproduction of human and other mammalian cells in the laboratory, a mixture that became known as Eagle's growth medium. Its development was vital in opening the way to new research on viruses, genetic defects and cancer.
        Other major contributions included his discovering that blood clotting is an enzyme process; developing a treatment for arsenic poisoning; analyzing the best conditions for penicillin treatment, and describing the metabolic differences between normal and malignant cells. He advanced cancer chemotherapy and helped find a cure for African sleeping sickness. Developed Syphilis Test
        He was also on a four-member team that developed long-term storage for life-saving serums, which previously were perishable. The new process employed freeze-drying.
        In the 1940's he devised a diagnostic test for syphilis and worked on new arsine oxide medications for the disease. Then he helped discover the efficacy of penicillin for syphilis in experiments on rabbits and also found that penicillin prevents gonorrhea when taken soon after exposure to infection.
        Dr. Eagle published widely in scientific journals. Among his many honors, he won the Waterford International Biomedical Award and Eli Lilly Award in Bacteriology and citations from the American Association of Medical Colleges and the American Society of Cell Biology.
        He was a past president of the Society of American Microbiologists, the American Association of Immunology and the Society of Experimental Biology and Medicine. He was also a former chairman of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
        Dr. Eagle was born in New York City and grew up in Baltimore. He graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1923 and its medical school in 1927. A Career in Teaching
        For most of the next 20 years he did teaching and research at Johns Hopkins. He was the director of its Venereal Disease Research Laboratory and Laboratory of Experimental Therapeutics. He was also a commanding officer in the United States Public Health Service program at Johns Hopkins.
        From 1947 until 1961 Dr. Eagle worked at the National Institutes of Health. He served as the scientific director of the National Cancer Institute from 1947-49, then chief of the Experimental Therapeutics Section of the National Microbiological Institute from 1949-59 and chief of the Cell Biology Laboratory of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases from 1959-61.
        He joined the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx in 1961 and became a professor and chairman of its cell biology department, founding chairman of its Biological Sciences Division, associate dean for Scientific Affairs and founding director of its Cancer Research Center.
        He retired as the center's director in 1988 but remained active until his illness last year.
        Surviving are his wife of 64 years, the former Hope Whaley; a daughter, Kay Eagle Kyle of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a sister, Goldie Bardack of Baltimore; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      