
        Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz, a psychologist and an art entrepreneur who was also active in Reform Judaism, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 75 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said his cousin, Albert Vorspan.
        At his death, Dr. Leibovitz, who had a Ph.D. in clinical psychology, was vice chairman and president of Knoedler-Modarco, which operates three divisions: M. Knoedler & Company, one of New York City's oldest art galleries; Knoedler Publishing, and the Hammer Galleries. A former accountant for the Occidental Petroleum Corporation, Dr. Leibovitz was a close associate of Dr. Armand Hammer, the corporation's late chairman, and was his partner in the purchase of Knoedler's in 1971. At Knoedler Publishing, Dr. Leibovitz was instrumental in signing the prolific print maker LeRoy Neiman and in the lucrative marketing of his art.
        Dr. Leibovitz also owned the estate of the sculptor Jo Davidson, and recently donated a Davidson sculpture of Gertrude Stein to the newly rehabilitated Bryant Park in Manhattan, adjoining the New York Public Library. The full-length statue is to be dedicated this year.
        In addition to his interest in psychology and the art business, Dr. Leibovitz was involved in Jewish causes. He was the chairman of the Committee on Drug and Alcohol Abuse of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the central body of Reform Judaism in North America. He was also the national chairman of the organization's Polish Judaica Project, and president of the board of directors of the Myerhoff Center, which is concerned with furthering Jewish culture.
        He was born in 1917 in St. Paul, and majored in business and accounting at the University of Minnesota. In 1946, after serving in the Army, he began practicing as a certified public accountant in Beverly Hills, Calif. He joined Occidental in 1960.
        While at Occidental, he enrolled at the University of Southern California to study psychology. He went on to study Jungian psychology in Zurich, receiving a doctorate from the University of Southern California in 1968. He was appointed to the post of assistant professor at the university, and left in 1971, moving to New York to join Knoedler.
        Dr. Leibovitz's companion was Carole Anne McLeod of Greenwich.
        He is survived by three sons, Bryan, of Davis, Calif., Joshua, of San Diego, and Shaun, of New York City.
      