
        Norman W. Schur, a New York lawyer who parlayed a lifelong love of words into a second career as a lexicographer, died on Friday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 84 years old and divided his time between homes in Weston, Conn., and Hawkhurst, Kent, England.
        Mr. Schur, a graduate of Columbia Law School, spent more than 50 years in private practice in Manhattan, specializing in estates and trusts. In 1960 he began to practice in England as well.
        There he first tasted the writer's profession with a book comparing the Queen's English with its American offspring. Titled "British Self-Taught: With Comments in American," his book was published by Macmillan 1973. Last year, HarperCollins issued its third rendition, now called "British English: A to Zed."
        About 10 years ago Mr. Schur began to phase out the lawyer side of his life to devote his time to the pursuit of words, words and more words. He distilled his labor in a series of four lexicons published between 1982 and two years ago.
        First came "One Thousand Most Important Words," a Ballantine Books paperback. He called it a "purely subjective" compilation culled from his decades' worth of notebooks. It preceded "Practical English: One Thousand Most Effective Words" (Ballantine, 1983), and "One Thousand Most Challenging Words" (Facts on File, 1984; Ballantine, 1988).
        Mr. Schur intended each of them to be a "vocabulary expander," a tool for people to enhance their language as a "noble sociological contribution." The books offered brief essays on the origin and meaning of the words, often in a literary and poetic context. Humorous examples of usage leavened the whole.
        "One Thousand Most Obscure Words" (Facts on File, 1990) finally indulged Mr. Schur's delight at words that "we are not likely to run into, and less likely to use," as he put it in an interview, "but words that are good fun at a party" -- like sesquipedalophobia, the fear of big words.
        Norman Warren Schur was born in Boston and graduated from Boston Latin School at the age of 15, having also learned Greek, French and German. He majored in Latin and Italian at Harvard and graduated summa cum laude a spring ahead of his class of '27. After a year's study on a fellowship in Italy and France, he attended Harvard Law School but transferred to Columbia when his family moved to New York.
        He had begun to collect words at age 12, writing them down in the notebooks that he mined much later for his books. His father, Mr. Schur reported, was a "gifted linguist" who "grilled" him every Sunday on the words he had discovered over the week. His father, he said, also inspired him with the reflection that "words are like jewels, a gift to be treasured and used."
        Mr. Schur is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Marjorie Tas; three daughters, Alexandra Karam of San Francisco, Joanna Weber of Chicago and Moira S. Craw of Wilton, Conn.; two sons, Warren M., of Weston, and Geoffrey E., of Redding, Conn.; 17 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      