
        Ricardo A. Caminos, a longtime Brown University professor who was a leading scholar of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics and writings, died on May 28 at his home in London. He was 76 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Caminos, who was on the Brown faculty for 28 years and was chairman of the university's department of Egyptology from 1972 to 1980, spent much of his career on research expeditions to Egypt and the Sudan.
        Working at shrines, temples and excavation sites, he copied ancient inscriptions carved into stone and writings inscribed on papyrus, and then translated and interpreted them.
        Dr. Caminos specialized in both epigraphy, the study of carved works, and paleography, the study of the hieratic, or written cursive, scripts. His work incorporated skill in archeology, grammar, philology and lexicography.
        "He was among the leaders in his field," said Dr. Henry G. Fischer, the curator emeritus of the Egyptian department at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        The main sites where Dr. Caminos worked were Karnak, Thebes (Luxor), Gebel es-Silsilah, Qasr Ibrim, Buhen, Wadi el-Shatt el-Rigal, Semna and Kumma. He was among the scholars who redoubled their efforts in the late 1960's to record as much as possible at sites before they were to be submerged by flooding from the Aswan Dam.
        Born in Buenos Aires, Dr. Caminos developed an interest in ancient history as a youth. He graduated from the University of Buenos Aires and earned a master's degree there in 1938. He went on to study at Oxford University and the Oriental Institute at Chicago University, earning doctorates from both institutions.
        He wrote books and articles on his work. He held Rockefeller and Guggenheim fellowships and was a visiting professor and lecturer in Paris, Leningrad and Buenos Aires.
        After his formal retirement from Brown in 1980, he built a home in London next-door to the offices and library of the Egypt Exploration Society, with which he was associated for many years, and continued his research.
        Surviving are a brother, Hugo Caminos of Washington, and a sister, Helena Caminos Kidd of Buenos Aires.
      