
        Robert Sanford Boas, head of an international securities concern, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. Mr. Boas was 69 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I., and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Boas died of multiple myeloma, or cancer of the bone marrow and blood, said his son Dr. Richard S. Boas of Westport, Conn.
        Beginning in 1946, Mr. Boas worked his entire career for Carl Marks & Company, a broker and dealer that makes markets in thousands of securities around the world. Mr. Boas was named chairman in 1953.
        He was appointed president of the CMNY Capital Company and a director of the Carl Marks Foundation in 1962. In 1988, CMNY Capital merged its trading department with Smith New Court of London.
        Mr. Boas took a special interest in North Shore Hospital, helping it grow from a community hospital with 169 beds to a regional center with 1,235 beds. He became an associate trustee in 1964 and a trustee in 1967. He became vice president in 1972 and was president from 1973 to 1977. Later he was chairman.
        In 1986, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo dedicated the 129,000-square-foot Boas-Marks Biomedical Science Research Center, a unit of North Shore in Glen Cove, L.I. The center specializes in molecular genetics and immunology, cell biology and clinical investigations.
        Mr. Boas was born on May, 21, 1923, in Brooklyn. He graduated from Cornell University with a B.A. He served in the Army from 1943 to 1944.
        Mr. Boas's activities included being chairman of the UJA/Federation Exodus Campaign of Long Island and executive vice president of Temple Beth-El of Great Neck. He was on the board of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and was a founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx and Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He was an advisory director of the Metropolitan Opera.
        Mr. Boas also established the Carl Marks Professorship in International Studies at Cornell. In 1981, Mr. Boas and his wife, the former Marjorie Marks, were designated Cornell's foremost benefactors.
        Also surviving are another son, Andrew, also of Westport; a daughter, Susan Claster of Roslyn, L.I.; his mother, Ruth Hirshman of Manhattan; a sister, Muriel Seligman Cantor of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      