
        Lewis Freedman, a television producer and program executive for CBS and PBS, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 66 years old.
        He died of complications of a stroke, according to an announcement by the University of Chicago, where he was the founding director of the William Benton Broadcast Project.
        In a 45-year career that started in television's infancy, Mr. Freedman won many Emmy and Peabody Awards. His four-part CBS mini-series, "Benjamin Franklin," won 12 Emmy Awards.
        Joan Ganz Cooney, co-founder of the Children's Television Workshop, which developed "Sesame Street," said Mr. Lewis was the "grandfather" of "Sesame Street." The concept, she said, originated in a conversation at his home.
        He also created the "Bicentennial Minutes" for CBS, which won an Emmy and a Peabody award. His most recent productions were "The Rage for Democracy" and "The Glory and the Power: Fundamentalism Observed," both on PBS this year. 'Powerful and Absorbing'
        In his earlier years, Mr. Freedman produced the often-honored "Camera Three" for CBS on Sunday mornings and "The Play of the Week" for Channel 13 in New York.
        "The Play of the Week" productions included "The Iceman Cometh" with Jason Robards Jr. and Robert Redford in 1960. That same year, he produced a program of two Strindberg plays that the Times critic Jack Gould described as "one of the most powerful and absorbing in the history of television drama." Another review said that "Play of the Week" had built "an extraordinary record of fashioning superlative television."
        As vice president for programming at PBS, Mr. Freedman was the executive producer of "The Andersonville Trial" in 1970, winner of an Emmy for the best program of 1970 and a Peabody for the best entertainment show.
        Mr. Freedman produced shows for NBC as well and was a founder and cultural affairs director of the Public Broadcast Laboratory. Helped Found Many Shows
        As the program fund director for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, Mr. Freedman helped to establish "American Playhouse," "Frontline," "Wonderworks," "Matters of Life and Death" and "Crisis to Crisis."
        His career was not always smooth. He was dismissed in 1966 as vice president of programming at Channel 13, then WNDT, after it canceled a show on race relations and a folk-rock musical, which he had supported. He accused the station of avoiding "bold and experimental" works.
        Mr. Freedman grew up in Manhattan. He served in the United States Army in World War II and graduated from Harvard in 1946. After teaching a year, he went into the fledgling television industry as a stage manager for CBS.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      