
        Dr. Alvin B. C. Knudson, who created and ran the Veterans Administration programs that restored hundreds of thousands of American soldiers injured in World War II, Korea and Vietnam to useful lives, died on Thursday at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 81 years old and lived in Fairfax Station.
        He died of cardiopulmonary failure, his family said.
        Dr. Knudson revolutionized rehabilitation treatment, said Thomas J. Fleming, a longtime colleague.
        For 23 years Dr. Knudson was the national director of the Veterans Administration's Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service. Appointed in 1948, he overhauled the agency's 165 hospitals around the nation with the advice of two experts, Dr. Howard Rusk and Dr. Karl Menninger, the psychiatrist. Philosophy of Independence
        Dr. Knudson's philosophy was that the right medical care and other support would restore most disabled people to functional, independent living. He insisted on patients' being involved in planning their recoveries.
        The medical treatment featured operations, drugs, artificial limbs and physical therapy. But he emphasized a team approach that also included psychological, social, educational and vocational specialists helping a patient's transition to a home life after leaving the hospital. For example, employers were recruited to find jobs for those able to work so that they could be financially independent and gain self-esteem.
        Before Dr. Knudson's changes, the Veterans Administration provided largely custodial care, still housing World War I veterans. Many of them benefited from the new treatment and returned to their communities. Some learned to walk again after being in wheelchairs for decades. Among First Certified
        When rehabilitation evolved as a new medical specialty, Dr. Knudson was among the first certified in it and then served on the examining board. He was president of the American Congress of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.
        His honors included awards from the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States and the President's Committee on Employment of the Physically Handicapped.
        Dr. Knudson was born in Waubay, S.D., and worked his way through college and medical school at the University of Minnesota.
        He joined the Veterans Administration in 1939, working at hospitals in St. Cloud, Minn.; Battle Creek, Mich., and Dwight, Ill. He transferred to the Army Medical Corps in World War II. In 1945 he won a fellowship to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and was later appointed to the V.A. headquarters in Washington.
        His wife of 58 years, the former Florence Rusche, died last year. Dr. Knudson is survived by two sons, Dr. Alvin R. Knudson of Alexandria, Va., and Arthur B. C. Knudson of Goldvein, Va.; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      