
        Sir Charles Groves, an English conductor who in a career that spanned more than 50 years, directed orchestras in Liverpool, Manchester and Bournemouth, died on Saturday at St. Pancras Hospital in London. He was 77 years old and lived in London.
        He had been hospitalized since February, when he had a stroke from which he never fully recovered, said his son, Jonathan Groves.
        Sir Charles was best known to American audiences through his many recordings, particularly those devoted to the music of Delius, Elgar and other British composers. Most of his work was centered in Britain, where he held an important place in his country's musical life.
        He was known not only for the fluidity of his performances and his championship of new music, but also for the energy he devoted to furthering the cause of music in Britain. In 1954, when the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestra was in peril of extinction, he took to the streets and sold raffle tickets.
        Charles Barnard Groves was born in London on March 10, 1915, and began his musical education as a boy chorister at St. Paul's Cathedral when he was 8 years old.
        His first post was as a chorus master for the BBC Opera Unit. He took over the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestra in 1951, and after helping rescue the ensemble during its financial crisis in 1954, he reconstituted it as the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra.
        In 1961, he was appointed music director of the Welsh National Opera, in Cardiff, a post he held for two years. His other opera directorship, that of the English National Opera, in London, was also short-lived. He took the post in 1978, and resigned the next year.
        The most fruitful period in Sir Charles's career was his directorship of the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, from 1963 to 1978. He also conducted contemporary works by composers of other nationalities, and was the first English conductor to perform the full cycle of Mahler symphonies. Ties With Many Orchestras
        After 1978, he performed as a freelance conductor, maintaining associations with several orchestras. He became an associate conductor of the Royal Philharmonic in 1967, the president of the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain in 1977, the artistic adviser of the English Sinfonia in 1982, and the director of the Leeds Philharmonic Society in 1988.
        Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Hilary, and two daughters, Sally Groves of London and Mary Lodge of Sussex.
      