
        John Charles Doerfer, who headed the Federal Communications Commission during controversies over payments to disk jockeys and quiz shows scandals and who was forced out of office for vacationing on a broadcaster's yacht, died on Friday at his home in Boston.
        He was 87 years old and died of cardiac arrest, his family said.
        President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed the outspoken Mr. Doerfer to the commission in 1953, promoted him to chairman in 1957 and pressured him to quit in 1960. Turbulent Period
        Mr. Doerfer's tenure covered a turbulent period in radio and television, and he often clashed over policy with Congress and industry critics.
        Broadcasters were scandalized by the bribes to disk jockeys for playing certain songs and by rigged contest shows. The F.C.C. was also debating pay television, the role of ultrahigh frequency channels and accusations that licenses were renewed regardless of a station's performance.
        Mr. Doerfer acknowledged that the industry had faults but argued that critics exaggerated them and advocated excessive remedies.
        He resisted demands that the commission monitor programs and prod broadcasters to enhance the quality. To do so would invite Government control and censorship, he said. Eventually he got the networks to reserve an hour of prime time weekly for educational and cultural programs. Critics scoffed that it was too little.
        Amid charges that the F.C.C. was too cozy with industry, Mr. Doerfer was accused of accepting favors.
        Congressional investigators scrutinized him in 1958 for accepting an airplane trip to Florida and Bimini with George B. Storer, the president of Storer Broadcasting, operator of five television stations and seven radio stations. When reports arose of another trip in 1960, Mr. Doerfer dismissed it as a two-hour boat ride.
        But he admitted to the House Subcommittee for Legislative Oversight that he and his wife were flown to and from Miami on a Storer plane. While there, he stayed six days and nights on a Storer yacht, Lazy Girl, cruised on it to the Florida Keys for golf and was flown back to Miami. Defense of Actions
        "My conscience is absolutely clean," Mr. Doerfer said. "This was no gratuity. This was a social occasion." No business was discussed, he said, and he was paying the cost of flight tickets. He was never prosecuted, but critics deplored his judgment.
        The President summoned Mr. Doerfer to the White House. His resulting resignation letter said that work relationships often "ripen into special acquaintances and sometimes friendships," but that he had never compromised his integrity. He said he quit "to avoid any possible embarrassment to you."
        Mr. Doerfer took up law practice in Washington. In 1963 he moved to Florida and did legal work for Storer Broadcasting until 1974, when he turned to part-time practice. He retired about 1980.
        He was born in Milwaukee and grew up in nearby West Allis. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1928 and Marquette Law School in 1934.
        In 1940 he was elected the city attorney of West Allis and ran the local Republican Presidential campaign for Wendell L. Willkie. In 1949 he was appointed to the Wisconsin Public Service Commission and became its chairman.
        His wife of 53 years, the former Ida Page, died in 1982. He is survived by two sons, Gordon L. Doerfer of Boston and John P. Doerfer of Onamia, Minn.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      