
        William G. McGowan, a maverick entrepreneur who changed the shape of the nation's telephone industry, bringing lower cost long-distance service to millions of American households and businesses, died yesterday in Washington. He was 64 years old.
        Mr. McGowan, the longtime chairman of the MCI Communications Corporation, died of a heart attack, said Bert C. Roberts Jr., the company's president and chief executive officer. Mr. McGowan had a heart transplant operation in 1987 but continued as chief executive until six months ago.
        Mr. McGowan successfully challenged the monopoly of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in Federal court and in the marketplace. MCI's antitrust suit against A.T.& T. in 1974, joined by the Justice Department, led to the breakup of Ma Bell a decade later, with A.T.& T. supplying long-distance service and seven regional companies, known as the Baby Bells, providing local phone service. 'To Everyone's Benefit'
        "McGowan seized the opportunity and introduced competition into the telecommunications industry," said Robert LaBlanc, an industry consultant. "And it's been to everyone's benefit."
        In his fight against A.T.& T., Mr. McGowan focused mainly on opening up the lucrative long-distance service. But industry experts say his legacy extends well beyond creating competition in the long-distance market.
        The breakup of A.T.& T. also created unfettered competition in the multibillion-dollar markets for telephone equipment and sophisticated switching devices. Moreover, the lower prices and added service that competition has brought to the United States market have been behind the push in Western Europe and Asia to privatize state-owned telephone monopolies. Even A.T.& T. shareholders, some analysts say, have benefited from the breakup, since the resulting companies are leaner and more profitable businesses.
        "If it weren't for Bill McGowan's dogged determination none of that would have happened," said Berge Ayvazian of the Yankee Group, a consulting agency in Boston. A Long, Costly Fight
        At times, MCI's chances of success seemed slender and the odds formidable. Its legal fight with A.T.& T. was so long, costly and time-consuming that the MCI staff joked that the company amounted to "a law firm with an antenna on the roof."
        But Mr. McGowan, known for working 15 hours a day and seven days a week, lobbied tirelessly to convince Congress and Federal agencies that increased competition would enhance phone service. And MCI's headquarters were situated in Washington, largely to pursue that campaign of persuasion.
        "People said A.T.& T. is so smart and so loved and so big," he recalled in an interview with Fortune magazine. "Or they said that's just the way it is. But I knew better."
        Mr. McGowan was born on Dec. 10, 1927, in Ashley, Pa., the third of five children in a first-generation Irish-American family. His father, Andrew, was a railroad engineer on the Central Railroad of New Jersey and a union organizer. After graduating from high school, Mr. McGowan joined the Army and served as a medic for two and a half years, participating in the 1948-49 Berlin airlift.
        After his Army service Mr. McGowan received a degree in chemical engineering from Kings College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., paying his way by working nights as a freight dispatcher for the Central Railroad of New Jersey. He then went on to Harvard Business School, graduating in the class of 1954. Eventually, he set himself up in New York City as a consultant rescuing troubled companies, mainly in the garment district. Happenstance Involvement
        Mr. McGowan became involved in the long-distance telephone business by happenstance in 1968. Jack Goeken, an entrepreneur, had founded a company, Microwave Communications Inc., that offered radio-telephone service to trucks traveling between Chicago and St. Louis. But the company needed approval of the Federal Communications Commission to establish its microwave system; A.T.& T., with its virtual monopoly on long-distance service, opposed the plan.
        Mr. Goeken saw the potential for extending his service nationally, and he also recognized that Ma Bell would strenuously resist any rivals, regardless of how small they were. To oppose A.T.& T. and expand his service, he knew, would require more money. He was introduced to Mr. McGowan by a mutual acquaintance who said the young consultant could help raise additional funds.
        Mr. McGowan saw the potential in the fledgling company, so much so that he bought half of it for $50,000 in 1968, incorporated it as a new company, the MCI Communications Corporation, and became its chairman. And the fight with A.T.& T. began in earnest.
        In 1971 the F.C.C. granted MCI the right to compete with A.T.& T. for long-distance service throughout the United States. But Ma Bell's resistance was still considerable, with many of A.T.& T.'s 22 local phone companies refusing to give MCI access to businesses and households. And in 1974 MCI filed its antitrust suit against A.T.& T., accusing it of unfairly thwarting the growth of competition in the long-distance market. An Amicable Split
        In the same year Mr. McGowan and Mr. Goeken parted ways, with the latter resigning as president. Mr. Goeken said yesterday that the split-up centered on differences over how best to compete against A.T.& T. Mr. McGowan wanted to compete head on by offering cheaper long-distance service, while Mr. Goeken preferred to try to beat A.T.& T. with innovations.
        The two parted with no lasting bitterness, Mr. Goeken said, adding that he and his daughter, Sandra, visited Mr. McGowan after he had his first heart attack in 1986.
        "Everything Bill McGowan did, he did all out," said Mr. Goeken, who is now chairman of the In-Flight Phone Corporation, which supplies telecommunications services for airlines. "And while his methods were sometimes different than mine, you can't argue with the results."
        In 1980 a jury awarded MCI millions of dollarsin damages for its suit against A.T.& T., which was settled five years later for an undisclosed sum. The Justice Department case against A.T.& T. continued through an 11-month trial, with Mr. McGowan assisting the Government, and ended with a consent decree in 1982. Under its terms, A.T.& T. agreed to spin off its local phone companies in 1984, and the Government agreed to drop its suit.
        By then, a key effect of the Ma Bell breakup was that MCI's long-distance service would soon become as easy to use as A.T.& T.'s, with its customers no longer having to dial as many as 12 extra digits to make a call, a major barrier that A.T.& T. had maintained. 'A Level Playing Field'
        "What's significant is that we will finally have a level playing field with A.T.& T.," Mr. McGowan said in an interview with The New York Times in 1984. "And we'll be able to attract as much business as we can handle."
        From a struggling company with less than $100,000 in revenue in 1978, MCI grew to a multinational corporation with revenue of $9.5 billion by 1991, and held about 16 percent of the market for domestic and international long-distance service.
        MCI's growth was financed partly by the high-yield securities sold by Michael Milken's operation at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
        Mr. McGowan typically arrived at 7 A.M. and worked through the day. Often, he would walk through the halls of MCI's headquarters at 10 P.M., round up some of the young workers for a few quick drinks and then lead the delegation back to the office to work for a couple of hours more.
        Mr. McGowan was also known as a three-pack-a-day cigarette smoker who drank about two dozen cups of coffee a day, a regimen that stopped abruptly after he had a severe heart attack in 1986, followed by the heart transplant in 1987. He took a six-month leave but eventually returned to work.
        He died yesterday morning while attending a routine exercise program at Georgetown University Hospital.
        Mr. McGowan, who lived in Washington and in Virginia Beach, is survived by his wife, Sue Ling Gin, three brothers and a sister.
      