
        Georgia Brown, a gravelly voiced singer and an earthy actress who originated the role of Nancy in the musical "Oliver!," died yesterday in London. She was 57 years old and lived in Hollywood.
        She died at Charing Cross Hospital, The Associated Press reported, saying her death was after a brief illness. She was in London to appear in a tribute to Sammy Davis Jr. at the Drury Lane Theater.
        She was named Lillian Klot at her birth in the East End of London, and she took her professional name from "Sweet Georgia Brown" and "Georgia on My Mind," two of the standards she belted out night after night as she made the rounds of dance halls and cabarets in the 1950's. She was also known for performing bluesy ballads and dancing with a neighbor, Vidal Sassoon. (She was his first customer when he opened his first salon in 1954.)
        "The nightclub floor is such an incredible teacher," she said in 1963. "It gives you contact with an audience; the legitimate theater rarely talks back to you. Nightclubs teach you discipline, concentration, control." Even Lenya Was Pleased
        From jazz, she turned to acting, appearing on British television in "Mother Courage and Her Children" and, in 1955, in "The Threepenny Opera," by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht, in London. In New York, she succeeded Lotte Lenya at the Theatre de Lys in Greenwich Village. Referring to Weill's widow and a role in the Brecht-Weill classic, Miss Brown boasted that "even Lotte Lenya thinks I can do Jenny."
        But she was best known for a role that grew out of an unexpected moment at a 1960 audition. The producer of "Oliver!," Lionel Bart, had grown up in the same neighborhood and recognized her when she walked in, shouting the name he knew her by. Flustered, she took a moment to respond, since she was no longer Lily Klot. But after seeing her perform, he decided she was just what he needed and wrote "As Long As He Needs Me" and "It's a Fine Life" for her.
        "I don't know anything about acting yet, but I keep studying as much as I can," she said after performing the role both on Broadway and in London.
        She was nominated in 1963 for a Tony Award as best actress for her role in "Oliver!," but lost to Vivian Leigh for "Tovarich." Stint as BBC Producer
        In the 1970's Miss Brown was a producer for the BBC. She produced and appeared in "Shoulder to Shoulder," a history of the women's movement at the turn of the century that was shown in this country as a six-part "Masterpiece Theater" series on public television.
        In 1979, she starred as a volcanic Italian heroine opposite Cesare Siepi in the Alan Jay Lerner-Joseph Stein-Burton Lane musical "Carmelina." It closed after 17 performances. Steven Berkoff's "Greek," in which she also appeared, did not last much longer, though she received generally good reviews, as she did in "Roza" on Broadway in 1987. She also appeared in a solo show, "Georgia Brown and Friends."
        Miss Brown is survived by a son, Jonathan.
      