
        Qian Sanqiang, a French-educated scientist who oversaw the research to develop China's nuclear bomb, died on Sunday, the official New China News Agency said today. He was 79 years old.
        The agency did not give a cause of death. It is common for China to delay announcing the deaths of prominent people.
        Like many Chinese scholars who studied abroad, Qian Sanqiang (pronounced cheeyen sahn-cheeyahng) was sympathetic to the Communist revolution in 1949 and resolved to help the Communists "build the country." But while many scholars soon found themselves under suspicion because of their foreign contacts, Mr. Qian was propelled into the circles of power because of his knowledge of nuclear physics.
        Mao Zedong apparently decided by the end of 1954 that China should try to build a nuclear bomb. At the beginning of January 1955, Prime Minister Zhou Enlai invited Mr. Qian to a meeting in his office and inquired about the possibilities of building a nuclear device. Politburo With a Geiger Counter
        Some days later, on Jan. 15, 1955, Mr. Qian and other experts were invited to a conference room in Zhongnanhai, the central leadership compound in Beijing, to brief Mao and other Politburo members on the prospects for nuclear weapons. The scientists put some uranium on a table and let the Politburo members approach with a geiger counter and listen to it tick.
        After listening to the presentation, Mao raised a glass of mao-tai and toasted China's newborn nuclear weapons program. According to a recent history, "China Builds the Bomb," by John Wilson Lewis and Xue Litai, Mao invited the group to dinner and the Politburo decided to go ahead with the nuclear weapons program, codenamed "02."
        "He made important contributions to China's nuclear research, atomic energy and development of atomic and hydrogen bombs," the New China New Agency said in its obituary of Mr. Qian. "He helped educate the new generation of Chinese nuclear physicists."
        Mr. Qian was born on Oct. 16, 1913, to a famous scholar's family in coastal Zhejiang Province. After graduating in 1936 from Qinghua University, one of China's leading science institutions, he traveled to France to conduct research at the Curie Laboratory and elsewhere. Expert on Uranium Fission
        He became an expert on uranium fission and in the 1940's was credited with substantial discoveries, some made with his wife and colleague, He Zehui. In 1946, Mr. Qian won the Henry de Parville Award for Physics, offered by the French Academy.
        After returning to China in 1948, Mr. Qian and Ms. He decided to stay after the Communist revolution. The Communist leaders showed their trust in Mr. Qian by giving him scarce hard currency in 1949 to buy China's first nuclear instruments in Europe and bring them back.
        Mr. Qian worked in the Academy of Sciences, rising quickly to become director of the Institute of Physics and later the Institute of Atomic Energy. He joined the Communist Party in 1954.
        After the meeting with Mao, Mr. Qian spent the late 1950's overseeing a group of brilliant scientists who were collectively charged with building an atomic bomb. Mr. Qian's role apparently was largely administrative, guiding the scientists rather than directly conducting the research. Began Work on H-Bomb
        The result was China's announcement on Oct. 16, 1964, that it exploded an atomic bomb. But even before then, perhaps five years earlier, Mr. Qian and other scientists had been asked to try to develop a next-generation hydrogen bomb that would have far more explosive power than the simple atomic weapon that was being developed first. That hydrogen bomb was tested in 1966 and 1967 and gave China additional military and diplomatic weight in international affairs.
        Basking in the prestige that his efforts had won, Mr. Qian was appointed a special adviser to the Academy of Sciences and Honorary Chairman of the China Association for Science and Technology. He became vice president of the Academy of Sciences and in 1978 was named president of Zhejiang University.
        While his name was relatively well known in China, Mr. Qian never took on an important political position and he fundamentally remained a scholar all his life. In recent years, there was little news of his activities.
        The New China News Agency said that Mr. Qian would be cremated on Sunday. It did not list his survivors.
      