
        John Piper, omnipresent in British art for 60 years as a painter, a printmaker, a stage designer, an artist in stained glass, a photographer and a pioneer enthusiast for English vernacular architecture, died at his home near Henley-on-Thames, England, on Monday. He was 88 years old.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Piper first made his mark in England as an abstract painter -- above all in the "7 & 5" Society exhibition in London in 1935 -- but before long he became famous nationwide as a painter in watercolor of the English landscape in its more informal and less celebrated aspects. Provincial quaysides, the tumbledown terraces of Brighton, Welsh nonconformist chapels, the wetlands of the Romney marsh in Sussex -- all took his fancy. Concurrently he wrote with wit and cogency about the English visual scene.
        During World War II Mr. Piper was widely credited with keeping alive in his paintings the memory of an England that might be destroyed at any time. Among those thus convinced was Queen Elizabeth (now the Queen Mother) who commissioned from him 29 paintings of Windsor Castle.
        After the war Mr. Piper was in almost universal demand as a stage designer. Whether it was "Oedipus Rex," with Laurence Olivier, or Benjamin Britten's "Rape of Lucretia" for the reopening of the opera at Glyndebourne, or the decor for William Walton's "Facade" with Edith Sitwell as the reciter, he was the designer of first choice. A Master of Stained Glass
        In middle age Mr. Piper mastered the art of stained glass. In collaborations with Patrick Reyntiens, he designed windows for the Eton College chapel, the church of St. Margaret's, Westminster, and (in 1962) the new cathedral in Coventry. In 1979 he designed a memorial window for his friend Benjamin Britten in Britten's hometown of Aldeburgh.
        As early as 1936 he pioneered the idea of the "artist's print," which would bring his work to a large public at an affordable price. After the war, there arose on those lines in Britain and elsewhere a print industry that assumed enormous proportions.
        Mr. Piper was born on Dec. 13, 1903. Educated at Epsom College and the Royal College of Art, he was married in 1929 to Eileen Holding, a fellow student. The marriage ended in divorce and he was married in 1937 to Myfanwy Evans, a playwright, anthologist and librettist. Though his work was shown in New York by Curt Valentin in 1948 and 1950, and more recently by the Marlborough Gallery, Mr. Piper neither achieved nor sought a great name in the United States. There was, however, no mistaking the impact of his sets for Britten's opera "Death in Venice" when it was produced by the Metropolitan Opera in 1974. (The libretto of that opera, as of others by Britten, was by Myfanwy Piper.)
        He is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters.
      