
        Lawrence Shubert Lawrence Jr., who headed the Shubert Organization from 1962 to 1972, died on Saturday at the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 76 years old.
        He died of cancer after a long illness, said his daughter-in-law, Suzanne Lawrence.
        Mr. Lawrence was a great-nephew of the three Shubert brothers -- Sam S., Lee and Jacob J., known as J. J. -- who founded what is now, with 17 houses, the largest theater chain in New York City.
        Mr. Lawrence became president and chief executive officer of Shubert Theater Enterprises, as the organization was then known, soon after the death of his cousin John J. Shubert in November 1962. At that time Mr. Lawrence had been the house manager of the Majestic Theater and was working in the organization as an assistant to his cousin.
        After the death of J. J. Shubert in December 1963, Mr. Lawrence continued as head of the theater organization during years of litigation involving Mr. Shubert's estate.  Numerous Hit Shows
        Mr. Lawrence was born in Philadelphia, where his father, Lawrence Shubert Lawrence Sr., the son of a Shubert sister, was the general manager of the family's theaters. A graduate of the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey and the University of Pennsylvania, the younger Mr. Lawrence served in the Pacific as a lieutenant in the United States Navy during World War II.
        Under Mr. Lawrence's tenure, the Shubert Organization established postgraduate fellowships in playwriting at 49 colleges, and the organization began operating a theater in Los Angeles. During the years Mr. Lawrence headed the organization, hits at Shubert theaters included "Funny Girl," "Gypsy," "The Odd Couple," "Luv" and "Stop the World, I Want to Get Off."
        But during his tenure, the organization became less active in producing its own plays and musicals, and increasingly derived its profits from real-estate operations and the rental of theaters and other services.
        Mr. Lawrence, who was the fifth consecutive family member to head the theater organization, was deposed from his position in June 1972 by the triumvirate of Gerald Schoenfeld, Bernard B. Jacobs and Irving Goldman, who succeeded him in running the firm.
        Mr. Lawrence sued unsuccessfully to regain control and oust the three men with charges that led the New York State Attorney General, Louis J. Lefkowitz, to start investigating Shubert affairs. In 1974 Mr. Lefkowitz accused Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Jacobs of waste, mismanagement and improper payments related to the J. J. Shubert estate. The charges were withdrawn in 1977 with the settlement of the estate.
        Mr. Lawrence is survived by five children: Barbara J. Lawrence Stass of North Brunswick, N.J.; Linda L. Lawrence of New Brunswick, N.J.; Lawrence S. Lawrence 3d of Knoxville, Tenn.; Lee S. Lawrence of Boca Raton, and Lynne C. Underwood of Miami Lakes, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      