
        Hector I. Vazquez, who in 1968 became the first Puerto Rican member of the New York City Board of Education, died on Monday at his home in Briarwood, Queens. He was 63 years old.
        He died of prostate cancer, said a son, Jaime.
        Mr. Vazquez was named to the Board of Education by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1968 and served until late 1969. In 1968, Puerto Ricans made up 22.1 percent of the New York City school system's enrollment, and Puerto Rican groups had long protested that they lacked representation on the board.
        The problems of Puerto Rican students were of particular concern to Mr. Vazquez. "High unemployment among Puerto Ricans," he once said, "is a chronic situation" because of the large number of high school dropouts and "the language problem."
        From 1967 until 1974 he was executive director of the Puerto Rican Forum, a nonprofit organization promoting educational and job opportunities. It is now called the National Puerto Rican Forum and is an employment and training agency serving Puerto Ricans and other members of minority groups.
        Mr. Vazquez was born in Cayey, P.R., and lived there until he was a teen-ager, when he moved to New York, where his family lived in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. He earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from the University of Miami in Florida in 1952 and a master's degree in economics from American University in Washington in 1956. He did further graduate work at Pace University.
        From 1957 to 1966 he worked in the Puerto Rican Economic Development office in New York and as an executive of a manpower training program operated by the forum, the Urban League and Cornell University.
        After leaving the forum he held posts in the New York State Department of Commerce, in the New York City Office of Business Development and elsewhere. From 1987 until his death he was president of Hector Vazquez Associates, which does business-development consulting.
        Besides his son Jaime, of Queens, he is survived by his wife, the former Carmen Inoa; three sisters, Aurora Vazquez of Manhattan, Amelia Vazquez of San Juan, P.R., and Carmen Morgan of Vero Beach, Fla., and another son, Miguel, also of Queens.
      