
        Hyman Ruchlis, an educator who wrote about science and mathematics for young readers, died on Tuesday at Palm Beach Hospice in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79 years old and lived in Century Village, a retirement community in West Palm Beach.
        He died of kidney failure and a cardiac disorder, said Dr. Leo Gross, a close friend in New York.
        A native of Brooklyn and graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University, Mr. Ruchlis taught physics in New York City schools. He headed the science department at Bushwick High School for five years until he retired in 1955 because of heart trouble.
        Mr. Ruchlis first became known as an author of "Atomics for the Millions," which he wrote with Dr. Maxwell Leigh Eidinoff (McGraw-Hill, 1947). With a foreword by the Nobel prize winner Harold C. Urey, it was an early attempt to explain nuclear energy and its awesome forces to the lay reader. Graphics by Maurice Sendak -- then one of Mr. Ruchlis's promising high school students -- added a lighter touch. Books for Young Readers
        Many books aimed at young people followed, such as "Orbit" (Harper, 1957); "The Wonder of Light" (Harper, 1960); "The Wonder of Heat Energy" (Harper, 1961), and "Discovering Scientific Method" (Harper, 1963). The last were "Clear Thinking" (1990), and "How Do You Know It's True -- Discovering the Difference Between Science and Superstition" (1991), both published by Prometheus Books.
        After leaving Bushwick High, Mr. Ruchlis designed science kits and other teaching aids in various positions, including at Basic Books and at Harcourt, Brace and World Inc., where he was director of educational technology in the mid-1960's. He then was an adjunct professor at Fairleigh Dickinson University and, from 1970 to 1975, president of Book-Lab Inc. There, he designed the "Science Book-Labs" series and edited "The Hip Reader."
        Mr. Ruchlis was a past president of the Federation of Science Teachers in New York City. At Century Village, he was active in the United Community Organization and edited its newspaper, UCO Reporter.
        Mr. Ruchlis is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Elsie Kardonsky; a daughter, Carol Ember of Bethany, Conn.; a son, Michael, of Berkeley, Calif; a sister, Jennie Powsner of Kerhonkson, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      