
        Samuel M. Brody, a leading New York City architect who with his partner, Lewis Davis, designed some of the city's best-known housing complexes, died yesterday at the Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.  He was 65 years old and lived in Brooklyn Heights.
        He died of melanoma, said his office, Davis, Brody & Associates of Manhattan.
        Though Mr. Brody, who was a founding member of his firm, frowned upon the so-called signature architecture favored by other architects of his generation, he nonetheless left his own strong mark on some of the most important housing built in New York in recent decades. With their tall, notched towers, typically clad in warm brick, such projects as Waterside in the East 20's, built in 1974, and River Park Towers from 1975, in Morris Heights, the Bronx, were easily recognizable as Davis, Brody designs.
        The Davis, Brody housing projects were very much the signs of an era, the peak years of subsidized housing in the 1970's. Mr. Brody's work was notable both for its strong social idealism and for a commitment to urban design.
        "Housing is how you build a city," Mr. Brody once said. "It is where people live day and night. It generates neighborhoods and a sense of community and stores and support services and recreation spaces and hospitals and schools.
        "It is really what the city is about." A Long Partnership
        Mr. Brody was born on Aug. 9, 1926, in Plainfield, N.J., and grew up in Toledo, Ohio. After serving in the Navy during World War II, he graduated from Dartmouth College and Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, receiving his master's degree in architecture in 1950. In 1952, Mr. Brody began his partnership with Lewis Davis. The firm was originally known as Davis, Brody & Wisniewsky and became Davis, Brody & Associates in 1966.
        The firm's work covered a wide range of commissions, from the United States Pavilion at Expo '70 in Osaka, Japan, to the renovation of Astor Court, a project now under construction at the Brooklyn Botanic Gardens. In 1967, the firm designed the first of the subsidized housing complexes for which it is best known: Riverbend, a 625-unit complex in Harlem, broke the mold for urban-renewal projects. Instead of lining up rows of identical towers in bleak urban settings, Riverbend's design retained a strong emphasis of the street wall along Fifth Avenue and took advantage of Harlem River views.
        Waterside, a 1,470-unit complex designed in 1974 for middle-income residents, introduced the notched tower form that became a familiar feature in Davis, Brody's designs. Though distinctly modernist in their hard-edged geometry, these towers possessed a surprisingly lyrical dimension. To admirers, they recalled the medieval towers of Italian hill towns.
        Unlike some modern architects, who were indifferent to urban context, Mr. Brody's designs reinforced the connections between his buildings and the city. At Riverbend, he and Mr. Davis campaigned successfully to have city bus service extended an extra 20 blocks to accommodate Riverbend's residents. River Park Towers, a housing complex in the Bronx, was designed to take advantage of existing commuter rail links.
        When the end of Federal subsidies in the 1980's led to a decline in publicly assisted housing, Mr. Brody and Mr. Davis shifted their practice toward academic and institutional buildings and other kinds of housing. They designed such New York City luxury condominium projects as Zeckendorf Towers and Central Park Place, along with the Steinhardt Conservatory at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden and buildings for the University of Pennsylvania.
        In addition to his architectural practice, Mr. Brody was an adjunct professor of architecture at the Cooper Union School of Architecture for 25 years and had also taught and lectured at Yale, Harvard and other schools. A fellow of the American Institute of Architects since 1969, Mr. Brody received the institute's Firm of the Year Award in 1975. The same year, he received the Arnold Brunner Prize from the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
        Mr. Brody is survived by his wife, the former Sally Rosenthal, a painter; a daughter, Elizabeth Brody of Santa Monica, Calif., and two sons, David and Daniel, both of New York City.
      