
        Jonathan Silver, a figurative sculptor known for infusing classical forms with an extreme, implicitly modern sense of emotion, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer, said his wife, Barbara.
        Mr. Silver did not begin to exhibit his work until 1976, when he was nearly 40, and he had his first one-man show at the New York Studio School only eight years ago. But in the second half of the 1980's, he became known for ambitious installation pieces whose exaggerated, fragmented figures, influenced by both Giacometti and Rodin, could draw the viewer into an emotional maelstrom.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1989, Michael Brenson described Mr. Silver's "Lower Room," which was on view at the Sculpture Center on the Upper East Side, as "a place of recollection without tranquillity and of terrible dreams," and "one of the most moving sculpture installations in New York in years."
        Last fall, Mr. Silver exhibited an even more affecting piece, titled "The New Gretchen: Never Again," at the Victoria Munroe Gallery in SoHo. This work centered on a roughly modeled life-size sculpture of an angry, heavyset woman teetering on the edge of an examination table. His most recent New York exhibition, held at the Munroe Gallery this spring, was a 30-year survey of drawings. Art Through Words
        Mr. Silver was born on Nov. 19, 1937, in Brooklyn, where his father, Edward S., was later District Attorney. He received a Bachelor of Science degree and a master's degree in art history from Columbia University, where he also studied sculpture. Throughout his career, he wrote and lectured on art and alternated between teaching art history and sculpture. In the late 1960's, he taught at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
        At the time of his death, he was teaching at both Montclair State College in New Jersey, where he had been an assistant professor of fine arts since 1970, and the New York Studio School.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, Sara Bunim, and a brother, David, both of Brooklyn.
      