
        Samuel J. Rozzi, the recently retired Police Commissioner of Nassau County, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I.
        He was 67 years old and lived in Oyster Bay, L.I. He died of heart failure, a police spokesman said.
        Mr. Rozzi served 44 years on the Nassau police force, one of the nation's largest, and was its Commissioner for the last 14 years. He retired from that post in January.
        Under his leadership, the Nassau police started a DNA laboratory, an anti-bias crime program, canine and mounted horse units, and special patrols to catch drunken drivers. The agency also automated its fingerprint and photograph files and upgraded its 911 system to identify the caller's telephone and address.
        Commissioner Rozzi also helped to settle a years-long Justice Department suit aimed at increasing hiring and promotion of female and minority officers. At the end of his tenure, he expressed concern about the growing fiscal pressure of the county's rising deficit on the Nassau police, among the nation's best paid. Born in Bethpage
        Mr. Rozzi was born in Bethpage, L.I. Before choosing a police career, he played semiprofessional baseball and tried out for the Boston Red Sox.
        Attending night classes, he graduated from Nassau Community College and Hofstra University, earned a master's degree from Long Island University and trained at the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Police Foundation. He won promotions to the rank of deputy chief before becoming Commissioner.
        He was a past president of the Long Island chapter of the American Academy for Professional Law Enforcement.
        After leaving the police force, Mr. Rozzi started a security and management consulting firm.
        His first wife, the former Evelyn Jones, died in 1978.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Santa Caputo, a deputy county executive; two sons, David and Samuel; a daughter, Lynn Casey; three brothers, Thomas, Fred and Charles; two sisters, Helen Aragonesi and Anne Paulsrud, and three grandchildren.
      