
        The Rev. Dr. Reuben A. Sheares, a pastor and a former national leader of the United Church of Christ and ecumenical organizations, died on Saturday at the Osteopathic Hospital in Olympia Fields, Ill. He was 58 years old and lived in Olympia Fields.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Sheares had been the minister of the Congregational Church of Park Manor in Chicago since 1988. The Congregational Christian Churches and the Evangelical and Reformed Church merged in 1957 to become the United Church of Christ.
        During the 15 years before he became pastor of the Chicago church, Dr. Sheares was the executive director of the national Office for Church Life and Leadership for the United Church of Christ. In that post he assisted ministers, lay leaders and congregations. He also recruited black clergymen.
        Dr. Sheares served on the National Council of Churches governing board and executive committee and was an officer of the Consultation on Church Union, a unity movement of nine denominations.
        He was born in Charleston, S.C. He graduated from Talladega College and Colgate-Rochester Divinity School and earned a master's degree in public administration from Roosevelt University and a doctorate from Chicago Theological Seminary.
        Dr. Sheares served pastorates in Nashville, Tenn., and Jamestown, N.Y., became the minister of the United Church of Christ's metropolitan mission for Southern California and the Southwest and was later their national secretary for urban church development. From 1967-73 he was the associate executive director of Chicago's Community Renewal Society.
        He also served on the boards of Evangelical Health Systems, Chicago Theological Seminary, Tougaloo College and United Theological Seminary of the Twin Cities.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Ora Myles; two sons, Reuben 3d, of Columbus, Ohio, and Bradley, of Chalfont, Pa.; two sisters, Betty Ellis and Naomi Young, both of Charleston, and four grandchildren.
      