
        Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz, spiritual leader of a major Queens congregation who became a spokesman for rabbis nationwide and an intimate of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died yesterday at Long Island Jewish Hospital Medical Center. He was 77 years old.
        Rabbi Mowshowitz died after a long battle with cancer, according to Rabbi Geoffrey Botnick of the Hillcrest Jewish Center, the congregation where Rabbi Mowshowitz served for 34 years before becoming rabbi emeritus in 1983.
        Rabbi Mowshowitz had a long friendship with Governor Cuomo, a Roman Catholic, who often called him "my rabbi."
        Yesterday Governor Cuomo said: "The people of New York have lost a great spiritual leader, an eloquent preacher whose greatest sermon was his life." Orthodox and Conservative Ties
        For many years, Rabbi Mowshowitz held the title of special assistant for community affairs in the Governor's office, where he negotiated issues between the state and religious groups.
        Rabbi Mowshowitz, who was ordained in 1937 at the Orthodox seminary affiliated with Yeshiva University, had close ties to both the Orthodox and Conservative movements. Although the congregation where he spent most of his career was Conservative, Yeshiva awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1966.
        While Rabbi Mowshowitz became a national figure, "he was a rabbi to his congregation first," Rabbi Israel Miller of Yeshiva said.
        Rabbi Miller added, "He was also the one all of us would call when we needed something done of a political nature."
        Rabbi Mowshowitz, the son of a rabbi, was born in Poland in 1914. He came to the United States with his family in 1929 and studied at Yeshiva, where he met his wife, the former Libby Polacheck, a rabbi's daughter.
        Before going to the Queens congregation, he held pulpits in Durham, N.C., and Omaha. He also earned a doctorate in psychology from Duke University.
        Early in his career, the rabbi's work transcended his individual pulpit. In 1955, he was a member of a study trip to 13 countries, including Israel, Egypt and East and West Germany, with the National Conference of Christians and Jews. A year later, he joined one of the first delegations of rabbis to visit the Soviet Union to investigate the conditions of Soviet Jewry. He also traveled to Poland, South Africa, Iran, Hungary, Poland, Romania and other countries on similar missions.
        In the New York area, Rabbi Mowshowitz was a founder of the International Synagogue at Kennedy International Airport and served as its honorary president. He also served on the boards of numerous charitable, interfaith and interracial organizations in New York. Headed Board of Rabbis
        In the 1960's, he was the president of the New York Board of Rabbis, an organization of 1,000 rabbis from the major denominations and, in that capacity, commented on everything from Supreme Court decisions to Vatican relations.
        In 1987, more than 1,000 colleagues, congregants and public officials gathered at the Hillcrest Jewish Center to honor Rabbi Mowshowitz on the 50th anniversary of his ordination. Among those who attended was Governor Cuomo who called him "a man of God, too sensible to ignore the world and too wise to embrace it as the only reality."
        At that time, the sanctuary of the congregation was rededicated in his name.
        In addition to his wife, Rabbi Mowshowitz is survived by a son, Dr. Solomon, of Manhattan; a daughter, Sylvia Orenstein of South Orange, N.J.; two sisters, Frieda Pusin of Florham Park, N.J., and Rose Gibber of Monticello, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      