
        Pierre A. G. Billotte, a French military hero in World War II who later served in high diplomatic and Cabinet posts, died on Monday in a hospital near Paris. He was 86 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        General Billotte was a top aide to de Gaulle in the war and entered Paris with the French troops. After the war, he was an official at the United Nations in its formative years and helped forge the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        In a long political career, he served in many appointed and elected posts, from suburban mayor to Defense Minister. A left-leaning Gaullist who once broke sharply with de Gaulle, he was outspoken on issues ranging from Algerian independence to nuclear weapons. Captured by the Germans
        General Billotte was a leader in the French Resistance and Free French movements. In 1940, he was wounded by the Germans and captured. He escaped from a German prisoner-of-war camp into the Soviet Union, where he represented France in Moscow in 1941-42. Then he returned to become de Gaulle's military Chief of Staff and Secretary of National Defense, based in London.
        Commanding an armored brigade, he led the first liberation forces that entered Paris in 1944 and arrested its German governor. He then commanded a division fighting in eastern France, and after Germany fell he became Rhineland's governor.
        From 1946-50, General Billotte headed the French military delegation at the United Nations, and under an international rotation system frequently served as chief of the United Nations Military Staff Committee.
        Friendly with American officials, he engaged in public advocacy and secret talks with the United States and Britain that culminated in NATO. As president of the French Movement for Atlantic Unity, he was an early proponent of uniting Western democracies against the Soviet Union and the spread of Communism.
        Quitting his army post in 1950 to enter politics, General Billotte protested that the French Government was failing to formulate a global strategy.
        He warned that the Russians were obstructing peace and building armaments "full of perils for the free peoples." He urged the United States to keep Communism out of Asia and develop the hydrogen bomb to regain superiority, and also said Germany should rearm, with controls. In the National Assembly
        A founder of the Gaullist party, he was elected in 1951 to the National Assembly from the Burgundy Department of the Cote d'Or. The next year he led a rebellion among Gaullists, but later reconciled with them. In 1955 he served as Defense Minister in the Edgar Faure Administration.
        He was elected a deputy for the Seine Department in 1962 and Mayor of Creteil, near Paris, in 1965. In 1964 he served as an intermediary between de Gaulle and President Lyndon B. Johnson in efforts to mend French-American relations. From 1966-68 he was the Minister of Overseas Territories in the Government of Georges Pompidou.
        General Billotte was born into a military family and graduated from the St.-Cyr Military Academy in 1926. He was stationed in the Far East, then in Paris. His first combat command was in 1939.
      