
        Robert D. Calkins, an economist and educator who was president emeritus of the Brookings Institution, died yesterday at the Carriage Hill Nursing Center in Silver Spring, Md. He was 89 years old.
        He died of pneumonia, the nursing center said.
        Dr. Calkins led Brookings from 1952-67 during an era of growth as an influential policy analysis organization. Brookings, a nonprofit institution, specializes in foreign policy, economic and government issues.
        During his tenure, Brookings broadened its range of research projects, expanded its budget fivefold, enlarged its staff, built a major endowment and tripled its space by building its Center for Advanced Study in Washington.
        The organization's influence was evident when President John F. Kennedy took office in 1961. His Administration relied heavily on the institute's briefing papers on many issues facing the nation. Theodore C. Sorensen, who was Kennedy's special counsel, wrote that Brookings "deserves a large share of the credit for history's smoothest transfer of power between opposing parties."
        Before running Brookings, Dr. Calkins served from 1947-52 as the director of the General Education Board, a foundation financed by John D. Rockefeller Sr. that promoted education improvements in the South.
        In his earlier academic career, Dr. Calkins was an administrator at the University of California at Berkeley from 1932-41, serving as chairman of the Economics Department for five years and dean of the College of Commerce for four years. From 1941-47 he was dean of the Business School at Columbia University.
        After leaving Brookings in 1967, he returned to academia, becoming vice chancellor of the University of California at Santa Cruz until 1970. Labor Mediator
        In labor relations, Dr. Calkins served as vice chairman of the Regional Labor Board of San Francisco, a member of the National Railway Labor Panel and a mediator for the War Labor Board during World War II.
        His other Government service included serving as director of the New York Federal Reserve Bank and a member of the 1957 Gaither Committee, which conducted a top-secret review of the country's military and civil defense for the National Security Council.
        Born in Lebanon, Conn., Dr. Calkins grew up in Florida and Virginia.
        He worked his way through the College of William and Mary as a telephone operator and drug store soda jerk, graduating in 1925. He spent the next seven years at Stanford University, earning his master's and doctoral degrees in economics.
        His wife of nearly 63 years, the former Mary Gilmer, died in March. He is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth C. Davis of Pullman, Wash.; a son, Robert G. of Ithaca, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      