
        Dr. Durant Waite Robertson Jr., Murray Professor emeritus of English at Princeton University and a medievalist widely regarded as this century's most influential Chaucer scholar, died on Sunday at a retirement home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 77 years old.
        He died after a period of declining health, said Prof. John V. Fleming of Princeton's English department.
        Dr. Robertson, who retired in 1980 after 34 years on the Princeton faculty, specialized in medieval culture. He was known among scholars principally for his sometimes controversial interpretive approach to medieval literature.
        Colleagues referred to his method as "Robertsonianism"; he said he thought of it simply as "historical criticism." In his view, studying the literature of long-ago eras requires not only thorough training in philology but awareness of shifting cultural patterns. Without it, he maintained, the old texts remain as culturally opaque as their language is archaic. Middle English Allegory
        Dr. Robertson focused on the poet Geoffrey Chaucer (c.1340-1400) and on "Piers Plowman," an allegory considered the greatest Middle English poem before Chaucer, combining social satire with a vision of simple Christian life.
        He was the co-author with Bernard F. Huppe of the seven-volume " 'Piers Plowman' and Scriptural Tradition" (1951), "A Preface to Chaucer: Studies in Medieval Perspectives" (1962), "Fruyt and Chaff: Studies in Chaucer's Allegories" (with Huppe, 1963), and "Essays in Medieval Culture" (1980), all published by Princeton University Press; "Chaucer's London" (John Wiley & Sons, 1968), "The Literature of Medieval England" (McGraw-Hill, 1970), and Abelard and Heloise" (Dial Press, 1972).
        He also translated and wrote an introduction to "De doctrina christiana" ("On Christian doctrine") of St. Augustine (Liberal Arts Press, 1962) and frequently contributed to scholarly journals.
        Dr. Robertson was born in Washington, and graduated from the University of North Carolina, where he also earned his master's and Ph.D. degrees. He briefly taught at the University of Maryland before joining the Princeton faculty in 1946.
        Dr. Robertson is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Betty McLean Hansen; a daughter, Susanna Howley of Princeton; and two sons, Durant Waite 3d, also of Princeton, and Douglas, of Far Hills, N.J.
      