
        Rudolf C. Ising, an early aide to Walt Disney who left to create the "Looney Tunes" and "Merrie Melodies" cartoons and was the first independent cartoon producer to win an Academy Award, died on Saturday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Ising was working at a photograph-finishing laboratory when he was hired by Mr. Disney, who advertised in a local newspaper for a cartoonist when he was starting out in the early 1920's in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Ising helped to ink the drawings in the first animated Disney films, the "Newton Laugh-o-Grams."
        The operation moved to California, and Mr. Ising followed. But soon he and another Disney employee, Hugh Harman, broke away to create their own cartoons. Synchronizing Dialogue and Action
        Their initial production, "Bosko the Talk-Ink Kid," in 1929, was a breakthrough as the first talkie cartoon, synchronizing dialogue on the soundtrack with the action on screen. Disney's earlier "Steamboat Willie" had music and sound effects but no dialogue.
        The Bosko cartoon was also notable for its sign off, "That's all, folks," which became Porky Pig's stammered trademark.
        In 1930, the two men were hired by Warner Brothers, for which they devised the "Looney Tunes" label, a takeoff on Disney's "Silly Symphonies" series.
        In 1934, they joined Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, where they created Barney Bear, the ancestor of Yogi Bear. The inspiration for the lethargic Barney came from Mr. Ising's habit of dozing off in staff meetings.
        While Mr. Harman specialized in "Looney Tunes," Mr. Ising developed "Merrie Melodies," which emphasized the musical element. His strength was in writing and producing rather than illustrating.
        Both cartoon series became staples of the nation's movie-theater programs. Winning an Academy Award
        In 1940, Mr. Ising's "Milky Way," a cartoon about three kittens, won an Academy Award, the first non-Disney cartoon to capture an Oscar. Mr. Ising was also honored in 1976 by the International Animation Society.
        In World War II, he worked on training films as the head of the animation division for the Army Air Forces movie unit.
        After the war, he worked on commercials and television projects and retired in the 1970's.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Cynthia Westlake, and a son, Rudolf Jr., of Laguna Beach, Calif.
      