
        Ralph Friedman, chairman of the American Jewish Committee's national executive board from 1964 to 1966 and a retired financial executive, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The immediate cause of his death was cardiac failure, and he had been suffering from pneumonia and other ailments in recent weeks following neck surgery, said his son, Robert.
        In his years of volunteer work with the committee, an intergroup relations agency founded in 1906, Mr. Friedman was active in Jewish-Roman Catholic relations and other spheres. Before becoming chairman of the executive panel, he headed the agency's committee on foreign affairs.
        While he was chairman, the agency sponsored a joint Roman Catholic-Jewish research center that was established in Rome with the goal of striking at the roots of prejudice, especially anti-Semitism, in religious teachings throughout the world. 'New Understanding'
        It was also as chairman that in 1965 Mr. Friedman praised textbooks that were then being distributed in increasing numbers in American parochial schools that portrayed Jews in a positive light and rejected the notion of collective Jewish guilt for the crucifixion of Jesus.
        He said the books "provide a basis of promising new understanding between Catholic and Jewish people."
        Earlier, as a member of the agency's executive board, he headed a group that developed and endowed a program of teaching in religious and racial group relations, under joint Roman Catholic and Jewish sponsorship, that began in 1962 at Pro Deo University in Rome.
        Mr. Friedman, who was also a philanthropist and conservationist, was born in Brooklyn and grew up there. He studied at City College and New York University and went on to become senior general partner of Friedman & Company, a member of the New York Stock Exchange, from 1933 to 1947. Held Company Posts
        He was also chairman for some years of the Metropolitan Body Company, a maker of truck bodies, and the Standard Milling Company, a producer of flour and grain products.
        In 1963, he became the director in charge of North American operations of Bank Leumi Le Israel, the Israeli bank. In 1968, he became a director of Bank Leumi Trust of New York, a subsidiary. He retired from both posts in 1979.
        Over the years, he was variously a director or trustee of Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx, Hillside Hospital in Queens and the Menninger Foundation.
        In 1933, he married Ruth J. Ehrich. She died in 1981.
        Mr. Friedman is survived by two sons, Peter and Robert, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      