
        Paul P. Blackburn Jr., a retired vice admiral who commanded the Navy's Seventh Fleet in the early months of its buildup in the Vietnam War, died Wednesday at the Seabrook retirement center in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 83 years old.
        He died of lymph cancer, his family said.
        Admiral Blackburn took command of the fleet on March 1, 1965, as American forces were building up after the Gulf of Tonkin episode in August 1964. He was in charge of 125 ships, 650 aircraft and 65,000 troops in Asia and the Pacific.
        For the start of a major bombing attack against North Vietnam in July 1965, he was joined aboard the carrier Independence by Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and Gen. Earle G. Wheeler, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. President Lyndon B. Johnson, with White House and Pentagon officials, helped them pick the targets. Vietnam Duty Cut Short
        That September, Admiral Blackburn commanded from his flagship, the Oklahoma, a guided-missile carrier, as naval guns pounded the shoreline. That cleared the way for thousands of marines to make an amphibious landing on the Batangan Peninsula southeast of Da Nang and drive Vietcong forces into the hands of South Vietnamese ground units.
        His Vietnam tenure was cut short when he was became ill and was temporarily hospitalized. He was replaced as the fleet commander on Dec. 1, 1965.
        Before Vietnam, Admiral Blackburn commanded naval forces on patrol off Taiwan in 1958 and 1959, when the Communist government on China's mainland was shelling the islands of Quemoy and Matsu, which were controlled by the nationalist government based on Taiwan.
        Among his other posts and assignments were sea duty in the Middle East and Persian Gulf, commander of the carrier Intrepid, chief of staff of the Naval Air Force Atlantic Fleet, the Navy's office of the chief of Naval Operations, commander of the Pacific Fleet's Carrier Division 3 and the Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1962-64. World War II Veteran
        A combat veteran of World War II, where he served in both the Atlantic and the Pacific, as well as of Vietnam, he won decorations that included the Bronze Star, two Legion of Merit awards and the Distinguished Service Medal.
        He retired in 1969 as the chief of staff of the United States Strike Command at McDill Air Force Base in Florida.
        Born in Seattle, Admiral Blackburn grew up in Washington, D.C. His father was a Navy officer who reached the rank of commodore.
        Admiral Blackburn began his career at the Naval Academy in 1926. Later he also graduated from the Air War College and National War College. His early service was as an aviator from 1932-42.
        Surviving are his wife of 61 years, the former Marian Alice Moulden; two sons, Paul P. Blackburn 3d of Tokyo and W. Stewart Blackburn of Medomak, Me.; a brother, John T. Blackburn of Jacksonville, Fla.; three granddaughters, and one great-granddaughter.
      