
        Alfred Bradley Fitt, a Congressional legal counsel and former Assistant Secretary of Defense, died on Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, his hometown. He was 69 years old.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Fitt, a Yale University graduate with a law degree from the University of Michigan, retired last week as the only general counsel in the history of the Congressional Budget Office. He joined the fledgling agency 17 years ago and played a pivotal role in defining its structure, functions and style of operations.
        "Mr. Fitt insured that the institution's legal foundations were rock solid," Robert D. Reischauer, the agency's director, said yesterday, "and that it never strayed from the straight and narrow." Warned of Budget Deficits
        For a number of years Mr. Fitt issued deficit-reduction advisories to guide members of Congress who were struggling with Federal budget gaps. But as those gaps widened he warned that "the Government is on a course for which history provides no charts." He wrote that warning into his introduction to the 1984 volume of his agency's budget-reduction guides.
        Mr. Fitt was born in Highland Park, Ill., and grew up in Grosse Pointe, Mich. After serving in the Army in World War II he received his law degree and went into private practice in Detroit. He set out on his public service career in 1960.
        He was a legal adviser to Gov. G. Mennen Williams of Michigan, succeeding his close friend, Philip A. Hart, who was on his way to becoming a United States Senator. He also worked in the 1960 Presidential campaign as a speechwriter for Senator Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Mr. Fitt went to Washington the following year as a staff counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee and associate counsel to Senator Hart's Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure. From 1962 to 1969, he held a number of positions in the Department of Defense, finally becoming Assistant Secretary for Manpower.
        From 1969 until 1975, when he joined the Congressional Budget Office, he was a special adviser to the president of Yale.
        Mr. Fitt's first marriage, to Patricia Hewitt, ended in divorce in 1977.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Lois D. Rice; two daughters, Cate Fitt of Richmond and Ann Fitt of Canton, Ohio; two sons, Benjamin J. Fitt of Albany and Craig S. Fitt of New York; a sister, Mary Fitt McCarthy of Tennessee, and two stepchildren, Susan E. Rice and E. John Rice Jr., both of Washington.
      