
        W. Colston Leigh, who parlayed a moment of fluke publicity into the creation of the world's leading speakers' agency, died on Wednesday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 90 years old.
        The cause of death was not given. His family said he had been in declining health.
        Mr. Leigh's first job, as a 17-cents-an-hour scrap sorter in a junkyard, was followed by stints as a gasoline station attendant, night watchman, telephone inspector, stenographer and tango teacher. He said he never earned more than $30 a week "until I got into the lecture business and learned to make other people talk for me."
        That happened quite by chance. His father, William Robinson Leigh, was a noted painter of the American West. An Indian model of his, Princess Chinquilla, had a sideline as a speaker and suggested that young Mr. Leigh try working for her lecture bureau in Manhattan. He did, but had a falling-out and was dismissed.
        Working next as a carbon-paper salesman, he started a part-time speakers' agency in his boarding-house room. In 1926 he booked Rupert Hughes, a speaker of modest note, for a lecture at Town Hall in Manhattan debunking George Washington's haloed image. The speech portrayed the first President as a whisky distiller, racehorse owner, reckless gambler and rake who once caught a cold when he fled sans breeches from a mistress's boudoir. Soon in National Demand
        An elderly woman in the audience spoke up: "Well, why not? Wasn't he the Father of his Country?" The ensuing commotion, with some people amused and others outraged, became front-page news. Suddenly Mr. Hughes was in national demand -- along with his agent.
        The flamboyant Mr. Leigh quit his day job as a salesman. Soon the W. Colston Leigh Bureau eclipsed dozens of established rivals, expanding its staff and opening branches in several cities. By 1945 he estimated his agency commanded 80 percent of the nation's lecture business and exceeded $1 million a year in commissions.
        His roster of international celebrities included Eleanor Roosevelt, Edward R. Murrow, Clement Atlee, William L. Shirer, Jim Thorpe, Art Buchwald, Will Durant, Indira Gandhi and James A. Michener.
        His son, William C. Leigh Jr., the agency's current president, said the agency remained a leader in size and prestige in a $1 billion-a-year industry. He said his father's innovations included aggressively marketing the speakers, using domestic speakers instead of relying on foreign notables, and expanding bookings with business audiences.
        Mr. Leigh retired from the agency in 1976 and in 1986 he retired from Ardis Leigh, the antique store he and his wife ran in Princeton, N.J.
        Born in New York City, he grew up in Portsmouth, Va. He turned down a college baseball scholarship in Georgia to try his fortune in New York as an opera singer, a venture that failed. An early marriage to Helen M. Cady ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of nearly 46 years, the former Ardis Neff; his son, William of Bernardsville, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      