
        Paul G. Pavel, a Holocaust survivor who became a New York City official and a psychotherapist who influenced many writers, performers and artists, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Pavel led three lives in New York, one as a city employment official and national expert on testing English skills, another as a psychotherapist with up to 70 clients and a third as a mentor and friend of people in the arts.
        He played a catalytic role in "Maus II" (Pantheon, 1991), the 1992 Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoon book on the Holocaust. The author, Art Spiegelman, said in a telephone interview yesterday, "I started as a patient and became a friend."
        He described Mr. Pavel as "the animal-loving shrink/Holocaust survivor who helped me understand Auschwitz enough to dare write/draw about it." The book's second chapter tells how Mr. Pavel's insights helped to make the book possible.
        Two other former patients, Spalding Gray, the writer and actor, and Melvin Konner, the anthropologist and author, also refer to Mr. Pavel in their works.
        Mr. Spiegelman recalled an occasion when two of Mr. Pavel's associates were talking about him in a Greenwich Village cafe. Several patrons overheard the name and chimed in with their own favorite Pavel anecdotes. Some of the talk was about his penchant for caring for hungry or injured animals, from stray cats and dogs to Central Park squirrels and ducks.
        For the last 27 years, Mr. Pavel worked for the city's employment agencies under the administrations of Mayors John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. His current post was director of staff development and training for the Department of Employment.
        Mary Quigley, the agency's assistant commissioner, said he supervised training programs and was an expert on testing. He developed a nationally used test of English skills for people with a different native language. Skills in Concentration Camps
        Mr. Pavel was born in Moravia in Czechoslovakia. At the age of 13 he was sent to England to escape Nazism. Instead he was turned back at the border and for the next five years was sent to a succession of concentration camps, including Auschwitz. He survived by learning skills like welding and plumbing to make himself useful. His mother and many other relatives died.
        After liberation, he finished university study in Czechoslovakia, then ran his family's brick factory and real-estate there until the Communist takeover.
        He fled to Israel, where he enlisted in the war of independence. Afterward he helped found a kibbutz, worked with juvenile delinquents and developed therapy techniques. Then he went to Germany as the director of the Foundation for Redemocratization of German Youth, a war rehabilitation program. Next he studied at the Swiss Institute for Applied Psychology, and lived briefly in Paris.
        Coming to the United States in 1960, he changed his name from Pavel Pisk. He studied at Columbia University and the New School for Social Research, where he earned a master's degree and completed the courses for a doctorate but not the dissertation.
        His first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 16 years, the former Suzanne Rogers.
      