
        Perry E. Hall, the last of the founding partners of Morgan Stanley & Company Inc., the New York-based international investment bank, died yesterday at the JML Care Center in Falmouth, Mass. A resident of nearby Woods Hole, he was 96 years old.
        One of the most energetic and colorful Wall Street figures of his era, Mr. Hall was one of six original officers and directors who formed the firm in 1935. He presided as managing partner for 10 years until 1961, retired in 1972 as a limited partner, but remained an advisory director at the time of his death.
        A native of Springfield, N.J., Mr. Hall graduated from Princeton University in 1917. He served in the field artillery in World War I, reaching the rank of captain. He joined the Guaranty Trust Company of New York in 1919. He moved to J. P. Morgan & Company in 1925 and to Drexel & Company in 1930, becoming a partner the following year. The Genesis of Morgan Stanley
        When the Glass-Steagall Act mandated separation of commercial and investment banking operations, Mr. Hall teamed up with a group of partners and staff members from J. P. Morgan and Drexel to establish Morgan Stanley. The firm was set up in 1935 as a securities underwriter and wholesaler and became a partnership in 1941, with Mr. Hall a general partner.
        The firm today employs 7,000 people and counts capital assets of $3 billion.
        Mr. Hall was a prominent fund-raiser, tapping Wall Street sources to benefit Princeton, various charities as well as political candidates. One notable beneficiary was the 1952 Eisenhower-Nixon Presidential campaign.
        Mr. Hall was the rare sportsman who qualified for both the National Amateur Golf and National Amateur Tennis Championships, qualifying in tennis in 1922 and for golf 10 years later. A competitive fisherman, he continued his outings aboard his 46-foot boat, Tomahawk, almost daily well into his 90's.
        Mr. Hall's wife of 63 years, the former Alice Hathaway Bayard, died in 1987. He is survived by three daughters, Alice H. van Buren of Harwich Port, Mass., Virginia S. Hall of Patterson, N.Y., and Anne H. Smith of Concord, Mass.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      