
        Allen Newell, a founder of the field of artificial intelligence and a leader in the study of human thinking, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 65 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
        He died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        Dr. Newell, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, was considered one of the four fathers of artificial intelligence and an expert on how people think. He earned an international reputation for developing programs for complex information processing. He was the founding president of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence and had also headed the Cognitive Science Society.
        Last month, President Bush awarded him the National Medal of Science.
        Dr. Newell's interest in artificial intelligence grew from his work in the early 1950's on a Rand Corporation project for the Air Force to simulate an early warning monitoring station with radar screens and a crew. In trying to predict how the crew members would react, he became fascinated with the puzzle of how people think and make decisions.
        Along with Dr. Newell and Dr. Simon, Marvin Minsky from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and John McCarthy from Stanford University are considered the pioneers in artificial intelligence by experts.
        In the 1980's, Dr. Newell developed Soar, a sophisticated software system that learns and solves problems in a manner similar to human mental processes. He was the author or co-author of 10 books and more than 200 academic articles. His last book was "Unified Theories of Cognition" (Harvard, 1990).
        Dr. Newell was born in San Francisco. He served two years in the Navy at the end of World War II. He graduated from Stanford University in 1949 and earned a doctorate in industrial administration at Carnegie in 1957.
        He worked for Rand from 1950 to 1961, when he joined Carnegie. There he helped create the School of Computer Science and continued as a professor until his death.
        His survivors include his wife of 45 years, the former Noel McKenna; a son, Paul, of Manhattan Beach, Calif., and a sister, Ann, of Pennsylvania.
      