
        Rae Dalven, a translator of modern Greek poets and historian of Greek Jews, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Friends said she had been in declining health but they did not know the cause of death.
        Dr. Dalven was retired as a professor of English literature and department chairwoman at Ladycliff College in Highland Falls, N.Y.
        Born in Preveza, Greece, she immigrated to the United States with her family as a youngster. She graduated from Hunter College and earned a doctorate in English at New York University. Translated Greek Poetry
        Among her translations was "Modern Greek Poetry" (Gaer, 1949). In a review, W. H. Auden wrote, "we should be very grateful to Miss Dalven for introducing us to a world of poetry which has been closed to us" by the language barrier. Mr. Auden later wrote the introductions to her "The Complete Poems of Cavafy" (Harcourt, Brace, 1961) and "The Fourth Dimension" (Godine, 1977), translating Yannis Ritsos.
        Dr. Dalven also wrote two plays, the first of which, "A Season in Hell," about the French poets Rimbaud and Verlaine, was produced Off Broadway in 1950.
        Last year she finished "Our Kind of People," an autobiographical play about a family of Greek-Jewish immigrants. It was performed at a synagogue in Manhattan and is scheduled for presentation this fall at a Brooklyn theater and the Greek Orthodox Cathedral in Manhattan.
        Dr. Dalven's special interest was the history of Jews in Greece, especially the community in Ioannina in northern Greece, most of whose members were driven out during World War II. They were Romaniotes, who traced their ancestry to Palestinians and who migrated as early as 300 B.C. They retained their customs and liturgy, which differed from those of the more numerous Sephardim whose ancestors were expelled from Spain.
        Dr. Dalven was the editor of "The Sephardic Scholar," a journal; a board member of the American Friends of the Jewish Museum of Greece and a past president of the American Society of Sephardic Studies and of the Sisterhood of Janina, a Romaniote group.
        Her marriage to Jack Negrin ended in divorce. She is survived by several nieces and nephews.
      