
        Jeffrey T. Porcaro, a rock musician who played drums for Sonny and Cher, Bruce Springsteen and the Grammy Award-winning group Toto, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 38 years old.
        His manager, Larry Fitzgerald, said it was believed that he died of cardiac arrest, possibly from an allergic reaction to pesticides. Autopsy results are awaited, said a spokesman for Humana Hospital West Hills in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Porcaro collapsed while spraying pesticides in the garden at his home in Hidden Hills, a Los Angeles suburb. He was taken to Humana Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
        Mr. Porcaro was a sought-after studio musician who performed on recordings for such stars as Paul Simon, Boz Scaggs, Joe Cocker, Steely Dan, Seals and Crofts, Hoyt Axton and Mr. Springsteen, with whom he recorded the "Human Touch" album released this year. On the Road
        Mr. Porcaro, the son of the percussionist Joe Porcaro, dropped out of high school to tour as a drummer for Sonny and Cher.
        In 1978, he joined in the formation of the Toto band, led by the keyboardist David Paich. Most of band members were acquaintances from Ulysses S. Grant High School in Los Angeles and included Mr. Porcaro's brothers, Steve, a keyboardist, and Michael, a bass player.
        The group's first album, "Toto," was a hit, selling more than two million records in 1978. Critics called Toto's style polished and high-powered.
        Toto dominated the Grammy competition for 1982, with nine nominations and seven awards, including awards for the record of the year, "Rosanna," and album of the year, "Toto IV."
        The group's other Top 40 hits were "Hold the Line" in 1978; "I'll Supply the Love," "Georgy Porgy" and "99" in 1979; "Africa" in 1982, and "I Won't Hold You Back" in 1983.
        Mr. Porcaro also wrote songs, including "Lowdown" and "Lido Shuffle" for Mr. Scaggs's "Silk Degrees" album.
        Mr. Porcaro was preparing for an international concert tour with Toto to promote the group's forthcoming album, "Kingdom of Desire."
        In addition to his father and his brothers, who live in Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, Susan; three sons, Miles, Niko and Christopher; his mother, Eileen, and a sister, Joleen Duddy, both of Los Angeles.
      