
        Grand Ayatollah Abolqassem al-Khoei, one of the greatest scholars of Shiite Islam, died Saturday, the Baghdad radio announced today. He was 95 years old.
        The Ayatollah died of a heart ailment, the radio said. He had had a pacemaker implanted in July.
        His grandson Youssef al-Khoei said the Ayatollah collapsed and died while preparing for Saturday afternoon prayers in his hometown, Kufa, near the holy city of Najaf, a major center of Shiite scholarship about 100 miles south of Baghdad.
        Both Iraq and Iran, where many of the world's estimated 200 million Shiites live, declared three days of mourning. Shiites, who make up about 20 percent of the world's Muslims, split with mainstream Islam in the seventh century in a dispute over succession to the Prophet Mohammed. Praise From Baghdad
        Ayatollah Khoei, who wrote more than 90 books and manuscripts on Shiite theology, was one of six grand ayatollahs, the highest officials in the Shiite hierarchy. The other grand ayatollahs live in Iran in the cities of Qom and Meshed.
        In Shiite religious circles, many scholars viewed Ayatollah al-Khoei as someone with more command of theological subjects than the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran, whose political status gave him greater prominence.
        While Iraq praised Ayatollah al-Khoei, who the official Iraqi press agency said was buried in Najaf at a ceremony attended by "a large crowd," Iran said that crowds were prevented from attending the funeral and that a delegation of Iranian mourners was still awaiting permission from Baghdad to pay its respects.
        Iraqi opponents of the Baghdad Government and some relatives of the Ayatollah in London said that only members of his family were allowed to attend a restrained funeral on Saturday. The Iraqi radio and his grandson said he was buried early this morning.  His grandson said that under pressure from the Iraqi authorities there had been little ceremony. TV Appearance Called Forced
        Experts on Iraqi affairs said it was doubtful that Iraq would permit any large funeral for the Ayatollah, for fear that it would turn into a protest by Shiite Iraqi opponents of President Saddam Hussein.
        Iraqi opponents of the Government have maintained for months that the Ayatollah had been placed under virtual house arrest.
        They said that a television appearance by the Ayatollah in which he praised President Hussein was forced upon him under threat of death after the uprising of Shiites in March 1991 after the end of the Persian Gulf war.
        The uprising was violently put down.  Human rights organizations have said that thousands of Iraqi Shiites were killed.
        Throughout his life, Ayatollah Khoei had studiously avoided any involvement in politics.
        He came to Iraq as a 15-year-old religious student, settling in Najaf. Focusing on religious and scholarly studies, he rose in status on the strength of his reputation as a religious leader and interpreter of Islamic matters. Religious Leaders Executed
        Today, in a pointed reminder that such a restricted role in Iraqi society is precisely what Baghdad would like to see for clerics, the Baghdad radio praised the Ayatollah as a "fine example of a committed cleric who served Islam and the nation."
        In the early 1980's, Iraq executed a grand ayatollah after accusing him of backing a movement that was aiming to ally itself with Iran and overthrow President Hussein. While more than half of Iraq's 17 million people are Shiites, Mr. Hussein is a Sunni Muslim.
        The Iraqi regime has arrested, jailed and executed hundreds of Shiite religious leaders, their families and their supporters, while trying to promote the image of those, like Ayatollah Khoei, who steered clear of politics.
        In Iran, the country's spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, praised Ayatollah Khoei as "a pivot" of the Shiite uprising against Mr. Hussein, charging that he was "tormented" by Iraqi authorities after the gulf war.
      