
        Joseph Shuster, a co-creator of Superman who sold the rights to the character for $130, never dreaming it would become a legendary figure in popular culture reaping billions of dollars, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 78 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, the Los Angeles County coroner's office said.
        One night in 1934, Jerry Siegel conceived a superhuman hero, and the next day, he asked his buddy, Mr. Shuster, to draw it. Syndicators repeatedly rejected their comic strip until 1938, when Detective Comics bought the 13-page story for $10 a sheet.
        "We were young kids," Mr. Shuster said later. "What did we know?"
        Published as a booklet under the name Action Comics, Superman was an instant hit. His popularity helped establish comic books as a format and spawned a genre of bizarrely costumed superheros, from Spiderman to Wonder Woman. Superman: The Industry
        Superman reigned as king of the realm and an industry unto himself. Almost faster than a speeding bullet, the Man of Steel appeared in newspaper comics, a radio show, animated cartoons, movie-theater serials, a television series, a Broadway musical, a novel, feature films and a stream of franchised goods, from lunch boxes and toys to bubble gum. In the 1970's alone, Superman sales exceeded $1 billion.
        Superman was the baby alien from outer space, reared as a normal American boy and growing up to become Clark Kent, mild-mannered reporter. But when danger loomed, he transformed into the crusader for Truth, Justice and the American Way, ducking into the nearest phone booth, doffing his glasses and stripping to a blue bodysuit. Red cape flowing, he flew off, using X-ray vision and other powers to thwart the latest evil menace or global disaster. He leaped over tall buildings, gallantly kept the admiring and curious Lois Lane at arm's length and feared only kryptonite.
        For several years, the Shuster-Siegel team earned a modest living as Superman's cartoonist and writer. But when they pressed for a share of the profits, they were dumped. They tried other story lines, including a character called Funnyman, which flopped. Poverty, Then a Pension
        Protracted litigation seeking money from Superman's owners also failed. By the 1970's, both men were nearly destitute and even sold their old comic books as collectors' items worth thousands of dollars apiece. Mr. Shuster, partly blind and unemployed, lived in a threadbare Queens apartment.
        Finally he and Mr. Siegel appealed to the court of public opinion. In 1975 Warner Communications, which then owned Superman, volunteered to give each a pension of $20,000 a year. In 1981 the figure was raised to $30,000, plus a $15,000 bonus after the first film in the "Superman" series grossed $275 million.
        Mr. Shuster was born in Toronto. As a youngster, he moved with his family to Cleveland, where he met Mr. Siegel.
        No information on survivors was available.
      