
        Dr. H. Stanley Bennett, an internationally known anatomist, cell biologist and professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, died Aug. 9 at the Quadrangle retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 81 years old.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Bennett was known for his work on the molecular structure and dynamic behavior of membranes and for advancing methods for the structural analysis of cells and tissues. He also contributed to the use of the electron microscope in the field of biology.
        His medical career as a teacher and researcher took him to Harvard University, the University of Washington Medical School and the University of Chicago Medical School. He retired in 1980 from Chapel Hill as the Sarah Graham Kenan Professor of Biological and Medical Sciences. Son of Missionaries
        Henry Stanley Bennett was born in Tottori, Japan, the son of missionary parents. A graduate of Oberlin College, he received his M.D. in 1936 from Harvard University, where he then taught anatomy and pharmacology.
        As a doctor in the Marines in World War II, Dr. Bennett saw combat on Guam and Okinawa. Serving in intelligence, he used his knowledge of Japanese to translate medical documents and to help interrogate prisoners.
        After the war, he briefly joined the Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty before moving to the University of Washington in 1948 to head its medical school's anatomy department. During his next stay in Chicago, from 1961 to 1969, he was dean of the Division of Biological Sciences and directed the newly established Laboratories for Cell Biology.
        Dr. Bennett, a member of numerous scientific bodies, served on advisory panels in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations.
        Dr. Bennett is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Alice Roosa; three daughters, Edith P. Page of Arlington, Va., Anna B. McNaught of Baltimore, and Patience B. Berkman of Boston; a son, Henry J. Bennett of Evanston, Ill.; three sisters, Sara B. Campbell of Tulsa, Okla., Anna B. Brown of Westtown, Pa., and Mary B. Clark of Philadelphia; and 12 grandchildren.
      