
        Dr. William Maxwell McCord, an author on social and urban issues and a sociology professor at City College of New York, died on Monday at Yale University Health Services Center in New Haven. He was 61 years old and lived in Guilford, Conn.
        His family said yesterday that he had died of injuries sustained in a car crash in Guilford on July 9.
        Dr. McCord, a native of St. Louis, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Stanford University and earned a doctorate in social science at Harvard in 1955. That year he began his teaching career as a Harvard instructor in social psychology. He returned to Stanford to join the sociology department in 1958 and gained tenure at the age of 28.
        He spent six years teaching at Rice University in Houston and Syracuse University before moving to City College in 1971. He served as sociology department chairman for 10 years, until 1983, and lectured widely overseas at universities from Dublin to Cairo to Singapore.
        Dr. McCord was a co-author of books and monographs on delinquency and crime and later ranged over economic development, international politics and urban affairs. His credits grew to 17 books and nearly 100 articles.
        Among his works were "The Springtime of Freedom: Evolution of Developing Societies" (Oxford University Press, 1965), "Mississippi: The Long, Hot Summer" (W. W. Norton, 1965), and, more recently, "Paths to Progress" (Norton, 1986), written with his wife, Arline McCord. Researching the Mississippi book, Dr. McCord joined the Freedom Riders in their drive against racial segregation.
        In addition to his wife, the former Arline Fujii, Dr. McCord is survived by five sons, Geoffrey, of Durham, N.C., Robert, of Narberth, Pa., Maxwell, of White Plains, and William of Guilford; a daughter, Elinor Mary McCord, also of Guilford; a stepdaughter, Dr. Karen Sakuma of Seattle; two stepsons, Theodore Sakuma of Orangeburg, N.Y., and Michael Sakuma, of Stony Brook, L.I., and six grandchildren.
      