
        Paul Gapp, the Pulitzer Prizewinning architecture critic for The Chicago Tribune, died on July 30 at Northwest Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 64 years old and lived in Chicago.
        He died of lung cancer complicated by emphysema, his office said.
        Mr. Gapp was born in Cleveland in 1928. He began his career in journalism with The Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch after graduating from Ohio University in 1950. Six years later, he joined The Chicago Daily News, where he worked as a reporter, editorial writer and features editor. In 1972, Mr. Gapp joined The Chicago Tribune as assistant city editor for urban affairs. He was appointed architecture critic in 1974 and won the Pulitzer Prize for criticism in 1979.
        Mr. Gapp's interest in architecture grew out of his love for Chicago, which he once described as "the last of the great American cities, a city of great elegance and great charm." His writings on architecture helped readers grasp the role of buildings in Chicago's social and political life.
        But it was a building planned for New York City that sparked the most widely discussed column of Mr. Gapp's career. In 1984, he attacked a proposal by the developer Donald Trump to build a 150-story skyscraper off the southern tip of Manhattan. Calling the scheme "Guinness Book of World Records architecture," Mr. Gapp wrote that it was "one of the silliest things anyone could inflict on New York or any other city." Mr. Trump responded with a $500 million suit against Mr. Gapp and the Tribune Company, contending that Mr. Gapp's criticism had "virtually torpedoed" his plan to build the world's tallest building. The case was dismissed in Federal District Court in 1985.
        Before joining The Tribune, Mr. Gapp directed the urban journalism fellowship program at the University of Chicago for three years. He was an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Jo; a son, Steve; a daughter, Leslie Ann, and three grandchildren.
      