
        Frantisek Cardinal Tomasek, who crowned three decades of resolute but cautious leadership of the Roman Catholic Church in Czechoslovakia by publicly encouraging the "Velvet Revolution," died yesterday. He was 93 years old.
        Cardinal Tomasek died of heart failure complicated by pneumonia, the state news agency reported.
        "We are with you," the Cardinal declared on Nov. 21, 1989, to 150,000 people demonstrating in Prague. He also urged the demonstrators, in a statement read to them by a priest, to "continue following the path of non-violence." Saying Mass on TV
        Four days later, after the Communist Party shuffled its leadership in an effort to retain power, Cardinal Tomasek spoke at the country's first televised Mass, celebrating the canonization of St. Agnes of Bohemia weeks earlier in Rome. "In this historic moment in the fight for truth and justice," he told 250,000 worshipers, "I and the Catholic Church are on the side of the people."
        The worshipers then moved from St. Vitus Cathedral to join hundreds of thousands of others in a vast anti-Government demonstration on the bank of the Vltava River.
        Eleven months earlier, Cardinal Tomasek had defended anti-Government demonstrators who were attacked by the police. "The justified yearning of citizens to live in a free environment, something which has become a matter of course in the 20th century, cannot be stifled by crude violence," he told the Communist Government.
        Cardinal Tomasek was born on June 30, 1899, into a peasant family in the town of Studenka, in northern Moravia, near the Polish border. A Careful Navigator
        For much of his career, he pursued a delicate line between confrontation and compromise with one of the most militantly atheistic Communist governments in Eastern Europe.
        In the 1950's the Government had carried out mass jailings and deportations of priests, dispersed thousands of nuns, closed all but two of the nation's seminaries, seized monasteries and convents and banned religious education.
        For four decades, the Government continued to control church finances and publications, subject candidates for the priesthood to clearance by the secret police and block the appointment of bishops. Cardinal Tomasek, who was secretly appointed Bishop of Olomouc in 1949, was himself interned in a labor camp from 1951 to 1954.
        After attending the Second Vatican Council from 1962 to 1965, the only bishop from Czechoslovakia allowed to do so, he was appointed apostolic administrator for Prague, taking over the duties of Josef Cardinal Beran.  Alert to Suppression
        Cardinal Beran had been forced from his post as Archbishop of Prague in 1949. In 1965, after years of confinement in monasteries, he was exiled to Rome, where he received his red hat as a cardinal.
        The Rev. Michael J. Lavelle, the president of John Carroll University, near Cleveland, described a 1966 visit to Bishop Tomasek in the Cardinal's palace at Hradcany Castle, the seat of the Government. The bishop first dismissed his secretary, whom he did not trust. Then, he pointed to the chandelier and said, "This is the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, and speech here is free" -- all the time shaking his head no.
        During the Prague Spring, the 1968 period of liberalization, he appealed for a restoration of religious liberty and traveled to Rome to ease negotiations between the Vatican and Czechoslovakia.
        Hopes for change were crushed by the Soviet-led invasion in August 1968, and no successor as Archbishop of Prague was named when Cardinal Beran died in 1969 because the Vatican feared immediate persecution. Not until 1977 did Pope Paul VI announce that in May 1976 he had secretly elevated Bishop Tomasek to cardinal, and not until 1978 was the new cardinal named Archbishop of Prague and Primate of Czechoslovakia.  State Diminished Stature
        At 78, he was already past the age when most bishops retire. Despite his impressive palace, the Cardinal was allowed a monthly stipend less than the wages of a typical laborer, and virtually no staff. He often answered the phone himself.
        With the church trying to wring concessions from the Government, Cardinal Tomasek avoided clashes with political authorities and even criticized Catholic participation in Charter 77, the revitalized human rights campaign that began in 1977.
        His caution dismayed dissident Catholic intellectuals and elicited complaints from the clandestine church that had formed around priests forbidden by the Government to carry out their duties publicly.
        This disaffection faded after Cardinal Tomasek, encouraged by John Paul II, a fellow Slav elected Pope in 1978, seemed to take a firmer stand toward the Government, condemning, for instance, a Government-controlled group of priests who were viewed as police informers.  'A Symbol of Courage'
        In 1988, the Cardinal threw his authority behind a petition demanding freedom of religion. In a development later seen as contributing to the peaceful ouster of the Communist Government, which came to be known as the Velvet Revolution, the petition gained hundreds of thousands of signatures after Cardinal Tomasek issued a letter of support.
        On the Cardinal's 90th birthday, less than six months before Communist rule was ended, he was praised as "a symbol of confidence, courage and the authentic defense of religious rights" by the Rev. Vaclav Maly, a leader of Charter 77.
        Cardinal Tomasek was the church's oldest active archbishop when he retired on March 27, 1991. In June he was hospitalized after several weeks of illness. When his condition deteriorated last month, Reuters reported today, Cardinal Tomasek said he did not wish to be hospitalized again.
      