
        Ralph Cooper, the originator and master of ceremonies of Amateur Night at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, died on Tuesday at his home in Harlem. His age was not known, but his associates at the theater said they believed that he was in his mid- to late 80's.
        He died of cancer, said Percy Sutton, a friend and business associate.
        Since 1935 when he became the Apollo's master of ceremonies, Mr. Cooper introduced a myriad of performers who would become household names. Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan were among those who achieved stardom after their triumphant appearances at the theater. Others who appeared there included Gladys Knight and the Pips, James Brown, Stevie Wonder, Aretha Franklin and Diana Ross. Michael Jackson was 9 years old when he first performed at the Apollo with his brothers. Beginnings of a Tradition
        Mr. Cooper was born in New York City. He began his career as a dancer in small downtown clubs near New York University, which he attended for a semester. He eventually became involved in the business side of music, and in 1935 established the Apollo's Amateur Night competition, a Wednesday night tradition that became known around the world. The Apollo closed in the 1970's, but the contest was resurrected in 1985 after the theater was renovated, with Mr. Cooper once again serving as master of ceremonies. His son, Ralph Cooper 2d, took over the show after his father recently became ill.
        Mr. Cooper, who was also an actor, choreographed the Shirley Temple film "Poor Little Rich Girl," and appeared in films with Lena Horne and Duke Ellington. He was also the author of 10 screenplays and a co-author of "Amateur Night at the Apollo" (HarperCollins, 1990).
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, both of Manhattan; a daughter, Lisa Cooper-Turner; a grandson, Wayne Turner, and a granddaughter, Elise Turner, all of Kenner, La.
        A funeral service is to be held at 6 P.M. on Monday at the Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street.
      