
        Dr. William W. Watson, a former chairman of the physics department at Yale University who helped develop the atomic bomb, died on Monday in Hamden, Conn. He was 92 years old.
        The cause of death was not yet known, said his daughter, Ruth Martin, of New Haven.
        During World War II, Dr. Watson took a leave from Yale after he was appointed by the Secretary of War to be division director of the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago, where scientists were developing the atomic bomb. A year later he became the American representative to the Canadian-British atomic energy research project in Montreal, where atomic bomb research was scheduled to move if the war had continued. Dr. Watson returned to Yale in September 1945, one month after the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.
        William Weldon Watson was born in Eveleth, Minn., on Sept. 14, 1899, and was reared in La Grange, Ill. He received bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Chicago. He became a member of its faculty in 1924 and joined the faculty at Yale in 1929. Research on Isotopes
        Dr. Watson's early research dealt with the structures and spectra of molecules. Beginning in 1940 and continuing beyond his retirement from Yale in 1968, Dr. Watson studied processes for separating differing forms, or isotopes, of atoms, an area central to the development of the atomic bomb. By 1943, he was doing research at Yale for the atomic bomb project.
        Dr. Watson was chairman of Yale's physics department from 1940 to 1961. In this period, the university built particle accelerators that put it at the forefront of nuclear technology and research.
        In 1946, Dr. Watson became one of five trustees of the Government-sponsored laboratory for nuclear physics research on Long Island, now the Brookhaven National Laboratory.
        Early in the 1950's, Dr. Watson was one of the first scientists to publicly discuss harnessing nuclear energy for projects like nuclear-powered aircraft and space satellites.
        In that time, Dr. Watson focused his research on isotope separation, especially isotopes of the gases helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon and radon, which are called noble gases because of their high resistance to chemical reaction. His research facilitated the study of nuclear variants of these elements, enabling scientists to study parts of the isotopes, including the nuclear properties.
        Dr. Watson is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Wells; two daughters, Mrs. Martin and Alice Houston of Stonington, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      