
        Jon Schueler, a painter of large-scale abstractions known for their strong evocations of nature, died yesterday at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Mallaig, Scotland.
        The cause of death was pneumonia complicated by Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Magda Salvesen, an art historian.
        A second-generation Abstract Expressionist, Mr. Schueler was a member of a generation of artists that included Joan Mitchell and James Brooks and that often bent the rigorously abstract approaches of the first generation to more descriptive ends. Just as Ms. Mitchell's thatches of line, derived from Jackson Pollock, often suggested fields of grass, Mr. Schueler's loose patches of color, partly influenced by Clyfford Still (who was his teacher), could evoke broad expanses of islands, clouds and water. His simplified, nearly abstract imagery also showed the influence of Milton Avery.
        Mr. Schueler was born in Milwaukee on Sept. 12, 1916. He attended the University of Wisconsin, obtaining a B.A.  in English literature and an M.A. in economics. He served in World War II as an Army pilot, taking up the study of art only in the late 1940's, when the G.I. Bill enabled him to return to school. He attended the California School of Fine Arts (now called the San Francisco Art Institute), where Still was a dominant force as a teacher, and moved to New York in 1951.  Exhibitions in New York
        His first one-man show was at the Stable Gallery in New York in 1954, followed by exhibitions at the Leo Castelli Gallery in 1957 and 1959. His work was the subject of a small exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1975. Throughout his career, he also exhibited frequently in Scotland, where he purchased a house in the small fishing village of Mallaig on the Sound of Sleat in 1957. He painted there several months each year, and lived there full-time from 1970 until 1975.
        Mr. Schueler's work is represented in several public collections, including those at the Whitney, the Cleveland Museum of Art and the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art in Edinburgh.
        Mr. Schueler's first four marriages ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. Salvesen, he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Jamie Walker of Belmont, Calif. and Joya Konde of Tehachapi, Calif.; a brother, Robert Schueler of Canoga Park, Calif.; a sister, Paula Hiller of Pacific Palisades, Calif.; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 15, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Aug. 6 about the abstract artist Jon Schueler omitted the gallery that has represented him since 1985. It is the Katharina Rich Perlow Gallery in SoHo, which held one-man exhibitions of his work in 1986, 1987, 1989 and 1991.
      