
        Paul F. Reilly, a New York lawyer who was a prosecutor under District Attorneys Thomas E. Dewey and Frank S. Hogan, died on Friday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was was 81 years old and lived in Upper Nyack, N.Y.
        He died of cancer, the Hannemann Funeral Home in Nyack reported.
        Mr. Reilly, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Fordham University and Fordham Law School and was appointed a deputy assistant district attorney by Mr. Dewey the day after Mr. Reilly's admission to the bar in March 1938. Mr. Dewey had been appointed a special prosecutor to investigate crime and official corruption in New York City in 1935 and combed the law schools for his aides. Mr. Dewey was elected District Attorney in Manhattan in 1937.
        Mr. Reilly began as a researcher in the indictment bureau. From 1939 to 1942, he was assigned to prosecute homicide cases. Served in Naval Intelligence
        In 1942, Mr. Dewey, a Republican, became Governor of New York, Mr. Hogan became Mr. Dewey's legendary Democratic successor as District Attorney, and Mr. Reilly entered the United States Navy. He studied Japanese, passed a naval intelligence course at Princeton University and joined the Office of Naval Intelligence. Later he served in the South Pacific.
        In 1946, he returned to the Manhattan District Attorney's office, where Mr. Hogan put him in charge of the wide range of cases passing through what was then Felony Court. For the next five years he screened thousands of cases under his jurisdiction, prosecuting many of them himself. On his last day in court, Chief Magistrate John M. Murtagh praised him as a lawyer who had "won the respect and admiration of the bar and the bench by his outstanding service."
        Mr. Reilly resigned in 1951 to accept Governor Dewey's offer to serve as associate general counsel of the State Labor Relations Board. After that, he went into private practice on lower Broadway in Manhattan.
        He is survived by a son, Henry H. Rossbacher of Los Angeles; a brother, John J., of Upper Nyack, a retired Federal District Court judge, and three grandchildren.
      