
        Randall M. Klose, a philanthropist who raised millions of dollars for causes concerning gay rights and AIDS, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 37 years old.
        The Human Rights Campaign Fund, a national political organization for gay rights and AIDS issues, said Mr. Klose had died of AIDS. He had been the fund's co-chairman for the last two years and on its board since 1987.
        Mr. Klose said he had been inspired by an essay called "1,112 and Counting" by Larry Kramer, a leading gay-rights advocate, in The New York Native in 1983. In that essay, a call to action against the rising AIDS roll, Mr. Kramer said he wanted to know why wealthy homosexuals were not responding to the crisis. Later, Mr. Klose said, "I read the article and said to myself, 'Here I am.' "
        His role in pressing for the passage of the 1988 Federal AIDS Research and Information Act was praised by its two chief Senate co-sponsors, Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Lowell P. Weicker Jr., Republican of Connecticut at the time. Mr. Weicker, now Governor of Connecticut, said Mr. Klose had helped win passage of the bill, which coordinated the Government's AIDS research. The bill was the first Federal AIDS law.
        Mr. Klose contributed more than $1 million to organizations supporting gay rights and AIDS services. His work as a fund raiser produced many millions more from other donors, said Gregory King, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign Fund.
        During Mr. Klose's tenure on the fund's board, its budget grew from $1 million to $5 million. He also served on the board of the Gay and Lesbian Community Services Center of Los Angeles and was active in the Triangle Institute, an educational gay organization.
        Last year he joined a delegation of Americans on a trip by the International Lesbian and Gay Human Rights Commission to the former Soviet Union to help foster gay rights there.
        Mr. Klose was born in Texas; early in his career he lived in Manhattan and Beverly Hills, Calif., where he was a real estate developer. He inherited his wealth from his father, Rolland Klose, who owned the state Dairy Queen franchise, with 800 outlets, for 35 years.
        Mr. Klose is survived by his companion, Ken Aldrich; a sister, Carol Lee Klose, and a brother, Gary Klose, both of San Antonio, Tex.
      