
        W. Lincoln Hawkins, a noted chemist, inventor and leader in efforts to foster scientific careers for other blacks, died on Thursday at his home in San Marcos, Calif., near San Diego. He was 81 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Only two months ago Dr. Hawkins received from President Bush the National Medal of Technology, both for his scientific achievements and for his efforts on behalf of minority-group students.
        Dr. Hawkins, the first black hired for the technical staff of A.T.&T.'s Bell Laboratories, held 18 patents from the United States and 129 from foreign countries. Most involved the conservation and reclamation of materials for communications equipment. Encouraged Black Students
        His most important inventions, in the late 1940's, were additives that gave long life to plastic coatings for shielding wire cables. Before then, the wires had been coated with lead, which was expensive, heavy and unwieldy. He and his co-inventor, Vincent Lanza, found anti-oxidizing agents that gave plastic, previously subject to rapid deterioration, a useful life span of 70 years.
        The new coatings saved billions of dollars and enabled the expansion of telephone service around the world.
        Dr. Hawkins was the first chairman of the American Chemical Society's project to promote chemistry among minority students, was active in the Urban League's black executive program and helped expand the science programs of predominantly black colleges.
        He was the chairman of Montclair State College in 1973 when it named as president David W. D. Dixon, the first black president at a four-year college in New Jersey.
        His work won honors from the American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Chemists, the National Organization of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers, the National Technical Association, the Society of Plastics Engineers and the Black Professional Engineers. He published 55 scientific papers and three books. Attended Segregated Schools
        Dr. Hawkins, born in Washington, was a graduate of segregated public schools there and of Howard University. He earned a master's degree in chemical engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a doctorate in chemistry from McGill University.
        He taught briefly at McGill and did research at Columbia University before joining Bell in 1942. In World War II he worked on synthetic substitutes for rubber, the supply of which was under enemy control.
        After retiring in 1976 as the director of Bell's chemical research laboratory, he continued as a consultant to Bell on minority affairs.
        Surviving are his wife of 54 years, the former Lilyan Bobo; two sons, W. Gordon Hawkins of San Marcos and Philip Hawkins of Los Angeles; a brother, David Brown of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      