
        Philip Hulitar, a noted women's fashion designer in the 1950's, a buildings preservationist and a patron of the arts, died yesterday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 87 years old.
        He died of pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Hulitar was noted for his designs of sophisticated cocktail dresses and evening gowns. His work was featured in the United States collection shown at the World's Fair in Brussels in 1958.
        "The star of a gifted designer has risen recently on the fashion horizon," The New York Times reported after he opened his own firm in 1949.
        Previously Mr. Hulitar worked 18 years for Bergdorf Goodman in Manhattan as a sales executive, designer and head of the women's dress division. Robert Kennedy's Landlord
        Upon retiring from fashion in 1964, he played a coincidental role in national political history by renting his large home in Glen Cove, L.I., to Robert F. Kennedy, who was resigning as United States Attorney General and establishing New York residency to run for the Senate.
        Moving to Florida, Mr. Hulitar began restoring several great houses in Palm Beach. He also painted and sculpted and exhibited his works in galleries.
        He became the first president of the Palm Beach Landmarks Commission and he founded a sculpture garden and was its chief benefactor. He also served as vice president of the Society of the Four Arts and of the Hospice Guild of the Palm Beaches. Son of Hungarian Diplomat
        Mr. Hulitar was born in Athens, where his father was stationed as a Hungarian diplomat, and was educated in France and Italy. He developed his interest in design while accompanying his mother, a member of Italian nobility, to Paris fashion shows. On those trips he drew his first sketches.
        In the aftermath of World War I, his family moved to the United States. After initially working as a stocks salesman on Wall Street, he soon turned to the fashion industry.
        A brief first marriage, to Branislava Lamprecht, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Mary Gerstenberg; two daughters, Stefani Warburton and Renee Carite; a sister, Helen Pinchen of West Palm Beach, and three grandchildren.
      