
        Francisco Fernandez-Ordonez, who helped remold Spain's image in the post-Franco era and served as Foreign Minister from 1985 until June, died today at his home in Madrid. He was 62 years old.
        He died of cancer of the colon and liver, according to his doctor, Carlos Sanz. His body lay in state this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry in Madrid.
        Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez, who used the nickname Paco, helped reorient Spain's business and political goals during the transition to democracy after the death of the dictator Franco in 1975. He oversaw Spain's integration into the European Community and NATO in the mid-1980's.
        Born on June 22, 1930, in Madrid, Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez studied at Harvard in the United States and earned a law degree at the University of Madrid. He began his career as a tax inspector and moved to the Finance Ministry in 1969.
        He held civil service posts in the Franco dictatorship, heading the Government-run National Institute of Industry, but soon joined the growing democratic opposition to Franco's rule and took part in talks aimed at restoring democracy after Franco'sdeath.
        As Finance Minister from 1977 to 1979 in the centrist Government of Prime Minister Adolfo Suarez, Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez was responsible for passage of controversial income-tax reforms, introducing graduated taxation. The number of taxpayers rose from 1.5 million people in 1977 to more than 12 million over the years.
        In 1979 he was appointed Justice Minister in the centrist Government of Leopoldo Calvo Sotelo, where he drew bitter criticism from conservative politicians for the legalization of divorce in 1981. The divorce law was the harbinger of separation of church and state in Spain.
        He was named chairman of Spain's state-controlled export-financing bank, Banco Exterior, in 1983 and was appointed Foreign Minister in 1985, two years after Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez and the Socialists came to power.
        Considered more pro-American than his predecessor, Fernando Moran, Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez campaigned for NATO membership, a step that Spanish voters approved in a referendum. He guided the country to membership in the European Community in 1986 and continued to campaign for greater European integration, championing the Maastricht treaty on political and economic union, which is now awaiting ratification by the 12 community nations.
        Attending his first meeting of European Community foreign ministers in the mid-1980's, Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez was reported to have said, "Just call me Paco," a phrase that became his trademark introduction on policy missions throughout the world.
        Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez was widely credited in his country for having placed Spain on the map of modern international politics. He helped pave the way for restoration of diplomatic ties with Israel in 1986 and gave the Palestine Liberation Organization mission in Madrid what is described by some envoys as de facto diplomatic status.
        He was perhaps most proud of Spain's role as host in the first round of Middle East peace talks in Madrid last October.
        He said he had circled the world 150 times as a diplomat, although his illness, which he never publicly acknowledged, began to take its toll this year. After a final trip in May to Chile and Argentina, Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez canceled all appointments, citing exhaustion. Mr. Gonzalez accepted his resignation on June 22, Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez's 62d birthday.
        King Juan Carlos described Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez today as "an exemplary minister" and one of Spain's "finest statesmen."
        Mr. Fernandez-Ordonez is survived by his wife, Mari Paz Garcia Mayo.
      