
        Spencer Byard, a lawyer long active in the affairs of two centuries-old Manhattan institutions, the New York Society Library and Trinity Church, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 84 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He died of complications from cancer of the prostate, said his son, Paul Spencer Byard of Manhattan.
        Mr. Byard was a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Carter, Ledyard & Milburn from 1960 to 1982 and then worked for the firm part time until this summer.
        From 1979 to 1985, he was chairman of the library, an independent nonprofit institution, which was the first public library in New York when it was founded in 1754. He oversaw the latest renovation of its five-story building, at 53 East 79th Street, which houses 200,000 books. He was a trustee of the library from 1952 until his death and was its secretary from 1953 to 1979. Legal Role With Church
        From 1961 until 1991, he was in charge of legal matters for the extensive real-estate holdings of Trinity Church, the Episcopal church on Broadway opposite the intersection with Wall Street. The parish came into existence in 1697 and received a grant of farmland -- lying west of Broadway, from Fulton to Christopher Streets -- from Queen Anne in 1705. It still owns part of the land.
        In 1969, the Rev. C. Stanley Lowell, co-author of the book "The Churches, Their Riches, Revenues and Immunities," said Trinity was "probably the richest parish in the United States."
        Matters that Mr. Byard handled for the church included leases and warding off claims by people, said to be descendants of old New York families, to own part of its real estate. A Navy Officer
        Mr. Byard was born and raised on the Upper East Side and graduated from Princeton in 1929 and from Columbia Law School in 1932. He went on to serve as law secretary to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, and was a Navy officer in World War II. He also practiced law with the Manhattan-based firm of Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland & Kiendl.
        He was formerly the president and a trustee of the William Mattheus Sullivan Musical Foundation, a trustee of International House and an elder of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Margaret Mather Byard; a daughter, Margaret Byard Stearns of Kent, Conn.; a sister, Wynne Fooshee of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      