
        Samuel A. Hausman, a textile industrialist, philanthropist and friend of four New York governors, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Hausman, who came to the United States from Austria as a child, started in the textile industry at the age of 13 and eventually ran his family's business, M. Hausman & Son. After the company merged with Belding Heminway, a maker of fabric and sewing notions, he became its chairman.
        The donor of millions of dollars to charities, Mr. Hausman was a leader in civil rights and Jewish causes. He headed the boards of the United Jewish Appeal, Beth Israel Medical Center, the International League for the Repatriation of Russian Jews and the advisory council to the first New York State Commission on Human Rights.
        Among his friends in high office were Governors Herbert H. Lehman, Thomas E. Dewey, Nelson A. Rockefeller and Malcolm W. Wilson, State Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz, Senator Jacob K. Javits and Mayor James J. Walker. He headed campaign committees for Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard M. Nixon. Nursing-Home Scandal
        In the 1970's, Mr. Hausman became a central figure in the scandals involving Rabbi Bernard Bergman, a nursing-home operator who was eventually convicted of Medicaid and tax fraud, sentenced to prison and fined $2.5 million.
        Mr. Hausman was not prosecuted. But investigations disclosed that he had arranged and attended meetings from 1971 through 1974 in the Governor's office with high state officials. In those meetings, Mr. Bergman appealed unfavorable rulings in disputes over reimbursements at four nursing homes and the licensing of a fifth. Mr. Bergman won some concessions.
        Attending the meetings were Governor Rockefeller's top assistant, Secretary Robert Douglass; Mr. Douglass's successor, T. Norman Hurd; Governor Wilson, who succeeded Mr. Rockefeller in December 1973 and who retained Mr. Hurd, and officials of state regulatory agencies.
        In 1976, a state commission concluded that Mr. Hausman was Mr. Bergman's "major source of strength" in gaining access to and special treatment from officials. Mr. Hausman's influence derived from his role as Mr. Rockefeller's "eyes and ears to the Jewish community," the report said. It said Mr. Hausman "sought to control access to the executive chamber" on issues that could sway "this largely Democratic group of voters to the advantage of the Rockefeller and Wilson administrations."
        Mr. Hausman testified that Mr. Bergman "duped and abused me." He said he was persuaded to help Mr. Bergman after Mr. Bergman complained that state officials were discriminating against his nursing homes because he was Jewish. Stockroom Clerk
        Mr. Hausman immigrated in 1905. Although his family had its own company, his father encouraged him to learn the trade elsewhere. So, at 13, he started as a stockroom clerk for a dressmaker and then worked for a manufacturer of cotton cloth.
        His first stint as an executive came at the age of 15, when his father suffered a heart attack and asked him to take the helm temporarily. Twenty years later, in 1932, he became the permanent head of the Hausman firm. In 1960, it merged with Belding, and he became chairman in 1963.
        In the founding of modern Israel, Mr. Hausman helped consolidate the efforts of the Joint Distribution Committee and the United Palestine Appeal. He was an officer of the American Jewish Committee and the American Jewish Conference on Soviet Jewry and a trustee of Yeshiva College in New York for 60 years. And he headed American organizations supporting Israel's Hebrew University, Technion and Weitzman Institute.
        In 1972, he accompanied Governor Rockefeller to Israel in a trip supporting President Richard M. Nixon's re-election and in 1973 helped persuade the President to approve military planes for Israel.
        Mr. Hausman served on the New York State Commission Against Discrimination, Francis Cardinal Spellman's first Laity Committee and the board of the State University of New York.
        He is survived by his wife of more than 67 years, the former Vera Kuttler; a son, Bruce, of Manhattan; two daughters, Alice Davidson, of Manhattan, and Merna Miller, of Great Neck, L.I.; two brothers, Leo and Jack, both of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 18, 1992, Tuesday
        An obituary on Friday about Samuel A. Hausman, an industrialist and a philanthropist, omitted the name of a survivor. She is his sister, Anne Herrmann of Fairfield, Conn.
      