
        Raymond R. Corbett, one of New York's most influential labor leaders who headed the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. for 22 years, died on Monday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        An avid golfer, he died after suffering a heart attack as he played in a tournament at the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, said Victor Stewart, editor of the newsletter of the iron workers union in New York City.
        Mr. Corbett had been an elected official in that union since 1945. At the time of his death he was business manager of Iron Workers Local 40, covering Manhattan, Staten Island and Westchester, as well as chairman of the board of trustees of the pension, health, vacation and annuity funds for Locals 40, 361 and 417. Local 361 represents members in Brooklyn and 417 those in Newburgh.
        A native of Camden, N.J., Mr. Corbett attended parochial school there. He started working in 1938 as a journeyman and member of Local 40, and his first job was at the North Beach Airport, later to become known as La Guardia. During World War II, he worked in the Brooklyn shipyards. Iron Workers' Business Agent
        In 1945 Mr. Corbett was elected a Local 40 vice president, and within a year he reached the same position in the New York City Central Labor Council. In 1950 he became business agent -- a title later changed to business manager -- of the Iron Workers International Union.
        The New York State Federation of Labor elected him secretary in 1957. The following year he became the state legislative chairman for the organization formed by the merger with the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
        In 1962, Mr. Corbett was elected president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O., the country's largest state labor organization, representing 2.5 million men and women. He held the post until 1984 when, sensing opposition to yet another re-election bid, he resigned.
        His successor, Edward J. Cleary, said yesterday that the high percentage of the work force represented by the federation -- 32.6 percent -- reflected Mr. Corbett's long leadership and his "constructive concern for the working men and women of our state." On Cornell Board
        Mr. Corbett served as an adviser to Governors Nelson A. Rockefeller, Malcolm Wilson, Hugh L. Carey and Mario M. Cuomo, of whose candidacy he was an early supporter. He also sat on the board of trustees of Cornell University, among others.
        Among Mohawk Indians, heavily represented in his trade, he was known as Big Bear, honorary chief of the Caughnawaga reservation in Quebec.
        Mr. Corbett, twice widowed, is survived by four daughters, Eleanor Corbett of Greenwood Lake, N.Y., Sheila Sabbagh of Staten Island, Carol Corbett-Finamore of Brooklyn and Helene Schwartz of Brooklyn; two sons, Raymond (Tim) Corbett of Manhattan and John Corbett of Brooklyn; two brothers, James Corbett of Marlboro, N.J., and Robert Corbett of Brooklyn; his fiancee, Theresa Hammer of Brooklyn; 26 grandchildren and 35 great-grandchildren.
      