
        Leonard Burkat, a music writer whose program notes were used by many orchestras and ensembles around the world, died on Sunday at his home in Danbury, Conn. He was 73 years old.
        His son, Howard Burkat, said he died of Paget's disease, a degenerative bone disorder.
        Mr. Burkat was born in Boston in 1919 and was educated at Harvard and Columbia Universities. His first job was as a librarian in the music division of the Boston Public Library, where he worked for a decade beginning in 1937. He soon became a music critic on the side, writing reviews for The Boston Globe and The Boston Evening Transcript from 1938 to 1944.
        In 1946, he became the librarian of the Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. Later he became the administrative director of the Tanglewood Music Center, a post he held until 1963.
        Early on at Tanglewood, Mr. Burkat was hired by Serge Koussevitzky, the music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, as a librarian. In 1953, he became an assistant to Koussevitzky's successor, Charles Munch. He translated Munch's memoir, "I Am a Conductor," from the French and wrote a long introduction to it in 1965. Move to Columbia Records
        In 1963, Mr. Burkat was hired by Columbia Records, first to oversee the classical programming for its Masterworks and Epic labels as well as its Broadway, film and spoken-word recordings, and later to supervise its promotion department.
        When he retired as a vice president of CBS in 1973, Mr. Burkat started the Leonard Burkat Program Note Service, which supplied annotations to the Academy of St. Martin-in-the-Fields; Lincoln Center; the Waterloo, Grant Park, Mostly Mozart and Berkshire Choral festivals; the Moscow Virtuosi; the Scottish Chamber Orchestra, and the New York Philharmonic, among hundreds of ensembles.
        All told, Mr. Burkat wrote program notes for nearly 15,000 works. He also published a bibliographical study of early editions of the Haydn symphonies and a study of Olivier Messiaen's compositional style.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Marion; two daughters, Susan Burkat Trubey of Royal Oak, Mich., and Caroline B. Hall of Danbury, and six grandchildren.
      