
        Richard B. Black, a retired rear admiral in the Naval Reserve who assisted Rear Adm. Richard E. Byrd in his explorations of Antarctica, died on Tuesday at the Fernwood Nursing Home in Bethesda, Md. He was 90 years old.
        Admiral Black died of cancer, his family said.
        He was born in Grand Forks, N.D., and trained as a civil engineer at the University of North Dakota. In the 1920's he worked on railroad, mining and other engineering projects in the 1920's.
        From 1933 to 1935 he served in Admiral Byrd's second Antarctic expedition as a civilian in charge of the East Base in Little America, for which he received the Navy's Special Silver Medal. Over the next 30 years he served in four other Antarctic explorations and was an active duty officer for Antarctic planning.
        While working for the Interior Department he was based in Hawaii and in charge of preparing Howland Island for the arrival of Amelia Earhart in her attempt to fly around the world in 1937. He monitored her last messages before she vanished over the Pacific Ocean. Witness to Pearl Harbor
        As a member of the Naval Reserve, he was called to active duty in August 1941 and was stationed at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, when the Japanese attack on that base brought the United States into World War II. During the war he fought in the battles for Tarawa and Saipan and won a Bronze Star.
        After the war Admiral Black worked as a Federal aeronautics official in Hawaii, then did research at Johns Hopkins University. He was a civilian aide in South Korea during the Korean War and later an operations analyst for the Office of Naval Research.
        Admiral Black, who lived in Washington and Woodbridge, Va., retired from the reserve in 1962 and from Government work in 1967.
        His first wife, the former Ruth Slayberg, died in 1932. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Aviza Johnson; two daughters, Debra Jane Black of Washington and Carrie Elizabeth Black of San Francisco; a son, Douglas F. B. Black of Beattyville, Ky., and five grandchildren.
      