
        Felix J. Cuervo, founder and president of the Native New Yorkers Historical Association, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, Queens. He was 73 years old and lived in Richmond Hill, Queens.
        Mr. Cuervo died of cancer, said his son, Robert.
        Mr. Cuervo was a Navy veteran of World War II who was a personnel administrator for several Federal and state agencies from the 1940's to 1983, when he retired.
        A native New Yorker who briefly attended Columbia University and New York University, Mr. Cuervo was fascinated by New York City's varied and complex history. He organized the Native New Yorkers Historical Society in 1962 to conduct walking tours of city neighborhoods and to commemorate the sites or dates of historical events.
        In the late 1960's, Mr. Cuervo was the driving force behind the unsuccessful, somewhat tongue-in-cheek attempt by Mayor John V. Lindsay to get the Philadelphia Museum of Art to return the bronze statue of the goodess Diana that once stood atop the old Madison Square Garden.
        And in 1970 it was Mr. Cuervo who installed a plaque on the outer wall of the 69th Regiment Armory on Lexington Avenue at 26th Street in Manhattan marking it as the the site of the Armory Art Show of 1913, which had a significant impact on art in the 20th century. Organized Joplin Tribute
        In 1974, he organized a tribute at the Queens cemetery gravesite of the American composer Scott Joplin, whose once enormously popular ragime compositions were in the midst of a revival.
        Mr. Cuervo once said his "ambition is to someday see New York City's buildings covered with little plaques, starting in the Battery and working all the way uptown."
        "Then people on Sunday afternoons can walk through the city and realize what great things have taken place in so many of our buildings," he continued. "And they can feel the same excitement that I felt when, as a boy, I used to walk with my father through old New York."
        Mr. Cuervo is survived by his wife, Phyllis; his son, Robert, and two daughters, Donna M. and Judi A., all of Richmond Hill.
      