
        John D. Thompson, an educator whose ideas revolutionized the financing and evaluation of health care and shortened hospital stays, died on Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital in Connecticut. He was 75 years old and lived in New Haven.
        He died of cardiopulmonary arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Thompson had been head of the Division of Health Policy, Resources and Administration at Yale University since 1974. He joined the faculty of Yale in 1956.
        Beginning in 1967, Mr. Thompson and his longtime Yale colleague, Robert B. Fetter, developed a system called diagnosis-related groups, or D.R.G.'s, which divided thousands of ailments and treatments into standard categories. These were then used to calculate and compare costs, lengths of stay and treatment success.
        The system has spread across this country and overseas.
        One result is reduced hospital stays. The old system reimbursed for treatment based on per-diem fees and the number of days the patient stayed, creating a financial incentive to the hospital for long stays. The diagnosis-related groups system issued fixed fees based on average case costs, a practice that encourages hospitals to expedite treatment.
        Average hospital stays in the United States dropped from 11 days in 1981 to 8.5 days in 1991 in surgical cases and from 9.4 days to 7 days in nonsurgical cases.
        The first wide use of the system was in 1983, when the Federal Government adopted it for hospitalized Medicare patients.
        Now New York, New Jersey and Maryland require the system for all insurance payments to hospitals in those states, and Blue Cross also uses it in some other states. The concept has also been applied to nursing homes and some outpatient care.
        Bruce C. Vladeck, president of the United Hospital Fund, a research organization, said Mr. Thompson and Mr. Fetter made a major contribution to health care. He said, "D.R.G.'s are far and away the best mechanism we have" to analyze and manage treatment costs and quality.
        Mr. Thompson and Mr. Fetter's work was honored earlier this year with a $25,000 award from the Baxter Foundation and the Association for University Programs in Health Administration.
        Originally trained as a nurse at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan, Mr. Thompson served there as head psychiatric nurse after World War II. Later he was an assistant director at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx.
        He earned a bachelor's degree from City College and a master's degree in hospital administration at Yale. He became director of the hospital administration program at Yale in 1966 and was associate dean of the School of Medicine from 1968 to 1974.
        Mr. Thompson was born in Franklin, Pa., and grew up in Canton, Ohio. In World War II he served in the Navy as a chief warrant officer on the Ranger.
        Surviving are his wife of 40 years, Dr. Andriana Natale; six daughters, Margaret Roberge of Boston, Monica Thompson and Siobhan Thompson, both of New Haven, Dierdre Thompson of Valencia, Spain, Julie Walpole of Cincinnati and Maire Clare Thompson of Ottawa, Ontario; a son, Anthony of Branford, Conn.; a sister, Martha Carrick of Stone Mountain, Ga., and a granddaughter.
      