
        Millicent H. Fenwick, a retired Republican Congresswoman renowned for her political independence and championing of liberal causes, died yesterday at her home in Bernardsville, N.J. She was 82 years old.
        She died of heart failure, her family said.
        "Millicent Fenwick was the Katharine Hepburn of politics," said Charles Millard, a former aide and now a Republican New York City Councilman. "With her dignity and elegance, she could get away with saying things others couldn't."
        Mrs. Fenwick, whose colorful personality inspired cartoon characters, had a varied career, including stints as a fashion model, an author and editor and decades of public service in local, state and Federal elected and appointed posts.
        She was perhaps most widely known for her wit, zest and idiosyncrasies like pipe smoking, a habit she adopted when her physician discouraged her from cigarettes. Tall and patrician, but down-to-earth and pungent, she inspired the Lacey Davenport character in Garry Trudeau's "Doonesbury" cartoons. Watchdog of Helsinki Accords
        On her substantive record, she won the respect of her political peers, sometimes grudgingly, for her advocacy on a wide variety of issues, including civil rights, peace in Vietnam, aid for asbestos victims, help for the poor, prison reform, strip-mining controls, reduction of military programs, urban renewal, campaign spending limits, gun control and restrictions on capital punishment.
        Among Mrs. Fenwick's proudest achievements was being a lead sponsor of the resolution creating the commission to monitor the 1975 Helsinki accords on human rights.
        Her views often placed her at odds with her party's leaders and seemed anomalous for the wealthy district in New Jersey's horse country that she represented. Fighting for bathrooms for migrant workers won her the nickname of Outhouse Millie. Others called her the Bella Abzug of Somerset County, a nod to the outspoken former Congresswoman.
        She so frustrated Representative Wayne Hays, a Democrat of Ohio, that he once threatened to withhold her staff's paychecks "if that woman doesn't sit down and keep quiet." Hail and Farewell and Oink
        Although Mrs. Fenwick was strong willed, she often charmed her ideological adversaries.
        In a debate over equal rights for women, she once recalled, a male legislator said: "I just don't like this amendment. I've always thought of women as kissable, cuddly and smelling good." Her reply was classic Fenwick: "That's the way I feel about men, too. I only hope for your sake that you haven't been disappointed as often as I have."
        When she left the State Assembly, one man kissed her, saying: "We male chauvinist pigs all will miss you, Millicent, because you're a wonderful woman."
        Mrs. Fenwick's political career flourished with age. She first ran and won a seat in the State Legislature at the age of 59 and in Congress at 64. The Congressional primary rival she beat was Thomas H. Kean, later elected Governor.
        Gov. William T. Cahill appointed her as New Jersey's first director of consumer affairs in 1972. Among her efforts were to protect car buyers from deceptive advertising and to require funeral homes to itemize bills in advance. Lost Narrowly to Lautenberg
        Her Congressional tenure ended in 1982, when she ran for the United States Senate and lost narrowly to Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democratic millionaire whose big-spending campaign portrayed her as a doddering eccentric. She refused political-action committee money.
        After her loss, President Ronald Reagan appointed her as the first American envoy to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. She retired from that post in 1987.
        After a heart problem in the 1970's, she had several operations for a pacemaker and a bypass of a leg artery.
        Mrs. Fenwick was born in Manhattan to a prominent family with a tradition of public service and grew up in a 50-room mansion in Bernardsville. Her father, Ogden H. Hammond, was a financier and state legislator. When Mrs. Fenwick was 5, her mother, the former Mary Stevens, drowned when a German submarine sank the liner Lusitania. She was on a mission to Paris to create a hospital for war victims. Scandalized Her Family
        Mrs. Fenwick attended the Foxcroft School in Virginia but left to accompany her father to Spain when he served as the American ambassador under President Calvin Coolidge.
        Although she never received a high school diploma or college degree, she studied philosophy under Bertrand Russell at the New School for Social Research and studied at Columbia University. She was fluent in Italian, French and Spanish.
        As a young woman, she scandalized her family by falling in love with a married businessman, Hugh Fenwick. They later married, but it lasted only several years. Mrs. Fenwick was left with two children and her husband's debts. Refusing money from her family, she scraped by on her own.
        She inherited a fortune when her father died in 1956 but remained frugal, counting her change from coffee, using one lamp to work by and driving a Chevrolet that stood out in a community of luxury automobiles. She placed her assets in a blind trust to avoid political conflicts of interest.
        She modeled briefly for Harper's Bazaar, then worked as a writer and editor at Vogue magazine and compiled "Vogue's Book of Etiquette" (Simon & Schuster, 1948), which sold a million copies.
        Surviving are her son, Hugh Jr. of Bernardsville, 11 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      