
        Alice Woodard Fordyce, a philanthropist whose support of medical research in the last five decades included her involvement in the awarding of one of science's most prestigious prizes, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mrs. Fordyce died of heart failure, her son, James Woodard Fordyce, said.
        For almost 50 years, Mrs. Fordyce and her sister, Mary Woodard Lasker, were the driving forces behind the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, which awarded the Albert Lasker Medical Research Awards.
        The $15,000 awards, given for significant achievement in basic and medical research, have long been considered second in prestige only to the Nobel Prizes. Forty-nine Lasker Award recipients were later awarded the Nobel Prize.
        The foundation and the awards program were founded by Mrs. Fordyce, Mrs. Lasker and her husband, Albert, in 1944 to draw attention to major achievements in basic and clinical medical research and stimulate Federal financing of research. Mr. Lasker died in 1952.
        Mrs. Fordyce served as executive vice president of the foundation and director of the awards program until December 1990. She remained a member of the foundation's board and a consultant to the awards program until her death.
        Mrs. Fordyce, who was born in Watertown, Wis., the daughter of a bank president, graduated from Smith College in 1928 and studied at the Sorbonne and the University of Grenoble in France. The sisters' interest in supporting medical research stemmed from the ear infections that Mary Lasker endured and from both their mother and father's suffering from hypertension.
        Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
        Mrs. Fordyce was also involved with civic activities that included the American Museum in Britain, the Leeds Castle Foundation, Bargemusic and the Port of Entry Program at Queensboro College, which helps Chinese students learn American customs and practices.
        Mrs. Fordyce's husband, A. Grant Fordyce, an architect, whom she married in 1939, died in 1972. She is survived by her sister, Mary Lasker of Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn.; her son, James of Greenwhich, and three grandsons.
      