
        Lewis W. Gillenson, a former president of Dodd, Mead & Company publishers and a prominent figure in book and magazine publishing for 45 years, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and also lived in Ghent, N.Y.
        Mr. Gillenson died of cancer, said his brother, Irwin.
        Mr. Gillenson was president of Dodd, Mead from 1982 until his retirement in 1985. Before that his career included stints as a writer, magazine and book editor.
        In 1977 Mr. Gillenson, who was then publisher of Quest Magazine, founded Everest House, a publishing firm. The company was acquired by Thomas Nelson, Inc., in 1982 and later merged into Dodd, Mead.
        From 1971 to 1977 Mr. Gillenson was president of Thomas Y. Crowell, Inc., which he had joined from Grosset & Dunlap, where he had been vice preisdent and editor in chief since 1966.
        Before that, Mr. Gillenson was editor of Coronet from the late 1950's to 1962, when it ceased publication. At Coronet he published the first major freelance articles by Alex Haley, author of "The Autobiography of Malcolm X" and "Roots." Mr. Gillenson also was an editor of Cosmopolitan and associate editor of Look. As a writer in the 1950's, Mr. Gillenson wrote dozens of articles for popular magazines.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Gillenson earned a bachelor's degree in history from New York University in 1939 and a master's degree in history there in 1940. He served for five years with the United States Army during World War II and for several years directed publication of Yank, the Army's weekly newspaper in the Pacific Theater. He was awarded the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star and was discharged as a major.
        Mr. Gillenson was a member of the Friars Club, the Dutch Treat Club, and the Publisher's Lunch Club.
        Besides his brother, Irwin of Merrick, L.I., he is survived by his wife, Rochelle; his mother, Nellie of Manhattan; two daughters, Wendy of Boston, Mass., and Amy of Syracuse, N.Y.; a son, Joshua of Fair Lawn, N.J.; a sister, Gertrude Brody of White Plains, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 9, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary on Monday about Lewis W. Gillenson referred imprecisely to family members. Rochelle Clayman, who survives, was his second wife; his children, Wendy, Amy and Joshua, are from his first marriage.
      