
        Paul Martin, an enduring Liberal Party politician who for decades served in Canadian Cabinets and represented Ottawa at international gatherings, died on Monday at the Hotel Dieu Hospital in Windsor, Ontario. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Martin, a resident of Windsor, suffered a broken hip in a fall and was recovering from surgery when he died of a heart attack, said Paul Janisse, a funeral director in Windsor.
        A former Health and Welfare Minister, Mr. Martin wrote much of Canada's social legislation. He was a delegate to the League of Nations in the 1930's, a reformer at the United Nations in the 1950's, Canada's External Affairs Secretary in the 1960's and Ambassador to Britain in the 1970's, retiring from that post in 1980. Spanned Eras in the Cabinet
        He served in the Cabinets of four Liberal Party Prime Ministers, from Mackenzie King to Pierre Elliott Trudeau. Twice he sought the Liberal Party leadership, losing to Lester Pearson and to Mr. Trudeau.
        Paul James Joseph Martin was born in Ottawa on June 23, 1903, the oldest of 11 children of Philip Ernest Martin, a laborer of Irish Catholic background, and Lumina Marie Chouinard Martin, a French Canadian.
        Mr. Martin arrived at St. Alexandre College in Ironside, Quebec, with the stiff limbs of a meningitis victim. He got over his affliction but never forgot the encounter with a physical handicap. Much later, as Minister of Health and Social Welfare from 1946 to 1957, he laid the groundwork for a national health-care program, old-age pensions and and disability allowances.  Educated in Four Countries
        He studied, mostly on scholarships, at the University of Toronto, Harvard Law School, Trinity College of Cambridge University and the School of International Studies in Geneva. Back in Canada in the early 1930's, he established a law practice in Windsor, from where he won a seat in Parliament in 1938.
        "I do not deny that I am a politician," he once said. "There is nothing sinister about being a politician. Next to the preaching of the word of God, there is nothing nobler than the art of politics."
        Mr. Martin is survived by his wife, the former Eleanor Adams; a son, Paul E. 2d of Montreal and Ottawa, himself a member of Parliament; a daughter, Mary Anne Bellamy of St. Paul, Minn.; three sisters -- Lucille Martin, Claire Guay and Anita Martin, all of Pembrook, Ontario, and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 19, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about Paul Martin, a former Canadian diplomat, misstated his age in some copies. He was 89.
      