
        Harold Seymour, a one-time bat boy for the Brooklyn Dodgers who turned his childhood passion for baseball into an academic specialty as one of the first recognized historians of the national pastime, died on Saturday in Keene, N.H., where he had lived since 1985. He was 82 years old and suffered from Alzheimer's disease, according to his wife, Dorothy.
        A former college teacher who left academia in 1969 to devote full time to research and writing about baseball, Mr. Seymour was the author of a three-volume history that many regard as the seminal work in establishing baseball as a subject for serious scholarly inquiry.
        Mr. Seymour was among those whose extensive research demolished the myth that Cooperstown, N.Y., was the birthplace of baseball and advanced the now-accepted view that modern-day baseball was developed in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Beginnings of His Passion
        Until the progression of the disease forced him seek care in a nursing home in Keene three months ago, he had been at work, with his wife's assistance, on a fourth volume and had also been serving as a consultant to Ken Burns on the film maker's projected television documentary on the history of baseball.
        Mr. Seymour, who was born in Manhattan in 1910, grew up in Brooklyn. As a child, he served as a Dodger bat boy in the Wilbert Robinson era and in the 1920's, played baseball in high school and coached amateur and semipro teams.
        Although he was coach and captain of the first baseball team at Drew University, Mr. Seymour, who graduated from the university in 1934, did not have the makings of a major league career. He did, however, have a scholarly bent. After working as a teacher at several colleges, he received his doctorate in 1956, when Cornell, which had granted him a master's degree in 1940, accepted what is believed to be the first dissertation devoted to the history of baseball.
        Four years later, an expanded and completely rewritten version of the work was published by Oxford University Press as "Baseball: The Early Years," the first of what became the three-volume history of the sport, also including "Baseball: The Golden Age" (1971) and "Baseball: The People's Game" (1991).
        Like other baseball enthusiasts, Mr. Seymour would presumably have exchanged his entire scholarly career for the honor of batting just once in a World Series game, but he was featured on his own baseball card in a series called "Major League Writers."
        He is survived by his wife.
      