
        Franklin Jerome Lunding, who built a giant food-store chain and who was twice chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, died Thursday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. A former resident of Winnetka, Ill., he was 86 years old and had retired to Naples.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Lunding spent 40 years with the Jewel Tea Company, now the Jewel Food Stores division of American Superstores Inc. He saw it grow into one of the major chains in the nation, with business interests ranging as far as Belgium. He joined the company in 1931, at age 25, as general counsel and secretary. He was named president in 1942 and chairman and chief executive officer in 1954. He retired in 1971.
        "His leadership turned a small, unprofitable group of food stores in Chicago into the sales leader in its market and a merchandising leader in the country," said his successor as chairman, Donald S. Perkin.
        The son of Scandinavian immigrants, Mr. Lunding was born in Hope, N.D. He attended the University of North Dakota and was a 1929 law graduate of George Washington University. While working on the staff of the Federal Trade Commission in New York, he met John M. Hancock, a Lehman Brothers partner and the chairman of Jewel Tea, a small home-delivery retailer in the Chicago area.
        Mr. Lunding joined the company in time to help negotiate Jewel's acquisition of a chain of self-service stores, which he renovated with emphasis on their popular meat departments. As the company prospered, he preached the gospel of profit sharing as a way to reduce labor disputes and raise wages and profits. Jewel had a profit-sharing plan, put in place by Mr. Hancock in 1924, and Mr. Lunding wrote the book "Sharing a Company" (Updegraff Press, 1952), explaining how that plan had helped him rebuild the company.
        In addition, he started a college scholarship program for young part-time workers at Jewel. The United Stockholders of America Inc., a nonprofit group, repeatedly cited him as representing what is best in American management.
        Mr. Lunding was chairman of the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank in the early 1950's and again in the late 1960's. He sat on the boards of various companies and was chairman of the executive committee of Lever Brothers Company from 1950 to 1957. He was a past chairman of the National Association of Food Chains.
        Mr. Lunding is survived by a daughter, Virginia Lunding Coulter of Lake Forest, Ill.; a son, Franklin J. Lunding Jr. of Pebble Beach, Calif.; three sisters, Nell Plummer, also of Naples, Marjorie Bohn of Ojai, Calif., and Lillian Vasey of Honolulu; 11 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      