
        Ralph Manheim, for nearly 50 years a prolific and widely acclaimed English translator of major German and French works, including books by Hitler, Freud, Proust, Brecht and Grass, died Sept. 26 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 85 years old.
        He died of complications of prostate cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Manheim won a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation "genius" award in 1983, a lifetime grant of $60,000 a year. He also won honors from PEN, a National Book Award, a prize from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and a Guggenheim Fellowship.
        He likened his work to acting, saying a translator's challenge was "to impersonate his author." His nearly 200 books and other works took many forms, including plays, novels, poetry, children's books and essays.
        Mr. Manheim's career began in 1943 with his translation of Hitler's "Mein Kampf."
        He later translated all of Gunter Grass's books, Sigmund Freud's letters to Jung, selected letters of Marcel Proust, Paul Klee, Martin Heidegger, Peter Handke, Louis-Ferdinand Celine, Hermann Hesse, Karl Jaspers, E. T. A. Hoffmann's "Nutcracker," Brothers Grimm fairy tales and transcripts of Adolf Eichmann's interrogations. He was also the co-editor of a multivolume Bertolt Brecht collection. Born in New York City
        "He works with the most elliptical French and the knottiest German and turns it into English like an alchemist," Vicky Elliott wrote in the International Herald Tribune. She called him a master at "finding English voices for other people."
        Mr. Manheim was born in New York City. After graduating from Harvard in 1926 at the age of 19, he studied at Yale, Columbia and the universities of Vienna and Munich. He spent four years in Germany, Austria and France.
        Returning to the United States, he taught, wrote stories and poems, and began translating for fees as low as $3 for every 1,000 words.
        When Mr. Manheim's version of "Mein Kampf" was published in 1943 by Houghton, Mifflin, a New York Times review said: "He has served his country, and served it well, by producing the first English Hitler translation which does justice to the author. Here, for the first time, you get Hitler's prose almost as unreadable in English as it is in German."
        In World War II, Mr. Manheim served in the United States Army as a translator. In 1950 he moved to Paris, and in 1985 to England.
        His major publishers included Farrar, Straus & Giroux; Harcourt, Brace; Doubleday and Pantheon. His last translation, Mr. Grass's "Call of the Toad," is due this year.
        Mr. Manheim was married four times. His marriages to Sylvia Marlowe and Anne Miracle were brief and ended in divorce. For 43 years he was married to the former Mary O'Connor Lechner, who died in 1985.
        Surviving are his wife of six years, Julia; a son, Nicholas Magriel of London; two daughters, Nora M. Savage of McClellanville, S.C., and Kate M. Foreman of Manhattan, wife of Richard Foreman, the director; and three grandchildren.
      