
        Dr. Thomas E. Robinson, the former president of Glassboro State College and unsuspecting host of an unsuspected East-West summit meeting in rural southern New Jersey in 1967, died on Wednesday at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 87 years old and lived in Holland, Pa.
        He died after a heart attack, the college reported.
        Dr. Robinson, a Latin scholar, was the third head of the college, which started as Glassboro Normal College in 1923. Under his leadership from 1952 to 1969, it grew by leaps and bounds. Whereas there had been no construction for 26 years, Dr. Robinson became known as the "Building President" who made Glassboro grow from five buildings to 27. Student enrollment rose from 400 to more than 3,500, with a faculty to match.
        Enriching its curriculum, Glassboro Teachers College became Glassboro State College and aspired to educational excellence. Its fine-arts summer program began to attract students from all over the country. Built Tennis Courts
        Under his direction, the college's adult center gained national acclaim with its work among migrant farm workers, illiterate adults and poor youths. An avid tennis player, he built courts on the 175-acre campus. He was a founder of the Delsea Tennis Club.
        But it was the surprise American-Soviet summit meeting of June 1967 that brought Glassboro to the nation's attention. Prime Minister Aleksei N. Kosygin was in New York for a special session of the United Nations when President Lyndon B. Johnson suggested a meeting, preferably in Washington with Camp David a possible alternative.
        Glassboro, lying about halfway between New York and Washington, became a compromise offered by Gov. Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey. As Dr. Robinson put it at the time, "I learned about it when it came over the radio." His official brown-fieldstone residence, Hollybush, was refurbished overnight and, because of a heat wave, 16 air-conditioning units were installed by the State Department. Air-conditioning at Hollybush was something Dr. Robinson had wanted for some time.
        Thousands turned out to give the summiteers a tumultuous welcome. At the end, Mr. Kosygin repaid Dr. Robinson's hopitality by giving him and his wife a silver samovar and other gifts, including a paperweight made of Baltic amber. Dr. Robinson now became known around Glassboro as the "Summit President" and got President Johnson to deliver the commencement address the following spring.
        Thomas Edmond Robinson was born in Trenton. He graduated from Lehigh University with a Latin major and earned a master's degree at the University of Pennsylvania and a doctorate at Rutgers University. He taught Latin and English in junior high and high school in Trenton and was an elementary school principal, high school principal and Mercer County Superintendent of Schools before taking over at Glassboro.
        On Sept. 1, the college became Rowan College of New Jersey in recognition of a $100 million donation made by Henry M. and Betty Rowan, the largest such individual gift ever to benefit a public college or university.
        Dr. Robinson is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Margaret Bay; A son, Timothy Bay Robinson of Ridgewood, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      