
        James W. Glanville, a Wall Street investment banker and general partner in the firm of Lazard Freres & Company, died on Wednesday at Methodist Hospital in Houston. A former resident of Darien, Conn., he was 69 years old and lived in Houston.
        He died of injuries suffered in a recent automobile accident, his family said.
        He was a banker to the petroleum, chemical and natural-resource industries for the last three decades and a director of several large corporations. He became a partner of Lazard Freres in 1978, having been a partner and managing director of Lehman Brothers for the preceding 15 years. He also was a major Lehman shareholder.
        Mr. Glanville, a native of Cooper, Tex., grew up in Dallas and graduated in 1944 from Rice University with a major in chemical engineering. He received a Master of Science degree from the California Institute of Technology in 1946 and a professional degree of chemical engineering two years later. Field Petroleum Engineer
        Before starting his career on Wall Street, Mr. Glanville was a professional engineer and worked in Texas as a field petroleum engineer for Humble Oil. At Humble he held a number of positions, including that of reservoir engineer for the Gulf Coast division. He also was the author of technical papers and books on hydrocarbon behavior, reservoir engineering and the economics of the oil industry.
        As an investment banker, Mr. Glanville saw his reputation grow from decades of relationships with major companies and his broad knowledge of their industries. He was a personal adviser to their senior executives and was fond of saying, "My clients are my friends."
        Together With Michel David-Weill of Lazard Freres, who came from Paris to assume the mantle of Andre Meyer, and other senior executives, Mr. Glanville played a role in a period of robust expansion of the firm's investment banking business.
        At the time of his death, he was a member of the boards of several companies, including Halliburton, Compaq Computer, Imcera, Minorco (U.S.A.) and Sterling Chemicals.
        Mr. Glanville was a governor of his alma mater, Rice University, where he was visiting professor of investment banking at the business school. He was a past trustee of the California Institute of Technology and currently was chairman of its capital campaign as well as its finance committee.
        In Houston, he was a trustee of the Museum of Fine Arts and the Houston Museum of Natural Science. He previously served on the board of directors of the Town of Darien Library.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy; and four sons, John of Pasadena, Calif., Charles of London, Thomas of Houston and Robert of Moscow.
      