
        Albert Rees, a labor economist who was the chief inflation monitor in the Ford Administration, provost of Princeton University and president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, died on Saturday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 71 years old.
        He died of cancer that had spread from his kidneys to other parts of his body, said Justin Harmon, a spokesman for Princeton University.
        Mr. Rees influenced a generation of labor economists with his analyses of wages, unemployment and labor markets. He was one of the first economists to conduct studies that compared the relative wealth of people in different eras.
        He was also an expert in explaining how the Government's institutions of economic policy, like the Federal Reserve or the Treasury Department, interact as they juggle the conflicting goals of equality and efficiency, full employment and stable prices. Led Wage and Price Council
        "He combined an interest and awareness of the importance of data with an ability and inclination to use it and economic theory to examine issues of public importance," said Daniel Hamermesh, an economics professor at Michigan State University in East Lansing. "He conditioned how we think about economic and labor history in this country."
        Mr. Rees was appointed by President Ford in 1974 to lead the new Council on Wage and Price Stability, which was authorized by Congress at a time when the public was expressing alarm about the inflation rate. Mr. Rees believed that the council, which had a $1 million budget and was not allowed to take steps to lower inflation, was supposed to alert the Government and the public about sources of inflationary pressure, like shortages in a particular industry.
        He was undaunted by criticism that the council would be overwhelmed by its mandate. He was asked after taking office, for instance, whether a small Government agency could have any effect on the price of an internationally traded commodity like sugar.
        "I'm unwilling to concede that until I try," Mr. Rees replied with a smile.
        Mr. Rees was born in New York City on Aug. 21, 1921. He graduated from Oberlin College and received his master's degree and his doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. He became a full professor there in 1961 and served as chairman of the economics department from 1962 to 1966.
        During his tenure at the University of Chicago, he served on the President's Council of Economic Advisers and the President's Committee to Appraise Employment and Unemployment Statistics.
        After moving to Princeton in 1966, he held a number of positions, including chairman of the economics department and the Class of 1913 Professorship of Political Economy. He taught undergraduate and graduate courses on price theory and labor economics. He also served on advisory committees for the Federal Government and the State of New Jersey.
        After leaving the Council on Wage and Price Stability in 1975, Mr. Rees returned to Princeton to serve as provost. In 1979, he was named president of the New York-based Sloan Foundation, which at that time had $250 million in assets and gave $15 million in grants a year. The foundation focuses on research in natural sciences, education, management and, to some degree, economics. Wrote Landmark Labor Study
        Mr. Rees retired from the foundation in 1989, returning to Princeton as a senior research economist.
        With George P. Shultz, the former Secretary of State and former dean of the University of Chicago School of Business, Mr. Rees was author of a landmark study, called the Chicago Labor Market Project, that was one of the first to collect and analyze data on the wages and employment conditions of individual workers.
        Mr. Rees also wrote "Striking a Balance: Making National Economic Policy" (The University of Chicago Press, 1984), "The Economics of Work and Pay" (Harper & Row, 1973), "Workers and Wages in an Urban Labor Market" (with Mr. Shultz, The University of Chicago Press, 1970) and "The Economics of Trade Unions" (The University of Chicago Press, 1962).
        Mr. Rees is survived by his wife, Marianne; three sons, David of Denver, Daniel of Kingston, Ontario, and Jonathan of Madison, Wis., and a sister, Anne Rees Held of Freeport, L.I.
      