
        Dr. Alexander Marble, an expert on diabetes and president emeritus of the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston, died Sunday at Carlton Willard Village, a retirement community in Bedford, Mass. A former resident of Brookline, Mass., he was 90 years old.
        He died after a long illness, the center said.
        As the president of Joslin from 1967 to 1976, Dr. Marble oversaw a period of rapid growth at the research and treatment center. Dr. Elliott P. Joslin laid the foundation for the center when he opened his medical practice in 1898, and Dr. Marble joined Dr. Joslin's clinic in 1932.
        Dr. Donald Barnett, a senior physician at the center, said that in Dr. Marble's tenure as president the number of patients seen at Joslin doubled. Dr. Marble also oversaw the building of the Howard F. Root Wing at the complex.
        Dr. Root, who became the first doctor in New England to administer insulin when he was working with Dr. Joslin in the 1920's, and Dr. Priscilla White, whose research helped pregnant diabetic women, were among the researchers and clinicians Dr. Marble worked with during his career at the center.
        A native of Troy, Kan., Dr. Marble earned undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Kansas and took his M.D. at Harvard Medical School in 1927. He completed his training at Johns Hopkins and Massachusetts General hospitals and spent a year as a Moseley Traveling Fellow.
        Once associated with Dr. Joslin, Dr. Marble organized the Baker Research Laboratory, then at New England Deaconess Hospital, and was its director until 1949. The laboratory has become the Joslin Research Laboratory, a part of the Joslin complex, which is now affiliated with Harvard Medical School.
        Dr. Marble served in the Army Medical Corps in World War II and retired from the reserves with the rank of brigadier general. He was a professor of medicine at Harvard, a president of the American Diabetes Association and honorary president of the International Diabetes Foundation.
        He was the principal editor of the two most recent editions of Joslin's Diabetes Mellitus, a medical textbook first published in 1916.
        Dr. Marble is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Beula Becker; a daughter, Elizabeth M. Hartwell of Framingham, Mass., and one grandson.
      