
        Henry Ephron, a playwright, screenwriter and producer whose work spanned three decades, died yesterday at the Motion Picture Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 81 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of natural causes, said his daughter Nora Ephron, the writer.
        Mr. Ephron's films, written in tandem with his wife, Phoebe, who died in 1971, were from the Hollywood era of feel-good scripts and glamorous stars.
        The Ephrons were best known for "Desk Set," which starred Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn. Their other films included "What Price Glory," with James Cagney; "Daddy Long Legs," which starred Fred Astaire; "The Jackpot," with James Stewart as the leading man and "Captain Newman, M.D.," for which they were nominated for an Academy Award for best screenplay adaptation.
        Mr. Ephron was born in the Bronx, where he attended Evander Childs High School. He later went to Cornell University before beginning his career on Broadway. His first job was stage manager in a theater working on Kaufman and Hart plays.
        Mr. Ephron met his wife at a summer camp where they were both counselors, and they were married a few weeks later. Their joint career in entertainment began with their collaboration on the play "Three's a Family," written shortly after the birth of their first child.
        In the beginning of their career, Mrs. Ephron simply made suggestions on works in progress, but soon became Mr. Ephron's full partner, giving up the role of housewife. She once told a reporter, "I don't go in the kitchen very often, except for ice cubes for a drink." After moving to Los Angeles in 1946, they continued their joint efforts as screenwriters.
        Mr. Ephron's life was almost solely dedicated to his work, said Nora Ephron. "One of the most interesting things I realized today is that he had no outside interests," Ms. Ephron said in a telephone interview. "He was active in the Writers' Guild, so that was something, but mostly he just wrote movies."
        Mr. Ephron also produced a number of films, including "Carousel," and "The Best Things in Life Are Free." After his wife's death, he wrote a memoir, "We Thought We Could Do Anything," (W. W. Norton, 1973), chronicling their life together in Hollywood.  Mel Gussow, writing in The New York Times, called the book "as much a love story as a memoir."
        The couple eventually returned to New York, where Mrs. Ephron died at the age of 57. After her death, Mr. Ephron's career as a screenwriter essentially halted. He spent the last of years of his life at the Motion Picture and Television Fund residence for retired members of the film industry.
        In addition to his daughter Nora, of New York, Mr. Ephron is survived by three other daughters, Delia and Amy, both of Los Angeles, and Hallie Touger of Milton, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
        A date for a memorial service has not yet been announced.
      