
        In a case that reveals the stress and complicated financial ties that can develop between performing artists and those who represent them, the singer Billy Joel filed a lawsuit yesterday against his lawyers, Allen Grubman and Arthur Indursky, and their New York City firm.
        The suit, filed in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, includes a wide range of charges including fraud, breach of fiduciary responsibility, malpractice and breach of contract, among others.
        Mr. Grubman, a partner of Grubman, Indursky, Schindler & Goldstein, is generally regarded as the industry's most powerful lawyer and has represented a host of top artists, including Madonna, Bruce Springsteen and Michael Jackson, as well as Al Teller, chairman of MCA Records, and Tommy Mottola, the president of Sony Music, among many others. Hired by Financial Manager
        In 1980, Mr. Grubman's firm, then called Grubman & Indursky, was hired by Billy Joel's financial manager, Frank Weber. Mr. Weber, the brother of Billy Joel's former wife, Elizabeth Weber, was sued in 1989 by Mr. Joel, who accused him of fraud. The case is expected to come to trial within a year.
        The new suit contends that Mr. Grubman, eager to build a clientele of artists, curried favor with Mr. Weber with payoffs, kickbacks and other illegal activities at the expense of Mr. Joel. As the relationships are described, Mr. Weber maintained exclusive access to the singer.
        Among other things, Mr. Joel's lawyers say they will submit into evidence copies of checks paid by Grubman & Indursky to Mr. Weber's company for tax planning and consulting services. The suit contends that the checks were kickbacks for directing Mr. Joel's business to the law firm. In one 1982 case, it says, Grubman & Indursky paid $18,000 and $9,000 to the Weber company from their personal accounts.
        In 1985, Mr. Weber's company received $100,000 in checks for consulting services. The suit states that during an investigation of Mr. Weber in May by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Mr. Grubman and Mr. Indursky could not recall any tax or consulting services provided, and the suit contends that they never performed any. The F.B.I. was investigating possible criminal behavior involving Mr. Weber at the time, the suit said.
        At the same time, the suit says that Mr. Weber was setting the fees that Mr. Joel paid Grubman & Indursky, which is said to have ultimately received as much as $750,000.
        The suit also contends that Mr. Weber put pressure on Mr. Grubman and Mr. Indursky to invest in a variety of tax shelter deals. In addition, the suit contends that the lawyers received rebates on their investments, while Mr. Joel did not, a fact of which they were aware. Suit Cites Fraud Suggestion
        In one bizarre incident described in the suit, Mr. Weber was said to have told an unhappy investor in a troubled tax shelter involving thoroughbred horses "that he could have a horse killed in order to collect insurance proceeds for the partnerships."
        The investor told Mr. Grubman of Mr. Weber's statement. Nevertheless, the suit said, Mr. Grubman, who along with Mr. Joel had money in the shelter, did not tell Mr. Joel of the suggestion of fraud "despite its relevance and materiality to Mr. Weber's lack of fitness to act as Joel's fiduciary." The suit says the horse "purportedly" died of natural causes and the tax shelter collected the insurance.  A person involved in the suit said the investor was Mr. Mottola, who at that time ran his own talent-management firm. Mr. Mottola, who did not return phone calls yesterday, is not charged with any wrongdoing.
        The suit, which seeks $30 million in compensatory damages and $60 million in punitive damages, contends that the lawyers' actions over all breached "the duties of care and undivided loyalty that they owed their client Joel."
        Mr. Grubman and Mr. Indursky did not return telephone calls, but their lawyer, Bert Fields, a partner in the Los Angeles law firm of Greenberg, Glusker, Fields, Clamen & Machtinger, denied the allegations. "They neither knew nor had reason to know that Billy Joel's manager was acting improperly," he said. "They never paid him any direct or indirect kickback or made any payment of any kind that was not a valid business transaction."
        Mr. Fields added that the men invested in the same deals and lost their investments just as Mr. Joel did.
        The suit also contends that in 1988 Mr. Joel told Walter Yetnikoff, who was then the chairman of CBS Records, that he would have to sell his New York apartment in order to afford a new home on Long Island. When Mr. Yetnikoff told Mr. Grubman that "something was wrong" and that the lawyer should hire someone to investigate Mr. Joel's financial affairs, Mr. Grubman refused "because Weber would fire him as Joel's attorney if he attempted to do so," the suit states. Question of Pension Loan
        In another case, the suit says that Mr. Weber lent a senior CBS executive $300,000 from Mr. Joel's pension fund to redecorate the executive's New York home. The suit contends that Mr. Grubman and Mr. Indursky knew of the loan but did not disclose it.
        The executive, Al Teller, who is now chairman of MCA Records but was then president of CBS Records, said yesterday that Mr. Weber had lent him the money, but that he had no idea it was from Mr. Joel's fund, since Mr. Weber had many business interests apart from the singer and that the loan and interest were repaid in 1986. "I would never borrow money from anybody under contract to CBS," Mr. Teller said.
        Grubman & Indursky represented both Mr. Joel and CBS, the suit charges, without disclosing that fact to Mr. Joel or having him sign a conflict-of-interest waiver.
        The law firm is also said to have protected Mr. Weber's interest instead of Mr. Joel's by getting the singer big cash advances from CBS instead of higher royalties. Typically, such advances could provide an intermediary like Mr. Weber with immediate payments, while the higher royalites would have returned money over a much longer period of time. The royalties would have been more beneficial to Mr. Joel in the long term, the suit said.
      