
        Dr. Irving Philips, an educator in child psychiatry and president of the International Association for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, died on Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 70 years old.
        He died of cancer of the bile duct, said his daughter, Laura, of Ithaca, N.Y.
        Dr. Philips, who was president of the American Academy of Child Psychiatry from 1985 to 1987, was a leader in the understanding of mental retardation, childhood depression and the prevention of childhood psychiatric disturbances. He retired as director of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of California at San Francisco in 1988 but continued as a professor until he retired in July 1991. He was a professor emeritus when he died.
        Dr. Philips's papers were published widely in psychiatric journals, and he was the co-author of a 1983 book, "Child Psychiatry: A Plan for the Coming Decades," the culmination of a five-year study aimed at reassessing and developing a policy for child psychiatry training and treatment.
        "It was typical of him that he was always looking to the future and seeing how the profession could be uplifted," said Dr. David Shaffer, who is the Irving Philips Professor or Child Psychiatry at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. The endowed professorship was established in Dr. Philips's honor in 1986 by his brother, Jesse, of Dayton, Ohio. Native of Connecticut
        Among other honors, Dr. Philips received the Agnes Purcell McGavin Award for Distinction in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry from the American Psychiatric Association.
        Irving Philips was born in Hartford, Conn., the son of Hungarian immigrants. He graduated from Oberlin College in 1943, and received his medical degree from the University of Illinois School of Medicine. He trained in psychiatry at the Menninger School of Psychiatry in Topeka, Kan.
        After completing a fellowship in child psychiatry at the Langley Porter Neuropsychiatric Institute at the University of California at San Francisco in 1957, he joined the university faculty and was director of the Mental Retardation Training Program. He became director of child and adolescent psychiatry at the university in 1975.
        From 1971 to 1978 he was a trustee of the American Psychiatric Association.  In 1970 he co-founded and served as chairman of the National Consortium for Child Mental Health Services, an advocacy group.
        In addition to his daughter and his brother, Dr. Philips is survived by his wife, Mary Gray; a sister, Regina, of London, and two sons, Daniel, of Los Angeles, and Donald, of Washington.
      