
        Anthony Perkins, the actor who starred in dozens of films and plays but was best known for his role as Norman Bates, the eerily soft-spoken psychopath in Alfred Hitchcock's classic thriller "Psycho," died on Saturday afternoon at his home in Hollywood. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Perkins died of AIDS, Leslee Dart, a press agent who said she was speaking for the family, reported on Saturday night.
        Though he began his career as Hollywood's next teen idol, Mr. Perkins created in "Psycho," one of his early films, a persona that has become a part of American iconography: one that he could never shake as an actor and one that he returned to more than a quarter of a century later, in the first of three sequels.
        "Norman appears on request," he said in an interview in 1989. "I would even say on demand. I can dial my own personal 800 number and Norman will reply."
        Ms. Dart said that as Mr. Perkins became increasingly ill last week, he wanted to talk about his condition. "I chose not to go public about this," he said, "because, to misquote 'Casablanca,' 'I'm not too much at being noble, but it doesn't take much to see that the problems of one old actor don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy old world.' "
        "There are many who believe that this disease is God's vengeance, but I believe it was sent to teach people how to love and understand and have compassion for each other.
        "I have learned more about love, selflessness and human understanding from the people I have met in this great adventure in the world of AIDS than I ever did in the cutthroat, competitive world in which I spent my life." A Childhood Ambition
        Mr. Perkins, the son of the actor Osgood Perkins, was born in New York City on April 4, 1932. From childhood, he wanted to be an actor, working in amateur productions and later in summer stock and television. After enrolling at Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., he transferred to Columbia University, acting in his first film, "The Actress," in 1953, while still a student.
        Shortly before he was to graduate in 1954, he auditioned with Elia Kazan for a role in "East of Eden" that he eventually lost to another young unknown actor, James Dean. Mr. Kazan, though, asked Mr. Perkins to replace John Kerr as the sensitive adolescent, Tom Lee, in the Broadway play "Tea and Sympathy."
        His role in that play, which ran for 54 weeks, caught the attention of Hollywood, where film makers saw a new teen idol in the tall, gawky, but attractive young man. In his second film, "Friendly Persuasion," he played a younger Quaker torn between his religious beliefs and the need to defend his family's homestead; the performance resulted in an Academy Award nomination for best supporting actor.
        It was in his next film, however, that Mr. Perkins first established the style that would recur throughout his career. In "Fear Strikes Out" (1956), he hauntingly portrayed Jim Piersall, the gifted Boston Red Sox outfielder who suffered a nervous breakdown and had to struggle to recover his sanity. A Cult Classic
        That style culminated in his career-defining role in "Psycho," a film which critics initially panned but which became a cult classic and a precursor of such horror films as "Halloween" and "Friday the 13th."
        Mr. Perkins portrayed the deranged, eager-to-please Norman Bates, who ran the Bates Motel, practiced taxidermy and lived with his dead mother in the quaint Victorian house on the hill. His performance had an alarming gawkiness and repressed terror and the movie added a new anxiety to taking a shower.
        He went on to appear in many films, including Orson Welles's adaptation of Kafka's "Trial" (1962), "Catch-22" (1970) and "The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean" (1972).
        While he often played moody, troubled or deranged men, he never again achieved the success of Norman Bates. In 1983, he returned to the role in "Psycho II," which was followed in 1986 by "Psycho III," which he also directed, and in 1990 by "Psycho IV: The Beginning."
        "Who's to say how it affected my career," Mr. Perkins said as he worked on the first sequel in 1982. "I never look backwards, you know. I made my first movie over 30 years ago. Without 'Psycho,' who's to say if I would have endured?"
        In addition to his films, Mr. Perkins appeared in many plays, including "Look Homeward, Angel," "Greenwillow," "Harold," "Steambath," "Equus" and "Romantic Comedy."
        Mr. Perkins is survived by his wife, the former Berry Berenson, and two sons, Osgood and Elvis, all of whom live in Hollywood.
        The passage beginning at the end of the second column, discussing his performance on Broadway in "Tea and Sympathy," should have read:
        "His role in that play, which ran for 54 weeks, caught the attention of Hollywood, where film makers saw a new teen idol in the tall, gawky but attractive young man. In his second film, 'Friendly Persuasion,' he played a younger Quaker torn between his religious beliefs and the need to defend his family's homestead; the performance resulted in an Academy Award nomination for best supporting actor.
        "It was in his next film, however, that Mr. Perkins first established the style that would recur throughout his career. In 'Fear Strikes Out' (1956), he hauntingly portrayed Jim Piersall, the gifted Boston Red Sox outfielder who suffered a nervous breakdown and had to struggle to recover his sanity."
        Correction:  September 15, 1992, Tuesday
        Because of a mechanical error, an obituary of the actor Anthony Perkins yesterday included two scrambled passages in some editions.
        The paragraph at the end of the first column was a quotation from Mr. Perkins about AIDS. It should have read: "There are many who believe that this disease is God's vengeance, but I believe it was sent to teach people how to love and understand and have compassion for each other."
      