
        Leonard Withington Mayo, an educator who spent a lifetime helping people with disabilities and who was an adviser on their needs to five Presidents, died on Tuesday at his home in Chagrin Falls, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland.
        He died in his sleep three days before his 93d birthday, said Case Western Reserve University, with which he had been associated since 1941.
        Mr. Mayo helped shape the nation's policies on child welfare, mental retardation and physical disabilities. He served on four White House Conferences on Children and Youth from 1930 to 1960, and was an adviser to the Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson and Ford Administrations.
        In 1961-62 he was chairman and director of President John F. Kennedy's Committee on Mental Retardation. He was named to that post after serving in New York on Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's Council on Rehabilitation. Member of Visiting Committee
        At his death Mr. Mayo was a member of the Visiting Committee at Case Western's Mandel School of Social Sciences.
        He was born on Sept. 4, 1899, at the Berkshire Industrial Farm, later renamed the Berkshire Farm for Boys, in Canaan, N.Y., where his father, William W. Mayo, was director. He graduated from Colby College in Maine in 1922 and began his career as program director at the Opportunity Farm for Boys in New Gloucester, Me.
        For the rest of the 1920's he worked at the Maryland Training School for Boys in Loch Raven, Md., and at the Children's Village in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He then joined the faculty of Columbia University's New York School of Social Work, with time out in 1932 for a stint as assistant director of the Emergency Relief Bureau of New York City.
        After moving to Case Western, in Cleveland, in 1941, Mr. Mayo was dean of the Mandel School and then a vice president of the university until 1949. Thirty years later he returned to the Mandel School and became a visiting professor, a development officer and, finally, a member of the Visiting Committee. Headed New York Group
        In the intervening years Mr. Mayo was executive director of the Association for the Aid of Crippled Children in New York City, taught human development at Colby College and headed the national advisory board of the Development Disabilities Technical Advisory System at the University of North Carolina.
        He was a past president of the National Conference of Social Work, chairman of the National Commission on Chronic Illness and chairman of the social welfare department of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A. In 1955 he was a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders. He was also a member of the board of the Child Welfare League of America and was its chairman for eight years.
        The Mandel School established the Leonard W. Mayo Chair in Family and Child Welfare as its first fully endowed chair in 1978. Case Western awarded Mr. Mayo an honorary doctorate at its commencement last May.
        He is survived by his wife of 68 years, the former Lena Cooley; two daughters, Margaret M. Tippet and Kathryn Loomis, both of Chagrin Falls; a sister, Mrs. Stewart Wilson of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., five grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      