
        Morris Carnovsky, a pipe-smoking character actor who endured the blacklist of the 1950's to triumph in Shakespeare, died yesterday at his home in Easton, Conn. He was 94 years old.
        His family said he died of natural causes.
        In a career that lasted more than 60 years, he appeared in first productions of plays by authors as different as George Bernard Shaw ("St. Joan" and "The Apple Cart") and Clifford Odets ("Awake and Sing" and "Golden Boy"). But when he was asked to describe the essence of an actor, he quoted a playwright whose works he did not take up until he was nearly 60.
        "Shakespeare tells us in many ways with many words" what an actor is, Mr. Carnovsky declared. "He said it for me most aptly for me in 'A Midsummer Night's Dream': 'The lunatic, the lover and the poet are of imagination all compact.' " A Stage-Struck Child
        Mr. Carnovksy was born in St. Louis on Sept. 5, 1897, the son of a grocer who took him to Yiddish theater as a child. "There was such richness in their portrayals of Jewish life," he said in a 1975 interview. "I could savor it. Once I smelled greasepaint, I was committed."
        He had the lead as Disraeli in his first play, in high school in 1914. After graduating Phi Beta Kappa from Washington University in 1920, he moved to Boston and made his first appearance as a professional actor with the Henry Jewitt Players.
        Concentrating on supporting roles, he moved to New York City and joined the Theater Guild, playing everything from Alyosha in "The Brothers Karamazov" to Kublai the Great Khan in "Marco Millions" to the Judge in "Volpone" to Brother Martin in the world premiere of "Saint Joan." In 1929 he moved into the limelight as Uncle Vanya in the Chekhov play.
        Two years later he joined the Group Theater, which was being established by friends from the Theater Guild, including Harold Clurman and Lee Strasberg. "We founded the Group," he said in 1989, "because we were sick and tired of the old romantic theater and the encrusted star system. We weren't interested in stars. We were looking for real, living drama."
        He was also looking for reassurance; he had doubts about his talent and how he was shepherding it. "I'd always had a nagging sense that I wasn't altogether the craftsman I wanted to be," he said in 1980. "I knew acting was more than just walking on, being inspired. Listening to Lee, I was eager to reduce all this to a science of acting of the highest degree. This new thing was exciting."
        The Group Theater's world premieres of Clifford Odets's plays shored up his self-confidence. Of his performance in "Golden Boy," Brooks Atkinson wrote in in The New York Times, "Morris Carnovsky beautifully conveys the silent grief of the affectionate father who realizes that he is losing his boy." Hollywood, Then the Blacklist
        After the Group Theater disbanded, Mr. Carnovsky headed for Hollywood and motion pictures. He did not enjoy making films; he said there never seemed to be enough time to develop a character. But he did play Anatole France in "The Life of Emile Zola" (1937) and George Gershwin's father in "Rhapsody in Blue" (1945). He also appeared in "Edge of Darkness" (1943), "Address Unknown" (1944), "Cyrano de Bergerac" (1950).
        But, like other alumni of the Group Theater, he came under attack from the right wing. "We were more interested in the science of acting than in so-called social ideas," he said in 1975. When the House Committee on Un-American Activities named him as a member of a Communist-front group, he took the witness stand but refused to answer questions or name anyone as a Communist.
        "As an experience," he said in 1965, "it was revolting, injurious, hurtful. But from the point of view of the entire picture, in an odd way it nurtured me, strengthened me, made me hard, objective, even resigned. And to that degree I think it fed me as an actor."
        All but banished from the California sound stages, he headed back to New York, where in 1953 he began a two-year Off-Broadway run in "The World of Sholem Aleichem." Shakespeare at 60
        Although he was then almost 60, he had never performed any Shakespeare. But in 1956 John Houseman recruited him for the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn. Houseman "did not give a damn about the blacklist," Mr. Carnovsky said.
        The first season, he played the Earl of Salisbury in "King John," the Provost in "Measure for Measure" and Gremio in "The Taming of the Shrew." He took Gremio and the Provost to Broadway in 1957. That summer he played his first Shylock in "The Merchant of Venice," which starred Katharine Hepburn as Portia.
        "That was the top," he said. "Shylock was written to the hand of the actor -- a fascinating part, and one with all those wonderful speeches, an intensely written part."
        In 1965 he played King Lear. "Remember when Shaw said he wrote 'Saint Joan' to keep John Drinkwater from doing it?" he said. "I did 'Lear' to prevent Lee J. Cobb from doing it."
        Mr. Carnovsky was elected to the Theater Hall of Fame in 1979.
        He is survived by his wife, Phoebe Brand Carnovsky; a son, Stephen, of Los Angeles; two sisters, Gertrude, of Cherry Hill, N.J., and Deborah Rosenblum of St. Louis, and a niece, Katy Dilkes of Branford, Conn.
      