
        Harold Curtis Fleming, a white Southerner who became an early leader in the struggle for racial justice in a "new South," died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 70 years old.
        Friends said he died suddenly after a brief illness.
        As executive director of the Southern Regional Council, an organization formed in 1944 to promote equal opportunity for Southerners, Mr. Fleming joined the civil-rights cause well before it became fashionable. And long after others had lost their fervor, he continued to work for that cause as head of the Potomac Institute in Washington.
        Born on July 27, 1922, in Atlanta, he spent his formative years there and on a farm in the red clay hills of northeast Georgia. After attending Boy's High School in Atlanta, he accepted a scholarship to Harvard University, where he worked on The Crimson, the college's newspaper, and The Advocate, Harvard's literary magazine. Commanded Black Company
        When the United States entered World War II, he enlisted as an officer in the Army. Through "a quirk of fate," as he put it, he wound up on Okinawa as the captain of an all-black quartermaster company. He described himself later as being "shocked, traumatized" by the experience.
        "I really came as close as anyone to realizing what it was like to be black in those days," he recalled in a newspaper interview 20 years later, "because I was intimately involved in these men and their treatment and on the receiving end in a sense myself. It amounted to being a straw boss in a very ugly, discriminatory system, which is rarely remembered today."
        After the war, he finished his studies at Harvard and, returning to Atlanta, took a "temporary" job with the Southern Regional Council. It lasted 14 years. The council was a fairly timid organization until he transformed it into a militant agent of racial equality.
        He led creation of the council's Voter Education Project aimed at getting black citizens to register en masse. As it kept tabs of voter data, the council became the sole repository for black voter-registration statistics in the South, a treasure trove of numerical evidence used in hundreds of voting-rights lawsuits. Envisioned Long Struggle
        Mr. Fleming moved to Washington in 1962 to head the Potomac Institute, a not-for-profit agency that provided counseling in race relations to public agencies and the private sector.
        In the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson, he served as deputy director of the United States Community Relations Service. He was also a founder of the National Urban Coalition, and for more than a decade he served as chairman of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing.
        In 1956, 11 years after joining the Southern Regional Council and two years after the Supreme Court decision that outlawed school segregation, Mr. Fleming co-wrote the book "Integration: North and South," in which he optimistically reported "extensive progress" in reducing discrimination.
        But 29 years later, the goal seemed as elusive as ever. The more he and other civil rights advocates overcame rudimentary problems of racism, he observed in a 1985 interview, the more complex became the problems that remained. The struggle against discrimination, he said, had merely shifted from leaping simple political and judicial hurdles to curing stubborn economic and social ills.
        And he observed: "There is a tiredness at the moment. We get tired very easily." Yet he counseled persistence, adding: "I think the things that are achieved in a field as complicated as this are achieved by people who stay with it."
        Although Mr. Fleming retired from the Potomac Institute about two years ago, he continued to write and consult about civil rights issues and affirmative action.
        "The theme of Hal Fleming's whole life is summed up in the title of that Protestant hymn, 'Let Us Together Sweetly Live,' " said Claude Sitton, retired editor of The News & Observer of Raleigh, N.C., who was chief Southern correspondent for The New York Times from 1958 to 1964. "A brilliant, effective, indefatigable worker for an integrated America in which blacks and whites could prosper alongside one another."
        Mr. Fleming's survivors include his second wife, Jenna, and two sons, Gary and Tony.
      