
        Carl J. Megel, who began teaching in a one-room schoolhouse and rose to lead the movement that spread unionism among teachers across America, died Friday at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 92 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Megel was president of the American Federation of Teachers for 12 years and served as its chief lobbyist another 18 years as the union greatly expanded its membership and national political clout.
        When he was elected as the federation's first full-time president, in 1952, the organization had only 39,000 members and a handful of collective bargaining contracts. Despite their low wages, many teachers initially resisted unionization as somehow unprofessional, and the Government was reluctant to grant their right to unionize and bargain as workers in businesses can. Membership Nearly Tripled
        During his presidency, the federation's membership rolls nearly tripled, to 109,000. The union began winning legal rights to bargain and negotiate contracts and even engaged in strikes. Recruitment thrived. Today the federation has 800,000 members and is a powerhouse in the labor movement.
        "Carl was the consummate organizer," the federation's current president, Albert Shanker, said.
        In the early years of his leadership of the union, one of Mr. Megel's biggest challenges was to oppose both Communism in the labor movement and McCarthyism, which sought to require teachers to sign loyalty oaths amid fears that some teachers were espousing subversive ideas.
        Internally, he overcame racial division in the union and segregation in some Southern locals.
        He was the co-author of a bill of rights for teachers that stressed issues like academic freedom and the job security of tenure.
        After retiring as president, he served on the union's national staff, mostly as the director of legislation. As union president and lobbyist, he criticized Presidents and Congress in an unrelenting campaign for more Federal aid to education.
        He charged that the nation shortchanged its children with overcrowded classes, decrepit school buildings and obsolete books. More money would improve education, he argued, including money for higher teachers' pay. As a lobbyist he also supported broader social issues, including civil rights, voting rights and Medicare. Started at $45 a Month
        Born on a farm in Hayden, Ind., Mr. Megel started his career teaching grades 1 through 6 in a rural school, earning $45 a month. After working his way through Franklin College in Franklin, Ind., and graduating in 1923, he taught mathematics and science and also coached sports at public schools in the Illinois towns of Toluca, Casey and Palatine.
        His second career began when he moved to Lakeview High School in Chicago in the 1930's and became active in the Chicago Teacher's Union, rising to its executive board and then becoming its full-time vice president.
        Low pay for teachers was his motivation. Most teachers of that era were single women or wives supplementing their husbands' income. He found it difficult to support his wife and two children on his salary, and that theme was echoed years later in 1962 when he said, "America's teachers are about to cast off the genteel poverty that they have been told goes with their dedication and professionalism to fight for legitimate professional status and professional reward that are their due."
        His 22-year marriage to the former Marian Stewart ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of 30 years, the former Beverly Falk; two children by his first wife, Joy Ann Gordon of Orlando, Fla., and Don Megel of Naples, Fla.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      