
        Otis S. Freeman, an innovator in television engineering who helped develop the sports instant replay and superimposed letters and graphics, died on Thursday at Anderson Memorial Hospital in Anderson, S.C. He was 71 years old and lived in Anderson.
        He died of complications of a heart attack, his family said.
        For 30 years Mr. Freeman was the chief engineer at WPIX television in New York City, then was promoted in 1983 to head of engineering for the parent Tribune Broadcasting Company.
        He won awards from the National Association of Broadcasters and the New York chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
        Instant replay was prompted in 1959 by the wishing out loud of a Yankees baseball announcer that a play could be shown again. Mr. Freeman was at the stadium that day with some engineers experimenting with videotaping machines. The remark got them thinking, and soon the instant replay was born.
        At WPIX, Mr. Freeman also developed a system known as genlock that mixes two signals to allow letters and graphics to be superimposed.
        When construction of the World Trade Center was planned in the 1960's, Mr. Freeman was at the forefront in pressing local stations to shift their broadcasting antennas from their longtime perch atop the Empire State Building to the taller structure.
        As president of the New York Television Broadcasters' all-industry committee, he argued that the move was needed to prevent signals from the Empire State bouncing off the massive twin towers, causing ghost images for viewers in some areas.
        Mr. Anderson became interested in electronics during World War II while helping develop radar equipment as a civilian employee of the United States Army Signal Corps.
        He started in broadcasting at the Allen B. DuMont Laboratories in New York City in 1944. DuMont's station was WABD, now WNYW. He joined WPIX in 1953.
        In the 1950's he taught television part time at New York University for several years. He completed a bachelor's degree in engineering at the university in 1966.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Elizabeth Jordan; two sons, John of Wyndmoor, Pa., and Stan of Northampton, Mass.; a daughter, Ginny Allen of Chalfont, Pa.; a brother, B. Roe Freeman of Atlanta; a sister, Mary Stoddard of Anderson, and three grandchildren.
      