
        Melvin L. Rosen, a prominent battler against AIDS and the immediate past chairman of Beth Simchat Torah synagogue in Manhattan, died on Monday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Rosen died from H.I.V.-related lung cancer, said Howard M. Forman, a family spokesman.
        Mr. Rosen, who was known as Mel, was a visible and effective advocate for private and governmental efforts to check the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome and to help those with the disease.
        Mr. Rosen, who graduated from Sullivan County Community College in 1969 and C. W. Post College in 1971, spent a decade in executive positions with organizations that provided jobs and job training to the unskilled. Responded to the Crisis
        Once he realized the severity and scope of the AIDS crisis, Mr. Rosen began to devote his life to combating the disease.
        As the first executive director of the Gay Men's Health Crisis/AIDS Fund from 1982 to 1983, Mr. Rosen played a central role in the early efforts to mobilize public and private resources against the disease, both in New York City, where the organization is based, and nationwide. Mr. Rosen also helped the World Health Organization set up a subcommittee on AIDS.
        He also established several service programs for the Gay Men's Health Crisis, including the so-called buddy program, which provides volunteers to help those too ill to leave home for services.
        From 1983 to 1988 Mr. Rosen served as the first director of the New York State AIDS Institute, a division of the New York State Department of Health, which was established to coordinate the state's response to the AIDS crisis.  Chairman of Congregation
        From 1988 to 1991 Mr. Rosen was chairman of Beth Simchat Torah synagogue, whose 1,100 members constitute one of the largest gay and lesbian congregations in the country.
        He was founder and chairman of the Advisory Committee for Volunteer Services to AIDS Clients of the Jewish Board of Family and Children Services.
        Mr. Rosen earned a master's degree in social work from Hunter College in 1983. Last year he received the Diego Lopez Award of the New York City chapter of the National Association of Social Workers in honor of his service to people with AIDS.
        He is survived by his parents, Irving and Norma Rosen of Hicksville, L.I.; a sister, June Schaeffer of Stony Brook, L.I., and his grandmother, Selma Blumenfeld of Brooklyn.
      