
        Leon J. Davis, a Russian immigrant who founded a small New York union of drugstore clerks in Depression-era 1932 and built it into America's largest labor organization of health care workers, died yesterday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 85 years old and lived in Queens and in Lake Worth, Fla.
        He died of heart failure, union officials said.
        Mr. Davis, who retired a decade ago, was more than a founder and president of Local 1199 of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union: he was a virtual patriarch to its generations of clerks, janitors, aides, orderlies, laundry workers, porters, dishwashers, elevator operators and other low-profile employees in hospitals, nursing homes and pharmacies. Host of Innovations
        In a turbulent half-century at the helm, he led major walkouts in New York in 1959 and 1962 and in Charleston, S.C., in 1969, was twice jailed for defying antistrike injunctions, helped overturn Federal and state laws that exempted health care workers from collective bargaining, and was instrumental in raising the wages, working conditions, living standards and dignity of thousands he called America's forgotten workers.
        Under Mr. Davis, Local 1199 grew to a peak of 150,000 members in the late 1970's and became one of the country's most progressive unions. It was among the first to establish basic education and training programs for members, innovative health care and low- and middle-income housing for their families and scholarships and vacation camps for their children.
        In the 1960's, it was one of the first unions to oppose American involvement in the Vietnam War, to campaign against nuclear proliferation and to join the civil rights movement, mustering thousands of members for protests and marches. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King called it "my favorite union."
        "The cause of justice and equality for workers everywhere in this city has lost a true champion," Mayor David N. Dinkins said in a tribute at City Hall yesterday. "Leon Davis pioneered in the campaign to win basic rights for hitherto forgotten health care workers back in the 1950's."
        Dennis Rivera, the union's current president, recalled that when Dr. King was assassinated in 1968, Mr. Davis "said we would build no monuments in his memory, but would instead build our union in his image in the struggle to end poverty, racism, injustice and war." Mr. Rivera added: "I can think of no better epitaph today for Leon Davis." Troubled by Impact of Strikes
        A short man with a mane of gray who sometimes wore a flowing beard that gave him the Moses-like aura of a law-giver, Mr. Davis was a formidable opponent at the bargaining table. He could wheedle, cajole, threaten, scream and soft-soap, when necessary, and his foes regarded him as abrasive and sometimes impossible to deal with.
        But away from negotiations and confrontations at picket lines and protests, he was a gentle, almost shy man, friends said, a connoisseur of art, music and the theater who read literature in three languages, saw almost every play on Broadway and tended roses in the small garden of his home in Flushing.
        Those closest to him said it troubled his conscience deeply that hospital and nursing home patients sometimes suffered during his union's strikes. But in making painful choices, they said, he regarded his members' welfare as his first priority.
        And, unlike many other union leaders in an era that saw corruption and greed in the labor movement, Mr. Davis's integrity was never questioned. Indeed, he made it a rule never to take a salary greater that those the union had won for its highest-paid members, and was receiving less than $40,000 a year when he retired. Questioned on Political Beliefs
        Leon Julius Davis was born on Nov. 21, 1906, in Pinsk, Russia, and went to the United States in 1921 at the age of 15. He settled with an aunt in Hartford, learned to speak English, attended public schools and moved to New York in 1927 after his mother and father migrated there.
        He attended the Columbia School of Pharmacy, but quit in the second year of a three-year course and became a drugstore clerk. In 1932, he and a half-dozen other clerks founded the union that was to be his life's work; he became a $16-a-week organizer, the union's only salaried officer, and was elected president in 1940 in the organization's first election.
        In 1948, Mr. Davis refused to tell a Congressional committee whether he was a member of the Communist Party, though he testified that the Communists and the labor movement supported many of the same social objectives. Later, he said publicly that he was not a Communist and that he had not answered because he believed the committee had no right "to probe my personal beliefs."
        Until 1959, Local 1199 represented only 5,000 drugstore workers. But Mr. Davis led organizing walkouts of 46 days in 1959 and 56 days 1962 that added tens of thousands of unskilled hospital workers who had been paid so little -- $26 to $32 a week -- that many were on welfare. Mr. Davis was jailed for 30 days in the 1962 walkout and again for 10 days during a 113-day hospital workers strike he led in Charleston, S.C., in 1969. Growth in Membership
        Spurred by the 1969 strike, Davis-led organizing drives in the 1970's added thousands of professional and technical workers in private, nonprofit hospitals and nursing homes to the non-professional membership, including registered nurses and home care workers. Eventually, 1199 spawned affiliates in 20 states and the union reached a peak of 150,000 members.
        Today, many of those members have joined other unions, and Local 1199, now unaffiliated with any other union, has more than 100,000 members in the New York area, 65 percent of them black and Hispanic women. About half the members are covered by contracts with 55 major hospitals represented by the League of Voluntary Hospitals; it will give a $400 minimum wage this year to workers who made $32 a week in 1959, along with extensive benefits won by Mr. Davis.
        Largely through Mr. Davis's efforts, a New York State law denying health care workers in nonprofit institutions the right to bargain collectively was repealed in 1963 and a similar exemption in Federal law was overturned in 1974.
        Mr. Davis was succeeded as president in 1982 by Doris Turner, who led an unsuccessful 46-day strike in 1984 and was succeeded by Mr. Rivera in 1986.
        Mr. Davis is survived by his wife, the former Julia Gaberman, a retired social worker; two daughters, Jo Ubogy, of Cos Cob, Conn., and Liane Vida, of Lawrence, Kan., and two grandchildren.
      