
        Thomas I. Fitzgerald, a lawyer and former Manhattan Democratic Party and court official, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old.
        His family declined to give a specific cause of death.
        Mr. Fitzgerald served for 19 years as the public administrator for the Manhattan Surrogate Court. He was a longtime party officer, serving as secretary and eventually first vice chairman of the Manhattan organization. He was also a longtime friend and aide to Carmine G. DeSapio, the Tammany Hall leader.
        His court post and his political ties were the sources of several investigations, although Mr. Fitzgerald was never convicted of any wrongdoing. A wiretap on his telephone produced leads culminating in the indictments in 1976 of Mr. DeSapio, judges and other public figures.
        Mr. Fitzgerald was indicted on charges of perjury and criminal contempt and accused of lying when he denied being asked "to go up and see" Mr. DeSapio to avoid the telephone because it might have been tapped.
        Mr. Fitzgerald was also an unindicted figure in a related case. Investigators charged that he waived a conflict of interest rule to allow a judge's son to sell $100,000 of property even though the son was the official appraiser of the items. In return, the prosecutors said, the judge agreed to assign lucrative court cases to lawyers that Mr. Fitzgerald designated.
        The courts dismissed the charges against Mr. Fitzgerald. They ruled that the Special Prosecutor in the DeSapio case, Maurice H. Nadjari, obtained his wiretapping warrants without justification and distorted evidence.
        After retiring from the surrogate court shortly before his indictment in the DeSapio case, Mr. Fitzgerald practiced law, specializing in estates. He worked until a recent illness.
        Mr. Fitzgerald was born in Manhattan. He graduated from Fordham University and St. John's Law School. He became a surrogate's law assistant in 1946 and later was a law secretary to a state judge. Active in the Knights of Columbus, he served as chairman of the local New York chapter and deputy state leader.
        His first wife, Dorothy, is deceased. He is survived by his wife, Catherine; their daughter, Carol Turecamo of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      