
        Jacob A. Salzmann, an expert on dentistry, orthodontics and cleft palates, died on Friday at his home in in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        He was recently hospitalized, but the cause of death was not disclosed.
        Dr. Salzmann was an outspoken advocate of early dental and orthodontic treatment for children, of incorporating dentistry and orthodontics into public-health programs and of making examinations and treatment available to poor people.
        When he first promoted these causes in the 1920's and 1930's during the depths of the Depression, dentistry was a luxury for most people. In 1945, he said that 90 percent of schoolchildren examined had dental problems, but few got treatment.
        Dr. Salzmann was a past president of the American Association of Orthodontists and the American Board of Orthodontics.
        For 25 years he was a consultant to both the New York State and City Health Departments. The city developed one the nation's first free dental programs for students. He also was an adviser to the United States Public Health Service and a delegate to White House Conferences for Children and Youth in 1950, 1960 and 1970. Classified Malocclusion
        As a researcher, Dr. Salzmann classified malocclusion by degree of severity, a system that was widely adopted in determining the priority of patients for treatment. Other subjects he researched included decay, tooth shifting, fluoride, and dental and facial anomalies involving endocrinology and genetics.
        He was a professor at Mount Sinai Medical Center and also founded its cleft palate clinic.
        Prolific as an author and editor, Dr. Salzmann wrote 10 books, many of them used as textbooks and some translated into Italian and Spanish. He was a contributor on dentistry and orthodontics to the Encylopedia Britannica and Encyclopedia Americana.
        For 41 years he edited reviews and abstracts for the American Journal of Orthodontics and for 26 years edited the New York Journal of Dentistry. He also wrote numerous articles, editorials and reviews in medical and dental journals, and gave lectures across the country and overseas.
        His work won numerous awards and honorary degrees in North and South America, Europe and Asia.
        Dr. Salzmann, who grew up in Philadelphia, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania College of Dental Medicine in 1923. He practiced dentistry and worked on a dental journal in Philadelphia until 1930, when he moved to New York City. He retired in the 1970's.
        His first wife, Leah, and second wife, Doreen, are both deceased.
        His survivors include a daughter, Rhoda Herz of Athens, Ga., five grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      