
        Quentin N. Burdick, who had represented North Dakota in the United States Senate for the last 32 years, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Fargo, his hometown. He was 84 years old.
        His Washington office said Senator Burdick, who had been afflicted with heart disease for months, died of heart failure.
        Mr. Burdick's career in the Senate was notable in part for its duration. Of the Senate's current members, only Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia have served longer, and only Mr. Thurmond, now 89, is older.
        In more than three decades on Capitol Hill, Mr. Burdick, a Democrat, acquired a reputation for an unabashed pursuit of Federal funds for pork-barrel projects in his home state. His critics nicknamed him the King of Pork, but he never seemed to mind.  "I'll get everything North Dakota is entitled to," he once said, "now." Son of a Congressman
        Quentin Northrop Burdick was born on June 19, 1908, in Munich, N.D., the son of a leading Fargo lawyer, Usher Lloyd Burdick. The father was a Republican who served 10 terms in the House of Representatives before his retirement in 1959, when Quentin succeeded him as the first Democrat whom North Dakota had ever sent to Congress.
        Quentin Burdick received his undergraduate and law degrees at the University of Minnesota, where, as a blocking back for the football legend Bronco Nagurski, he suffered an injury that would exclude him from military service in World War II.
        Admitted to the bar in 1932, he joined his father's firm, whose clients included the left-leaning Farmers Union. As a rumpled young man of great energy, he traveled all over the state during the Depression to advise farmers threatened with foreclosure. That role allowed him to gain wide recognition and a foundation on which to build his popularity.
        Mr. Burdick soon became active in the Non-Partisan League, a populist-progressive group then allied with the Republicans. He lost elections for various offices as a Republican, then jumped parties, becoming a Democrat and managing to bring the N.P.L. along. A race for the Senate in 1956 ended in his sixth defeat at the polls, but it was his final one.
        In 1958, the year his first wife, the former Marietta Janecky, died of cancer, he ran with Democratic-N.P.L. backing for the House and won the race to succeed his father. He quickly built up a voting record rated highly by organized labor and the liberal Americans for Democratic Action.
        In 1960 he won a special election to fill the unexpired term of the late Senator William Langer. He won election to a full term in 1964 and in each of his four bids for re-election since then. His toughest challenge came four years ago, when his opponent, Earl Strinden, the 56-year-old Republican leader of the North Dakota House, waged a campaign based largely on Mr. Burdick's age. "We're not making age an issue," Mr. Strinden said then, "but every time a story is written it is always mentioned that my opponent is 80 years old."
        For most of his Senate career, Mr. Burdick rotated out of committees before he ever achieved a chairmanship. But in 1986, when the Democrats regained Senate control from the Republicans, he was named chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee. Still, he remained inclined to delegate much of his authority to subcommittee chairmen.
        Although he was proud of his role in funneling Federal dollars to North Dakota, his efforts occasionally backfired. In late 1990, for instance, he obtained a $500,000 Federal grant to help build a German-Russian museum in Strasburg, N.D., the birthplace of the bandleader Lawrence Welk. The project was widely criticized as a stark example of pork-barrel politics, and early in 1991 Congress voted to withdraw it.
        Mr. Burdick's current term does not expire for two more years, and a special election must be held by Dec. 7 to fill it. Yesterday Gov. George Sinner, a Democrat, said he would appoint an interim successor within a week.
        Mr. Burdick is survived by his second wife, the former Jocelyn Birch Peterson, whom he married in 1960; six children, Jonathan, Jan Mary, Jennifer, Jessica, Birch and Leslie; a brother, Judge Eugene Burdick of Williston, N.D.; a sister, Eileen Levering of Ohio, and seven grandchildren.
      