
        Bradford K. Bachrach, the retired president of Bachrach Photographers, the portrait studio chain, died on Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 81 years old.
        He died in his sleep, apparently of natural causes, his family said.
        The Bachrach firm is best known for having made portraits of every American President since Abraham Lincoln. Most of the firm's Presidential photographs were taken by members of the Bachrach family, now in its fourth generation in the business.
        Mr. Bachrach headed the company from 1955 until he retired in 1978. A career photographer as well as a company official, he specialized in portraits of women. He also photographed Presidents Herbert Hoover, Dwight D. Eisenhower and Lyndon B. Johnson. With his father, he did a portrait of Eleanor Roosevelt.
        The company was founded by Mr. Bachrach's grandfather, David, who helped take a photograph of the platform and crowd at Gettysburg when Lincoln delivered his famous address.
        Lincoln himself cannot be identified in the wide-angle picture, but the Bachrachs never again made the mistake of allowing a President to elude their lenses.
        David Bachrach opened his own studio in 1868. Its operations were expanded nationally by his son, Louis Fabian Bachrach. In turn, the company was taken over by his sons, Bradford and L. Fabian Bachrach.
        Today the company, based in Watertown, Mass., has studios in Manhattan, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia and Washington.
        Bachrach studios perfected techniques of lighting and camera angles to produce flattering images of their subjects, reasoning that clients want their portraits to be "not a likeness but an idealization."
        Born in Worcester, Mass., Mr. Bachrach grew up in Newton, Mass. After graduating from Harvard in 1933, he joined the family business. He left during World War II to served as a lieutenant in the Navy, working in photography.
        His wife of 53 years, the former Rosamond Esselen, died in April.
        He is survived by a son, William B. of Philadelphia; three daughters, Doro Bachrach of Manhattan, Susan Bachrach of Cambridge, Mass., and Laura Bachrach Prober of Atherton, Calif.; a sister, Jeanne Kimball of Westport, Conn.; a brother, Fabian of West Newton, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      