
        Garret G. Ackerson Jr., a retired career Foreign Service officer who headed United States legations and embassies in Eastern Europe during some of the most difficult periods of the cold war, died Monday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Ackerson, who had long suffered from Parkinson's disease, died of kidney failure, said his daughter, Rhoda A. Weyr of Manhattan.
        In 1957 as the temporary charge d'affaires of the United States Embassy in Budapest, Mr. Ackerson was host to Josef Cardinal Mindszenty, the Roman Catholic primate of Hungary, who had taken refuge in the legation after the Soviet Union had crushed the Hungarian uprising in October 1956.
        It was Mr. Ackerson's second tour in Budapest in a difficult period. In 1940 Mr. Ackerson was the last American diplomat to leave Budapest, where he had served for five years and where his first wife, Rhodita Ellen Edwards, had used the diplomatic immunity of their home to hide refugees fleeing Poland after World War II began in September 1939.
        Mr. Ackerson also served as counselor and charge d'affaires in Warsaw and Prague in the early 1950's. From 1955 to 1957 he was the United States minister in Buenos Aires, arriving there just months before the dictator Juan Peron was ousted.
        Mr. Ackerson, who was born in Hackensack, N.J., joined the Foreign Service after receiving his bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1927. The next year he was given his first posting, to Cape Town, South Africa, as vice consul. His other postings during his 33-year career included Peru, Colombia, Cuba, and Denmark.
        In 1949 Mr. Ackerson was removed from his post of chief of the division of Southeast European Affairs at the State Department after refusing to dismiss several staff members whom Senator Joseph R. McCarthy had accused of being leftists.
        Mr. Ackerson retired from the Foreign Service from his post in Budapest in 1961 and was appointed European director of the International Rescue Committee, a private refugee agency. He went to Vietnam in 1968 shortly before the Tet offensive to set up the agency's refugee relief effort for Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees. He retired from the agency in 1987.
        Mr. Ackerson's first wife, Rhodita Ellen Edwards, died in 1971.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Ackerson is survived by his second wife, the former Suzanne Addor; two sons, Garret G. Ackerson 3d of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Edmund E. Ackerson of Belmont, Mass., 12 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      