
        Lou Jacobs, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus's master clown who performed before millions for six decades, died on Sunday in Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89 years old and lived in Sarasota.
        He died of heart failure, said a circus spokesman, Rodney Huey.
        For many years, Mr. Jacobs's whiteface makeup with its gargantuan, goofy smile, outlandish eyebrows and plum-sized nose was the emblem for the Ringling circus, and he may have been the world's most famous living clown. In 1966 his face was on a United States Postal Service stamp.
        Mr. Jacobs has long been ranked with three of the century's other greatest circus clowns: Otto Griebling, Emmett Kelly and Felix Adler. But given Mr. Jacobs's fame, the length of his performing career and the size of the Ringling crowds, circus performers have long argued that Mr. Jacobs made more people laugh in live performances than anyone else in history.  Aside from his one-of-a-kind makeup, Mr. Jacobs's trademarks included a tiny hat perched precariously upon his pointy head, and his feisty Chihuahua, Knucklehead, which Mr. Jacobs trained, always, to steal the show.
        Mr. Jacobs was legendary for the gags he brought to the tanbark, among them sliding around the hippodrome track on water skis and powering past spectators in a motorized bathtub.
        Perhaps his most famous prop was the 2-by-3-foot, fully operational mini-car he constructed, into which he contorted his 6 foot 2 inch frame. His labored entrance into the ring from the tiny vehicle -- preceded by a mammoth clown shoe waving tentatively in the air -- was long a signature of his performances.
        Mr. Jacobs, whose original name was Jacob Ludwig, was born in Bremerhaven, Germany, in 1903. He saw his first clown act at the age of 11 and practiced acrobatics and comedy at the age of 15. He came to the United States in 1923 and was hired by John Ringling in 1925.
        For years Mr. Jacobs worried that there was a dearth "of young people who want to be circus performers," he once said in an interview. He helped to redress that problem in the summer of 1968, when he was a founding professor at the Clown College of the Ringling Circus in Venice, Fla., which brought a new generation of clowns into the circus.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean Rockwell, a former aerialist; two daughters, Lou Ann Barreda and Dolly Jacobs of Sarasota, both of whom have also been star circus aerialists, and a granddaughter.
      