
        Ernest M. Wuliger, who expanded his family's mattress company into the nation's largest manufacturer of bedding, died on Sept. 5 at his home in Cleveland. He was 71 years old.
        He died of brain cancer, his family said.
        For nearly 40 years Mr. Wuliger headed the Ohio Mattress Company in Cleveland and eventually bought two other major manufacturers, Sealy and Stearns & Foster.
        When the combined company was sold in 1989, its annual sales were almost $700 million. That accounted for 28 percent of the United States market, while the next largest manufacturer, Simmons, had 11 percent .
        Mr. Wuliger was known for his marketing skills and folksy personal approach with his customers. He pitched his premium line by sprawling on mattresses in television commercials. Won 16-Year Antitrust Battle
        His big coup was winning a $77 million award in an antitrust battle with Sealy that lasted nearly 16 years, and then using that money to buy Sealy in 1986.
        The battle had its roots in 1924, when Ohio Mattress originally obtained a local license to make Sealy mattresses. Over the years it acquired other regional licenses from Boston to Houston to Puerto Rico. But Mr. Wuliger charged in the lawsuit that Sealy was blocking further expansion by his company.
        When Ohio Mattress went private in 1989, it sold for nearly $1 billion to Gibbons, Green, van Amerongen, a leveraged buyout firm in Manhattan. Some critics thought the price was too high, but other analysts noted the company's strong brand-name recognition and dominant market share.
        Mr. Wuliger's share of that stock was worth more than $100 million. A year after the sale he led a group of investors trying to buy back the Stearns & Foster division for $87.5 million, but the purchase fell through.
        Ohio Mattress was founded in 1907 by his grandfather, Moris Wuliger, a Hungarian immigrant who started as a grocer and switched to bedding. The company's reins passed to his son, Frank.
        Mr. Wuliger, who was born in Cleveland, dropped out of college in 1939 to join the business as a payroll clerk and purchasing assistant. In World War II he served as a radar instructor in the Navy.
        He began running the company in the 1950's, officially became president when his father died in 1963 and later added the title of chairman. His expansion of the company culminated with the Stearns & Foster purchase in 1983 and Sealy in 1986.
        Surviving are his wife of 51 years, the former Patricia Wise; three sons, Timothy of Cleveland, Jeffrey of Tampa, Fla., and Gregory of Fresno, Calif.; a brother, Frank, and sister, Connie Unger, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      