
        Norman Newton, a landscape architect who redesigned the setting for the Statue of Liberty in 1937, died on Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        He died of septicemia, a blood infection, said his wife, the former Lyyli Lamsa.
        Norman Thomas Newton was born in 1898 in Corry, Pa. He graduated from Cornell University in 1919, receiving his master's degree in landscape design the next year. A winner of the Prix de Rome in 1923, he spent three years as a resident fellow at the American Academy in Rome, where he studied the gardens of Italian villas. On his return to the United States in 1926, he designed gardens for private country estates. Beautifying Public Sites
        In 1932, Mr. Newton opened his own office in New York City, seeking to become involved with public-works projects under the auspices of the Civilian Conservation Corps. His chance to redesign the setting for the Statue of Liberty came when he was appointed resident landscape architect for the northeastern region of the National Park Service. His master plan for what was then called Bedloes Island called for removing old Army barracks and creating a formal design of lawns and walkways. His other public-works projects included master plans for the Custom House in Salem, Mass., and for Saratoga Battlefield National History Park.
        Mr. Newton returned to Italy in World War II as senior monuments officer attached to the British Eighth Army. He surveyed damaged architectural monuments and advised Allied officers and troops on the historical value of buildings at risk of destruction. He was decorated by the Italian Government in 1946 and 1950.
        He joined the faculty of the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University in 1939 and, except for his years in Italy during the war, taught at the school until his retirement in 1967. He was a fellow of the American Society of Landscape Architects and was its president from 1957 to 1961.
        He wrote widely on landscape design, and his 1971 book, "Design on the Land," remains a classic history of his discipline.
        Besides his wife, there are no immediate survivors.
      