
        Dan Lacey, an authority on changes in the American work force, especially on the wave of cutbacks made by companies in recent years, died on Monday in Westlake, Ohio. He was 42 years old.
        Mr. Lacey died of a heart attack, said his wife, Margaret.
        Mr. Lacey, the editor of the Workplace Trends newsletter, monitored and compiled the numbers of layoffs, early retirement programs and other work-force cuts at American corporations using a method that was more timely and comprehensive than Government statistics. Mr. Lacey found that in the latter months of 1991, for example, staff cuts reached the pace of 2,600 for each working day, a widely quoted statistic that emphasized the magnitude of job losses.
        Beyond tracking the phenomenon, Mr. Lacey also studied the causes of the labor cutbacks. He was often interviewed as a labor-market expert by network television news programs, newspapers and magazines.
        In the current issue of Time magazine, Mr. Lacey was one of the several experts assembled by the magazine to offer their views on the state of the American economy and the outlook. He was also a consultant to corporations on personnel issues.
        An advocate of the need for worker training, Mr. Lacey believed that one of the reasons for the widespread staff cutbacks by American companies was that neither the government nor companies had provided many workers with the skills necessary to compete in an advanced economy open to foreign rivals. Self-Trained Analyst
        Mr. Lacey was a self-trained analyst of trends in the United States economy. He studied at Ohio State University, but did not hold a bachelor's degree. He began his career as a newspaper reporter, starting at 18 years old as a copy boy for The Times-Leader in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., his hometown. He later worked as a reporter for Scranton Times in Scranton, Pa., The Miami Herald and The Cleveland Press until it went out of business.
        In 1988, Mr. Lacey founded the newsletter Workplace Trends, which is published six times a year. He was the author of three books, "The Paycheck Disruption: Finding Success in the Workplace of the '90's," "The Essential Immigrant" and "Your Rights in the Workplace." He was an editor of "Work in the 21st Century."
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Lacey is survived by his parents, Harold and Florence, of Wilkes-Barre; his sister, Cynthia Silverman of York, Pa., and his brother, Harold Jr., of Hershey, Pa.
      