
        Harold Louis Humes, a novelist and a co-founder of the literary journal The Paris Review, died on Thursday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Mr. Humes died of cancer, said his daughter Alison, of Manhattan.
        Mr. Humes was born in Douglas, Ariz., and grew up in Princeton, N.J. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology but left before graduating to serve in the Navy during World War II. In 1951, while living in Paris, he and Peter Matthiessen became co-founders of The Paris Review, with George Plimpton as the editor. The magazine published the work of newcomers including Philip Roth, Terry Southern and V. S. Naipaul.
        Mr. Humes returned to the United States and graduated from Harvard in 1954. His first novel, "The Underground City," immediately established him as one of the most promising young writers of his generation. The book, a study of postwar France centering on the trial of a man accused of collaborating with the German invaders, was published by Random House in 1958. Reviewing the novel for The New York Times, Orville Prescott found it somewhat "overstuffed" but described Mr. Humes as "alarmingly talented."
        Mr. Prescott continued: "His is as authentic a gift for fiction as has appeared in a long time."
        Mr. Humes's second novel, "Men Die," published by Random House in 1960, was also well received.
        His third novel was never completed, he told his family, because of mental illness. Since 1973, Mr. Humes lived in Boston and Cambridge, and he was frequently seen playing chess in Harvard Square. He became involved in a number of unorthodox activities, among them founding an organization he called the Unidentified Flying Idea, or U.F.I., which provided free community services.
        Besides his daughter Alison, Mr. Humes is survived by four daughters, Mavis, of Wernersville, Pa., Valerie, of New York City, Alexandra Aldrich of Waltham, Mass., and Devin Loman of Cambridge, and one son, Malcolm Einaudi of Turin, Italy.
        Correction:  September 16, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday about Harold Louis Humes, a novelist, misidentified one of his children. Devin Loman is one of Mr. Humes's two sons; Mr. Humes also had three daughters.
      