
        Zoltan L. Bay, a pioneering physicist in the United States and his native Hungary, died Sunday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 92 years old.
        He died of emphysema, his family said.
        His experiments with microwaves reflected from the Moon in 1946 helped start radar astronomy, in which celestial bodies are studied by bouncing radio signals off their surfaces. His electron mutliplier devices for counting particles are on permanent exhibit at the Smithsonian Institution. His work at the United States National Bureau of Standards led to new measurements of the speed of light and a new international standard for a combined measurement of time and length.
        His specialties included electroluminescence, atomic and molecular spectroscopy and high-energy radiation ionization. His work led to several patents, including one for generating light by burning carborundum.  Work With Nitrogen
        Dr. Bay was born in Gyulavari. He earned his doctorate at the Pazmany Peter University of Natural Sciences in Budapest. In the 1920's he did research at an international physics center in Berlin, where he gained attention by proving that active nitrogen gas contains free nitrogen atoms.
        At the age of 30, he joined the University of Szeged in Hungary as its youngest full professor in 1930. He moved to the University of Technical Sciences of Budapest in 1937 as chairman of its atomic physics department. He was also head of the Mathematics and Natural Sciences Division of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.
        During World War II, he protected Jewish colleagues from Nazi persecution. As the research director and general manager of Tungsram, a major electronics company, he tried to save its factory from destruction by Soviet troops.
        Fearing imprisonment after the Communist takeover, he fled in 1948. In 1990, as Communism was collapsing, the Hungarian Government awarded him its Order of the Flag.
        In the United States, Dr. Bay became a research professor at George Washington University and in 1955 he joined the staff of the National Bureau of Standards. Since 1973 he was a senior research scientist at American University.
        His first marriage ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of 45 years, the former Julia Herczegh; a son, Zoltan K. of Chevy Chase; a daughter, Julia Hasizume of Hartsdale, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      