
        The Rev. Joseph M. Kitagawa, a theologian who was instrumental in establishing religion as an independent discipline on America's campuses and in introducing the religions of Japan to the West, died Wednesday in Chicago.  He was 77 years old.
        He died of pneumonia at the Bernard Mitchell Hospital after suffering a stroke earlier this year, said Jeff Makos, a spokesman for the University of Chicago. Dr. Kitagawa was the former dean of the university's School of Divinity.
        Dr. Kitagawa, who lived in Hyde Park, had been associated with the divinity school since he was a doctoral student there in the late 1940's. He joined the faculty after he graduated in 1951. At the time of his death, he held the title of professor emeritus and until recently continued publishing and consulting with students.
        A colleague at the divinity school, the Rev. Martin E. Marty, said of Dr. Kitagawa: "He wrote more books after retirement than many professors write during their entire lifetime."
        His effort to introduce the religions of Japan to the West virtually spanned his publishing career from his "Religions of the East" in 1960 (Westminster Press) to "Spiritual Liberation and Human Freedom in Contemporary Asia" in 1990 (Peter Lang). But his interests were not limited to Japan. His last book, published earlier this year, was "The Christian Tradition: Beyond its European Captivity" (Trinity Press International).
        Together with the late Mircea Eliade, the theologian who was a colleague at the divinity school, and others, Dr. Kitagawa was a founding editor in 1960 of the international journal, "History of Religions." The journal helped define and establish the study of religion as an independent academic discipline rather than as an aspect of some other course of study such as sociology or psychology.
        Publication of the journal grew out of an international conference on the History of Religions held in 1959 at the University of Chicago. Essays from the conference were collected in "The History of Religions: Essays in Methodology," (University of Chicago Press), one of numerous books edited by Dr. Kitagawa and Dr. Eliade.
        Dr. Kitagawa served as dean of the divinity school, one of the nation's most prominent training grounds for Protestant ministers and for the academic study of religion, from 1970 to 1980. Surviving Through 'Spirit'
        He was born in Osaka, Japan, on March 8, 1915. He came to the United States in 1941 to study theology but his life was disrupted when, like tens of thousands of others of Japanese ancestry, he was sent to a detention camp by the Government. He spent three and a half year in detention, first at the Enemy Alien Detention Camp in Santa Fe, N.M., and later at the Army Internment Camp at Lordsburg, N.M., where he was ordained as a priest by an Episcopal bishop who visited the camp. He was then sent to the Minidoka War Relocation Center Camp at Hunt, Idaho, where he remained until October 1945.
        While in internment in Idaho he served as a minister to an Episcopal church as he did later in Seattle after his release. In his early days at the University of Chicago, he also worked with Japanese-Americans on behalf of the Episcopal bishop of Chicago.
        Only recently, in his new book, "The Christian Tradition," did he write about his incarceration. He wrote that the immigrants survived the ordeal through their "spirit, which enabled them to endure and overcome almost insurmountable difficulties, disappointments and setbacks."
        Dr. Marty, who served as an associate dean during Dr. Kitagawa's first five years as head of the divinity school, said that Dr. Kitagawa drew on his incarceration when students at the school were protesting the War in Vietnam.
        "He related his experiences as a war-time prisoner during a speech to students," Dr. Marty said. "It was the only time I remember him talking about it. He said, 'I know you all have criticism of our country. I do too. You're not the only generation that has suffered. For almost four years I was detained in a camp. But I still want this to be my place of destiny.' "
        He became a United States citizen in 1955.
        Dr. Kitagawa is survived by his wife, Evelyn; a daughter, Anne Rose Kitagawa of Chicago, and two sisters, Michi Tsuda and Mie Kitagawa of Oaska, Japan.
      