
        Dr. James Johnston Stoker Jr., a former director of New York University's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, died on Monday at his home in Greenwood Lake, N.Y. He was 87 years old.
        His family reported the death on Tuesday and said he had died after a long illness.
        Dr. Stoker became director of the institute in 1958 upon the retirement of Dr. Richard Courant, who founded it in 1934. Dr. Stoker had served as his assistant director. Dr. Stoker led the institute until 1966, concurrently holding the post of chairman of the all-university Department of Mathematics. In 1966, he was named Distinguished Professor of Mathematics. He reached emeritus status in 1977 but continued to teach part time for six more years.
        Dr. Stoker, a native of Dunbar, Pa., received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the Carnegie Intitute of Technology and earned a doctorate in mathematics at the Technische Hochschule in Zurich. He joined N.Y.U. as an assistant professor of mathematics in 1937 after teaching the subject at the Carnegie Institute for several years.
        He worked in the spheres of differential geometry, elasticity, vibration theory and hydrodynamics. Part of his work applied to water flow and flood waves in rivers and large reservoirs. French mathematicians had produced a mathematical formulation for that in the 19th century, but the differential equations involved for practical application remained beyond their reach.
        The arrival of high-speed digital computers enabled Dr. Stoker to tackle flood-wave problems in rivers. His breakthrough came in the mid-1950's, when he and the institute's Univac came to the aid of the United States Army Corps of Engineers in Cincinnati, accurately calculating river flow for one of the Ohio River's biggest floods on record.
        Among his books were "Differential Geometry" (Wiley, 1969), "Nonlinear Elasticity" (Gordon & Breach, 1968), and "Water Waves" (Wiley, 1957).
        Dr. Stoker is survived by a son, Jerome L., of Queens; two daughters, Nancy Jane Pierce of River Falls, Wis., and Sue Remine Zwadlo of Greenwood Lake; seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      