
        Ulysses Guimaraes, a veteran congressman often called the "grandfather" of Brazil's democracy, drowned on Monday when a helicopter in which he was flying fell into the South Atlantic about 100 miles south of here. He was 76 years old.
        Also killed in the crash were his wife, Ida de Almeida Guimaraes; a former Cabinet minister, Severo Gomes; Mr. Gomes's wife, Henriqueta Gomes, and the pilot, Jorge Comeratto. The group had spent the weekend at a beach resort south of here and was flying back to Sao Paulo when a violent thunderstorm struck.
        The accident ended the 48-year political career of a man who had struggled for generations to implant civilian democracy in South America's largest nation. Headed Largest Party
        A former constitutional lawyer, Mr. Guimaraes served from 1970 to 1990 as president of the nation's largest political party, the Brazilian Democratic Movement. During the 1970's, the party was the sole opposition allowed by Brazil's ruling military.
        In 1973, he waged a quixotic campaign for President in an election whose result was determined through a military-controlled electoral college. He lost to an army general, but his bid led to greater pressure for a return to civilian government.
        In 1984, he led a series of big rallies in Brazil's coastal cities calling for direct elections for President.
        No stuffy politician, Mr. Guimaraes was a stirring orator, and he once commented: "The people in the streets are my statue. The other kind of statue, of reinforced concrete, doesn't interest me -- birds drop on its head."
        With democracy slowly penetrating Brazilian politics, Mr. Guimaraes delivered the coup de grace to military rule when he presided over a convention in 1987 that wrote a new Constitution to replace an earlier one written by the military. He was then at the height of his political power, serving as president of the Chamber of Deputies. On 22 occasions he played the role of Acting President when President Jose Sarney traveled overseas.
        But Mr. Guimaraes failed miserably when Brazilians finally got the chance to vote for President, in 1989. Running as the Democratic Movement, he came in fifth, far behind the winning candidate, Fernando Collor de Mello.
        In recent months, the 11-term lawmaker had returned to national prominence, leading what was to be his final crusade: the impeachment of Mr. Collor on corruption charges.
        At a time when Brazilians perceived many of their leaders to be contaminated by corruption, the press held up "the old man" as an example of someone who lived modestly after a career in politics.
        Information on any survivors was not immediately available.
      