
        Feodor Chaliapin Jr., who blossomed into an octogenarian movie star after 60 years of mostly bit parts and cameos, died on Sept. 17 in Rome. He was 87 years old and had been a resident of Rome since shortly after World War II.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Chaliapin, the son and namesake of the Russian bass Feodor Chaliapin, viewed his late-blooming success with wry humor. To American audiences, he was probably most memorable as the dog-walking grandfather in "Moonstruck," a 1987 release starring Cher and Nicolas Cage.
        He had long given up counting the movies and plays in which he appeared when, at the age of 81, he got a serious role intended for John Huston. Mr. Huston had begged off because of ill health, and Mr. Chaliapin got to play the blind, murderous monk Jorge of Burgos in "The Name of the Rose" (1986), appearing with Sean Connery and F. Murray Abraham.
        He was then cast in well-defined supporting roles in other films, including "Stanley and Iris" (1990), in which he played Robert De Niro's father, and "Inner Circle" (1991) starring Tom Hulce. An Immigrant in Paris
        Mr. Chaliapin was born in Moscow. In 1922, his family managed to emigrate, and they joined the Russians in Paris who bemoaned the Bolshevik Revolution. To break away from his famous father, Mr. Chaliapin headed for Hollywood and the booming silent-movie industry, where his accent would not be considered a handicap.
        Thanks to his name and his father's admirers, there came a steady flow of work until he could make his mark as a dependable character actor. In one of his briefest roles, he died in Gary Cooper's arms in the opening scene of "For Whom the Bell Tolls."
        After he moved to Rome, he acted in many Italian pictures, few of which reached American screens.
        Two early marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his twin sister, Tatiana Chaliapin Chernoff of Rome, and several nieces and nephews.
      