
        Robert Trumbull, who chronicled war, the birth of nations and sweeping economic change in Asia and the Pacific region in more than three decades as a correspondent for The New York Times, died on Sunday at a hospital in Honolulu. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Trumbull had been suffering from cancer of the throat, his daughter Suzanne said. He had been admitted to Queen's Medical Center in August for radiation treatment.
        Mr. Trumbull was in Karachi on the day Pakistan became independent in 1947 -- and in New Delhi that night to watch India become independent. He went on to report on rioting in Punjab, war in Kashmir and the assassination of Mohandas K. Gandhi.
        The leaders he interviewed ranged from King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia to Jawaharlal Nehru of India to Ho Chi Minh of Vietnam, whom he visited in Hanoi in 1946, shortly before the war in Indochina began. Traveler in the Pacific
        He roamed from Truk, in the western Pacific, to Swat, a remote fastness in Pakistan. He saw World War II in the Pacific from beginning to end, witnessing amphibious landings as Allied forces pressed in on Japan and often going ashore with United States forces.
        While pinned down by Japanese gunfire on Iwo Jima, Mr. Trumbull reported by radio: "The mortar bursts marched methodically back and forth along the shoreline. Our advance is a matter of running 10 yards  [ on ]  the slithery footing of dry volcanic cinder, dropping into a hole, and then up and 10 yards to another hole."
        At the war's end, he accompanied the first Marine contingent to land in Japan and was on the deck of the battleship Missouri for the formal Japanese surrender on Sept. 1, 1945.
        He was able to write amicably about Japan a decade later, in describing a reconstructed old castle in ravaged Hiroshima. "To many Japanese, and visitors from other lands, the stately structure of five tiled roofs one above another is a symbol of a people's ability to rise over any catastrophe," he said. Violent Partition of India
        Mr. Trumbull witnessed bitterness and hatred after the partition of India. Riding a train from Delhi to Lahore, in Pakistan, he saw a group of Sikhs attack, intent on killing Muslims.
        The train, he wrote in The Times, was "halted in a lonely desert stretch by a band of screaming Sikhs with homemade spears and battle axes."
        "They attempted to break into the compartment of this correspondent and two others," he wrote, "and, failing, they entered another compartment where they speared and left for dead a fellow Indian whose crime lay in belonging to another faith."
        In 1948, Mr. Trumbull arrived on the scene as Gandhi lay dying in New Delhi, a few minutes after a Hindu fanatic had shot the revered leader.
        "Lying on a wooden cot in his bedroom, Mr. Gandhi said no word before his death except once to ask for water," he wrote. "Most of the time he was unconscious. When he was pronounced dead by his physician, weeping members of his staff covered the lower half of his face with a sheet in the Hindu fashion and the women present sat on the floor and chanted verses from the sacred scriptures of the Hindus.
        "Those who could see these ceremonies through the windows knew then that Mr. Gandhi had expired." A Start in Honolulu
        Mr. Trumbull began his career at The Times in 1941, just after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, as a part-time correspondent in Honolulu. He became a full-time correspondent in 1943.
        At the war's end, he was named the Times correspondent for Southeast Asia. In 1947, he began seven years' service in India. Later he wrote fondly, "If you stay in India long enough, a part of you never leaves."
        Mr. Trumbull went on to serve as chief of the Tokyo bureau (1954-61), chief correspondent for China and Southeast Asia, based in Hong Kong (1961-63), and head of the Tokyo bureau again (1964-68).
        He was chief of the South Pacific bureau, covering Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific islands (1968-73); chief correspondent in Canada (1974-78), and, beginning in 1978, Pacific correspondent, based in Honolulu.
        He retired in 1979, when he was the senior Times foreign correspondent.
        Over the years, Mr. Trumbull wrote several books about Asia and the Pacific. "The Raft," a best-seller published in 1942, was the tale of three United States Navy fliers who survived 34 days on a life raft in the Pacific. "The Scrutable East" (1964) won an award from the Overseas Press Club of America as the year's best book on foreign affairs.
        His other books included "Sol Pluvius's Hawaiian Communiques" (1942), "Silversides" (1945), "India Since Independence" (1954), "As I See India" (1956) and "Nine Who Survived Hiroshima and Nagasaki" (1957).
        "Paradise in Trust" (1959) analyzed the United States administration in Micronesia, and "Tin Roofs and Palm Trees" (1977) surveyed the South Pacific. "Tin Roofs," as one reviewer put it, left "few coconuts unturned all the way from Micronesia to New Caledonia, and Papua New Guinea to French Polynesia."  A Diplomatic Journalist
        Mr. Trumbull was a compact figure, 5 feet 6 1/2 inches and 110 pounds, and he had a knack for remaining unrumpled and engaging.
        The Pacific Islands Monthly magazine wrote admiringly in 1978 that his dispatches "went far beyond the superficial observations of the usual run of hit-and-miss, once-only journalists."
        Contradictions fascinated him. In 1960, during demonstrations in Tokyo against President Dwight D. Eisenhower, he noticed that a student who had kicked in the fenders of the Cadillac carrying James Hagerty, the President's press secretary, stepped on the foot of a Secret Service man.
        "He was careful to smile regretfully and say, 'Excuse me,' " he wrote.  A Native of the Midcontinent
        Robert Trumbull was born in Chicago on May 26, 1912, to Oliver Morton Trumbull and Sydney Hamilton Trumbull, theatrical troupers who were performing there. He went to school in Kittanning, Pa., 35 miles northeast of Pittsburgh, then studied journalism at the University of Washington in Seattle from 1930 to 1933.
        He joined The Honolulu Advertiser as a reporter in 1933, rising to city editor two years later, and stayed until 1943, when he became a full-time correspondent for The Times.
        Three decades later, in nominal retirement in Honolulu, he sallied forth on other assignments with equanimity.
        When Benigno S. Aquino Jr., the leader of the Philippines opposition, was assassinated in 1983, The Times asked Mr. Trumbull to rush to Manila until a correspondent could be assigned. He stayed for weeks, then moved on to Malaysia, Brunei, Burma and Indonesia for eight months.
        Mr. Trumbull was married to Jean Musson in 1934; she died in 1991.
        He is survived by three daughters, Suzanne Trumbull of Tokyo, and Joan Trumbull and Stephanie Norris, both of Sydney, Australia.
      