
        Rouben Ter-Arutunian, a prolific designer for dance, opera, theater and television, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 72 years old.
        He died of lymphoma of the brain, said Dro Proudian, a friend and the executor of his will.
        Mr. Ter-Arutunian (tair-ar-TOO-nyan) was equally at home on Broadway and with various opera, ballet and modern dance troupes, including the New York City Ballet. His most enduring designs are those he created for the New York City Ballet's Lincoln Center version of George Balanchine's "Nutcracker," an annual winter attraction at the New York State Theater. At the time of Mr. Ter-Arutunian's death, the company was making a film of "Nutcracker" with his designs.  Creating a Sumptuous Kingdom
        Mr. Ter-Arutunian first became involved with the popular Tchaikovsky classic in 1964 after the City Ballet moved from the City Center to the New York State Theater and discovered that its previous designs by Horace Armistead did not fit the large stage. Mr. Ter-Arutunian created a cozy parlor for the first act and a sumptuous Kingdom of the Sweets for the second act. He retained and expanded upon the most talked-about feature of the original production: a Christmas tree that magically seemed to grow and grow.
        A witty, elegant and erudite man, Mr. Ter-Arutunian summed up his esthetic philosophy in a 1984 interview in which he said that "stage design is an art which can transform an open, empty cube -- the stage -- into an arena of dramatic tension."
        "Because it is so immediate, the decor must instantly set the tone of what is to follow," he said. "In a sense, it must present a distillation of the play, the opera or the ballet that will momentarily unfold."
        Mr. Ter-Arutunian was born of Armenian parents in 1920 in Tiflis, Georgia. His father was a lawyer and he grew up in Paris and Berlin, where he attended elementary and secondary schools. At first, he contemplated becoming a pianist, but when he attended performances by Col. W. de Basils's Ballets Russes in 1936 and 1938, he decided upon a career as a painter and designer. He attended the Reimann Art School in Berlin from 1939 to 1941. He also studied film music at the Hochschule fur Musik in Berlin in 1943 and took courses in art, music, theater, literature and philosophy at the Friedrich-Wilhelm University in Berlin, 1941-43, and at the University of Vienna, 1943-44.
        He made his debut as a costume designer for dancers of the Berlin Staatsoper in 1940. In 1943, he designed costumes for "The Bartered Bride" at the Dresden Opera and in 1944 he designed a production of Richard Strauss's "Salome" at the Vienna State Opera in honor of the composer's 80th birthday. In 1946, Mr. Ter-Arutunian designed shows for the Special Services of the United States Third Army in Germany. He moved to Paris in 1947 and New York in 1951, becoming an American citizen in 1957.
        As a designer for CBS-TV, Mr. Ter-Arutunian devised the scenery, costumes and grotesque masks for "Noah and the Flood," a work created by Igor Stravinsky and George Balanchine for television that received its premiere in 1962. For the City Ballet, in addition to "Nutcracker," he designed such ballets by Balanchine as "Seven Deadly Sins," "Harlequinade," "Coppelia," "Union Jack," "Robert Schumann's 'Davidsbundlertanze' " and "Mozartiana." Working with modern dancers, he designed Martha Graham's "Visionary Recital" in 1961 and Glen Tetley's "Pierrot Lunaire" (1962), "Sargasso" (1965) and "Ricercare" (1966), among other productions.
        In 1956, the American Shakespeare Festival Theater invited Mr. Ter-Arutunian to design a stage for its annual productions in Stratford, Conn. This resulted in a nonproscenium platform with, on three sides, strips of lattice that could be shifted to suit the needs of each play in the company's repertory. Mr. Ter-Arutunian made his Broadway debut by designing the musical "New Girl in Town" in 1957.
        Among his other Broadway productions were "Who Was That Lady I Saw You With?," "Redhead" (for which he received a Tony Award in 1959), "Advise and Consent," "The Deputy" and "The Lady From the Sea" (the Ibsen classic in which Vanessa Redgrave made her Broadway debut in 1976).
        Mr. Ter-Arutunian collaborated on many occasions with the New York City Opera, designing such productions as Bartok's "Bluebeard's Castle," Humperdinck's "Hansel and Gretel" and Rossini's "Cenerentola." Other operatic organizations for which he worked include the San Francisco Opera, the Hamburg State Opera, La Scala in Milan, the Opera-Comique in Paris and the Spoleto Festival in Italy. In 1989, he donated 77 portfolios containing more than 7,000 of his designs to the Dance Collection of the Performing Arts Research Center at Lincoln Center.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      