
        Dr. Ernest H. Volwiler, a leader in medicinal chemistry who did groundbreaking work in anesthetics in the 1930's, died Saturday at the Westmoreland nursing home in Lake Forest, Ill. A longtime resident of nearby Highland Park, he was 99 years old.
        Dr. Volwiler spent his entire career with Abbott Laboratories, where he rose from a researcher to chairman. Assisted by Dr. Donalee Tabern, he formulated Nembutal in 1930 and, six years later, sodium Pentothal. The drugs are commonly used as the first anesthetic with which to put a patient to sleep for surgical or dental procedures.
        Duane L. Burnham, Abbott's current chairman and chief executive, said the formulation of the two drugs were breakthroughs in anesthetics medicine.
        Aside from the development of anesthetics, Dr. Volwiler also contributed to their commercial production, and in World War II he directed the production of sulfa drugs and penicillin, which are used to fight certain bacterial infections.
        Ernest Volwiler was born in Hamilton, Ohio, grew up on a farm and taught all grades in a country school to raise money for his college tuition. He graduated cum laude from Miami University of Ohio in just three years. He earned master's and doctorate degrees in chemistry at the University of Illinois.
        Wallace C. Abbott himself asked Dr. Volwiler in 1918 to join his pharmaceutical company. It was to be the young chemist's sole place of employment.
        He began as a researcher. In 1920 he became chief chemist, a post he held for 10 years. Then came three years as director of research, after which he was vice president in charge of research and development until 1946. He served as executive vice president until 1950.
        Dr. Volwiler was the company's president and general manager from 1950 to 1958, when he was elected chairman. He retired the following year.
        He was a past president and chairman of the American Chemical Society, which presented him with its highest honor, the Priestley Medal, in 1958. He was inducted into the National Inventors' Hall of Fame in 1985.
        Dr. Volwiler's wife of 71 years, the former Lillian F. Huggler, preceded him in death. He is survived by two daughters, Doris Semler of Arlington Heights, Ill., and Margery Grinnell of Edina, Minn.; a son, Wallace E. Volwiler of Morrison, Colo.; nine grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren and two great-great-grandchildren.
      