
        Sir Kenneth MacMillan, the resident choreographer and former director of the Royal Ballet, died on Thursday night backstage at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in London. He was 62 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the Royal Ballet said.
        Sir Kenneth, who devoted himself to reviving the tradition of full-evening ballet in Britain, died during a performance of his 1978 ballet "Mayer ling."
        Jeremy Isaacs, the general director of the Royal Opera House, announced the death from the stage after the performance and asked the audience to "please rise and bow your heads and leave the theater in silence."
        Sir Kenneth's death came during preparations for a Royal National Theater revival of the musical "Carousel," which he was choreographing for a Dec. 10 opening. It was unclear how his death would affect the production. Academic Purity
        Sir Kenneth was known for dramatically intense, often violent works. Yet no matter how expressionistically distorted their action may have looked, their movements derived from ballet at its most academically pure.
        He once said that the privations of World War II had influenced not only his own rather bleak artistic outlook, but also that of his generation. "We spent our earliest years surrounded by destruction and violence," he said in an interview in 1955. "The war left its mark. You must remember that the earliest years are always the most impressionable."
        Sir Kenneth was an artistic associate of American Ballet Theater from 1984 to 1990. He had been associated with the New York-based company since 1957, when it commissioned "Winter's Eve" and "Journey."
        In March, he choreographed a new ballet, "Judas Tree," for the Royal Ballet. Among his productions for the British company were "Noctambules" (1956), which concerned a sideshow hypnotist who hypnotizes his audience; "The Burrow" (1958), a story about people in hiding that reminded some dancegoers of "The Diary of Anne Frank," and "The Invitation" (1960), a ballet about the loss of innocence.
        In 1965 he choreographed an enormously successful version of Prokofiev's "Romeo and Juliet" that is also performed by Ballet Theater. In 1965 as well, he created "Song of the Earth" for the Stuttgart Ballet, a meditation on death that he restaged in 1966 for the Royal Ballet and that has become one of his most acclaimed works.  Understood the 'Dark Areas'
        At the Royal Ballet, he worked with a group of dramatic dancers sympathetic to his ideas, the most important being Lynn Seymour, who said of his works, "He has a wonderful sense of those strange dark areas of life."
        In 1966, Sir Kenneth became the ballet director of the Deutsche Oper in West Berlin. Then in 1970, he succeeded Sir Frederick Ashton as director of the Royal Ballet, a post he held until 1977, when he was appointed the company's resident choreographer. Over the years, he occasionally renewed his contacts with Ballet Theater by allowing the company to produce works he had created elsewhere.
        Among these ballets were two abstractions, "Danses Concertantes" (Stravinsky) and "Concerto" (Shostakovich), and "Las Hermanas," based on Garcia Lorca's play "The House of Bernarda Alba." Works by Sir Kenneth that have entered the company's repertory in more recent years include "The Wild Boy," "Triad," "Anastasia," "Romeo and Juliet," "Requiem" and "The Prince of the Pagodas."
        During the Royal Ballet's New York visit in 1981, Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, criticized Sir Kenneth's "Isadora," a choreographic portrait of Isadora Duncan, the pioneering American modern dancer, as "a deliberate distortion," that offered no interpretation but was "only a comic strip." But that same season, she praised "La Fin du Jour," a nostalgic tribute to an elegant way of life that was brought to an end by World War II, as "possibly Sir Kenneth MacMillan's finest ballet."
        Sir Kenneth was born in Dumferline, Scotland, on Dec. 11, 1929. He was inspired to dance by seeing Fred Astaire's movies. After studying with dance teachers in Great Yarmouth, England, where he had been sent to boarding school, he received a scholarship to the Sadler's Wells Ballet School in London and in 1946 joined the second company of the Sadler's Wells Ballet (as the Royal Ballet was known at that time). He entered the main company two years later.
        He soon developed an interest in choreography and returned to the second company, for which he created his first ballet, "Somnambulism," to jazz music by Stan Kenton, in 1953. Both the title and the accompaniment of that ballet were portents of his future development, for he was drawn to serious themes and contemporary scores.
        Sir Kenneth once said that he hoped people saw things in his works that they had experienced in their own lives. "I'm sick of fairy tales," he added. Nevertheless, he staged "The Sleeping Beauty" on several occasions, most successfully in 1987 for Ballet Theater. And he had nothing but praise for Marius Petipa, who originally choreographed that most opulent of fairy-tale ballets in 1890.
        "I'm a classicist at heart," Sir Kenneth said, and by putting classical technique to contemporary use he sought to revivify classicism.
        Sir Kenneth, who was knighted in 1983, is survived by his wife, Deborah, and a daughter, Charlotte.
      