
        James Marshall, an illustrator and author of popular children's books, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 50 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Mansfield Hollow, Conn.
        He died of a brain tumor, his family said.
        Although he had no formal art training, Mr. Marshall illustrated more than 70 books. He also wrote many of them, sometimes using the pseudonym Edward Marshall. His work, featuring cartoonish figures and whimsical plots, appealed to parents as well as children.
        He was best known for his series on George and Martha, the tons-of-fun hippopotamuses; on the mischievous exploits of Fox, a debonair, lazy showoff, and on the misadventures of the Stupid Family. He also illustrated new versions of many children's classics, including stories of Cinderella, Mother Goose, Red Riding Hood, the Three Little Pigs, and Goldilocks and the Three Bears. Comic Timing on Paper
        Three times his books were listed among the best illustrated children's books of the year by The New York Times Book Review.
        "No one around can match Mr. Marshall's witty way with words and pictures," the Book Review said in 1984. In May, the Book Review, appraising "Fox Outfoxed," which he wrote and illustrated, praised his "fine comic timing in both text and illustration" and said, "The miracle of Mr. Marshall's work is that so often his stories are as profound as they are simple."
        His Stupid household lived up to its name. Mr. Stupid dressed for a costume ball as Gen. George Washing Machine, for example, while Mrs. Stupid wore spaghetti. Once, when the lights went out at their house, the Stupids all assumed they had died. Finally Grandpa Stupid had enough of sitting in the dark and declared: "This isn't heaven. This is Cleveland."
        Mr. Marshall was born in San Antonio. He attended Trinity University there and the University of Connecticut. Interested in music, he studied viola at the Boston Conservatory of Music until nerve damage in his hand forced him to quit. He did some schoolteaching.
        His book career started by chance. Friends encouraged him to pursue his longtime hobby of sketching, and he began doing newspaper illustrations and then books. Several early books were collaborations with Harry Allard as the writer.
        He is survived by his parents, Cecille and George Marshall, and a sister, Cynthia Gardner, all of San Antonio.
      