
        Ed Blackwell, one of the most important drummers in jazz, died on Wednesday at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut. He lived in Hartford and would have been 63 years old tomorrow.
        He died of complications of renal failure, said his manager, Kunle Mwanga.
        One of jazz's great synthesists, bringing together a host of elements, Mr. Blackwell played with Ornette Colman and Ray Charles, among many others. He grew up in New Orleans, and his drumming, with its heavy reliance on the snare drum, showed the influence of parades and marches. And he thoroughly absorbed modern jazz, taking the style of Max Roach as a direction. He also studied African and other ethnic drumming techniques. One of his typical drum solos might swing hard for a moment; go into densely polymetric section with each limb moving in different time, giving the impression of a drum orchestra, and then ease into a parade rhythm. To Los Angeles and Back
        In the 1940's and early 50's, Mr. Blackwell traveled the rhythm-and-blues circuit, performing with the saxophonist Plas Johnson, and Ray Charles. In 1951, he followed New Orleans musicians, including Harold Battiste and Ellis Marsalis, to Los Angeles, where he met and performed with Mr. Coleman. In 1956, he returned to New Orleans, where he recorded with the Original American Jazz Quintette, featuring Harold Battiste on saxophone, Alvin Batiste on clarinet and Mr. Marsalis on piano.
        In 1960, he moved to New York and quickly became the regular drummer for Mr. Coleman's quartet, a position he filled on and off for nearly a decade. It was in that group, which had no piano player, that Mr. Blackwell's loose rhythms and warm textures really began to be understood. He provided exactly the sort of rambunctious but light background Mr. Coleman needed for his improvisations, full of rolling rhythms and thick tom-tom textures.
        At the same time, Mr. Blackwell performed with some of the best musicians of what was then the avant-garde, including Mr. Coleman's cohort the trumpeter Don Cherry, and with the trumpeter Booker Little, the saxophonists Eric Dolphy and Archie Shepp, and the pianists Mal Waldron and Randy Weston. An Influence on Young Musicians
        Unlike many musicians who became known in the 1960's, Mr. Blackwell's art, and his career, never faded. In 1975, he become an artist in residence at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., where he taught off and on for the rest of his life, influencing a whole movement of younger musicians. He also played and toured regularly, coming together with other members of Ornette Coleman's groups to form the band Old and New Dreams. He also performed with the tenor saxophonist David Murray's quartet. Mr. Blackwell was heard around New York with Mr. Waldron and the saxophonist Charlie Rouse, among other musicians.
        Over the last decade, he and the bassist Mark Helias constituted one of jazz's best rhythm sections, performing in various groups and under Mr. Blackwell's leadership. All this was done under great physical duress: Mr. Blackwell spent the last 20 years of his life on kidney dialysis.
        Mr. Blackwell is survived by his wife, Frances Blackwell of Hartford; two sons, Joseph, of Orlando, Fla., and Harry, of Middletown, Conn., and a daughter, Nearin, of Denver.
        Correction:  October 10, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary headline yesterday about the jazz drummer Ed Blackwell misstated his age. He was 62.
      