
        Dr. David Caplovitz, a sociologist and an authority on American spending habits and misleading sales practices, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer of the esophagus, his family said.
        Dr. Caplovitz came to public notice in 1963 when he was 35 with the publication of what had been his doctoral dissertation at Columbia University two years earlier, "The Poor Pay More" (Free Press). Its contentions sound commonplace today, but did much to advance consumer-protection legislation. 'Buy Now, Pay Later'
        A "buy now, pay later" deal, he wrote, can ensnare the poor, uneducated or illiterate with high interest rates, hidden charges and shoddy goods.
        Testifying in Washington in 1965, he described how some door-to-door salesmen and inexpensive furniture stores tricked unsuspecting -- mostly poor -- customers into signing "gimmick" contracts that required them to pay twice as much as they thought they would be paying.
        At Columbia University's Bureau of Applied Social Research, Dr. Caplovitz directed a four-year study, "Consumers in Trouble: A Study of Debtors in Default." Released in 1971, it was later published (Free Press, 1974). A main conclusion was that courts often act "as collection agents of the creditors" rather than dealing out justice in default cases.
        As a professor at City College of New York, he estimated in 1977 that the spreading habit of paying with "plastic" had put 10 million to 15 million Americans hopelessly over their heads in debt. He noticed that thousands of families were driven to credit counselors each year. "Debt entanglement is a major social problem," he said. A Survey of Spending Habits
        A three-year survey completed in 1978, "Making Ends Meet," was based on interviews that delved into everything from people's spending habits to the impact of financial strain on marriages.
        A native of New Haven, Dr. Caplovitz graduated from the University of Connecticut and, in addition to his Ph.D. from Columbia, held a law degree from City University of New York Law School at Queens College. He retired as a professor of sociology in February 1991 from City University of New York's Graduate School and University Center.
        Since then and until his death, he did legal work for the Budget and Credit Counseling Service in Manhattan, representing indebted consumers. The organization's president, Luther R. Gatling, said yesterday that he was prompted by Dr. Caplovitz's writing to establish the service.
        Dr. Caplovitz is survived by a daughter, Abigail of Groton, Conn.; a son, Gideon of Santa Cruz, Calif., and two brothers, Robert Caplow of New Haven, and Alvin Caplow of New York City.
      