
        Manuel Antonio de Varona, a former Prime Minister of Cuba and a leading foe of Fidel Castro's Government, died on Thursday at his home in Miami. He was 83 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said without giving further details.
        First arrested in a student protest at the age of 15, Mr. de Varona was involved in a series of revolutionary movements before joining the fight against Mr. Castro in the 1950's.
        He was born on Nov. 25, 1908, into a middle-class family in Camaguey, Cuba. He attended a local school and became politically active, demonstrating against the Government. Protest, Jail and Exile
        When he was 22, he founded the Student Revolutionary Directorate and began a cycle of protest, jail and exile that would continue for two decades. He was imprisoned twice and exiled twice for being part of the campaign to oust the dictatorship of Gerardo Machado, who was overthrown in 1933.
        He led a general strike to protest the first Government of Fulgencio Batista and was again imprisoned and exiled.
        During the democratic interlude that followed Batista's fall, Mr. de Varona served in a succession of elected and appointed posts, including Prime Minister under President Carlos Prio Socarras from 1948 to 1950 and Senate President from 1950 to 1952.
        When Batista returned to power, Mr. de Varona opposed him again and was jailed and exiled again.
        He joined with the forces that eventually overturned Batista but was soon disillusioned by the dictatorial methods and Communist ideology of Cuba's new chief, Mr. Castro.
        Among the first politicians to break with Mr. Castro, Mr. de Varona organized resistance efforts and published a newspaper, National Opinion.
        From exile he served as a top military planner in the ill-fated Bay of Pigs invasion of 1961, which was intended to bring about Mr. Castro's ouster.
        Most of his exile years were spent in the United States. In the 1960's and 1970's he lived in New York City and supported himself as a Chevrolet salesman in Union City, N.J., and a language instructor for Berlitz.
        His first two marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 27 years, the former Olivia Borges; a son, Carlos, of Miami; two daughters, Lina del Rio of San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Yvonne Smit of Miami; six grandchildren; a brother, Luis, and two sisters, Ofelia and Esther de Varona, all of Miami.
      