
        Dr. William T. Foley, a cardiovascular specialist who treated Joseph P. Kennedy and the royal family of Sikkim, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his brother-in-law John Cady said yesterday.
        Dr. Foley had been on the staff of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center since 1946. He was chief of its vascular clinic and clinical professor of medicine from 1984 through 1989. An endowed chair was established in his name in 1988. He also maintained a private practice in Manhattan. Prison-Camp Medical Hero
        Dr. Foley began seeing members of the royal family of Sikkim in 1963. It was then an independent kingdom and is now an Indian state. Several times, he made the 8,000-mile trip to treat the late Maharaja Sir Tashi Namgyal and his son, the late Palden Thondup Namgyal, the last two rulers of Sikkim.
        Dr. Foley was also part of a team of physicians that saw Joseph P. Kennedy, the father of President John F. Kennedy, after he suffered a stroke in 1961.
        A native of New York City, Dr. Foley received his medical degree from Cornell University in 1937. He then traveled to China, where he established the Fong Pin Hospital in Canton several years later.
        At the start of World War II, while working in China as a doctor in the United States Navy, Dr. Foley was captured by the Japanese. He spent four years in prison camps in China, Korea and Japan. He was later awarded the Distinguished Service Medal and the Bronze Star for his work at one camp, in which he performed 160 emergency medical surgery operations.
        While in China, Dr. Foley was one of the last people to see the first discovered fossil bones of Peking Man, the remains of a species of man that were found in northern China and were believed to date back more than 400,000 years. The bones, which were discovered in 1925, were in his footlocker in Peking when he was captured, and no one knows what happened to them. He spent many years aiding an unsuccessful effort to find them.
        Dr. Foley's two marriages ended in divorce. He was married to Barbara Ball Foley Cosden and Regula von Muralt Foley, both of Manhattan.
        He is survived by four daughters, Carolyn Foley of Manahattan, Claire Foley of Houston, Lucy Foley of Cambodia and Laura Sharff of Brooklyn; two sisters, Margaret Foley Cady of Bronxville, N.Y., and Mary Foley Carew of Venice, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      