
        Dr. David T. Purtilo, a specialist in disorders of the immune system and chairman of the pathology-microbiology department at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, died Monday at the Naples, Fla., Community Center. He was 53 years old.
        Dr. Purtilo, who lived in Omaha, was in Naples to deliver a scientific paper before the American Association for Cancer Research when he suffered a stroke, the university medical center said. He had been a professor there since 1981.
        He was noted for having discovered X-linked lymphoproliferative disease, or XLP. Males with XLP inherit a mutant gene in the X chromosome, leaving them incapable of withstanding the Epstein-Barr virus, which is linked to infectious mononucleosis.
        About 85 percent of those with XLP die by the age of 10, the Nebraska medical center said, and all die by the time they reach 40. Seeking Cures for Lymphomas
        Dr. Sam Cohen, vice chairman of the department that Dr. Purtilo headed, said that since Dr. Purtilo's discovery in the 1970's, researchers had come close to identifying the gene involved in the disease. "Hopefully, that will lead us to the cure of this disease, as well as a better understanding of cures for lymphomas," he said.
        Dr. Purtilo was born in Duluth, Minn., and received his bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota. He received a master's degree from the University of North Dakota and, in 1967, his doctorate from Northwestern University.
        He was a major at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington before joining the faculty of the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester. He was named a professor of pathology and pediatrics in 1978.
        He wrote nearly 300 scientific papers and six textbooks.
        Dr. Purtilo is survived by his wife, Sandra; their daughter, Tara; his mother, Sadie Purtilo of Duluth; a brother, Dr. Duane Purtilo of Rockford, Minn., and a sister, Diane Fremling, also of Duluth.
      