
        Howard W. Lipman, an art collector and a former chairman of the Whitney Museum of American Art, died on Sunday at his home in Carefree, Ariz., his son announced yesterday. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Lipman had a series of small strokes in recent months and was generally in declining health, said his son, Dr. Peter Lipman, a geologist.
        Mr. Lipman, a former managing partner of Neuberger & Berman, a Manhattan-based securities firm, was a trustee of the Whitney from 1968 until his death. He was its chairman from 1977 to 1985 and served as its unpaid president from 1974 to 1977. On Donating Works
        He was also an important donor of art to the Whitney. In 1980 in The New York Times, Hilton Kramer reviewed the museum's show "American Sculpture: Gifts of Howard and Jean Lipman" and wrote: "Few collectors of contemporary American art have shown an enthusiasm greater than that of Howard and Jean Lipman when it came to acquiring works of modernist sculpture.
        "Almost nothing, it often seemed, has been too 'difficult' or audacious for them to embrace with their customary equanimity, and this is all the more remarkable when we recall that in the years that Mr. and Mrs. Lipman have been energetically acquiring new sculpture -- roughly, the last quarter-century -- this medium has undergone some very radical changes indeed. The Lipmans have been especially drawn to them."
        The Lipmans' gifts included works by Jasper Johns, Alexander Calder, Robert Morris and Robert Smithson.  Collection of Folk Art
        In four decades, Mr. and Mrs. Lipman built up a collection of folk art. They sold part of it for $1 million in 1981 to the Museum of American Folk Art in Manhattan. The museum kept 32 works and sold the remaining 413 works at auction that year for a total of $911,000. Other works of folk art the Lipmans collected went to the New York State Historical Association at Cooperstown, N.Y.
        Jean Lipman was the editor of the magazine Art in America from 1940 to 1970 and was later in charge of the museum's publications. She also became known for her own writing, especially on folk art, and for her own painting.
        In addition to his son, of Portola Valley, Calif., and his wife, Mr. Lipman is survived by two grandsons.
      