
        Denholm Elliott, an award-winning supporting actor who gained a reputation as an accomplished scene-stealer in the course of his 47-year career in theater, films and television, died on Tuesday at his home in Ibiza, Spain. He was 70 years old.
        He died of AIDS-related tuberculosis, said his agent, Jean Diamond. She did not say how he became infected with the AIDS virus.
        Arching an eyebrow or curling a lip at just the right moment, Mr. Elliott established himself as a memorable character actor. His talent inspired an affectionate adage in British theater: "Never act with children, dogs or Denholm Elliott."
        Although he lamented his failure to land more leading roles, he relished the ones he had. "I'm often given parts that aren't as big as they are colorful, but people remember them," he once said. "When it's a minor or supporting role, you learn to make the most of what you're given. I can make two lines seem like 'Hamlet'."
        Mr. Elliott won British Academy Awards for his parts in the films "A Private Function" in 1984 and "Trading Places" in 1982. He was nominated for an Oscar for his role as an emotive father in the popular and critically acclaimed film adaptation of E. M. Forster's "Room With a View" in 1986. He also won honors on the stage and in television. He was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1988.
        His work ranged from Shakespearean classics to modern comedy. In "Trading Places," he played the ever-proper valet to the comic co-stars, Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd. His directors included David Lean, Laurence Olivier, Steven Spielberg, James Ivory and Woody Allen.
        Among Mr. Elliott's approximately 80 films were "Breaking the Sound Barrier," "The Cruel Sea," "King Rat," "Defense of the Realm," "Nothing but the Best," "Maurice," "The Night They Raided Minsky's," "The Boys From Brazil," "Voyage of the Damned" and "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade." His last film was "Noises Off," released this year.
        His career flourished with age. Many of his characters were alcoholics, mirroring his own bouts with drinking. He played a dissolute director in "The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz" in 1974 and a back-alley abortionist in "Alfie" in 1966.
        Mr. Elliott was born in London and was educated at Malvern College in England. He began studying at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London but dropped out.
        World War II proved a blessing in disguise to his career as he honed his acting skills for three years in a German prisoner-of-war camp. A radio operator and gunner in the Royal Air Force, he was captured after his plane crashed into the sea in 1942. To pass the time, he organized fellow prisoners as the No Name Players, built a makeshift stage and produced plays, using scripts supplied by the Red Cross.
        Within days of being freed and discharged at the end of the war, he joined a stock theater company and got a part in a play. Soon he caught the eye of Laurence Olivier, and before long he made his debut on the London and New York stages, winning critical praise and prizes on both sides of the Atlantic.
        Mr. Elliott's first marriage, to Virginia McKenna, an actress, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Susan Robinson, an actress; a son, Mark, and a daughter, Jennifer.
      