
        Harry Williamson, a celebrated World War II double agent for Britain who was so successful that he won Hitler's Iron Cross award, died on Monday at a hospital in Watford, England, where he lived. He was 80 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        His wartime exploits earned a chapter in Nigel West's 1991 book "Seven Spies Who Changed the World." It quotes an expert saying that Mr. Williamson "was to the end regarded by the Germans as a pearl among agents."
        He was a faux pearl, born in Germany of Danish parentage with the name Wulf Schmidt. After working on an Argentine cattle ranch and a banana plantation in the Cameroons, he answered an ad for people who could speak foreign languages. He was promptly recruited as a German spy and volunteered for a short assignment in England. Mission to Cambridgeshire
        On that mission, he parachuted into Cambridgeshire on Sept. 20, 1940, shortly after midnight. He sprained an ankle landing, buried his parachute and went for breakfast at a cafe.
        As a suspicious stranger with an accent, he was seized within hours. He carried a pistol and a forged identification as Harry Williamson. Soon he realized that he was ill-prepared and misinformed. For example, the Germans' description of mass bombing destruction, chaos and food shortages in London proved to be false.
        Fears of torture by his captors were not borne out, although he was placed in solitary confinement and faced interrogation while standing naked in front of a female stenographer.
        Before long, he confessed to being a spy and agreed to file carefully scripted intelligence reports to Germany to mislead enemy forces. Tate became his code name, because he resembled Harry Tate, a music hall comic. More Than 1,000 Messages
        For nearly five years, until Allied troops entered Hamburg. he transmitted more than 1,000 encoded radio messages, more than from any other agent in England.
        Once he followed instructions to wear a red tie and carry a newspaper and book to Victoria Station, get on the No. 16 bus at 4 P.M. and get off at the fifth stop with a Japanese passenger, who slipped him another newspaper concealing 200 pounds. Surveillance identified the courier as a naval attache at the Japanese Embassy.
        Like other agents converted by Britain, Mr. Williamson was in constant danger of being uncovered by the Germans -- and also of being tried by eager English prosecutors, who succeeded in executing some spies.
      