
       Dick Wellstood, one of the younger jazzmen who kept the traditions alive in the years after World War II, died of heart failure Friday in Palo Alto, Calif., where he went to attend the Peninsula Jazz Party. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dick Wellstood, one of the younger jazzmen who kept the traditions alive in the years after World War II, died of heart failure Friday in Palo Alto, Calif., where he went to attend the Peninsula Jazz Party. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Wellstood was highly regarded as a modern-day exponent of the stride- piano style - a boisterous, exuberant style rooted in early jazz, a form whose earliest practitioners included James P. Johnson, a pianist and composer, and his disciple, Fats Waller. Although running the gamut from ragtime to Dixieland to pop, Mr. Wellstood often adapted those forms to stride piano.
        Mr. Wellstood was a regular at the Newport and JVC Jazz Festivals. He was associated for many years with Kenny Davern, the clarinetist who was with him Friday in Palo Alto, and Dick Hyman, the pianist, with whom he performed last Tuesday at the ''Jazz in July'' series at the 92d Street Y. #6 Years at Hanratty's From 1979 until last year, Mr. Wellstood performed at Hanratty's on Second Avenue, near 92d Street, and early this month he opened his second summer engagement at Bemelman's, the lounge at the Carlyle Hotel, at Madison Avenue and 76th Street.
        Mr. Wellstood was born in Greenwich, Conn. He studied the piano in Boston and New York and made his professional debut in 1946 at Jimmy Ryan's, on what was once a haven for jazz in Manhattan, 52d Street, then known as Swing Street. He also appeared at Eddie Condon's and played with Sidney Bechet in the late 40's.
        During those years, Mr. Wellstood played the piano to pay his way through college. He later worked his way through the Columbia University Law School, from which he graduated in 1958.
        Mr. Wellstood played with the Gene Krupa Quartet. When Mr. Krupa first retired in 1967, Mr. Wellstood joined a group that played clubs along the Jersey Shore, a group known variously as the Fifth Avenue Four, Can of Worms and Dick Wellstood's Hot Potatoes. Work at Law Firm
        In 1985, a slow summer for him, Mr. Wellstood decided to put his law degree to use. He spent 10 months with a law firm and returned to Hanratty's.
        ''The firm liked my work, and I could have stayed there,'' he said. ''But I realized that all those years in music had ruined me for something like the law.''
        John S. Wilson, a music critic of The New York Times, noted that despite the layoff, ''Mr. Wellstood's stride piano-playing was as energetic and virtuosic as ever.''
        Survivors include his wife, Diane McClumpha Wellstood, and four daughters by a previous marriage.
      