
       Dr. Carlton Fredericks, a well-known radio commentator and writer on nutrition and health, died of a heart attack Tuesday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 76 years old and lived in New City, N.Y.
        Dr. Carlton Fredericks, a well-known radio commentator and writer on nutrition and health, died of a heart attack Tuesday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 76 years old and lived in New City, N.Y.
        Dr. Fredericks arrived at the hospital's emergency room in an ambulance and was admitted to the intensive care unit where he died, according to a hospital spokesman, Joan Tarangioli.
        Dr. Fredericks's voice, with its crisp diction and authoritative delivery, was familiar to radio listeners for nearly half a century. He had been a radio host at WOR in New York City since 1957. His nutrition advice call-in program, ''Design for Living,'' was broadcast six days a week by the station and was also syndicated.
        One of his frequent messages to listeners was that they needed vitamin and mineral supplements because modern food-processing methods diminished natural nutrients. Battle With Regulatory Agencies
        In a news release announcing his death, WOR called him a nationally recognized expert on public health who was noted for ''his innovative, sometimes controversial advocacy of nutrition therapy for common medical disorders.''
        In the 1950's and 1960's, Dr. Fredericks had a prolonged battle with Government regulatory agencies over his nutritional theories. The Federal Food and Drug Administration in 1961 seized copies of his diet book ''Eat, Live and Be Merry,'' contending that the book violated Federal law banning false labeling. The agency said the book had recommended treating ailments ranging from peptic ulcers to cancer with vitamin and mineral supplements that were ''not effective.''
        Several years later, the Federal Trade Commission accused him of false advertising in the selling of tape-recorded programs, books and pamphlets on nutrition, but the charges were dropped.
        Appearing before a Senate subcommittee in 1965, Dr. Fredericks complained that regulatory agencies were carrying on a relentless effort to ''suppress'' his broadcasts.
        He told the subcommittee he had pleaded guilty to a 1945 charge in New York City of practicing medicine without a license because he did not want to stand trial and risk the loss of radio clients.
        Dr. Fredericks was born Harold Carlton Caplan in Brooklyn in 1910 and grew up in the Flatbush section. He changed his name to Carlton Fredericks at the start of his radio career.
        He graduated from the University of Alabama in 1931 and received a master's degree and a doctorate, both in public health education, from New York University.
        He was a former associate professor of public health at Fairleigh Dickinson University and lectured at a number of other colleges in the region.
        In an interview some years ago, Dr. Fredericks traced his interest in nutrition to a job he had with a chemical company in upstate New York, infecting guinea pigs with staphylococcus bacteria and then treating them with a germicide.
        One cage full of guinea pigs, he said, failed to recover and, looking for a variable, he found that a helper was skimping on feeding that particular cage in his eagerness to leave work and meet his sweetheart.
        ''The incident focused my attention on nutrition,'' he said.
        His books included ''Breast Cancer: A Nutritional Approach'' and ''Psychonutrition.''
        He is survived by his wife, Betty; two sons, Dana and Spencer, and two daughters, Alice Fredericks and Rhonda Perrett.
        Correction:  August 22, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        Copies of the book, ''Eat, Live and Be Merry,'' were in sales kits for vitamins and minerals seized in 1961 by the agency at the Century Food Company, Varna, Ill.. The agency contended that the book was used to make false claims of the medical value of vitamins and food supplements. A judge deciding issues in the case said there was no allegation by the Government that Dr. Fredericks had authorized the company's use of his book.
      