
       Howard McGhee, a trumpeter and composer and one of the pioneers of modern jazz, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 years old.
        Howard McGhee, a trumpeter and composer and one of the pioneers of modern jazz, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. McGhee, known to many musicians as Maggie, was born in Tulsa, Okla., in 1918. The family moved to Detroit in his infancy, and he took up the trumpet while growing up there. In 1941 he joined Lionel Hampton's band and rapidly made a name for himself in the jazz world as a bravura soloist. In the next few years he was featured with the orchestras of Andy Kirk, Charlie Barnet, Billy Eckstine and Count Basie.
        He was in Los Angeles in 1945 when Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie brought the first be-bop band to the West Coast. Mr. McGhee befriended Mr. Parker, who stayed at his apartment after Mr. Gillespie and the rest of the band returned to New York. The trumpeter played on several of the groundbreaking records Mr. Parker made for the Dial label, and made important Dial recordings with his own groups.
        Mr. McGhee had the big, brassy tone and expansive melodic imagination of the great swing-era trumpeters. But his rhythmic fluidity and advanced harmonic thinking helped him become one of the first important big-band soloists to master be-bop's intricacies. He recorded a number of classic performances with the leading modernists, including ''Boperation,'' a blazing trumpet battle with Fats Navarro on the Blue Note label. A Tour of the Pacific
        In the late 1940's and early 50's, Mr. McGhee led his own small groups and, briefly, a big band. He toured the Pacific, Japan and South Korea with a group led by Oscar Pettiford, and appeared on innovative Afro-Cuban jazz recordings with Machito's orchestra.
        He was inactive during parts of the 50's, but enjoyed a resurgence in the early 60's, when he made several of his most impressive recordings, including a quartet date with the pianist Phineas Newborn Jr. In the late 60's and early 70's, he led a crackling big band in New York City, playing his own compositions and arrangements. In recent years he was active in the Jazz Vespers series at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in Manhattan.
        Mr. McGhee is survived by his wife, Tina, his sons, Howard and David, and his daughters, Dru Ann and Joylin.
        A memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street, next Friday at 6:30 P.M.
      