
       Murray Putzer, a 65-year-old stroke victim whose feeding tube was withdrawn 10 days ago at his insistence, died Thursday afternoon at his home in West Caldwell, N.J., the family's lawyer disclosed yesterday.
        Murray Putzer, a 65-year-old stroke victim whose feeding tube was withdrawn 10 days ago at his insistence, died Thursday afternoon at his home in West Caldwell, N.J., the family's lawyer disclosed yesterday.
        An article in Friday's editions of The New York Times described Mr. Putzer's ordeal but did not say he had died the previous day. James B. Boskey, a lawyer for the Putzer family, said he had withheld news of the patient's death because the family wanted to keep the funeral a private occasion.
        Family members were concerned that publicity about Mr. Putzer's death might draw to the funeral protesters who objected to patients choosing death.
        ''I was directed by the family not to release the information about his death until after the funeral,'' the lawyer said. ''That directive was given to everybody universally who knew about the death.'' Military Funeral Held
        A military funeral was held yesterday morning for Mr. Putzer at Beth Israel Cemetery in Woodbridge, N.J. He was a 1946 graduate of West Point and a former Army captain.
        Mr. Putzer is believed to have been the first patient to receive legal permission to die since a significant New Jersey Supreme Court ruling last month.
        The court ruled then that patients whose bodily functions had been destroyed by disease but who remained mentally competent could decide voluntarily to end medical treatment. The court also held that family members who helped them carry out such a decision ''in good faith'' could not be held criminally liable for the death.
        On July 9, in the wake of this decision, Judge Harry A. Margolis of Superior Court in Essex County ruled that Mr. Putzer could have his feeding tube removed.
        The next day Mr. Putzer's wife of 29 years, Dolores, removed a nutritional drip tube connected to his stomach. Euthanasia Wish Conveyed
        Mr. Putzer, a laser optics engineer who helped design altimeters used in supersonic aircraft and in space missions, suffered a stroke three and a half years ago. Other than blinking his eyes or slightly nodding his head, he could not perform physical functions.
        When Mr. Putzer recovered consciousness after his stroke, according to Mr. Boskey, he signaled his wish to die by spelling out ''euthanasia'' with nods of the head in responses to letters of the alphabet that a doctor flashed before him. Mr. Putzer also communicated the same wish to his wife and children and to Judge Margolis.
        He remained mentally keen after the feeding tube was removed. He even watched the Iran-contra hearings on television, making disapproving faces at the interrogators of Lieut. Col. Oliver L. North.
        Mr. Putzer, who was born in Brooklyn, served with the United States armed forces that occupied Japan after World War II. Later he was an Army teacher at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts and also spent time in Korea helping that country establish a telephone system.
        When he died Thursday at 3:30 P.M., Mrs. Putzer and their daughter, Helene, 22, were at his bedside.
        ''It was just peaceful and a fade out,'' Mr. Boskey said.  Mr. Putzer also leaves a son, Michael, 33; another daughter, Janet, 27; two brothers, Max and Harold, and two grandchildren.
      