
       Michael Bennett, the most influential theater director and choreographer of his generation and the creator of ''A Chorus Line,'' the longest-running show in Broadway history, died yesterday morning at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 44 years old and had been suffering from lymphoma, a form of cancer, as a result of AIDS, his attorney, John Breglio, said yesterday.
        Michael Bennett, the most influential theater director and choreographer of his generation and the creator of ''A Chorus Line,'' the longest-running show in Broadway history, died yesterday morning at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 44 years old and had been suffering from lymphoma, a form of cancer, as a result of AIDS, his attorney, John Breglio, said yesterday.
        At an emotional reunion outside the Shubert Theater before last night's performance, members of the team that brought ''A Chorus Line'' to the stage gathered in a clutch of tearful embraces.
        Meeting privately with the company in the theater's auditorium, the entire group sang the song ''One,'' a song from the show. in an emotional tribute to Mr. Bennett.
        It was an emotional tribute to an artist who, through such shows as ''Company,'' ''Follies,'' ''Dreamgirls'' and ''A Chorus Line,'' left an indelible imprint on the comtemporary Broadway musical.
        Earlier in the day at the Public Theater, where ''A Chorus Line'' opened over 12 years ago, Mr. Papp said that when Mr. Bennett worked in the theater, ''he was a supreme being.''
        ''He understood the stage like no one else,'' Mr. Papp said. Contributions to the Theater
        That sentiment was echoed by Mr. Jacobs, who, like Mr. Papp, was a longtime friend and colleague of the director. ''I think Michael contributed more to the American theater in his short life than other artists who had lived far longer,'' Mr. Jacobs said.
        Mr. Bennett's death came four days after his landmark 1981 show, ''Dreamgirls,'' returned to Broadway in a stripped-down version that was almost as highly acclaimed as the original.
        A compact, slightly built man who rarely stopped moving and never ceased pouring out ideas, Mr. Bennett was a prolific and indefatigable creator of dazzling stage images. In a career that spanned more than two decades, he continually set the standards against which other new shows were judged. From the 1966 ''A Joyful Noise'' through the December 1981 opening of ''Dreamgirls,'' he received Tony Award nominations for every musical with which he was associated, and won eight.
        Mr. Bennett was a former chorus dancer, and that was arguably the most profound influence on his work as a choreographer and director. He found a permanent place in musical-theater history when ''Chorus Line'' -an affectionate look at the lives of a group of chorus dancers, or ''gypsies'' - opened at the Newman in May 1975 and moved to Broadway the following July. That show was one of many that revealed Mr. Bennett's love of show business and the people associated with it.
        ''I think I am now the king of backstage musicals, and you know what? I like it,'' Mr. Bennett told The New York Times in 1983. ''I hate being typecast, but I realize people are happier when I'm doing backstage musicals, and the truth is, I am, too.''
        Mr. Bennett's talent emerged in the 1970's, first in his collaborations with Hal Prince and then on his own as director, choreographer and producer. The dances in ''Company,'' ''Follies,'' ''A Chorus Line,'' ''Ballroom'' and ''Dreamgirls'' flowed seamlessly from the action of the plays and the motivations of their characters, and that seamlessness identified them as Mr. Bennett's unique creations. Dance Lessons at 3
        Mr. Bennett, whose original name was Michael Bennett DiFiglia, was born on April 8, 1943, in Buffalo, the son of a machinist and a secretary. He started dance lessons at the age of 3 and by 12, he was versed in tap, ballet, modern and folk dancing. Just before he was to have been graduated from Buffalo's Hutchison Central High School for Boys, he joined a company of ''West Side Story'' directed by Jerome Robbins (who had staged the Broadway production) and spent a year in Europe with the show.
        When the tour ended, Mr. Bennett came to New York City where, beginning in 1961, he danced in the choruses of ''Subways Are for Sleeping,'' ''Here's Love'' and ''Bajour.'' In 1967 and 1968 he assisted, without attribution, in choreographing ''How Now, Dow Jones'' on Broadway and ''Your Own Thing'' and ''By Jupiter'' Off Broadway.
        Mr. Bennett's debut as sole choreographer was ''A Joyful Noise,'' which opened Dec. 15, 1966, at the Mark Hellinger and closed after 12 performances. ''Henry, Sweet Henry,'' a musical based on the film ''The World of Henry Orient,'' opened Oct. 23, 1967, and also was a failure, but it earned Mr. Bennett his second Tony nomination.
        His commercial luck changed with Neil Simon's ''Promises, Promises,'' a musical based on Billy Wilder's film ''The Apartment.'' The show opened Dec. 1, 1968, and ran through June 26, 1971; it was Mr. Bennett's first hit and third Tony nomination. It was also the occasion for his first work with Donna McKechnie, a dancer he would later call ''my favorite instrument,'' and to whom he would be briefly married.
        In December 1969, Mr. Bennett choreographed Andre Previn and Alan Jay Lerner's musical ''Coco,'' in which Katharine Hepburn starred as the fashion designer Coco Chanel. The show opened with what was, at the time, the largest advance sale in Broadway history, ran more than 300 performances and earned Mr. Bennett another Tony nomination. However, it, too, was a commercial failure. 'Company' Breakthrough
        Mr. Bennett rarely stepped back to reflect. By the time ''Coco'' opened, he was collaborating with Mr. Prince on Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's ''Company,'' perhaps the signature musical of the ''Me Decade.'' The show opened April 26, 1970.
        ''What I did in 'Company' was to choreograph the characters,'' Mr. Bennett later recalled. ''I think that a lot more of the show was choreographed than most people who saw it realized. I believe that one of the best things I've ever done was the opening number, the 'Company' number. It was heightened reality. . . . I don't think anyone has demanded of nondancers as much movement as I did in 'Company.' '' The show earned him his fifth Tony nomination.
        A year later, Mr. Bennett won his first two Tony Awards, as choreographer and co-director, with Mr. Prince, of Mr. Sondheim and James Goldman's ''Follies,'' which opened on April 4, 1971. ''Follies'' - a modernist's homage to the Ziegfeld era - was the first of the backstage musicals with which Mr. Bennett would inextricably be identified and which would find its apotheosis in ''A Chorus Line.'' ''Follies'' ran for over a year and cultivated a strong following; nonetheless, it was a commercial failure. A rewritten version of the show is to open this month in London, under the direction of Bob Avian, Mr. Bennett's longtime assistant.
        Mr. Bennett established Plum Productions to run his business interests, and in 1971 directed a nonmusical play, George Furth's ''Twigs,'' with Sada Thompson. One of Broadway's most sought-after show doctors, he took over the Cy Coleman-Dorothy Fields musical ''Seesaw,'' and changed every element from the choreography to the sets, costumes and lighting. The show opened March 18, 1973, and won for Mr. Bennett his second choreography Tony and made a tap-dance star of Tommy Tune, who won a Tony as well. That was followed by Mr. Bennett's second nonmusical, ''God's Favorite,'' Neil Simon's play based on the biblical Book of Job, which opened in December 1974 and ran three months. A 'Singular Sensation'
        Having worked nearly nonstop for more than a decade, Mr. Bennett realized that his days as a dancer seemed to have ended before he'd known it.
        In January 1974, he held a late-night session with a group of dancers with whom he had worked, talking about the joys and the humiliations of being a Broadway gypsy. Discerning in that conversation the seed of a show about Broadway's least-heralded and most overworked journeymen, he persuaded Mr. Papp to finance a workshop to develop the material. Mr. Bennett hired Marvin Hamlisch to compose the music, Ed Kleban to write the lyrics and James Kirkwood and Nicholas Dante to write the book.
        After two five-week workshops at Mr. Papp's Public Theater, the show, ''A Chorus Line,'' inaugurated the 299-seat Newman Theater on May 21, 1975, and moved to the Shubert Theater on Broadway on July 25, 1975. The show won nine Tony Awards, including best direction and choreography for Mr. Bennett and best musical, as well as the Pulitzer Prize, which Mr. Bennett shared, and the New York Drama Critics Circle award.
        ''A Chorus Line'' was a perfect synthesis of the heart-on-its-sleeve backstage shows of the 1930's and the cerebral concept musicals of the 70's. The final number, ''One,'' became Mr. Bennett's signature: a company of disparate individuals emerged a triumphant whole - the ''singular sensation'' of a glittering chorus line with top hats and canes. The number underscored the clarity with which the audience had come to know the chorus line's individual members - an achievement that tellingly distinguished Mr. Bennett from colleagues such as Bob Fosse and Mr. Tune.
        ''Restless orchestration, expletives over music whenever a misstep occurs, linked bodies cross-kicking forward as rhythms climb to crescendo, all give the sense of a word, a sung note a sprung dance, an entire show being born on the spot, taking shape as we watch,'' Walter Kerr wrote in The Times. ''Mr. Bennett has actually developed 'A Chorus Line' out of six months' improvisation, teasing its myriad pieces into an ultimately miraculous pattern. The accomplishment is brilliant.'' Longest-Running Show
        On Dec. 4, 1976, Mr. Bennett married Miss McKechnie, who had also won a Tony Award for her performance as Cassie in ''A Chorus Line.'' The marriage, if not the friendship, dissolved within months. Miss McKechnie returned several times to the Broadway cast.
        With its 3,389th performance, on Sept. 29, 1983, ''A Chorus Line'' became the longest running show in Broadway history, eclipsing ''Grease.'' The event was marked by a black-tie celebration in Shubert Alley, adjacent to the Shubert Theater, followed by a late-night performance that culminated with 332 dancers from the Broadway, national and international companies coming on stage for ''One.''
        Late in 1977, using the profits from ''A Chorus Line,'' Mr. Bennett bought an eight-story building at 890 Broadway, between 19th and 20th Streets. In addition to building a suite of spacious offices for his own use, he converted several floors into the most desired theater rehearsal studios in the city. Mr. Bennett thought of the studios -open, airy, sunlit, with comfortable greenrooms and showers for actors -as his gift to the community that had brought him artistic success and great fame. Eventually, he added a theater and a restaurant. In October 1986, Mr. Bennett sold the building to several of the dance companies housed there.
        Mr. Bennett envisioned 890 Broadway as a place in which all the elements he needed to create musicals could be assembled. In the studios there, he produced, directed and choreographed ''Ballroom,'' which opened Dec. 14, 1978, his first new show after ''A Chorus Line.'' The show proved to be a major disappointment, failing to win critical or popular acclaim (though he and Mr. Avian won Tony Awards for the choreography).
        ''I always thought I was prepared for success,'' Mr. Bennett said in an interview in The Times in October 1981. ''No one is. And to be built up as high as I was with 'Chorus Line,' and then to do 'Ballroom.' Well, it's very interesting when you fall off that pedestal.'' Backstage With 'Dreamgirls'
        But Mr. Bennett's next show, ''Dreamgirls,'' proved to be as electrifying to an increasingly moribund Broadway as ''A Chorus Line'' had been six years earlier.
        ''When Broadway history is being made, you can feel it,'' Frank Rich, chief theater critic for The Times, wrote in his opening-night review. ''What you feel is a seismic jolt that sends the audience, as one, right out of its wits. While such moments are uncommonly rare these days, I'm here to report that one popped up at the Imperial last night. Broadway history was made at the end of Michael Bennett's beautiful and heartbreaking new musical, 'Dreamgirls.' ''
        ''Mr. Bennett has long been Mr. Robbins's heir apparent, as he has demonstrated in two previous 'Gypsy'-like backstage musicals, 'Follies' (which he staged with Harold Prince) and 'A Chorus Line.' But last night the torch was passed, firmly, unquestionably, once and for all.'' Mr. Bennett shared the choreography Tony, his eighth, with Michael Peters.
        In 1984, he began work on ''Scandal,'' with a book by Treva Silverman and songs by Jimmy Webb. After a year and four workshops, Mr. Bennett shocked the company and the theater community when he canceled the show, later insisting that the workshops had demonstrated to him that the show would not work. Reflecting on that experience recently, and on the demise of the workshop system he had created, he said his own celebrity had partly sabotaged the privileged workshop setting. ''I never got the pleasure working on a show that I had in 'Chorus Line,' '' he told The Times. ''Every 10 years we find a new way to do shows. So now we'll find another.'' Theater Hall of Fame
        ''Scandal'' was the last show of his own devising that Mr. Bennett would work on. As show doctor, he had contributed to Mr. Tune's production of the Gershwin musical ''My One and Only'' and James Lapine's production of Mr. Sondheim's ''Sunday in the Park With George,'' among others. In April 1986, Mr. Bennett was elected to the Theater Hall of Fame.
        In late 1985, he began casting the British production of the Tim Rice-Benny Andersson-Bjorn Ulvaeus musical ''Chess.'' Mr. Bennett had become involved with the show through the Shubert Organization and its president, Mr. Jacobs, to whom he had been close since the early 1970's. In January 1986, Mr. Bennett withdrew from ''Chess,'' giving the first public indication that he was ill. During the next year and a half, he withheld the nature of his illness from all but his closest associates, telling others that he had a heart ailment. ''Chess'' was taken over by Trevor Nunn.
        Mr. Bennett is survived by his mother, Helen, of Buffalo and a brother, Frank, a theatrical stage manager who lives in Manhattan.
        A memorial service will be held at noon on July 27 at the Shubert Theater.
        The lights of Broadway theaters were dimmed briefly last night at 8 P.M. in memory of Mr. Bennett.
      