
       Charles E. Eble, a retired chairman and chief executive officer of the Consolidated Edison Company, died of complications of diabetes Tuesday at Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Greenfield Center, N.Y.
        Charles E. Eble, a retired chairman and chief executive officer of the Consolidated Edison Company, died of complications of diabetes Tuesday at Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Greenfield Center, N.Y.
        Mr. Eble was president of the giant utility during the Northeast blackout of Nov. 9, 1965, an emergency that resulted in criticism of the utility by the Federal Power Commission.
        He responded to the commission's charges that the blackout might never have reached New York City if Con Ed's engineers had acted more quickly. Mr. Eble replied that the utility's system operators had made ''proper and timely decisions in the short space of time available to them.''
        It was during Mr. Eble's leadership that the idea for the Storm King power project in Cornwall, N.Y., was first advanced, and he championed the cause in the face of opposition by environmental groups. The project was abandoned in 1980, long after his departure, as part of a settlement of environmental issues affecting the Hudson River. Rose Through the Ranks
        Mr. Eble's was an office-boy-to-head-of-company tale. He spent his entire professional career of more than a half century with the utility and one of its predecessors, the Consolidated Gas Company.
        Born and raised in Ridgewood, Queens, Mr. Eble (pronounced EBB-bull) got his first job with Consolidated Gas in 1916. He rose through the ranks of accounting and finance while attending school at night.
        He was named controller in 1946, a position that placed him before regulatory agencies as a defender of Con Ed rate increases. In 1953 he was made a vice president in charge of Con Edison's accounting, tax and auditing operations. He became president in 1957 and chairman and chief executive officer in 1966. He stepped down as chairman in 1967, succeeded by Charles F. Luce, and moved shortly afterward to Greenfield Center.
        Mr. Eble served on a task force named by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1959 to survey the state's power needs and resources for the next decade. He was a former director of the Empire State Atomic Development Associates, a cooperative effort of state utilities to accelerate research in nuclear-fueled power.
        He was a former president of the Greater New York Safety Council and a director of the East River Savings Bank. His wife, Roselind, died in 1973.  He is survived by a son, Charles R., of Blairstown, N.J., two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      