
       Federl District Judge William R. Overton, who struck down as unconstitutional an Arkansas law that required public schools in Arkansas to teach a creationist account of the origin of life if they taught the theory of evolution, died today of cancer. He was 47 years old.
        Federl District Judge William R. Overton, who struck down as unconstitutional an Arkansas law that required public schools in Arkansas to teach a creationist account of the origin of life if they taught the theory of evolution, died today of cancer. He was 47 years old.
        Judge Overton died at his home, according to a statement from Chief Judge G. Thomas Eisele of the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
        Judge Overton was appointed to the Federal bench by President Carter in 1979.
        In 1981, he presided over a nine-day trial of a suit by the American Civil Liberties Union against the law containing the requirement on the teaching of creation science. He ruled in 1982 that the law violated the constitutional requirement of separation of church and state.
        Judge Overton said mail that he received after that ruling included some letters that praised him for protecting religious freedom and some that accused him of doing the devil's work and threatening him with hell.
        Two years later, he upheld a state law that allowed religious child-care centers to be licensed subject to inspection for compliance with minimum standards,despite complaints of nonreligious child-care facilities, subject to more stringent standards, that favoritism was being shown to religious facilities.
        He was born Sept. 19, 1939, in Malvern, where he attended public schools. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Arkansas in 1962 and his law degree from its law school two years later.
        In 1964, he went to work as an associate for the Little Rock law firm of Wright, Lindsey & Jennings, becoming a partner in 1966. He continued with the firm until his appointment to the bench.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan, and two sons.
        Funeral services are planned for Thursday in Little Rock.
      