
       James Burnham, an influential American conservative who was a founding editor of The National Review, died Tuesday of cancer at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 82.
        James Burnham, an influential American conservative who was a founding editor of The National Review, died Tuesday of cancer at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 82.
        A former follower of Leon Trotsky, Mr. Burnham broke with his left-wing associates in the late 1930's and became an outspoken conservative, whose blunt warnings about the perils of Communism left a lasting imprint on the American political debate.
        In a statement today, President Reagan mourned Mr. Burnham as ''one of those principally responsible for the great intellectual odyssey of our century - the journey away from totalitarian statism and toward the uplifting doctrines of freedom.''
        ''Burnham was absolutely vital in the development of American conservative thought,'' said William F. Buckley Jr., who first read Mr. Burnham's works as a student and then worked alongside him at The National Review. ''I would consider him the number one intellectual influence on The National Review since the day of its founding. He was also a great personal teacher, a remarkable intelligence.'' Princeton Graduate
        Born in Chicago on Nov. 22, 1905, Mr. Burnham was a summa cum laude graduate of Princeton University and received his graduate education at Balliol College, Oxford University.
        After joining the philosophy department of New York University in 1929, Mr. Burnham became a prominent figure in left-wing politics. Never a follower of Stalin, Mr. Burnham was an avowed Trotskyite, and attempted to form an independent Communist Party during the period of the Great Depression. After a falling-out with Trotsky, however, he abandoned his leftist views.
        ''The basic reason for the break,'' he later wrote, ''was my conclusion that Marxism was false and Marxist politics in practice lead not to their alleged goal of democratic socialism but to one or another form of totalitarian despotism.''
        Beginning in the early 1940's, Mr. Burnham devoted himself to writing several books that were to bring him national attention, among them ''The Managerial Revolution,'' published in 1941, and ''The Machiavellians,'' in 1943.
        But it was his two subsequent books, ''The Struggle for the World,'' in 1947, and ''The Coming Defeat of Communism,'' in 1950, that sparked the greatest interest and debate, warning of an impending and inevitable collision between the United States and Soviet Union.
        After leaving New York University in 1953, Mr. Burnham worked briefly at the Central Intelligence Agency in Washington, where, according to family members, he helped organize anti-Communist intellectual movements abroad.
        Mr. Burnham served as a founding editor of The National Review in 1955, and wrote several more books, including ''Congress and the American Tradition'' and ''Suicide of the West.'' He remained an editor and regular columnist at The National Review until a stroke forced him to reduce his workload in 1977.
        In 1983, Mr. Burnham was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Reagan in honor of his contribution to American conservative thought.
        Mr. Burnham is survived by two sons, James B., of Pittsburgh, John L. of Asheville, N.C., and seven grandchildren.
        A private funeral mass and burial service will be held Saturday in Kent. A memorial mass, open to the public, will be held at 11:00 A.M., August 17, at Our Savior Roman Catholic Church, 38th Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan.
        JAMES BURNHAM IS DEAD AT 82
      