
       Jack Lescoulie, one of the original stars of NBC's ''Today'' show, died of colon cancer yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis. He was 75 years old.
        Jack Lescoulie, one of the original stars of NBC's ''Today'' show, died of colon cancer yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Lescoulie, the co-host of ''Today'' for nearly 15 years, also appeared on many other television shows during the 1950's and 1960's.
        Born in Sacramento, Calif., Mr. Lescoulie made his acting debut at age 7 in a family vaudeville act in Los Angeles. After high school, he was a radio announcer and studied acting at the Pasadena Playhouse. Before turning to broadcasting, he appeared in a series of movie westerns called ''The Three Mesquiteers.'' His brief Broadway career included bellowing like an elephant offstage.
        During World War II he was an Army Air Forces combat reporter in Italy. After the war, he returned to New York and did an early-morning radio show on WOR with Gene Rayburn.
        Mr. Lescoulie's first television jobs included a starring role in a 1949 ABC dramatic anthology. He was a CBS producer in the early 1950's. When ''Today'' went on the air on Jan. 14, 1952, Mr. Lescoulie spoke the show's first words. He was teamed with Dave Garroway for over nine years, covering sports, news and features. The tall, blond performer was called ''the saver'' by Mr. Garroway because of his ability to enliven lackluster interviews with his wit. Often characterized as a good-humored, all-American boy, his frequently lighthearted tasks for ''Today'' included wrestling a walrus, interviewing a penguin and eating six breakfasts in one sitting. He Left 'Today' in 1961
        During the 1950's, Mr. Lescoulie made commercials for Milton Berle, was an announcer for ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' on CBS and was the host of an NBC sports-interview series called ''Meet the Champions.'' He also filled in as host of NBC's ''Tonight: America After Dark,'' a show that briefly replaced the ''Tonight'' show in 1957. The next year, he was co-host of an NBC quiz show called ''Brains and Brawn.''
        When the ''Today'' show went live in 1961, Mr. Lescoulie resigned, and shortly thereafter he was teamed with 10-year-old Richard Thomas as host of NBC's ''1, 2, 3 - Go,'' a children's educational series that lasted one season. After receiving thousands of letters calling for him to return to ''Today,'' he rejoined the series in 1962. He was Hugh Downs's co-host until 1967. After leaving the show, he made commercial voice-overs and appeared occasionally on television, most recently on the ''Today'' show's 35th anniversary special in January.
        Mr. Lescoulie is survived by his wife, Virginia; a daughter, Linda Ann, and a son, John Phillip.
        JACK LESCOULIE IS DEAD AT 75
      