
       John Hammond, a critic, talent scout and record producer whose musical discoveries ranged from Billie Holiday to Bob Dylan and who had an extraordinary influence upon the history of American popular music, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        John Hammond, a critic, talent scout and record producer whose musical discoveries ranged from Billie Holiday to Bob Dylan and who had an extraordinary influence upon the history of American popular music, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        Over the course of a career that spanned nearly half a century, Mr. Hammond was directly responsible for bringing Miss Holiday, Count Basie, Teddy Wilson, Charlie Christian and Aretha Franklin to public attention, and he supervised the last recording sessions of Bessie Smith, the celebrated blues singer.
        It was Mr. Hammond's idea to form the Benny Goodman Orchestra, and he organized the historic ''Spirituals to Swing'' concert at Carnegie Hall in 1938. Amid considerable corporate resistance, he signed a young, unknown folk singer named Bob Dylan to Columbia Records. And in 1972, when he was in his 60's, Mr. Hammond had the prescience to recognize talent in Bruce Springsteen and to offer him his first recording contract.
        Mr. Hammond was a champion of racial equality, and his love for jazz and blues helped to elevate black music from segregated clubs and small, poorly distributed ''race'' record labels and carry it to a wide audience. ''One reason I'm the way I am is that I got to know Harlem,'' he said in 1971. ''Upperclass white folks went up to Harlem in the 20's, slumming. I went out of passion. Anyone who did that had his life changed.'' He arranged recording dates with racially mixed groups when such arrangements were unheard of.
        When he introduced Teddy Wilson to Benny Goodman and they formed the Benny Goodman Trio, which subsequently played in Carnegie Hall, it was believed to be the first time a racially integrated musical unit had appeared onstage in a major hall in the United States.
        Mr. Hammond was also a critic, and wrote widely on jazz and popular music for publications as disparate as Melody Maker, The Brooklyn Eagle, New Masses and The New York Times.
        John Henry Hammond Jr. was born in an eight-story granite mansion at 9 East 91st Street in Manhattan on Dec. 15, 1910. His father, John Henry Ham mond, was a director of 10 corporations and the senior member of the law firm Hines, Rearick, Dorr & Hammond; his mother, Emily Vanderbilt Sloane Hammond, was the daughter of William Douglas Sloane, of W. & J. Sloane Furniture, and the granddaughter of William H. Vanderbilt.
        He attended Hotchkiss School and Yale University. While still a teen-ager, he became fascinated with black music, and spent a good deal of time in the clubs and theaters of Harlem. After dropping out of Yale in 1931, he worked for radio station WEVD as an announcer, disk jockey and producer of live jazz shows.
        He covered the ''Scottsboro Boys'' case for The Nation in the early 1930's, using the assignment as an excuse to explore the South and to meet and listen to jazz and blues musicians. In 1933, he was appointed the American recording director of the English division of Columbia Records.
        These early sessions yielded disks by Fletcher Henderson, Coleman Hawkins, Joe Venuti, Chick Webb, Red Norvo, Mildred Bailey, Gene Krupa and Jack Teagarden, among others. He personally subsidized many of these recordings on the $12,000-a-year income he received from a trust fund.
        Mr. Hammond heard Ella Fitzgerald in 1934, shortly after she had won an amateur contest, and declined to record her; he later said it was the worst mistake of his career. A Reluctant Goodman
        It was during this time that Mr. Hammond befriended the young Benny Goodman, who was then playing only occasionally in pit bands and on the radio. The two men often went on nocturnal excursions around Harlem; on one such trip, they heard an unknown singer named Billie Holiday. Mr. Hammond was tremendously impressed and immediately arranged for her to record two disks with Goodman. In 1934, Goodman reluctantly submitted to Mr. Hammond's oft-repeated plea that he form his own band; within a few years it was the most successful musical ensemble in the United States.
        During this period of his life, Mr. Hammond traveled by car, one equipped with a strong radio; he discovered Count Basie over the airwaves of a Kansas City station. He found Charlie Christian playing in a small honky-tonk club outside Oklahoma City. In December 1938 he brought the Goodman and Basie bands; Pete Johnson, Albert Ammons, Meade Lux Lewis and James P. Johnson, pianists; Sidney Bechet, soprano saxophonist, and others to Carnegie Hall for the legendary ''Spirituals to Swing'' concert.
        Mr. Springsteen played an audition for Mr. Hammond in the early 1970's. ''He launched immediately into an extraordinary piece filled with street imagery,'' Mr. Hammond recalled. ''I heard immediately that he was both a born poet and an extremely good guitar player.'' Mr. Springsteen's first two albums sold only moderately well, but his third, ''Born to Run,'' established him as one of the most popular musicians of his era.
        Mr. Hammond's wife, Esme O'Brien Hammond, to whom he was married in 1949, died in 1986; an earlier marriage had ended in divorce. He is survived by two sons, John Hammond, the blues musician, and Jason Hammond; a stepdaughter, Rosita Sarnoff, and six grandchildren.
      