
       Dominick Vincent Daniels, a former Representative from New Jersey who wielded much power over education and labor legislation until he retired in 1976 after 18 years in Congress, died Friday at Christ Hospital in Jersey City after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Union City, N.J.
        Dominick Vincent Daniels, a former Representative from New Jersey who wielded much power over education and labor legislation until he retired in 1976 after 18 years in Congress, died Friday at Christ Hospital in Jersey City after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Union City, N.J.
        Mr. Daniels's influence stemmed from his seniority on the House Education and Labor Committee, having been assigned to it in 1959 as a freshman liberal Democrat to foil party conservatives then holding sway over it.
        Over the years, he shaped bills in his fields of interest and headed some highly visible and politically weighty subcommittees. The panels dealt with subjects ranging from manpower over health and safety in the working place to postal and Federal payrolls.
        Congressman Daniels championed safety standards at youth summer camps in the 1970's when New Jersey, New York and Connecticut were among only a few states that had strict regulations. He took a lead in efforts to provide for compensation of injured workers and Federal job-safety rules where states failed to enforce any. A Classic Battle
        His efforts led to a compromise in 1970 that, after a classic labor-industry battle, established the principle of Federal supervision over occupational health and safety in industries around the country.
        He was prominent in the Democratic anti-recession crusades that in another compromise brought the Ford Administration in 1974 to accept a measure that called for 375,000 public-sector jobs for the unemployed and provided a Federal assistance program for millions of workers otherwise not covered by unemployment compensation.
        A loyal Democrat, Mr. Daniels nevertheless was outspoken in prodding the Kennedy Administration to see that schools and colleges strictly complied with the 1954 Supreme Court decision against racial segregation. He wrote a bill that in 1962 closed a loophole though which land-grant colleges could escape such compliance.
        He fought to improve the lot of the handicapped, especially children and poorly paid migrant workers, and worked for programs to combat drug addiction and hard-core pornography.
        When he decided in 1976 not to seek a 10th term, Hudson County Democratic leaders tried to change his mind. Mr. Daniels advised them to direct their energies at his wife, Camille. Mrs. Daniels, it seemed, had grown tired of living alone in their high-rise apartment for most of the week, prompting him to come back to Jersey City as a lawyer doing mostly trust and estate work. Born in Jersey City
        He was born in Jersey City, the son of an Italian immigrant. He graduated from Fordham University, worked his way through New Jersey Law School and was admitted to the bar at age 21.
        He later became Jersey City's presiding magistrate, a post he resigned to run for Congress in 1959. His constituency was the 14th District, a small, tightly built-up industrial district of mostly Italian-American and Irish-American blue-collar workers.
        Though its boundaries kept shifting, no Republican had ever been elected in the 14th except in the Eisenhower landslide of 1956. That year, Vincent J. Dellay, a Republican, won the seat, promptly turned Democrat and chose not to run again.
        Mr. Daniels trounced his opponents in every election year until his final re-election in 1974.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Dolores D. Maragni of North Long Branch, N.J., and Barbara D. Coleman of Avon, N.J.; five sisters, Anna Coglianese of Holmdel, N.J., Mildred Daniels of Cliffside Park, N.J., Eleanor Stutz, who lives in Louisiana, and Genevieve Daniels and Elizabeth Corrigan, both of Avon; a brother, Alfred, of Englewood Cliffs, N.J., and four grandchildren.
        A funeral mass is to be held tomorrow at 10:30 A.M. at St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church in Jersey City, preceded by a service at 9:30 at McLaughlin's funeral home at 625 Pavonia Avenue.
      