
       Theodore S. Ryan, a former Republican national committeeman who was long active in Connecticut politics and in ski area development in Colorado, died Wednesday at his home in Lakeville, Conn. He was 82 years old.
        Theodore S. Ryan, a former Republican national committeeman who was long active in Connecticut politics and in ski area development in Colorado, died Wednesday at his home in Lakeville, Conn. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Ryan, the grandson of the New York financier Thomas Fortune Ryan, was on the Republican National Committee from 1960 to 1968 and served as co-chairman of the Connecticut delegation to the Republican National Convention of 1964. He made an unsuccessful bid for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in 1958.
        He served three terms in the Connecticut State Senate, becoming the minority leader in 1955 and president pro tempore in 1957 during his third term. He also played a prominent role in the Presidential campaigns of 1952, 1956 and 1960 as head of the Eisenhower and Nixon citizens committees in Connecticut.
        Mr. Ryan and several friends built an early ski lodge in 1936 in Aspen, Colo., and scouted the nearby mountains for sites for ski lifts and runs. Later in his life, he concentrated largely on developing the sport of cross-country skiing. In 1971, he and his wife, the former Ruth Robinson, opened a cross-country skiing area near Aspen.
        During World War II, Mr. Ryan, who was found unfit for uniformed service because of old ski injuries, served as a civilian in the Office of Strategic Services in North Africa and Italy, winning United States and Italian decorations. Award-Winning Cattle
        After the war, he built up a herd of Aberdeen Angus cattle on a large farm, Mole's Hill, straddling the Connecticut-New York border between Sharon, Conn., and Millerton, N.Y. He long considered Sharon his residence.
        The awards won by his cattle over the years included grand championships in 1957, 1962 and 1963 at the International Livestock Exhibition in Chicago.
        Born in Suffern, N.Y., Mr. Ryan graduated from Yale in 1927. As an alumnus, he maintained a longstanding interest in Roman Catholic studies and religious activities on the Yale campus.
        He is survived by his wife; a son, Randolph, of Boston, and two daughters, Saville Ryan of Manhattan and Sharon Ryan of Durham, N.C.
      