
       Nathan Perlmutter, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith since 1979, died of lung cancer Sunday afternoon at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, where he was admitted July 8. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Nathan Perlmutter, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith since 1979, died of lung cancer Sunday afternoon at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, where he was admitted July 8. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        A colleague said yesterday that Mr. Perlmutter used to smoke cigars but quit several years ago. His lung cancer was first diagnosed in 1985.
        Mr. Perlmutter, a blunt-spoken lawyer who grew up in Brooklyn, worked most of his adult life with the Anti-Defamation League, and, as its senior full-time executive, became nationally known as one of the chief spokesmen for American Jews on a variety of issues, many of which were related to anti-Semitism.
        As national director of the A.D.L., which was founded in 1913, he oversaw its national headquarters in Manhattan, its 31 regional offices in the United States, its overseas offices in Jerusalem, Rome and Paris, and its liaison offices in Latin America.
        He was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the United States's highest civilian award, last month. In presenting it, President Reagan said Mr. Perlmutter had ''made it his life work to champion human dignity.'' 'Justice for Everyone'
        In a statement released at City Hall yesterday, Mayor Koch said, ''Nate Perlmutter had the deepest commitment to justice for everyone without regard to race, ethnicity, religion or gender that I have ever encountered.''
        In late 1980, commenting on a league survey that showed an increase in reported anti-Semitic incidents that year, Mr. Perlmutter said the findings ''suggest that there is a high quotient of anti-Semitism and anti-Jewish hostility which still exists just beneath the surface of American life.''
        Mr. Perlmutter said in an interview in 1984 that he had become increasingly worried about American attitudes toward Israel. ''I am more concerned by an isolationism that may deprive America's strongest ally in the Middle East of needed support,'' he said, ''than I am with some Klansman in a cow pasture in central Missouri.''
        In 1984, after Louis Farrakhan, the black Muslim leader, criticized Israel and the American political establishment in a speech at the National Press Club in Washington, Mr. Perlmutter said that ''by providing Farrakhan with a bullhorn for his ravings, the press is magnifying his significance.''
        In that same year, after the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a Presidential candidate, contended in an interview that Jewish leaders were trying to make him a pariah, Mr. Perlmutter said that ''Jews speak for their dignity against his anti-Semitic statements and somehow that becomes 'arrogant' and 'contemptuous,' '' referring to terms Mr. Jackson used in the interview.
        A few days later, Mr. Perlmutter said that what he called a ''personal statement and apology'' by Mr. Jackson for earlier expressing views that were widely seen as anti-Semitic was ''candid and welcome.'' Son of Polish Immigrants
        Mr. Perlmutter was raised in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, the son of immigrants from Poland. His father, Hyman, was a tailor by trade but worked as a laborer for the Work Projects Administration during the Depression; his mother, the former Bella Finkelstein, sold ices from a pushcart.
        Mr. Perlmutter, who attended Georgetown and Villanova Universities, volunteered during World War II for the United States Marine Corps and served in China. In 1949, he received a Bachelor of Laws degree from New York University. In that year, he joined the Anti-Defamation League, which assigned him to a variety of posts around the country in the next 15 years.
        Leaving the agency, Mr. Perlmutter was associate national director of the American Jewish Committee from 1965 to 1969 and a vice president of Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., from 1969 to 1973. He then returned to the Anti-Defamation League, initially as assistant national director. 'My Mind Is Smiling'
        In June 1985, he was told by his family physician that he had lung cancer. A journal he kept for some weeks afterward was published in The New York Times Magazine of Nov. 24, 1985, under the headline ''Diary of a Cancer Patient.'' In it he wrote: ''You're supposed to see your life go by at times like this. What did I do with mine? My mind is smiling at what I feel I've accomplished. I married the prettiest girl in the neighborhood. I made it to Marine infantry officer, wrote a few books and became director of A.D.L.''
        He continued to work at his Manhattan office through last spring and then worked from his home until he entered the Sloan-Kettering center on July 8.
        He was the author of two books, ''How to Win at the Races'' (1964) and ''A Bias of Reflections'' (1972), and the co-author, with his wife, of a third, ''The Real Anti-Semitism'' (1982).
        Mr. Perlmutter is survived by his wife, the former Ruthann Osofsky; a brother, Philip, of Boston; a son, Dean, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and a daughter, Nina Mohit of Prescott, Ariz.
        A funeral service will be held at noon tomorrow in the main sanctuary of Temple Emanu-El, at Fifth Avenue and 65th Street.
      