
       Oliver Ramsay Pilat, a retired newspaper reporter and author of seven books who once served as the ''night mayor'' of New York City, died Tuesday at Bellevue Medical Center of complications following surgery for a broken hip. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Oliver Ramsay Pilat, a retired newspaper reporter and author of seven books who once served as the ''night mayor'' of New York City, died Tuesday at Bellevue Medical Center of complications following surgery for a broken hip. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Pilat, a native of Manhattan, earned a bachelor's degree from Amherst College in 1926. Soon after, he was hired as a reporter by The Brooklyn Eagle.
        Between 1930 and 1934, Mr. Pilat served as The Eagle's European correspondent. In 1937, he joined The New York Post, and was a Washington correspondent for the paper from 1943 until 1949. At that time, he became a political reporter for The Post and also began writing a column, ''In the Backrooms.''
        When Representative John V. Lindsay ran for mayor in 1965, he chose Mr. Pilat to serve as a press aide. And when the victorious Mayor sought to fulfill a campaign pledge to keep City Hall open 24 hours a day, he chose Mr. Pilat to serve as ''night mayor.''
        Mr. Pilat's daughter, Betsy Marston of Paonia, Colo., recalled: ''He was the night owl. He would schedule members of the administration to participate in running the city in the middle of the night.'' 'Sodom by the Sea'
        Mr. Pilat's books included novels and biographies. In 1942, he had a best-seller, ''Sodom by the Sea,'' a colorful history of Coney Island, including vivid accounts of pirates, prizefights and gangland slayings, which he wrote with a fellow newsman, Jo Ranson. His other books included ''Pegler: Angry Man of the Press,'' ''Lindsay's Campaign'' and ''Drew Pearson: An Unauthorized Biography.''
        Between 1974 and 1978, Mr. Pilat was a writer-in-residence at the New School for Social Research. In 1965, he served as president of the New York Newspaper Guild. And, in 1972, he was president of the Society of Silurians.
        Mr. Pilat's first wife, Avice Riddle, died in 1975. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his second wife, Lilian of Manhattan; a son, Carl, of Belle Harbor, Queens, and two grandchildren.
      