
       Daniel J. Haughton, who rose from systems analyst to chairman of the board in 37 years with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, died Sunday of complications from heart and gall bladder surgery at the Kennestone Hospital in Marietta, Ga. He was 75 years old and lived in Marietta.
        Daniel J. Haughton, who rose from systems analyst to chairman of the board in 37 years with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, died Sunday of complications from heart and gall bladder surgery at the Kennestone Hospital in Marietta, Ga. He was 75 years old and lived in Marietta.
        In Mr. Haughton's nine years as chairman of the California-based aerospace company, from 1967 until his retirement in 1976, Lockheed barely avoided bankruptcy only to see its reputation tarnished by accusations of bribery to win military and commercial contracts around the world.
        Mr. Haughton stepped down as Lockheed's chairman in May 1976, five months earlier than planned, amid a furor over the bribery charges. The company eventually pleaded guilty to the charges in 1979. Neither Mr. Haughton nor any other Lockheed executive was prosecuted in the case by the Department of Justice.
        Mr. Haughton, who served as president of Lockheed from 1961 until he was named chairman, headed a company with 57,000 employees and sales of $3.3 billion in 1975. He also presided over the development of some of the company's best-known aircraft. Fiscal Plight of 1970's
        Among them were the U-2 and the SR-71 Blackbird, high-flying reconnaissance planes; the C-5A military transport and the L-1011 TriStar wide-body commercial jetliner.
        It was the last two aircraft, starting with vast cost overruns on the transport plane, that got Lockheed into financial trouble in the early 1970's.
        Lockheed's problems were complicated by the failure of Britain's Rolls-Royce Ltd., the company that produced the engines for the commercial jet.
        Mr. Haughton helped persuade the British Government to take over Rolls-Royce and continue the TriStar engine program. He also persuaded the United States Government to guarantee $250 million in bank loans to Lockheed.
        The soft-spoken patriarchal Southerner, who was called ''Uncle Dan'' by many of his employees and who called his Lockheed management team ''my boys,'' was born Daniel Jeremiah Haughton on his parents' farm near Dora, in Walker County, Ala., on Sept. 11, 1911.
        He majored in business administration at the University of Alabama, from which he graduated in 1933. Before joining Lockheed, he worked as a cost accountant for the Consolidated Aircraft Corporation in San Diego.
        Mr. Haughton's first job with Lockheed came in 1939 when he was hired as a systems analyst for the Vega Aircraft Corporation, a Lockheed subsidiary that subsequently merged with the parent company. The Rise to the Top
        Mr. Haughton joined the executive ranks of the parent company in 1944 as assistant general works manager and rose steadily to become a Lockheed vice president and general manager of the company's Georgia Division in 1952. In 1956, he was named executive vice president, with authority over all operating divisions and subsidiaries.
        The hard-driving yet genial style of Mr. Haughton at Lockheed attracted the attention of Courtlandt S. Gross, who formed the syndicate that brought Lockheed out of bankruptcy in the 1930's. Mr. Haughton first succeeded Mr. Gross as president; six years later, he followed Mr. Gross into the chairmanship.
        Mr. Haughton's wife, the former Martha Jean Oliver, died in 1980. They had no children. He is survived by a sister, Sarah Rodgers of Northport, Ala.
        DANIEL J. HOUGHTON IS DEAD AT 75
      