
       Jacob S. Seidman, a senior partner of the accounting firm of Seidman & Seidman and a longtime proponent of simplifying the tax system, died Monday at Doctors Hospital. He lived in Manhattan and was 86 years old.
        Jacob S. Seidman, a senior partner of the accounting firm of Seidman & Seidman and a longtime proponent of simplifying the tax system, died Monday at Doctors Hospital. He lived in Manhattan and was 86 years old.
        An expert on the Federal income tax, Mr. Seidman was among the early advocates of making the tax form more understandable. ''My revolutionary proposition is that our tax laws be written in English,'' he wrote in 1966.
        Mr. Seidman, who was born in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, began his accounting career in 1918 when he joined his brothers' accounting firm as a bookkeeper.
        He became a partner in the firm after graduating magna cum laude in 1921 from New York University. He received a law degree from Fordham in 1924 and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1925.
        Mr. Seidman wrote a column that appeared intermittently in Variety on tax matters and show business. Broadway Investor
        He was a frequent investor in Broadway shows, including ''Brigadoon,'' ''Wonderful Town,'' ''Come Back, Little Sheba'' and ''Sweet Bird of Youth.''
        During World War II, he served in the Navy as a special assistant to Navy Secretary James V. Forrestal. After the war, he was a special accounting consultant to the House Appropriations Committee, the Budget Bureau and the Hoover Commission.
        He was a former president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, a member of the New York University board of trustees and a director of the New York Board of Trade.
        He retired 18 years ago after suffering a stroke that partly paralyzed his left hand and leg.
        He is survived by his wife, Jan, of Manhattan; two brothers, Philip, of Memphis, and Harry, of Coconut Creek, Fla.; and a sister, Etta Schachter, of Brooklyn.
        JACOB S. SEIDMAN
      