
       Earl B. Schwulst, who in the 1960's led a New York City commission that recommended a city income tax and headed a study that assailed racial segregation in public housing, died Tuesday at the Carolton Health Center in Southport, Conn., after a long illness. He was 90 years old and lived in Southport.
        Earl B. Schwulst, who in the 1960's led a New York City commission that recommended a city income tax and headed a study that assailed racial segregation in public housing, died Tuesday at the Carolton Health Center in Southport, Conn., after a long illness. He was 90 years old and lived in Southport.
        During his career, Mr. Schwulst, a former president and chairman of the Bowery Savings Bank, served as a financial consultant to many Federal agencies and foreign countries.
        Mr. Schwulst was born in Sherman, Tex., and earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard University.
        His first job, in 1920, was as an analyst with the J. P. Morgan Company. He then became manager of the credit and loan departments at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. During a four-year stay there, he published a book on bank credit that attracted the attention of banking officials and, at the age of 30, he was named an adviser to the Central Bank of Ecuador. Government Service
        The following year, Mr. Schwulst moved to the Philippines, then an American territory, where he first served as financial adviser to the Governor-General and then as vice president of the Philippine National Bank. In 1935, he became a consultant to the Government of Cuba.
        A year later, Mr. Schwulst was appointed first vice president of the Bowery Savings Bank, one of the largest savings institutions in the country. He became president of the bank in 1949 and chairman in 1952. He retired from the bank in 1966.
        Under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Mr. Schwulst was a special assistant to the board of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, and later served as the president and director of the agency's mortgage company.
        In 1964, he became chairman of Mayor Robert F. Wagner's Temporary Commission on City Finances. Among other things, the commission recommended a 2 percent city income tax. The city imposed an income tax in 1966.  Also during the 1960's, Mr. Schwulst headed a three-year study, sponsored by the Fund for the Republic, that attacked segregation in public housing. Mr. Schwulst called segregation ''unjust and damaging'' to both blacks and whites. Role in Charity
        President John F. Kennedy appointed him to the Committee on Equal Opportunity in Housing.
        Mr. Schwulst served as the president of the Greater New York Fund which provides funds to various charities. For 20 years, he was a member of the faculty of the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers University. He also was a trustee of Barnard College.
        In 1965, Mr. Schwulst received a medal for his civic service from the Citizens Budget Commission. In citing Mr. Schwulst, the commission said he ''exemplifies the informed volunteer in the public service.''
        Mr. Schwulst is survived by his wife, Juanita of Southport; a daughter, Leota Danforth of Oklahoma City; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      