
       The Rev. Robert C. Hunsicker, who served the parish of Trinity Church for 37 years, 20 of them as vicar of historic St. Paul's Chapel, died of a heart attack Saturday in Manhattan. He was 72 years old and a resident of Manhattan and Sandisfield, Mass.
        The Rev. Robert C. Hunsicker, who served the parish of Trinity Church for 37 years, 20 of them as vicar of historic St. Paul's Chapel, died of a heart attack Saturday in Manhattan. He was 72 years old and a resident of Manhattan and Sandisfield, Mass.
        Mr. Hunsicker began his work at Trinity, on Broadway at the foot of Wall Street, in 1943, two years after he graduated from the General Theological Seminary and was ordained by the Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York. He retired in 1980, having worked as Trinity's historian during his final five years of service.
        His appointment as vicar of St. Paul's in 1950 came at a joyous time for what is considered Manhattan's oldest public building. The Renaissance structure on Broadway, Fulton and Vesey Streets had been dedicated in 1766 and George Washington worshiped there during the first two years of his Presidency. A Major Overhaul
        After Mr. Hunsicker took over, the chapel went through a major overhaul. Its organ was rebuilt, its famous chandeliers and Georgian interior were repaired. When the parishioners returned months later, St. Paul's looked much as it did in 1766, since the restorers had studied old plans and pictures.
        Mr. Hunsicker, a native of Lansdale, Pa., graduated from Trinity School in New York, once part of Trinity parish, in 1934 and earned a bachelor's degree from Columbia University in 1939. Before he came to Trinity Church, he served at Grace Church in Manhattan and in Brooklyn.
        He remained a parish consultant until 1982 and helped to plan the Trinity Museum. Over the years, Mr. Hunsicker also was active in social affairs. His work for the elderly led him to become president of St. Luke's Home and a trustee of Morningside House, its successor. He also was a member of the 200th Anniversary Committee of the Diocese of New York.
        He was honored in 1963 by the Protestant Council of New York for ''faithful perseverance in the pastoral ministry to the changing inner city.'' He left no immediate survivors.  A requiem mass will be celebrated at 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Church of St. Mary the Virgin at 145 West 46th Street.
      