
       Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige died at a hospital here today hours after a horse he was riding in a calf-roping event fell on him.
        Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige died at a hospital here today hours after a horse he was riding in a calf-roping event fell on him.
        Mr. Baldrige, 64 years old, died in surgery at John Muir Memorial Hospital here about 3:50 P.M., said Dr. Naran Patel, a surgeon at the hospital.
        The Commerce Secretary, a member of President Reagan's Cabinet since 1981, was flown to the hospital by helicopter after the accident at the Jack Roddy Ranch in Brentwood, 45 miles east of San Francisco.  [ Obituary, page 26. ]  Major Internal Injuries Mr. Baldrige, who had a lifelong passion for rodeo competition, suffered internal injuries, including tears to the pancreas and heart when the horse fell on him about 1:15 P.M., doctors said.
        His heart had stopped for several minutes after the accident but a doctor who was at the scene was able to revive him through cardiopulminary resuscitation.
        Dr. Patel said that in surgery doctors discovered severe internal bleeding that they were unable to stem. He said the aorta and the large vein leading to the heart were both torn.
        About 90 minutes into the operation, Mr. Baldrige's heart stopped and efforts to restart it through heart massage failed.
        ''He bled to death from the massive injuries and from the lack of coagulation,'' said Dr. Ronald LaPorta, chief surgeon at the hospital and one four doctors who operated on the Secretary. ''He was always in shock; he never got out of shock.'' Statement by Reagan
        ''The nation has suffered a great loss with the tragic and untimely death of Secretary Malcolm Baldridge,'' President Reagan said in a statement read by Leslye Arsht, the White House deputy press secretary.
        ''Under his stewardship, the Department of Commerce played a key role in the rebirth of our country's prosperity and all of us owe a great debt to Mac Baldrige,'' the President said.
        Sgt. Larry Aulich of the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Department said Mr. Baldrige was trying to rope a calf when his horse reared and fell backward. The horse fell on Mr. Baldrige ''full force,'' Sergeant Aulich said.
        Dr. Bert D. Johnson, a Stanford University gynecologist who arrived at the ranch just after the accident, said he and volunteer firefighters administered cardiopulminary resuscitation for about four minutes until Mr. Baldrige's heart started beating again and he began breathing. He was then taken to the hospital. Condolences From Bush
        From Kennebunkport, Me., where he was spending the weekend, Vice President Bush said: ''Mac Baldrige set the standard for excellence, decency and integrity in public life. He was a tower of strengh and truly a man of honor.''
        From Indianapolis, Bob Dole, the Senate Republican leader, said: ''I am shocked by the sudden loss of this good man. Mac was a friend, a dedicated public servant who I admired, and a superb cabinet member who earned the respect of Capitol Hill. Elizabeth and I are deeply saddened and our thoughts are with the Baldrige family.'' Was Scheduled to Appear at Fair
        Mr. Baldrige had been scheduled to appear tonight at the Contra Costa County Fair. Although he was in his 60's, he competed in about three professional rodeos a year and often participated in roping competitions.
        His office was filled with mementoes of his lifelong passion: bronze cowboy statues, a coiled lasso, a saddle he won at a 1978 rodeo and a collection of belt buckles won in roping contests.
        Mr. Baldrige had had several recent health problems. Last December, he came down with viral pneumonia and was hospitalized in Albuquerque. He was flat on his back for nearly four weeks, but said in April that he had made a full recovery. He said he had quit smoking and begun jogging two miles a day.
        He was one of only three members of Mr. Reagan's original 1981 Cabinet team who were still on the job. The others are Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger and Housing Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr.
      