
        Janice Gilbert Fulton, a bridge expert and game-show personality in the early days of television, was presumed dead after a boating accident last week near her home about 150 miles north of Haiti, her lawyer said yesterday.
        The lawyer, Ian Miller, said that Mrs. Fulton's husband, David Fulton, 70 years old, a mining engineer, was also presumed dead, as was Dan Cooper, 45, a Canadian real estate developer who was a passenger when the Fultons' 22-foot fishing boat capsized in choppy waters on Thursday morning.
        Mr. Miller said he notified the authorities when the Fultons failed to return to their home, on Providenciales in the Turks and Caicos Islands.
        He said rescuers found two survivors, Douglas Colledi of London, Ontario, and Lucien Vixama of Providenciales, in the Fultons' righted boat on Friday. A search of the Caribbean by private planes and the Coast Guard was called off on Sunday.
        Family members said Mrs. Fulton was born in New York City about 1920. She played Little Orphan Annie on radio soap operas. Later she played the Paying Teller on the television give-away show "Break the Bank" in the 1950's.
        In 1955 she married Tobias Stone of Las Vegas, Nev., a champion bridge player who taught her to play the game. They won the Goldman Pairs in 1957, making them the only married couple to win in the 64-year history of the event; they also won the Master Mixed Team Championship in 1965. She won three other national titles: the Women's Teams in 1956 and 1969 and the Life Master Women's Pairs in 1965.
        Mr. Stone and Mrs. Fulton divorced in 1975, and in 1980 she married Mr. Fulton, who had been the chief mining engineer in the Stone family gold and silver mining business, where she worked from 1974 to 1978.
        Mrs. Fulton's first husband, William Miles, lives in Los Angeles. Her second husband, William Dunlop, is deceased. She is survived by a son, Jeffrey Miles of Los Angeles, and by a daughter, Leslie Coren of Hallandale, Fla.
      