
        John T. Hughes, a leading interpreter of aerial intelligence photographs who advised four Presidents and reassured the nation in a 1963 broadcast that the Soviet Union had removed its offensive missiles from Cuba, died on Tuesday at Fairfax Hospital in Falls Church, Va. He was 64 years old and lived in nearby Annandale.
        He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        Mr. Hughes retired in 1984 as the deputy director for intelligence and external affairs at the Defense Intelligence Agency, where he had previously served as deputy director for collection and surveillance operations.
        Over the years he personally briefed Presidents John F. Kennedy, Gerald R. Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan on highly classified photographs of Soviet military installations and other sensitive security matters.
        Mr. Hughes became widely known in 1963 when President Kennedy directed him to give a presentation, broadcast nationally by television and radio networks, about the Cuban missile crisis, which the year before had brought the United States and the Soviet Union to the brink of nuclear war.
        The purpose of the talk was to allay doubts that the Russians had removed their offensive missiles from Cuba, the central condition of the agreement that had ended the confrontation. Speaking for nearly an hour and a half without a text, Mr. Hughes used a 12-foot screen to show more than 100 photographs taken by American U-2 spy planes.
        He returned to public attention in 1982 when he gave a similar report to the news media on a military buildup by Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista Government. With blowups of aerial photos on that occasion, he analyzed details as small as tire ruts and tank tracks. It was his skill at such analysis that led Adm. Bobby R. Inman, at the time Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, to call him the nation's "premier photo interpreter." Master's From Clark University
        Mr. Hughes was born in Trenton, graduated from New Jersey State Teachers College in 1950 and earned a master's degree in geography at Clark University in 1951.
        His work with military maps that had been donated to Clark led him to an assignment at the Army Photographic Intelligence Center while he was on active duty from 1954 to 1957. He reached the rank of first lieutenant and later retired from the Army Reserve as a captain.
        Surviving are his wife of 41 years, the former Pauline Veldof; four sons, John T. of Blacksburg, Va., Christopher P. of Herndon, Va., and Michael J. and James B., both of Reston, Va.; a brother, James J. of Red Bank, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      