
        Sir Hugh Walter Kingwell Wontner, a British hotelier at some of London's most famous lodgings, died on Wednesday in London. He was 84 years old.
        Prominent in the international hotel scene, for many years he was chairman and managing director of the Savoy Group, which includes Claridge's and the Berkeley Hotel. Two years ago, he became president of Savoy.
        Sir Hugh saw the chain through some bad times in World War II and fended off takeover bids. Aside from his worldwide involvement as co-founder and president of the International Hotel Association, he had many historical and commercial interests in Britain. At his death, he was Clerk to the Royal Kitchens, a role in which he was responsible for accommodating guests at the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953. Active in City of London
        He figured large in the City of London, the financial district, serving as Alderman in the 1960's and as Sheriff in 1970, and then in 1973 as the 646th Lord Mayor of London, a ceremonial post.
        In 1968 at a Sotheby's auction, Sir Hugh bid high for three signed operetta scores by Gilbert and Sullivan, "The Gondoliers," "Princess Ida" and "Patience" to keep them in Britain. A close friend of the D'Oyly Carte family and a trustee of the company, he bought the scores on behalf of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Trust.
        His past and present memberships included the Historic Buildings Council for England and the British Heritage Committee. He was knighted in 1972. Childhood Home in Chiswick
        His childhood home was Bedford Park in Chiswick, a section of London. He was educated at the Oundle school and also in France, and on his return to England at 19, he joined the secretarial staff of the London Chamber of Commerce. At 25, he became the general secretary of the Hotels and Restaurants Association.
        Sir George Reeves-Smith, managing director of the Savoy since 1901, made him his assistant in 1938. By 1941, Sir Hugh became managing director of the Savoy Hotel. Altogether, he served as director of the Savoy, Claridge's and Berkeley Hotels from 1940 to 1988.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Catherine Irvin, two sons and a daughter.
      