
        James J. Rowley, the former head of the United States Secret Service who reorganized the agency after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died Sunday at his home in Leisure World, Md. He was 84 years old.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Rowley served as director of the Secret Service from 1961 to 1973. Following recommendations from the Warren Commission and others after Kennedy's assassination, he modernized the agency's law-enforcement and training procedures, expanding the use of electronic technology, and bolstered its protective intelligence operations.
        The Secret Service was set up within the Department of the Treasury in 1865 to thwart counterfeiters. While remaining part of the department, the 2,000 agents of the Service now also protect the President, Vice President, their families, major-party political candidates and foreign dignitaries in addition to guarding against counterfeiting and fraud involving securities, computers and credit cards.
        Mr. Rowley, a native of the Bronx, was educated at St. John's University, where he received two law degrees, studying at night and working as a bank investigator by day. He started his career with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1937 but accepted a position with the Secret Service the next year. He was assigned to the New York field office.
        In 1939, he became special agent in charge of the Presidential Protective Division. That gave him a role in advance security arrangements for President Franklin D. Roosevelt's trips to wartime conferences in Casablanca, Morocco; Tunis; Cairo; Teheran, Iran, and Yalta, U.S.S.R.
        On Nov. 1, 1950, he directed special agents and officers of the White House Police as they foiled an attempt on President Harry S. Truman's life, when Puerto Rican nationalists tried to shoot their way into Blair House, where Truman was staying while the White House was being remodeled.
        In tribute to him, the Secret Service created the James J. Rowley Training Center in Beltsville, Md., in 1983.
        Mr. Rowley is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Mabel Rita Cluen; three daughters, Claudia Dailey of Columbia, Md., Linda Graham of Chevy Chase, Md., and Donna Ryan of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, the Rev. Francis P. Rowley of Blauvelt, N.Y.; a sister, Marge Borise of Greenwich, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      