
        Dr. Elias E. Manuelidis, an internationally known expert on viral brain infections and brain tumors, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in New Haven.
        He died of a stroke, the Yale School of Medicine said. He was professor emeritus of neuropathology and neurology at Yale and taught there from 1951 until 1989. He continued his research until the time of his death, particularly on Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a degenerative disease of the nervous system.
        Professor Manuelidis built a reputation on his work on Alzheimer's disease and polio virus, but most of all Creutzfeldt-Jakob, which often strikes in mid-life and is usually fatal. Among his contributions was to demonstrate viremia in the disease -- the presence of viruses in the blood, often characterized by malaise, fever and aching of the back and extremities. Work With Tumors
        He verified how people can become infected with contaminated tissue transplants and thought that infection with the virus might be more common than is generally realized. Other contributions included the first long-term tissue culture of human brain tumors, in 1959, and, in 1964, the demonstration that a virus could be used selectively to kill a malignant tumor.
        Professor Manuelidis was born in Constantinople and became a refugee in Athens at the age of 4. He enrolled in the University of Munich, where he received his medical degree in 1942. From 1946 to 1949 he was director of anatomical pathology at the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich.
        He worked as a civilian neuropathologist for the United States Army, and Yale invited him to join the Medical School faculty in 1951. At Yale, he was head of neuropathology and curator of the Harvey Cushing Brain Tumor Registry.
        Professor Manuelidis is survived by his wife of 26 years, the former Laura Kirchman. A former student of his, she is a professor of neuropathology (surgery) at Yale, who succeeded him as head of neuropathology. Also surviving are two sons, Emmanuel E., of Toledo, Ohio, and Laertes A., of New Haven, and a sister, Frangiski Papadopulos of Athens.
      