
        Jubal R. Parten, who spent more than seven decades as an independent oil producer and refiner, died Sunday at his home in Madisonville, Tex. He was 96 years old.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        At the time of his death Mr. Parten, -- who was known as J. R., was board chairman of the Parten Oil Company of Houston, the latest of a long string of ventures. The company concentrates on oil and gas exploration and production in the East Texas counties of Madison and Houston. His other holdings included extensive cattle and ranching operations in those counties.
        A native of Madisonville, Mr. Parten was born into a family of Texas pioneers. He majored in government and law at the University of Texas and served in the Army in World War I, rising to the rank of major.
        He later joined his father-in-law, Edward L. Woodley, to form the Woodley Patroleum Company in Shreveport, La. In the decades that followed, Mr. Parten and various partners were active in southern Arkansas, where his drilling company discovered the Smackover oil field, as well as in northern Louisiana, East Texas, St. Paul and Mexico.
        Mr. Parten was a past trustee of the University of Texas. In 1988, he established the J. R. Parten Chair in the Archives of American History at the university.
        During World War II, he was responsible for getting crude oil and oil products where they were needed for the war effort.
        President Harry S. Truman appointed him chief of staff of the Allied War Reparations Commission in 1945. The President called on him again in 1950 to get fuel supplies to the military in Korea.
        He was a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for 17 years and an oil-policy adviser to the Interior Department in the Administration of President John F. Kennedy. In his last years, he gave advice and financial support to organizations working for peace, like the American Committee on East-West Accord.
        Mr. Parten is survived by his son, John R. Parten, and his daughter, Patricia P. Anderson, both of Houston; a sister, Alice Colwell of Huntsville, Tex.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      