
        Dr. William J. Campbell, a ranking meteorologist for the United States Geological Survey and an internationally known expert on polar ice, died last Friday. He was 62 years old and lived in Gig Harbor, Wash.
        The agency, which reported the death late Wednesday, said he had suffered a heart attack.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Campbell headed the agency's Ice and Climate Project, based on the campus of the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Wash. He played a leading role in interpreting data sent by earth-satellite sensors regarding polar sea ice. Adrift on Ice Island
        He was instrumental in the development of interagency and international remote-sensing experiments of the polar ice regions and was a member and director of several large-scale projects in that field.
        He wrote and co-wrote more than 130 papers and received many citations, including the United States Antarctic Medal (1965), the Soviet Union's Arctic Medal (1974) and several team awards from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        A native of Brooklyn, he was an alumnus of Brooklyn Technical High School and a physics graduate of the University of Alaska. As a graduate student, he spent 15 months studying ice physics while adrift on an ice island in the Arctic Ocean. He also survived a plane crash at the South Pole in 1963, the year before he earned his doctorate in atmospheric physics and oceanography at the University of Washington.
        A sought-after expert on sea-ice dynamics and remote sensing, he lectured at many universities in this country and abroad. He joined the United States Geological Survey, a branch of the Department of the Interior, as a member of a team studying sea-ice and glacier dynamics and was appointed chief of the agency's Ice Dynamics Research Project in 1969.
        Dr. Campbell is survived by his wife, Dr. Nelly Mognard Campbell, who is also a physicist; two sons, Christopher and Nicolas; and a brother, Dennis.
      