
        Frank G. Rossetti, a former labor leader, New York State Legislator and the Democratic Party chairman of Manhattan for a decade, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of complications of bone cancer after hip surgery, his family said.
        Mr. Rossetti was the Democratic leader of Tammany Hall from 1967 to 1977 and a State Assemblyman from 1942-44 and 1954-72. Humble Beginnings
        His beginnings were humble. Born in Caserta, Italy, he came to the United States with his family as a youngster. But both his parents died, and he dropped out of school after the eighth grade to support his brother and two sisters by delivering coal and ice in his East Harlem neighborhood.
        After working as an amateur boxer, fight manager and cabdriver, he became a plasterer's apprentice. In 1940 he became a union leader when he was elected business agent for Local 60 of the plasterers. He held that post until 1959, when he was elected vice president of the international union, the International Association of Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons, and was its chief officer for the Northeastern states. It was a job he had for 23 years. The union at one time had 70,000 members, but later dwindled with the advent of plasterboard.
        Mr. Rossetti's political career spanned 46 years. Throughout, East Harlem remained his home base, even as it changed from an Italian neighborhood to predominantly Hispanic and black.
        He started as district captain for the party in 1932, ringing doorbells and carrying nominating petitions. Eventually elected to the Assembly, he rose to become the chairman of the Assembly Labor and Industrial Relations Committee.
        His seniority and party leadership made him the Manhattan delegation's whip. He retired from the Legislature in 1972 after reapportionment placed him in the same district with another incumbent.
        Mr. Rossetti served as a delegate to every Democratic national convention from 1944 until 1968 and met every President from Harry S. Truman through Jimmy Carter and every New York governor from W. Averell Harriman through Hugh L. Carey.
        His hardest moment, he once recalled, was agonizing over his vote in the Legislature on the legalization of abortion. "My church was against it, but my party was for it," he said. "I went along with the party."
        Mr. Rossetti was a friend and protege of Carmine G. DeSapio, the last of the truly powerful Tammany leaders. After Mr. DeSapio was ousted in 1961, the political clubhouse system was weakened by a reform movement, more independent mayors, the dilution of party patronage and the rise of radio and television campaigns.
        In keeping with Manhattan's fractious Democratic traditions, Mr. Rossetti's leadership was often tested. Even Mayor Robert F. Wagner once backed a challenger to him. Mr. Rossetti always prevailed. But after he supported Mayor Abraham D. Beame's unsuccessful re-election bid in 1977, Mr. Rossetti decided to retire as chairman.
        Surviving are his wife of 66 years, the former Anna Salatto; a son, State Supreme Court Justice Frank Jr., of Long Beach, L.I.; two daughters, Mildred Nigro of Long Beach and Dorothy George of New Rochelle; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      