
        Dorothy Walker Bush, the mother of President Bush, died shortly after 5 P.M. yesterday at the family's house in Greenwich, Conn., after suffering a stroke. She was 91 years old.
        Mrs. Bush died barely five hours after President Bush returned to Washington from Greenwich, where he had flown early today with his daughter, Dorothy Koch, to be at his mother's bedside.
        The President had slipped quietly from Washington at 8:35 A.M. today for the trip to Greenwich, traveling on a small Air Force C-20 jet and in an eight-car motorcade instead of in a Boeing 747 and with the retinue of aides and Secret Service agents that normally accompany him on every trip out of town. He returned to the White House at 12:55 P.M. and made no public appearances for the rest of the day.
        Barbara Bush did not accompany her husband to Connecticut but stayed in Washington to greet President-elect Bill Clinton's wife, Hillary, and to attend to ceremonial duties.
        The White House said that Mr. Bush was told by telephone of his mother's death by his sister, Nancy Ellis of Lincoln, Mass., immediately after it occurred. Both he and Barbara Bush will attend funeral services Monday morning in Greenwich, aides said.
        A few hours after Mrs. Bush died, Mr. Clinton called the President to offer his condolences, Mr. Clinton's office said. "She was a remarkable woman, whom Hillary, Chelsea and I had the good fortune to meet in Maine several years ago," Mr. Clinton said, adding that the Bush family is "in our thoughts and prayers."
        Mr. Bush has described his mother as instilling in him a sense of competitiveness and of loyalty. Most of all, he said, she taught him not to take himself too seriously. She was a disciplinarian who took pains to see that her children were not spoiled, despite the family's good fortune. Family values, he said, included a sense of social service and an abhorrence of self-aggrandizement.
        Mrs. Bush also reared her children in a strongly religious home, a reflection of her own childhood during which she is said to have attended church as many as three times every Sunday.
        While George Bush was Vice President, Barbara Bush said in an interview that her mother-in-law "had 10 times more" influence on her son than his father did.
        When Mr. Bush took a vacation in Florida after his election to the Presidency in 1988, he put his arm around his mother and told reporters, "I just came to get my instructions from the head of the family here on how to do my job."  Atmosphere of Privilege
        She was born Dorothy Walker in Kennebunkport, Me., on July 1, 1901, the daughter of Loulie Wear Walker and George Herbert Walker. The Walker family had emigrated from England to America in the 17th century, and settled in Maine. By the middle of the 19th century, they had migrated to St. Louis where Dorothy Walker's father became a thriving businessman.
        Her father was a banker who established the Walker Cup, which pits British and American amateur golfers. Her father and grandfather established a summer home for the family about 1905 on Walker's Point in Kennebunkport, in a rambling waterfront house that now serves as the vacation White House.
        Mrs. Bush grew up in an atmosphere of privilege in St. Louis. She also attended the Farmington School Academy, a prep school in Farmington, Conn. Described in her youth as beautiful and vivacious, with an infectious laugh, she was an avid tennis player, an excellent golfer and a strong swimmer.
        In 1921, Dorothy Walker married Prescott Bush, an investment banker, at the Church of St. Ann in Kennebunkport, not far from her family's summer house. The couple moved to Tennessee and then Massachusetts where George Bush, the future President, was born in 1924. She named her second son after her father, and when young George married Barbara Pierce in 1945, the bride wore her mother-in-law's wedding veil of princess and rosepoint lace.
        During the President's childhood, Mrs. Bush was active in Greenwich public affairs, doing work for the Red Cross and a local welfare agency. Her husband, a partner in the Wall Street firm of Brown Brothers, Harriman & Company, also served as Republican Senator from Connecticut from 1952 to 1963. He died in 1972.
        In addition to the house in Kennebunkport, she kept homes in Greenwich, where the President spent his boyhood, and on Jupiter Island in Florida for winter vacations.
        In addition to the President and her daughter, she is survived by three sons, Prescott Bush Jr. of Greenwich, Jonathan Bush of Manhattan and William Bush of St. Louis, and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 21, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Dorothy W. Bush, the mother of the President, misstated the day the President traveled from Washington to Greenwich, Conn., to visit her and the day he returned to Washington. It was Thursday.
      