
        Karl W. Deutsch, a leading political scientist, died Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 80 years old.
        Professor Deutsch died of cancer, a daughter, Mary Edsall, said.
        He was professor of government emeritus at Harvard University and a former president of the American Political Science Association.
        Professor Deutsch was an innovator in applying quantitative methods to social-science research and in assembling data on population movements, languages and international trade.
        He helped to establish several institutions to collect data, including the Yale Political Data Program and the International Institute for Comparative Social Research of the Science Center in Berlin.
        His achievements brought honorary degrees from six American and European universities and the presidencies of the International Political Science Association and of the New England Political Science Association.
        Professor Deutsch was also granted the Grand Cross of Merit, the highest award the German Government bestows upon foreign nationals. In 1965, he was awarded the William Benton Prize of the Yale Political Union for having done the most to stimulate and maintain political interest at Yale.
        Born in Prague, he graduated from the German University there in 1934. He received a law degree in 1938 from Charles University in Prague, where he was a leader of anti-Nazi students. He immigrated to the United States soon after graduating.
        During World War II he worked with the Office of Strategic Services, the precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency, and participated in the creation of the United Nations in San Francisco in 1945.
        After the war he taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1945 to 1956, at Yale from 1957 to 1967, and at Harvard from 1967 to 1985. From 1977 to 1987, he was director of the International Institute for Comparative Social Research of the Science Center in Berlin.
        In addition to his daughter, Ms. Edsall, he is survived by his wife of 56 years, Ruth, and another daughter, Margaret Carroll, and three grandchildren.
      