
        William Hillcourt, the principal author of the "Official Boy Scout Handbook" who was known to scouts worldwide as "Green Bar Bill," died Monday in Stockholm. He was 92 years old.
        Terry Howerton, a friend who was working as a co-author on Mr. Hillcourt's autobiography, reported his death on Wednesday.
        Mr. Hillcourt, who lived in this suburb of Syracuse since 1979, was halfway through a trip around the world when he was stricken. His body will be returned to the United States later this month and buried alongside his wife in Mendham, N.J., where the Hillcourts lived for many years.
        Next to Lord Robert Baden-Powell, the British general who founded the Boy Scout movement in England in the 1890's, Mr. Hillcourt was the most widely known figure in scouting. He wrote several of the nine editions of the scouting handbook, which has sold more than 33 million copies since its first printing in 1910. Advice for Patrol Leaders
        Mr. Hillcourt also influenced generations of boys through the tales he told in the scouting magazine Boys' Life as Green Bar Bill, a name derived from the two horizontal green bars that are the patrol leader's badge.
        Mr. Hillcourt, a pharmacist who was born in Denmark, joined the Boy Scouts' national staff in 1929 and then began writing for Boys' Life.
        Green Bar Bill passed along his first bit of advice on camping and scouting skills in October 1932. He continued writing as Green Bar Bill until the advice column, which subsequently appeared in comic-strip form, ended in April 1988.
        Mr. Hillcourt also wrote "Handbook for Scoutmasters"; the Boy Scout's first "Scout Field Book"; the "Field Book of Nature Activities," a guide to the enjoyment of nature; Baden-Powell's biography, "Baden-Powell: The Two Lives of a Hero," and a 50-year history of scouting in America, "The Golden Book of Scouting."
        Because he was a Boy Scout employee, Mr. Hillcourt received no royalties for the handbook. Instead, he received six free copies for every 400,000 books sold.
      