
        Richard Yates, who wrote "Revolutionary Road" and other novels about self-deception, disappointment and grief, died on Saturday at the Birmingham (Ala.) Veterans Administration hospital. He was 66 years old and had lived in Tuscaloosa, Ala., for two years.
        He died of emphysema, which he had had for 10 years, and of complications from minor surgery, said his daughter Monica Yates. She said he smoked heavily until a year ago.
        "Revolutionary Road," Mr. Yates's first novel, published by Atlantic-Little, Brown in 1961, was what the New York Times critic Orville Prescott called a "brilliantly dismal" account of an unhappy 30-year-old couple, Frank and April Wheeler, who "lived in one of those new little houses on Revolutionary Road not very far from Stamford, Conn."
        When it was reissued by Delta-Seymour Lawrence in 1983, Michiko Kakutani, reviewing it in The New York Times, wrote, "It remains a remarkable and deeply troubling book -- a book that creates an indelible portrait of lost promises and mortgaged hopes in the suburbs of America."
        Halfway through "Revolutionary Road," April Wheeler says wistfully: "I still had this idea that there was a whole world of marvelous golden people somewhere. People who made their lives work out the way they wanted without even trying, who never had to make the best of a bad job because it never occurred to them to do anything less than perfectly the first time." A Novel on Washington
        Mr. Yates's other novels included "A Special Providence" (1969), "Disturbing the Peace" (1975), "The Easter Parade" (1976), "A Good School" (1978), "Young Hearts Crying" (1984) and "Cold Spring Harbor" (1986).
        Mr. Yates was born in Yonkers and grew up in Manhattan, Scarsdale, N.Y., and Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. He graduated from Avon Old Farms school in Avon, Conn., and served in the Army in World War II. He was a publicity writer for Remington Rand Inc. in New York City before becoming a freelance writer in 1953. He later taught writing on various campuses.
        Seymour Lawrence, Mr. Yates's longtime publisher, said that the writer had been working for years on a novel, "Uncertain Times," about Washington in the Kennedy Administration. He knew the subject firsthand, having written speeches for Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy in those years.
        Mr. Lawrence said that he and Houghton Mifflin had planned to publish the novel jointly, but that he did not know whether the manuscript was in publishable form.
        Mr. Yates was also the author of two short-story collections, "11 Kinds of Loneliness" (1962) and "Liars in Love" (1981).
        His 1948 marriage to Sheila Bryant ended in divorce in 1960. His 1968 marriage to Martha Speers ended in divorce in 1975.
        He is survived by three daughters, Monica, of Manhattan; Sharon Levine of Brooklyn, and Gina, of Vancouver, British Columbia, and two grandchildren.
      