
        Robert C. Arneson, a sculptor and ceramicist renowned for whimsical self-portraits and works on political themes, died on Monday at his home in Benicia, Calif. He was 62 years old.
        He died of liver cancer, said his New York dealer, Allan Frumkin of Frumkin/Adams Gallery.
        Mr. Arneson was born in Benicia in 1930. He graduated from the California College of Arts and Crafts in Oakland in 1954 and received a Master's Degree in Fine Arts from Mills College, also in Oakland, in 1958. After early work in watercolors, he enrolled in courses in ceramics at Mills and soon discovered the expressive works of the ceramicist and sculptor Peter Voulkos. "They were dynamite pieces," Mr. Arneson recalled in a 1981 interview. "Ugly, awkward, full of energy."
        Mr. Arneson soon became a leading figure in the Funk Art movement that flourished in northern California in the 1960's and 70's, producing ceramic sculptures, influenced by Pop Art, of objects like beer bottles and urinals.
        In the mid-1960's Mr. Arneson turned to the ceramic portraits, and particularly humorous self-portraits, that would become his artistic trademark. In ensuing years he depicted himself in many guises, whether puffing on a cigar, dressed as Santa Claus, or with his nose flattened as if by an invisible window. He also produced raucous portrait busts of figures ranging from friends and fellow artists like William T. Wiley and H. C. Westermann to George R. Moscone, the San Francisco mayor who was assassinated in 1978. Last summer an exhibition of Mr. Arneson's interpretations of Jackson Pollock, the Abstract Expressionist painter, was presented at the Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center in Springs, L.I.
        In recent years, Mr. Arneson had also employed his whimsical style to address political issues including nuclear war and the arms race. He taught at the University of California at Davis from 1962 until last year.
        Mr. Arneson's first marriage, to Jeanette Jensen, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Sandra Shannonhouse, and a daughter, Tenaya, of Benicia, and four sons: Leif, Kreg, Derek and Kirk, all of the Bay Area.
      