
        Henri Temianka, a violinist and conductor who founded the Paganini String Quartet and the California Chamber Symphony Orchestra, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85 years old.
        He died of complications related to cancer, said his son David, of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Temianka's solo recordings from the 1930's have long been prized by collectors of violin disks and were recently reissued on CD. But he was better known as a teacher, chamber player and conductor.
        With the Paganini Quartet, which he founded in 1946, he played the world premieres of works by Darius Milhaud, Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco and Benjamin Lees, among others. The California Chamber Symphony, which Mr. Temianka started in 1961, gave the first performances of music by Gian Carlo Menotti, Carlos Chavez, Malcolm Arnold, Alberto Ginastera and Aaron Copland. From Scotland to New York
        Mr. Temianka was born in Greenock, Scotland, on Nov. 19, 1906. He studied with Willi Hess and Jules Boucherit in Berlin and Paris, and later with Carl Flesch at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, where he also studied conducting with Artur Rodzinski.
        He made his New York debut in 1928 at Town Hall. In 1935, he entered the Wieniawski Competition in Warsaw and won third prize, after Ginette Niveu and David Oistrakh.
        He was the concertmaster of the Scottish Orchestra from 1937 to 1938 and of the Pittsburgh Symphony from 1940 to 1941, but he devoted most of his efforts to an expanding career as a soloist. In 1945, he became an American citizen.
        The Paganini String Quartet was founded immediately after World War II and performed until 1966; it was so named because the four instruments used by the players had once been owned by Niccolo Paganini. The ensemble made recordings for RCA Victor and Liberty.
        Mr. Temianka taught at the University of California at Santa Barbara from 1960 to 1964 and at California State University at Long Beach from 1964 to 1976. He also held master classes at various universities.
        He wrote more than 100 articles for a variety of publications, and in 1973 he published an amusing, anecdotal autobiography, "Facing the Music."
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Emma May Cowden Temianka; another son, Daniel, of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      