
        Dr. John Leslie Hotson, a prolific Elizabethan scholar whose sleuthing in dusty record depositories shed light on some old literary puzzles, died on Monday at his home in North Branford, Conn. He was 95 years old.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Dr. Hotson gained instant recognition with his first book, "The Death of Christopher Marlowe," which chronicled the violent end of Shakespeare's greatest predecessor in 1593. That story had been shrouded in doubt and conjecture. Papers found in London's Public Records Office allowed Dr. Hotson to document who killed Marlowe, why and how. Dr. Hotson's book was published by the Harvard University Press in 1925. The latest reprint appeared last year.
        Next, Dr. Hotson unearthed the letters that Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote to his divorced wife Harriet.
        But it was chiefly as a Shakespearean detective that Dr. Hotson remained in the public eye, sometimes to the annoyance of rival scholars who discounted his theories. His early work produced evidence of Shakespeare's father as a wool dealer and illuminated Shakespeare's early years in Stratford-on-Avon. A Theory About the Sonnets
        Poring over Shakespeare's Sonnets, Dr. Hotson put forward the theory that the first 126 of them were composed for William Hatcliffe of Lincolnshire in 1587-89, when Shakespeare was in his mid-20's and had yet to write his first play. That theory became the subject of "Mr. W. H." (Alfred A. Knopf, 1964.)
        Dr. Hotson contended that Shakespeare's company had performed in what now is called central staging or theater in the round, with a platform at the center and the audience sitting around it. He made the point again in "The First Night of Twelfth Night" (Macmillan, 1954), a detailed account of the play's premiere. The Globe Theater, in his view, was a modified version in which the high-priced seats were found on the balcony behind the apron platform.
        Dr. Hotson was born in Delhi, Ontario. He attended Harvard University, earning B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. He taught at Harvard, Yale, New York University and, finally, from 1931 to 1942, at Haverford College. In World War II he served as an officer in the Signal Corps. After the war he spent much of his time doing research in England.
        He is survived by his wife of 73 years, the former Mary May Peabody.
      