
        Returning to the town where he spent his childhood, President Bush led more than 100 mourners who gathered here today for the funeral of his mother, Dorothy Walker Bush, who died Thursday at the age of 91.
        The President, who had arrived in a long motorcade from Westchester County Airport, briefly shed the trappings of office as the 45-minute Episcopal service ended. He stepped outside Christ Church, where his mother had been a member for more than 40 years, and remained there for about 20 minutes, embracing friends and family members and, at one point, raising his hands to acknowledge a smattering of applause from onlookers across the street.
        Several of his top aides, most of them longtime friends, attended the funeral as well. They included James A. Baker 3d, the chief of staff, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and Vice President Dan Quayle. The President's wife, Barbara, and their four sons and daughter, who is named for her grandmother, were present, as were Mr. Bush's brothers, Prescott Jr., Jonathan and William, and his sister, Nancy Ellis. Letter on Faith
        The service was led by three celebrants, including the retired 23d Presiding Bishop and Primate of the Episcopal Church of the United States, the Most Rev. John M. Allin. Bishop Allin is also the rector at the Church of St. Ann in Kennebunkport, Me., where Dorothy Walker and Prescott Bush were married in 1921 and where the President and his family attend services when at their summer house.
        Two organists provided music, and Prescott Bush Jr. read a letter that his mother had written, said Kelsey Bush Nadeau, one of Prescott Bush's daughters. In the letter Mrs. Bush discussed her faith and how it had sustained her, other mourners said.
        After a luncheon at his mother's house here, the President and other family members drove to Putnam Cemetery for a brief graveside service. As the sun shone amid springlike temperatures, Mrs. Bush's ashes were interred next to the grave of her husband, a former Senator from Connecticut who died in 1972. Next to their markers is a small white marble stone in memory of George and Barbara Bush's daughter, Pauline Robinson Bush, who died from leukemia in 1953 when she was 3 years old.
        After the services, which were closed to reporters, the President returned to Washington aboard an Air Force jet.
        Dorothy Bush, a native of Maine, was remembered by people here as a woman of athletic talent and grace. Some of the mourners were her bridge and tennis partners, and one person recalled that until a few years ago Mrs. Bush insisted on pedaling her bicycle along back roads near her house. She was also active in many charities, and one of them, the American Red Cross, flew its flags at half-staff today in her honor.
      