
        Helen Callaghan Candaele St. Aubin, the speedy outfielder whose swing won one batting title and inspired two movies about the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, died Tuesday night at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., at age 69. She died of breast cancer, according to her son Kelly Candaele, whose 1988 documentary about his mother's career, "A League of Their Own," inspired last summer's movie of the same name.
        During her four seasons in the women's league that was formed in 1943 as a wartime alternative to the talent-depleted men's league, Mrs. St. Aubin, who played under her original name, Helen Callaghan, batted .257 and stole 354 bases in 388 games.
        Mrs. St. Aubin was a native of Vancouver, British Columbia, who had been recruited at a Canadian softball tournament. Accompanied by her sister, Margie, who was sent by their father to keep an eye on her, she broke in with the expansion Minneapolis Millerettes in 1944 and was an immediate star. She stole 112 bases in 111 games, and her .287 batting average was the league's second highest.
        In 1945, when the team moved to Indiana and became the Fort Wayne Daisies, Mrs. St. Aubin, a left-handed batter, led the league with a .299 average and in extra-base hits (24), doubles (17) and home runs (3).
        She became ill in 1946 and sat out the 1947 season before returning for part of the 1948 season, her last, and she was never again as sharp at the plate. But she stole 114 bases in 111 games in 1946.
        Her former teammate Dottie Collins recalled yesterday how deceptive her appearance was on the field.
        "When she was playing -- running or throwing -- she looked so dainty, that's the only word for it," said Mrs. Collins, who recalled the 5-foot-1 1/4-inch, 115-pound outfielder as a "tiny" woman who was "strong."
        According to Mrs. Collins, the treasurer of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League Players Association, Mrs. St. Aubin's stance and swing are almost perfectly preserved in her son Casey Candaele, a switch-hitting infielder for the Houston Astros.
        She married Bobby Candaele during her career and gave birth to the first of their five sons before the 1948 season. They settled in Lompoc, Calif., where she became a cleaning staff supervisor at a local hospital. She and Mr. Candaele were eventually divorced, and she later married Ronald J. St. Aubin.
        The documentary Kelly Candaele and his friend Kim Wilson made in 1988 led directly to the movie starring Geena Davis and directed by Penny Marshall.
        In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      