
        Blanchette Ferry Hooker Rockefeller, a major benefactor of the Museum of Modern Art and the widow of John D. Rockefeller 3d, died on Sunday at her home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. She was 83 years old.
        A family spokesman said the cause of death was Alzheimer's disease complicated by pneumonia.
        For four decades, Mrs. Rockefeller was a regal presence in philanthropy, helping to attract financial support and volunteers for causes ranging from children's welfare to the Juilliard School. Lay Administrator
        But it was the Museum of Modern Art that was her predominant interest. She twice served as its president, although she insisted she had no curatorial expertise. "I'm not an expert on modern art," she once said, "just a person who has become interested."
        Still, as a lay administrator, as she called herself, she had a major impact on the museum, leading a successful fund-raising campaign that enabled it to complete an expansion that doubled its gallery space.
        These and other changes enabled the financially troubled museum to progress from a cultural institution dependent on the Rockefeller family and private support, to a more independent public institution attracting increased corporate and government support.
        In 1979, while she was president, an expansion plan generated a dispute over the practice of selling the air rights of the museum to an outside developer to secure needed funds.
        Mrs. Rockefeller, who upheld the sale, which brought in $17 million, was asked whether resorting to marketing techniques could be accomplished without jeopardizing the museum's standards.
        "I hope so," she replied. "I hope we're not going to sell our birthright just to raise money. We have to find ways of doing it that don't compromise the basic premise of the museum, the reason for its existence." Believer in Hard Work
        The innovative expansion program permitted the construction of a 52-story apartment tower at the Museum's 53d Street site, giving the museum additional exhibition space on lower floors. A law was also passed in Albany that, in effect, allowed the building's owners to give the museum a yearly sum that was the equivalent of taxes it would have paid to New York City. Other institutions have since copied that practice.
        As the museum's president, Mrs. Rockefeller also favored adding new and younger trustees to the museum board, warning that they should not be named simply because they had wealth. She said, "We want them to bring some real contribution, like hard work."
        Born in New York City on Oct. 2, 1909, Mrs. Rockefeller was heiress to the Ferry seed fortune through her mother. Her father was an engineer who became president of the Hooker Electro-Chemical Company.
        She attended Miss Chapin's School for Girls, where she was known as "Hookie," and then Vassar College, graduating with a degree in music in 1931. A year later, she married Mr. Rockefeller, the eldest of the five sons of John D. Rockefeller Jr.
        At 24, and newly married, she began her involvement in the city's charitable and civic activities, joining the Central Council of the Community Service Society, one of the country's oldest and largest private family and health agencies. She was the first woman elected vice chairman.
        She was a trustee of the Brearley School and of Vassar College, and she shared her husband's many philanthropic interests and his pleasure in collecting art. He was interested particularly in Asian art, and the Rockefeller homes were adorned with both Asian and American works. She once described their personal art collection as a "mishmash."
        Mr. Rockefeller left his Asian collection to the Asia Society, which he founded in 1956 to promote better relations between the Asian and American continents. He was killed in an automobile accident on July 10, 1978, before he fulfilled his plans to increase significantly his financial gifts to the society and its new building on Park Avenue.
        Mrs. Rockefeller was a member of the Asia Society's Gallery Advisory Committee and of the Japan Society's Gallery Advisory Committee. From 1974 to 1980, she was a member of the National Council on the Humanities and served on the New York State Council on the Arts. She was a member of the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society, the English-Speaking Union, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and other leading cultural institutions.
        She is survived by a son, Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, and three daughters, Sandra Ferry of Massachusetts, Hope Aldrich of New Mexico, and Alida R. Messinger of Minnesota.
        A memorial service will be held at the Riverside Church in Manhattan on Friday at 11 A.M. The family requests contributions be made to the Museum of Modern Art.
      