
        Richard J. Hughes, former New Jersey Governor and Chief Justice, was remembered more as friend and family man than as public official in a funeral today that was attended by hundreds of people whose lives he touched.
        The Right Rev. Leonard R. Toomey, who delivered the homily, recalled that in 1962 when Mr. Hughes moved into Morven, the former Governor's Mansion in Princeton, with his wife, Betty, and their 10 children, "the vibrancy of activity in that staid, old mansion made people think the Second Battle of Princeton since the Revolutionary War was being enacted."
        Monsignor Toomey said Mr. Hughes, who died Dec. 7 at age 83, was "a man devoid of sham or pettiness, a man for whom family was a source of joy and pride."
        Thousands of people attended the public viewing for the former Democratic governor on Sunday at St. Mary's Cathedral. Today, the Most Rev. John C. Reiss, Bishop of the Trenton Diocese, officiated at the funeral Mass at the Church of the Blessed Sacrament.
        At the service were all the men who succeeded him as Governor: William T. Cahill, Brendan T. Byrne, Thomas H. Kean and Jim Florio, as well the state's United States Senators, Bill Bradley and Frank R. Lautenberg. The funeral was also attended by state legislators, members of the state and Federal judiciary, former aides and Joseph and Julia Quinlan, the parents of Karen Ann Quinlan, the comatose woman for whom Mr. Hughes wrote the landmark legal decision allowing her parents to remove her from a respirator.
        Mr. Hughes was Governor from 1962 to 1970 and Chief Justice from 1973 to 1979.
        Mr. Hughes' children and grandchildren participated in the service. One son, John J. Hughes, a United States Magistrate, remembered his father's fondness for St. Thomas More. "My father was not just a man for all seasons, but for all people," Mr. Hughes said. So gregarious was his father that Mr. Hughes once asked him if there was anyone he truly despised.
        "My father said there was, and I thought I was in for some real father-and-son bonding as he revealed himself," Mr. Hughes said. "Then he said the man was Steve Garvey, but only when he played for Dodgers against his beloved Yankees."
        Mr. Hughes was interred in St. Mary's Cemetery in nearby Hamilton Township. After Bishop Reiss recited some final prayers, a pair of bagpipers, standing a short distance away, played "Danny Boy."
      