
        Frank E. Stinchfield, a leading orthopedic surgeon in hip replacement, died Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Stinchfield was honored as a surgeon, researcher, educator and medical administrator.
        He was among the first surgeons to restore normal functioning to arthritic hips by replacing diseased bone with a metal joint. He founded and was the first president of the Hip Society of the United States and the International Hip Society. Celebrated Patients
        His reputation drew celebrated patients. President Harry S. Truman dispatched him to Saudi Arabia in 1952 to consult on the treatment of King Ibu Saud. In 1959 he operated on Samuel Goldwyn, the movie producer, to remove damaged knee cartilage. He replaced Senator Margaret Chase Smith's left hip in 1968 and her right hip in 1970. In 1980 he and another doctor reset a broken collarbone for John V. Lindsay, the former New York City Mayor.
        Dr. Stinchfield was the first orthopedic surgeon to become president of the American College of Surgeons. He was also a past president of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, the American Board of Orthopedic Surgery and the American Board of Orthopedic Surgeons.
        Teaching at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, he was professor and chairman of the Orthopedic Surgery Department for 20 years. At one time, a third of the nation's orthopedic surgeons had studied in his postgraduate courses.
        Starting at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center as a resident in the late 1930's, Dr. Stinchfield became president of its medical board and a trustee. He also was its director of orthopedic surgery, director and chief surgeon of its New York Orthopedic Hospital division and medical director and surgeon in charge of its Institute for the Crippled and Disabled.
        Dr. Stinchfield retired from most of his posts in 1976 but continued his private practice and teaching until 1989.
        He was born in Warren, Minn., and by the age of 12 had his heart set on becoming a physician, he once recalled. After graduating from Carleton College in 1932, he earned his medical degree at Northwestern University.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Margaret Taylor; a son, Lee, of Manhattan; a brother, Grant, and two grandchildren.
      