
        Ed (Moose) Krause, the Notre Dame official who played football under Knute Rockne and coached under Frank Leahy before succeeding him as athletic director in 1949, died Thursday night after delivering a round of his customary cheer at the athletic department's annual Christmas party.
        He was 79, and according to his son Phil, "he just went to sleep and never woke up."
        Mr. Krause, who had apparently been in good health, had seemed to be on a first-name basis with virtually every Notre Dame athlete, coach and fan over the last 60 years.
        "I think the true legend of Notre Dame has just died," said Gerry Faust, a former football coach at the school. "They talk about Gipper, Rockne, the Four Horsemen, but I think he was the true legend."
        At a school whose major athletic decisions, such as selecting the head football coach, are made by the university's president and executive vice president, athletic directors have not been all-powerful figures, but Mr. Krause emerged as both a wise and respected subaltern during his 31-year tenure.
        "He was a roving ambassador both for the university and the athletic department," said John Heisler, the director of sports information, who described Mr. Krause as the best-known and best-loved Notre Dame figure of his era.
        It was an era that began in 1930, when Edward W. Krause, a native of Chicago, was recruited by Rockne for what turned out to be Rockne's final season as coach.
        A hulking tackle who came by his nickname honestly, Mr. Krause lettered in football for three years, was named an all-American and played in the first college All-Star game, against the Chicago Bears in 1934. But it was on the basketball court that the 6-foot-3-inch, 230-pounder, who also competed in track and baseball, truly excelled. A dominating center and three-year all-American who led the Irish to a combined 54-12 record, he was so invincible under the basket that the three-second rule, which limits the time a player can remain near the basket, was devised in his honor.
        After graduating summa cum laude with a degree in journalism, Mr. Krause went to St. Mary's College in Minnesota, where he coached football, basketball, baseball, track tennis and golf, and served as athletic director before returning to Notre Dame in 1942 as an assistant football and basketball coach.
        He spent a total of six seasons over eight years as head basketball coach, compiling a 98-48 mark, and even served as head football coach for two games when Leahy was ill.
        As athletic director emeritus since his retirement in 1980, Mr. Krause continued his devotion to Notre Dame. "He was right there at a table by the door," Heisler said, recalling the Christmas party, "saying hello to everybody who came by."
        In addition to his son, Phil, a real estate agent in South Bend, Ind., Mr. Krause, whose wife, Elizabeth, died in 1990, is survived by another son, Edward Jr., a priest at Gannon College in Erie, Pa.; a daughter, Mary Carrigan of Chicago, and five grandchildren.
      