
        Former Assemblyman George M. Michaels, who cast the deciding vote to liberalize New York's abortion law in 1970, thereby ending his political career, died on Thursday at his home in Auburn, N.Y. He was 80 years old.
        He died after a long illness, according to the Brew Funeral Home in Auburn.
        A Democrat, Mr. Michaels represented a largely rural, mostly conservative and heavily Roman Catholic constituency in the Finger Lakes region of west-central New York.
        That put him in a difficult position on the abortion issue. An 1832 state law forbade abortion except "when necessary to save a life." In the 1960's, legislation was introduced to make New York's law the most liberal in the nation, allowing abortion in the first 24 weeks of pregnancy if a woman and her doctor agreed to it. The proposal became the most dramatic, contentious and emotional issue before the 1970 Legislature.
        A groundswell for change in abortion laws, which dated to the 19th century, had been building in the country. In 1965, Colorado became the first state to lessen the restrictions on abortion. A Reversal of Conscience
        Mr. Michaels personally favored a woman's right to choose but had voted against the proposed law twice at the behest of the Cayuga County Democratic Committee. He did so at the beginning of April 1970 when the bill went down to a narrow defeat.
        But on April 9, he realized that the measure was doomed without his support. He rose to take the microphone, his hands trembling. "I realize, Mr. Speaker, that I am terminating my political career, but I cannot in good conscience sit here and allow my vote to be the one that defeats this bill," he declared. "I ask that my vote be changed from 'no' to 'yes.' "
        His tearful reversal provided the 76th vote needed for passage. The State Senate quickly added its approval and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller signed the bill into law. "I found myself caught up in something bigger than I am," Mr. Michaels said about his agonizing decision. "I'm just a small country lawyer."
        Mr. Michaels sought a sixth term that year, but piqued county leaders denied him renomination and he lost the June primary in a four-way race.
        First elected in 1960, Mr. Michaels pushed for aid to education, especially for rural school districts, and was active in the area of penal laws.
        He also sponsored the bill that made the bluebird the official state bird.
        Mr. Michaels was born in College Point, Queens, and graduated from Cornell University. He received his law degree from Brooklyn Law School before going into practice in Auburn. During World War II, he enlisted as a private in the Marine Corps and returned as a decorated captain.
        Mr. Michaels is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Helen Wetzler; three sons, Lee S., of Skaneateles, N.Y., Rabbi James R., of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and William S., of Denver, and eight grandchildren.
      