
        Stephen J. Albert, a composer of lushly scored, dramatic symphonic music who won the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for his "Symphony Riverrun" was killed on Sunday afternoon in an automobile accident in Truro, Mass. He was 51 years old and had homes in Newton Center, Mass., and in Truro, on Cape Cod.
        Mr. Albert was pronounced dead at the scene of the accident, said Sgt. John Thomas of the Truro Police Department. Mr. Albert's wife, Marilyn, and son, Joshua, were taken to Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. A daughter, Katie, was not injured.
        Mr. Albert worked in several styles since the late 1960's, when he made his first impact with atonal and electronic works. By the mid-1970's, he began moving away from experimentalism and toward a neo-Romantic use of tonality and instrumental color. Many of his recent works, including his prize-winning symphony, have been based on sections of James Joyce's novels "Finnegans Wake" and "Ulysses." And, influenced by the rhythms of Joyce's quirkily descriptive language, Mr. Albert moved toward an expressive style in which lyricism and shifting textures were paramount. An Affinity for Literature
        Stephen Joel Albert was born in New York City on Feb. 6, 1941, and wrote his first pieces when he was 13 years old. He studied composition privately with Elie Siegmeister from 1956 to 1958 and with Darius Milhaud in 1958. In the early 1960's, he continued his studies at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, the Philadelphia Musical Academy and the University of Pennsylvania. He won the Rome Prize for composition in 1965 and 1966 and two Guggenheim Fellowships, in 1967 and 1978.
        His first professional post was a one-year residency with the Lima, Ohio, public school system in 1967. He later taught at the Philadelphia Musical Academy, Stanford University and Smith College. In recent years, he was on the faculty of Boston University and the Juilliard School.
        Mr. Albert was always drawn to literature, even in his early, experimental music. Among his earliest published works are "Supernatural Songs" (1964), a collection of Yeats settings for soprano and chamber orchestra; "Winter Songs" (1965), and "Bacchae" (1970), a setting of Euripedes for solo voices and an eclectic band that included electric guitars and saxophones.
        His first musical encounter with the Joyce books was "To Wake the Dead" (1977-78), a cycle of six songs and an instrumental interlude, for soprano and a chamber ensemble. Another song cycle, "Tree Stone" (1983-84) continued the series and expanded his palette to include a shimmering chamber orchestra fabric. And in "Riverrun" (1983-85), Mr. Albert momentarily abandoned vocal text setting without leaving aside his interest in Joyce. The four-movement work uses texture and orchestral color to paint a vivid picture of the Liffey River in Ireland. Recent Works
        "Riverrun" was given its world premiere by the National Symphony Orchestra under Mstislav Rostropovich in 1985. Mr. Rostropovich and his orchestra recorded the work for Delos Records in 1987, and it was the only work by a living composer that Mr. Rostropovich included in his 1990 tour of the Soviet Union and Japan.
        After "Riverrun," Mr. Albert turned to Joyce's "Ulysses" for "Flower on the Mountain" (1985), a setting of Molly Bloom's final soliloquy. Last year, he incorporated "Flower" into "Distant Hills Coming Nigh," an expansion that includes Leopold Bloom's reflections on Molly.
        Among Mr. Albert's recent orchestral works are a violin concerto, "In Concordiam" (1986); "Wind Canticle" (1992) for clarinet and orchestra, and a Concerto for Cello and Orchestra (1990).
        Yo-Yo Ma, who commissioned the cello concerto, is to give the work its first New York performances at the 92d Street Y on Feb. 24 and 25 with Laurence Foster and the New York Chamber Symphony. Mr. Albert was also at work on a symphonic piece for the New York Philharmonic.
        In addition to his wife, son and daughter, Mr. Albert is survived by a brother, Arthur, and his mother, Mrs. Sidney Albert.
      