
        Isaac L. Auerbach, an early advocate of computer technology, died on Thursday at his home in Lower Merion, Pa. He was 71 years old.
        He died of leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Auerbach played a role in several advances in early computer technology, such as the computerization of the ballistic missile early warning system and of an airline reservation system and in developing communication between different computers.
        A frequent speaker on the benefits of computerization, Mr. Auerbach set up the International Federation for Information Processing in 1960 and frequently called computer experts together to explore possible cooperation and business ventures.
        Mr. Auerbach began his career as a research engineer at Sperry Univac, where he was a member of the team that developed the company's first computers. He joined the Burroughs Corporation in 1949 and headed its Defense, Space and Special Projects division, where he worked on the first real-time computer guidance system for the United States space program.
        He left Burroughs in 1957 to set up his own company, the Auerbach Corporation for Science and Technology, which spawned a dozen subsidiary companies including a computer publishing concern and international business ventures.
        He was chief executive of Auerbach until 1982 but remained active in various business ventures until his death. He developed 16 patents in computer technology over the years and was elected to the National Academy of Engineers in 1974.
        Mr. Auerbach was raised in Philadelphia and attended Drexel University, where he earned a degree in electrical engineering in 1943 and where he became vice chairman of the board of trustees in 1990. He served in the Navy from 1943 to 1946 and earned a master's degree in applied physics from Harvard University in 1947.
        An active member of the Jewish Federation of Greater Philadelphia, he became its vice president in 1990. He became chairman of the Philadelphia chapter of American Associates of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, and became vice governor of that university's board of governors in 1988.
        He is survived by his wife, Carol; a daughter, Rachel, of Philadelphia; two sons, A. Philip, of Philadelphia, and Philip B., of San Francisco.
      