
        Vincent Gardenia, a character actor known for his work in theater and television and his supporting roles in the films "Bang the Drum Slowly" and "Moonstruck," was found dead yesterday in his hotel room in Philadelphia. He was 71 years old and lived in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.
        He died of a heart attack after appearing in a preview performance of the play "Breaking Legs," which is on tour, said Jeffrey Richards, the publicity agent for the play.
        Beginning in the mid-1950's, Mr. Gardenia played a wide variety of roles on the New York stage, but he was best known for his comic turns in the Neil Simon plays "God's Favorite" (1974), "California Suite" (1976) and "The Prisoner of Second Avenue" (1971).
        He took a workmanlike approach to the craft of acting and a man-in-the-street attitude to the study of human behavior. 'Acting Is Like Storage'
        "You play for truth," he told an interviewer for The New York Times in 1974. In playing the part of a police detective in the film "Death Wish," he said, he drew on memories of a one-time chief of detectives in New York he had often seen on television. "Acting is like storage," he said. "If you're touched by something, it stays with you."
        Mr. Gardenia, whose original name was Vincent Scognamiglio, was born in Naples. He took his professional name from his father, an actor and manager named Gennaro Gardenia Scognamiglio. When Vincent was 2, the family immigrated to the United States and settled in Brooklyn, and his father established an Italian-language acting troupe that specialized in melodramas. "The titles changed, but they were usually about a son or daughter who gets in trouble, runs away, then begs forgiveness," Mr. Gardenia said.  On and Off Broadway
        At the age of 5, he made his stage debut in his father's company as a shoeshine boy, and while still a teen-ager he was playing character roles. He continued acting in the company until 1960, five years after he took his first English-language stage role.
        Mr. Gardenia first spoke English onstage in 1955, as a pirate in the Broadway play "In April Once." The next year, he appeared as Piggy in "The Man With the Golden Arm." He later appeared in roles in "A Streetcar Named Desire," "Stalag 17," "My Three Angels" and "Camino Real." His Off Broadway credits included "Volpone" and "End Game."
        In the 1950's, Mr. Gardenia also appeared in many television dramas, including "Body and Soul," and in the series "Naked City."
        In 1960, he won an Obie Award for his performance in "Machinal" as a fatuous husband who is murdered by his wife. A second Obie came with the play "Passing Through From Exotic Places" (1969).
        He won a Tony Award for his performance as Peter Falk's brother in "The Prisoner of Second Avenue" (1971). At the awards ceremony, he paid tribute to his father's acting company by giving his acceptance speech in Italian.
        He was nominated for a Tony for his work in the Michael Bennett musical "Ballroom" (1978). More recently, he appeared in the role of Shelley Levene in David Mamet's "Glengarry Glen Ross" (1984). Meriting Oscar Nominations
        Mr. Gardenia's film career began inauspiciously with a small part in "Cop Hater" (1958), but over the years he became a reliable and welcome presence on screen. His many films include "The Hustler" (1961), "Little Murders" (1971), based on the Jules Feiffer play in which he had appeared on Broadway in 1969, "The Front Page" (1974), "Heaven Can Wait" (1978), "Little Shop of Horrors" (1986) and "The Super" (1991).
        In 1973, Mr. Gardenia was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actor for his role as Dutch, the baseball manager in "Bang the Drum Slowly." He received a second Oscar nomination for his performance as Cher's philandering father in "Moonstruck" (1987).
        He continued to work in television, playing Archie Bunker's neighbor in "All in the Family" and J. Edgar Hoover in the mini-series "Kennedy" (1983). He also appeared in the series "Breaking Away" (1980-81), and more recently in "L.A. Law." In 1990, he won an Emmy Award as best supporting actor for the HBO special "Age-Old Friends."
        He is survived by a brother, Ralph.
      