
        Lieut. Gen. Garrison Holt Davidson, who led task forces in World War II and the Korean War and later served as commander of the General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., the United States Military Academy at West Point and the Seventh Army in Europe, died on Friday in Oakland, Calif. He was 88 years old.
        General Davidson, who retired in 1964 and lived in Oakland, died of natural causes at Oak Knoll Naval Hospital, where he was admitted earlier in the week, his family said.
        In a wide-ranging military career that began near the top of his graduating class at West Point in 1927 and spanned four decades and two wars, General Davidson helped to plan and carry out strategic breakthroughs in North Africa and Europe in World War II and in the Korean War
        He also coached the Army football team, modernized curriculums at the staff college and West Point, held major commands in Europe during the Berlin Crisis and the Cuban Missile Crisis, commanded the First Army at Governors Island in New York and was the nation's military representative at the United Nations. Army Football Coach
        A square-jawed, athletic man who favored initiative over spit-and-polish in combat forces and football teams, General Davidson coached Army from 1933 to 1938, compiling a record of 35 victories, 11 defeats and 1 tie. His later record in combat and peacetime commands was widely praised by colleagues. He was promoted to Brigadier General in 1943, to Major General in 1952 and to the three-star rank of Lieutenant General in 1957.
        During World War II, he was Gen. George S. Patton's engineering officer in campaigns that drove German forces from North Africa and Sicily. Later, as an aide to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, he selected the site for the allied invasion of the Cote d'Azur in France, which was hit in 1944 in coordination with the Normandy invasion.
        From 1946 to 1950, General Davidson was chief of staff to Gen. Mark Clark's Sixth Army, headquartered at the Presidio in San Francisco.
        During the Korean War in 1950 and 1951, he commanded several United Nations task forces in battle against North Korean and Chinese troops.
        After several years as a weapons system analyst at the Pentagon, General Davidson was commander of the Army's Command and General Staff College from 1954 to 1956. As superintendent of the United States Military Academy at West Point from 1956 to 1960, he revised the curriculum to provide a broader liberal arts education for cadets. Roles in Missile Crises
        From 1960 to 1962, he was Commanding General of the Seventh Army in Europe, and was responsible for mobilizing forces in the Berlin and Cuban Missile Crises. He reorganized the Seventh Army, decentralizing many command responsibilities to field levels.
        For two years before his retirement in 1964, General Davidson was commander of the First Army -- including all active and reserve forces in New York, New Jersey and six New England states -- with headquarters at Governors Island. He also served for a year as military adviser to the American mission at the United Nations.
        Born in the Bronx on April 24, 1904, Garrison Holt Davidson attended Stuyvesant High School, where he played on a state championship football team. At West Point, where he began his military career as a cadet in 1923, he was a three-year letterman on the varsity football team. In 1934, he married Verone Gruenther Davidson, whose brother, Alfred M. Gruenther, served as the Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in Europe in 1953.
        Besides his wife, General Davidson is survived by three sons, Garrison Holt Jr., of Los Angeles, Thomas M., of Darien, Conn., and Alan R., of Sarasota, Fla.; three daughters, Linda L. Hurst, of San Luis Obispo, Calif., and Bonnie Elaine Bardellini and Gail Marie Davidson, both of Martinez, Calif.; 14 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      