
        The Rev. J. Robert Williams, whose ordination in 1989 by the Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark caused consternation in the Episcopal Church because he was an avowed homosexual, died on Thursday in Boston. He was 37.
        He died at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston of an AIDS-related pulmonary infection, said Joseph Walker, a spokesman for the J. S. Waterman Funeral Home. Mr. Williams had lived in Boston for about a year.
        Mr. Williams was not the first gay person to become a priest in the Episcopal Church, but apparently the first to speak openly about his sexual orientation before his ordination, church officials said at the time. Forced to Resign
        Soon after his ordination, he was forced to resign as director of a Hoboken ministry for homosexuals because of comments he made questioning monogamy and celibacy.
        Born on July 21, 1955, in Abilene, Tex., and raised as a Southern Baptist, Mr. Williams graduated from Hardin-Simmons University in 1977 and worked for several years as a journalist in Dallas and Fort Worth. While living in Dallas, he founded a chapter of Integrity, the national association of gay and lesbian Episcopalians. He received his Master of Divinity degree from the Episcopal Divinity School in 1988.
        Bishop John S. Spong, head of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark, had ordained Mr. Williams on Dec. 16, 1989, over the strong protests of traditionalist Episcopal bishops and church members who argued that the ordination would disregard Christian moral standards. In a letter written then, Bishop Spong said that with Mr. Williams's ordination, the church had taken "a step into honesty and integrity."
        Six weeks later, the directors of the Oasis, the ministry for homosexuals that Mr. Williams directed, asked him to resign after he questioned the church's official policy of approving sex only within marriage and criticized obligatory celibacy for gay clergy as unnatural and spiritually inhibiting. Studies Cut Short
        After his resignation from the Oasis, he began working toward a doctorate in human sexuality at New York University. But his studies were cut short by the onset of AIDS-related illness. He moved to Provincetown, Mass., in the spring of 1991 and founded a group for the study of Christian healing.
        Mr. Williams clarified his position on sexual relationships in his book, "Just As I Am: A Practical Guide to Being Out, Proud and Christian" (Crown, 1991). He later left the Episcopal Church to join the Western Orthodox Catholic Church in America, a small independent denomination.
        He is survived by his companion, Kevin McKowen of Boston; his grandparents, Jean and William Gollaher and Helen Williams; his father and stepmother, Robert and Patsy Williams, and his sister, Lynette Bondick, all of West Texas.
      