
        Ellis G. Arnall, who sliced through red tape and Southern tradition as Governor of Georgia from 1943 to 1947, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 85 years old.
        He died of pneumonia at Emory University's Wesley Woods Health Care Center, where he had lived for two years since suffering a stroke, his family said.
        "I have never wanted anything I haven't got," he said once, "but I have sense enough to know what I can't get." Progressive Record
        A Democrat, he compiled a progressive record in his one term as Governor. He won a fight to abolish the $1-a-year poll tax as a voting requirement, lowered the voting age to 18 and took his case for fair freight rates in the South to the United States Supreme Court.
        He was elected Governor when he was 35 and was considered the boy wonder of Georgia politics. Short (5 feet 6 inches) and stocky (190 pounds), he got his first taste of politicking in Alabama, where his grandfather was a state legislator and where he worked as a page at the State Capitol when he was 12. By the time he was 25, he was a full-fledged member of the Georgia Legislature.
        But first he attended the University of Georgia, where he was elected president of his class, his legal fraternity, the interfraternity council, the student body and the campus Gridiron Club. Then, after a couple of years as a lawyer, he ran for the Georgia House against five opponents who together received 232 votes to his 2,546.
        He had been Governor only only a few weeks when the Legislature approved the changes he had demanded during his campaign against Eugene Talmadge, a three-time incumbent. His 10-point campaign platform was pushed through the Legislature in less than two weeks.
        The 10 points included legislation intended to win reaccreditation for Georgia's colleges, which had been blacklisted under Mr. Talmadge. Mr. Arnall also advocated setting up a new state pardon and parole board to "clean up the pardon racket," removing the Governor from state boards that gave him "dictatorial" power. Fighting the Railroads
        Almost immediately the accrediting associations reinstated Georgia. Mr. Arnall went on to win increased aid to schools for blacks and whites. He also ended the state's harsh system of prison chain gangs.
        Mr. Arnall had also promised to end political meddling in Georgia's college system. During his term, the General Assembly removed the governor from the Board of Regents and staggered other members' terms so no governor could pack the board with his appointees.
        In 1945 he accused 19 railroads of conspiracy to discriminate on freight rates, which averaged 39 percent higher on manufactured goods in the South than in the North. He appeared before the United States Supreme Court in person, a carnation in his lapel. That brought a note from President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who said, "I hear from all sides that your appearance was excellent."
        President Harry S. Truman offered him the job of Solicitor General later that year, but Mr. Arnall declined, citing his obligation to the voters who had elected him. Under Georgia's constitution, he could not run for a second term in 1946.
        After his term ended he founded a law firm in Atlanta, became president of the Independent Motion Picture Producers Association, wrote a book and lectured until President Truman named him to head the Office of Price Stabilization in 1952, during the Korean War.
        "I heard it described as the meanest job in Washington," he said, "and that sort of tickled my fancy. I wouldn't want to just come here, you know, and sit at a big desk and not have much to do. I like excitement."
        He refused to permit steel companies a price increase beyond the $3 a ton to which they were entitled under the law. His decision set off a chain of events: the steel companies refused to grant wage increases recommended by the Wage Stabilization Board; the workers threatened to strike, and President Truman seized the steel mills. 'Threatened Not to Quit'
        "I didn't threaten to quit," Mr. Arnall said. "I threatened not to quit."
        Mr. Arnall ran for governor again in 1966, losing the Democratic primary to Lester G. Maddox, a militant segregationist. But in the election that fall, write-in votes gave Mr. Arnall 6 percent of the total and kept Mr. Maddox and his Republican challenger, Howard H. Callaway, from getting a majority. The election was thrown into the Georgia Assembly, which elected Mr. Maddox.
        Mr. Arnall's first wife, Mildred, died in 1980. He is survived by his second wife, Ruby; a son, Alvan, of Atlanta; a brother, Frank, of Jacksonville, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      