
        Mark Goodson, who turned his curiosity into a television institution, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77.
        He died of pancreatic cancer, said his son, Jonathan Goodson of Los Angeles.
        In a radio and television career that lasted more than half a century, Mr. Goodson devised and produced dozens of game shows, including most of the best-known and longest-running games in television history.
        Among the titles that carried the production label of Mark Goodson and his longtime partner, Bill Todman, were "What's My Line?," "To Tell the Truth," "The Price Is Right," "Family Feud," "I've Got a Secret," "Concentration" and "The Match Game."
        Since 1950 there has never been one week of television without a Mark Goodson game show on the air. That run of success enabled Mr. Goodson to amass a personal fortune of several hundred million dollars.
        This month, Mr. Goodson was selected for induction into the Hall of Fame of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. He had previously won an Emmy Award for lifetime achievement. Partnership Lasted Decades
        Mr. Goodson was born in Sacramento, Calif., to Russian immigrants. After a Depression-era youth, which left him with a lifelong fear of falling back into poverty, Mr. Goodson put himself through the University of California at Berkeley by working and earning scholarships.
        He started in radio in San Francisco in 1937. Two years later, he created his first game show, "Pop the Question," in which contestants tossed darts at balloons to select questions.
        Mr. Goodson moved to New York in 1941. He met Bill Todman while both worked on "Battle of the Boroughs," a quiz program at WABC radio.
        They teamed up, with Mr. Goodson doing the creative work on games and Mr. Todman as the salesman. In 1946, they sold a game called "Winner Take All" to WCBS radio, beginning their game-show empire.
        The partnership lasted until Mr. Todman's death in 1979, although the men were estranged in later years. One colleague said Mr. Goodson came to resent the fact that Mr. Todman was still a partner in the games Mr. Goodson created, even though he had long since stopped needing a salesman. But Mr. Goodson was described as too loyal ever to seek to dissolve the partnership.
        In succeeding years, Mr. Goodson created "Stop the Music" and "Hit the Jackpot" for radio. But his career took off with his first television venture, a game that grew out of Mr. Goodson's wondering whether people could tell what strangers did in life just by looking at them.
        The game that emerged, "What's My Line?," began on CBS television in 1950, when Mr. Goodson was 35. It ran for 17 years on Sundays at 10:30 P.M., one of the early staples of television-viewing in America.
        As with his other shows, Mr. Goodson personally selected the host for that program, John Daly, as well as three regular panelists, the actress Arlene Francis, the newspaper columnist Dorothy Kilgallen and the Random House publisher Bennett Cerf.
        For the most part, he filled his early games with his New York friends. In 1956, he created what he later called his favorite show, "To Tell the Truth," based on contestants' bluffing a celebrity panel about whether they were who they said they were. For that show, he brought in another friend, Kitty Carlisle Hart, as one of the panelists.
        Mrs. Hart said in a recent telephone interview that Mr. Goodson's strength was the cleverness he used to devise a game and the meticulous care he took with every element of its production. "He had infinite attention to detail," she said. "He was also a very good picker of people."
        Although Mr. Goodson introduced many of game shows' familiar elements, including buzzers, bells and the notion of a "returning champion," his games were usually simple, easy to play and not driven by promises of big money or prizes. (Contestants received all of $5 for each unsuccessful question from the panel on "What's My Line?")
        The formula proved especially advantageous in the mid-1950's, when scandals about rigged questions hit bigger-money games like "21." Goodson-Todman games were known to be scrupulously clean, and the company thrived even more after the scandals broke.
        Mr. Goodson was married and divorced three times and lived on two coasts for most of his life, although he was a regular on the New York social scene and lived on Beekman Place. He avoided vacations and worried endlessly about whether his company's next year would be as successful as its last.
        Despite his enormous success, Mr. Goodson often expressed some regret about the field in which it had come. He told one interviewer in 1978: "One of the prices I pay is that the game-show business is essentially without status. I regret it and resent it. The first thing people ask is, why is somebody as literate and articulate as you in games? It's like saying, why is an engineer taking out the garbage?"
        Some friends used to urge him to branch out, and he occasionally tried, producing television drama shows, including "The Rebel" and "The Richard Boone Repertory Theater." One friend said he really should have been a theatrical producer.
        In recent years, Mr. Goodson used profits from his television earnings and real-estate holdings to invest in community newspapers. His Goodson Newspaper Group owned The New Haven Register from 1986 to 1989.
        Mrs. Hart said: "Mark used to say that the television audience was like a snowflake. One by one they stick to the screen, and all of a sudden the whole screen is covered in snowflakes."
        In addition to his son, Mr. Goodson is survived by two daughters, Jill Goodson Bishop of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Marjorie Goodson Cutt of Los Angeles; a brother, Marvin, of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
        A family funeral is to be held on Tuesday in Los Angeles. Memorial services are to be held in January in New York and Los Angeles.
      