
        Thomas W. (Teddy) Gleason, who as president of the International Longshoremen's Association for 24 years held an iron grip on the docks of both the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, only to see that grip pried open by containerized shipping, died on Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 92.
        Mr. Gleason, who lived in Manhattan, was in the hospital's coronary care unit when he died. But a hospital spokeswoman, Gisele Roberge, could not provide the exact cause of death.
        A fireplug of a man at five feet, six inches and 180 pounds, Mr. Gleason was alternately described during his heyday as "hard as nails" and "smooth as silk." He could be gracious, pleasant and courteous or could uncork a torrent of language suitable for the waterfront.
        He always felt that his greatest achievement as president of the I.L.A. was the guaranteed annual income he won for union members, beginning in 1964. This allowed hundreds of longshoremen to collect as much as $32,000 a year for doing no work after their jobs were eliminated by containerization, a process in which goods are shipped in large containers so that the need for workers to load and unload is substantially reduced. 'Everything We Fought For'
        Although costly, the guaranteed income was preferred by both the shipping industry and the union to the old shape-up when dock work was day labor, when 7 to 10 men would bid for each job each morning and who got the job was often determined by kickbacks and violence.
        When he went to work alongside his father in 1915, Mr. Gleason was paid 35 cents an hour. By 1985, members of the I.L.A. were making a minimum of $17 an hour. "We got everything we fought for," Mr. Gleason said at the time of his retirement in 1987.
        In 1915, Mr. Gleason walked down Charles Street, where the family lived in a succession of cold-water flats, to sling bales on the docks alongside his father. The oldest of 13 children, Mr. Gleason left school after the seventh grade. He was one of the youngest full-fledged dockworkers in New York.
        The son and grandson of longshoremen, he was one of the last of a generation of trade unionists, including the Reuther brothers in the automobile industry and James R. Hoffa of the teamsters, who developed their organizing and political skills during the bitter labor conflicts of the 1920's and 1930's. 'Just a Gang of Rebels'
        In 1919, Mr. Gleason joined the I.L.A., which was then, he said, "just a gang of rebels." Over the years he worked as a checker, a billing clerk, longshoreman, winch driver, truck loader and timekeeper. By 1932, he had advanced to dock superintendent.
        That year, in the depths of the Depression, he was blacklisted by the stevedoring companies and the steamship lines because of his union activities. To support his family, he took a job pushing a hand truck in a sugar factory during the day and sold hot dogs at Coney Island at night.
        With the coming of the New Deal and the legalization of union activity on the docks, Mr. Gleason returned to both his trade and his union activities. Soon he became president and business agent of Checkers Local 1346 of the I.L.A. Later, the local merged with three others to form Local 1, with Mr. Gleason as president.
        In 1953, the I.L.A. was expelled from the American Federation of Labor over corruption. The president, Joseph P. Ryan, resigned and Capt. William Bradley, with Mr. Gleason's support, was elected president. Mr. Gleason was elected general organizer. In 1961, he became executive vice president and two years later was elected president after reportedly pressuring Captain Bradley to resign.
        Mr. Gleason served six consecutive four-year terms as president of the I.L.A., retiring in July 1987. His Stubborn Side
        The world saw Mr. Gleason's stubborn side when in 1963 he opposed the Kennedy Administration's proposal to sell surplus wheat to the Soviet Union. He relented when the Government agreed that half of the grain ships would be American.
        When the Johnson Administration reneged on that agreement, Mr. Gleason began a dockworkers' boycott of the Soviet-bound wheat. He called it off after eight days.
        During the Vietnam War, Mr. Gleason made four trips to Saigon to help relieve port congestion. Later, he performed similar duties at Mombasa in Kenya.
        If Mr. Gleason seemed to have changed little since the days he traveled in a bulletproof car and angered Presidents, by the time of his retirement the union was a shadow of what it once was. It still represented dockworkers along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, but membership -- around 110,000 -- was less than half of the 250,000 from before automation.
        Mr. Gleason was a lifelong supporter of Irish-American causes, and in 1984, he was named grand marshal of the St. Patrick's Day parade in New York.
        Mr. Gleason's wife, Emma, died in 1960. He is survived by three sons, Thomas Jr., John and Robert; 15 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      