
        Frank D. O'Connor, a retired judge of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court who served as the Queens District Attorney and later as President of the City Council, died yesterday at Booth Memorial Hospital in Flushing, Queens. He was 82 years old.
        Judge O'Connor died from head injuries he suffered 13 days ago when he fell down a flight of stairs at his home in Jamaica Estates.
        The judge, an unabashed liberal, had run for governor against Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1966. After that election, Mr. Rockefeller said of his Democratic opponent, "He never even told one lie about me." As a prosecutor, Judge O'Connor was an ardent supporter of defendants' rights, throwing out cases when he felt the evidence was uncorroborated.
        Mr. O'Connor was born on the West Side of Manhattan on Dec. 20, 1909, the son of Irish immigrants, James and Margaret O'Connor. The family moved to Elmhurst, Queens, the following year.  Defended 'The Wrong Man'
        Judge O'Connor graduated from Niagara University in 1932, working his way through college as a lifeguard. He received his law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1934. During World War II, he served as a lieutenant in the Coast Guard.
        In 1953, when he was a State Senator but also a defense lawyer, Mr. O'Connor gained national attention when he defended Christopher Emanuel Balestrero, a musician at the Stork Club who had been wrongfully accused of two holdups in Queens. Mr. O'Connor found 23 witnesses to support Mr. Balestrero's insistence of innocence in the face of positive identifications by three victims. Soon after, a man who nearly matched Mr. Balestrero's description was arrested and confessed.
        Three years later, Alfred Hitchcock directed a movie, "The Wrong Man," based on the case, which starred Henry Fonda as the accused and Anthony Quayle as his lawyer.
        Mr. O'Connor had been elected to the State Senate in 1948 from what was then the Sixth Senatorial District, which ran across the borough from Astoria to Bayside. In 1952, Mr. O'Connor lost his seat in the Eisenhower landslide, but returned to the Senate in 1954. Prosecuted Genovese Killer
        Three years later, Mr. O'Connor was elected the Queens District Attorney. During his nine-year tenure, his office successfully prosecuted Winston Moseley, the killer of Kitty Genovese, the young woman whose cries for help on a Kew Gardens street went unheeded by at least 38 residents.
        Although a prosecutor, Mr. O'Connor remained, in his words, "defense-conscious." Four times he recommended that grand juries throw out robbery cases where the only evidence was the victim's testimony.
        Mr. O'Connor was Queens District Attorney until January 1966, when he was elected President of the City Council. During his three years in that post, he championed the somewhat unpopular cause of scattering public housing throughout the city, and unsuccessfully tried to establish an ombudsman's office for the city.
        As Council President, he took another unpopular position: favoring a civilian complaint review board for the Police Department. The stand cost him the usual Democratic plurality in the city when he ran for Governor in 1966 against Mr. Rockefeller. Mr. O'Connor lost the election by 390,000 votes -- the smallest victory margin in Governor Rockefeller's four campaigns.
        In 1968, Mr. O'Connor was elected a State Supreme Court justice in Queens, serving on that bench until 1976, when Governor Hugh L. Carey appointed him to the Appellate Division. He retired from the appellate bench in 1986.
        Judge O'Connor is survived by his wife, Mary, and three sons, Dr. Kevin O'Connor of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.; Thomas, of Virginia, and Terrence of Forest Hills, Queens, and two brothers, the Rev. Charles O'Connor in Germantown, Pa., and Vincent O'Connor of Massapequa, L.I.
      