
        Sir Sidney Nolan, one of Australia's best-known and most influential postwar artists, died on Friday in London. He was 75 years old and lived in Herefordshire, in southwest England.
        British newspapers reported that Sir Sidney had been suffering from pneumonia and died of a heart attack.
        Sir Sidney, the son of a tram driver, was born in Melbourne, Australia, on April 22, 1917. At age 14 he began studying design at a technical college. His first job was as a poster-painter for a hat company.
        The paintings in his first one-man show, held in his studio in Melbourne in 1940, were abstract, but over the next several years his storytelling instincts won out. He evolved a somewhat expressionistic representational style that captured the hallucinatory bleakness of the Australian outback, a landscape that, in his hands, seemed populated primarily by dead animals and outlaws. The Outlaw as Black Box
        His most famous series of paintings, which he began in the late 1940's and returned to in the mid-1950's, narrated the adventures of Ned Kelly, a 19th-century Australian outlaw. In most of these paintings, Kelly's head is depicted as a black square, a shape that suggests an early camera, a television set and a kind of torture device. Although Sir Sidney's style developed independently, his exaggerated painterliness and distorted bodies bore some relationship to postwar figurative styles in Europe and America, including the work of Francis Bacon, Jean Dubuffet and Leonard Baskin.
        In 1947 the art historian Kenneth Clark saw the artist's work in a group exhibition in Melbourne and urged him to exhibit in London. He did so in 1951 at the Redfern Gallery. He moved to England in 1955, after which he spent most of his time there or traveling the world.
        In addition to painting and printmaking, Sir Sidney designed ballet sets for Serge Lifar's ballet "Icarus" (1941) and Kenneth MacMillan's productions of "The Rite of Spring"(1962) and "Samson and Delilah" (1986).
        Sir Sidney was knighted in 1981 and made a member of the Order of Merit in 1983.
        His first marriage, to Elizabeth Patterson, ended in divorce. His second wife, the writer Cynthia Nolan, committed suicide in 1976.
        He is survived by his third wife, Mary.
      