
        Vincent Fourcade, a New York-based decorator known for opulent Victorian interiors that epitomized the lavish style of the 1980's, died on Wednesday at his home in Paris. He was 58.
        He died of AIDS, said his partner, Robert Denning.
        During his 35-year career, Mr. Fourcade and Mr. Denning decorated elaborate homes in both the United States and Europe with richly patterned walls of brocades or velvets, tasseled curtains, fringed lampshades and grand French furniture.
        Their interiors came to be known as the Style Rothschild, which was frequently copied around the world. Indeed, a home decorated by Denning & Fourcade became such a symbol of wealth and social status that the apartment decorated for the movie version of Tom Wolfe's novel "The Bonfire of the Vanities" was patterned after one of Denning & Fourcade's designs. First Clients
        Michel David-Weil, the senior partner of Lazard Freres & Company, and his wife, Helene, were the first clients of Mr. Fourcade and Mr. Denning. They worked with the David-Weils on homes for their entire 35-year partnership.
        Over the years, Mr. Denning and Mr. Fourcade also decorated homes for the financier Henry Kravis and his wife, the fashion designer Carolyne Roehm; Lillian Phipps, wife of Ogden Phipps, the horse breeder; Antenor Patino, the Bolivian tin magnate, and his wife, Beatriz; the singer Diana Ross; Susanna Agnelli, mayor of Porto Santo Stefano in Italy, and the fashion designer Oscar de la Renta.
        Mr. Fourcade grew up in Paris. He was the son of Jean Fourcade, a banker and industrialist. Although he had no formal education, he went to New York in 1957 to begin a career in banking at the Irving Trust Company, but he stayed less than a year. It was during that time that Mr. Fourcade met Mr. Denning, who was then working for the photographer Edgar de Evia. 'Just Like in the Movies'
        "We were introduced by Louis Estevez, a dress designer," said Mr. Denning. "Immediately we became great friends. And one day Vincent said to me, why don't we become decorators. It was just like in the movies. Within six months later everyone knew our name."
        The designers quickly gained public recognition for their designs for large, extravagant social events. One of their first jobs was decorating the Seventh Regiment Armory in New York for a cancer-care benefit. They covered the floors with wall-to-wall raccoons made from 100 old coats, covered the walls with Fortuny fabrics and borrowed French furniture, arranging sofas back-to-back, a configuration that has become one of their trademarks.
        Early in their career, the firm also designed the decor for Cynthia Phipps's coming out party in Roslyn, L.I. The decorators designed huge tents of red trellis covered with prints of wildflowers that were backlighted by spotlights. It was like being inside a flowered lamp shade.
        Mr. Fourcade was known for his attention to detail, great wit and extreme good looks. The red brick mansion he shared with Mr. Denning on East 73d Street in Manhattan and the house he built in Bridgehampton, L.I., were the subjects of articles in decorating magazines around the world.
        Mr. Fourcade is survived by his sister, Yvonne Panizza, and two brothers, Bertrand and Dominique. Another brother, the contemporary art dealer Xavier Fourcade, died five years ago.
      