
        Joseph P. Lyford, a California journalism teacher who drew national attention with close-up portraits of a sleepy rural community and a densely urban one, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Orinda, Calif. He was 74 years old.
        He suffered from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Lyford was a resident of Orinda. A former reporter, he was professor emeritus at the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California at Berkeley. In his seminars he taught students to look at urban affairs with the eyes of academic sociologists.
        He was a pioneer of the technique in his book "The Talk in Vandalia" (Harper, 1966), a study of a small town in Illinois. The book, which he wrote when he was in his 40's, found that its people faced many problems as they made the passage to modern America from the smugly provincial mediocrity of Sinclair Lewis's "Main Street." Absorbed the Atmosphere
        "The Airtight Cage" (Harper, 1966) grew from years of study of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where he lived for a time to interview residents and absorb the atmosphere. He found a breakdown of programs meant to lift the lives of the urban poor. The book, whose title came from a speech by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., won a Hillman Award in 1967 for "outstanding achievement in mass communications."
        Professor Lyford asserted that an urban atmosphere rife with violence, drug addiction and muggings caused many urban residents to "seal themselves in at night" as if in a "fortress of fear."
        Joseph Philip Lyford was born in Chicago and graduated with honors from Harvard. He served as an officer in the Navy in World War II and was decorated after the invasion of Okinawa.
        After working as a reporter and editor, he became press secretary to Gov. Chester Bowles of Connecticut. He ran unsuccessfully for Congress from Connecticut in 1952 and 1954 as a Democrat. Taught Urban Reporting
        From 1955 to 1966 he was an executive of the Fund for The Republic, the parent organization of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, for which he conducted his West Side survey in New York.
        In 1966, he joined the faculty in Berkeley and taught a seminar on urban-affairs reportage. He taught graduate and undergraduate courses until 1983, when illness overcame him.
        Professor Lyford is survived by his wife, the former Jean Thomas; a daughter, Amy Lyford of Walnut Creek, Calif.; a son, Joseph Jr., of Oakland, Calif.; two sisters, Harriet Rauh of Norwalk, Conn., and Ruth Sussler of New London, Conn.; and a brother, Roger, of Tampa, Fla.
        Correction:  December 5, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Joseph P. Lyford, a journalism teacher who studied city life, misidentified his home state in some editions. He lived and died in Orinda, Calif.
      