
        Albert King, a blues guitarist and singer who became a major figure in postwar American music, died on Monday in Memphis, where he lived.
        Mr. King, who was 69, died after a heart attack, the N. J. Ford & Sons Funeral Home in Memphis said.
        Mr. King was an intense performer, and his sound -- loaded with bent and crying notes -- was among the meanest produced by any bluesman. His solos might consist of only a few positions on the guitar, but he would contort them into wailing, cursing, anguish-filled choruses. He used his smooth voice, made passionate by a steady vibrato, to project doom and authority. He conjured up anger and loss in his songs.
        Mr. King was born in Indianola, Miss., and did farm work as a child. His first experiences with music were in the church, and he spent the 1940's doing manual labor and occasionally singing in a family gospel group.
        In the early 1950's, he moved north looking for work. In Gary, Ind., Mr. King played drums for Jimmy Reed, who was starting his own career. In 1953, at the suggestion of Muddy Waters, Mr. King made his first recordings, for the Parrot label. On the Blues Circuit
        In the mid-1950's he moved to St. Louis, where a flourishing blues scene nurtured Chuck Berry and Ike Turner. There, he put together one of his best bands and became a major figure on the blues circuit, playing exclusively for black audiences.
        His career took a radical turn in 1966, when he was signed by the Memphis-based Stax Records. Backed by excellent bands, including Booker T. and the MG's, he made the classic albums "Born Under a Bad Sign" and "Live Wire/Blues Power."
        His music changed as well. To stay current, he began recording funk and soul, and the contrast between his acidic guitar work and a funk rhythm section created one of the more distinct sounds in popular music. He became a regular on the rock-and-roll circuit, and white audiences received his music enthusiastically. Guitarists as disparate as Jimi Hendrix, J. J. Cale, Mark Knopfler, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Johnny Winter and Eric Clapton all owe their styles in part to Mr. King.
        Mr. King spent the rest of his career touring regularly, working with his own band, capturing a dark, Southern blues sound, and singing and playing with undiminished power. He was planning a European tour with two other blues masters, Bobby (Blue) Bland and B. B. King, who Mr. King said was a distant cousin.
        Mr. King is survived by his wife, Glendle, of Lovejoy, Ill.; two daughters, Evelyn Smith of Racine, Wis., and Gloria Randolph of Phoenix; a son, Donald Randolph, of Venice, Ill.; a sister, Elvie Wells of Chicago; 8 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      