
        William E. Watson, whose eccentric style as the host of a classical music program on WNCN radio drew a devoted audience in the 1960's, died Oct. 27 at a nursing home in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Moonachie, N.J.
        Relatives said that Mr. Watson, whose death came to the attention of The New York Times only last week, died of brain cancer.
        Mr. Watson's antics broke the traditionally staid mold for presenting classical music. A Disdain for Schedules
        Once he played Bach's "Well-Tempered Clavier," a piece about four hours long -- then promptly played it again. During a tiff with management, he lowered the volume on the commercials until they were inaudible.
        He often read poetry and literary works. Occasionally he read the news, adding a passage from "The Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire" introduced as a dispatch from Edward Gibbons, "our Roman Empire correspondent."
        His broadcast music was chosen on impulse, disdaining scheduled programming. Sometimes he told listeners that if they carefully examined their printed guide, they would discover that "you are tuned to the wrong station." He ridiculed modern music and even some classical works he disliked.
        "He was totally unique and eccentric, doing what a lot of us in radio had hoped it would be," said Steve Post, host of a classical music on WNYC. "I still get fan calls asking about him."
        Mr. Watson's rich, deep voice was heard on Paramount newsreels, ABC, WQXR, WPAT and WBAI. His late-night "Listening with Watson" on WNCN ran about 15 years. For a time he chose the classical music played on American Airlines planes.
        He was born in Greenville, Tex. In World War II, he served in the Navy. His three marriages ended in divorce.
        Surviving are five sons, William Jr., of Larchmont, Robert, of Farwell, Tex., Jean-Jacques, of Manhattan, Jean-Pierre, of Las Vegas, Nev., and Richard, of Moonachie, N.J.; two sisters, Nancy Mitchell of San Antonio and Marjorie Gaskins of Port Aransas, Tex., and one granddaughter.
      