
        Elizabeth Wood, a public housing pioneer who advocated racial and economic integration and the designing of workable neighborhoods, died yesterday at a nursing home near Atlanta. She was 93.
        She suffered from Alzheimer's disease, a broken hip and a stroke, said Gisela Titman, a niece.
        Miss Wood was the founding director of the Chicago Housing Authority, an Illinois state housing official and an officer of the National Association of Housing Officials. She was later a housing consultant in New York City and an administrator at the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
        Known as "Chicago's largest landlord," she headed the authority from 1937 to 1954, supervising the building and management of homes for thousands of families. Sought Real Neighborhoods
        The philosophy she developed over the years was to mix residents by race, economic class and family size. She proposed that social workers help troubled families who might drag down a project.
        Miss Wood favored small, dispersed projects rather than high-rise concentrations. A building's height should be limited to the distance that a mother in a window could be heard when calling to a child in a playground below, she said.
        She urged planners to include shops, churches, parks and even pubs to turn housing complexes into real neighborhoods instead of human warehouses. Courtyards and indoor gathering places should have an inviting "design for loitering," she said. She sponsored flower-growing contests to brighten the projects.
        Political pressure eventually forced Miss Wood out of her Chicago job. She said she fought with officials "and anybody else who stood in the way of getting homes built for the people."
        She then went to New York, where she did studies for the City Housing Authority and the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York. From 1965 to 1972 she worked at H.U.D. in the Johnson and Nixon Administrations to coordinate housing policy with other social and poverty programs.
        She won Guggenheim and Ford Foundation grants to study in Iran and analyze housing in India. She wrote numerous articles and books.
        The daughter of a missionary teacher, Miss Wood was born in Nara, Japan, and grew up in Bloomington, Ill. After receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in rhetoric at the University of Michigan, she taught English for four years at Vassar College.
        After moving to Chicago for doctoral studies, she instead became a social worker for United Charities. She then joined the Home Modernization Bureau, where a major contractor tutored her on the construction industry.
        When the New Deal Public Works Administration began building housing, she became a planner. She also served as executive secretary of the Illinois Housing Board when it drafted a law creating housing authorities.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      