
        Diana Adams, who was a leading ballerina with both the New York City Ballet and American Ballet Theater and the former dean of students at the School of American Ballet, died on Sunday at Mark Twain-St. Joseph's Hospital in San Andreas, Calif. She was 66 and lived in Arnold, Calif.
        Miss Adams was one of George Balanchine's favorite dancers and created roles in many of his major ballets of the 1950's. Among her most complex parts was the almost fiendishly demanding pas de deux she danced with Arthur Mitchell in the Balanchine-Stravinsky "Agon" in 1957. Mr. Mitchell later said of the duet and its unusual pivots and balances, "Diana's nervous intensity made the whole pas de deux work because it's not so much the difficulty of the steps or how flexible you are, it's the precariousness."
        She also appeared in films, performing with Danny Kaye in "Knock on Wood" (1954) and in "Invitation to the Dance" (1956), directed by Gene Kelly. A Versatile Talent
        Miss Adams was born in Staunton, Va. Her family later moved to New York City, and she studied there at Ballet Arts School, where one of her teachers was Agnes de Mille. Miss Adams made her stage debut in 1943 in the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "Oklahoma!," choreographed by Miss de Mille. In 1944, she joined Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was then known.
        Her talent and versatility were soon recognized. She performed the title role in David Lichine's comic "Helen of Troy," was the malevolent Queen of the Wilis in "Giselle," and was praised for her poignancy in Antony Tudor's bittersweet "Jardin aux Lilas" and for her ferocity in "Undertow," Tudor's ballet about slum life. In 1948, she created the role of the mother in Miss de Mille's "Fall River Legend."
        She joined the New York City Ballet in 1950 and performed with it until 1963. She had a remarkable interpretative range and was as compelling in Balanchine'sabstractions as she was in Tudor's dance-dramas. John Martin wrote in The New York Times in 1951 that under Balanchine's guidance, Miss Adams "has become theepitome of the lyric dancer."
        In addition to "Agon," she danced leading roles in the premieres of Tudor's "Lady of the Camellias" (1951), Frederick Ashton's "Picnic at Tintagel" (1952), and important Balanchine creations including "Caracole" (1952), "Opus 34" (1954), "Episodes" (1959) and "Liebeslieder Walzer" (1960). Transition Into Teaching
        She began teaching at the School of American Ballet while still a member of the company. After she stopped dancing, she served as dean of students at Balanchine's request until she retired in 1971. It was Miss Adams who chose the teen-age Suzanne Farrell at a School of American Ballet audition in 1960.
        Miss Adams married the dancer Hugh Laing in 1947; they were divorced in 1953. Her second marriage, to the stage manager and lighting designer Ronald Bates, also ended in divorce. In recent years, Miss Adams lived quietly in retirement, although she did teach for several companies, including the State Ballet of Missouri, which is directed by Todd Bolender, one of her former colleagues at the New York City Ballet.
        She is survived by a daughter, Georgina Bates of Antioch, Calif.
      