
        Dr. Luther H. Gulick, a former New York City official who advised President Franklin D. Roosevelt and several other leaders on the intricacies of public management, died yesterday at a nursing home near Greensboro, Vt. He was 100.
        Dr. Gulick, who until recently had lived with his son, Luther Jr., in Potsdam, N.Y., died after a recent struggle with the flu, said Dr. Lyle Fitch, a family friend and former colleague.
        He was among the first scholars to study the role of the executive in modern government and helped to devise and put into effect the concepts of budgeting and management training for public officials.  Headed Institute
        From 1921, when he was 29, until 1962, Dr. Gulick served as president of the Institute of Public Administration, the nation's oldest organization formed to promote scientific management in government. He went on to serve as its chairman until 1982.
        During his career, which he pursued into his 90's and which took him across the country and around the world, Dr. Gulick tackled an array of high-profile public management problems. He served on a three-member committee, assembled by President Roosevelt, that reorganized the executive operations of the Federal Government from 1936 to 1937. Served as City Administrator
        He also oversaw several major studies of New York City government, most notably the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey, a two-volume study that was initiated by Mayor William O'Dwyer.
        Dr. Gulick then served, from 1954 to 1956, under Mayor Robert F. Wagner as city administrator, a position that was advocated by the management survey but has since been phased out.
        Born in Osaka, Japan, the son of a missionary father, Luther Halsey Gulick graduated from Oberlin College in 1914. He earned his doctorate in political science from Columbia University six years later and taught at Columbia from 1921 to 1932.
        His first wife, Helen Swift, an Oberlin classmate, died in 1969. His second wife, Carol W. Moffett, died in 1989.
        In addition to his son, Luther Jr., he is survived by another son, Clarence of Washington; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      