
        Dr. Frank J. Rauscher Jr., a former director of the National Cancer Institute who discovered one of the most-studied of animal cancer viruses, died on Thursday in a Nyack, N.Y., hospital. He was 61 and lived in Weston, Conn.
        Dr. Rauscher suffered a heart attack, said one of his sons, Dr. Frank J. Rauscher 3d.
        A scientist for the National Cancer Institute for 17 years beginning in 1959, Dr. Rauscher was appointed director in 1972 by President Nixon. He served in that capacity, and as the first director of President Nixon's "war on cancer," during a time when the disease became the subject of intense medical research as it was taking a fearful toll on American lives.
        Under his leadership, financing for the institute grew to $815 million annually from $377 million in 1972.
        In 1976, Dr. Rauscher resigned to become senior vice president for research at the American Cancer Society, a private group that was calling for an expanded campaign against cancer. During his 14 years as senior vice president, the society distributed $700 million for biology, cancer and AIDS research and disease control. Insulation Research
        Dr. Rauscher then became executive director of the Thermal Insulation Manufacturers' Association in Stamford, Conn., where he directed research on thermal insulation materials to replace asbestos.
        Born in Hellertown, Pa., Dr. Rauscher received his Ph.D. in microbiology at Rutgers University in 1957 and was widely published on issues dealing with viruses and cancer.
        While with the National Cancer Institute, he discovered a virus that produces a form of leukemia in mice and that became a valuable tool in cancer research because of the speed with which it acts in rodents.
        In addition to his son Frank Rauscher 3d, who lives in Princeton, Dr. Rauscher is survived by his wife, Margaret; two other sons, Michael P. Rauscher, of Ridgefield, Conn., and David Rauscher of Weston; two daughters, Mary A. Rauscher and Megan Brooks, both of Westport, Conn.; his father, Frank J. Rauscher Sr.; a brother, Kenneth Rauscher, and a sister, Lois Grigorauk, both of Hellertown, Pa., and two grandchildren.
        A funeral Mass for Dr. Rauscher will be offered at 11 A.M. Monday at St. Francis of Assisi Roman Catholic Church in Weston.
      