
        Thomas B. Curtis, an influential Republican Congressman from Missouri who later headed three Federal commissions and quit one in a dispute with the Nixon Administration, died Sunday at a hospital in Allegan, Mich.
        He was 81 and had retired to nearby Pier Cove on Lake Michigan. He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Known for his independence, Mr. Curtis resigned as chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting in 1973. He accused White House officials under President Richard M. Nixon, who had appointed him, of "tampering" with the agency for political control. They denied the charge.
        Later, President Gerald R. Ford appointed him the founding chairman of the Federal Election Commission. In that role he criticized some Ford Administration actions, accusing it in one instance of hiring a prominent Republican, Rogers C.B. Morton, for political duties and paying him out of public rather than party funds. Mr. Curtis also pressed for restrictions on Congressional campaign financing. Didn't Want 'Toady' Role
        When the lawmakers retaliated by trying to curb the commission, Mr. Curtis said the changes would render the agency "a toady of Congress," and he asked not to be reappointed.
        Mr. Curtis served in Congress from 1951 to 1969. He came from a Democratic family but he said he chose the Republicans to fight bossism.
        In the House, he rose as a ranking member on the Ways and Means and Joint Economic Committees. He served on the United States delegation at the Kennedy Round of the tariff talks in 1967.
        Mr. Curtis was also a leader on Medicare issues and an advocate for the all-volunteer army. In 1967 he introduced the resolution barring Adam Clayton Powell of New York from taking his House seat because of accusations of fiscal abuses. Mr. Curtis also supported civil rights laws and encouraged blacks in his party.
        In 1968 he gave up his seat to run for Senate against Thomas F. Eagleton, who won by a narrow 27,000 votes. In a 1974 rematch, Mr. Eagleton won handily.
        Mr. Curtis wrote several books and headed a Twentieth Century Fund commission on campaign financing. He was active in Ronald Reagan's Presidential campaign and was chairman of the Missouri delegation to the Republican National Convention in Kansas City in 1976.
        Mr. Curtis was born in St. Louis. After graduating from Dartmouth College and Washington University law school, he joined his father's law firm. In World War II he was a lieutenant commander in the Navy, serving in the Philippines.
        His wife of nearly 49 years, the former Susan Chivvis, died two years ago.  His survivors are three sons, Allan of Town and Country, Mo., Charles, of State College, Pa., and Jonathan, of Charlotte, N.C.; a daughter, Elizabeth Allen of Kirkwood, Mo.; two brothers, James, of Pier Cove, and William, of Boulder, Colo., and 15 grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 19, 1993, Tuesday
        An obituary on Thursday about Thomas B. Curtis, a former Congressman from Missouri, omitted the name of a surviving son. He is Leland B. Curtis of Webster Groves, Mo.
      