
        Stanley H. Katz, a leading figure in the advertising industry in the United States, died on Tuesday as he traveled to his home in West Orange, N.J. He was 70.
        Mr. Katz died of heart failure, the Katz family said in a statement released through FCB/Leber Katz Partners, Mr. Katz's former firm.
        The Manhattan-based agency was formed by the 1986 merger of Leber Katz Partners and Foote, Cone & Belding Communications Inc. in Chicago.
        Mr. Katz retired as chairman and chief executive of FCB/Leber Katz Partners in 1991 but remained a consultant to it. Later that year, he founded Red Shark Technology Corporation, a partnership with International Business Machines to pioneer multimedia marketing software.  Started in 1954
        Mr. Katz and Lester Leber opened their advertising company, Leber and Katz, in 1954. Mr. Katz had been a senior executive of A. Hollander & Son Inc., a leading fur processor; Mr. Leber was the account supervisor for A. Hollander at the Grey Advertising firm. During the next three decades their agency grew to lead the industry, with worldwide billings of more than $550 million.
        Clients included well-known companies like the Marriott Corporation, A.T. & T., Corning, Avon, Johnson & Johnson, and Colgate-Palmolive. Among clients Mr. Katz personally handled were the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, RJR/Nabisco, Campbell Soup, Brown-Forman, Citibank and the Jamaica Tourist Board.
        Mr. Katz had attended New York University and served in the Army Air Corps in the European Theater during World War II.
        He was a trustee of the Edison Foundation, and a major donor to the Newark Museum, a director of the American Paralysis Association and of Orange Mountain Healthcare Inc. He was also a member of The Lotos Club, the New York Yacht Club, the New York Friars Club, the Royal Danish Yacht Club, and the Lucullus Circle.
        Mr. Katz is survived by his wife of 46 years, Vivienne; three sons, Robert, and William, both of West Orange, and Douglas, of Potomac, Md.; a sister, Dorothy, and six grandchildren.
      