
        Edward P. Morgan, a retired national radio and television reporter, anchor and commentator, died Wednesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 82.
        He died of complications of lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Morgan and Howard K. Smith were anchors for ABC's television coverage of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and for Presidential nominating conventions. Mr. Morgan also served on the press panel at the second campaign debate between Mr. Kennedy and Vice President Richard M. Nixon in 1960.
        For many years Mr. Morgan broadcast a nightly ABC radio report and commentary with a liberal viewpoint, sponsored by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A critic of commercial broadcasting as timid and bland, he left ABC in 1967 to become the chief correspondent for the Public Broadcast Laboratory of National Educational Television and did commentaries for public radio.
        Television reviewers praised him as erudite, and he won many top honors in his field, including the Peabody, DuPont, Polk and Hillman awards. He said his credo was "to be as fair as possible but as critical as possible."
        Among his most memorable performances was the composure he displayed when reporting the 1956 sinking of the passenger ship Andrea Doria after its collision with the vessel Stockholm, without showing any indication that his daughter, Linda, was on the list of dead passengers. That story had a happy ending, however. His daughter was discovered alive in the bow of the Stockholm, which had rammed into the young woman's cabin on the Andrea Doria and scooped her out with minor injuries.
        Born in Walla Walla, Wash., Mr. Morgan grew up in southwest Idaho and graduated from Whitman College in Walla Walla.
        An uncle who was an editor at Popular Mechanics magazine interested Mr. Morgan in writing, and he started his journalism career as an unpaid sports reporter at The Seattle Star. He next worked for United Press International on the West Coast, in Hawaii and in Mexico, where he beat the competition in reporting the assassination of Leon Trotsky.
        Mr. Morgan was a World War II correspondent for The Chicago Daily News and later a foreign correspondent for Collier's magazine. He joined CBS, where he worked with Edward R. Murrow, and briefly served as the network's the news director in 1954.
        His marriages to the former Jane Stolle and Katherine Burden Sohier ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his daughter, Linda Hardberger of San Antonio; a brother, Arthur, of Seattle; two stepdaughters, Sage Sohier of Brookline, Mass., and Elaine Sohier of California, and one granddaughter.
      