
        Prof. Albert Hourani, a reknowned scholar and author on Middle Eastern history, died Sunday in Oxford, England. He was 77 years old.
        Professor Hourani lectured at Oxford University from 1958 to 1980. One of the earliest members of St. Antony's College, Oxford, he was instrumental in developing the Middle East Center there and in building its collection of papers on the Middle East. He was named director of the center in 1958.
        A prolific author, he achieved his greatest success in the United States with "A History of the Arab Peoples," published by Belknap/Harvard University Press in 1991. Distilling a lifetime of studies on the subject, the book won great acclaim and, appearing in the wake of the Persian Gulf war against Iraq, promptly reached the best-seller lists and stayed on them for many weeks.
        Reviewing it for The New York Times, L. Carl Brown, director of the Near-Eastern Studies program at Princeton University, wrote: "This book by one of the most distinguished scholars of the Arab world and Middle East is a splendid achievement that can be read with profit by rank beginners and jaded specialists. It is, moreover, written with the grace and wisdom that those who know Mr. Hourani's works have come to expect."
        The reviewer called it a "good, old-fashioned narrative history, starting with the Arab world as it existed just before the advent of Islam early in the seventh century, and ending with the Arab world through the 1980's."
        Professor Hourani was born to Lebanese Christian immigrant parents in Manchester, England. He was educated in London and at Magdalen College, Oxford, where he was a fellow until 1958, and adopted Oxford as his intellectual home.
        One of the earliest members of St. Antony's College, he played a major role in building up its international reputation in his field. Large numbers of scholars now teaching Middle East history around the world benefited from his guidance.
        He also also was a visiting lecturer at campuses abroad, including Harvard University and the University of Chicago. An earlier book, "Arabic Thought in the Liberal Age" (1962) was a study of Arab nationalism as it evolved from 1798 to 1939.
      