
        The Rev. Victor R. Yanitelli, a Jesuit priest who was vicar of 35 Manhattan parishes for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of cardiac arrest brought on by chronic pulmonary disease, said his physician, Dr. John Guck.
        Father Yanitelli, who was fluent in Spanish, Italian and French, was also a former president and chancellor of Saint Peter's College in Jersey City.
        In 1982, he was appointed by Terence Cardinal Cooke to the post of Episcopal Vicar to oversee fiscal and other affairs for 35 parishes on the East Side of Manhattan. For two years before his appointment he had been pastor at St. Ignatius Loyola Church on the Upper East Side.  Served as College President
        Father Yanitelli was president of Saint Peter's College from 1965 to 1978 and chancellor from 1978 to 1980. During his tenure, he expanded the college's involvement with the Jersey City community, and he was a member of the Jersey City school board for several years in the late 1960's and early 1970's. The college's recreation center is named in Father Yanitelli's honor.
        He was a native of the Bronx and graduated from Fordham Preparatory School in 1936 and Georgetown University in 1940. He earned master's and doctoral degrees from Fordham.
        Father Yanitelli entered the Society of Jesus in 1933 and was ordained at Woodstock College in 1948. He taught at Fordham Prep and the University of Scranton, and was a professor and administrator at Fordham University for 13 years before going to Saint Peter's College in 1963 as director of student personnel services.
        Among his many honors, Father Yanitelli was named Jersey City's Man of the Year in 1966.
        Father Yanitelli was a life member of the Jewish Chataqua, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the Loyola Foundation and the Gregorian University Foundation. He also served as a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey from 1972 to 1981.
        Father Yanitelli is survived by a brother, Dr. George Yanitelli, of Falls Church, Va.
      