
        Reginald F. Lewis, a Wall Street lawyer and financier who was one of the nation's richest businessmen and a prominent corporate takeover dealer, died yesterday in Manhattan, one day after his company announced he was suffering from brain cancer. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan and Paris.
        Mr. Lewis died from a cerebral hemorrhage related to the cancer, his company said.
        Mr. Lewis, whose $1 billion acquisition in 1987 of the Beatrice Companies, a foods concern, led to the formation of his own company, TLC Beatrice International, had amassed personal assets of $400 million, according to estimates by Fortune magazine. By acquiring the Beatrice operations, TLC, which stands for The Lewis Company, became the largest company in the country run by a black person. But Mr. Lewis rejected notions that he should be viewed as an important figure because of his race.
        "I'm very proud of the accomplishments of African-Americans," Mr. Lewis said in an interview shortly after the acquisition of Beatrice. "And I'm delighted that people feel this accomplishment adds to that list. But to dwell on race -- to see that as something that becomes part of my persona -- is a mistake, and I do everything I can to discourage it."
        In the last few years, Mr. Lewis became deeply involved in philanthropy, donating millions of dollars each year to a number of institutions, from homeless shelters and neighborhood churches. Last year, his $3 million donation to the Harvard Law School, from which he graduated in 1968, made him the school's largest individual donor ever. Building on Success
        Mr. Lewis's business career was highlighted by two major deals. The first, in 1983, involved the purchase of the McCall Pattern Company. With $1 million he had saved from his dealings as a corporate lawyer, he led a $23 million buyout of the small dress-pattern maker. Four years later, after restoring the ailing company to financial health, Mr. Lewis sold McCall to the John Crowther Group of Britain for $63 million in cash, which brought him a personal profit of $50 million.
        What followed was the deal that cemented his place as a major Wall Street financier. The Beatrice Companies placed for sale its international operations, which included an amalgam of 64 companies operating in 31 countries, ranging from a sausage producer in Spain to an ice cream maker in Germany. Mr. Lewis, with the help of Drexel Burnham Lambert, put together the financing to buy the operations for $985 million in 1987.
        Mr. Lewis worked rapidly to sell less profitable operations to reduce debt, including former Beatrice businesses in Canada, Australia and many in Asia. Many expected that he would use his new-found leverage in the investment and financial community to pull off yet another giant acquisition. But Mr. Lewis settled comfortably into the role of manager, while keeping his eye open for potential deals.
        While he had considerable success operating his company profitably despite the recession in Europe, he had a few disappointments. The most notable was an attempt to take the company public in a stock offering in 1991. That effort was aborted as much by the skittishness the market at the time as by the perception of Mr. Lewis as a profiteer with little interest in running the company. Working Hard and Saving
        That was a reputation he worked to dispel by spending more time managing the operations of the largely European company, rather than leaving the details to subordinates.
        Mr. Lewis was born into a middle-class family in Baltimore in 1942. His father was a postal worker and his mother a teacher. He once said that he began selling newspapers when he was 9 years old, earning about $20 a week and saving $18.
        He graduated from Virginia State University before entering Harvard Law School. After graduating in 1968, he joined the New York law firm of Paul Weiss Rifkin Wharton & Garrison. In the early 1970's, he opened his own law firm, Lewis & Clarkson, which specialized in venture capital projects.
        A former high school and college quarterback, Mr. Lewis was athletically built and was an avid tennis player. His trademark was an imported cigar that always seemed perched in his mouth.
        In 1988, he moved with his wife and two daughters to Paris to manage Beatrice operations in Europe, buying an 18th century townhouse near the National Assembly building. After studying the language, he occasionally conducted business meetings in French. He was an avid patron of the arts, having acquired a sizable collection of paintings by Picasso, Matisse and others.
        Mr. Lewis was said by associates and friends to have been in good health until two months ago, when he was diagnosed as having brain cancer. Since then, Mr. Lewis worked feverishly to complete plans for passing on executive responsibility for his company to others and spending time with his wife and two daughters.
        "He knew he had this tumor for about two months," said the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a friend of Mr. Lewis's. "He spent the last two months preparing for treatment and getting his whole house in order, in terms of the company and his family." Transition Plan Developed
        TLC said on Monday that Mr. Lewis had structured a transition plan that would transfer the responsibility of running the company to his half-brother, Jean S. Fugett, a 41-year-old former professional football player who is now practicing law in Baltimore.
        Mr. Lewis considered his contributions to educational institutions to be his most important legacy. In the last few years, he gave vast sums to several schools, including Virginia State and Howard universities. In New York, he gave large contributions to Abyssinian Baptist Church and the scholarship foundation of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, of which he was a member.
        Mr. Lewis was a member of the boards of WNET in New York and the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund. He was also a member of the Business Roundtable and the Economic Advisory Committee of New York City. Mayor David N. Dinkins had nominated him to be a member of the city's Municipal Assistance Corporation.
        In addition to his half-brother Jean, of Baltimore, Mr. Lewis is survived by his wife, the former Loida Nicolas, two daughters, Leslie and Christina; his mother, Carolyn C. Fugett, and stepfather, Jean S. Fugett, both of Baltimore; two other half-brothers, Joseph M. Fugett of New York City and Anthony S. Fugett of Baltimore, and two half-sisters, Rosalyn Fugett Wiley and Sharon M. Fugett, both of Baltimore.
      