
        Huck Snyder, an artist and a designer of vivid stage settings for dancers and performance artists, died on Saturday at his parents' home in Lansdale, Pa. He was 39.
        He died of AIDS, said Elizabeth Dunn, a friend and colleague.
        Mr. Snyder, whose full name was Harry William Snyder 4th, created sets and stage furniture that were surrealistic yet extremely simple and almost childlike at times. Imaginative and free in their execution and unmistakably his work, his sets often seemed inseparable from the vision of the performers with whom he worked. The multi-level, boxlike set he designed for the performance artist John Kelly's 1991 work "Maybe It's Cold Outside" was crammed with the colorful and mysterious artifacts of five people's lives and was considered by some to be Mr. Snyder's best work.
        Other important collaborations with Mr. Kelly included "Pass the Blutwurst, Bitte," an evocation of the painter Egon Schiele and his work; "Find My Way Home," a retelling of the story of Orpheus and Eurydice; "Love of a Poet," based on Schumann's "Dichterliebe," and "Akin," which depicted the relationships of father-and-son troubadours from the middle ages to the present.  Directed His Own Piece
        Mr. Snyder also created sets for dances by Bill T. Jones and Bart Cook, and for theater pieces by Ishmael Houston-Jones. He conceived, directed and designed "Circus," a performance-art piece presented in 1987 at La Mama E.T.C.
        His paintings and installations have been exhibited at galleries throughout the United States and in solo and group shows in Europe and Japan. His theater work received New York Dance and Performance, or Bessie, Awards in 1985 and 1991 and a 1988 Obie Award for sustained excellence in scenic design. He was nominated for American Theater Wing Awards in 1987, 1988 and 1991.
        Mr. Snyder was born in Lansdale. He graduated from the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va., and attended the Goethe Institute in Berlin.
        He is survived by his parents, David H. and Helen R. Snyder, and two sisters, Susanne Bishop of Wyomissing, Pa., and Wendy Stiffler of Lansdale. A memorial service will be held on March 6 at 3 P.M. at St. Mark's Church in the Bowery, Second Avenue at 10th Street.
      