
        Dr. Sol Sherry, a medical researcher whose work led to the development of clot-dissolving drugs to treat heart attacks, died Thursday at Temple University Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 76 and lived in Voorhees, N.J.
        Dr. Sherry died of pancreatic cancer, said Robert L. Villier, director of public relations for the Temple University Health Sciences Center.
        Dr. Sherry was a distinguished professor emeritus at Temple. For more than three decades he studied the mechanisms of blood clotting and bleeding. His basic laboratory research and clinical studies were eventually applied to the early treatment of heart attacks and blood clots that lodge in the lungs.
        He played a major role in introducing the drugs streptokinase and urokinase, which are used throughout the world to treat heart attacks. The drugs are effective when injected within the first few hours after a heart attack or other life-threatening medical problem caused by a blood clot. By impeding the flow of blood, the clots lead to the destruction of tissue. The enzymes dissolve the clots, allowing blood to flow again. Early Research at N.Y.U.
        Dr. Sherry took some major early steps in his research at the New York University School of Medicine, where he worked with Dr. William S. Tillett, who is credited with discovering streptokinase.
        Dr. Sherry was also credited with the discovery of the action of various natural substances involved in blood clotting and bleeding.
        A native of Manhattan, Dr. Sherry earned a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1935 at the age of 18. He earned a medical degree from New York University in 1939 and trained as an intern, resident and fellow at the New York University School of Medicine and at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan.
        He was a flight surgeon with the United States Army from 1942 to 1946.
        Dr. Sherry was an assistant professor at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine from 1949 to 1951 and an assistant professor of medicine and director of the May Institute for Medical Research at the University of Cincinnati from 1951 to 1954. He was a professor of medicine at Washington University in St. Louis from 1956 to 1967 before joining the medical faculty at Temple in 1968 as professor of medicine and chairman of the school's department of medicine.  Founded Research Unit
        Dr. Sherry was dean of the School of Medicine at Temple from 1984 to 1986 and, in 1970, founded the university's Center for Thrombosis Research, the largest such center in the United States. He was the center's director until 1979, and it was named in his honor in 1991. The department of medicine also established the Sol Sherry Chair in Medicine on his retirement that year.
        Dr. Sherry was a member of many medical associations and the recipient of many awards and honors. They included the John Phillips Memorial Medal of the American College of Physicians, the Robert P. Grant Medal of the International Society on Thrombosis and Hemostasis, which he founded in 1977, and an honorary doctorate from Temple.
        Dr. Sherry is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Dr. Richard L., of Wilmington, Del.; a daughter, Judith Ann McNelis of Voorhees; a brother, Alfred, and two grandchildren.
      