
        George Crossan Seybolt, retired president and chairman of the William Underwood Company, the food concern, and president emeritus of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, died Thursday at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston. He was 78.
        He died of pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Seybolt, a native of Manhattan, lived in Boston. He graduated from Valley Forge Military Academy and began his business career with the American Can Company. In World War II he was a lieutenant in the United States Naval Intelligence.
        In 1947, American Can promoted him from sales manager in Baltimore to regional sales manager in Boston. Four years later he moved to Underwood, a company founded in 1821 and best known for its canned ham and sardines. Retired in 1980
        In 1958, Mr. Seybolt, at age 43, became the youngest man ever named president of Underwood. He made Underwood the first canner to set up a graduate fellowship in food-processing at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was chief executive and chairman of the company until his retirement in 1980.
        Underwood has since become part of Pet Inc., the St. Louis-based food conglomerate.
        Mr. Seybolt, a trustee of the Boston Museum, became its president in 1968 and president emeritus in 1974. But his interest in the arts ranged beyond Boston: President Jimmy Carter appointed him the first chairman of the National Museum Services Board, an advisory group, and he was a founder of the Museum Trustees Association in Washington.
        Mr. Seybolt was also a past president of the Boston Chamber of Commerce and former chairman of the Economic Development and Industrial Corporation for the City of Boston.
        He is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Hortense Kelley, two daughters, Reva Blanche of Woodstock, Conn., and Edwina Porter of Ojai, Calif.; two sons, George C. Seybolt Jr. of Manhattan and Calvert H. Seybolt of Boston and Mappsville, Va., and three granddaughters.
      