
        Joseph Anthony, an actor and director who at his peak staged four hit productions on Broadway simultaneously, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Hyannis, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Truro, Mass.
        In 1960 to 1961, Mr. Anthony opened four successful shows in 11 months.  They were Gore Vidal's "Best Man," "Under the Yum-Yum Tree," with Gig Young, Eugene Ionesco's "Rhinoceros" and Jean Kerr's "Mary, Mary."
        While those four plays continued, he also took an acting part playing opposite Shelley Winters in "The Country Girl" at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J. He was in his late 40's at the time. A Four-Year Run
        The longest running of Mr. Anthony's productions, "Mary, Mary," lasted about four years.
        Other well-known plays he directed included "The Lark," in 1955; "The Most Happy Fella," in 1956; "The Marriage-Go-Round," in 1958, and "110 in the Shade," in 1963.
        He directed both the stage and film versions of "The Rainmaker." The 1956 movie starred Katharine Hepburn and Burt Lancaster.
        His other movie directing credits were for "The Matchmaker" in 1958, "Career" in 1959, "All in a Night's Work" in 1961, "Captive City" in 1963, "Conquered City" in 1965 and "Tomorrow" in 1972.
        The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson described "The Most Happy Fella" as "a rare achievement for the theater." He praised Mr. Anthony's "immaculate direction" of Charles Boyer and Claudette Colbert in the "droll and buoyant" production of "Marriage-Go-Round."
        Mr. Anthony was an officer in Actors' Equity, a board member of the Screen Directors Guild and a past president of the Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers.
        He also served as the executive chairman of the Houston-A.N.T.A.  Theater and represented the United States at the International Theater Institute congress in Vienna in 1961.
        Mr. Anthony taught at the American Theater Wing, Vassar, Hunter, New York University and the State University College at Purchase, N.Y.
        He was born in Milwaukee. After two years at the University of Wisconsin, he went to California to study acting at the Pasadena Community Playhouse. Of Shelter and Avocados
        He said he was virtually penniless at the time, living in the countryside with a stolen stage drape for shelter and eating fruit and avocados from orchards.
        Before his directing career flourished, Mr. Anthony acted onstage and in several movies and television dramas, wrote some plays for television and the stage and was a dance partner to Agnes de Mille in the early 1940's.
        In World War II, he served in the U.S. Army in intelligence.
        Surviving are his wife of 50 years, Perry Wilson, an actress; a son, Peter Anthony of Barre, Vt.; a daughter, Ellen Anthony of Truro, and two grandchildren.
      