
        Rudolf Nureyev, one of the most charismatic ballet stars of the 20th century and an artist who was often called the greatest male dancer since Vaslav Nijinsky, died yesterday in a hospital near Paris. He was 54 and had homes in Paris, New York City and St. Bart's in the Caribbean.
        He died of "a cardiac complication, following a grievous illness," his physician, Michel Canesi, said. Dr. Canesi would not elaborate on the illness. "Following Mr. Nureyev's wishes, I can't say any more," he said. Many of Mr. Nureyev's friends said he had AIDS. He entered the Hopital Notre Dame du Perpetuel Secours in Levallois, a suburb of Paris, on Nov. 22.
        Mr. Nureyev's defection from the Soviet Union in 1961 made headlines around the world, and he remained in the public eye for nearly 30 years with a riveting stage presence that mesmerized audiences and attracted millions of new fans to ballet.
        During his career as a performer, Mr. Nureyev also choreographed, restaged many classics, served as the Paris Opera Ballet's artistic director and tried his hand as a ballet and orchestral conductor. Life and dance were one for Mr. Nureyev.
        When he defected from the Kirov Ballet while it was on tour in Paris, American and Western European audiences were already familiar with great male dancers. Some were more elegant and precise than Mr. Nureyev was at the height of his powers. But when he burst on the scene, with his long hair, hollow cheeks and fiery expression, he performed with an intensity that startled and excited dancegoers. A Chief Popularizer Of Classical Ballet
        At his peak, Mr. Nureyev combined a passionate, arrogant temperament with a perfectionist's standards. Upon his arrival in the West, he immediately became one of ballet's chief popularizers through his contemporary approach to the 19th-century classics and his legendary partnership with Dame Margot Fonteyn of the Royal Ballet. His personal obsession with dance was well known, inspiring him to master a bewildering variety of styles and to embark upon seemingly never-ending tours.
        Mr. Nureyev was above all a stickler for classical technique, and his mastery of it made him a model for an entire generation of dancers. If the standard of male dancing rose so visibly in the West after the 1960's, it was largely because of Mr. Nureyev's inspiration. He showed dancers how to jump an extra measure higher and not to be afraid of the grand manner. The public flocked to see him and he was often compared with rock stars.
        Richard Buckle, the dance critic for The Sunday Times of London, described Mr. Nureyev in a review in 1962 as "A pop dancer -- that's what we've got -- a pop dancer, at last.
        "What the telly did for art, what Billy Graham did for religion, Nureyev has done for ballet."
        As Oleg Kerensky, another British critic, observed in 1970: "Part of Nureyev's sensational success is due to his animal magnetism and sensuality. He appeals to the mothering instinct in middle-aged women, the mating instinct in young ones and the desire of many male homosexuals."  Born on a Train In Southeast Siberia
        Although Mr. Nureyev became an Austrian citizen in 1982, he was essentially a citizen of the entire Western dancing world. Yet he received his first dance lessons in a remote Soviet city.
        Rudolf Hametovich Nureyev was born on March 17, 1938, on a train traveling along the shores of Lake Baikal in southeastern Siberia. His father, of Bashkir Muslim descent, was in the Soviet Army, an itinerant political instructor for soldiers posted throughout the Soviet Union. His mother, Farida, was reportedly a Tatar from Kazan.
        The Nureyevs lived in Moscow for part of World War II. The family, which included three daughters, then moved to Ufa, a city on the eastern side of the Ural Mountains that is the capital of Bashkiria, a region within the Russian republic.
        Two sisters survive Mr. Nureyev: Rosa, who lives in the south of France, and sister, Rezida, who lives in Russia but who reportedly went to Paris recently to be near her brother.
        It was at the Ufa Opera that Mr. Nureyev first saw ballet performances. Enraptured, he began to work with folk-dance groups at his school and to take ballet lessons with a local teacher, eventually becoming an apprentice member of the corps de ballet at the Ufa Opera House.
        Although his father tried to discourage his interest in dance, he appeared with other members of the Ufa Ballet in Moscow in 1955. After auditions, he was accepted by the schools of both the Bolshoi Ballet in Moscow and the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad. He chose the Kirov even though one of the teachers who auditioned him there said, "Young man, you'll become either a brilliant dancer or a total failure -- and most likely you'll be a failure."
        Challenged, Mr. Nureyev had the luck to be taken under the wing of one of the Kirov's best teachers, Aleksandr Pushkin. At his graduation in 1958, Mr. Nureyev joined the Kirov Ballet. Skipping the corps level, he was given solo roles from the outset. He regularly partnered Natalya Dudinskaya, the company's senior ballerina and the wife of its director, Konstantin Sergeyev.  Curiosity About Foreign Dancers
        Mr. Nureyev also gained a reputation as an unpredictable individualist. He took little interest in politics but aroused the suspicion of Communist officials by his curiosity about the foreign attractions that visited Leningrad. He was absent when American Ballet Theater performed there but he asked a friend to film some performances. Erik Bruhn, the great Danish dancer in that troupe, overwhelmed him with his elegance and aristocratic reserve, qualities different from Mr. Nureyev's own flamboyance. Asked later if he found Mr. Bruhn a cool dancer, he replied, "Cool, yes -- so cool that it burns." Soon after Mr. Nureyev defected, he and Mr. Bruhn became close friends.
        That defection occurred on June 17, 1961. The Kirov had just finished its season in Paris and was going on to London. But Mr. Nureyev was told that he was being sent to Moscow to dance at a gala. He suspected that this was a way of punishing him for his unruliness, and that once in the Soviet Union, he would no longer be allowed out. When he arrived at Le Bourget airport with the rest of the company, Mr. Nureyev ran toward two French police inspectors and declared that he wished to remain in the West. He did not return to the Soviet Union until 1987, when he received a special visa to see his mother, who was ill and near death.
        Mr. Nureyev's first engagement with a Western troupe was in the De Cuevas Ballet's production of "The Sleeping Beauty." He and Mr. Bruhn then formed a small company that gave "divertissement" programs of short ballets and excerpts from longer works. Americans first saw him on television on Jan. 19, 1962, when Mr. Bruhn gave his scheduled performance with Maria Tallchief on the "Bell Telephone Hour" to Mr. Nureyev. He made his New York stage debut at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on March 10, 1962, dancing the "Don Quixote" pas de deux with Sonia Arova during a performance by the Chicago Opera Ballet. That year, he also appeared briefly with American Ballet Theater in Chicago.
        Mr. Nureyev made his British debut on Nov. 2, 1961, when Fonteyn invited him to participate in a charity gala, at which he partnered the American ballerina Rosella Hightower in the "Black Swan" pas de deux (the program mistakenly listed it as "Don Quixote"). He also danced a solo to Scriabin's "Poeme Tragique" that Sir Frederick Ashton had choreographed for him. Mr. Nureyev returned to London on Feb. 21, 1962, as a guest artist with the Royal Ballet. This time, he was cast in "Giselle" and his ballerina was Fonteyn. Ballet history was made and Mr. Nureyev began his long association with the Royal Ballet as a "permanent guest artist" (only British Commonwealth subjects could be full company members at the time). 'Abstract Love' With Fonteyn
        It was widely assumed that Fonteyn was approaching the end of her performing career, but it was just as obvious that her new partner had revitalized her. Mr. Nureyev said of Fonteyn in 1965: "I don't care if Margot is a Dame of the British Empire or older than myself. For me she represents eternal youth; there is an absolute musical quality in her beautiful body and phrasing. Because we are sincere and gifted, an intense abstract love is born between us every time we dance together."
        Not content with the classics alone at the Royal Ballet, Mr. Nureyev danced in such contemporary ballets as Kenneth MacMillan's "Romeo and Juliet," Roland Petit's "Pelleas et Melisande," Jerome Robbins's "Dances at a Gathering" and George Balanchine's "Apollo."
        He also restaged many 19th-century classics, beginning with the "Kingdom of the Shades" scene from "La Bayadere" for the Royal Ballet in 1963. Many of these versions emphasized the male dancer as well as the ballerina. Some were unconventional: his "Nutcracker" for the Royal Ballet in 1968 became a Freudian fantasy in which Clara, the child-heroine, is attacked by malevolent bats who turn out to be members of her own family. In his 1986 production of "Swan Lake" for the Paris Opera Ballet, Mr. Nureyev set the action in a room, as a projection of the hero's mind. Mr. Nureyev's more extreme emendations of the classics received mixed notices, as did some of his original ballets, among them "Tancredi" and "Manfred."
        Unwilling to confine himself to a single troupe, Mr. Nureyev became a globe-trotting guest artist. "I really have to dance more often," he said in 1970, "and so I travel around. If I don't, I will crumble." Unsuccessful Effort To Exorcise Princes
        Early in his career in the West, he also expressed a desire to work with George Balanchine, a co-founder of the New York City Ballet. But as Mr. Nureyev recalled in 1979, Balanchine told him: "My ballets are too dry for you. Go and dance your princes. When you're tired of them, come back." Mr. Nureyev commented: "I tried to exorcise those princes out of my system. But they wouldn't go away."
        Nevertheless, in 1979 Balanchine cast him in a new version of "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme" for the New York City Opera. The other dancers were from the City Ballet but it was not a production of that company, and it was only after Balanchine's death in 1983 that Mr. Nureyev appeared with City Ballet, in 1988, in Balanchine's "Orpheus."
        Even as he was creating a sensation in the classical repertory, Mr. Nureyev was drawn to modern dance. He tried out a blend of modern and classical technique in 1970 in the Royal Ballet's production of "The Ropes of Time," by Rudi Van Dantzig, then appeared in Glen Tetley's' "Field Figures," "Laborintus" and "Pierrot Lunaire." Mr. Nureyev first danced "The Moor's Pavane" by Jose Limon with the National Ballet of Canada in 1972. That year he began to dance with modern-dance groups as a guest artist, appearing with the Paul Taylor Dance Company, in which his repertory ranged from the lyrical "Aureole" to the comic "Book of Beasts" and then with the Murray Louis Dance Company, in which he performed "Moments" and "Vivace," both created for him by Mr. Louis.
        Mr. Nureyev repeatedly appeared with the Martha Graham Dance Company. In 1975 he and Fonteyn starred in "Lucifer," a premiere by Graham, and in subsequent seasons he was seen in several Graham works, including, in 1987, "Appalachian Spring," when the cast included another Kirov defector and guest artist from the ballet world, Mikhail Baryshnikov.
        In 1975 Mr. Nureyev set out on a tour with a small group called Nureyev and Friends, offering classical excerpts and contemporary works. Many similar worldwide tours followed. Kept Paris Ballet At High Level
        Mr. Nureyev directed the Paris Opera Ballet from 1983 to 1989. Although his opponents charged that he was too often away from Paris performing, he kept the company at a high level of excellence. His own choreography for the company included an adaptation of Henry James's "Washington Square" and a "Cinderella" set in Hollywood.
        Mr. Nureyev also made forays into movies, theater and music. His film debut came in 1977 when he played the title role in Ken Russell's "Valentino," and he appeared with Nastassja Kinski in 1983 in the poorly received "Exposed," a film in which he played a violinist seeking vengeance against a terrorist. In 1983 he toured America as the King of Siam in a revival of the musical "The King and I." Shortly afterward, he studied conducting with a tutor and began conducting in Eastern Europe in 1991 and, in 1992, in Russia. Although he was already quite ill, he conducted a single performance of "Romeo and Juliet" for Ballet Theater in New York on May 6, 1992, at the Metropolitan Opera House.
        On Oct. 8, in his last appearance on stage, to take a bow at the conclusion of the Paris premiere of his new production of "La Bayadere," he looked gaunt and had to be helped to walk. He blinked back tears as the audience gave him a 10-minute standing ovation, after which he was decorated as a Commander of Arts and Letters by France's Minister of Culture and Education, Jack Lang.
        A memorial service for Mr. Nureyev is to be held at the Paris Opera on Tuesday.
        Offstage, Mr. Nureyev was very much a night person who relished parties and discos, and was seen often in the company of prominent socialites.  Nevertheless, he managed to keep details of his private life private. As he said in an interview in 1970: "Of course I have a personal life. Something goes on, I'm sure. But I don't think the public should know about that. Do you?"
        "Nureyev: An Autobiography" was published by London, Hodder & Stoughton in 1962.
        The superstar's temperamental outbursts were a famous aspect of his career and personality. He walked offstage while partnering Merle Park of the Royal Ballet during a performance at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1970. In 1973, Natalia Makarova publicly accused him of deliberately dropping her onstage in Paris. Incidents in which Mr. Nureyev slapped his partners were widely reported, and in 1991, a male dancer sued him for injuring him in rehearsal in Italy.
        The same year, The Observer in London called him bitter and arrogant. Increasingly, he seemed to be under the strain of refusing to acknowledge that his dancing days were over. And the anti-Semitic remarks he had long made in private (he always referred to Mr. Baryshnikov, who is not Jewish, as Moishe) surfaced in print. Without being named, a Soviet critic in Leningrad was called a "Yiddish bitch" by him in Esquire magazine after her mixed review of his performance at the Kirov in Leningrad in 1989 (the first since his defection). Made Difficulties Obvious to Audience
        Mr. Nureyev developed, by his own account, a calculated style as a performer. He made dancing "look difficult and conquerable," as Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times in 1975, when she commented on how "Mr. Nureyev would make heroic, elaborate preparations for certain steps; the tension increased and so did the thrill for the audience as the difficulty was surmounted."
        But after the late 1970's, it was increasingly charged that Mr. Nureyev failed to surmount difficulties and that he was dancing past his prime. The phenomenon who once elicited frenzied ovations now provoked discontent. In April 1991, some spectators at a performance by Nureyev and Friends in Sunderland, England, demanded their money back. But Mr. Nureyev refused to announce his retirement. As he said in 1990, "The main thing is dancing, and before it withers away from my body, I will keep dancing till the last moment, the last drop."
      