
        Kobo Abe, a literary master whose haunting visions of people senselessly trapped by modern urban life made him one of Japan's most highly acclaimed postwar authors, died today. He was 68.
        After a brief illness, Mr. Abe died of heart failure in a hospital in Tokyo, hospital officials said.
        Mr. Abe (pronounced AH-bay) is best known in both Japan and the United States for his 1962 novel, "The Woman in the Dunes," a characteristically dark, surrealistic tale of a man who becomes trapped in a pit with a strange woman and struggles to make do while local villagers peer in. The movie version won a special prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 1964.
        His was a threatening world of people who frequently lose their way and lose their identities, fighting against always insurmountable odds to unravel the senseless events that have left them doomed.
        Although he resisted the description, he was often called a Japanese Kafka. In one story a man finds himself transformed into a plant. In another a man decides to move into a box to discover a kind of freedom he cannot find in ordinary life.
        His themes shared some of the desolation of Western writers whose sensibilities were also shaped by the brutal rise of Fascism and then the devastation of World War II. His landscapes were, however, distinctively Japanese. At Home and Abroad
        At least eight of Mr. Abe's novels, collections of stories and plays were translated into English, making him one of the best-known Japanese authors in the United States, along with Yukio Mishima, who was a close friend of Mr. Abe before his suicide.
        Mr. Abe, an owlish figure usually pictured behind large, black-framed glasses and puffing on a cigarette, was immensely popular in Japan, especially among the generation that came of age in the 1960's. His publisher, Shinchosa, said that about nine million copies of Mr. Abe's books had been sold.
        He won many of Japan's most prestigious literary awards and was occasionally mentioned as a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature. He founded a theater company in the 1970's and put on productions in Washington and New York.
        Mr. Abe's death was announced on the front pages of every major newspaper this afternoon, and television networks immediately broadcast programs reviewing his accomplishments and themes. Legacy From China
        Mr. Abe was born in Tokyo on March 7, 1924, but he grew up in northern China, which was being occupied by the Japanese military throughout the 1930's. (Kobo is the Chinese reading of his given name, Kimifusa.) His father was a doctor, and he eventually studied medicine at Tokyo University but was an indifferent student and never practiced.
        Mr. Abe published his first short stories in the late 1940's, quickly establishing himself as a distinctly skeptical voice in a society shattered by its defeat in the war and torn from its roots. His works had none of the tragic intensity of Mishima's or the delicate explorations of feelings of the books of Yasunari Kawabata, the only Japanese to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
        At the heart of his art, ultimately, was what some critics described as a pervasive loneliness, as his characters searched for their real and spiritual homes in an inhospitable world.
        As Mr. Abe wrote in "Red Cocoon," one of his earliest short stories: "The day is dying, time for men to hurry home: but I have no place to go. I slowly walk along the narrow crack dividing house from house and wonder -- wonder -- wonder how there can be so many and none, not one, for me."
        Mr. Abe was named a foreign member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters last year. He was made an honorary doctor of humane letters by Columbia University in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Machi, an artist who collaborated on many of his theater productions, and a daughter, Neri.
      