
        F. Clifton White, who conceived and masterminded the conservative dominance of the 1964 Republican National Convention and its nomination of Barry Goldwater for President, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 74.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. White, a career political consultant, had roles in many Presidential campaigns in the United States and in several foreign countries. He was a past president of the International Association of Political Consultants and of its American branch.
        "The politician's politician" was the description he earned from Theodore H. White (no relation), the author of "The Making of the President" series. Helped Venezuela's President
        Among F. Clifton White's clients was President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela, when he was first elected in 1973. Mr. White also worked on the 1972 Senate campaign of Jesse Helms of m North Carolina. And he headed the 1970 Senate campaign of James L. Buckley, who nominated by the small Conservative Party in New York State.
        Mr. White, with his bow ties and tweed jackets, was a familiar figure at Republican national conventions. He attended every one from 1948 through 1992 and, in various capacities, worked for Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Ronald Reagan.
        But it was the elaborate strategy culminating in Mr. Goldwater's nomination in 1964 that cemented his reputation for organizational genius.
        The Goldwater movement germinated in 1961, when Mr. White gathered a cadre of conservatives for a private meeting at a Chicago motel. They decided to seek ideological control of the party and chose Senator Goldwater of Arizona as their nominee, although he initially spurned the idea.
        Mr. White closeted himself and a secretary in a nondescript Manhattan office and quietly recruited volunteers, formed the strategy and organized a national network.  Draft-Goldwater Campaign
        In 1963 he announced a draft-Goldwater campaign and staged a Fourth of July rally in Washington that drew nearly 7,000 supporters, including 43 busloads from New York. Mr. Goldwater warmed to the idea of running for President and declared his candidacy.
        By the time the convention opened in San Francisco in July 1964, the nomination was sewed up. Mr. White ran the show from a 55-foot-long green and white trailer outside the Cow Palace, with telephone and walkie-talkie connections to roving operatives on the convention floor and to every delegation's quarters at 30 hotels throughout the city.
        As expected, Mr. Goldwater won a resounding first-ballot victory. Theodore H. White wrote, "This was a new thing in American conventions -- not a meeting, not a clash, but a coup d'etat."
        Although F. Clifton White aspired to become the Republican national chairman, he was relegated by Mr. Goldwater's team of aides to a minor campaign role. In the general election Mr. Goldwater and his running mate, Representative William E. Miller of New York, lost by a landslide to the Democratic ticket, President Lyndon B. Johnson and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota. Consultant to Corporations
        Frederick Clifton White was born in Leonardsville, N.Y., and grew up in nearby Earlville, a village 28 miles southwest of Utica. He graduated from Colgate in 1940 and was a navigator in the Army Air Forces in World War II. He flew 25 missions, was promoted to captain and won the Distinguished Flying Cross.
        Although he later became a prominent conservative, he started in the Republican Party's moderate-to-liberal wing. Teaching political science at Cornell University and Ithaca College from 1945 to 1951, he supported rent control and veterans' housing. In his only run for public office, he lost a primary race for Congress in 1946.
        Mr. White then began to focus on party organization, and in the 1950's he became the Republican chairman of Ithaca and Tompkins County, a member of the state executive committee, statewide president of the Young Republican Clubs and a national manager of the clubs.
        He worked for three years in the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles, serving briefly as its acting commissioner.
        For most of his career as a consultant, Mr. White advised corporations, giving training to executives on politics, governmental affairs and organizational tactics. He was also the co-author of four books, and in 1982 President Reagan appointed him chairman of Radio Marti, the broadcaster of anti-Castro programs to Cuba.
        Surviving are his wife of 52 years, the former Gladys Bunnell; a daughter, A. Carole Green of Fredericksburg, Va.; a son, F. Clifton White Jr. of Fairfax, Va., and seven grandchildren.
      