
        Dr. William H. Oldendorf, a medical researcher whose work helped lead to the development of the CAT scan and magnetic resonance imaging technology, died in a Los Angeles hospital on Dec. 14. He was 67 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Dr. Oldendorf, who was a professor of neurology and psychiatry at the Medical School of the University of California at Los Angeles and a senior medical investigator for the West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical Center, died of complications of heart disease, said his wife, Stella.
        When the British researchers Godfrey N. Hounsfield and Allan M. Cormack received the Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology in 1979 for work leading to the development of computerized axial tomography, the CAT scanner that provides three-dimensional images of living organisms, Dr. Oldendorf maintained that he should have also been recognized.
        "Anybody who goes into science expecting to win the Nobel Prize is about as realistic as a person going to Las Vegas to get rich," he was quoted as saying in January 1980 by the journal Science. "But my feeling is that I should be preparing to go to Stockholm." Independent Work
        Dr. Oldendorf, who wrote the first paper on cross-sectional scanning of the brain with X-rays and received the first patent for such a scanner, worked independently of the British researchers. His device scanned a plane of the brain by moving a high-energy photon source and a mechanically coupled detector around the head. He had difficulty attracting interest in his device, which he developed in the early 1960's, until the British-made scanner gained attention in 1972.
        In 1975, Dr. Oldendorf and Mr. Hounsfield shared an Albert and Mary Lasker Award, one of the most prestigious awards in American medicine, for work on imaging techniques.
        Although best known for his work on the CAT scan, Dr. Oldendorf also did research work on the flow of cerebrospinal fluid, the structure and function of the blood-brain barrier and the application of nuclear and radiological techniques to neurology.
        He was born in Schenectady, N.Y., on March 27, 1925, and attended Union College there. He earned his medical degree from Albany Medical College in 1947. He became associated with what is now the West Los Angeles V.A. Medical Center in 1955 and joined the U.C.L.A. faculty in 1956.
        He is the author of more than 250 scientific publications, including several books. He also received many honorary degrees and awards, including the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service, and in 1991 he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Oldendorf is survived by three sons: Eric Oldendorf, of Los Angeles, Mark Oldendorf, of Albany, and William Oldendorf Jr., of Sherman Oaks, Calif.; two sisters, Florence Karlen, of Schenectady, and Dorothy Brown, of Duanesburg, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      