
        Bruce Kelly, a landscape architect who created the gently welcoming realm of Strawberry Fields in Central Park, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44.
        He died of AIDS, his family said.
        Although Mr. Kelly practiced privately, as a principal in the firm of Bruce Kelly/David Varnell in Manhattan, he was best known for public projects. Of these, the re-landscaping of Central Park loomed largest.
        Elizabeth Barlow Rogers, the Central Park administrator, credited Mr. Kelly with being able "to make the landscape speak again." He was a student of the work of Frederick Law Olmsted, one of the creators of Central Park, and -- like Olmsted -- an heir to the tradition of romantic, 18th-century estate gardens.
        Mr. Kelly gained the most notice for Strawberry Fields, near West 72d Street. This three-and-a-half-acre "International Garden of Peace" was a gift to the city from Yoko Ono in memory of John Lennon, her husband. The lush enclave, which includes plant species representing 161 nations, was dedicated in October 1985. Particular Park Places
        Here and there through Central Park, Mr. Kelly was also responsible for the design or renovation of the Shakespeare Garden, at the foot of the Belvedere Fountain; the James Michael Levin and Pat Hoffman Friedman playgrounds, and the Point: that part of the Ramble that juts into the Lake, across from Bethesda Terrace.
        He also drew plans for expanding Turtle Pond (formerly Belvedere Lake) and rebuilding the Great Lawn, to the north.
        His last project in the park, with Mr. Varnell, was the re-landscaping of the Dene, an area immediately west of Fifth Avenue, roughly between East 66th and 69th Streets.
        Mr. Kelly left a broader, though less tangible, mark on Central Park as a member of the team responsible for "Rebuilding Central Park: A Management and Restoration Plan," issued in 1985. Also on the team were Ms. Rogers, John Berendt, Marianne Cramer, Judith Heintz and Philip N. Winslow.
        "Public parks are often repositories of a people's cultural heritage," they wrote. "This endowment must be preserved, though not slavishly. The historic intentions of a park can be as important as its physical features, sometimes more so." Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial
        Mr. Kelly and Mr. Varnell also designed the two-acre Eleanor Roosevelt memorial proposed for Riverside Park, at 72d Street. The memorial as designed would include an eight-foot bronze statue, but most of the $785,000 that is to be raised for the project would go into new landscaping.
        Among the firm's projects outside New York City were the Boulevard East Promenade along the Palisades in Weehawken, N.J., and master plans for rebuilding Forest Park in St. Louis, Piedmont Park in Atlanta and Central Park in New Britain, Conn.
        Private projects included the estates of Angier Biddle Duke in Southampton, L.I.; of H. John Heinz 3d in Pittsburgh, and of Henry R. Kravis in Sharon, Conn. Mr. Kelly also restored the 19th-century garden of the Palazzo Albrizzi in Venice.
        In addition to working on "Rebuilding Central Park," Mr. Kelly was a co-author, with Gail Guillet and Mary Ellen Hern, of "Art of the Olmsted Landscape" (1982). The Bird Contingent
        Mr. Kelly's career was not without controversy. In 1982, as part of the Ramble project, he supervised the felling of numerous trees in the densely wooded area, a favored spot of birds and bird watchers.
        Despite assurances by Parks Department officials that the goal was to enhance, rather than diminish, the Ramble's role as a sanctuary, bird watchers denounced the cuttings as a "mass destruction of mature and irreplaceable trees."
        Mr. Kelly and Mr. Varnell were originally part of a design team for the South Garden at Battery Park City, with the artist Jennifer Bartlett. But they parted from the project in 1989, objecting strenuously to Ms. Bartlett's scheme, which was scrapped two years later.
        Mr. Kelly was a native of Wrens, Ga., near Augusta. He received a bachelor's degree in landscape architecture from the University of Georgia in 1971 and a master's degree in historic preservation from Columbia University in 1973.
        He is survived by his mother, Virginia Kelly of Titus, Ala., and two sisters, Phyllis Kennedy of Decatur, Ga., and Paula Meiners of Mandeville, La.
      