
        Dr. Walter Redisch, a research professor in physiology known internationally for his original work in vascular studies, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94.
        His family said he died after a long illness.
        Dr. Redisch was long associated with the New York University School of Medicine. After his retirement there in 1969, he was associated until last year with New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y. The college chose him in 1988 for a newly created award for Distinguished Contributions to Science, one of many such honors that came to him during his long career.
        The 1988 citation noted that Dr. Redisch's work had provided better understanding of the causes and spread of a variety of diseases. "More than 50 years ago," it read, "he was among the first to formulate and develop the concept of the involvement of microcirculation in vascular disease." His ideas and findings, it said, live on in "current approaches to treatment and modern cardiovascular pathophysiology." New Treatment Strategies
        His experimental studies provided basic physiological and pharmacological information and new strategies to treat gangrene, trench foot and vascular insufficiency. His research on vascular disease covered such areas as response to temperature, human capillaroscopy and the effects of tobacco and other agents.
        Over the years, Dr. Redisch also served as visiting physician at Metropolitan and Bellevue Hospitals, and as a consultant to the New York University Institute of Rehabilitation and the Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan.
        Dr. Redisch, who was born in Prague, received his medical degree in 1922 from the German University Medical School in Prague and became associated with institutions in Tubingen, Vienna and Prague before immigrating to the United States. His ties to N.Y.U. began in 1938, when he was appointed an instructor of medicine.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Marianne Benedict; two daughters, Monica Berent of Manhattan and Margery Dorne of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      