
        John R. Brown, a Federal judge who played a major role in desegregation cases that transformed the South, died Friday at a hospital in Houston. He was 83 and lived in Houston.
        Judge Brown died of cancer, his family said.
        A civil-rights Republican in the Lincoln tradition, Judge Brown once said that "the Constitution would not tolerate any discrimination based on color or race."
        Among the nearly 2,000 opinions he wrote was the 1962 order that James Meredith be enrolled into the all-white University of Mississippi over the opposition of Gov. Ross Barnett. Dissolved Voting Ban
        As part of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, Judge Brown also voted to overturn the Texas poll tax and issued decisions to stop Georgia and Alabama officials from barring blacks from voting and, citing the exclusion of blacks from the jury, to overturn the conviction of two Louisiana blacks who had been on death row for 13 years.
        He and three fellow judges built a judicial legacy that became the subject of "Unlikely Heroes" (Simon & Schuster, 1981) by Jack Bass. The other judges were John Minor Wisdom and Elbert P. Tuttle, both Republicans, and Richard T. Rives, a Democrat.
        Mr. Brown was 45 when President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed him to the Court of Appeals in 1955, a year after the Supreme Court officially ended school segregation.
        That ruling inaugurated an era of contentious litigation, widespread protests and even violence across the Fifth Circuit, which then encompassed Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama, Florida and the Panama Canal Zone. Battleground Over Rights
        Judge Brown's court became a battleground as the busiest circuit in the nation and proved to be a firm enforcer of equal rights. He presided over the court from 1967 to 1979, when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 for chief judges. He remained a judge at his death.
        Born in Funk, Neb., Judge Brown grew up in nearby Holdredge. He was a graduate of the University of Nebraska and the University of Michigan law school. In World War II he served in the Army as a major.
        In 1932 he joined the law firm of Royston & Rayzor in Houston and eventually became its senior partner. He specialized in maritime law. Active in politics, he became the Republican chairman of Harris County, which includes Houston.
        He was a deacon, elder and Sunday school superintendent of the First Presbyterian Church in Houston.
        After his first wife, the former Mary L. Murray, died in 1977, he married the former Vera S. Riley.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include a son, John R. Brown Jr. of Houston; a stepdaughter, Vera Jan Riley of Houston; two stepsons, John L. Riley 3d of Houston and James P. Riley of Galveston; a sister, Margaret Pittman of Portland, Ore.; a brother, James N. Brown of Hilton Head, S.C.; and three granddaughters.
      