
        Two celebrated geniuses of the performing arts died yesterday: Rudolf Nureyev, the ballet dancer who leaped from Soviet dictatorship to the heights of artistic freedom in the West, and Dizzy Gillespie, the jazz trumpet virtuoso who brought a new wit and stylistic range to America's native art form.
        Mr. Nureyev, who died at the age of 54 in a suburban Paris hospital, made his dash to freedom with an elan that became his hallmark onstage as well. After his defection from the Kirov Ballet in 1961, he quickly became one of the most creative and popular ballet artists of this century, perhaps the greatest male dancer since Vaslav Nijinsky.
        His stunning career in the West included a legendary partnership with Dame Margot Fonteyn of the Royal Ballet. Though Mr. Nureyev was widely reported to be suffering from AIDS, his physician said he died of "a cardiac complication following a grievous illness."
        Mr. Gillespie, beloved globally for his intensity, artistry and bemusement with life, died at 75 with, his family said, his own recorded version of "Dizzy's Dime" playing softly by his bed in Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He died of pancreatic cancer.
        Dizzy Gillespie exuded virtuosity, even in the trademark shape of his horn with its bell bent heavenward, the result of someone's accidentally stepping on it at a party. After that, he had his trumpets made that way.
        A pioneer of various jazz innovations, Mr. Gillespie was most identified with the be-bop revolution that he fathered with the saxophonist Charlie Parker. His career spanned more than half a century and was marked by his personal humor as much as his universal music.
        Obituaries, pages D19-20.
        Correction:  January 8, 1993, Friday
        A front-page summary yesterday about the obituaries of Rudolf Nureyev and Dizzy Gillespie referred incorrectly to the recording that was playing in Mr. Gillespie's room when he died on Wednesday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. It was "Dizzy's Diamonds: The Best of the Verve Years," a collection on the Verve label.
      