
        Anna Goldfeder, a leader in cancer and radiobiology science who conducted research for 66 years, died on Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 95.
        Dr. Goldfeder, whose career spanned generations of cancer researchers, made important contributions in her field until her retirement in 1988, when she was 91.
        Her honors included an award from the Radiological Society of North America and the presidential gold medal from New York Academy of Sciences. She published an estimated 200 reports in journals.
        Legendary for her work habits, Dr. Goldfeder routinely went to her laboratory seven days a week and put in 12-hour shifts. Opera was one of her few diversions. Her philosophy: "Either you keep swimming, or you sink to the bottom." 'The Mystery of Life'
        When she first learned about cells as a student, she recalled, she was struck that "this was the mystery of life itself." She saw cancer as a special challenge and said she felt "humiliated" as a researcher when friends died of the disease.
        Dr. Goldfeder bred a strain of albino mice whose lack of naturally occurring tumors made them ideal for cancer experiments by researchers around the world. The strain was named X-GF, the GF standing for her last name.
        She was a pioneer in growing human breast cancer cells in cultures, researching radiation treatment and the effectiveness of different dosages and showing the importance of lead shielding of normal tissues during radiation.
        Most of her career was at the New York City Hospitals Department, where she was the director of cancer and radiological research, with academic affiliations at New York University. She also worked at Harvard and Columbia Universities, Lenox Hill Hospital, Rockefeller Institute and the University of Vienna. Her work was sponsored by grants and money from her own pocket.
        In 1977, the city closed Delafield Hospital where she worked. Nevertheless, the diminutive Dr. Goldfeder, 5 feet 2 inches tall, still strode through the deserted hallways to her lab and its colony of mice.
        Born in Poland, Dr. Goldfeder earned a doctorate in science at the University of Prague in 1923. In 1922, while completing her degree, she started working at Masaryk University in Brno, Czechoslovakia. Her research drew an invitation to the United States, and she immigrated in 1931.
        Dr. Goldfeder, who lost most of her family in the Holocaust, had no immediate survivors.
      