
        Ferruccio Lamborghini, who founded the industrial company that vied with Ferrari and Maserati to produce the most stylish of Italian sports cars, died on Saturday in Silvestrini Hospital in Perugia, the ANSA news agency reported. He was 76.
        Mr. Lamborghini suffered a heart attack on Feb. 5, said his son, Tonino Lamborghini.
        The luxury cars that bore his name achieved renown for chic and speed in the late 1960's, when customized models were ordered by people like Grace Kelly and Frank Sinatra. But the empire founded by Mr. Lamborghini, who was born near Ferrara in northern Italy, had far more modest beginnings. Growing up in a farming family in prewar Italy, he found little support for his desire to train as a mechanic, although his expertise served him in World War II, when he worked in the army motor pool.
        Later, he showed his interest in fast cars by tuning regular cars to go faster, and he once crashed in a custom-built model during a road race. Founded Tractor Business
        Using German tanks abandoned after the war, Mr. Lamborghini founded a tractor business that was later expanded to produce heating systems and automobile parts. His innovations included air-cooled engines.
        In 1959, Mr. Lamborghini visited the United States to acquire the technology for producing oil burners and air conditioners. During the same period, his interest in fast cars returned, according to one account, because he found a faulty part in his Ferrari and decided to branch out on his own.
        Assisted by Paolo Stanzani, an engineer, Mr. Lamborghini opened a technologically advanced factory near Bologna, in northern Italy, to produce the aerodynamic, low-slung sports cars that competed not only with other Italian models but also with Porsche and Jaguar as bywords for fast, high-class motoring. His first model appeared in 1963, and he soon had more than enough advance orders for production.
        The Lamborghini Miura SV and Countach were as renowned as the Porsche 911, the E-type Jaguar or the Ferraris of the time.
        In the 1970's, however, the world energy crisis bit deeply into the market for gas-guzzling, high-speed cars, and Mr. Lamborghini shed his majority stake in the company. In a rare instance of control of an Italian automaker passing to an outsider, the Chrysler Corporation took over the company in 1987.
        Since the early 1970's, Mr. Lamborghini had lived on a 740-acre estate near Lake Trasimeno, in Umbria, where his pursuits included the cultivation of vineyards and a collection of the sports cars his company had produced.
        It was not immediately known if he was survived by relatives other than his son.
      