
        Charles G. Tierney, a retired judge in the New York City and State courts, died on Tuesday at the New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center in New Rochelle. He was 86 and lived in Pelham.
        Justice Tierney was elected to the City Civil Court in 1961 and to the State Supreme Court in 1974. He retired in 1982 as a justice of the Appellate Term of that court.
        In an early case challenging the city's landmarks law, he rescinded the landmarking of the five Sailors Snug Harbor buildings on Staten Island, whose owner had sought their demolition and redevelopment. His 1967 opinion embodied the major argument against landmarking, saying it amounted to the government's taking property without just compensation. But the law was eventually upheld when his ruling was appealed and overturned. Congressional Counsel
        In another case in 1967, he ordered Mayor John V. Lindsay and other city officials to crack down on what the judge called "the madness and unhealthy situation that is rapidly enveloping" Greenwich Village. Residents had sued to stop the nuisances created by the crowds drawn to late-night coffee houses and shops. The Mayor objected to the ruling as extraordinary and said the city was already taking action.
        Before becoming a judge, Mr. Tierney was a lawyer with a general civil practice. From 1951-57 he was the chief counsel to the Public Works Committee of the House of Representatives and from 1957-61 was the chief attorney of the New York State Insurance Fund. A Democrat, he was a protege of United States Representative Charles Buckley, the party's chairman in the Bronx.
        Justice Tierney was born in Manhattan. He was educated at Manhattan College and Fordham Law School. In World War II, he served as a lieutenant in the Navy in the Atlantic and Pacific.
        His first wife, Catherine, died in 1968. He is survived by his second wife, the former Dorothy Walker; two daughters, Clare Carr and Ann Barrett, both of Hazlet, N.J.; two stepdaughters, Angela Robertson and Joyce Turvin; three stepsons, Warren, George and Paul McGoldrick, and seven grandchildren.
      