
        Irwin M. Altman, the superintendent of the school district that for years has ranked first in reading and mathematics scores in New York City, died on Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 66 and a resident of the Bronx.
        The cause of death was cancer, a school district spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Altman was a past president of the city Association of Superintendents and a member of the state Marchi Commission on education. He had headed District 26 in northeast Queens since 1982 and before that was a deputy superintendent in the Bronx.
        Mr. Altman, an innovator, initiated planning for the year 2000, increased parental involvement, formed partnerships with universities and created middle schools with a new curriculum. And last Saturday he opened an American heritage course for adults and children. Racially Charged Dispute
        In 1969, Mr. Altman drew citywide attention in a racially charged dispute over his promotion as acting principal of Public Sschool 164 in Fort Washington in Manhattan, an overcrowded black and Hispanic school that was on double sessions.
        Mr. Altman, as a white principal, was faced with a student boycott and picketing by the parent-teacher association and the Black Panthers demanding an end to double sessions and the naming of a black principal. They threatened to physically remove Mr. Altman.
        The local school board named a black replacement, but city school officials reinstated Mr. Altman. Albert Shanker, the teachers' union president, denounced the protesters as terrorists, and Mayor John V. Lindsay ordered the police to safeguard Mr. Altman in his office.
        "I am the man in the middle," he said. His supporters noted that he had chosen to work in schools where there were mostly minority students.
        Mr. Altman was born in the Bronx. In World War II he served in the United States Army Air Force. After graduating from New York University in 1948, he earned a master's degree there in 1950. He started teaching as a substitute in 1949.
        He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Marilyn; his mother, Jane, of the Bronx; a daughter, Candy Bergantino of Boston; a son, Arthur, of Wantagh, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      