
        Hans Jonas, who fled Nazi Germany and became an influential philosopher, died yesterday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 89.
        Professor Jonas drew wide attention in 1964 when he repudiated an early mentor, the German thinker Martin Heidegger, for being pro-Hitler in the Nazi era.
        Mr. Jonas joined the graduate faculty of the New School for Social Research in Manhattan in 1955. He was chairman of the philosophy department from 1957 to 1963 and the Alvin Johnson Professor of Philosophy from 1966 until his retirement in 1976. In his later years, he became prominent in the field of biomedical ethics. Repudiated Heidegger
        In 1964, he received a standing ovation at a theological meeting at Drew University in Madison, N.J., when he repudiated Dr. Heidegger (1889-1976), the philosopher under whom he had studied in Germany before Hitler came to power.
        Professor Jonas, who was Jewish, had been invited to Drew to discuss Dr. Heidegger's thought and its relation to Christian theology. Addressing the gathering, he quoted the Bible's call to "do justice, and to love mercy and walk humbly with your God" and said that Dr. Heidegger's thought did not "provide a norm by which to decide how to answer such calls."
        "Heidegger's own answer is on record," he continued. "Here it is, spoken to the students of Germany: 'Not theorems and ideas be the rules of your being. The Fuhrer himself and alone is the present and future German reality and its law. Heil Hitler!' "
        In recent decades, Professor Jonas became revered by many scholars concerned with ethical and religious issues ranging from organ transplantation to the dialogue between Christians and Jews.
        "He was one of the first philosophers in America to take questions of medical ethics seriously back in the mid 1960's," Daniel Callahan, the director of the Hastings Center, a research organization in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. that is devoted to biomedical ethics, said yesterday. "He made important contributions on the question of the definition of death and on the moral problems of the use of human beings for medical research. He was thus one of the pioneers in the field of biomedical ethics." Tackled Hard Topics
        Dr. Leon R. Kass, the Harding Professor in the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago, said yesterday that Professor Jonas "was willing to tackle certain large philosophical topics that most professional philosophers stayed away from."
        Dr. Kass, a medical doctor who writes on philosophical and ethical topics involving the relationship between science and human affairs, said that Professor Jonas's book "The Phenomenon of Life" (Harper & Row, 1966) "insisted, in the face of the new discoveries of modern biology, on the importance of certain enduring questions about the mysterious character of living beings and showed us how one could continue to philosophize about them with clarity and with profit."
        Professor Jonas's interests evolved over the decades. He was a historian of religion before he became active as a philosopher with knowledge of biology. Later he turned to questions of ethics and emphasized that modern technology posed enormous problems for mankind.
        He wrote a dozen books, of which four, including "The Phenomenon of Life," were published in the United States. The other three were "The Gnostic Religion" (Beacon Press, 1958), "Philosophical Essays" (University of Chicago, 1974) and "The Imperative of Responsibility" (University of Chicago, 1984). Doctorate in 1928
        Professor Jonas was born in Monchengladbach, Germany, the son of Gustav Jonas and the former Rosa Horowitz. He studied under Dr. Heidegger at the University of Freiburg and earned his doctorate, summa cum laude, from the University of Marburg in 1928.
        He fled Germany in 1933 when Hitler came to power, taught in Jerusalem, served in the British Army in World War II, taught in Jerusalem again, served in the Israeli military and taught in Canada before coming to the New School.
        Professor Jonas is survived by his wife, the former Eleanore Weiner, to whom he was married in 1943; a son, John F. of Washington; two daughters, Ayalah Sorkin of Wayne, Pa. and Gabrielle Jonas of Manhattan; two grandchildren, and a brother, Georg of Ramat Gan, Israel.
      