
        Arthur J. Santry Jr., a retired business executive and yachtsman, died on Wednesday at a hospital in his hometown, Greenwich, Conn. He was 74.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Santry was the president and later chairman of Combustion Engineering Inc. The company expanded to become a leading national manufacturer of oil and gas drilling and refining equipment. It also built nuclear and steam power plants. Sales grew to billions of dollars a year. At its peak, the company had 42,000 employees.
        Mr. Santry joined the business as corporate secretary in 1956, when his uncle, Joseph, was president. In 1963 Mr. Santry was promoted to president and chief executive and was elected chairman in 1982. He retired in 1988.
        Originally the company had headquarters in Manhattan. It then moved to Stamford, Conn., and was sold to Asea Brown Boveri, a conglomerate.
        Mr. Santry also served on the boards of Bristol-Myers, Squibb, Singer, Putnam Trust, Amax, Emhart and Swiss Re North America. Led New York Yacht Club
        An ardent sailor, Mr. Santry served as the New York Yacht Club's commodore in 1986-87.
        He also served on the boards of the Westminister School, Greenwich Country Day School, Choate-Rosemary Hall and Greenwich Hospital.
        Mr. Santry was born in Boston and grew up in Brookline, Mass. On graduating from Williams College in 1941, he enlisted in the Navy and served as a lieutenant in the Mediterranean and Pacific in World War II.
        After receiving a law degree at Harvard, in 1948 he joined the law firm of Putnam, Bell, Dutch & Santry in Boston. He specialized in corporate and maritime cases.
        Surviving are his wife of 37 years, Julia Timmins; four sons, Arthur 3d, of Washington, Peter, of Manhattan, Charles, of Boston and Robert, of Manhattan; a daughter, Susanne Cochin de Billy of London; a brother, Joseph, of Marblehead, Mass.; two sisters, Suzanne Connolly of Marblehead and Margaret Santry of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      