
        Robert W. Holley, a biologist who won the Nobel Prize for unraveling the genetic code of ribonucleic acid, or RNA, died Thursday at his home in Los Gatos, Calif. He was 71.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, said the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, Calif., where he was a fellow and professor since 1966.
        The 1968 Nobel for medicine and physiology was awarded to Dr. Holley and two other scientists, Marshall W. Nirenberg and H. Gobind Khorana for research on related aspects of genetic coding that each conducted independently.
        Dr. Holley was the first to unravel the internal structure in a strand of RNA, which helps determine what form and role each cell takes in a larger organism. Under the RNA's direction, building blocks of proteins become flower petals, fingernails, butterfly wings and every other living thing.
        The specific substance he analyzed was alanine transfer RNA, painstakingly derived from yeast. It took three years to isolate a 30th of an ounce of the material from 200 pounds of yeast and another four years to decipher the exact sequence of key ingredients in its 77 subunits.
        His findings were reported in a two-sentence abstract in a scientific journal in 1965: "The complete nucleotide sequence of an alanine transfer RNA, isolated from yeast, has been determined. This is the first nucleic acid for which the structure is known."
        The discovery was soon hailed as a breakthrough in understanding the basic chemistry of life.
        Dr. Holley's RNA work was at the United States Department of Agriculture's Plant, Soil and Nutrition Laboratory at Cornell University. Work on Cell Growth
        His later research at Salk focused on the factors that stimulate or inhibit the growth of cells in mammals, in both normal body functions like the healing of wounds and also in abnormalities like cancer. His most recent work studied the factors in the timing of cell division, a critical element in the growth process.
        Dr. Brian Henderson, the Salk Institute president, said Dr. Holley's "discoveries deepened our understanding of cell growth and opened new possibilities for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and other diseases."
        Other subjects he studied included peptides, plant hormones, nitrogen metabolism, protein biosynthesis and beta lactams, which are a family of antibiotics.
        His work won numerous honors besides the Nobel, including the Lasker Award in 1965, an American Cancer Society research professorship and a National Academy of Sciences award in molecular biology in 1967. He also held fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation, National Science Foundation, National Research Council and American Chemical Society.
        Born in Urbana, Ill., Dr. Holley grew up there and in California and Idaho.
        After graduating from the University of Illinois in 1942, he earned a doctorate in organic chemistry at Cornell in 1947. During World War II he did Government research and was part of the five-member team at Cornell that first synthesized penicillin.
        He taught organic chemistry at Cornell's agricultural station at Geneva, N.Y., starting in 1948, and in 1958 joined the Plant, Soil and Nutrition Laboratory. He taught biochemistry and molecular biology at Cornell starting in 1962 and was the chairman of the Biochemistry Department in 1965-66.
        After joining Salk, he also worked with the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena and the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation in La Jolla.
        He was an avid outdoorsman and an amateur sculptor of bronze.
        Surviving are his wife of 48 years, the former Ann Dworkin; a son, Frederick, of Los Gatos; three brothers, Charles E., of Flintridge, Calif., Frank E., of Pittsford, N.Y., and G. Herbert, of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      