
        Dr. George N. Marshall, a retired leader in the Unitarian Universalist Association, died on Feb. 15 after collapsing while walking his dog near his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 77.
        He died as a result of heart failure, the church headquarters said.
        From 1960 to 1985 Dr. Marshall was the minister of the world's largest and most unconventional Unitarian Universalist body, the Church of the Larger Fellowship, which operates without a central sanctuary or congregation.
        From offices in Boston, the church reaches about 4,000 members around the world by mail, computer network, fax, audio and videotaped sermons, publications and toll-free telephone numbers for counseling. Small groups worshiping together get a "church in a box," a kit with drawings on the outside resembling a miniature church that contains material for a service.
        An officer in his denomination, Dr. Marshall headed an American Unitarian Association board that planned the merger with the Universalist Church. Wrote 10 Books
        He wrote 10 books on religious and social themes, including two books on his longtime friend, Albert Schweitzer, the African missionary. Dr. Marshall was a founding member of the American Friends of Albert Schweitzer.
        He was also the minister of churches in Niagara Falls, N.Y., Natick, Mass., and South Easton, Mass., and of the historic First Church in Plymouth, Mass., founded by the Pilgrims who landed at Plymouth Rock.
        He took part in civil rights marches in Selma, Ala., and was an outspoken advocate of the separation of church and state, opposing prayer in public schools and tax aid to religious schools.
        Dr. Marshall was a native of Bozeman, Mont. After graduating from Tufts University and its School of Religion, he earned a master's degree from Harvard University and a doctorate from Walden University in Naples, Fla.
        In World War II he was an Air Force chaplain, counseling the widows of slain airmen.
        His marriage to Barbara Ambrose ended in divorce. His survivors include a son, Charles, of West Bridgewater, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      