
        Fletcher Knebel, co-author of the best-selling cold war novel "Seven Days in May" and a retired syndicated newspaper columnist, died on Friday at his home in Honolulu at the age of 81.
        Mr. Knebel, who as a member of the Hemlock Society had supported a right to suicide, took his own life with sleeping pills, said his wife, Constance. She said he had left two notes saying he was ending his suffering from lung cancer and heart ailments.
        For 13 years starting in 1951, Mr. Knebel wrote a nationally published daily column, "Potomac Fever," which satirized national politics and government. President John F. Kennedy called him "Washington's most widely read and widely plagiarized" commentator.
        The popularity of "Seven Days in May," the tale of an attempted right-wing military coup in the United States, gave him a new career. Eventually he wrote 14 books, most of them novels, that were translated for distribution in 30 countries and sold more than six million copies. Leader in Book Sales
        Written with Charles W. Bailey 2d, "Seven Days" (Harper & Row, 1962) led American book sales for nearly a year. In 1964 the story was made into a major movie of the same title, starring Burt Lancaster, Fredric March and Kirk Douglas.
        Mr. Knebel said he got the idea for the book while interviewing Gen. Curtis LeMay, onetime Air Force Chief of Staff, who went off the record to accuse President Kennedy of cowardice in his handling of the Bay of Pigs crisis.
        The themes of his later books included a mentally ill President, political repression in Central America and black militancy in the United States.
        Born in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Knebel grew up in Oak Park, Ill., and Yonkers.
        After graduating from Miami University of Ohio, he started as a reporter at The Daily Record in Coatesville, Pa. He went on to The News in Chattanooga, Tenn.; The News Bee in Toledo, Ohio, and The Cleveland Plain Dealer, where he became the Washington correspondent in 1936. In 1950 he joined Cowles Communications.
        In World War II he served as a lieutenant in the Navy.
        Mr. Knebel was known as a colorful character. He supported the legalization of marijuana, which he said he started smoking in 1968 because it is "better for me than whiskey." He entertained hundreds of friends by sending them "conception cards" nine months before their birthdays and describing events that happened while they were in the womb.
        His marriages to Amelia Raupuis and Marian Park Davis ended in divorce. His third wife, the former Laura Bergquist, was found dead from an overdose of sedatives in 1982.
        Besides his wife, the former Constance Wood, his survivors include a son, Jack; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      