
        John F. McKean, a tenant organizer and community leader, died on Friday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said his nephew, Kevin McKean.
        Mr. McKean, a former real-estate executive, led fellow tenants in the Tudor City apartment complex in their successful fight in the 1970's and 1980's to stop the owner, the developer Harry Helmsley, from building a high-rise in their midst.
        As president of the tenants association at Tudor City -- a stately collection of English cottage-style buildings near the United Nations on Manhattan's East Side -- Mr. McKean helped preserve the two private parks that give Tudor City the flavor of a peaceful oasis in the middle of a noisy and congested borough.
        His cunning in persuading political leaders -- Edward I. Koch, then a Congressman -- to side with the tenants, and his ingenuity in organizing the tenants themselves, is detailed in Michael Moss's 1989 book about Mr. Helmsley and his wife, Leona, "The Palace Coup." Familiar with property law from his own business dealings, Mr. McKean filed lawsuits, set up rallies and lobbied various arms of city government.
        The struggle also included moments of high drama. When Mr. Helmsley sent workers to begin leveling the parks at 7 A.M. on Memorial Day in 1980, Mr. McKean grabbed a bullhorn to summon tenants from their apartments to form a human chain, warding off the workers.
        Mr. Helmsley abandoned plans for redevelopment in Tudor City in 1985, when he sold part of the complex and reached a settlement with tenants that converted rent-stabilized apartments into cooperatives.
        Mr. McKean spent most of his career as a real-estate executive. He was president of Fish & Marvin, a Manhattan real-estate agency, when he retired 20 years ago.
        A graduate of Williams College, where he excelled in boxing, Mr. McKean served for four years in the United States Navy, much of it aboard PT boats in the Philippines. He was awarded the Legion of Merit in 1945.
        Besides his nephew, he is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Rutkowski; three brothers, Hugh and Keith of Winter Park, Fla., and Vance F. of Laguna Beach, Calif.; two children from an earlier marriage, Sandra M. Ogden of Belvedere, Calif., and Susan F. Gibbs of Woodside, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      