
        Robert Triffin, the Belgian-born Yale economist who championed European unity for much of his life and correctly foresaw the demise of the Bretton Woods international monetary system, died on Tuesday in Ostend, Belgium. He was 81.
        He suffered from emphysema, his son Nicholas said.
        For several decades, Professor Triffin was at the center of the debate over the international monetary system.
        An ardent internationalist, he stepped into the limelight when he warned in the late 1950's that the Bretton Woods system was inherently unstable and would eventually unravel. Under the system, any country could present the United States Treasury with dollars and receive gold at $35 an ounce. When the United States ran balance-of-payments deficits, other countries would pile up more and more dollars, United States gold reserves would dwindle and a liquidity crisis would ensue. Professor Proved Right
        History proved Professor Triffin right, but he mourned the demise of the system of fixed exchange rates of which he was a lifelong champion.
        "He was unhappy with the way the international monetary system evolved when he saw instability of floating exchange rates and the rise of inflation," said Michael Mussa, chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
        Professor Triffin wrote a large number of books and articles. His dissertation, Monopolistic Competition and General Equilibrium Theory, proved to be a surprisingly modern approach to international trade that has recently generated interest among the current generation of international economists.
        "He was also an activist," said James Tobin, his colleague at Yale and a Nobel laureate.
        Professor Triffin was, for example, the architect of European currency convertibility after World War II and helped end the wartime system of bilateral trade and exchange controls, paving the way for expanded trade. He was also assisted in the formation of the Common Market. More recently, he was a strong supporter of a European central bank.
        "He believed that movements of goods, money and capital were the road to peace and prosperity," Professor Tobin said.
        When the King of Belgium made him a baron in 1989, Professor Triffin chose as his motto a paraphrase of Belgium's national motto, transposing "Unity makes strength" into "Unity makes peace." Retired From Yale in 1977
        Professor Triffin won several high honors in economics including the San Paolo Prize for Economics in 1987 and the Frank E. Seidman Distinguished Award in Political Economy in 1989.
        Professor Triffin, who was born in Flobecq, Belgium, in 1911, studied economics at the Catholic University at Louvain, where he had been a guest lecturer since his retirement from Yale in 1977, and at Harvard University. He decided to stay in the United States after he completed his graduate studies and became an American citizen in 1942.
        A memorial service is scheduled for March 23 in Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium. In addition to his son Nicholas, he is survived by his wife, Lois, and two other sons, Kerry and Eric.
      