
        Sir Dick White, the former Director General of two British intelligence agencies, M.I.5 and M.I.6, has died at his home in the Sussex region of southern England, The Associated Press yesterday quoted his family as saying. He was 87.
        His family said that Sir Dick, who had been living quietly in retirement, had been suffering from intestinal cancer, the agency said. The date of his death was not immediately available.
        It was from 1953 to 1956 that Sir Dick, a veteran intelligence figure who was knighted in 1955, was the chief of M.I.5, Britain's internal security organization, overseeing counterespionage inside the country.
        He then became the head, until the late 1960's, of M.I.6, Britain's overseas intelligence organization, which has also been known as the Secret Intelligence Service. From 1969 until his retirement in 1972, he served as Intelligence Coordinator to the British Cabinet, a function that was said to have been especially created for him.
        As chief of M.I.5 and M.I.6, he was a powerful but very little known figure until his identity was trumpeted in 1967 by an article in an American magazine, The Saturday Evening Post. The British Government did not officially reveal the names of its ranking intelligence officials until recently.
        Intelligence Rules Tightened
        Christopher Andrew, a Cambridge University scholar, wrote in his 1986 book "Her Majesty's Secret Service," (Viking) that after becoming the Director of M.I.6, Sir Dick "tightened up the ground rules and specifically forbade assassination."
        Mr. Andrew also reported that Sir Dick had long been convinced that Kim Philby, a longtime British intelligence figure, had been spying for the Soviet Union, and that he "was determined to track him down." Incriminating evidence about Mr. Philby came from defectors who had worked for Soviet intelligence, and in 1963 he fled to safety in the Soviet Union from Beirut, where he had been working as a journalist.
        Sir Dick was also one of the people in Britain who learned that Sir Anthony Blunt, a highly placed British expert on art, had been recruited as a young man to spy for the Soviet Union. Sir Anthony later confessed and was stripped of his knighthood.
        Sir Dick, whose middle name was Goldsmith, was the son of Percy Hall White and the former Gertrude Farthing. He was educated at Bishops Stortford College and at Oxford University in Britain and reported, in his entry in the British Who's Who, that he also studied at "the Universities of Michigan and California."
        In World War II, he was a colonel in the British Army and was assigned to Allied headquarters. After the war he rose in the ranks of M.I.5.
        His decorations included the United States Legion of Merit and the French Croix de Guerre. He was a member of the Garrick Club in London.
        Sir Dick was married in 1945 to Kathleen Bellamy, and they had two sons.
      