
        Ora Smith, for many years the world's leading expert on potatoes, died on Feb. 4 at a nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 92.
        His family said the cause was pneumonia.
        Dr. Smith's technical innovations helped to make possible the mass production of potato chips and frozen french fries, which then gained wide popularity as snack foods. He was an emeritus professor of vegetable crops at Cornell University and was fondly known on campus as Mr. Potato.
        Experimenting in a modest basement laboratory, he researched improvements in the growing, storage and processing of potatoes. His findings helped to improve quality and to reduce waste and costs.
        When he began his studies in the 1940's, only 2 percent of the nation's potato crop was sold for commercial processing. Now nearly two-thirds of it is processed for consumption. To Inhibit Sprouting
        Among his contributions, Dr. Smith discovered a chemical to inhibit potato eyes from sprouting during storage and another additive to prevent cooked potatoes from turning a sickly gray. He tinkered with amino acids to bring out the tastiest flavor.
        Because potatoes with high water content are not ideal for processing, he invented the potato hydrometer, a device measuring moisture. And because potatoes with high sugar levels turn an unappetizing dark brown when fried, he applied a simple sugar test for sampling potatoes.
        Dr. Smith was a past president of the Potato Association of America and was honored by the National Potato Council and the European Association for Potato Research. He was the founding research director of the Potato Chip Institute International, now the Snack Food Institute, a post he held for 26 years.
        He wrote a book on potatoes and was the co-author of a text on potato processing, both of which remain standard references. He wrote more than 500 articles for scientific journals and general publications, including the entry on potatoes for the Encyclopedia Britannica. New Generation of Experts
        As a teacher, he trained a new generation of experts. They included Dr. Richard L. Sawyer, founder and director of the International Center for Potato Research in Lima, Peru, the world headquarters for potato studies.
        In World War II, Dr. Smith helped the Army by working on the improvement of the color of dehydrated potatoes for military food. He also served on a farm commission for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, worked as a consultant to the United States Department of Agriculture and visited many foreign countries in his research.
        Dr. Smith, a native of Freeburg, Ill., graduated from the University of Illinois in 1923. He earned a master's degree from Iowa State University in 1924 and a doctorate in plant physiology from the University of California in 1929. He joined Cornell in 1930 and formally retired in 1967 but continued his work until recent years.
        Surviving are his wife of 65 years, the former Dr. Laura Lee Weisbrodt, an emeritus professor of hotel administration at Cornell; a son, Dr. James S., of Coatesville, Pa.; a daughter, Sarah Jane Burton of Guelph, Ontario; a brother, Waldo, of Beardstown, Ill.; nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      