
        Raoul Hague, an American sculptor whose massive carved wood sculptures often resembled abstract versions of the tree trunks they once were, died yesterday at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 88.
        The cause was heart failure, said Jill Weinberg of Lennon, Weinberg Inc., the Manhattan gallery that represents the artist.
        Mr. Hague was perhaps the last late bloomer of a late-blooming generation of artists, the Abstract Expressionists, who were often in their 30's or 40's before they became well known. Although he was included in one of the Museum of Modern Art's famous "Americans" exhibitions in 1956, he did not have his first solo gallery show, at the Egan Gallery, until six years later, when he was 57. And for much of his life he remained a kind of underground artist, best known to other artists, with only six more one-man shows in New York. Since the mid-1940's he had lived alone in Woodstock, where he spent most of his time outside the studio reading books.
        He worked slowly and entirely by hand, making cuts in his large chunks of wood only after carefully studying them. He is said to have worked on one sculpture, off and on, for nearly 25 years. In like manner, his sculptures, which could also resemble truncated torsos, were deceptively simple, possessing a subtlety of form and a richness of surface that revealed themselves slowly. Trusting the Eyes
        Mr. Hague, whose original name was Heukelekian Hague, was born in Constantinople. He came to the United States in 1921 to study at the University of Iowa but soon moved to Chicago and began taking classes at the School of the Art Institute. In Chicago, he adopted the name Raoul while working briefly as half of a tango duo in vaudeville.
        Moving to New York in 1925, he monitored William Zorach's course in sculpture at the Art Students League and was also encouraged by the sculptor John Flanagan. He was befriended by Arshile Gorky, Bradley Walker Tomlin and Philip Guston, who for many years was his next-door neighbor in Woodstock. He once told an interviewer that these were the only artists "whose eyes I could trust, and I have used them in my development."
        Although Mr. Hague began his career carving in stone, he began working in wood after moving to Woodstock because stone was difficult to acquire there. By the late 1940's, he was working exclusively in wood, especially walnut, finding trees in the Catskills. He soon developed a network of contacts in the area who let him know when a big tree had been cut down or had arrived at a local lumberyard.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      