
        Dr. Howard A. Paul, developer of a robotic surgical device tested on human patients in California, died on Wednesday at Stanford University Hospital. He was 59 and lived in Loomis, Calif.
        The cause of death was leukemia, said Integrated Surgical Systems of Sacramento, Calif. Dr. Paul was Integrated's co-founder, chairman and chief executive.
        Dr. Paul, a veterinarian who was known as Hap, founded the company in 1990 with the support of the International Business Machines Corporation. He was widely known for his research in applying three-dimensional imaging and robotics in the operating room.
        The result was Robodoc, a five-foot arm with a high-speed drill and complex imaging technology designed to provide surgeons with far greater accuracy than their hands could insure. 10 Tests With Robodoc
        The Federal Food and Drug Administration approved Robodoc for 10 tests. The first test was done in a hip replacement operation in November. The last was performed at Sutter General Hospital in Sacramento on Thursday, the day after Dr. Paul died. It remains up to the drug agency to decide whether the device will become a permanent feature in American operating rooms.
        Dr. William Bargar, an orthopedic surgeon who had collaborated with Dr. Paul, predicted that such robots would become part of many procedures, including knee replacements, ligament repairs and the removal of brain tumors.
        In the first test in November, a 64-year-old man underwent surgery on a Saturday, stood up on Sunday and began to walk with his artificial hip on Monday. The machine, connected to a computer, was guided by imaging data portraying the patient's bones. That allowed the surgeon to set forth a strategy for creating a cavity. He then cut through the soft tissue and watched the robot drill a precise hole into which he inserted the implant without cement.
        "Hap Paul was a visionary," said Dr. Bargar, his friend, who performed six of the surgeries in the study. "But unlike a lot of visionaries, he had grit and determination." Surgery on Dogs
        As a veterinarian, Dr. Paul performed hundreds of joint replacements on dogs and other animals. That work and his I.B.M.-financed research on combining imaging and robotics led to Robodoc.
        "He couldn't bear to see animals suffer or to put them down if there was an alternative," said Dr. Wendy Shelton, his wife and a fellow veterinarian. "That was why he worked so hard to make technology work effectively in the operating room."
        A native of West Hartford, Conn., Dr. Paul was a microbiology graduate of the University of Notre Dame. He then took part in a research project on human interferon in France, where he also earned his veterinary degree. Returning to the United States in 1959, he finished his training at the University of California at Davis.
        During nine years on the faculty of the Medical School at Davis, he met Dr. Bargar. In the mid-1980's the two carried out the first hip replacement on a snow leopard at the Calgary Zoo.
        Working as chief of surgery for the Sacramento Animal Medical Group, Dr. Paul undertook many such operations and concluded that existing methods of hollowing out bones lacked precision. Speaking for human patients, Dr. Bargar concurred.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Paul is survived by his daughter, Eliza; his parents, Leonard and Teddy Paul of Bloomfield, Conn.; twin brothers, Peter and David, both of Los Angeles, and his sister, Debra Paul Rostowsky of West Hartford.
        Correction:  March 2, 1993, Tuesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Feb. 13 about Dr. Howard A. Paul, developer of a robotic surgical system, misstated his age. He was 44.
      