
        Michel Renault, who was one of the Paris Opera Ballet's most popular postwar stars, died on Friday in a hospital outside Paris. He was 65 and lived in Paris.
        A spokesman for the Opera Ballet said the cause of death was hepatitis.
        Mr. Renault studied with Carlotta Zambelli, Albert Aveline and Gustave Ricaux, who were considered the Paris school's finest teachers in the 1940's. But it was two Russian-born choreographers, George Balanchine and Serge Lifar, who singled him out for special attention when they headed the Paris Opera Ballet.
        Balanchine, who served as the company's balletmaster in 1947, cast Mr. Renault in all his works that year. Mr. Renault created the chief male role in the third section of "Palais de Cristal," which was renamed "Symphony in C" in American productions. He performed the title role in "Apollo" and danced in two other Balanchine ballets, "Serenade" and "Le Baiser de la Fee." Taught in New York
        Mr. Renault appeared with the Paris Opera Ballet during its United States debut in 1948, and was invited by Balanchine to teach at the New York City Ballet and at the School of American Ballet in the 1960's and 1970's. Mr. Renault also taught at the Briansky Ballet Center in Sarataga, N.Y., for several summers in the same period.
        It was in Lifar's ballets, however, that Mr. Renault, with his strong technique and natural brio, made his name. At 18, he became the youngest male dancer to be appointed to the rank of etoile at the Paris Opera. Among the Lifar works in which he was acclaimed were "Les Mirages" and "Romeo et Juliette." He also performed in such classics of the French repertory as "Sylvia" and "Giselle."
        Mr. Renault retired from dancing in the mid-1960's. A colorful and outspoken personality, he was openly critical of others in his profession. During a highly publicized incident in the 1980's, Rudolf Nureyev punched Mr. Renault in the nose in a dispute over rehearsal space. Mr. Renault had returned to teach at the Paris Opera Ballet School in 1972 and retired in 1987.
      