
        Harvey Kurtzman, a cartoonist and a pop-culture historian who founded and created Mad magazine and was a guiding force in several other satirical magazines, died on Sunday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 68.
        Byron Preiss, his publisher at Visual Publications Inc., in New York, said the cause was complications of liver cancer. Mr. Preiss described Mr. Kurtzman as "one of the greatest cartoonists of the 20th century."
        Art Spiegelman, a friend who created the Pulitzer Prize-winning "Maus" books, said Mr. Kurtzman had developed a new kind of humor that changed the way America saw itself. "Kurtzman's Mad held a mirror up to American society, exposing the hypocrisies and distortions of mass media with jazzy grace and elegance," he said.
        "He's our first post-modern humorist, laying the groundwork for such contemporary humor and satire as 'Saturday Night Live,' Monty Python and 'Naked Gun,' he continued, calling Mr. Kurtzman "the spiritual godfather of underground comics."
        Mr. Kurtzman began his career in comic books in 1943, when his work first appeared in Ace's Magno. He later worked at Hey Look and Timely Comics, and in 1950 moved to EC Comics, which was owned by William M. Gaines, who died last year.
        Encouraged by Gaines
        Mr. Kurtzman, who had been interviewing Korean War veterans for combat comic books, came down with jaundice and decided to create something that he could write from his sickbed.
        Mr. Gaines encouraged Mr. Kurtzman's idea for a magazine that later became Mad and which first appeared in 1952.
        Several years later, Mr. Kurtzman left to run another magazine, Trump, which was backed by Hugh Hefner. He also created the magazines Humbug and Help.
        Mr. Kurtzman was credited with being the creative force behind the mascot of the original Mad, the impish Alfred E. Neuman, as well as the comic strip "Little Annie Fanny" in Playboy.
        Taught Cartoon Storytelling
        Mr. Kurtzman, who grew up reading Sunday newspaper comic strips and became obsessed with the genre, had his first cartoon published when he was 14. He attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan and was a scholarship student at Cooper Union.
        Before going on to Mad, Mr. Kurtzman edited Two-Fisted Tales and Frontline Combat, for EC Comics. Both were well-researched, serious comic books about the nature and moral complexities of war. He also taught cartoon storytelling at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan.
        He wrote a children's book, "My Life as a Cartoonist," and "Strange Adventures." His last book, "From Aargh! to Zap!: Harvey Kurtzman's Visual History of the Comics," was published two years ago.
        He is survived by his wife, Adele; three daughters, Cornelia, Elizabeth and Meredith; a son, Peter, and two brothers, Zachary and Dan.
      