
        Charles F. Willis Jr., a pilot hailed as a hero in World War II and an aviation industry pioneer who was instrumental in persuading Dwight D. Eisenhower to run for President, died Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 74 and lived in Washington.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Willis was the co-founder and manager of Citizens for Eisenhower. The organization popularized the "I Like Ike" slogan and gathered support that helped push Eisenhower into the Presidential race.
        Accepting the Republican nomination in 1952, Eisenhower said, "I would not have been here as a candidate if it had not been for Charlie Willis and Stan Rumbough," the group's other co-founder. White House Assistant
        After the election, Mr. Willis served as a special White House assistant in charge of appointments, patronage and aviation and was also chairman of the United States Committee for the United Nations.
        After the war he founded Willis Air Service, using $13,000 in military pay he had saved and loans from friends. The company rapidly grew into an international freight line, shipping Seventh Avenue dresses to Dallas, picking up shrimp in New Orleans and even carrying American cattle in straw-padded planes to Bogota, Columbia. But regulators closed the airline for unauthorized operations.
        In 1957 he became head of Alaska Airlines, expanding what was a small company into a central service in Alaskan development. The company airlifted equipment for oil exploration in Prudhoe Bay, helped introduce in-flight music and movies, and in 1970 won the first agreement from the Soviet Union to fly tourists from Anchorage to Moscow and Siberia.
        He helped develop pilot training for Japan Air Lines and, on a trade mission to South Korea for President John F. Kennedy, guided the creation of Korean Air Lines. Repeatedly Defied Death
        Mr. Willis enlisted in the Navy in 1940 to become a pilot. He was one of the first American casualties of the war. He and his roommate were running to their planes at Kaneohe Field in Hawaii as Japanese planes headed for Pearl Harbor shot at them. His roommate was killed.
        He flew 250 combat missions in the Pacific and 35 in Europe. His 23 major decorations included three Distinguished Flying Crosses, three Air Medals, eight battle stars and a Presidential unit citation.
        His marriages to Grace Boardman Eddy, Elizabeth Firestone, Valerie Craig and Marion Henderson ended in divorces.
        His survivors include his companion, Christine Bell; two daughters, Post W. Scharnberger of Duxbury, Mass., and Elizabeth W. Leatherman of Boston; three sons, Charles 3d and R. Reese, both of San Francisco, and Brigham C., of Half Moon Bay, Calif.; two sisters, Margaret W. Sparrow of Baltimore and Dorothy W. McDonald of Leesburg Va., and four grandchildren.
      