
        Alphonse W. Salamone, who started as a hotel desk clerk in Knoxville, Tenn., and rose to manage the Plaza and Waldorf-Astoria in New York and to lead national hotel chains, died on Tuesday at his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In the 1960's Mr. Salamone rescued the Plaza Hotel from dwindling occupancy and revenue. "This old girl was on the verge of being torn down," he said then. As the Plaza's general manager and vice president of its parent Hotel Corporation of America, he directed a renovation that included moving Trader Vic's from the defunct Savoy.
        Most of his career was with the Hilton chain. In 1947 he began his first period of service at the Plaza, then a Hilton property, and became its manager. Next he ran the Caribe Hilton in San Juan. As the Caribbean vice president, he supervised hotel openings in Barbados, Curacao and the Virgin Islands. He was promoted to senior vice president for Eastern properties and was directly in charge of the New York and Washington Hiltons and the Waldorf.
        In the 1980's he headed Coleman hotels, including the Ritz-Carlton in New York and in Washington and the Whitehall and Tremont in Chicago. In the late 1960's he was the president of New York's Realty Hotels: the Barclay, Biltmore, Roosevelt and Commodore. Stressed Superior Service
        While the industry shifted from genteel traditions to modernized management, he said that success still depended on winning repeat customers with superior service. "All people have when they leave a hotel," he said, "is a receipted bill and a memory."
        He was a past chairman of the National Hotel and Motel Exposition, president of the Hotel Association of New York City, chairman of New York's Council of Midtown Associations, vice chairman of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau and a member of New York State's Board of Tourism.
        A native of Winnipeg, Canada, he grew up in Knoxville, Tenn., where he worked at the Andrew Johnson Hotel. In World War II he fought in Europe in the Army, becoming a major and earning a Bronze Star and five battle citations.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Bernadette Villano; two sons, Gregg, of Chicago, and Robert, of Phoenix; a daughter, Lourdes Knopfler of London; three brothers, Phillip, of San Diego and Gregory and Jerome, both of Knoxville; three sisters, Orsella Davis of Boca Raton, Fla., Phyllis McCarthy of New Hampshire and Yolanda Rogers of Maryland, and five grandchildren.
      