
        Charles William Eliot 2d, a retired city planner, conservationist, educator and government official, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 93.
        Mr. Eliot was an early practitioner of modern professional planning to cope with and manage change. During World War II, when some spoke of the eventual end of wartime restrictions and a return to normality, he said: "We're not going back to anything. We are going forward." He advocated better housing, more recreation and parks for "pleasing natural scenery as an antidote to the nervous tension of city life."
        His advice was not always heeded. Decades ago he warned that unless Los Angeles preserved its citrus groves, urban sprawl would swallow them. His 1929 idea for parks encircling Boston did not take form until recent years, in limited trails. A New Deal Official
        He was the city planner for Washington and director of the National Capital Park and Planning Commission from 1926 to 1933, when he was a proponent of Rock Creek Park.
        As a New Deal official from 1933 to 1943, he served as the executive officer of the National Planning Board and the National Resources Planning Board. He helped plan Public Works Administration projects and the use of natural resources.
        Later he was the director of the Haynes Foundation and of the Ford Foundation's Resources for the Future program. He was also a consultant to towns, cities and regions in New England, California and Oregon.
        From 1955 to 1966 he taught at Harvard as the Charles Eliot professor of landscape architecture. The post was named for his uncle, who had worked with Frederick Law Olmsted, the father of America's national parks.
        Mr. Eliot was born in Cambridge and earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Harvard. His grandfather, Charles William Eliot, was Harvard's president for 40 years and oversaw its expansion from a college to university.
        Mr. Eliot's wife of 50 years, the former Regina Dodge, died in 1979. His survivors include three sons, Charles W. 3d, of Rockland, Ill., John, of Silver Spring, Md., and Lawrence G., of Ipswich, Mass.; a daughter, Carolyn E. Hitchcock of Fort Washington, Pa.; a brother, Theodore L., of Belvedere, Calif.; a sister, Frances E. Fremont-Smith of Cambridge, 15 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      