
        Jerome A. Ambro, who helped change Congressional seniority rules and campaign financing as the leader of 82 freshmen members elected in the aftermath of the Watergate scandals, died on Thursday at a hospital in Falls Church, Va. He was 64 and lived in nearby Dumfries, Va.
        His death resulted from diabetes, his family said.
        Mr. Ambro was the chairman of the New Members Caucus elected to the House of Representatives in 1974. The group won a loosening of the seniority tradition for choosing committee chairmen and helped win changes on campaign contributions.
        A Democrat, he served three terms representing New York's Third District, which straddled the Nassau-Suffolk border on Long Island. Earlier he served four terms as Huntington's Town Supervisor and as a member of the Suffolk County Board of Supervisors. After leaving office, he was a consultant and lobbyist.
        In Congress he pressed for stricter rules against the dumping of toxic waste in Long Island Sound. Maverick Democrat
        He was chairman of the House Subcommittee on Natural Resources and the Environment. He helped stop the conversion of the Long Island Lighting Company's Northport power plant from oil to coal, saving money and preventing air pollution. He also helped win the preservation of wetlands in Massapequa, Federal aid for Republic airport and the selection of Brookhaven National Laboratory as the site of a high-energy reactor.
        As a local official, he pressed for the construction of the Paumanack Village housing project for the elderly and worked for one of the first municipal bans on the pesticide DDT.
        As a politician, he made significant inroads into longtime Republican strongholds and for a time was the only Democratic supervisor in Suffolk.
        He also had a reputation for being tart-tongued and a maverick in his own party. Frequently he was at odds with his county chairman, Dominic J. Baranello. Objecting to Bella S. Abzug's bid for the United States Senate in 1976, Mr. Ambro said that being on the same ballot would be like "running behind Mao Tse-tung."
        Mr. Ambro publicly criticized President Jimmy Carter, resisted his renomination and predicted his defeat in 1980. Mr. Carter's big loss to Ronald Reagan helped sweep Mr. Ambro out of office. He was beaten by Gregory Carman, a Republican.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Ambro graduated from New York University and served in the Army's military police. His marriage to Helen McCooey ended in divorce.
        His survivors include his second wife, the former Antoinette Salatto; two sons, David J., of Northport and Richard M., of Baiting Hollow, L.I.; a daughter, Cathleen DeRolf of Red Hook, N.Y.; his mother, Angela of Queens; four stepsons, John M. O'Brien of Fulda, Germany, J. J. Heeley of Greenbelt, Md., and Daniel P. O'Brien and William R. Heeley, both of Brooklyn.
      