
        Charles R. Egan, a gallery owner who fostered early Abstract Expressionism by exhibiting the works of Willem de Kooning, Isamu Noguchi and other major artists, died on March 1 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, his family said.
        In describing Mr. Egan's impact as a dealer during the 1940's, Irving Sandler, the art historian, said, "It was a small world, and Egan was one of the very few central people, like Peggy Guggenheim and Betty Parsons." He called Mr. Egan "a wonderful, wonderful character on the art scene who hung out with artists."
        The Charles Egan Gallery opened at 63 East 57th Street in about 1945, when Mr. Egan was in his mid-30's. A group show the next year included works by de Kooning, Joseph Stella, Mark Rothko, Joseph Albers, Paul Klee and Georges Braque. Among the other artists Mr. Egan began featuring were Noguchi, Reuben Nakian and Raoul Hague. Helped Establish de Kooning
        He gave de Kooning his first one-man show in 1948. Mr. Sandler wrote that because of the exhibition's success "de Kooning was established as a major Abstract Expressionist, second only to Pollock in reputation and soon to be the most influential artist of his generation."
        Although he dabbled in sketching, Mr. Egan had no formal art training and did not finish high school.
        A native of Philadelphia, Mr. Egan moved to New York in the late 1930's. For a few years he sold art at Wanamakers department store, then for J. B. Neumann, a dealer of classic modern art, before opening his gallery.
        In 1977 he lost a legal dispute over 305 works by Arnold Friedman, a little-known but critically praised artist. Mr. Friedman's widow had signed over the works for Mr. Egan to sell in return for 50 percent of the proceeds, but he had sold only one in 14 years. Lawyers for the artist's estate won the return of the remaining works, valued at several hundred thousand dollars.
        Mr. Egan, who was previously married and divorced, is survived by his wife of more than 40 years, the former Teresa MacNamara; three sons, Kevin Egan of Emerson, N.J., Robert Egan of Pittsburgh and Sean Wetterau of Portland, Me.; seven grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      