
        Earl Wrightson, a singer and actor who brought his deep baritone voice and imposing stage presence to dozens of musical comedies and concerts, and who had his own television variety shows in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday at his home in East Norwich, L.I. He was 77.
        The cause was heart failure, said his singing partner since 1951, Lois Hunt, who was also his companion.
        Born in Baltimore, the son of a Methodist minister, Mr. Wrightson left his vocal studies at a conservatory and moved to New York City to become a page for NBC for $15 a week, while studying with Robert Weede, the Metropolitan Opera baritone. Eventually he became a regular radio performer, singing on such series as "The Prudential Family Hour" and "The Coca-Cola Hour" with the orchestra conductor Andre Kostelanetz.
        For three years in the 1950's, he was the host of a CBS Sunday afternoon television show, "The American Musical Theater," for which he won an Emmy Award. He was also the host of "At Home," a 15-minute television program that preceded "Arthur Godfrey and His Friends." Mr. Wrightson also performed on "The Goodyear Review" with Paul Whiteman, and in shows presided over by Robert Q. Lewis, Jack Paar, Merv Griffin, Mike Douglas and Johnny Carson.  Most of the Top Musicals
        Mr. Wrightson starred on Broadway in 1945 in a musical version of the Edwin Justus Mayer play "Firebrand of Florence," with music by Kurt Weill and featuring Lotte Lenya. He also starred on tour and in summer theater, in "Camelot," "Kiss Me Kate," "Paint Your Wagon," "I Do! I Do!" "Man of La Mancha," "South Pacific," "Can-Can," "Silk Stockings," "Fiddler on the Roof," "Gigi," "A Little Night Music," "The Sound of Music" and other shows.
        In the 1960's Mr. Wrightson and Miss Hunt performed Broadway show tunes in concerts with symphony orchestras across the country, on stages that included Carnegie Hall's.
        Mr. Wrightson made a number of recordings, five of them with Miss Hunt, and was awarded the Handel Medallion by New York City in recognition of his artistic achievements.
        His last major singing role was in "The Sound of Music" with Miss Hunt (he played the Baron von Trapp; she played Countess Elsa Schraeder) in a 97-city, six-month tour; the show was presented at the Jones Beach Theater in Wantagh, L.I., in 1980.
        In addition to Miss Hunt, he is survived by his estranged wife, Alta Markey Wrightson, and a daughter, Wendy Oldham, both of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and a granddaughter.
      