
        Reuben Fine, one of this country's greatest chess geniuses, a psychologist and the author of many books about chess and psychology, died Friday night at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia that developed after a stroke, said his son, Benjamin.
        Like Bobby Fischer a few decades later, Dr. Fine gave up chess at the height of his powers. But at least Mr. Fischer, who retired in 1972 and recently made a comeback in an exhibition match in Yugoslavia, had proved his point by first winning the world championship. When Dr. Fine retired, after a tremendous victory at the AVRO tournament in the Netherlands in 1938, he became, and has remained, the great what-if of the chess world.
        Clearly he was the material of which world champions are made. He had beaten everybody in sight. He had even had a plus score against the mighty Alexander Alekhine, the champion at the time. Why, then, drop out of competitive play?
        In those days there was no money in chess. Dr. Fine had a family to support, and traveling around the world hustling for a few dollars, playing simultaneous exhibitions, writing chess books and annotating games for magazines was a precarious existence indeed. Then in 1939 came World War II, and for almost a decade international chess came to a halt. So Dr. Fine changed course, earning a doctorate in psychology from the University of Southern California in 1941 and setting up a successful practice as a lay analyst. Learned Moves at Age 8
        Dr. Fine was born in 1914, into a poor family from the East Bronx. He learned the chess moves from his uncle at age 8. Soon he was one of the most feared players at the Marshall and Manhattan chess clubs in New York City. He first came to national attention in 1932 at age 18, when he achieved a draw against Alekhine at an international tournament in Pasadena, Calif. Then he really started working.
        His idols were Wilhelm Steinitz and Emanuel Lasker, both former world champions. To Dr. Fine, Lasker was "the supreme tactical genius," while Steinitz was "the master of consistency." He studied the styles of all past and contemporary players.
        Referring to the chess geniuses Jose Raoul Capablanca, Akiba Rubinstein and Aron Nimzovich, Dr. Fine wrote of his own eclectic style: "From other masters I try to learn as well, of course. From Capablanca I try to absorb the virtue of simplicity; from Alekhine the speedy way to win a won game; from Rubinstein the supreme art of end-game play; from Nimzovich, how to be unorthodox." He went on, "My chief objective was always precision, wherever that would take me."
        After graduating from City College in 1932, he decided to be a professional chess player. First he was a member of the United States team that competed in Europe. In 1935 he made his first international tournament appearance, in Hastings, England. He came in first, without losing a game.
        The next year he played in a tournament in Nottingham, England. Three former world champions and the best of the new generation participated. Alekhine and Capablanca, two chess immortals, shared first place. Dr. Fine and Samuel Reshevsky (the other player who dominated American chess for many years) shared second. Then Dr. Fine went on to win or tie for first at Amsterdam and Zandvoort in the Netherlands, at Margate, England, and in Moscow and Leningrad. In all, he came in first at 8 of the 13 international competitions in which he participated, tied for second in most of the others and was ranked among the six strongest players in the world. Won U.S. Open Seven Times
        His greatest professional moment came in 1938, at the AVRO tournament (AVRO was a Dutch radio station that sponsored the event). The tournament was set up to determine who would play Alekhine for the world championship. The participants, besides Dr. Fine, were Alekhine, Reshevsky, the Russian-born Czech player Salo Flohr, the Estonian star Paul Keres, and the former world champions Max Euwe from the Netherlands and Capablanca from Cuba. It was considered the strongest tournament ever assembled. Dr. Fine and Keres shared first place, although Keres was awarded sole first on a tie-break system.
        An oddity of Dr. Fine's career was that he never became the United States champion. Several times he had the championship in his grasp, only to lose crucial games. At these tournaments, Reshevsky seemed always to have his number. On the other hand, Dr. Fine won United States Open tournaments seven times between 1932 and 1941.
        He was the finest speed player in the United States and also a skillful blindfold player, one who plays without seeing a board. In those days, speed chess -- often called "rapid transit," or "rapids" -- was played at 10 seconds a move. Dr. Fine won almost every rapid tournament he entered. He once took on four strong players simultaneously in a rapids blindfold exhibition. With his back to the boards, and the moves relayed to him he won all four games. Of the Freudian School
        As a psychologist, Dr. Fine was a Freudian. He wrote fairly extensively on the psychology of chess. To him, chess was a combination of homosexual and hostile elements. The King on the chess board, he wrote, is "indispensable, all-important, irreplaceable, yet weak and requiring protection." The Queen, he went on, "of course, is the woman-figure. . . . The chess board as a whole may symbolize the family situation." Dr. Fine went on to discuss the phallic symbolism of chess and concluded that the game is an outlet for hostile feelings in which a player sees his opponent's King as his own absent or weak father and tries to kill him by checkmate.
        Among his psychoanalytic books are "The History of Psychoanalysis," "The Meaning of Love in Human Experience," "Narcissism: The Self and Society" and "The Forgotten Man: Understanding the Male Psyche."
        He wrote many chess books, in clear and lively prose, some of it highly anecdotal. His large study, "Basic Chess Endings" (1941) is still considered a classic. He also wrote "The Ideas Behind the Openings" and "The Middle Game in Chess" (1952), and he brilliantly revised the seventh edition of "Modern Chess Openings."
        He was previously married and divorced four times.
        Besides his son, of Stamford, Conn., he is survived by his wife, Marcia; a daughter, Ellyn Fine Halpert of Manhattan, and a stepson, Harry De Mell of Roslyn Harbor, L.I.
        Services will be held today at 11 A.M. at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street in Manhattan.
      