
        Evan R. Collins, who transformed a small teachers college into a major university as the founding president of the State University of New York at Albany, died on Friday at his home in Marblehead, Mass. He was 81.
        The cause of death was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        When Dr. Collins took over as president of the New York State College for Teachers in 1949, it had 1,500 students at its old complex in downtown Albany. He was 37 at the time, one of the nation's youngest college presidents.
        Twenty years later when he left, the institution had blossomed into a full-scale university with 10,000 students, post-graduate degree programs, research programs and a 525-acre suburban campus with 23-story dormitories. Expanded Curriculum
        The university's curriculum broadened beyond the education of teachers to encompass a college of arts and sciences and schools of business, criminal justice, library science, nursing, social welfare and public affairs. The university also opened an atmospheric science research center.
        Considered a progressive and a mediator, Dr. Collins ran an open forum every Monday afternoon to take questions and criticisms from students. He reformed the school's Senate to add student representation, and he encouraged cooperation between the students, faculty and administration.
        In 1950 he opened a center to study the causes and alleviation of tensions between community groups. Years later he averted the threatened takeover of a building by agreeing to student demands for a black studies program, which he said he had already planned to set up.
        At a time when many other campuses were disrupted by antiwar protests and other disputes, Albany remained calm during his tenure.
        Dr. Collins was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Newton, Mass. After graduating from Dartmouth College, he earned his master's and doctoral degrees in education at Harvard.
        After teaching five years at Tabor Academy, he became an instructor and the placement director at Harvard for a year, then was assistant dean of its Graduate School of Education for seven years. Next he served three years as the dean of the College of Education at Ohio University. After leaving Albany, he taught for several years at Boston College.
        He was a past president of the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education. He also served on the boards of the American Council on Education, Institute for College and University Administrators, Inter-Collegiate Association, Amateur Athletes of America, New York State Student Christian Movement, State Association of Crippled Children and Adults and Russell Sage College.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 58 years, the former Virginia Lillard; a son, Evan Jr. of Phoenix; a daughter, Marta Cahn of Syracuse; a sister, Joan Runyon of Tiburon, Calif.; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      