
        Dr. Polykarp Kusch, winner of a Nobel Prize in physics for his contributions to knowledge of the atom, died Saturday at his home in Dallas. He was 82.
        He had suffered a series of strokes and had been ill for several months, his family said.
        Dr. Kusch was a longtime educator, serving on the faculty of Columbia University for 30 years, where in 1969 and 1970 he was vice president and dean of faculties. From 1970 to 1971 he was the university's provost and executive vice president for academic affairs.
        After leaving Columbia in 1971, he became Regental Professor of physics at the University of Texas at Dallas, where he taught for 10 years before his retirement in 1982.
        Dr. Kusch is best known for determining the magnetic moment of the electron, for which he shared a Nobel Prize with another physicist at Columbia, Dr. William E. Lamb, in 1955. Working on separate but closely related projects, the two scientists laid the basis for a branch of physics called quantum electrodynamics, in which electromagnetic phenomena are explained in terms of quantum theory. Experiments Described
        In his landmark experiments to determine the magnetic moment of the electron -- one of the electron's most important physical properties -- Dr. Kusch worked closely with another leading Columbia physicist, Dr. Henry M. Foley. In the apparatus the two scientists used, beams of hydrogen atoms were shot through a magnetic field at an array of detectors. The degree to which the atoms were deflected by the field allowed the scientists to calculate the magnetic role played by each hydrogen atom's lone electron.
        Dr. Robert Novick, a professor of physics at Columbia and a longtime friend of Dr. Kusch, described the work as "absolutely fundamental to understanding the atom."
        Dr. Kusch was born in Germany on Jan. 26, 1911. His father was a Lutheran missionary. After emigrating to the United States, he received a bachelor of science degree from the Case School of Applied Science, now Case Western Reserve University, in 1931. Continuing his studies in physics at the University of Illinois, he received a Ph.D. degree in 1936.
        Dr. Kusch taught at the University of Illinois and the University of Minnesota for a few years, but with the outbreak of World War II he joined the Radiation Laboratory of the National Defense Research Committee, working on high-frequency oscillators -- devices important for radar and other military applications. From 1944 to 1946 he worked on vacuum tubes and microwave generators at Bell Telephone Laboratories, now A.T.&T. Bell Laboratories. Taught 'Physics for Poets'
        In 1946 Dr. Kusch joined Columbia's physics department, becoming a full professor in 1949 and later serving for two terms as chairman of the department. Widely admired by his students, he was awarded their Great Teacher Award in 1959.
        He was also chosen to teach an introductory physics course for non-science majors; the course was informally known as "physics for poets." Another Nobel laureate in physics who also taught the course at Columbia, Dr. Leon M. Lederman, described the course as one of the most challenging teaching assignments in his career.
        Dr. Kusch was the author of many scientific papers and was awarded eight honorary degrees. He also was a frequent commentator on international affairs and campaigned for the freedom of Soviet Jews to emigrate.
        Dr. Kusch is survived by his wife, Betty, five daughters, a sister and two grandsons.
      