
        John Hersey, the novelist and journalist whose "A Bell for Adano" won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1945 and whose nonfiction work "Hiroshima" awakened Americans to the horrors of atomic warfare, died yesterday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 78.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his family.
        In the course of his five decades as a writer, Mr. Hersey emerged not only as a first-rate reporter but also as a storyteller who nurtured the idea that writers had to pursue a moral goal. He involved himself deeply in the issues of his day.  Speaking Out on War and Writing
        In public appearances and in work on special committees, he never hesitated to speak out on such issues as the Vietnam War, which he strongly opposed; on problems in American education, and on issues central to the craft of writing, including censorship, government intimidation of writers, copyright protection and fair taxation for those who create the nation's literature. He was a tireless worker for both the Authors League of America and the Authors Guild.
        Mr. Hersey sent his latest manuscript to his publisher, Alfred A. Knopf, just six weeks ago, said Judith Jones, his editor at Knopf for the last 20 years. Entitled "Key West Tales," it consists of short stories, set in the past and present, about people and events in his hometown. The book is to be published in the winter of 1994, Ms. Jones said.
        From the beginning of his career, Mr. Hersey won praise for the directness of his style, his eye for detail and his ability to get to the heart of any situation. But most critics suggested that his past as a journalist somehow showed in his novels and that his fiction was not developed as deeply as it might have been.
        This kind of criticism was heard even after the publication of "A Bell for Adano," in 1944, Mr. Hersey's acclaimed novel about events that occurred in Licata, a small town in Sicily that was ravaged by World War II. The book used some experiences of Maj. Frank E. Toscani, the American Army officer who became Licata's military governor and learned from townspeople that their most pressing need was the return of their bell.
        The centerpiece of their community, the bell, had been taken down by the enemy and melted for the war effort against the Allies. Major Toscani became very much a part of the town's lore when he somehow succeeded in securing another bell from a Navy destroyer. Over Dinner, Settling a Suit
        In the book, which became a best seller, Licata became Adano and Major Toscani became Major Joppolo. Mr. Hersey had the fictional major have an affair with an Italian woman. Major Toscani promptly sued Mr. Hersey for libel, stating that the book seemed so true to so much of what happened that many people mistakenly thought that the amorous adventure was true, too. The lawsuit was finally settled amicably over dinner in New York at a restaurant named after the novel.
        The novel got excellent reviews, although Diana Trilling, who reviewed it for The Nation and who basically liked it, wrote that Mr. Hersey's ideas, "like his prose, have undergone a process of conscious falsifying and purposeful simplification." Even so, "A Bell for Adano" won a Pulitzer Prize. In 1945, it also became a successful motion picture, starring John Hodiak in the role of Major Joppolo. Taking On Hiroshima
        Mr. Hersey's next big project was "Hiroshima," a major work of nonfiction that traces the lives of six people who survived the atomic bombing of Japan in 1945. It was written as a three-part series for The New Yorker, but the magazine's editors, Harold Ross and William Shawn, instead decided to print it in full on Aug. 31, 1946, allowing it to consume nearly all the editorial space in the issue.
        The New York Times ran an editorial calling attention to the piece, and Lewis Gannett, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, called "Hiroshima" "the best reporting" of the war and Time magazine praised its restraint. Albert Einstein was said to have ordered a thousand copies for distribution and a great many newspapers clamored to serialize it. Mr. Hersey allowed this, provided that they made contributions to the American Red Cross, rather than pay him.
        The piece was developed into a book, published by Alfred A. Knopf.
        Similar praise came in 1950 with publication of "The Wall," Mr. Hersey's novel about events in the Warsaw ghetto from November 1939, with the German occupation, to May 1943, when the last houses in the ghetto were razed. "The Wall" won the Daroff Memorial Fiction Award of the Jewish Book Council of America and the Sidney Hillman Foundation Award. It was dramatized by Millard Lampell, produced at the Billy Rose Theater in New York in the early 1960's and filmed for television by CBS in 1982. Speaking Chinese Before English
        John Richard Hersey was born on June 17, 1914, in Tientsin, China. His father, Roscoe, worked for the Young Men's Christian Association there; his mother, the former Grace Baird, was a missionary. John, who spent most of his first 10 years in China, spoke Chinese before he spoke English. His life was eventful: at one point, he took a two-year trip around the world with his mother. But in later years he said he could recall very little of his childhood and described it as "no more exciting than the average child's."
        In 1924, the family moved to Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., in Westchester County. After attending public schools there, John Hersey was enrolled in the private Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., which he attended from 1927 to his graduation in 1932. After that came Yale, from which he graduated in 1936, and then Clare College, Cambridge. By the time his college days were over, he was determined to become a journalist.
        Returning to the United States in May 1937, he learned that Sinclair Lewis needed a private secretary. Mr. Hersey thus became Mr. Lewis's summertime factotum, copying pages of a play that Lewis was writing about Communism. Mr. Hersey later recalled that he worked intensively with Lewis without ever realizing that his employer had a serious drinking problem. A Criticism of Time Magazine
        Later in 1937, he was hired by Time magazine. "Time seemed to me to be the liveliest enterprise of its type and I wanted more than anything to be connected with it," he later said. He talked the editors into hiring him by submitting to them an essay in which he told them what he thought was wrong with the magazine.
        In 1939, Time sent Mr. Hersey to the Far East, where he covered the initial stages of World War II. His first book, "Men on Bataan," was produced in 1942, and the next year he wrote "Into the Valley," a novel about a skirmish on Guadalcanal. John Chamberlin, reviewing it for The New York Times, said the book gave evidence that Mr. Hersey was "a new Hemingway." Moreover, Mr. Hersey was commended by the Secretary of the Navy for his role in helping to remove wounded men from Guadalcanal.
        During the years immediately after the war, as he developed his novelistic skills in such books as "The Marmot Drive" (1953), "A Single Pebble" (1956) and "The War Lover" (1959), Mr. Hersey also kept alive his interests in things that had nothing to do with his books. He joined a number of local and national educational organizations and became master of Pierson College at Yale University in 1965, holding the post for five years. Killing of 3 Men
        In the 1960's Mr. Hersey became an early opponent of American involvement in the Vietnam War, and in 1965 he was a sponsor of a March on Washington for Peace in Vietnam. He was no less concerned with racism in America and in 1968 wrote "The Algiers Motel Incident," which described the killing of three black men in a Detroit motel.
        Mr. Hersey became involved in a literary uproar in 1976 when an article he wrote for The Saturday Review was pulled by the magazine's editor, Norman Cousins. The article condemned the influence wielded by certain large corporations, and Mr. Cousins reportedly felt it was not upbeat enough.
        Mr. Hersey married Frances Ann Cannon in 1940. They were divorced in 1958 and Mr. Hersey married Barbara Day Addams Kaufman that year.
        He is survived by his wife; their daughter, Brook Hersey of Manhattan; three sons by his first marriage, Martin, of Eastampton, N.J., John Jr., of Millbrook, N.Y., and Baird, of Willow, N.Y.; another daughter, Ann Hersey of Cambridge, Mass.; a brother, Arthur, of Annapolis, Md., and six grandchildren.
      