
        Art Hodes, a two-fisted traditionalist blues and jazz pianist, died on Thursday at Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey, Ill. He was 88 and lived in Park Forest, Ill.
        His wife, Jan, said he had undergone vascular surgery on Monday.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1981, John S. Wilson called Mr. Hodes "a living summation of a great jazz tradition." He played in the blues style of musicians like James P. Johnson, Earl Hines and Jelly Roll Morton. His was an orchestral approach: a rock-steady left hand pumped out chords below glittering right-hand filigrees, while he stomped both feet. "I was always a 'swing' man," Mr. Hodes wrote in 1988. "But I could also play it pretty."
        Mr. Hodes was born in Nikolayev, Russia, and was brought to the United States by his parents when he was six months old. He never knew his exact birth date, but thought he had been born in November 1904. While growing up in Chicago, he studied piano at Jane Addams's Hull House and heard the pioneering New Orleans musicians who came to Chicago in the 1920's: Louis Armstrong, King Oliver, Hines and Jimmy Noone. Along with fellow Chicagoans who included Benny Goodman and Gene Krupa, Mr. Hodes adopted the New Orleans style. But Mr. Hodes steeped himself in the blues, and he cited the singing of Bessie Smith as a major inspiration.  Moved to New York
        In the 1930's, Mr. Hodes moved to New York City, where he performed frequently in the clubs on West 52d Street, then a jazz mecca. He became the host of a jazz radio program on WNYC in the 1940's, for which he played records, presented live groups and performed on the piano himself. For five years in the 1940's, he edited a monthly magazine, The Jazz Record, and ran a jazz record label. But postwar styles like be-bop split the jazz audience, and players who stayed with older styles found themselves struggling.
        In 1950, Mr. Hodes moved back to Chicago. He continued to perform around the United States and internationally, and as jazz rediscovered traditionalism in the 1980's, Mr. Hodes's star rose again, with engagements at clubs like Hanratty's and and what was then called the Kool Jazz Festival. He continued to perform regularly until late 1991, when multiple strokes made it impossible for him to continue.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Janet Gordley, Karen Sullivan and Margaret Figueroa; two sons, Daniel R. Hodes and Robert W. Hodes, 12 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      