
        Rodney C. Gott, the retired chairman of the A.M.F. company, died on Thursday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y., at the age of 81. He resided in nearby Bedford.
        The cause of death was multiple myeloma, his family said.
        In his 32 years at American Machine and Foundry, Mr. Gott served as president, starting in 1962, and chairman and chief executive, from 1968. He retired in 1978.
        The company, originally a manufacturer of tobacco industry equipment, became a major conglomerate making products as diverse as bowling alley pin-setting machines and nuclear equipment. A.M.F. was split up in the 1980's.
        Mr. Gott sat on other corporate boards, including Black & Decker, Associated Dry Goods, American Brakeshoe, Bulova Watch, Avis, Jaguar Rover Triumph and Franklin Savings Bank of New York.
        In the Nixon Administration, he served on Federal advisory councils on pollution control, commerce and product safety. His other civic activities included five years as a Westchester County recreation commissioner and service on boards at the American Museum of Natural History, Briarcliff College, Westchester Council of the Arts and St. Matthew's Episcopal Church in Bedford.
        Mr. Gott was a native of Brooklyn. Rank of Colonel
        He graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1933 and served for two years in the Army Corps of Engineers. Then he worked for the American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corporation.
        In World War II he served in Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army and on the staff of Gen. Lesley James McNair, chief of ground forces, and was also commander of the 79th Infantry Division Artillery. He reached the rank of colonel, and his decorations included the Silver Star, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster and Purple Heart.
        He was married for 47 years to the former Lydia McAdams, who died in 1980.
        His survivors include his second wife, the former Phyllis Randolph Peabody; three sons, Peter, of Lakeville, Conn., Rodney Jr., of Topanga, Calif., and Alan, of Simi Valley, Calif.; two stepchildren, Cary Perry of Ipswich, Mass., and Gail Smith of Littleton, Mass., and eight grandchildren.
      