
        Italo Tajo, an Italian bass who specialized in comic roles and an influential teacher, died yesterday at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati. He was 77.
        His wife, Inelda, said the cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Tajo's career flourished from the late 1940's, when he began singing the central bass roles in European and American opera houses, until 1966, when he moved from Rome to Cincinnati to help start the opera department at the University of Cincinnati College Conservatory of Music. Among his students there were Kathleen Battle and Barbara Daniels.
        Yet even during the years when he devoted himself primarily to teaching voice, coaching and directing in Cincinnati, Mr. Tajo (pronounced TAH-yo) continued to appear regularly at the Metropolitan Opera, where his performances of Puccini character roles -- Benoit and Alcindoro in "La Boheme," the sacristan in "Tosca," Geronte in "Manon Lescaut" -- were highly regarded. He gave his last Met performance (in "Tosca") in April 1991.  A Debut in 'Rheingold'
        Mr. Tajo was born in Pinerolo, Italy, on April 25, 1915, and began his studies in Turin with Nilde Stinchi Bertozzi. He made his professional debut as Fafner in Wagner's "Rheingold" at the Teatro Regio in Milan in 1935, and in 1936 went to Glyndebourne as a chorister and an understudy in Mozart roles.
        His repertory included several contemporary works. He sang in the Italian premieres of Berg's "Wozzeck" in 1942, Walton's "Troilus and Cressida" in 1956 and Shostakovich's "Nose" in 1964. He also created roles in works by several composers, including Luigi Nono and Luciano Berio.
        But it was in the standard Romantic repertory that he did most of his work, and he made his name playing a combination of serious and comic roles -- Banquo, Ramfis, Figaro, Don Pasquale and Dulcamara -- in the 1940's. He gave his first American performances in Chicago and San Francisco, and he made his Metropolitan Opera debut as Don Basilio in "Il Barbiere di Siviglia" in December 1948.
        Mr. Tajo made several recordings, including Mozart's "Marriage of Figaro" with a Glyndebourne cast in the mid-1930's and La Scala recordings of Verdi's "Macbeth" and Giordano's "Andrea Chenier."
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Cecilia Benedett of San Francisco.
      