
        Billy Eckstine, an influential band leader and a suave bass-baritone whose full-throated, sugary approach to popular songs inspired singers like Joe Williams, Arthur Prysock and Lou Rawls, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 78.
        Dawn Bridges, a spokeswoman for Mercury Records, said that he had a stroke last year.
        In his heyday in the 1950's, Mr. Eckstine, whom disk jockeys nicknamed Mr. B., was a singer in the old tradition, given to the grand manner. A popular entertainer in nightclubs and concert halls, he was also a major recording star. A generation of listeners flocked to buy his versions of ballads like "Everything I Have Is Yours," "I Apologize" and "My Foolish Heart." Other hit records included "Caravan," "Blue Moon" and "Body and Soul."
        In the late 1930's and early 40's, Mr. Eckstine sang with Earl (Fatha) Hines's band, and also learned to play trumpet. "Jelly, Jelly," a blues hit he recorded with Hines, remained one of his big numbers from the early days. He also made critically praised recordings of "Skylark" and "Stormy Monday Blues" while with the band. First Performance at 11
        Born in Pittsburgh on July 8, 1914, William Clarence Eckstine was the youngest of three children of William and Charlotte Eckstine. His father was a chauffeur who brought a piano home one day because he thought he saw musical talent in one of his two daughters. But the girls showed no interest in music. Young Billy, in contrast, started singing when he was very young and by the time he was 11 gave a performance at a church bazaar, even though at that point his primary interest was sports, especially football.
        The family moved around, and Mr. Eckstine went to high school in Washington, then attended the St. Paul Normal and Industrial School in Lawrenceville, Va., where his major was physical education. He also studied at Howard University in Washington for a time.
        In 1933, Mr. Eckstine won a $10 first prize in an amateur show at the Howard Theater in Washington. A year or so later, Mr. Hines heard him sing and eventually hired him.
        He stayed with the Hines band until 1943, then began working as a soloist in various New York City nightclubs, among them the Club Zanzibar. That venture went sour after the city imposed a 20 percent cabaret tax and club owners stopped offering entertainment. Hired Top-Notch Musicians
        Mr. Eckstine formed his own band in 1944, luring some of his musicians away from Hines. He hired Sarah Vaughan as his vocalist and put together a band that at one time or another boasted in its ranks Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie, Miles Davis, Fats Navarro, Dexter Gordon, Gene Ammons and Art Blakey. The music they played was the newly minted be-bop. When Mr. Eckstine, also a trombonist, was asked how he ever managed to pull so many first-rate musicians together, he replied that it was easy because "we were all hanging out together."
        Years later, jazz buffs called the band "legendary," but Mr. Eckstine would tell admirers that he and the musicians had been "starving."
        At one point the movies beckoned: Mr. Eckstine was offered a part in "Till the Clouds Roll By," an M-G-M film made in 1946. He refused the offer because his band was not included. The band's existence, like that of other such groups, proved financially precarious; it broke up in 1947, and Mr. Eckstine returned to full-time singing. Bobby Tucker, whom Mr. Eckstine first met when Mr. Tucker was working for Billie Holiday, would serve as his accompanist for several decades. Outdrew Frank Sinatra
        Mr. Eckstine started to record after the band broke up, and his reputation grew through the late 1940's. There was no single big hit that established him, but rather a series of songs that people liked, among them "Fools Rush In" and "Everything I Have Is Yours." By 1949, M-G-M Records listed him as one of its most popular singers. In 1950, when he appeared at the Paramount Theater in New York City, he drew more fans than Frank Sinatra had done.
        That fall, he made a well-received cross-country tour with the George Shearing Quintet that was repeated a year later. He also appeared in concert with the Count Basie band. Mr. Eckstine helped Basie reorganize his band years later, after the big bands had declined in popularity.
        Although Mr. Eckstine drifted into singing almost accidentally, he became quite serious about his voice and said he greatly admired Ezio Pinza, the opera bass who starred on Broadway in "South Pacific" and "Fanny." At one point, Mr. Eckstine considered interrupting his career to study singing formally, after which he thought he might try to establish himself in classical or semiclassical music. Continued Performing
        Although his popularity as a recording artist declined, he remained active in nightclub work and was a frequent visitor to New York City, where he performed in various clubs.
        Among the movies in which he appeared were "Skirts Ahoy" (1952) and "Let's Do It Again (1975).
        Mr. Eckstine's two marriages ended in divorce. He had seven children, all with his second wife, the former Carolle Drake, to whom he was married from 1953 to 1977.
        He is survived by his children: Ed, the president of Mercury Records; Guy, the director of artists and repertory for Verve Records; Billy Jr.; Ronnie; Kenny; Gina, and Charlotte Carolle.
      