
        Wilbur Daniels, a former top officer of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union and a civic leader, died yesterday at home in Manhattan at the age of 70.
        The cause was a heart ailment, his family said.
        Mr. Daniels served the union for 44 years, starting as a researcher fresh out of college at the age of 19. Originally trained in economics, he shifted to the union's legal staff after earning a law degree in night classes at New York University. He was the assistant to the union's president, David Dubinsky, and became a vice president in 1969 and executive vice president in 1973.
        His work included negotiating major contracts, revising the union constitution, developing programs for immigrant members, lobbying to protect American jobs and handling other legal and legislative duties. Organized Ad Campaign
        The "look for the union label" commercial, with a chorus of union members singing the jingle, was a project he helped organize. In 1981 he opposed new government rules allowing manufacturing at home, saying: "Lifting this ban simply will bring the sweatshop back into the home. It's something we thought we got rid of 40 years ago."
        Mr. Daniels was the chairman of the State Advisory Council on Employment and Unemployment Insurance and was the vice chairman of the State Job Development Authority. He was also a former executive director of the National Board of the Coat and Suit Industry.
        Since leaving the union in 1987 he worked as the executive director of the S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer Foundation, which promotes the arts and Jewish life and education.
        He was the Metropolitan Opera's executive committee chairman and was also instrumental in finding the Roundabout Theater a new home in a former union auditorium. He also served on the boards of the Lincoln Center, United Housing Foundation, New York Urban Coalition and American Arbitration Association.
        Born in Detroit, Mr. Daniels grew up in New York City.
        His survivors include his wife of 29 years, the former Patricia Heyman; a daughter, Ann, of Oakland, Calif., and a granddaughter.
      