
        Eugenie Leontovich, an actress, playwright, director and teacher who created memorable roles on Broadway in "Grand Hotel," "Twentieth Century" and "Anastasia," died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 93.
        The cause was cardiac arrest and pneumonia, said Dr. Joseph Klager, a doctor at the nursing home.
        Miss Leontovich was born in Moscow on March 21, 1900. Before the Revolution, she was a member of the Moscow Art Theater and studied under several legendary teachers, including Meyerhold. Her father, a military officer, fought with the White Army, as did her three brothers, who were subsequently captured, tortured and killed by the Bolsheviks.  A Hecht-MacArthur Star
        A passionate anti-Communist, Miss Leontovich made her way to Paris after the Revolution and, in 1922, to the United States. She won favorable notices in 1930 on Broadway as Grusinskaya, the dancer, in "Grand Hotel." "She has the dignity, the pleading sincerity of an artist -- all nerves and pride," wrote Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times.
        In 1932 she played Lilly Garland in Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur's comedy "Twentieth Century." Her first appearance on the London stage was in 1935, as the Archduchess in "Tovarich," opposite Sir Cedric Hardwicke.
        With Elena Miramova she wrote "Dark Eyes," about three female Russian refugees trying to survive in New York. Produced by Jed Harris, the play opened on Broadway in 1943 and ran for 230 performances.
        Miss Leontovich also created the role of the Dowager Empress in the 1954 Broadway production of "Anastasia," which starred Viveca Lindfors. She played the Queen in William Saroyan's "Cave Dwellers" in 1957, and Mme. Kuprin in "A Call on Kuprin" in 1961. In 1972, she did her own adaptation of Tolstoy's "Anna Karenina" Off Broadway; she titled it "Anna K." and both directed and starred in it.
        Miss Leontovich, whose students addressed her and referred to her as "Madame," lived in a Manhattan apartment surrounded by family pictures and icons. Lithe, with an erect carriage that made her look taller than her 5 feet, she spoke in heavily accented English and favored dramatic speech. When asked about her traditional outfit of black trousers, black sweater and black scarf, she would respond, "I'm in mourning for my life." The line was from Chekhov's "Sea Gull."  Two Marriages
        Miss Leontovich's two marriages ended in divorce. According to her official biography, her first husband, Paul A. Sokolov, was a member of the Russian nobility. Her second husband was the actor, producer and director Gregory Ratoff. "We met in Moscow, we were married in 1923, and that was the last of my legal marriages," she said of Mr. Ratoff in an interview in 1972. "He left me for a Georgian woman from Russia. She was beautiful. He left me our house in California, half of his money, and they went off to Italy."
        Miss Leontovich also acted in films and television. Her best-known movie is perhaps "The Rains of Ranchipur," a 1955 remake of "The Rains Came" (1939), with Richard Burton and Lana Turner.
        For seven years in the 1960's Miss Leontovich was an artist in residence at the Goodman Theater in Chicago. She also taught acting in California and New York.
      