
        Carroll Cloar, a Realist painter whose 1966 painting of children holding an American flag was reproduced on a poster commemorating President Clinton's inauguration, died on Saturday at his home in Memphis. He was 80.
        He had cancer for several years and died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said his wife, Patricia Sandstead Cloar.
        Mr. Cloar was born on his family's farm near Earle, Ark., on Jan. 18, 1913, and throughout his life he used images of rural America in his work, sometimes portraying events from his own life, including the death of a childhood friend in a fall from a tree. He studied at Southwestern College in Memphis (now known as Rhodes College) and the Memphis Academy of Art before coming to New York in the late 1930's, where he attended the Art Students League. He won an Edward MacDowell Scholarship at the league in 1940 and a Guggenheim fellowship in 1946. Realism, Surrealistically
        In World War II, he served in the Army Air Forces and spent most of the next 10 years traveling around the world, returning in Memphis in 1955.
        Mr. Cloar's Realism was sometimes compared to Edward Hopper's, sometimes to Ben Shahn's and it also had a distinct Surrealist slant. He made his New York debut in a group show at the gallery of Edith Gregor Halpert in the late 1940's and exhibited regularly in the city, at the Alan Gallery in the 1950's and 60's and at the Forum Gallery in the 70's and 80's.
        His most recent New York exhibition was at the Schmidt-Bingham Gallery in 1989. In 1991, a retrospective of his work was held at Memphis State University. His work is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two stepdaughters, Eve Harrington of Memphis and Ann Harrington Miller of Auburndale, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      