
        Woodrow Swancutt, a retired major general in the Air Force who was a decorated World War II pilot and later flew the plane that dropped a test atomic bomb on Bikini Atoll, died on March 21 while walking near his at home in San Antonio. He was 77.
        He collapsed from cardiac failure, his family said.
        The Bikini detonation on July 1, 1946, was the fourth atomic explosion in history. But it was the first to be publicized in advance and subjected to careful scientific measurement.
        The secret Manhattan Project executed a hurried experimental explosion of the first atomic bomb in the New Mexico desert on July 16, 1945. Later that year, the second bomb was dropped on Hiroshima on Aug. 6, and the third was dropped on Nagasaki on Aug. 9. 49 Combat Missions
        In the war, Gen. Swancutt flew 49 combat missions in the China-Burma-India theater. He was among the pilots in the first daylight air attack on Japan and was also chosen to fly Lord Mountbatten, the Allied Supreme Commander of Southeast Asia, to a conference in Washington.
        His war service won him the Distinguished Service Medal, Presidential Unit Award, Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf cluster, Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster and Air Medal with oak leaf cluster.
        Later he was a wing commander at Lockbourne Air Force Base, deputy director of operations and plans at the Strategic Air Command headquarters, division commander at Turner Air Force Base and director of operations at Air Force headquarters.
        After retiring from the military in 1968, he became executive vice president of Executive Jet Aviation in Columbus, Ohio. Champion Boxer
        General Swancutt was born in Edgar, Wis., and attended the University of Wisconsin.
        He was the National College Athletic Association's champion boxer in the 155-pound class in 1939 and was the only boxer to retain his title in 1940. That same year he interrupted his premedical studies to enlist in the Army Air Corps.
        His marriage to the former Kathleen Haza ended in divorce. His survivors include a son, Woodrow Jr., of Grayslake, Ill.; two daughters, McKenzie Croft of Santa Fe, N.M., and Carolyn Grant of Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Vernon, of La Crosse, Wis., eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      