
        Dr. John McLean Morris, a leading gynecologic researcher who discovered the "morning after" birth-control pill and made important contributions to cancer treatment, died on Thursday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 78.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        For 35 years Dr. Morris was a professor and chief of gynecology at Yale University School of Medicine and Yale-New Haven Medical Center and twice was the school's acting chairman of obstetrics and gynecology.
        He was also a practicing surgeon, an author and a leader in medical societies and population-control efforts. He officially retired six years ago but remained active in his field. Grew Up in China
        His career in medicine, women's health and birth control stemmed from the human misery he witnessed while growing up in China, where his father was a Presbyterian missionary.
        Decades later in an interview, Dr. Morris recalled people stepping over the bodies of the dead and dying in the streets. He also spoke of widespread infanticide of baby girls. "Unwanted female infants were disposed of by throwing them through a small hole in one of the dozens of stone huts erected for the purpose around the countryside," he said.
        Dr. Morris established his scientific reputation in his late 30's by identifying a rare sexual disorder, testicular feminization.
        That condition, also called Morris's Syndrome, causes people born with normal male chromosomes to develop as females because of an insensitivity to testosterone. The discovery gave insight into normal as well as abnormal sexual development. The Morning-After Pill
        His best known achievement was the morning-after pill, developed in the 1960's with Dr. Gertrude Van Wagenen in experiments on monkeys. The pill's estrogen compounds prevent a fertilized egg's implantation in the womb if the pill is used within three days of conception. The pill was hailed as breakthrough as the first method of birth-control, other than abortion, for use after intercourse.
        Europe readily adopted this new use of estrogen, a hormone already available in other medications. But no pharmaceutical company sought to license, publicize or market estrogen as a morning-after pill in the United States. The pill's use has largely been limited to college students in this country.
        In 1982 the French developed RU-486, whose progesterone-blocking action expels a fertilized egg even several weeks after conception.
        Dr. Morris also designed new versions of the intrauterine contraceptive device.
        A proponent of population control, he said in 1970, "Doctors and medical institutions must take the initiative in crash programs of population control now if we are to offer future generations a future."
        In disease treatment, Dr. Morris developed new techniques in pelvic surgery and was an early advocate in the United States of radiation therapy for cancer. In the early 1950's he studied radiation therapy in Stockholm, then joined Yale in 1952, where he created a radiation center.
        He served as president of the Society of Pelvic Surgeons, vice president of the American Gynecological and Obstetrical Society, a medical adviser to Planned Parenthood and the World Health Organization and president of the New Haven chapter of the American Cancer Society. Princeton and Harvard
        Dr. Morris was born in Kuling, China. His father, DuBois, was pastor of Central Presbyterian Church in Manhattan as well as a missionary. Although the Communist Revolution disrupted Dr. Morris's ties to China, he resumed them as chairman of the Yale-China Medical Committee.
        After graduating from Princeton in 1936, Dr. Morris earned a medical degree at Harvard in 1940. In World War II he served for four years as a lieutenant commander in the Navy's medical corps in the Pacific.
        Surviving are his wife of 42 years, the former Marjorie Austin; four daughters, Marjorie Cave of St. Charles, Ill., Christina Raymond of Manhattan, Constance Jarowey of Newton, Mass., and Virginia Plumb of Sag Harbor, L.I.; a son, Robert, of Milwaukee; two sisters, Elizabeth Bair of Manhattan and Eleanor Morrison of Edinburgh, Scotland; a brother, DuBois, of Westport, Conn., and nine grandchildren.
      