
        Hugh E. Rodham, the father of Hillary Rodham Clinton, died here Wednesday night, nearly three weeks after suffering a stroke. He was 82.
        President Clinton, Mrs. Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea, returned to Little Rock today for a private memorial service on Friday. The President cleared all but a morning visit to the Pentagon from today's schedule and canceled his weekly radio address, set for Saturday.
        Mr. Rodham, the former owner of a textile business, was stricken on March 19 and was taken to St. Vincent Infirmary Medical Center, where he died at 8:35 P.M. Mrs. Clinton spent the first 16 days of her father's hospitalization at his bedside. On Sunday she returned to Washington, where her task force was working on a plan to reshape the nation's health care system.
        The funeral, which will also be private, will be held Saturday in Scranton, Pa., where Mr. Rodham grew up and will be buried. Appreciation of Prayers
        Upon his arrival the President, who brought a handful of his closest aides, and the family went directly to the Rodham home.
        "The Rodham family wishes to extend its heartfelt appreciation to the many prayers offered, and the many expressions of concern received from Arkansas and throughout the world," said a statement from the White House.
        Mr. Rodham and his wife, the former Dorothy Howell, whom he married in 1942, lived here since 1987 to be close to their daughter and her family. He was a conservative Republican who moved to Chicago in the Depression and operated a small business, making curtains for hotels and offices, for more than a quarter-century before retiring in 1970. The Rodhams moved from Chicago, where Mrs. Clinton was born in 1947, to a suburb, Park Ridge, in 1950.
        Family friends described Mr. Rodham as a gruff but proud and devoted father who raised a close-knit family. Emphasis on Learning
        Mrs. Clinton's biographer, Judith Warner, wrote in "Hillary Clinton: the Inside Story" (Signet, 1993) that Mr. and Mrs. Rodham "worked hard to instill the sense in Hillary and her two brothers, Hugh and Tony, that the biggest responsibility of their young lives was to be sure they got the best education possible. 'Learning for learning's sake,' her mother said. 'Learning for earning's sake,' her father joked."
        Mrs. Clinton, the Rodhams' eldest child, once told an interviewer: "My father would come home and say, 'You did well, but could you do better? It's hard out there.' Encouragement was tempered with realism."
        Mr. Rodham's father emigrated from England as a child and worked at a lace company in Scranton. Mr. Rodham, studying on a football scholarship, graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1935 with a degree in physical education. During World War II, Mr. Rodham was a basic training instructor in the Navy.
        Mr. Rodham's illness forced Mrs. Clinton to delay submitting her task force's recommendations on health care by the May 1 deadline set by the White House. While in Little Rock, friends said, Mrs. Clinton devoted most of her time and energy to her vigil and had limited communications with her aides. Thoughts on Life and Death
        In an unusually reflective speech at the University of Texas in Austin on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton did not mention her father by name but sought to share some of her ordeal. Speaking without notes, Mrs. Clinton said that high technology had forced people to grapple with new questions about prolonging life. "When does life start?" she asked rhetorically. "When does life end? Who makes those decisions? How do we dare to impinge upon these areas of such delicate, difficult questions? And yet, every day in hospitals and homes and hospices, all over this country, people are struggling with those very profound issues.
        "These are not issues that we have guidebooks about," she continued. "They are issues that we have to summon up what we believe is morally and ethically and spiritually correct and do the best we can with God's guidance. How do we create a system that gets rid of the micromanagement, the regulation and the bureaucracy, and substitutes instead human caring, concern and love? And that is our real challenge in redesigning a health care system."
        Mr. Rodham had been in frail health in recent years. When he went to a baseball game with Mr. Clinton in July 1992, he walked slowly and with a cane. Late last year, he made a cameo appearance on the television comedy "Hearts Afire," which is produced by Harry and Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, friends of the Clintons.
        Skip Rutherford, a longtime family friend, said that during the vigil he chatted with Mrs. Clinton about family matters, but never about the decisions awaiting her about health care. "What I saw was a daughter who cares deeply about her dad," he said.
        Besides his wife and daughter, Mr. Rodham's survivors include their two sons, who both live in the Miami area. Hugh Rodham Jr. is an assistant public defender in Dade County, and Tony Rodham is a private investigator.
      