
        Guido Carli, for decades Italy's foremost economic leader and an influential figure in international finance, died in Spoleto on Friday. He was 79.
        Official news reports said he died on the way to the hospital after a heart attack.
        Mr. Carli guided his country's economic recovery after Italy's in World War II, and became a cornerstone of stability for revolving-door governments. Twice he was credited with rescuing the nation from financial ruin. A Strong Leader
        His leadership continued in recent years as Western European nations linked their economies and the Soviet bloc disintegrated. Mr. Carli sometimes outspokenly criticized the United States for a failure of leadership, as he did when oil prices soared in the 1970's. But he also defended the United States when other Europeans tried to limit American investment as a threat to their autonomy.
        Mr. Carli, who was born in Brescia and educated at the University of Padua, was the son of an economics professor. A friend of the family (who later became Pope Paul VI) won Mr. Carli a job at a state holding company. There he interned under two men who later headed Banca d'Italia, the central bank, and he succeeded them in that post.
        In 1944, at the age of 30, he represented Italy at the Bretton Woods Conference, which planned post-war reconstruction by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. He joined the I.M.F. managing board in 1947. Two Rescue Operations
        During his term as governor of the central bank, from 1960 to 1975, Mr. Carli exercised strong influence on the Treasury Ministry, on Government planning, on the budget and on the stock market. When Italy's economy faltered in 1964, he was credited with reviving it through emergency actions, including a mission to Washington that netted $1.2 billion in aid.
        A decade later, he defied pessimistic experts by arranging a similar rescue of the economy through budgetary austerity, a reduction in inflation and an expansion of foreign trade, a package he called shock treatment.
        In 1983 Mr. Carli, a Christian Democrat, was elected to the Senate. He served as Treasury Minister from 1989 until last year. Since then he worked as a consultant.
        Mr. Carli is survived by a son, Andrea.
      