
        Robert E. Lee, who helped to mold national telecommunications policy as the longest-serving member of the Federal Communications Commission, died Monday at a hospital in Arlington, Va., his hometown. He was 81.
        He died of liver cancer, an F.C.C. spokesman said.
        In his nearly 29 years on the commission, Mr. Lee was the leading proponent of ultrahigh-frequency television, or UHF, and was also instrumental in the selection of the RCA Corporation's system for introducing color broadcasting. Largely at his insistence, Congress in 1964 required that all new television sets be equipped to receive UHF.
        Mr. Lee was also an advocate of educational television, pay or subscription television and of expanding FM radio, whose popularity he predicted would surpass that of AM radio. He represented the United States at international conferences on telecommunications, on issues ranging from maritime radio to space satellites. A McCarthy Associate
        Mr. Lee, a Republican who was a close associate of former Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin, was first appointed to the F.C.C. by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953 and reappointed by Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan. He served as chairman for his last six months on the commission before retiring in 1981.
        He started his career in public service as an agent at the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1939, and became a principal fiscal aide to its Director, J. Edgar Hoover. In 1947 Mr. Lee moved to the House Appropriations Committee and became its investigations director, supervising inquiries into the loyalty of Government workers.
        There were allegations that at least some names on McCarthy's list of people suspected of being subversives were furnished by Mr. Lee's staff.
        That history and Mr. Lee's lack of experience in telecommunications drew criticism when he was nominated to the F.C.C., but he was confirmed. Consultant on Communications
        After leaving the commission, he became president of the Broadcast Pioneers Education Fund and a consultant to Fletcher, Heald & Hildreth, a communications law firm.
        He served on many boards of broadcasting organizations and was chairman of the World Administrative Telephone and Telegraph Conference. He also was a patron of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, a member of the Cardinal's Committee to the Laity in Washington and a founder of the Catholic Apostolate of Mass Media.
        Mr. Lee, who was born in Chicago to Irish immigrants, graduated from DePaul University in Chicago and then worked as an accountant in hotels and property management.
        His first wife, the former Rose Bente, died. He is survived by his second wife, the former Wilma Rector; a daughter, Patricia Fisher of Yorktown, Va.; two sons, Robert E. and Michael B., both of Washington; a brother, Edward, of Chicago, 18 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 9, 1993, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Robert E. Lee, a former member of the Federal Communications Commission, misidentified his surviving wife. She is the former Rose Bente. The former Wilma Rector was his late first wife.
      