
        Andre Oliver, Pierre Cardin's main assistant for more than 40 years, died at the Laennec Hospital in Paris on Thursday. He was 61 and lived in Paris.
        His friends said he died of AIDS.
        Born in Toulouse, he attended the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris and joined Cardin in 1952 after serving in the French Army. He worked on the designer's first men's-wear collection, which was a big success in Europe and this country.
        In the early 1960's, he and Mr. Cardin showed men's clothes based on the Edwardian look and caused a major revolution in the style of men's clothes in England and the United States. Later, it influenced the Japanese and is still a factor in avant-garde designs. Ready-to-Wear Too
        From the beginning, he worked on the couture collection as well, later adding ready-to-wear that was sold widely in the United States. For years he stepped on stage along with Mr. Cardin to acknowledge the applause at the end of a show, a rare case of an assistant receiving public acknowledgment.
        While Mr. Cardin's great skill was tailoring, Mr. Oliver developed a facility for soft, fluid clothes. He was responsible for many of the evening dresses worn by Claude Pompidou, the wife of the late President of France; Bernadette Chirac, and other fans. He also was a popular host, entertaining prominent social figures like Lady Grace Dudley, Marie-Helene de Rothschild and Gianni Agnelli at dinner at his home on the Rue du Cherche-Midi. Backed Store
        In the 1980's, Mr. Oliver ran a men's shop that bore his name on East 57th Street in Manhattan. In addition to tailored clothes, the show was known for its Shetland and cashmere sweaters in up to 35 colors.
        It was backed by Mr. Cardin, who thought his long-time associate should have a business of his own, and Danny Zarem, who had introduced Cardin's men's clothes to Bonwit Teller when he was a vice president at that store. Among the big successes of the 1960's was a navy blue blazer with gold buttons that became as ubiquitous as Gucci loafers among status-conscious men.
        Mr. Oliver's survivors include a mother, a sister, a niece and a nephew, all of Paris.
      