
        Ludwig Jesselson, a philanthropist and retired commodity trading executive who was chairman of the board of trustees of Yeshiva University, died Saturday at Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem. He was 82 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
        Sam Hartstein, the university's director of public relations, said he died after suffering a heart attack in an apartment he maintained in Jerusalem, where he had gone for Passover.
        Mr. Jesselson was the longtime chairman and chief executive officer of Philipp Brothers, a Manhattan-based commodity-trading company.
        In early 1980, not long before Mr. Jesselson's retirement, Philipp Brothers was one of the world's largest marketers of raw materials, bartering more than 150 basic commodities, including steel, crude oil and cement. It was then a division of Englehard Minerals and Chemicals Corporation. Helped Finance Museum
        After stepping down from the Philipp Brothers posts, Mr. Jesselson remained for some years a director of Englehard Minerals and Chemicals and of its successive descendents, Phibro Corporation, Phibro-Salomon and Salomon Inc.
        Mr. Jesselson became chairman of Yeshiva's board in 1989 after serving as a trustee since 1961. He and his wife of more than 40 years, the former Erica Pappenheim, helped the university pay for the construction of its museum, for the museum's operating expenses, and for many of the museum's acquisitions.
        In 1987, Mr. and Mrs. Jesselson gave the museum a letter written in 1818 by Thomas Jefferson in which the former President condemned prejudice toward Jews and all racial intolerance. Mr. Jesselson, a collector of Judaica and Hebraica, bought the letter in 1986 at Sotheby's in Manhattan for $396,000, which was the highest price paid at auction for any letter or any Presidential document.
        In his honor, Salomon Inc. established the Ludwig Jesselson Chair in Economics at Yeshiva University in 1986. Philanthropic Activities
        Mr. Jesselson's philanthropic and volunteer activities included fund-raising for the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of Greater New York and serving as a director of the Riverdale Jewish Center. In addition, he contributed to many nonprofit organizations and activities in Israel and financed several archeological excavations there. He was the retired chairman of the Global Board of Trustees of Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, east of Tel Aviv.
        At his death, he was also chairman of the board of the American committee of Shaare Zedek Medical Center, having retired earlier as chairman of its international board.
        Morris Talansky, the medical center's executive vice chairman, said yesterday that Mr. and Mrs. Jesselson had provided the money for much of its construction and for the operating expenses of several of its departments.
        Over the years, Mr. Jesselson received many honors for his philanthropy, including the Kesher Shem Tov Award of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America.
        He was born in southwestern Germany, in the small community of Neckarbischofsheim in what became the state of Baden-Wurttemberg. He went on to attend school in Heidelberg before entering the commodities-trading world as a teen-age apprentice trader in a Berlin company.
        Mr. Jesselson emigrated to the United States in 1937. He joined Philipp Brothers in 1938, became one of its prime movers by 1950 and was named its chief executive officer and chairman in the early 1960's.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Jesselson is survived by three sons, Michael and Daniel, both of Manhattan, and Benjamin, of Jerusalem; 13 grandchildren, and a brother, Sigmund Jeselsohn, of Zurich.
      