
        Lord Zuckerman, the British scientist and counselor to Churchill and other prime ministers on issues ranging from World War II bombing strategy to industrial pollution to "Star Wars" space weapons, died yesterday in London. He was 88.
        He had a heart attack, his family said.
        Lord Zuckerman, a professor and author, once described his life as "a continuous tutorial." He became perhaps the best known and most powerful of the "boffins," a British expression for scientific experts.
        Solly Zuckerman was born in Cape Town on May 30, 1904, and began his studies as a medical student. He later specialized in animal anatomy and did pioneering work on primate behavior, inspired by his youthful observations of baboons in South Africa.  How to Avoid Boredom
        For Lord Zuckerman's services to Britain, he was knighted in 1956, then elevated to life peerage in 1971. But both as Sir Solly and as Lord Zuckerman, he professed modesty. "I was not interested in doing good," he said once. "I was interested in not being bored."
        A scientific visionary, he offered theories about birth-control pills long before they were invented and predicted human organ transplants, which he called "spare-part surgery."
        Lord Zuckerman established his academic reputation at 28 with his landmark first book, "The Social Life of Monkeys and Apes" (Routledge, 1931). He followed with "Functional Affinities of Man, Monkeys and Apes" (Harcourt, 1933) and did prescient work on hormone theory as the field of endocrinology developed.
        When Nazi Germany threatened Britain, Lord Zuckerman switched his analytic talents from the study of life to what he called "the macabre but fascinating science of destruction."
        His first military study was on how shock waves from bombs affect the body. In an early experiment, he constructed wooden figures shaped like people, which became known as zuckermen. From Baboons to Bombs
        Soon he emerged as a major contributor to military research and strategy, becoming the scientific adviser to the Royal Air Force and the Allied forces in the Mediterranean.
        His most significant wartime achievement was persuading military authorities -- over Churchill's strong opposition -- to cease the saturation bombing of German cities and factories and instead mount tactical strikes against railways and bridges.
        After the war, Lord Zuckerman used his charm and political skills as well as his scientific prowess to expand his expertise and influence on policy, serving as a consultant and member of panels on subjects from agriculture to fuel and energy, from natural resources to disarmament, from the environment to mining to education. Adviser at Arms Talks
        In 1960 he became chief scientific adviser to the Ministry of Defense, where he worked closely with the Lord Mountbatten and took part in talks aimed at banning nuclear tests.
        Prime Minister Harold Wilson named Lord Zuckerman the chief scientific adviser to the Government in 1966, and in 1967 he supervised the clean-up of the oil that fouled the Cornwall coast when the Torrey Canyon ran aground.
        After his formal retirement in 1971, he continued as an unofficial adviser.
        Despite his military ties, Lord Zuckerman was an outspoken critic of what he saw as the perilous folly of building nuclear stockpiles in the name of international security. In 1961 he gave top NATO officials pause with a grim lecture on the futile devastation that could be caused by tactical nuclear weapons.
        Lord Zuckerman had diverse interests beyond science and technology and was especially fond of the arts. He counted among his friends Alfred Hitchcock, E. E. Cummings and George and Ira Gershwin, Dashiell Hammett and Thornton Wilder.
        His devotion to animals led him to take charge of the London Zoological Society and make major improvements in its financing and its zoo. Sometimes he bolted from exasperating Government meetings and went to the zoo to watch the baboons. Better Animals Than People
        "There were animals all around me in South Africa," he said in 1974. "I did a lot of mountain climbing, and one was always running into these wild creatures. One got to know what they were like, as opposed to using them as objects of studies. I wasn't very interested in people."
        Over the years he studied monkeys, apes, reptiles, rats, giraffes, camels and marmosets.
        After graduating from the University of Cape Town in 1923, he was an instructor there for two years, then went to University College in London the next seven years to earn doctorates in science and medicine.
        After a year at Yale on a Rockefeller fellowship, he joined Oxford's faculty. In later years he taught at the Universities of Birmingham and East Anglia.
        His survivors include his wife of 54 years, Lady Jane Rufus Isaacs, and a son, Paul.  How an Expert Avoided Boredom
        Lord Zuckerman's books reflect the breadth of his work.
        The Social Life of Monkeys and Apes
        (Routledge, 1931)
        Functional Affinities of Man, Monkeys and Apes
        (Harcourt, 1933)
        Science in War
        (1940)
        A New System of Anatomy
        (Oxford, 1961)
        The Ovary
        (Academic, 1962)
        Scientists and War
        (1966)
        The Image of Technology
        (Oxford, 1967)
        Medicine and Tomorrow's Community
        (Glasgow University, 1969)
        Beyond the Ivory Tower: Functions of Public and Private Science
        (Weidenfield, 1970)
        From Apes to Warlords
        (1978)
        Great Zoos of the World
        (1980)
        Nuclear Illusion and Reality
        (1982)
        Star Wars in a Nuclear World
        (1986)
      