
        Oliver R. Tambo, leader of the African National Congress for decades when it was banned and he was in exile, died early today from a stroke, the congress said in Johannesburg. He was 75 years old.
        In 1967 Mr. Tambo, a bespectacled, self-effacing man, became the leader of the largest South African organization opposed to apartheid and white minority rule and Africa's oldest national liberation movement. He suffered a previous stroke four years ago in Sweden.
        Mr. Tambo fled into exile in 1960 when the African National Congress was banned by the South African Government. He directed the congress's activities in exile, pressing for sanctions against South Africa and helping set up a guerrilla organization in neighboring black states.
        He returned to South Africa as president of the congress in December 1990, following its legalization. Because the stroke in 1989 left him debilitated, Mr. Tambo was replaced as president in 1991 by Nelson Mandela, the symbolic leader of the congress who was released by the Government in February 1990 after 27 years in prison.
        The two men had been partners in South Africa's first black law firm. The congress created the post of national chairman for the ailing activist.
        Mr. Tambo is the second black South African leader to die in two weeks. Chris Hani, the 50-year-old leader of the South African Communist Party and the most popular militant leader in the African National Congress, was shot and killed on the driveway of his home in Johannesburg on April 10. Rioting Followed Hani's Death
        The killing of Mr. Hani, a hero among black township youths, set South Africa on edge, as rioting broke out on a day of national mourning and seven more people were killed. Rallies turned into rampages of looting and burning in several cities, and threatened to delay elections that may install a democratic government by next year.
        Mr. Tambo was born on Oct. 27, 1917, to peasant farmers who were members of the Pondo tribe in the Transkei village of Bizania, outside Johannesburg. He spent what he later called a politically-sheltered childhood, attending Anglican and Methodist msision shools and riding in a tribal chief's equestrian group. He won a scholarship to Fort Hare University, where he studied science and education and received a bachelor's degree in 1941.
        It was during his college years that he became politically active. After an attack on a black woman dining-hall employee by a white male student went unpunished, Mr. Tambo led a student protest against the incident. He remained at the university for graduate work, but was expelled in 1942 after he led a large student protest against arbitrary restrictions on the use of a campus tennis court.
        In 1944 Mr. Tambo founded the Youth League of the African National Congress with Mr. Mandela, a fellow student at Fort Hare, and several colleagues at St. Peter's, his high school alma mater which hired him as a teacher after he was expelled. The league was generally disenchanted with the cautious approach of the parent organization toward seeking the overthrow of white minority rule, and urged more direct action.  Plan of Action Drawn Up
        In 1952, a "Programme of Action" drawn up by the youth league, including strikes, boycotts and general defiance of apartheid laws, was adopted by the congress and launched with a massive campaign in the streets. Membership in the congress soared from 7,000 to over 100,000.
        Mr. Tambo and Mr. Mandela also battled apartheid in the country's judicial system, opening their law firm in Johannesburg despite demands from officials that they relocate in a black township.
        In 1956, the two were arrested and charged with treason. They were tried nearly two years later, and found not guilty in 1960.
        The shift from a nonviolent, civil-disobedience approach came the same year, when police opened fire on a demonstration in Sharpeville, killing 69 people and wounding 181 others. At that point, Mr. Tambo said later, he "knew that non-violence had become meaningless." The African National Congress was banned two days later, and its members went underground and began organizing a military wing called "Umkhonto we Sizwe," or "Spear of the Nation."
        In 1962, after a series of attacks on government buildings believed to symbolize apartheid, Mr. Mandela was arrested, tried and sentenced to life in prison. Mr. Tambo, after failing to win support from the United States for the congress, obtained an agreement in 1963 with the Soviet Union to supply arms.  Make Townships 'Ungovernbable'
        By 1981, attacks on police stations, pass-records offices and oil refineries were occurring on an average of one every 53 hours. In 1985 radio broadcasts from Lusaka, Mr. Tambo urged black South Africans to make their townships "ungovernable."
        Mr. Tambo periodically defended the group's tactics by arguing that the apartheid Government he was fighting had engaged in far worse kinds of terrorism in its effort to preserve its power. In a 1982 interview, he said: "We are called terrorists. After 70 years, what would anybody do if the response had been murder, torture, life imprisonment? Who is a terrorist? Is it not the person who has been persecuting human beings simply because they are black?"
        Mr. Tambo traveled constantly on behalf of the congress, meeting with corporate leaders to urge that they withdraw their operations in South Africa. He also organized scholarship programs to train young members of the congress abroad.
        By 1986, the congress seen by the West as influential enough in South Africa -- despite Government claims that its agents had infiltrated and undermined the organization -- that Mr. Tambo traveled to London for talks with the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, and the United States assistant Secretary of State for African affairs, Chester H. Crocker. The following year, Mr. Tambo met with Secretary of State George Schultz, while conservatives protested outside the building, to press for complete economic and political sanctions against the South African Government.
        Mr. Tambo is survived by his wife, Adelaide, whom he married in 1956, and three children.
      