
        Alan Kulwicki, the Wisconsin-born racing driver who won the 1992 Nascar championship, was killed Thursday night along with three other men aboard a private plane that crashed while attempting to land at the Tri-County Airport near Bristol, Tenn. He was 38 and had been scheduled to compete in the Food City 500 in Bristol tomorrow.
        There was no immediate explanation for the crash, which also claimed the lives of three employees of Hooters of America, the regional restaurant chain that sponsored Kulwicki's campaign. They were identified by the Atlanta-based company as Mark Brooks, 26, the company's sports marketing manager and the son of its chairman, Robert H. Brooks; Dan Duncan, 44, the director of sports management, and Charlie Campbell, 48, the corporate pilot.
        Kulwicki was Joe College in a good old boys' sport, but a decade and a half after he left the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee with a degree in mechanical engineering, he proved he belonged among the best. A Racing Background
        Last Nov. 15 in the final race of the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing season, the Hooters 500 at the Atlanta Motor Speedway, Kulwicki was 30 points out of first place in the yearlong standing. He did not win the stock-car race, but finished high enough to take the overall championship in the $1 million Winston Cup.
        Kulwicki was the first owner-driver to win the title since the legendary Richard Petty did it in 1979, and he was the first college graduate and the first driver born north of the Mason-Dixon line to win a Nascar championship.
        He may not have grown up in a tradition of midnight moonshine runs and dusty rural tracks, but Kulwicki, who was born in the Milwaukee suburb of Greenfield, was born to race. His father, Gerald, was a noted builder of race-car engines, and Kulwicki, who grew up with a fascination for engines, began his racing career on Go Kart tracks at the age of 13. No Financial Backing
        After graduation, he worked for two years as an engineer but continued racing, first as a hobby and later as a professional on the short tracks in the Midwest.
        Then in 1985, pursuing a lifelong dream, he moved to Charlotte, N.C., and joined the Nascar circuit. With no outside financial backing, he scraped by with a single car and a two-man crew. In 1986, he was named Nascar rookie of the year in 1986 and was offered a lucrative contract to drive for the famous Junior Johnson team. But Kulwicki, a meticulous pefectionist who was always his own chief engineer and chief mechanic, decided to continue alone.
        There followed many bleak seasons, some with a sponsor and some without, but by the time he signed with Hooters in 1991 he was recognized as one of the top drivers on the circuit.
        Last Nov. 15, after proving he was as good as the best, Kulwicki the outsider broke with another Winston Cup tradition by spinning his car around and taking his victory lap the wrong way around the track.
        Kulwicki is survived by his father.
      