
        Msgr. John Maria Oesterreicher, who spent a lifetime nurturing understanding between Roman Catholics and Jews, died on Sunday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 89 and lived near the campus of Seton Hall University in South Orange.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said the university, where he was Distinguished University Professor and Scholar in Residence. He also was the director of Seton Hall's Institute of Judeo-Christian Studies, which he founded in 1953.
        Monsignor Oestereicher last appeared in public March 21 to observe the institute's 40th birthday. Last year he marked the 65th anniversary of his ordination.
        He was a consultor to the Secretariat for Promotion of Christian Unity in Rome from 1961 to 1968. He contributed the chapter on Catholicism's bond to the Jewish people in the declaration "Nostra Aetate," which was a result of Pope John XXIII's Second Vatican Council. He also advised the Secretariat for Catholic-Jewish Relations of the National Conference of Bishops. Born Into Jewish Faith
        Monsignor Oesterreicher was born into the Jewish faith in Stadt Liebau, Moravia, then part of Austria, and started medical school at the University of Vienna. As a boy he had read the Gospels and was deeply moved by the story of Jesus. But it was as a medical student that the writings of John Henry Cardinal Newman, the English theologian, convinced him to convert and enter the priesthood.
        He was ordained in Vienna in 1927 and became a parish priest the following year. The rise of the Hitler regime in Berlin in 1933 prompted him to found an institute and a journal to denounce Nazi persecution of Jews and the anti-Christian heresy he saw in Hitlerite racism.
        With the Anschluss in 1938, he fled to Paris and condemned the Nazis in weekly broadcasts and writings, some of which were published in New York by Maison Francaise in 1943. To New York Via Spain
        He himself reached New York late in 1940 via Spain, taught himself English and became a parish priest again. His first book in English, "Walls Are Crumbling: Seven Jewish Philosophers Discover Christ," was published in the early 1950's and has been reissued since.
        His more recent works included "The New Encounter Between Christians and Jews" and "The Unfinished Dialogue: Martin Buber and the Christian Way," both published in 1986 by Philosophical Library.
        In 1953, Monsignor Oesterreicher came to Seton Hall where, aided by other churchmen, he founded his institute. Its purpose was to research and publish on matters of concern to both faiths and to focus thought on the Church's roots in ancient Israel.
        It was in that context that he came to the attention of the Vatican and wrote the chapter of "Nostra Aetate," issued in 1965 -- three decades after he started writing about the subject. He was appointed a Papal Chamberlain with the title of Monsignor in 1961.
      