
        Dr. Theodore Cooper, a scientist and former senior Government official who headed the Upjohn Company, died yesterday at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville where he was being treated for bone marrow cancer. He was 64 years old.
        He was chairman and chief executive of Upjohn, one of the country's largest pharmaceutical companies, since 1987. Upjohn, based in Kalamazoo, Mich., named Ley S. Smith, acting chief executive last week after Dr. Cooper entered an intensive care unit for treatment of a lung infection and respiratory failure. He had received intermittent treatment since the cancer was diagnosed in January.
        Dr. Cooper, a heart surgeon who published more than 200 scientific articles and papers, was Assistant Secretary of Health in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in the Ford Administration after having served as director of the National Heart and Lung Institute at the National Institutes of Health. In his Government posts and as the head of scientific advisory panels, he was involved in shaping Government policies on heart disease, nutrition and AIDS.
        He had formal responsibility for the controversial Federal swine flu vaccination program in 1976, which was halted because of concern that the shots may have been linked to cases of paralysis. Earlier he headed a study of medical technology during the Nixon Administration. The group recommended giving the Food and Drug Administration expanded authority to supervise medical devices.  Increased Research
        Dr. Cooper also headed a panel of experts appointed by the National Academy of Sciences in 1988, which sharply criticized "the absence of Federal leadership" in combating the AIDS epidemic. The group accused the Reagan Administration of failing to act to contain the spread of drug-related AIDS cases.
        President Reagan had offered Dr. Cooper a Cabinet position as Secretary of Education in 1980 but he declined, saying that he had just begun running Upjohn.
        He increased the company's research budget and dealt with criticism of Halcion, a widely prescribed sleeping medication, which lost much of its following after reports of dangerous side effects. Recently he guided Upjohn through restructuring to reduce jobs as Halcion and other company products were losing patent proection.
        Dr. Cooper, a native of Trenton, was a member of the Upjohn board of directors since 1974. He was also a director of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Kellogg Company, Borden Inc., Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago and Bronson Healthcare Group Inc.  Cornell Medical College Dean
        Before joining Upjohn in 1980, Dr. Cooper was dean of Cornell Medical College and provost for medical affairs of Cornell University. In 1978 he received an Albert Lasker Award in medicine for his part in organizing the National High Blood Pressure Education program while at the National Heart and Lung Institute.
        He had been professor of surgery at St. Louis University, where he received his medical degree in 1954 and a Ph.D. in physiology in 1956. He was a 1949 graduate of Georgetown University. He was chairman of pharmacology and professor of surgery at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine before going to the Heart and Lung Institute in 1968.
        He became Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health in 1974 and Assistant Secretary from 1975 to the end of the Ford Administration in 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, Vivian; two sons, Michael and Frank, and two daughters, Mary and Victoria.
      