
        President Turgut Ozal of Turkey, who was combative, pugnacious and provocative to the last, died in his Ankara home yesterday. He was 66 years old.
        Officials said the cause of death was heart failure and suggested that it might have been hastened by a grueling 12-day tour of Central Asia that ended two days earlier.
        The five-country tour was designed to show support for neighboring Azerbaijan, which is ethnically close to Turkey, in its conflict with Armenia.
        Mr. Ozal had undergone triple-bypass heart surgery in the United States in 1987 and survived an assassination attempt a year later. He had been free of known heart problems since then.
        Reporters traveling with him in Central Asia said he had seemed very fatigued. Joined Anti-Iraq Coalition
        A squat, bespectacled and irascible figure, President Ozal left a deep mark on Turkey's modern history.
        In 1990, he showed no hesitation in committing his predominantly Muslim country, a member of the NATO alliance, to the United States-led coalition against Iraq in the Persian Gulf war. That was crucial to the coalition's planning because it meant the severing of Iraq's principle oil-export routes, which remain closed by United Nations sanctions, and gave allied warplanes access to tactically important air bases.
        In a statement yesterday, President Clinton said: "On behalf of all Americans, Mrs. Clinton and I extend our heartfelt sympathies to the people of Turkey and to the family and friends of President Ozal. President Ozal devoted his life to public service, and Turkey is a stronger country because of his dedicated and visionary leadership."
        At home, many Turks remembered Mr. Ozal as the leader who thrust his land into an export-led drive toward free enterprise that revolutionized its moribund economy and turned the 1980's into free-wheeling boom years as the nation emerged in 1983 from three years of military rule.
        Mr. Ozal's career betrayed a liking for power played out in devil-may-care style on the stage of international renown. But at home, his political life displayed other attributes. He engaged publicly in what seemed petty personal vendettas.
        In his later years, his provocative comments often seemed deliberately at odds with official policy. And he was often accused of permitting his family to misuse his office to lead lives of lavish ostentation. Was World Bank Economist
        Mr. Ozal was born in the central Anatolian town of Malatya. His father was a bank clerk and his mother a schoolteacher. He studied electrical engineering at Istanbul Technical University and joined the World Bank as an economist. Suleyman Demirel, Turkey's most durable political survivor and current prime minister, appointed him head of the State Planning Office in the 1970's.
        His political career took shape during Turkey's period of military rule, from Mr. Demirel's overthrow in 1980 to the return of civilian rule in 1983.
        His Motherland Party was one of the few the army allowed to operate, and Mr. Ozal became Prime Minister from 1983 to 1989. By then, the high inflationary cost of the 1980's boom and complaints about the autocratic behavior of Mr. Ozal and his family had weakened his public following.
        Sensing his party's imminent political decline, he had himself elected President, a post traditionally above politics, so as to be able to retain high office after his party's 1991 election defeat by Mr. Demirel and his allies. Running Battle With Demirel
        From then on, Mr. Ozal fought a running battle with Mr. Demirel, the one-time patron whose political rehabilitation he had opposed in the 1980's.
        Such was Mr. Ozal's objection to the apolitical nature of the presidency that he once spent most of an hourlong interview with a reporter reading aloud clauses from the Constitution permitting presidential political intervention.
        Those interventions were often controversial.
        Claiming some Kurdish ancestry, he spoke out far more openly for limited rights for Turkey's large and restive Kurdish minority than did Mr. Demirel or most other mainstream politicians.
        He also seemed to delight in abandoning Ankara's cautious diplomacy to champion the cause of Turkey's Muslim allies in regional disputes from the Caucasus to the Balkans. 'Turkey Must Show Its Teeth'
        "Turkey must show its teeth to Armenia," he said two weeks ago in discussing the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. "What harm would it do if a few bombs were dropped on the Armenian side by Turkish troops holding maneuvers on the border?"
        His five-nation Central Asian tour itself seemed a display of his refusal to play only ceremonial roles.
        According to a medical report issued in Ankara yesterday, Mr. Ozal suffered blood pressure fluctuations overnight, and doctors implanted a pacemaker in the early hours of the day. By the time he arrived at Hacettepe University Hospital in Ankara in the early afternoon, however, he had no pulse and his breathing had stopped. Efforts to revive him failed.
        Mr. Ozal is survived by his wife, Semra; two sons, Ahmet and Efe, and a daughter, Zeynep.
        Under Turkish law, the Speaker of Parliament, Husamettin Cindoruk, will be acting President until Parliament elects a successor within 30 days. The new president needs the support of two-thirds of the 450 legislators.
      