
        Andrew Goodman, the owner of Bergdorf Goodman who greatly expanded its stature as one of Fifth Avenue's most elegant and lucrative fashion stores in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Saturday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 86.
        He had a long illness, a family spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Goodman continued as chairman of Bergdorf Goodman's executive committee but withdrew from its internal operations after selling control in 1972. He remained the landlord of the store, at 754 Fifth Avenue between 57th and 58th Streets, and kept a penthouse apartment atop the classically styled marble and sandstone building.
        Although identified with Bergdorf Goodman his entire life, Mr. Goodman had other business interests and was active in philanthropic and civic causes. Among them he was a past chairman of the Fifth Avenue Association and the Better Business Bureau of New York and was executive director of the United Jewish Appeal. Affluent, Royal Customers
        Over the years, Bergdorf Goodman's reputation drew affluent customers from across the nation and around the world. In 1971, for example, Mr. Goodman played host to the King and Queen of Sikkim at a buffet and fashion show.
        His father, Edwin, founded the company. Originally a merchant in Lockport, N.Y., he moved to New York City at the turn of the century as an apprentice to Herman Bergdorf, a women's tailor with a shop on Fifth Avenue near 19th Street. Soon the elder Mr. Goodman became a partner, then bought out Mr. Bergdorf but kept his name, and moved the store uptown, to an upstairs location on Fifth near 57th Street.
        The shop branched out as a furrier as well as dressmaker and flourished.
        At first Andrew Goodman did not display a keen interest in the family business. After he spent a lackluster year and a half at the University of Michigan, his father sent him to Paris in 1926 as an apprentice in the major fashion house of Jean Patou. After a year, Mr. Goodman returned and dutifully joined his father's staff.
        About that time, the father made a bold departure. Instead of subjecting customers to tedious fitting sessions, he decided to offer ready-made high fashion off the rack. The approach was phenomenally successful, and by 1928 annual sales reached $5 million.
        Needing more space, in 1928 Bergdorf Goodman then moved across the street, into a new building it constructed on the former site of the Cornelius Vanderbilt mansion. That store became the core of the present building.
        Its interior was designed and decorated to be like the wealthy customers' own homes, and often Edwin Goodman came out of his office to wait on his best clients.
        Except for two years as a lieutenant in the Navy in World War II, Andrew Goodman continued in the business. He became its president in 1951, and when his father died in 1953, inherited the ownership and became chairman.
        He also became chairman of 754 Fifth Ave., the store's real-estate side.
        Mr. Goodman started Bergdorf Goodman's next transformation, appealing to potential customers who felt intimidated by the store's haughty image.
        In 1955 he opened the Miss Bergdorf Shop with more moderately priced goods for what he called "people who have more taste than money and are on their way up." Soon customers in the popular shop gave up waiting for overcrowded dressing rooms and resorted to changing in telephone booths.
        The store began a $1 million expansion in 1959 into two adjacent buildings, enlarging the Boys and Girls gift shop into a whole floor and enlarging the beauty salon and bridal, fur and men's departments. A contemporary note was added in 1966 with Bigi, a mod shop with rock background music and splashy displays. A $2.5 million expansion in 1967 nearly doubled the store's area, to 120,000 square feet. The Last Independent
        By 1969 Bergdorf Goodman was the nation's only large high-quality specialty store that remained independently owned. But its decision not to build suburban branches left it with a relatively modest profit margin.
        Mr. Goodman sold the operation to Broadway-Hale Stores for $12.6 million in stock in that company, later known as Carter Hawley Hale. Bergdorf Goodman is now part of the General Cinema Corporation. He remained as president until 1975.
        Mr. Goodman was on the boards of Carter Hawley Hale, H. M. Rayne, Central Savings Bank, Manufacturers Hanover Trust and Guardian Life Insurance and was president of the Uptown Retail Guild.
        He also served on the New York City Public Development Corporation and the boards of the Fashion Institute of Technology, National Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine and Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. He was vice president of the American Jewish Committee.
        Surviving are his wife of 56 years, the former Nena Manach; a son, Edwin A. of Manhattan; three daughters, Mary Ann Quinson of Manhattan, Vivien Malloy of Waccabuc, N.Y., and Pamela Lichty of Honolulu; 13 grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      