
        Frank Arthur Vanderlip Jr., a New York investment banker and philanthropist, died on Friday at the John Douglas French Center for Alzheimer's disease in Los Alamitos, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Somers, N.Y., and on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Henrik N. Vanderlip, a nephew.
        Mr. Vanderlip was born in Scarborough, N.Y. His father was a financier, president of National City Bank of New York, now Citibank, and Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President William McKinley. He attended the Scarborough School, founded by his parents, and Phillips Exeter Academy, before graduating in economics and architecture from Harvard in 1930.
        Mr. Vanderlip became well known as a fund raiser and organizer of charity balls, for causes that included mental health and the fight against cancer. Active in Civic Affairs
        He was a past president of the Cancer Care volunteers for the National Cancer Foundation, and director and treasurer of the American Opera Society. Over the years he also served as a member of the executive council of the International Young Men's Christian Association, chairman of the Committee on Mental Health Needs of New York City, and a council member of the National Municipal League.
        He and his second wife, Dr. Neva Eileen McGrath, built the Beechwood Theater for the Scarborough School on the former family estate, Beechwood, in Scarborough.
        In World War II, he was commissioned into the Army and rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel while serving in Australia, New Zealand, Africa and Europe. His commendations included the Outstanding Civilian Service Medal of the Armed Forces and the French Legion of Honor.
        In business he headed family-controlled investment and real-estate concerns, like the Palos Verdes Corporation in southern California. He also held directorships in various corporations.
        Mr. Vanderlip's wife died a year ago. He is survived by a brother, John, of Rancho Palos Verdes, and 12 nieces and nephews.
      