
        Richard E. Sherwood, a California lawyer and a former president and chairman of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, died yesterday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 64 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Anthony Day, a friend of the Sherwood family, said Mr. Sherwood suffered a cerebral hemorrhage last Friday.
        Mr. Sherwood, once a law clerk to Justice Felix Frankfurter, specialized in antitrust and trade regulation. He was a senior partner in the Los Angeles firm of O'Melveny & Myers, where he had been a partner since 1964.
        Mr. Sherwood was long active in cultural affairs. He was a trustee of the Los Angeles County Art Museum since 1965, its president from 1974 to 1978 and its chairman from 1978 to 1982.
        "The museum prospered under him," Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, Mr. Sherwood's predecessor as president, said. Mr. Sherwood's strengths included both knowledge of art and skill in fund raising, Dr. Murphy said.
        In the mid-1970's Mr. Sherwood said the museum was "not as strong as we ought to be" in Old Masters and was in need of more African, pre-Columbian and 18th- and 19th-century American works.
        Mr. Sherwood was also a trustee of the California Institute of the Arts and was a member of the board of directors of the Center Theatre Group at the Los Angeles Theater Center from 1980 until his death. He served successively as its president and chairman, and chairman of its executive committee. Man of Diverse Interests
        He served on the White House Task Force on Antitrust Policy in 1967 and 1968.
        Mr. Sherwood was also prominent in efforts to further cultural ties between Japan and the United States and served as a trustee and officer of the Asia Society, based in New York, from 1978 until his death.
        Mr. Day, former editor of the editorial pages of The Los Angeles Times, said in an interview, "He had a talent for bringing diverse people together; that was probably the most striking thing about his leadership."
        His foreign interests also included serving as chairman of the board of overseers of the Rand-U.C.L.A. Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies.
        He was born in Los Angeles, the son of Benjamin Berkley Sherwood and Jennie Goldeen Sherwood. He graduated from Beverly Hills High School and received a bachelor's degree from Yale University in 1949 and an L.L.B., magna cum laude, in 1952 from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of The Harvard Law Review.
        It was after service in the Air Force and a traveling fellowship from Harvard that he was a clerk to Justice Frankfurter, in 1954 and 1955. He then joined O'Melveny & Myers, where he spent his 38-year law career.
        Mr. Sherwood is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Lipsey Romonek, whom he married in 1953; a daughter, Elizabeth Deirdre Sherwood of Santa Fe, N.M., and a son, Benjamin Berkley Sherwood 2d of Washington.
      