
        Dominique Bozo, president of the Pompidou Center and founding director of the Picasso Museum in Paris, died yesterday in Paris. He was 58.
        The cause was cancer, a Pompidou Center statement announced.
        As a creative curator, a master of installation and the guardian of the French national patrimony in the field of 20th-century art, Mr. Bozo played a fundamental role in the enormous and rational enlargement of French public collections over the last 20 years.
        Mr. Bozo (pronounced boh-ZOH) was co-organizer with William Rubin of the great Picasso exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1980. Kirk Varnedoe, director of painting and sculpture at the museum, said yesterday: "Dominique Bozo's death is a tragedy for all who knew him and a terrible loss for the French nation he served so well. He was one of the great museum leaders of his generation." Handled a Move
        Mr. Bozo's entire working life was spent in the museum field. Appointed to the staff of the Musee National d'Art Moderne in 1969, he took charge of its eventual relocation to the Pompidou Center, which opened in 1974.
        In 1974 he also undertook one of the most onerous tasks ever assigned to a museum official. When Picasso died in 1973, he left no will, and the estate, although expected to be very large, turned out to be so enormous as almost to defy compilation.
        In addition, Picasso was survived not only by his second wife, Jacqueline, but by children and grandchildren, legitimate and illegitimate, all of whom had claims upon the estate. Had Mr. Bozo not won their trust, there could have ensued both a lifetime of lawsuits and a piecemeal, contested dispersal that would have ruled out even the notion of a Picasso Museum in Paris.
        With the help of a small and devoted team of authorities on Picasso, Mr. Bozo disentangled the estate and persuaded the artist's heirs to agree to a fair and rational distribution that would be satisfactory to all parties. A Picasso Archive
        This done, he proceeded to plan the transformation of a stately 17th-century town house in Paris into the Picasso Museum, which was made over not only as a superb setting for many of the artist's finest works but also as an archival center that would reveal to what extent Picasso never threw anything away. The museum opened to great acclaim in 1984.
        Picasso's biographer, John Richardson, said yesterday that Mr. Bozo "was the keeper of Picasso's flame" and added, "Among Picasso scholars he had far and away the sharpest eye and mind, and a generosity of spirit all too rare in the field."
        The Pompidou Center, meanwhile, was becoming the victim of its huge and unexpected popularity, its multifarious activities and a Byzantine administrative structure. When Mr. Bozo returned to the Center in 1981 as director of the Musee National d'Art Moderne, he re-installed the museum, bringing out the full range of its collections and displaying the many major acquisitions that had been made. Resignation and Return
        Budgetary and other problems led Mr. Bozo to resign in 1986, but he returned to the center in 1990. In August 1991 he was named its president, with a mandate for radical reform that would give new energy and assurance to a museum that was in deep trouble.
        Despite his illness, Mr. Bozo busied himself with the administrative tangles of the center, ordered the renovation of its physical structure, planned a new main entrance and, not least, took charge of the current Matisse exhibition.
        Born in Alencon on Jan. 28, 1935, Mr. Bozo studied in Paris at the Ecole du Louvre, the Institute of Art and Archeology and the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes. Initially a teacher, he served in the French culture ministry from 1966 to 1968 and was assigned in 1969 to the Musee National d'Art Moderne, which was then on the Avenue President-Wilson in Paris.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      