
        Dr. James Lynn Hoard, an expert in crystallography whose work helped to explain crystalline and molecular structures, died last Saturday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y., his hometown. He was 87.
        The cause was complications from injuries suffered in a fall, according to Cornell University, where he was professor emeritus of chemistry.
        Dr. Hoard was one of the early students of Dr. Linus Pauling in his laboratory at the California Institute of Technology. An assistant chemist in his 20's, he pioneered the use of X-ray diffraction to study crystal structures.
        His findings led to a part in atom bomb research with the Manhattan Project in World War II. His task was to analyze the nature of uranium compounds.
        Dr. Pauling said that Dr. Hoard contributed significantly to the knowledge of structural chemistry, including the chemistry of "certain elements such as boron, and the structure of regions of hemoglobins where oxygen molecules are bonded to iron."
        Dr. Hoard was internationally known for his chemical studies of boron, an element that can react to form complex molecules of great interest to chemists. Singular in its behavior, boron is essential to plant growth and has wide industrial application.
        In 1972, Dr. Hoard was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, one of the premier distinctions for a scientist.
        Dr. Hoard graduated magna cum laude from the University of Washington. He worked for Dr. Pauling and received a Ph.D. in chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1932. He joined the Cornell faculty in 1936 as an instructor, advanced to full professor in 1942 and reached emeritus status in 1971.
        He was the author or co-author of more than 100 scientific papers, including his authoritative 1965 study of metal borides.
        Dr. Hoard is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Florence Fahey; three sons, Thomas of Ithaca, Laurence of Warwick, N.Y., and David of Oakland, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      