
        Warmoth T. Gibbs, the retired president of a mostly black university in North Carolina who supported his students when they started the lunch-counter sit-ins that helped to overturn segregation, died on Monday at a hospital in his hometown of Greensboro, N.C. He was 101.
        He had had a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Gibbs was a teacher and administrator at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical University in Greensboro for 40 years.
        During his presidency from 1955 to 1960, the university first won accreditation from the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges. In 1960 he was named president emeritus.
        That year four black students began a sit-in at the whites-only lunch counter of the Woolworth store in Greensboro, and other students marched in the street to protest the laws and customs that separated whites and blacks and limited blacks to second-class accommodations.
        Local white officials and business owners urged Mr. Gibbs to use his campus authority to clamp down on the protesters. But his response was, "We teach our students how to think, not what to think."
        Mr. Gibbs was born in Baldwin, La., and grew up on a farm in sugar cane country. Because blacks had no public schools there, he went to a United Methodist Church boarding school for blacks.
        After graduating from Wiley College in Marshall, Tex., in 1912, he earned a second bachelor's degree at Harvard University in 1917.
        He enlisted in the Army during World War I and became one of the few black officers of that time. He was a second lieutenant in the Harvard Military Training Regiment and served in combat.
        In 1926 he joined the faculty at Greensboro, where he became a military science instructor, a professor of history and government, the dean of men and for 25 years the dean of the School of Education and General Studies. He retired in 1966 at the age of 74.
        Mr. Gibbs was married for 49 years to the former Marece Jones, who died in 1967. His survivors include a daughter, Elizabeth Gibbs Moore of Greensboro; a son, Chandler of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; 12 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      