
        Henry Brandon, an authority on world affairs who was the longtime Washington corespondent of the British newspaper The Sunday Times, died yesterday at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery in London. He was 77 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was a stroke that he suffered on Friday at a restaurant in London, where he was on a trip, said Pamela Harriman, a family friend and the Ambassador-designate to France.
        Mr. Brandon was a guest scholar, in foreign policy studies, at the Brookings Institution, a private, nonprofit research organization in Washington, from 1983 until his death.
        He was a native of what is now the Czech Republic who became a naturalized British subject. He edited the book "In Search of a New World Order: The Future of U.S.-European Relations," which Brookings published last year. He recounted his lively Washington career in "Special Relationships: A Foreign Correspondent's Memoirs From Roosevelt to Reagan," brought out by Atheneum in 1989.
        Mr. Brandon was his newspaper's Washington correspondent from 1949 until he retired from its staff in 1983. From 1963 until then he was concurrently an associate editor of the paper. He was widely considered to be the best connected foreign correspondent in Washington, especially during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations.  'A Shrewd European Eye'
        Appraising his memoirs in The New York Times Book Review, Robert MacNeil, a co-host of public television's "MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour," called it "subtle and penetrating" and said: "Mr. Brandon brought to diplomatic correspondence a shrewd European eye, a sophisticated nose for politics" and "practiced a special form of interpretive journalism that often became part of the diplomatic dialogue between Washington and London."
        Mr. Brandon contended in his memoirs that the quality of United States leadership had undergone a protracted decline over the decades, for which he said the American news media were partly to blame.
        He argued that the American news media had more power and were "much less awed by authority than they used to be," and that American journalists had "become almost as influential in the development or the destruction of official policy as the executive or the legislature."
        For his part, Mr. Brandon got to know an awesome array of people in authority, including Prime Ministers Anthony Eden and Harold Macmillan of Britain. He also forged friendships with the likes of John F. Kennedy and Henry A. Kissinger.
        A book by Mr. Brandon that was published in 1973, "The Retreat of American Power," was an account of foreign policy-making by President Nixon and Mr. Kissinger. It reflected Mr. Brandon's access to American leaders.
        He felt that such ties need not distort a journalist's judgments.
        In 1969 President Nixon ordered that Mr. Brandon's telephone be wiretapped as part of efforts to halt leaks of sensitive information to the press. The tapping went on until 1971.
        In 1973, Mr. Brandon and his wife went to the 50th birthday party of Mr. Kissinger, who was a Nixon aide during the tapping. Before going, Mr. Brandon said debonairly: "Henry has denied that he had anything to do with bugging our telephone. We've chosen to believe him, and we're going to go and raise a glass." Studied in Prague
        The world of Washington politics seemed far removed from Oscar Henry Brandon's birthplace, the Bohemian city of Liberec, a railroad hub 55 miles northeast of Prague. He studied at the universities of Prague and Lausanne, Switzerland, and in 1939, while in his early 20's, he began his service with the London-based Sunday Times.
        From 1943 to 1945, he was a war correspondent, chronicling World War II in Western Europe and North Africa. In 1945 and 1946 he was his newspaper's correspondent in Paris. And from 1947 to 1949, he was a roving diplomatic correspondent, based in New York.
        His other books were "The Anatomy of Error" (1970), "Conversations with Henry Brandon" (1966), "In the Red: the Struggle for Sterling 1964-1966" (1966) and "As We Are" (1961).
        He also wrote a column, "Inside Washington," from 1984 to 1991, for The New York Times Syndicate, which distributes articles to newspapers and magazines around the world. In addition, he was a syndicated columnist for The Washington Star from 1979 to 1981 and wrote for The New York Times Magazine and other magazines.
        In 1985 he was made a Commander of the British Empire. He also received a variety of journalistic awards.
        In 1970, Mr. Brandon was married to Mabel Hobart Wentworth, known as Muffie, who went on to be the White House social secretary during part of Ronald Reagan's Presidency.
        Mr. Brandon is survived by his wife and a daughter, Fiona of Washington; a stepson, John Wentworth of Los Angeles, and two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Wentworth Yates of Washington and Alexandra Wentworth of Los Angeles.
      