
        Elizabeth Montgomery, a costume and set designer and a founding partner of the design company Motley, died on Saturday at her home in London. She was 91.
        Miss Montgomery was born in Kid lington, Oxfordshire, and grew up in Cambridge, England. She attended Westminster Art School in London, studying portrait painting with Walter Sickert. In 1932, she and two other art students, Margaret Harris and Sophia Harris, founded a theatrical design group, which they named Motley, an allusion to the line "Motley's the only wear" from "As You Like It."
        Motley created its first costumes for "Romeo and Juliet," directed by John Gielgud at Oxford University, and the company soon made its mark with costumes for his production of "Richard of Bordeaux." The Gielgud collaboration continued for the next decade. The company created sets and costumes for more than 30 Old Vic productions. An American Branch
        In 1940, Miss Montgomery and Margaret Harris traveled to the United States as the costume designers for "Romeo and Juliet," starring Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh. After marrying the writer Robert P. Wilmot, Miss Montgomery took up residence in the United States.
        As the American branch of Motley, she and Miss Harris created costumes for Katharine Cornell in "The Doctor's Dilemma" and "The Three Sisters" in the early 1940's. Miss Harris returned to Britain in 1946. Miss Montgomery's later Broadway credits include "Anne of the Thousand Days," "Peter Pan" "South Pacific," "The Most Happy Fella," "Paint Your Wagon" and "Can-Can."
        In 1958, her costumes for "The First Gentleman" won a Tony Award. That year she designed sets and costumes for "Il Trovatore" at the Metropolitan Opera.
        Motley created the costumes for the David Lean film "Great Expectations," and Miss Montgomery designed the costumes for "Oklahoma!," "Little Women" and "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
        The partners in Motley wrote two books, "Designing and Making Stage Costumes" (1964, reissued by Routledge in 1992) and "Theater Props" (1975).
        She is survived by a son, John Wilmot of Fremantle, Australia, and four stepdaughters: Patricia Christgau of Woodbury, Conn., Dorothy Zinbardi of Brentwood, L.I., Roberta Wilmot of Idaho and Joan Clarke of Spokane, Wash.
      