
        Rowland H. George, who helped to pioneer health insurance in New York, died on Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 98 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pulmonary and cardiac illness, his family said.
        Most of his career was as a Wall Street executive. But a client concerned about health insurance got him involved after a 1939 state law authorized insurance companies to offer policies.
        Many issues raised then are still debated today. Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia advocated broad coverage, while physicians' groups favored insurance through employers.
        In 1941, backed by state and local medical societies, Mr. George became the founding president of the Medical Expense Fund of New York. After a 1944 merger with two other companies, he became president of what was called United Medical Service, which eventually was renamed Blue Shield. Annual Premiums of $10
        The insurer covered physician care in surgery, fractures and maternity cases for $10 to $15 a year, with standard fees and deductibles. The allied Blue Cross covered hospital bills. Thousands of doctors enlisted. The first employer to buy coverage was J. P. Morgan and Company in 1945. Participation soared; by 1948, 730,000 people were covered.
        Mr. George started in finance in 1916 at Haley, Stuart & Company in Chicago. In 1921 he joined Wood, Struthers & Company in Manhattan and became its senior partner. He served as a governor of the New York Stock Exchange and on the boards of American Metal Climax, Consolidated Securities and Bankers Security Life Insurance.
        At his death he was chairman of Pan-Holding.
        Mr. George was born in Detroit. He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1916. In World War I he was an Army lieutenant and flying instructor in France.
        He was married 11 years to the former Marie Barker and 38 years to the former Alexandra Markoff Colby, both now deceased. His survivors are a son, Michael M.; a sister, Dorothy G. Springer of Los Angeles, and three granddaughters.
        Correction:  May 13, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary on Saturday about Rowland H. George, an investor and health insurance pioneer who died on May 6 at the age of 98, referred incorrectly to one of his employers and to the length of his second marriage. The employer was Halsey, Stuart & Company. Mr. George was married for 48 years.
      