
        Sun Ra, one of the great big-band leaders, pianists and surrealists of jazz, died yesterday at Baptist Medical Center-Princeton in Birmingham, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Philadelphia.
        A hospital spokesman said he had been suffering from chronic circulatory problems and a series of strokes.
        Sun Ra was jazz's most theatrical band leader. A performance of his would feature anything from large drum choirs and African-style chants to orchestral be-bop, free expressionism and swing pieces. He had singers, dancers and acrobats, and sometimes films and a light shows. He used a series of catch phrases and songs that emphasized both his carefully constructed persona and his self-proclaimed origins on Saturn. "Mister Re, Mr. Ra," went one song; another was called "Space Is the Place."
        He and his band, usually called the Arkestra, dressed in a funny version of 1950's intergalactica, with glittering hats (which were in fact spandex tank tops), robes and amulets that signified everything from Egyptology to outer-space surrealism. Sun Ra made his performances a mixture of camp, pandemonium, seriousness and spiritual catharsis. No one else in jazz except Dizzy Gillespie has come close to that sort of mixture of vaudevillian carnival and musical intelligence.
        Sun Ra was also an exceptional pianist, rooted deeply in the swing and blues tradition. His mastery of the blues idiom was evident during solo performances, with rhythmically flawless boogie-woogie figures in his left hand supporting endless blues ideas in his right hand. The Chicago Years
        Sun Ra's history was self-muddied. He started as a musican under the name Herman (Sonny) Blount early in his career; he also performed under other names, including Sonny Lee and Le Sonra. He was born in Birmingham and attended Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University. Early on, he performed as a sideman with Wynonie Harris and with Fess Whatley.
        He moved to Chicago in the 1930's, and through the early 1950's, he held a series of prestigious musical jobs, backing the singers Joe Williams and Lavern Baker, and leading the house band at one of Chicago's better clubs, the Club De Lisa. He performed regularly as a sideman with many of jazz's more important musicians, including Coleman Hawkins and Stuff Smith. In 1946 the big-band leader Fletcher Henderson moved into the Club De Lisa and hired Sun Ra for about a year.
        In the mid-1950's, Sun Ra organized a rehearsal band that wore purple blazers, beanies topped by propellers and white gloves when it performed in public. Always interested in documenting his band, he began recording regularly, and his band became a haven for jazz experimentalists. He moved to Philadelphia in the late 1960's, where he and his band lived in a cooperative situation ever since. A Career Without Limitations
        For much of his career, Sun Ra was allied with the avant-gardes of different idioms. Early on, he was interested in the ready-made, producing music from all sorts of instruments -- he was an early pioneer in using electronic instruments in jazz -- and putting together costumes from what often looked like scraps. His ability to remake popular culture -- by turning pop songs into electronic kitsch, for example -- was completely modern.
        The construction of his personality, with all its strange references, was strikingly independent, and his willingness to play almost anywhere, from jazz clubs to Egyptian pyramids, from Lower East Side dives with huge 50-member bands, to Coney Island with John Cage, allied him with early performance artists. His career argues persuasively against limitations.
        Sun Ra became a seminal figure in the renewal of interest in the jazz tradition among both musicians and audiences. By releasing records on his own label, Saturn, he also showed that independence was possible, even in the tough jazz world. Sun Ra's band kept its core members, including the saxophonists John Gilmore, Marshall Allen and Pat Patrick, and was often a haven for musicians down on their luck.
        In the last 15 years, Sun Ra's career blossomed, and he regularly spent part of the year working festivals and clubs. He continued recording, and his classic recordings on Saturn were recently reissued by Evidence.
        There are no survivors.
      