
        Dr. John Tuzo Wilson, a geophysicist who was one of the most persuasive proponents of the theory that the continents are on rigid plates that slowly drift around the earth's surface, died in Toronto on April 15. He was 84.
        His death was reported in the current issue of Eos, a publication of the American Geophysical Union. The cause of death appears to have been a heart attack, said Prof. Ron Farquhar, his associate and former student at the University of Toronto.
        Dr. Wilson, who known to many of his colleagues as Tuzo, was an emeritus professor in the university's physics department.
        He became an eloquent proponent of the drift hypothesis, now known as plate tectonics. In the 1960's, having been taught the conventional view that continents remain fixed relative to one another, he was won over by variety of new observations.
        In 1966, he published a paper, "Did the Atlantic Close and Then Reopen?" in the journal Nature, pointing out that ancient fossils along the coasts of New England and Canada were European, rather than American. Yet fossils of similar age from coastal Norway and Scotland were American. The explanation, he said, was that the Atlantic had closed, then reopened, leaving part of Europe stuck to America and a sliver of America stuck to Europe. It has since been concluded that such openings and closings have occurred more than once, and they are known as Wilson cycles.
        John Tuzo Wilson was born in Ottawa on Oct. 24, 1908, and during his high school years spent his summers assisting various geologists working in the Canadian Arctic and other parts of Canada and Montana. After graduating from the University of Toronto in 1930, he won a two-year scholarship at Cambridge University, which later was to pioneer in development of the plate theory. Service in World War II
        In 1936 he obtained his doctorate at Princeton University and then, for three years, served with the Geological Survey of Canada. In World War II he joined the Canadian Army and, in 1944, directed an Arctic training program.
        After the war he returned to the University of Toronto as professor of geophysics and in 1967 became principal of Erindale College there.
        In 1957-58 he was a leader in the International Geophysical Year, an ambitious program of cooperative global research. After China had refused to join in the International Geophysical Year, in protest of Taiwan's inclusion, he visited China, playing a major role in promoting scientific exchanges between China and Canada. His book, "One Chinese Moon," told of his visit there.
        In 1974 he took over as director-general of the Ontario Science Center, which became one of the largest science museums in the world, featuring many participatory exhibits. He retired from that post in 1985. Between 1983 and 1986 he also was chancellor of York University in Toronto.
        Dr. Wilson served as president of the American Geophysical Union after it changed its constitution to enable a foreigner to hold that post. He was also former president of the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics and various other societies.
        Dr. Wilson is survived by his wife, the former Isabel Dickson, and two daughters, Patricia Proctor and Susan Wilson, both of Toronto.
      