
        Julius N. Cahn, a publishing executive and former top aide to Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, died yesterday at a hospital in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Potomac, Md., and Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Cahn's star rose early in life. A native of New York, he graduated magna cum laude from City College when he was 19, and in his 20's he held important staff posts in the United States Senate, working for leaders in both parties.
        Fresh from college, he started as a management analyst in the Federal Office of Emergency Management. In 1944 he worked for the Republican National Committee in the Presidential campaign.
        After that election he was hired as the press secretary and later executive assistant to Senator Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin, the second-ranking Senate Republican and the Judiciary Committee chairman. Trip to Russia
        In 1950, Mr. Cahn joined the staff of Senator Estes Kefauver, Democrat of Tennessee, to aid his crime investigations.
        Returning in 1952 to Senator Wiley, who had become the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Cahn was named chief counsel to that committee in his late 20's.
        In 1958 he was appointed staff director of the Government Operations Subcommittee by Mr. Humphrey, then a Democratic Senator from Minnesota. Mr. Cahn arranged a trip to the Soviet Union on health issues. There the Senator had an unexpected eight-hour meeting with the nation's leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, that propelled Mr. Humphrey into international attention and Presidential contender status.
        Mr. Cahn organized hearings in 1959 on the drug thalidomide and its link to birth defects, an investigation that helped lead to a ban of the medication.
        When Mr. Humphrey became Vice President in 1964, he put Mr. Cahn in charge of his media relations and health issues. Campaigning for President in 1968 with Senator Edmund S. Muskie as his running mate, Mr. Humphrey designated Mr. Cahn deputy chairman of Citizens for Humphrey-Muskie.
        After Mr. Humphrey's election defeat, Mr. Cahn held a series of publishing posts, including as an executive at Family Health magazine, and president of Family Media, whose magazines included Ladies Home Journal.
        Surviving Mr. Cahn are his wife of 47 years, the former Ann Foote; two sons, Gary, of Bethesda, Md., and Glenn, of Newton, Mass.; two daughters, Linda Cahn of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Kiki Cahn of Lugano, Switzerland; a brother, Ralph, of the Bronx, and two grandchildren.
      