
        Louis O. Coxe, a professor, playwright and poet whose works reflect the spirit and nature of New England, died on Tuesday at the Maine Veterans Home in Augusta. He was 75 and lived in Brunswick, Me.
        His wife, Edith, said the cause was cardiopulmonary arrest and that he had had Alzheimer's disease for 11 years.
        Mr. Coxe is best known for his dramatization, with Robert Chapman, of "Billy Budd," Herman Melville's epic sea story about the conflict between good and evil. The play won critical acclaim on Broadway in 1951.
        Brooks Atkinson, writing in The New York Times, called the play "extraordinarily well done," and said that "the tragic portions are written with taste, firmness and intelligence."  Cited for Lyricism
        Although he wrote criticism and several plays, Mr. Coxe was chiefly a poet in the anti-rhetorical tradition of Edwin Arlington Robinson. Honored as the 1977 Fellow of the Academy of American Poets, he was cited for his "long, powerful, quiet accomplishment, largely unrecognized, in lyric poetry."
        Much of his work is characterized by sober reflection against a northern New England backdrop. The title work of the collection "The Wilderness and Other Poems" (1959) tells the story of an Indian expedition against an English settlement in Maine in the 18th century.
        Mr. Coxe was the author of seven volumes of poetry; the most recent was "The North Well," published in 1985. His first book, "The Sea Faring" (1947) includes poems written for the most part when he served as captain of a patrol boat in the Pacific during World War II.
        In 1955 Mr. Coxe was named Pierce Professor at Bowdoin College, where he taught English until his retirement in 1983. He taught earlier at the University of Minnesota, the Lawrenceville (N.J.) School and the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass.
        Mr. Coxe was born in Manchester, N.H. He graduated from Princeton University in 1940, was the recipient of two Fulbright grants, and taught American literature at Trinity College in Dublin for the 1959 school year and at the University of Aix-Marseille, France, in 1971.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons, Robert W. of Atlanta, Louis O. Jr. of Boston, and Charles S. of Bath, Me.; a daughter, Helen C. Cheney of Cumberland Center, Me.; a sister, Maryette C. Kirby of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      