
        The Rev. Bede Griffiths, a Roman Catholic monk and author who strove to bridge Christianity and the Hindu and Buddhist traditions of India, died on Thursday in the ashram he had headed since 1968 in southeastern India. He was 86.
        As early as 1954, in "The Golden String," an autobiography recounting his conversion to Catholicism and his entry into a Benedictine monastery, Father Griffiths had urged Christians to recognize "all that is valid and true in all the different religous traditions."
        He developed this theme in numerous books, articles, lectures and retreats, which earned him a following in both Europe and the United States.
        Ultimately he moved to India to lead a small monastic ashram in the Tamil Nadu state. It had been founded earlier by two French priests who were trying to incorporate symbols, rituals and ascetic practices native to India into Catholocism.
        Father Griffiths lived in the simple fashion of India's rural population. He adopted the garb and outward appearance of an Indian "samnyasin" or itinerant monk, going barefoot with long hair and beard and clothed in a shawl and a length of orange-colored, homespun cotton knotted at the waist.
        But in his speech and manner Father Griffiths always retained the traces of his education at Oxford, where he became a student and lifelong friend of the English scholar, novelist and theologian C. S. Lewis.  Added Some Hindu Symbols
        At Father Griffiths' ashram, daily mass was celebrated following the established Roman Catholic rite but with the addition of a few familiar Hindu gestures and symbols. Community prayers, which consisted of Psalms, Bible readings and Catholic hymns, were always preceded by a Sanskrit chant and a reading from Hindu sacred texts or mystical poetry.
        Born in Walton-on-Thames, England, in 1906, he described in "The Golden String" a childhood infused with a spontaneous pantheistic mysticism. As a schoolboy, he was scarcely able to gaze on the sky, he wrote, "because it seemed as though it was but a veil before the face of God." He left Oxford at one point to attempt a Thoreau-like return to simple living in the British countryside.
        Father Griffiths was a member of the Benedictine Prinknash Abbey in England. In India, he and the other members of his small monastic community joined the Camaldolese branch of the Benedictines, which allows monks to live as both solitary and itinerant hermits.
      