
        Thomas F. Galvin, an architect, builder and real-estate developer who was called in 10 years ago by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to complete the delayed construction of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 66 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
        The police said Mr. Galvin jumped to his death from his 12th-floor office at 10 Rockefeller Center. He left several notes, but the police will not disclose their contents, said Lieut. Raymond O'Donnell, a police spokesman.
        T'ing C. Pei, Mr. Galvin's partner in the real-estate-development firm of Pei/Galvin Holdings, said Mr. Galvin may have been upset about mounting personal debts and recent business reverses associated with the real-estate slump in New York City.
        At the time of Mr. Galvin's death, he and Mr. Pei, the eldest son of I. M. Pei, the architect, had submitted a bid to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to restore and modernize the closed New York Coliseum on Columbus Circle as a possible substitute for the stalled development project of Mortimer B. Zuckerman. The two partners had been scheduled to appear before M.T.A. officials on Wednesday, but the meeting was canceled.
        A son of a New York City police detective, Mr. Galvin initially combined the life of a successful architect with a series of unsuccessful political campaigns as a Republican candidate in Queens in the 1960's, narrowly losing a 1962 election for the House of Representatives.
        In the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay, he was appointed chairman of the New York City Board of Standards and Appeals, which was responsible for zoning variances and appeals. He was also appointed executive vice president of a city agency that sought to build a convention center on West 44th Street, and he served as the chief operating officer of the Battery Park City Authority.
        In 1980, he joined Olympia & York, the Toronto-based development company, and in 1982 he became president of Bramalea Inc., a Dallas building and real-estate development company that built a $1 billion complex in downtown Dallas. Returned From Dallas
        But when he received a call from Governor Cuomo to help rescue the Pei-designed Javits Convention Center, which was plagued by more than $100 million in cost overruns and a two-year delay in construction, Mr. Galvin said he could not resist the offer, despite the considerable loss of income his return to New York from Dallas would mean.
        "I have a tremendous emotional attachment to New York City, where I spent my entire life except for the last two years," Mr. Galvin said at the time.
        Despite labor conflicts and construction problems, Mr. Galvin successfully completed the $486 million Javits Center in 1986 and then returned to private business, first as chief executive officer of Xerox Realty Corporation and then as a principal partner in Pei-Galvin Holdings.
        Mr. Galvin, who began his career as an architect, designed several New York City apartment buildings, including the ones over the upper Manhattan entrance to the George Washington Bridge.
        Mr. Galvin is survived by his second wife, Gladys, and their two sons, Thomas and Andrew. He also had two other children, Stephen and Susan Hall Davis, from a previous marriage.
        Correction:  May 29, 1993, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Thomas F. Galvin, a developer, architect and builder in Manhattan who died on Thursday, misidentified his daughter. She is Susan Hall.
      