
        Grant E. Curtis, who helped expand scholarship programs to needy students across the nation after working his way through college as a waiter, died on Thursday at his home in Winchester, Mass. He was 72.
        The cause was leukemia, said officials at Tufts University, where he was the emeritus dean of financial aid.
        Mr. Curtis was a leader in the movement in the 1950's to start considering the financial need of applicants as well as academic promise in awarding scholarships.
        He was a co-founder and president of four professional organizations in his field: the Eastern Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators, the National Institute for Financial Aid Management in Higher Education and the Society for Advancement of Financial Aid Management in Education.
        He often testified before Congressional and legislative committees on college finance issues. When Jean Mayer was president of Tufts, he called Mr. Curtis "the senior financial aid officer in the nation."
        Mr. Curtis was born in Brockton, Mass. As a Tufts undergraduate, he helped earn his tuition by waiting tables 20 hours a week in two dining halls. A dean noticed his hard work in and out of the classroom and awarded him scholarship aid. As his career developed, he sought to extend the same kind of help to other needy students.
        He graduated from Tufts in 1942, then taught radio electronics as a staff sergeant in the Army Air Force during World War II.
        After the war he earned a master's degree in education at the University of Chicago. In 1949 he joined Tufts' education department faculty and also worked in the dean's office. Later he was promoted to director of admissions for men and in 1959 was appointed its first director of financial aid. He retired in 1987.
        Surviving are his wife of 47 years, the former Elaine C. Chalberg; a daughter, Kristina Curtis of Acton, Mass.; a son, David A. of Paris, and two grandchildren.
      