
        Sidney Ralph Bernstein, chairman of the executive committee of Crain Communications Inc. and the former editor and publisher of Advertising Age magazine, died yesterday at Weiss Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 86.
        He had suffered a heart attack at his Chicago home a week ago, the magazine, a Crain publication, reported.
        Mr. Bernstein, a native of Chicago, started his business career as a messenger at what is now Crain Communications and remained active with the company for 71 years. Over that time, he watched advertising grow from a cottage industry to a multibillion-dollar mammoth. Columnist for 21 Years
        Younger people in the industry knew him best for the column, "con-Sid-erations" that he wrote for Ad Age for the last 21 years. It was his vehicle to talk about advertising and society in outspoken and sometimes outraged tones.
        Among other things, Mr. Bernstein decried the growth of television commercials featuring rock stars instead of information of help to consumers.
        "The old traveling guy who sold elixirs from a wagon while he put on an act is the progenitor of all advertising, and now we're returning to that," he said in an interview four years ago, upon being inducted into the Advertising Hall of Fame. "The form and technique of presenting advertising have become more important than the product." Held Top Posts
        Mr. Bernstein, who attended the University of Illinois, became editor of Ad Age in 1938 but did not get around to his M.B.A. until 1956, when he received the degree from the University of Chicago. Two years later, he was promoted to publisher and president of the magazine.
        He continued to hold top posts at the magazine until 1970 while serving in a variety of capacities at the parent company. He advanced to chairman of the executive committee in 1973.
        "Sid Bernstein was the conscience of our company," said Rance Crain, son of the founder and now president of the corporation. "He played many roles with us, but none was more important than the editorial voice he continued to raise until the very end of his life."
        Mr. Bernstein is survived by his wife, Adele, and a son, Henry, of Chicago, who heads the Crain News Service.
      