
        John C. Shepherd, a former president of the American Bar Association, died on Friday at home in St. Louis. He was 67.
        He died in his sleep, his family said.
        Mr. Shepherd was the president of the 310,000-member organization of lawyers in 1984 and 1985. He was also the chairman of the Hoover Institution, a research organization at Stanford University.
        A supporter of President Ronald Reagan, Mr. Shepherd was one of three former bar presidents who testified in favor of the nomination of Robert H. Bork for the Supreme Court in 1987. Two other former bar presidents were opposed. Mr. Bork's nomination was rejected by the Senate.
        Despite his political affiliations, Mr. Shepherd spoke out against the efforts of the Reagan Administration to reduce legal aid for the poor. He also fostered the recruitment of black lawyers by placing minority high school students as interns.
        As the association president, he denounced the arrest, harassment and killing of human rights lawyers in the Philippines in 1985 and issued a protest to that nation's leader, Ferdinand Marcos. The same year Mr. Shepherd appealed to Yugoslavia to release a jailed lawyer who defended dissidents. Promoted Soviet Ties
        He also visited the Soviet Union to promote ties between American and Soviet lawyers. During his tenure, the bar association encouraged states to raise the legal age for drinking alcohol to 21.
        Mr. Shepherd suffered a setback in 1988. United States Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, who was under investigation and facing the resignation of top aides, appointed Mr. Shepherd as the acting chief deputy.
        As confirmation hearings approached, Mr. Shepherd was criticized for belonging to an all-male athletic club and an all-white country club. And a former bookkeeper, convicted of embezzling from his law firm, said that he had allowed her to write checks to herself because they had an affair. She offered no proof, and he denied the accusations.
        Two weeks after his appointment, Mr. Shepherd withdrew, saying, "My wife and I were not prepared for the pressures."
        Born in Memphis, he grew up in Cairo, Ill. He decided to become a lawyer when, as a boy delivering newspapers to the courthouse, he lingered to observe trials.
        In World War II he served as a marine in the Pacific. He graduated from Illinois College and St. Louis University law school.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Bernice Hines; two sons, J. Michael, of New York City and William N., of Washington; a brother, Donald Shepherd of Newport, N.C.; a stepsister, Margaret Sheehan of Peoria, Ill.; a stepbrother, Thomas Shepherd of Springfield, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      