
        Amos Niven Wilder, a Bible scholar, literary critic and emeritus Hollis Professor of Divinity at Harvard Divinity School, died Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Professor Wilder, the elder brother of the writer Thornton Wilder, was a longtime summer resident of Blue Hill, Me., where he did much of his writing.
        Beyond his life as a scholar and teacher, he was also a poet and a former pastor. A Congregationalist, he joined the Harvard faculty in 1954 as professor of New Testament interpretation, one of his lifelong interests. His appointment was seen at the time as part of a plan to revitalize Harvard's Divinity School, then in its 145th year. Looking Back on Battle
        In 1956 he was promoted to Hollis Professor. The professorship is believed to be the oldest endowed chair in the country, established in 1721. Professor Wilder reached emeritus status at Harvard in 1963.
        His first book, "Battle Retrospect," was a volume of verse he wrote about his experiences in World War I as a volunteer ambulance driver in France and the Balkans and then as a corporal with an artillery unit of the American Expeditionary Forces. Published in 1923 as part of the Yale Series of Younger Poets, it was reprinted in 1971 by AMS Press. It was followed over the decades by several more collections of poetry.
        He wrote extensively on the relationships of religion to modern poetry and literature and the arts. Some of his writing in the 1940's was solicited by the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, who shared his interest in modern letters. He also wrote on the life and writings of his brother, Thornton.
        He had just completed a book that harked back to his first, telling of his exposure to combat. Titled "Armageddon Revisited," it is to be published by Yale University Press. A Champion in Tennis
        A native of Madison, Wis., he graduated from Yale in 1920 with the delayed class of 1917. In college, he was a champion tennis player, and he played at Wimbledon in 1922. His keen interest in the New Testament also dated to 1922, when he briefly served as secretary to Albert Schweitzer, who was engaged in a lecture series at Oxford University.
        After completing his study for the ministry at Yale, he was ordained in 1926 and for several years served in a Congregationalist church in North Conway, N.H. He received his doctorate from Yale in 1933. He taught for 11 years at the Chicago Theological Seminary and the Federated Theological Faculty at the University of Chicago before joining Harvard.
        Professor Wilder is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Catharine Kerlin; a daughter, Catharine Wilder Guiles of New Gloucester, Me.; a son, Amos Tappan Wilder of Chevy Chase, Md.; two sisters, Isabel Wilder of Hamden, Conn., and Janet Dakin of Amherst, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      