
        Dr. Roy Richard Grinker, an educator in psychiatry and psychoanalysis for nearly six decades, died Sunday at his home in Chicago. He was 92.
        The cause was a stroke, said his grandson, Dr. Roy R. Grinker 3d.
        Dr. Grinker was the founder and former chairman of the Institute of Psychosomatic and Psychiatric Research and Training at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago.
        He studied under Sigmund Freud from 1933 to 1935. At the centennial of Freud's birth in 1956, he said Freud had left "much unfinished business to his followers, which can only be accomplished if yesterday's ideas are considered as points of departure and not as fixed limitations."
        Dr. Grinker influenced many leading psychiatrists and other mental health professionals. Besides establishing the Psychosomatic and Psychiatric Institute in 1950, he was professor emeritus of three universities: the University of Chicago, the University of Illinois and Northwestern.
        He was also a longtime chief editor of the American Medical Association's Archives of General Psychiatry. He wrote 28 books and 368 professional articles. His best-known book, "Men Under Stress" (The Blakiston Company, 1945), was written with Maj. John P. Spiegel when Dr. Grinker was a colonel in the Air Force and discusses neurotic disabilities of servicemen.
        A native of Chicago, he graduated from the University of Chicago and received his M.D. from Rush Medical College in 1921. He began his academic career as an instructor in neurology at Northwestern in 1925. He headed the Psychosomatic and Psychiatric Institute until his retirement in 1976, but continued teaching until 1989.
        He was awarded the Distinguished Service Award of the American Psychiatric Association in 1972. That same year, his associates and former students published a book in his honor, "Modern Psychiatry and Clinical Research" (Basic Books).
        Surviving are his wife, Mildred; a son, Dr. Roy R. Grinker Jr.; a daughter, Joan Richman; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      