
        David Waymer, a durable defensive back for 13 seasons in the National Football League, collapsed and died yesterday at his farm home outside Mooresville, N.C. A preliminary autopsy showed that Waymer, who was 34, had recently ingested cocaine.
        Waymer, who played last season for the Los Angeles Raiders, suffered seizures and collapsed shortly before 8 A.M. while holding his 13-month-old son, David 3d, his wife, B. J., told the paramedics. He was taken to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center in Mooresville, where he was pronounced dead.
        Dr. Patrick Lantz,, a regional forensic pathologist who performed an autopsy at North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston Salem, said the examination had detected cocaine in Waymer's blood and urine and a slight narrowing of an artery leading to the heart. Played at Notre Dame
        He said he could not provide a definitive cause of death until after a microscopic examination of the heart and further tests to determine the concentration of cocaine in Waymer's blood and urine.
        Waymer, who was born in Brooklyn, grew up in Charlotte, N.C., where he was a star football and baseball player in high school. Although he was drafted by the Cincinnati Reds, he chose football and a scholarship to Notre Dame. A four-year letterman who started as a wide receiver and switched to cornerback his junior year, he played on the 1977 team that won the unofficial national championship and in 1979 he set a school record by intercepting two passes for touchdowns against Miami.
        Drafted by the New Orleans Saints on the second round in 1980, he became one of the National Football League's most dependable defensive backs, regularly leading his team in interceptions and being named to the Pro Bowl in 1987. He spent 10 seasons with New Orleans and played two years for the San Francisco 49ers before joining the Raiders last season. Except for the 1982 strike, he had played in every game since the beginning of his rookie season, a total of 197. Coach Feels the Loss
        "This is such a tragic loss of someone so young and vibrant," said the Raiders' coach, Art Shell.
        Since 1986, when the Maryland basketball star Len Bias died after taking cocaine, several well-known athletes have died after using cocaine, which even in moderate doses is known to cause seizures and heart failure. They include two other N.F.L. defensive backs, Don Rogers of the Cleveland Browns, in 1986, and David Croudip of the Atlanta Falcons in 1988.
        In addition to his wife and son, Waymer's survivors include his mother, Barbara.
      