
        Manuel Alum, a modern dancer and choreographer, died on Monday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Alum was a performer of dark and powerful intensity, a quality inherent in his choreography as well. Influenced in part by the technical demands and tragic subject matter of many dances by Paul Sanasardo, a mentor, Mr. Alum's choreography tended to be about subjects like imprisonment, madness and war.
        His dances had a stylized quality that gave them something of the formality of traditional Asian theater and dance. Mr. Alum's experiences as the first recipient of the Japan/U.S. Friendship Commission Grant were summed up in his 1981 "Made in Japan," a "solo kinetic diary," as he put it, that Anna Kisselgoff, in her review in The New York Times, described as mesmerizing. Ten years later, he was commissioned by the Asia Society to create "Made in Malaysia: A Shamanic Journey," in which he again viewed Eastern tradition through the filter of a Western modern-dance esthetic.
        Mr. Alum (pronounced ah-LOOM) was born in Avezibo, P.R. He began his dance training when he moved to Chicago to study art. He studied with Neville Black before coming to New York, where he trained with Martha Graham, Mia Slavenska and Mr. Sanasardo. He danced with the Sanasardo company, becoming a principal and the director of the troupe before leaving in 1973 to devote himself to his own choreography.
        The Manuel Alum Dance Company inaugurated the LePercq Space at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1971. Mr. Alum created more than 50 dances, performed by his company and by others, including the Ballet Rambert, Bat-Dor Dance Company, Dance Theater of Harlem, Ballet Hispanico and the Washington Ballet. He also taught dance and toured the world as a solo performer.
        He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Delio Alum of Pompano Beach, Fla.; a sister, Carol Dian of Chicago, and a brother, Walter, of Tampa, Fla.
      