
        Robert H. Brimberg, a Wall Street executive who was known for the lunches he held so that major investors could meet each other and talk about their business, collapsed and died at a restaurant in Manhattan Thursday night. He was 64.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        He headed Brimberg & Company, a small securities business by Wall Street standards, but he was legendary for his lunches and his Christmas parties.
        He was a big man and in "The Money Game," a 1967 best seller about Wall Street by Adam Smith, Mr. Brimberg was portrayed under the name of "Scarsdale Fats."
        His personality and the stature of those attending his lunches were the main attractions for guests. His pointed questions and sometimes brusque manner cut through platitudes and kept the meetings lively and popular.
        "The price of admission was that you had to have something to say," said H. Erich Heinemann, an economist. "He ran the only true salon, in the 17th-century French meaning, for the investment community."
        Arther Lipper 3d, an investment banker and friend who was dining with Mr. Brimberg when he died in a Chinese restaurant in midtown, said that Mr. Brimberg "was the intellectual peer of those he dealt with, but because he did not feel the need to be intellectually competitive with them, he could get people to talk about what they were doing."
        Mr. Brimberg graduated from Yale with a degree in English. He started his career on Wall Street after his father, a furrier, bought a small Wall Street firm because he thought the fur business was declining.
        Soon afterward, Mr. Brimberg recognized that such institutions as pension funds, bank trust departments and mutual funds were emerging as the major forces in the stock market. Unable to offer research reports like larger firms, Mr. Brimberg began holding lunches in a spartan rented room on Broad Street.
        His firm benefited from the lunches because major investors, out of gratitude for information gleaned through him, would use Brimberg & Company to handle some of their trades.
        Mr. Brimberg is survived by his wife, Dorothy Anne, and three sons, Frederick of New York, Richard of Greenwich, Conn., and Christopher of North Miami, Fla., and one grandchild.
      