
        Alwin Nikolais, a choreographer, designer, composer of electronic music and pioneer of multi-media dance, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said the choreographer Murray Louis, Mr. Nikolais's companion of more than 40 years.
        A complete man of the theater, Mr. Nikolais was at various times called a new P. T. Barnum, a choreographic Wizard of Oz, a one-man band and a Renaissance man. He proclaimed himself an artistic polygamist. "It is impossible for me to be a purist; my loves are too various for that," he wrote in an essay in 1966. "I look upon this polygamy of motion, shape, color and sound as the basis of the theater."
        Mr. Nikolais gave the world a dance-theater in which, thanks to the marvels of his lighting and the ingenuities of his costuming, dancers magically changed in appearance as they moved across the stage. In 1987, Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times: "His contribution has been so original that among other modern-dance choreographers, he is the first to be considered truly inimitable. Any aspiring innovator who experiments with slide projections, light play on dancers' bodies and fabric as an extension of the human form will find that Alwin Nikolais has been there before." Inspired by Germans
        Mr. Nikolais was born in Southington, Conn., on Nov. 25, 1910. He studied piano and organ as a young man and worked as a puppeteer and as a pianist for silent films. In 1933, he attended a performance by Mary Wigman, the foremost German Expressionist dancer of the time, and was impressed by both her dancing and her use of percussion music. Wishing to learn more about her percussion techniques, he consulted Truda Kaschmann, a Wigman student who was teaching in Hartford, and Ms. Kaschmann persuaded him to study dance. He began choreographing in 1936.
        From 1938 to 1940 he attended the Bennington School of the Dance, a summer school in Vermont that brought together representatives of several major modern-dance trends. He was particularly inspired by Hanya Holm, another Wigman student. What Mr. Nikolais found stimulating about German modern dance, though, was not its emotional intensity but the logical way its theorists analyzed form.
        After serving with the Signal Corps in World War II, he worked as a teaching assistant for Miss Holm's summer dance workshops at Colorado College in Colorado Springs. It was there that in 1949 he met Murray Louis, a dancer who became the leading male soloist in several of Mr. Nikolais's productions in New York. Mr. Louis eventually organized his own company. Yet the Nikolais and Louis troupes have occasionally shared seasons since the 1970's, most recently one at the Joyce Theater in New York City that ended in February 1992. The Movement and the Music
        In 1948 Mr. Nikolais (pronounced NIK-oh-lye) was appointed dance director of the Henry Street Settlement Playhouse, a neighborhood arts center on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. At Henry Street he began to devise the mixed-media spectacles that made him famous. He retired as a dancer in 1950 and then devoted his energies to teaching, choreographing, designing and composing electronic music.
        He remained at Henry Street until his projects outgrew the tiny playhouse in 1970. The Nikolais company and school now have their headquarters at 375 West Broadway in SoHo.
        Mr. Nikolais's first important multi-media production was "Masks, Props and Mobiles," produced at Henry Street in 1953. The objects to which its title refers turned up again in many of the creations that followed. His major works included "Kaleidoscope" (1956), "Totem" (1959), "Imago" (1963), "Sanctum" (1964), "Scenario" (1971), "Arporisms" (1977), "Gallery" (1978), "Pond" (1982), "Graph" (1984) and "Crucible" (1985).
        Mr. Nikolais's company toured extensively in the United States in the 1960's and made its European debut in 1968. It proved especially influential in France, where Mr. Nikolais served as artistic director of the Centre Nationale de Danse Contemporaine in Angers from 1979 to 1981 and choreographed "Schema" for the Paris Opera Ballet in 1980. A Witty, Genial Perfectionist
        A tall, white-haired man with piercing blue eyes, Mr. Nikolais was an imposing figure. A perfectionist in the classroom, he ruled his company like a benign autocrat. Yet he could be witty and genial in conversation and was known to his associates as Nik.
        He developed his abstract multi-media dance in reaction to the psychologically motivated dance-dramas that prevailed in the 1940's and 50's. His first productions disturbed some audiences. For instance, John Martin, The New York Times's dance critic in the 50's, found Mr. Nikolais's choreography "highly evocative and full of atmosphere," as he wrote in 1956. Nevertheless, that same year, he said of one production, "There is not an emotion anywhere on the premises."
        Less tolerant dancegoers accused Mr. Nikolais's choreography of being dehumanized because of its reliance upon technology and mixed-media effects.
        He also had articulate defenders. Writing in the magazine Dance Observer in 1957, the esthetician George Beiswanger conceded that Mr. Nikolais made "the props dance and the dancers prop." But he added: "Now one may take this in two ways, as dehumanizing the dancer or as animizing the thing. I am inclined, perhaps perversely, to the latter view."
        That view prevailed. Audiences began to realize that by showing dancers interacting with mobile props and constantly changing lighting effects, Mr. Nikolais had created kinetic metaphors for the interrelationship of man and the universe, and his dances were described as ecological in their philosophical vision.
        Mr. Nikolais's last public appearance was at a tribute to him in January at Marymount Manhattan Theater, organized by Mr. Louis, that brought together current Nikolais-Louis performers and many of the choreographers and dancers who had gone on to important careers after working with Mr. Nikolais. In October, Mr. Nikolais and Mr. Louis were honored at "Dance Reconstructed," a conference at Douglass College of Rutgers University, at which the company also performed.
        A compact disk of Mr. Nikolais's music is to be released by C.R.I. Records this month. A two-week retrospective of his dances is scheduled for July at the Joyce Theater in Manhattan.
        Mr. Nikolais's honors included the Dance Magazine Award (1967), the Grand Prix de la Ville de Paris (1969), the Capezio Award (1982), the Scripps American Dance Festival Award (1985) and two Guggenheim Fellowships. The French Government named him a Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters in 1982, and a Knight of the Legion of Honor in 1985. In 1987 he received both the Kennedy Center Honors and a National Medal of Arts.
        In addition to Mr. Louis, Mr. Nikolais is survived by two sisters, Gertrude and Janette Nikolais, both of Plantsville, Conn.
      