
        Kenneth R. Giddens, who as head of the Voice of America participated in a stormy debate over whether the agency should be a propaganda organ or a broadcaster of unbiased news, died on Friday at a hospital in Mobile, Ala. He was 84 and lived in Mobile and Washington.
        He died of natural causes, his family said.
        Thoughout its history, the Voice of America's role in broadcasting overseas has been a source of dispute. Mr. Giddens often found himself torn on the issue as director of the agency from 1969, when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him, until 1977, when President Jimmy Carter dismissed him. He also had the position of assistant director of the United States Information Agency.
        His background was as a broadcaster who founded and ran WKRG-AM and FM and WKRG-TV in Mobile. Protest Over Influence
        Sometimes he criticized what he called State Department interference with Voice of America news reports. Other times he fought to promote the United States on the air and despaired about the tradition of reporting facts unfavorable to the nation's reputation.  In 1975, Mr. Giddens accused the State Department of exerting intolerable pressure on newscasts, with officials' saying, "Don't say this, don't say that or don't talk about that."
        "It is particularly important for the V.O.A.," he said, "to have an image and reputation of telling the truth."
        That year the agency reported on a Senate investigation of moves by the Central Intelligence Agency to assassinate foreign leaders. Mr. Giddens said other nations hid their misdeeds, and "I wish we were smart enough and our system permitted some way legally -- legally -- so we could clean our dirty linen in private."
        At that time, he said, his news employees were "going to play this thing straight."
        Later he criticized Federal support of the agency as weak and said it bordered on the disgraceful.  Architect and Theater Owner
        Under the Reagan Administration, he returned briefly in 1985 as acting director of Radio Marti, the Government station that broadcasts to Cuba. He remained active in his company as chairman emeritus.
        Mr. Giddens was born in Pineapple, Ala., and graduated from Alabama Polytechnic Institute in 1931 with a degree in architecture. In the 1930's and 40's he designed and constructed public works, commercial buildings and apartments and community complexes with movie theaters. He was a co-founder of the Giddens & Rester Theaters, a chain in Alabama, Mississippi and Florida.
        In World War II he served as a lieutenant in the Navy Reserve in Washington.
        Mr. Giddens founded WKRG operations in 1946, using his initials in the call letters. He was a former board member of the National Association of Broadcasters and president of its Alabama division.
        He was also a past chairman of the New Orleans Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
        Surviving are his wife of 59 years, the former Zelma Kirk; three daughters, Ansley Green and Therese Greer, both of Mobile, and Kay Glenday of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      