
        Dr. David H. Blankenhorn, a professor of medicine at the University of Southern California who pioneered research showing that a low-fat diet and drug therapy could reverse heart disease, died Sunday at his home in Pacific Grove, Calif. He was 68.
        The cause was prostate cancer, a university spokesman said.
        Dr. Blankenhorn spent most of his life studying how a greasy material called plaque is deposited in arteries.  When plaque builds up in the coronary arteries, they narrow and harden, increasing the risk of heart attacks.
        Dr. Blankenhorn was one of the first people to show that a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet combined with cholesterol-lowering drugs could not only halt heart disease but also reverse it, said Dr. Scott M. Grundy, a leading member of the American Heart Association and director of the Center for Human Nutrition at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in Dallas.  He fought to convince cardiologists that heart disease could be reversed relatively quickly, and his work represents a major advance in the field, Dr. Grundy said.
        Dr. Blankenhorn published a landmark study on the subject in 1987.
        Most cardiologists were skeptical that heart disease could be halted until Dr. Blankenhorn developed quantitative methods for measuring the diameter of coronary arteries in heart patients, said Dr. David Steinberg, a professor of medicine at the University of California at San Diego. The technique uses computer processing of X-ray pictures of arteries to give clear pictures of the plaque.
        In 1991 Dr. Blankenhorn led a study showing that a single cholesterol lowering drug, lovastatin, given in conjunction with a low-fat diet, can reverse heart disease. The final results, showing extensive plaque regression, will be published in The Annals of Internal Medicine this year.
        More recently, Dr. Blankenhorn was working on a noninvasive method for measuring plaque in neck arteries as a way of assessing the health of the body's entire arterial system, said Dr. Howard Hodis, an assistant professor of medicine at U.S.C. He hoped to identify people at risk for developing blocked arteries and to prevent heart disease with diet and drugs, Dr. Hodis said.
        David Blankenhorn was educated at Dartmouth College and the University of Cincinnati Medical School and was a resident in internal medicine at Cincinnati General Hospital. After serving in the Army as head of a hospital in Vienna, he resumed his studies at the Rockefeller Institute in New York. In 1957, he joined the faculty at U.S.C. and was chief of cardiology there from 1963 to 1980. He was also the director and founder of the school's Atherosclerosis Research Unit.
        Dr. Blankenhorn is survived by his wife, the former Anne Ramsey; four children, David Blankenhorn of Oakland, Calif.; Mary Losure of St. Paul, Susan Sherer of Kneeland, Calif., and John Blankenhorn of Valencia, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      