
        Leo Srole, a sociologist who directed landmark studies on the mental health of urban Americans, died on Saturday at his home in Queens. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Srole drew widespread attention, and skepticism, with his 1962 findings that only 18.5 percent of 1,660 New York City residents studied were in good mental health. The study found that 58.1 percent had mild to moderate symptoms of mental illness and 23.4 percent suffered severe problems. Few were being treated.
        The report, the Midtown Manhattan Study, was based on an eight-year project by psychiatrists and was described then as the most comprehensive mental health survey ever done.
        Despite initial doubts, the figures won scientific acceptance and were used by a Presidential commission in projecting national estimates. The American Journal of Psychiatry called the study "a beacon to all future researchers."
        The report was frequently cited as proof of the ill effects of city life. But Dr. Srole rebutted that view with a 1977 comparison showing rural and small-town residents with worse rates of illness.
        Following up on the Manhattan study, Dr. Srole and his colleagues were surprised to find that their subjects' mental health generally improved with age. Another study in 1980 found marked progress in the mental health of women over the age of 40, which Dr. Srole attributed to wider opportunities. Professor at Columbia
        Dr. Srole, who retired in 1988, was a professor at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Earlier he taught and did research at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center, Yale University, Hobart College, Cornell University and Albert Einstein Medical College.
        His books included "Mental Health in the Metropolis" (McGraw-Hill, 1962) and "The Social Systems of American Ethnic Groups" (Yale Press, 1945). He also studied ethnic voting patterns, bias, smoking, obesity and immigration.
        Dr. Srole (the name rhymes with roll) was born in Chicago. He earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and a doctorate in anthropology at the University of Chicago.
        In World War II he was a sergeant, assigned to psychological research for the Army.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Esther Alpiner; a son, Ira of Rochester; a daughter, Rebecca Srole Schroedel of Tarrytown, N.Y.; a brother, Saul of Silver Spring, Md.; a sister, Rena Burstyn of Medford, Ore.; two grandchildren; two step-grandchildren, and one step great-grandchild.
      