
        Beatrice Bishop Berle, a physician, teacher and author, died on Friday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass.  She was 90 years old.
        Her death was caused by complications from a stroke, said her daughter, Beatrice Berle Meyerson.
        Dr. Berle, who ran a neighbhorhood health clinic in East Harlem from 1953 until 1962, took a pioneering approach to family medicine by treating the entire family for the effects of heroin abuse by a member. She also helped to establish methadone maintenance as a significant treatment for heroin abuse.
        Dr. Berle, who was born on Aug. 6, 1902, in Lenox, Mass, graduated from Vassar College in 1923. She received a master's degree in history from Columbia University in 1924 and a medical degree from New York University in 1938.
        In 1927 she married Adolf A. Berle Jr., an economist and lawyer who served during the Roosevelt Administration as Assistant Secretary of State. Dr. Berle worked in the United States Public Health Service in Washington from 1943 until 1944. Worked in Brazil
        Traveling to Brazil with her husband, who was Ambassador to Brazil from 1945 until 1946, Dr. Berle volunteered in hospital wards in Rio de Janeiro, where she organized efforts to expand the practice of preventive medicine. She also wrote articles and edited a book on medical problems in Brazil.
        Her other books were "Eighty Puerto Rican Families in New York City," a study of the families in her East Harlem clinic, published by Columbia University Press in 1958, and "A Life in Two Worlds," an autobiography published in in 1983 by Walker & Company.
        During her career, Dr. Berle was associated with St. Luke's Hospital Center, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at the Bronx State Hospital, Cornell University Medical College, New York University Medical College and Yeshiva University.
        After the death of her first husband in 1971, Dr. Berle in 1975 married Dr. Andre F. Cournand, a physican who was awarded the Nobel Prize for medicine in 1956. Dr. Cournand died in 1988.
        In addition to Ms. Meyerson, of Washington, Dr. Berle is survived by another daughter, Alice Berle Crawford of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a son, Peter A. A. Berle of Manhattan; 10 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      