
        Alexis Smith, a Hollywood actress of the 1940's and 50's who later won a Tony Award as a star of the Broadway musical "Follies," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 72 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was cancer, her doctors said.
        In a career that began when she was spotted by a Warner Brothers talent agent in 1941, Miss Smith had an image as a strong-willed actress who often played tempestuous romantic leads opposite many of Hollywood's most glamourous male stars.
        Starting out as a young actress at Warner Brothers, she played a series of film roles that established her as one of Hollywood's leading actresses. Though known for her beauty, with her penetrating blue-green eyes and low, throaty voice, she managed to submerge it when asked to play a vengeful woman or a cold, calculating seductress. Popular With Crews
        One of her most successful films was "Night and Day" (1946), in which she played the wife of the composer Cole Porter, opposite Cary Grant.
        Among her other films were "The Constant Nymph" (1943), with Charles Boyer; "The Horn Blows at Midnight" (1945), with Jack Benny; "Stallion Road" (1947), with Ronald Reagan; "Of Human Bondage" (the 1946 version), with Paul Henreid and Eleanor Parker; "The Two Mrs. Carrolls" (1947), with Humphrey Bogart; "Any Number Can Play" (1949), with Clark Gable; "Here Comes the Groom" (1951), with Bing Crosby; and "The Turning Point" (1952), with William Holden.
        More often than not, Miss Smith received good reviews even when her play or film had bad ones. And on stage and film sets, she was widely known as an easygoing professional who loved her craft. Like Barbara Stanwyck, whose career paralleled hers, she was a favorite among crews and stagehands. From Canada to Broadway
        Miss Smith was born in Canada, but her family moved to Los Angeles when she was a child and she grew up in Southern California. While a student at Los Angeles City College, she was spotted by a Warner Brothers talent scout when she appeared in a campus theater production. The steady stream of films that followed extended her career for nearly two decades.
        But in what many critics regard as the pinnacle of her career, Miss Smith became the toast of Broadway in 1971 when she starred in the Stephen Sondheim musical "Follies" and wowed patrons with her biting rendition of "Could I Leave You?"
        Starting in 1984, she had a small, recurring role in the hit CBS television series "Dallas." In 1988 she appeared in the short-lived television drama "Hothouse."
        But her opinion of her film career was mixed. In a 1971 interview, she said she rarely watched her old films because she thought they were not very good and "would not improve with age."
        "People frequently said it was a shame Warner Brothers typecast me," she said. "But I believe I typecast myself." She cited actresses like Bette Davis and Olivia de Havilland, who successfully resisted such efforts.
        "I ended up being the wife of Cole Porter sitting in the audience applauding the composer," she added ruefully.
        Miss Smith was married for 49 years to Craig Stevens, the actor who played the title role in the television series "Peter Gunn" in the late 1950's and early 60's. Miss Smith and Mr. Stevens often played opposite each other in film, television and stage shows. They had no children.
        She is survived by Mr. Stevens.
      