
        Dr. Doxey A. Wilkerson, an education expert who was a leader in union, civil rights and civic causes, died yesterday at a hospital in his hometown, Norwalk, Conn. He was 88.
        Dr. Wilkerson, who specialized in early childhood development, served as chairman of Yeshiva University's Education Department of Curriculum and Instruction from 1963-73.
        He also taught at Virginia State College, Howard University and Bishop College and was the faculty and curriculum director of the Jefferson School of Social Change. From 1973-84 he was vice president of Mediax Associates, consultants for evaluating the Head Start education program.
        For a dozen years he was a Communist Party leader, serving on its national committee and being investigated by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. Dr. Wilkerson publicly resigned from the party in 1957, disillusioned by revelations about Stalin.
        Early in his career Dr. Wilkerson worked for President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Advisory Committee on Education and for the Federal Office of Price Administration.
        While at Howard he was a national vice president of the American Federation of Teachers. He was involved in attempts to win permission for Marian Anderson to sing in Constitution Hall, the auditorium in Washington owned by the Daughters of the American Revolution, where black performers were barred. Instead she gave an outdoor concert at the Lincoln Memorial that became a famous civil rights event.
        In the 1940's Dr. Wilkerson was managing editor of The People's Voice in Harlem and a columnist for The Daily Worker, a newspaper of the Communist Party. He worked with Paul Robeson on foreign issues and testified for days claiming biased jury selection in a Federal trial of Communist officials.
        Bishop College, in Dallas, dismissed him in 1957 for participating in sit-in demonstrations to integrate lunch counters.
        Dr. Wilkerson was a consultant to the United States Office of Education, National Institute for Education, Educational Testing Service, Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary schools, New York University, Afro American Institute, National Scholarship Service, Fund for Negro Students and the National Jewish Congress.
        Dr. Wilkerson was born in Excelsior Springs, Kan. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Kansas and a doctorate at New York University.
        Surviving is his wife of nearly 50 years, the former Yolanda Barnett.
        Correction:  June 19, 1993, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Doxey A. Wilkerson, an educator who lived in Norwalk, Conn., referred incorrectly to two organizations for which he worked. They are the Jefferson School of Social Science and the American Jewish Congress, not the Jefferson School of Social Change and the National Jewish Congress.
      