
        Ralph Taylor, a pharmacist who for half a century was co-owner and manager of Casswell-Massey Company, the oldest apothecary business in the country, died on Thursday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 89 and lived in Hallandale, Fla., and Manhattan.
        His daughter, Jo Taylor Marshall, said the cause was a stroke.
        Mr. Taylor went to work for Casswell-Massey's flagship operation, at 518 Lexington Avenue in Manhattan, as an errand boy at age 12 and and became a bottle-washer at 16. In 1937, he and his brother, Milton, acquired ownership of the company, which was founded in Newport, R.I., in 1752.
        As company chairman, Ralph Taylor was imbued with the store's history. He could produce prescriptions and orders with the names of Lillian Russell, Diamond Jim Brady, Edwin Booth, Sarah Bernhardt and other figures in theater. He could tell tales of other prominent patrons from the company's past, like Edgar Allan Poe, William Saroyan, Herbert Hoover and assorted Vanderbilts and Astors. George Washington's Cologne
        He would present with special pride the "Number 6" cologne, composed of orange, lemon, neroli, rosemary oil and other ingredients, which, he said, had delighted George Washington, Dolly Madison, the Marquis de Lafayette and remained popular through the years.
        Under the Taylors' guidance, the company expanded to 30 pharmacies and cosmetics boutiques around the country, as well as several international franchises. The family sold the company in 1987.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Taylor graduated from Columbia University and received a Ph.D. in Pharmacy in 1922.
        Besides his interest in old pharmaceuticals, Mr. Taylor was an enthusiast of Baroque music and was an active member of the American Recorder Society. He taught the recorder at New York University's Adult Education Department and directed the Instrumentae Anciens group.
        He also worked closely with his wife, Sydney Taylor, author of the well-known "All-of-a-Kind Family" children's books. She died in 1978. A benefactor of Jewish children's books of universal appeal, Mr. Taylor was unable to attend Tuesday's ceremony of the Association of Jewish Libraries, where four awards are given annually in memory of his wife.
        He is survived by his daughter of Far Hills, N.J.
      