
        Boris Christoff, the Bulgarian bass whose performances as Boris Godunov virtually defined the role for several generations of singers and operagoers, died yesterday at his home in Rome. He was 79.
        The Associated Press reported the cause as the effects of a stroke he suffered six years ago.
        Mr. Christoff's insight into character and psychology made him one of the great acting singers of the century. His voice was commanding more for its eloquence and color than for its size; it was not enormous by the standards of the great Russian basses with whom he was usually compared (most notably Chaliapin, whose successor he was often said to be), and the top had an almost baritonal brightness. Yet he was able to produce the thundering rage necessary to play the aging, often mad kings in whom he specialized. At the other end of the vocal spectrum, he was renowned for the kind of high, floated pianissimo that he brought to roles like Philip II in "Don Carlo."
        Above all, Mr. Christoff's performances had an intensity of emotion and a deeply internalized sense of motivation. On the opera stage -- and even on recordings -- his portrayals could be lifelike: sometimes terrifyingly, sometimes touchingly. And although he created this effect most vividly in his performances of Russian operas and Verdi works, he brought a similarly colorful expressive range to the Russian song literature, which he helped restore to the active recital repertory.  Kings and Devils
        Mr. Christoff's opera repertory included some 40 roles in 6 languages. Notable among them, besides Mussorgsky's Boris and Verdi's Philip II, were Mephistopheles in Gounod's "Faust," several Wagner roles -- including Hagen in "Gotterdammerung" and King Marke in "Tristan und Isolde" -- and perhaps most curiously in the context of his other characters, the title role in Handel's "Giulio Cesare."
        Mr. Christoff was born in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, on May 18, 1914, and earned a degree in law before he began studying music seriously. During his student years, he was a member of the Gusla Choir, and in 1941, when King Boris of Bulgaria heard him as a soloist with the ensemble, he was given a private stipend to support vocal studies in Italy. He went to Rome to work with the bass Riccardo Stracciari, and also studied voice in Salzburg.
        At the end of World War II, Mr. Christoff was interned in a displaced persons camp, and upon his release he returned to Rome. He married there -- his wife, Franca, is his only survivor -- and made the city his home. He made his professional concert debut there in 1946 as a soloist with the Academy of St. Cecilia Orchestra, and he made his operatic debut the same year, as Colline in "La Boheme" in a regional Italian house.
        In 1947 he sang Pimen in "Boris Godunov" in Rome and at La Scala in Milan, and three years later Covent Garden engaged him to sing the work's title role. Boris soon became a signature role for him. He recorded it twice, and it was the vehicle for his American debut, with the San Francisco Opera in 1956.  Denied a U.S. Visa
        That American debut was delayed by six years because of visa problems. Mr. Christoff had been signed by the Metropolitan Opera to sing Philip in "Don Carlo" in 1950, but apparently because he had performed at a concert presented by the Italian-Soviet Society in Rome in 1947, the United States Government would not allow him into the country. Mr. Christoff told interviewers at the time that he had no interest in politics. But although his managers continued filing for visas and American critics traveling abroad regularly wrote that the American audience was missing one of the great voices of the time, it was six years before Mr. Christoff was allowed to sing here.
        As it turned out, although he gave performances in San Francisco and Chicago, he never sang at the Met. He made his New York debut in 1958 in the title role of Rossini's "Mose in Egitto" with the American Opera Society at Carnegie Hall and in 1960 sang scenes there from "Boris" with the Symphony of the Air. His appearances in New York were scarce during his prime, but in 1980 he returned to give a Carnegie Hall recital.
        "The voice, always on the dry side, has held up remarkably well," Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times on that occasion. "It seemed actually to have a slightly less hollow ring to it, and the well-remembered power and gripping expressiveness have been retained. It is an utterly distinctive sound, at the service of one of the most fiercely intense artists this listener has ever heard in person."
        Because his appearances in the United States were comparatively few, he is best known to Americans through his recordings, many of which have been reissued on compact disk in recent years. Among the best of these are his recording of "Boris Godunov" with the Paris Conservatory Orchestra, the complete Mussorgsky songs, Verdi's "Simon Boccanegra" and Gounod's "Faust," all on Angel Records.
      