
        John Pico John, the milliner known as Mr. John, died on Friday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 91.
        He died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, said his lawyer, Fred Rogge.
        In the 1940's and 1950's, the name Mr. John was as famous in the world of hats as Christian Dior was in the realm of haute couture. At a time when other milliners were piling on flowers, feathers and tulle, Mr. John was stripping hats naked, relying on pure shape for effect. He made closefitting cloches, towering toques and wide-brimmed picture hats, often adding a face-hugging veil dotted with a single rhinestone, as if to signify a beauty mark. A review of his fall collection in 1956 in The New York Times referred to him as "a gifted designer and skilled workman who produces some of the most original, wearable, flattering hats to be seen anywhere." Work Featured in Films
        His clients included stars of film, stage, opera and the society pages. Among the fashionable women who wore his designs were the Duchess of Windsor, Gloria Swanson, Gloria Vanderbilt, Lauren Bacall, Joan Crawford and Rosalind Russell. His hats were worn by Vivien Leigh in "Gone With the Wind," by Marlene Dietrich in "Shanghai Express," by Greta Garbo in "The Painted Veil" and by Marilyn Monroe in "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes."
        Many of the facts of Mr. John's early life are hard to verify because he constantly told different stories, changing both the date and the place of his birth. He was born either March 13th or 14th, probably in 1902, somewhere in Germany to Rose and Henry Harberger and moved to this country as a child with his parents, who settled in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        His mother, under the name Madame Laurel, ran a millinery shop in Manhattan where he worked briefly before forming a partnership in 1928 with Frederic Hirst to make hats under the John-Frederics label. Complaining that people kept spelling his name Hamburger, he changed it legally to John Frederics. After breaking up with Mr. Hirst in 1948, he opened the Mr. John salon in a town house at 53 East 57th Street and changed his name again, to John P. John. He was soon designing accessories, women's clothing and furs, but was still best known for his hats.
        With the decline in the popularity of hats, the business closed in 1970, brought down by what Mr. John described acidly as "orthopedic hairdos and french fried curls." However, he continued to design for private clients until about a year ago.
        Mr. John is survived by a sister, Margaret Hayman, of Port Chester, N.Y.
      