
        John Crosby Brown Moore, the architect and designer of many university buildings, churches and civic institutions, died on Tuesday at the North Hill retirement home in Needham, Mass. He was 96.
        Mr. Moore was a founding partner of Moore & Hutchins, Manhattan architects, in 1937, remaining active in the firm until his retirement in 1972. The firm became a leader in designing campuses and schools, including buildings for Goucher College, the State University at Binghamton, N.Y., the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University, Princeton University and St. Lawrence University.
        He and his partner, Robert S. Hutchins, also designed the United States Military Cemetery and Memorial at Carthage, Tunisia, after World War II. President of Fine Arts Federation
        In 1961, Mr. Moore was named to a permanent committee of architects and engineers to advise the New York Board of Education on the construction and design of schools. He was elected president of the Fine Arts Federation of New York in 1959.
        Early in his career, Mr. Moore was appointed to the faculty of Columbia's school of architecture, as part of a plan to make the study of design "a creative and living art." He taught design at Columbia from 1936 to 1944.
        He was the author of the chapter on colleges and universities in the comprehensive architectural guide "The Forms and Functions of 20th-Century Architecture" (Columbia University Press, 1952).
        He was born in Providence, R.I., and graduated from Harvard College in 1920. He received a diploma in architecture at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris in 1927.
        In World War I, he served with the American Ambulance Service in France and was commissioned as a second lieutenant with the American Expeditionary Force.
        Mr. Moore was awarded the Legion of Honor, with the rank of Chevalier, by France in 1952. He was also a fellow of the American Institute of Architects and an associate of the National Academy of Design.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sandys M. Bureau of Cambridge, Mass.; a sister, Dr. Dorothea Moore Burkhardt of Needham, and three granddaughters.
      