
        George S. Lewis, who led the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects to a high-profile role in civic debates, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said a friend, Eugenie Cowan Havemeyer.
        Mr. Lewis was executive director of the architectural group from 1969 to 1986. Until his recent hospitalization, Mr. Lewis was a member of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, on which he had served since 1987.
        With the courteousness of a schoolboy, Mr. Lewis mixed a prickly tenacity on matters of principle. In articulating strong positions on any number of controversial issues, he never hewed to predictable ideology.
        He spoke in favor of the Westway highway along the Hudson River in Manhattan in 1980, for example, but condemned the process by which the New York Coliseum site at Columbus Circle was awarded to private developers in 1985. A Lone Dissenting Voice
        Although deeply involved in preservation, he described himself as "very wary of any tendency of the landmarks commission to become a design review board." Sometimes, his was the lone vote cast against a designation.
        George Sherman Lewis was born May 3, 1916, in Holyoke, Mass. He attended the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., received a bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1938 and a master's degree in architecture from the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1942.
        During World War II, he was a captain in the Army's 333d Engineer Special Service Regiment in Europe.
        After the war, he worked for the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and then briefly for Marcel Breuer before joining the United Nations Planning Office at Harrison & Abramovitz in 1948, where he contributed to the design of the Secretariat building.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, he practiced at Voorhees, Walker, Smith & Smith and Lewis, Prentice & Chan. His most prominent project was the Field House of the Hotchkiss School, completed in 1966. He also designed several private homes in Connecticut.
        He taught at Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art from 1951 to 1955 and at Columbia University from 1963 to 1970. A Role in Public Planning
        When Mr. Lewis became executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, he set out, in his own words, to "bring its particular expertise to bear in public debate over planning, housing and preservation issues" -- no matter how those stands might affect individual members.
        That meant taking positions against plans for an office tower on the site of the Community House of St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church at Park Avenue and 50th Street and an apartment tower over the New-York Historical Society, on Central Park West between 76th and 77th Streets.
        Mr. Lewis also spoke out against a 1986 plan to redesign City Hall Park, since it did not entirely eliminate parking spaces. "To propose that rows of automobiles be parked close to City Hall's doorstep is to treat it as though it were a suburban office building," he said.
        In his honor, the architects' organization established the George S. Lewis Award in 1986. The 1993 award is to be presented on Tuesday to Margot Gayle, a longtime preservationist most closely identified with cast-iron architecture.
        Mr. Lewis's wife, Marianna Olmstead, died in 1983.
      