
        Dr. Shih-Chun Wang, a neuroscientist and pharmacology professor at Columbia University, died on Sunday at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Tenafly.
        The cause was septic shock, Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital said yesterday when it reported his death.
        A faculty member of Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons, Professor Wang was a member of the Department of Physiology from 1941 to 1956 and of the Department of Pharmacology after that. He retired in 1978 as the Gustavus A. Pfeiffer Professor of Pharmacology, the first to hold that endowed chair.
        His career was in neuroscientific research and biomedical education. He was best known for shedding light on the mechanisms by which the brain regulates functions like blood circulation, breathing, temperature control and bodily reactions to motion.
        His research led to a fundamental understanding of motion sickness and the development of drugs to prevent vomiting and other adverse reactions. It also opened windows on other kinds of deviations from normal functions and led to effective counter measures, like drug therapy for hypertension. Taught Thousands
        Professor Wang taught thousands of students in medicine and dentistry and served as a role model for junior colleagues. He trained many scientists and academic physicians who now are professors and department chairmen throughout this country and overseas.
        "Over many years," Dr. Brian F. Hoffman, chairman of the Department of Pharmacology, said yesterday, "Dr. Wang's research on the physiology and pharmacology of the mammalian central nervous system made innumerable seminal contributions to the understanding of the localization and function of specific components of the brain and spinal cord."
        Professor Wang was born in Tientsin, China, and received his M.D. at Beijing Union Medical College. A Rockefeller Foundation fellowship brought him to the United States in 1937 for advanced studies at the Institute of Neurology at Northwestern University, where he earned his Ph.D. in 1940.
        Professor Wang is survived by his wife, the former Mamie Kwoh; two daughters, Phyllis Wise, chairman of physiology at the University of Kentucky, and Nancy Wilcox of Ridgefield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      