
        James Hunt, the British driver who won the 1976 Formula One world championship and was one of the last of the breed of drivers who made it their business to have as much fun outside the car as in it, died in London yesterday. He was 45.
        Mr. Hunt died of a heart attack, his family said.
        When Mr. Hunt broke into international Formula One racing in 1973, his good looks, glib sense of humor and flowing blond hair seemed to fit that era's stereotype of the glamorous international race driver.
        "I think that James was a very happy and very outspoken driver," Emerson Fittipaldi of Brazil, the world champion who raced against Mr. Hunt in the 1970's, said yesterday. Mr. Fittipaldi, who won the Indianapolis 500 last month, remembered Mr. Hunt as someone who was always in the company of celebrities.
        Said Mario Andretti, who also raced against him: "He got quite a bit out of life." .  'Always Very Aggressive'
        But the flamboyant image, Mr. Fittipaldi and Andretti pointed out, shouldn't overshadow Mr. Hunt's skill as a driver. "He was a great champion," Mr. Fittipaldi said. "He was always very aggressive."
        That aggression, along with his name's similarity to a British euphemism for an accident, earned him the nickname Hunt the Shunt early in his career.
        Mr. Hunt, who started 92 races during his seven seasons in Formula One, had 10 victories, including the 1976 and 1977 United States Grand Prix in Watkins Glen, N.Y.
        He made his Formula One debut in 1973, driving for a team formed by Lord Alexander Hesketh, a British sportsman. The team's trademark, a Teddy bear in a crash helmet, symbolized its tongue-in-cheek approach to the sport.
        In 1975, driving a Hesketh Ford, he won his first Formula One event, the Dutch Grand Prix.
        When Mr. Fittipaldi left the powerful McLaren team in 1976, Mr. Hunt was hired to replace him. He won six races that year and edged Niki Lauda of Austria by 1 point, the equivalent of a sixth-place finish in any one race. Tainted Championship
        Mr. Hunt's title wasn't always accorded the prestige it deserved because Mr. Lauda had suffered severe injuries in a crash during the German Grand Prix that year. Although he made a courageous comeback six weeks later, Mr. Lauda did not start two races.
        The following season, Mr. Hunt won three races for McLaren. He left the team after a disappointing 1978 season, and raced one more year before retiring.
        Mr. Hunt had worked as a commentator for the British Broadcasting Corporation since 1980, and he was known for his acerbic assessments of drivers.
        "I saw him not too long ago and he was exceptionally fit," said Stirling Moss, a former race driver. "He had given up smoking, given up drinking. He was riding a bicycle and training."
        Mr. Hunt is survived by two children -- Tom, 7, and Freddie, 5 -- both from his second wife, Sarah.
      