
        Jules Jerome Bond, a retired executive at the Voice of America and a noted author of cookbooks, died on June 22 at his home in Peconic, L.I. He was 84.
        The cause was injuries suffered from a fall, said one of his nephews, Roy Hemmingway of Portland, Ore.
        Before retiring from the Voice of America in 1970, Mr. Bond had gained a reputation as a food authority and had written "The Outdoor Cookbook" (Pocket Books, 1963).
        He is best known for "The International Gourmet Cookbook," (Leon Amiel, 1979) a compilation of recipes from around the world taken from the "Cuisine I Love" series of books.
        "He had the ability to make things simple, which appealed even to people who have no feel for cooking," said William Konecky, a friend and publisher of the 13 books in the "Cuisine I Love" series. Conducted Cooking Classes
        His last work was as editor of "The Metropolitan Opera Cookbook," (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, 1988), a collection of photographs and recipes of opera stars, with heavy emphasis on Hungarian and Italian cuisine.
        Besides his books, he wrote regularly on food for The Southampton Press and The Suffolk Times. He also gave classes on provincial cooking.
        Born in Vienna, he grew up in Paris and graduated from the University of Vienna. He first came to New York in 1935, working as a correspondent for two Austrian newspapers owned by his father.
        During World War II, he served with the Psychological Warfare Detachment of the United States Army in Europe, with the rank of Second lieutenant. Among his duties, he directed the allies' main news service on Radio Luxembourg and edited a German language newspaper dropped behind enemy lines.
        After the war, he joined V.O.A., serving as an editor and commentator for the Austrian desk and finally as program officer for the Near East and Africa.
        His wife, the former Marjory Hyde of New York, died in 1991. A previous marriage to Lelia Lee Roberts ended in divorce in 1962.
        Besides Mr. Hemmingway, he is survived by another nephew, David Hemmingway of Minneapolis, and a niece, Dr. Susan Carlyle of Houston.
      