
        Arthur H. Kunz, a government planner who helped guide Long Island's development as one of the nation's largest suburban areas, died on Saturday at a hospital in Smithtown, L.I., where he lived. He was 59.
        His family said he died of a heart attack after making a good recovery from a transplant of a kidney donated by his daughter six weeks ago.
        Mr. Kunz was Suffolk County's Planning Commissioner and the planning coordinator of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. In his 35-year career, he also served as the chief planner for neighboring Nassau County. Sought a Balance
        As the region's population grew to nearly three million, Mr. Kunz sought to balance the pressures for development with the need for preservation. He analyzed economic, demographic, environmental, transportation and housing trends and helped formulate government responses.
        He became an expert on such diverse topics as duck farms, property taxes, birth rates, North Shore estates, multiplex movie theaters, water supply, golf courses, real-estate prices, sewers, hurricane patterns, car ownership and shopping malls.
        Serving under Republican and Democratic administrations in both counties, he gained a reputation as a nonpartisan professional. Politicians did not always follow his advice. He made unpopular recommendations, for example, for more apartment zoning and public housing.
        Assessing last winter's severe beach erosion, he said, "My guess is a lot more houses are going to fall, and we can't stop that." He opposed proposals to spend public money to save "houses that shouldn't be there." Long Island Native
        Mr. Kunz was born in Floral Park, L.I., and grew up in Hempstead, L.I. At Virginia Polytechnic Institute, he earned a bachelor's degree and a master's in architecture, with a specialization in planning.
        Early in his career he met Lee E. Koppelman, who became his mentor. Mr. Koppelman preceded Mr. Kunz as Suffolk County Planning Commissioner and is now executive director of the regional planning board.
        Survivivors include his mother, Lydia Juckes of Boynton Beach, Fla.; his wife of nearly 35 years, the former Sharon White; a son, Scott of Lake Grove, L.I.; a daughter, Tracey Femminella of Coram, L.I., and a sister, Linda Ann Kunz of Manhattan.
      