
        Janos Scholz, a cellist, art collector and benefactor of the Pierpont Morgan Library, died Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 89 and lived on the upper East Side.
        The cause of death was heart failure after a stroke, said his wife, the former Helen Marshall Schelling.
        One evening in 1977, the Hungarian-born Mr. Scholz gave a cello recital at the Pierpont Morgan Library and followed it with the announcement that he was giving it his collection of Italian drawings.
        The library's director at the time, Charles Ryskamp, said then that the Scholz collection was "certainly the finest private collection of Italian drawings in America and one of the finest anywhere in the world." 'A Ubiquitous Curiosity'
        The collection is made up of more than 1,500 works that date from the late 14th century through the 18th century, including examples by Leonardo, Raphael, Titian and Bellini.
        John Russell, an art critic for The New York Times, wrote in 1977: "The Scholz holdings betray a ubiquitous curiosity, no matter whether the domain in question is already well beaten -- the Bellini family (See Gentile's wonderstruck "Camel"), the Tiepolo family, the Guardi family -- or entirely unknown."
        Mr. Russell also observed that Mr. Scholz had been fortunate in beginning "to collect at a time when a Durer drawing could turn up in a bookstore and be offered to him (so he tells us) for the price of a good dinner."
        Mr. Scholz bought his first drawing in 1935, 25 years before interest in drawings began to boom. He made that purchase in Mexico, after coming to the United States from his native land in 1933. 'A Suitcase and a Cello'
        He recalled in 1973 that he had arrived then in the United States as a touring concert musician "with nothing but a suitcase and a cello," and he said that he always wanted his collection to stay in New York because he had come to feel he was a New Yorker.
        He also collected bronzes, rare books, musical instruments and drawings of Italian baroque stage designs.
        As a cellist, Mr. Scholz performed early in his career with the Roth Quartet, whose members were all Hungarians, and later with various other groups and on his own. When he gave a cello recital at Town Hall in 1940, the critic Olin Downes in The New York Times praised "the beauty of his tone, his musicianship, and the fine proportions of his interpretations."
        Mr. Scholz was born in Sopron in western Hungary and received a diploma from the Hungarian Academy of Music in Budapest. In 1932, he joined the Roth Quartet, which toured widely. When the group arrived in the United States in 1933, the rise of Fascism in Europe led its members to obtain United States citizenship, and he took up residence in Manhattan.
        Mr. Scholz also donated works of art to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and other museums.
        He taught graduate courses on the history of Italian drawing for some years at Columbia University and New York University.
        Mr. Scholz's 1937 marriage to Anne Bigelow Rosen ended in divorce. In 1955 he married Mrs. Schelling, who was the widow of Ernest Schelling, a conductor and composer.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, John Bigelow Scholz of Rockland, Me., and Christopher Scholz of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      