
        Anthony Standen, a chemist and an author of irreverent books about fellow scientists, died on Tuesday at the Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 86 and lived in South Kent, Conn.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        To other chemists, Mr. Standen was familiar as the executive editor of the 22-volume second edition of the Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology (John Wiley & Sons). This work went on for more than 20 years until he retired in 1971.
        But he was best known as the author of "Science Is a Sacred Cow" (Dutton, 1950), which was in print as a paperback for 40 years. When it first appeared, it drew praise from none other than Albert Einstein, and most reviewers applauded as well. Inflated Egos
        Mr. Standen's point was that scientists, and especially teachers of science, tended to have inflated egos, certain of their superior wisdom and virtue. In reality, he asserted, they are mostly dull and pompous and should by laughed at now and then. Unfortunately in his view, the general public stood in awe of them even when they talked Latinized nonsense.
        The author seemed impressed only by physicists, because he found that they usually knew what they were talking about. When he wrote "Science Is a Sacred Cow," Mr. Standen was associated with the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute editing the encyclopedia.
        Born in Britain, Mr. Standen received a degree in chemistry from Oxford University and studied chemical engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He also held an advanced degree in entomology, the branch of zoology that deals with insects, from the University of New Hampshire.
        For a time he worked for private industry as an insect controller in South America. From this experience grew "Insect Invaders" (Houghton Mifflin, 1943), which reviewers called a handbook for insect haters.
        It was an indictment of insects as harmful to humans, beasts and crops from someone with a passion for insecticides that slay insects wholesale. A brief and unsentimental section on "Good Insects" dealt mainly with silkworms and bees.
        After his retirement, Mr. Standen was a volunteer teacher in public schools and with a children's center. He also carried on an extensive correspondence on scientific subjects.
        Mr. Standen is survived by his wife, the former Lisl Collmers; two sons, Sumner A., of London, and Julian O., of San Francisco; a sister, Edith A. Standen of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      