
        Richard O. Dowling, an investment banker and philanthropist who helped finance a computerized reading and writing program for every public school in Mississippi, died on Thursday at a hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 62 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Quogue, L.I.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        In 1990 Mr. Dowling and his friend Richard Riordan, who was recently elected the Mayor of Los Angeles, donated $7 million for the installation of computers and programs in kindergartens and first grades throughout Mississippi.
        That state was chosen because a third of its adults are functionally illiterate. The goal of the project, which uses an IBM program called Writing to Read, is to teach every youngster to read and write by the end of first grade. Proponents hope it will become a national model.
        His other charitable activities included the Rord Foundation, which he created in 1987 to help the mentally ill, the homeless and educational causes. He was a longtime director and building committee chairman of the Fountain House Foundation.
        He also served on the boards of Phoenix House, the Riordan Foundation, the National Alliance to End Homelessness, the Gregorian University Foundation, the Catholic University Foundation, Brunswick School, Greenwich Academy and the Ireland Fund.
        At his death Mr. Dowling was the chairman of the Hermes Investment Corporation in Greenwich. His career in investment banking began in Manhattan at the First Boston Corporation. Later he joined F. Eberstadt & Company, then became a partner in N. Salgo & Company.
        In recent years he was also the chief executive and chief shareholder of Pan Pacific Fisheries, chairman and chief executive of California Home Brands Holdings, a food company, and a board and executive committee member of International Proteins Corporation.
        Mr. Dowling was born in Manhattan and grew up in New Rochelle. After graduating from Georgetown University, he served as a gunnery officer in the United States Navy in the Mediterranean in the early 1950's.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Janet Isbell; four daughters, Susanne Magee of Carrigaholt, Ireland, Elisa K. Dowling of Putney, Vt., Anne E. and Kathleen I. Dowling, both of Greenwich and Quogue; two sons, Robert M. of Pleasantville, N.Y., and William O. of Greenwich and Quogue; his mother, Evelyn, of New Rochelle; a sister, Kathleen Smith of Atlanta, and three grandchildren.
      