
        Leo Pfeffer, a well-known constitutional lawyer who had been on the staff of the American Jewish Congress and the faculty of Long Island University, died on Friday at Arden Hill Hospital in Goshen, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Middletown, N.Y.
        The cause was congestive heart failure following a hip injury suffered in a fall, said his daughter, Susan Beth Pfeffer.
        Mr. Pfeffer (prounounced FEFF-er) was with the American Jewish Congress from 1945 to 1964, became the director of its Commission on Law and Social Action in 1957 and served for a time as general counsel. After 1964, he served the Congress as special counsel and did legal work on behalf of other groups, including the Committee for Public Education and Religious Liberty.
        The Congress, which was founded in 1918, is a national Jewish organization. Its major concerns include two issues in which Mr. Pfeffer specialized: religious liberty and the separation of church and state.
        While he was with the Congress, Mr. Pfeffer argued cases before the Supreme Court and wrote numerous legal briefs. He represented Roy R. Torcaso, a notary public from Wheaton, Md., whose commission was withheld because he refused to take an oath declaring belief in God. Mr. Torcaso's case went to the Supreme Court, which ruled in 1961 that states could not compel officeholders to declare a belief in God. 'Religious Test' Struck Down
        In its ruling, which was unanimous, the Supreme Court struck down a provision of the Maryland Constitution on the ground that it was a "religious test for public office" that invaded the individual's right to religious freedom.
        The provision said: "No religious test ought ever to be required as a qualification for any office of profit or trust in this state, other than a declaration of belief in the existence of God."
        Mr. Pfeffer was a professor of political science at Long Island University from 1964 to 1980.
        He was born in Hungary, and his family came to New York when he was a small child. He grew up in Manhattan, graduated from City College in 1930, earned a law degree from New York University in 1933 and had a general law practice in Manhattan from 1933 to 1945.
        Mr. Pfeffer lectured at the New School from 1954 to 1958 and taught at Mount Holyoke College from 1958 to 1960 and at Yeshiva University in 1962 and 1963. He had honorary degrees from Hebrew Union College and Long Island University.
        In addition to his daughter, of Middletown, N.Y., he is survived by his wife, the former Freda Plotkin, to whom he was married in 1937; a son, Alan Israel Pfeffer of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., who teaches business law at Skidmore College, and two sisters, Rose Shilepsky of Aurora, N.Y., and Dorothy Bernstein of Seaford, N.Y.
      