
        Leonard F. McCollum, a philanthropist and oilman who built the Continental Oil Company into the integrated worldwide energy giant known as Conoco, died Sunday at his home in Houston. He was 91.
        He had a short illness, his family said.
        When Mr. McCollum -- known as Mr. Mc -- left Standard Oil to become president of Continental in 1947, he found a medium-sized oil company operating mainly in the Middle West and the Rocky Mountain states. It was known for its conservatism and had assets of $209 million and a net income of $31 million.
        Twenty-one years later, in 1968, he was chairman and Conoco's assets stood at $2.3 billion, net income was $203 million and its payroll totaled 32,000. He retired as chairman in 1972. Community Service
        After that, Mr. McCollum devoted himself to community service, saying he wanted to give back some of the good he had received. He was chairman of Baylor College of Medicine for 14 years.
        He was the first chairman of the People-to-People Health Foundation, whose floating HOPE hospital gave free medical treatment around the world. He also headed Project Orbis, which in 1981 turned a DC-8 into the "First Flying Eye Hospital."
        Project Orbis visited more than 60 countries to train eye doctors and treat more than 12,000 poor people. Mr. McCollum, a cattle breeder, said the idea came to him when one of his ranch hands had his sight restored with previously unobtainable treatment.
        He served with dozens of other civic, governmental, business and educational organizations around the world.
        Mr. McCollum was born on a small farm near Bradford, Tex. He stumbled into the oil business at the University of Texas, where he picked geology for a required science course. Fascinated, he became a geologist for the Humble Oil and Refining Company, a Houston affiliate of Standard Oil of New Jersey.
        He rose quickly in the ranks at Standard Oil of New Jersey -- now Exxon -- and was coordinator of the company's worldwide exploration and production activities.
        Mr. McCollum is survived by his wife, the former Elinor Searle Whitney; a son, L. Franklin Jr.; a daughter, Olive McCollum Jenney, all of Houston; a stepson, Cornelius S. Whitney of San Francisco; a sister, Macie Bell Midget of Donna, Tex.; five grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      