
        Gary M. Susnjara, a top marketing and advertising executive, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 53.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Susnjara was a former president of Saatchi & Saatchi North America, one of the world's largest advertising companies. At his death, he was the vice president in charge of marketing for the Sara Lee Corporation.
        In 1988, he served two months as the head of advertising for the Democratic Presidential campaign of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts. He quit amid reports of disorganization at the political headquarters and its failure to authorize the production and use of proposed commercials. From L'eggs to Popsicles
        Mr. Susnjara was known for his success in helping to conceive, design and market L'eggs as a reasonably priced pantyhose, uniquely packaged in plastic eggs and conveniently displayed at grocery and drug stores. Other accounts he handled included U.S. News & World Report, Molson's, Helene Curtis, General Mills, Royal Crown Cola and Popsicle.
        He was a leader in expanding into direct marketing, ethnic advertising and business-to-business communications.
        His advertising career started in 1967 at the Dancer Fitzgerald Sample agency, where he began as an account manager. He was promoted to vice president in 1972, senior vice president in 1974, president in 1982 and chairman in 1985. He was credited with helping to revitalize the agency.
        Through mergers in 1987, the company evolved into Saatchi & Saatchi North America, and he became the president and chief operating officer in charge of its business in the United States and Canada except the New York office. 'More Fun Things'
        Saying that "there are more fun things left to do in the world," he resigned in 1989 to form a consulting firm, the Ulysses Group, and then last year joined Sara Lee. His assignment was to help reorganize use of Sara Lee's brand name and label for its various food and clothing products around the world.
        He also had served as the chairman of the New York City Sports Commission and as a board member on the National Crime Prevention Council.
        Mr. Susnjara was born in New York City. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Villanova. He taught briefly at a preparatory school and at Villanova and Fordham Universities before entering advertising.
        He is survived by his wife of 30 years, the former Mary A. Pellicane, and two daughters, Stephanie, of Venice Beach, Calif., and Rosemary, of New York City.
      