
        Alexander E. Squadrilli, who helped millions of victims of war and natural disaster as the head of American and international refugee and relief programs, died on Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 86 and lived in Stamford.
        The cause of death was a stroke and its complications, his family said.
        Mr. Squadrilli's career started with the American Red Cross in the early 1940's. After World War II, he was in charge of refugee camps in Germany and the resettling of displaced persons. He later supervised aid to Palestinian refugees and was instrumental in founding the United Nations Disaster Relief Office.
        As a district director of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, he was in charge of 85 refugee camps in Germany.
        From 1946 to 1948 he was also the director of Displaced Persons Operations for the United States Army in Germany and coordinated efforts with other countries, international organizations and private agencies.
        In 1948 he became the European coordinator for the United States Displaced Persons Commission, working with the State Department, military and immigration and health agencies to resettle more than 400,000 refugees in the United States.
        Rejoining the United Nations in the early 1950's, he became its Relief and Works Agency official in charge of more than 300,000 Arab refugees from Palestine and directed relief operations in the Gaza Strip.
        In the late 1960's and early 1970's, he worked for the United Nations Children's Fund in Geneva and founded the United Nations Disaster Relief Office to coordinate aid to victims of floods, earthquakes and other disasters. At one time he supervised programs at 60 disaster sites around the world, his family said. He retired in 1976.
        Mr. Squadrilli was also an art historian and collector. He discovered an uncatalogued landscape painting by Claude Lorrain in Egypt that was authenticated and is now in the Houston Museum of Fine Art.
        Mr. Squadrilli was born in Manhattan and grew up there and in Europe. He was educated at the University of Vienna, Heidelberg University and the University of California.
        He is survived by his wife of 40 years, the former Renata Corridi, and two daughters, Armanda Corridi Squadrilli of Manhattan and Beatrice Alexandra Forgione of Stamford.
      