
        Binay Ranjan Sen, whose horror at the famine deaths of nearly a million Bengalis inspired him to forge a United Nations campaign against world hunger, died on Thursday in Calcutta. He was 94.
        He died of bronchial pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Sen's career as a civil servant and diplomat for his native India included the posts of Ambassador to the United States and leader of the Indian delegation to the United Nations and representative to the Security Council.
        But his overriding concern was the survival of hundreds of millions of people in marginal conditions, whom he once described as "that huge portion of the human race that lives one drought, one flood, one crop failure away from starvation."
        His mission of preventing hunger was set in 1942 when he served as the relief commissioner for Bengal, which was besieged by a typhoon, bombing by Japan and refugees from Burma. The next year he became the director general of food collection and distribution for all of India. Pressed for Priority
        The mass starvation and death haunted Mr. Sen, especially because corruption and disorganization needlessly thwarted the delivery of food to those whose lives depended on it.
        He eventually pressed hunger to priority status in international affairs. He led the development of programs to build food reserves and organize distribution systems to prevent famine.
        In 1956 he won the post of Director General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and vowed to revitalize the agency. During his 11-year tenure, its budget and staff nearly quadrupled.
        In 1960, saying half the world's population was malnourished, he announced a Freedom from Hunger campaign. "Hunger is neither inevitable nor irremediable," he said. "It is within our power to bring this old affliction under control."
        The program did not immediately catch on, but eventually won United Nations endorsement.
        He gathered delegates from more than 100 countries for the World Food Congress in 1963. They signed a unanimous declaration for the human right of freedom from hunger, and outlined a program to achieve it.
        He dealt with thorny issues of agricultural technology, population control, financing, economic development and international aid. Born in East Bengal
        Mr. Sen was born in East Bengal, now Bangladesh. After graduating from Calcutta and Oxford Universities, he joined the Indian civil service in 1922, under British rule.
        When India gained independence in 1947, he was named Ambassador to Washington and over the years also served as Ambassador to Japan, Mexico, Italy and Yugoslavia.
        He promoted India's policy of friendship with the United States. He sought aid for development and support of India's fledgling democracy, while also delicately steering a course of nonalignment in the cold war.
        His first wife died. He is survived by his second wife of 62 years, the former Chiroprova Chatterjee; four daughters, Krishna Kopell of Stanford, Calif., Urmila Olay of Madrid, and Aruna Roy and Nandini Sen, both of New Dehli; six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      