
        Jacob Burns, a Manhattan lawyer and businessman who gave millions of dollars to charitable causes, died on Sunday at his home in Atlantic Beach, L.I. He was 91 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Burns donated millions to Yeshiva University for its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, Sy Syms School of Business and Albert Einstein School of Medicine.
        He was board chairman emeritus of the Cardozo School and a founder of the Einstein School. He also made large gifts to WNET-TV, George Washington University, B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation and other causes.
        Mr. Burns headed a family drug company that was a pioneer in the development of the vitamin industry. Was Director of Revlon
        U.S. Vitamin and Pharmaceutical Corporation, started by his three older brothers, was granted patents for gelatin vitamin capsules and pediatric liquid vitamins and was the first to produce them commercially. He was chairman when the company merged with Revlon in 1966, then served as a director of Revlon for 20 years.
        As a lawyer, he specialized in corporate, estate and trust cases and was active in professional organizations.
        He was vice chairman of the committee on character and fitness for the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court. He was a director of the New York County Lawyers Association and chairman of its discipline and membership committees.
        He served on the board of the Metropolitan Opera Association. He was also an accomplished amateur oil painter.
        Mr. Burns was born in Russia and at age 11 left with his family to escape the anti-Jewish pogroms. He earned his bachelor's and law degrees at George Washington University.
        He was married for 56 years to the former Faye Himmelstein, who is deceased.
        His survivors are his wife of nine years, the former Paula Leipner; a son, George, of Boynton Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Rosalie Burns-Goldberg of Bala Cynwyd, Pa.; a stepdaughter, Louise Arias of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      