
        J. Gus Liebenow, professor emeritus of political science at Indiana University and an authority on African societies and politics, died on Monday in a hospital in Bloomington, Ind., where he lived. He was 68.
        Richard Gilbert, a spokesman for the university, said Professor Liebenow died in Bloomington Hospital after a long respiratory illness.
        The professor joined the faculty of Indiana University in 1958 and founded the university's African Studies Program in 1961, which he directed for 11 years. He also served as dean for research and advanced studies as well as vice president and dean for academic affairs on the Bloomington campus.
        In 1987, he was named Rudy Professor by the university trustees, who award the title for excellence. He retired in 1990.
        An expert on Liberia, Professor Liebenow testified on developments in the republic before several Congressional committees in the 1970's and 80's. On retirement, he received the first Lifetime Achievement Award of the Liberian Studies Association, a group of scholars from around the world.
        He was a prolific writer on African politics, education, history, agriculture and urbanization. Among his numerous books are "Liberia: The Evolution of Privilege" (Cornell University Press, 1969), "Liberia: The Quest for Democracy" (Indiana University Press, 1987) and "African Politics: Crises and Challenges" (Indiana University Press, 1986).
        Professor Liebenow was born in Berwyn, Ill. He graduated from the University of Illinois, where he received a master's degree in 1950. After being a Goodwin Fellow at Harvard University in 1951-52, he earned a Ph.D. in political science at Northwestern University in 1955.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Beverly Bellis; two daughters, Diane Liebenow Gray Chicago and Debra Liebenow Daly of Tampa, Fla.; two sons, Jay Stanton Liebenow of Washington and John Stuart Liebenow of Columbus, Ind.; two sisters, Miki Montgomery and Gladys Sturnfield, and a brother, Gil Liebenow, all of the Chicago area, and eight grandchildren.
      