
        Gusti Huber, a leading Viennese actress before World War II who continued her successful stage and film career in this country, died on Monday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78.
        The family said the cause was heart failure.
        Ms. Huber made her American debut in 1952 in "Flight Into Egypt," the story of an Austrian refugee family struggling to get to America, directed by Elia Kazan. In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote that Ms. Huber "brings a grave, sensitive beauty to the character and describes with rare perception the excitement and the pain of a woman whose responsibilities are beyond human strength." Portrayed Anne Frank's Mother
        She is best known in this country for her portrayal of Edith Frank in the Broadway production of "The Diary of Anne Frank," which won the Pulitzer Prize and Critics Circle Award in 1956. "Gusti Huber gives a superbly controlled performance as the patient mother who is close to hysteria," wrote Mr. Atkinson.
        Ms. Huber also won praise for her performance in George Stevens's 1959 film version of the Anne Frank story.  After retiring from acting in 1961, she lectured in New York area high schools on the legacy of Anne Frank, the Jewish girl who hid from the Nazis in a garret in Amsterdam and who died in a concentration camp shortly before the end of World War II..
        While still a student at the Academy for Music and Representative Art in Vienna, Ms. Huber began her acting career in 1929 at the Deutsches Volkstheatre. Joining the Schauspielhaus in Zurich, she played more than 180 roles in a five-year period.
        After the liberation of Austria in World War II, she joined a company entertaining American troops. She met and married Joseph Besch, a United States Army captain and former newspaperman.
        She is survived by her husband of 47 years; three daughters, Christiana MacDonald of Paris, and Bibi Besch and Drea B. Gillogly, both of Los Angeles; a son, Andrew F. Besch of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      