
        Frances Ruth Grant, who spent her life opposing dictatorships and promoting human rights in the Americas, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 96.
        Miss Grant's dedication to Latin American culture, art and human rights began in her childhood. The daughter of a pioneer of New Mexico's statehood, she was born and raised in the remote pueblo of Abiquiu in the foothills of the Valle Grande mountains. It was there that she absorbed the atmosphere of Hispanic-American culture.
        She was educated at Barnard College and graduated from Columbia University's School of Journalism in 1918. She also received extensive tutoring in economics, political science, music and the arts. A Museum Founder
        She was a founder in 1923 of the Nicholas Roerich Museum in Manhattan, under whose auspices she went to the Far East and wrote about the philosophies and cultures of India and Tibet. She served as a vice president of the museum until 1937.
        Miss Grant first visited Latin America in 1929 and after that devoted most of her energy to the republics of the hemisphere. She lectured at virtually all of its universities and centers of learning and started some of the first cultural interchanges, including exhibitions, musical programs and public forums.
        Her work was primarily responsible for the Roerich Pact, an inter-American agreement for the preservation of cultural sites signed at the White House by 21 republics in 1935. She founded the Pan American Women's Association in 1930 and the Inter-American Association for Democracy and Freedom in 1950 and headed both of them into her late 80's. A Journal Editor
        From 1951 until the mid-1980's, she edited the English and Spanish editions of Hemispherica, a journal published by the Inter-American Association. For this she received a special citation in 1982 at Columbia University from the trustees of the annual Maria Moors Cabot prizes in inter-American journalism.
        Recognized as a leader in the defense of civil and politcal liberties, she was a past chairman of the Latin American section and secretary of the International League for Human Rights. The league is a nongovernmental agency accredited by the United Nations whose predecessors date back to the Dreyfus affair in France nearly a century ago.
        Jose Figueres Ferrer, then the President of Costa Rica and himself a resolute champion of democracy, paid tribute to Miss Grant in a public address in New York in 1951. He called her "the greatest fighter for democracy and human rights in the hemisphere."
      