
        Dr. Harry Wallerstein, who originated a type of blood transfusion that saved the lives of countless newborn infants, died on Saturday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Mount Vernon.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Wallerstein and a colleague, Dr. Walter Levy, performed the first exchange transfusion in 1945. The procedure replaces the infant's blood and makes possible the survival of babies born to parents whose blood is Rh incompatible.
        Until 1940, it was unknown why some couples produced stillborn babies and infants doomed within days by a mystery disease known as "poison blood." Then the Rh factor was discovered and with it the knowledge that if a mother was Rh negative and the father positive the odds were that their second and later children would die.
        There were many attempts to find a cure. But it was only when Dr. Wallerstein and Dr. Levy performed their complete exchange transfusion that the condition was almost totally remedied. The procedure is now used routinely in hospitals here and abroad, often by the hundreds of physicians trained by Dr. Wallerstein. Dr. Levy died before Dr. Wallerstein. An Authority on Leukemia
        A hematologist, Dr. Wallerstein was involved in early leukemia research and became an authority on the disease. He was also a leading figure in the movement to establish blood banks in the early 1930's.
        A native of New York City, he graduated from George Washington University, where he also received his medical degree. In the mid-1930's he became associated with Jewish Memorial Hospital in Washington Heights. He was its director of hematology and pathology until it went bankrupt in 1983.
        His other associations over those years included Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, Morrisania Hospital and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, where he lectured on pathology. He was a member of the Blood Bank and Transfusion advisory board for the New York City Board of Health.
        He belonged to many professional organizations, including the International Society of Hematology, which he founded, and contributed articles on his specialty to professional journals.
        As a philanthropist, he was vice president of the Jacob M. Wallerstein Foundation for Medical Research established by his father, a businessman. One of his beneficiaries was New York University Medical Center, which named its Harry and Gussie Wallerstein Hematology Laboratories to honor him and his wife of 67 years, the former Gussie Arnold.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Wallerstein is survived by two daughters, Sally Sedler of Mount Vernon and Caryl Sands of Rye Brook, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      