
        Hector Lavoe, one of the great singers in salsa, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 46.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his record company said.
        Mr. Lavoe was an incandescent singer, an improviser who used a boyish sound to impart passion. His voice, high and pure, turned the most banal lyrics into pleas, and when he improvised he moved from clipped, abrupt rhythms to a graceful float that made his singing extraordinarily beautiful. His sound and his style became the foundation on which many future salsa singers built.
        Mr. Lavoe, whose original name was Hector Perez, was born in Puerto Rico and was brought to the United States at age 6. He first found work as a singer and trombonist with Johnny Pacheco and the Orchestra New Yorkers and then formed a group with the trombonist Willie Colon in 1966 to create one of the most important bands in salsa. Helped Change Latin Music
        With Mr. Colon, he began a series of recordings for the Fania label that radicalized Latin music, making it more topical and political than before, turning it away from simple themes of romance. One of his hits was "Mi Gente" (My People), written by Mr. Pacheco and taken as an anthem of Hispanic pride. The band also tried all sorts of harmonic and rhythmic experimentation, borrowing rhythms from Africa and harmonies from jazz and pop music.
        By 1974, Mr. Lavoe had taken over the Colon band and expanded it. He continued to turn out hits, even incorporating religious themes in his music. He performed with the Fania All Stars in 1975, and continued his collaborations with Mr. Colon. He is generally regarded as the most gifted of all the singers who flourished during the salsa boom of the 1970's. Setbacks and Comebacks
        At the height of his popularity, Mr. Lavoe began suffering personal problems that led to extended absences from the music business. He attempted suicide in 1988, after his teen-age son was murdered.
        But Mr. Lavoe had a series of comebacks as well, including an album, "Comedia," in 1978, that is considered one of his best. He continued recording into the 1980's and was nominated for a Grammy Award in 1988 for his recording "Lavoe Strikes Back." Two weeks ago, Fania released a two-CD set of his best recordings.
        He is survived by his wife, Pucci, and a daughter.
      