
        Joseph S. Gruss, a financier and philanthropist who supported Jewish education and other Jewish causes, died on Saturday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        The cause of death was heart failure and he had been in declining health, said his son-in-law, Kenneth Lipper.
        Mr. Gruss -- his name is pronounced "Groos" -- made a fortune in the oil and gas industries as well as on Wall Street after fleeing Poland to escape Nazis.
        Mr. Lipper, an investment banker and a former New York City deputy mayor, estimated that Mr. Gruss's philanthropic donations over the years totaled more than $300 million. He once said it was his greatest pleasure "to give to charity with a warm hand."
        Mr. Gruss sometimes gave with warm humor, too. Some years ago, he attended a bar mitzvah for students at Be'er Hagolah Institute, a Jewish school in Brooklyn for Russian-born children. He asked Pearl Kaufman, the school's director, what he could buy the boys as a present.
        She boldly suggested that they would like a new building for the school. Mr. Gruss said with a smile, in Yiddish, "I'm talking about a button, and she's talking about a garment." He paid for much of the construction of a new building.
        The son of a grain merchant, Joseph Saul Gruss was born in Lvov -- which is now called Lviv and is in Ukraine -- graduated from secondary school there and attended a business school in Poland. He married Caroline Zelaznik, a lawyer, in the 30's, and the couple came to the United States in 1939. Relatives who stayed in Poland fell victim to the Nazis. Oil and Gas Development
        From the 1950's to the 1970's, Mr. Gruss was active in oil and gas exploration and development, chiefly in Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming and West Virginia. After World War II, he founded a Wall Street firm, Gruss & Company, whose main activities have been handling mergers, particularly in the oil and gas industries, and arbitrage.
        He became heavily involved in Jewish philanthropies beginning in the early 1970's, and he emphasized Jewish education, as Mr. Lipper put it, "because he believed that the future of the Jewish people lay with its children, that an educated child was the most powerful instrument of its rebirth."
        Mrs. Gruss died in 1987.
        Mr. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin David Gruss; a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Gruss Lipper, and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Gruss is to be buried with his wife on the Mount of Olives in Israel.
      