
        Henry Root Stern Jr., a former New York State Insurance Superintendent and trial attorney, died on July 7 at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 80 and lived in Glen Cove.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, the former Sarah Hamlin.
        Mr. Stern was appointed by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1964 to the senior post in the Insurance Department, which regulates insurance companies operating in the state and handles policyholders' complaints. During his tenure, the state for the first time authorized Group Health Insurance to draw up a hospital insurance plan in competition with Blue Cross.
        When his term as superintendent expired in 1967, Mr. Stern joined the Manhattan law firm, now known as Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon, originally founded in 1869 by his grandfather, Simon Hunt Stern. He specialized in courtroom litigation and conducted a wide variety of trials until his retirement in 1981. Most Visible Case
        Mr. Stern's first public office was that of assistant district attorney of Nassau County from 1946 to 1952. He won praise for his fairness but lost his most visiblecase, the trial of a Long Island Rail Road motorman on charges of causing the Rockville Centre accident on Feb. 17, 1950, that took 32 lives. The motorman was acquitted.
        In 1952, Mr. Stern went into law practice with his father, Henry Root Stern Sr., a leading New York State Republican and former chairman of the State Board of Social Welfare. The Sterns formed the partnership of Sprague & Stern of Mineola, L.I., with J. Russel Sprague, former Nassau County Executive.
        Mr. Stern, who was born in New York City, followed in his father's footsteps, graduating from Yale University and, in 1942, from Columbia Law School. As a lieutenant in the Navy, he saw combat at the Normandy landing and was awarded the Bronze Star.
        He held numerous directorships, including the United States Life Insurance Company, the United States Life Income Fund and the Mental Health Association of Nassau County. He was also past director of the Nassau County Bar Association, member of the Ethics Committee of the Federal Bar Association and counsel to the Committee on Legal Aspects of Psychiatry of the American Psychiatric Association.
        Besides his wife of 55 years, surviving are: two sons, Geoffrey of Queens and Peter; a daughter, Elizabeth of Taos, N.M., and four grandchildren.
      