
        David Brian, an actor who starred in the 1949 film "Intruder in the Dust," appeared in movies opposite Joan Crawford and played the title role in "Mr. District Attorney" on television in 1954 and 1955, died on Thursday at his home in the Sherman Oaks section of Los Angeles. He was 82.
        He died of cancer and heart failure, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Brian's acting in "Intruder in the Dust" won praise from critics and from William Faulkner, who wrote the novel on which the movie was based. In it, Mr. Brian played a shrewd white Southern lawyer who involved himself in a case in which a black man was unjustly accused of murder. 'Flamingo Road' Debut
        A strapping New Yorker who once worked as a doorman, Mr. Brian made his film debut opposite Miss Crawford in "Flamingo Road" (1949), in which he was a political boss who began to worship her, as one sardonic critic put it, "simply because she can cook bacon crisp and mix a whiskey-sour."
        Mr. Brian acted in more than two dozen other films, including "The Damned Don't Cry" (1950), in which he was a modern big-time gang lord to whom Miss Crawford hitched her star. In that film he declaimed, two-dimensionally, "I like a woman who has brains, but when she also has spirit, that excites me."
        In "This Woman Is Dangerous" (1952), he was the vilely jealous boyfriend of Miss Crawford, who played a criminal who was going blind. Portrayed the Powerful
        Over the years, Mr. Brian repeatedly portrayed characters who were ruthless or powerful or both, including some villains in Westerns.
        He starred in the syndicated television police-drama series "Mr. District Attorney" in 1954 and 1955, and did other television work.
        David Brian was born in New York City and attended City College.
        Besides being a doorman in his early years, he was a chorus boy and a song-and-dance man in nightclubs and vaudeville. During World War II he served in the Coast Guard.
        His other movies included "Inside the Walls of Folsom Prison" (1951), "Million Dollar Mermaid" (1952) and "A Pocketful of Miracles" (1961). He also had stage roles.
        His marriage to Bonita Fiedler ended in divorce in 1949. He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Adrian Booth, who had leading-lady roles in low-budget Western films during the 1940's.
      