
        Metropolitan Germanos Polizoidis, the senior Metropolitan Bishop of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of North and South America, died on July 13 at Astoria General Hospital in Queens. He was 95 and lived in the Lyden Nursing Home in Astoria.
        Bishop Germanos was the last living signatory of the articles of incorporation of the archdiocese, which covers the Western Hemisphere and was established in 1922 under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate in Istanbul.
        Ordained in 1927 by the first Archbishop of the archdiocese, Alexander, Germanos Polizoidis was assigned to St. Demetrios parish in what was then a suburban hamlet of Astoria, where he served for some 16 years.
        He was elevated to the rank of Archimandrite in 1932, by Archbishop Athenagoras, and in 1941 he became Titular Bishop of Nyssa. During World War II, Bishop Germanos was chairman of the Greek War Bond Committee, urging Greek-Americans to support the Government's efforts "to liberate freedom-loving peoples from the darkness of oppressive Fascism." Edited Orthodox Observer
        After an assignment to the Sixth Archdiocesan District, based in Charlotte, N.C., Bishop Germanos returned to the seat of the archdiocese in New York, where he edited The Orthodox Observer and taught at the Holy Cross Greek Orthodox Theological Seminary, situated in Pomfret, Conn., then in Brookline, Mass.
        Upon the death of Archbishop Michael in 1958, he was named locum tenens to lead the archdiocese, a position he held until April 1959, when Archbishop Iakovos assumed his responsibilities. At Archbishop Iakovos's request, the Ecumenical Patriarchate honored Bishop Germanos for his services, designating him Metropolitan of Hierapolis in 1962.
        Retiring in 1963, Metropolitan Germanos continued to serve the archdiocese from his residence in Astoria until he was no longer physically able to do so.
        He was born Hipocrates John Polizoidis in Chalcedon, near Istanbul, the site of the Ecumenical Council in the fifth century. He graduated from the Patriarchal Theological School of Halki, an island off Istanbul, in 1919, and the following year began studies at New York University.
        Surviving are two sisters, Mary Divry and Effie Constantine.
      