
        Andreas Hellrigl, an international chef, restaurateur and hotelier, died on Sunday at a hospital in Newark. He was 61 and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Hellrigl was best known in the United States for his sophisticated and innovative cuisine as the chef and owner of the Palio restaurant in the Equitable Building on West 51st Street in Manhattan.
        His cooking reflected the Northern Italian region of his childhood and was influenced by the neighboring cuisines of Switzerland and Austria, but still bore his own culinary stamp.
        Palio, an elegant modern restaurant, received two stars in a 1991 review by Bryan Miller in The New York Times. He wrote that at its best, Palio's food "could bedazzle."
        In 1979 Mr. Hellrigl opened the Villa Mozart, a luxury restaurant and hotel in the resort town of Merano in the Alto Adige region of Northern Italy. Villa Mozart caters to an international clientele and sponsors special cooking classes. Mr. Hellrigl also operated the Andrea restaurant in Merano from 1954 until last year, when he sold it to two assistants. Wide-Ranging Tastes
        Among his specialties were ravioli with goose liver and duck meat in sage butter, lamb chops with potato and herb crust, fillet of sole, orange-flavored polenta cake, tiramisu and an entire menu section for dishes with balsamic vinegar. He was also fond of game, air-dried meats and kid goat.
        Mr. Hellrigl was born in Tubre, Italy, near the Swiss border. His wife of five years, the former Maria Pia Tirri, said that he became interested in restaurants as a young boy when he was impressed by the white uniforms that chefs wore. He began as a kitchen helper at the age of 13 and apprenticed at restaurants in Munich and Rome.
        He favored long and changing menus to give customers variety and keep the kitchen staff creative, his wife said. He held food in reverence and "said a potato should receive the same respect as a lobster," said Mrs. Hellrigl, who worked with him in the restaurant's office.
        A meticulous chef, Mr. Hellrigl even baked loaves of bread that were destined for use as crumbs and stuffing. "If the rice was cooked for 19 minutes instead of 17, it had to be done all over again," his wife said.
        Mr. Hellrigl was previously married and divorced.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include a son, Roland, of Merano, Italy, and two daughters, Monika, also of Merano, and Johanna, of Short Hills, N.J.
      