
        Fred Gwynne, an actor who had a diverse career but was best known for his portrayal of Herman Munster in the hit series "The Munsters," died yesterday at his home. He was 66 and lived on a farm near Taneytown, Md.
        The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, a family spokesman said.
        Television gave Mr. Gwynne his first national popularity when he starred as Francis Muldoon, half of the bumbling police duo in the comedy series "Car 54, Where Are You?," which ran on NBC from 1961 to 1963.
        Mr. Gwynne, who was 6 foot 5, was once told by a drama teacher that he was too tall for acting. His dominant features were a high forehead, a long face and a jaw so deep that it was described in one newspaper profile as Cro-Magnon. Head of the Munster Household
        His imposing looks, combined with a booming bass voice that was often in demand for narrations, made him a natural choice to play Herman Munster, a cheerful parody of the Frankenstein monster.
        As Herman, he starred as the patriarch of the sepulchral-looking but harmless Munster household that tried, but regularly failed, to fit into conventional suburban life. Jack Gould of The New York Times wrote that "there is not the slightest question that Mr. Gwynne, superbly made up as Frankenstein, is the whole show" and succeeded in making the monster "immensely amusing."
        "The Munsters" leaped into the top-10 ratings on television. The series ran from 1964 to 1966 on CBS and led to a television movie and a film adaptation. Both "The Munsters" and "Car 54" were popular in reruns.
        In 42 years of acting, Mr. Gwynne played a wide variety of roles, in Shakespearean productions and Broadway musicals, challenging dramas and lowbrow television comedy.
        As a young man he aspired to be a portrait painter. Later, he wrote and illustrated a series of children's books from 1958 to 1988.
        His varied career also included a stint as an advertising copywriter on the Ford account for the J. Walter Thompson agency, where he devised the slogan "the world's most beautifully proportioned car."
        Although Herman Munster haunted his acting career like a friendly ghost, Mr. Gwynne also drew praise for more serious roles. Walter Kerr in The Times described as "astonishingly effective" Mr. Gwynne's portrayal of Big Daddy in the 1974 revival of Tennessee Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," with Elizabeth Ashley and Keir Dullea.
        Mr. Gwynne also won plaudits as the stage manager in Thornton Wilder's "Our Town" at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., in 1975, and as the crusty wheelchair-bound colonel in Preston Jones's "Texas Trilogy" on Broadway in 1976. He won an Obie Award for best actor for his work in the Off Broadway play "Grand Magic" in 1979.
        His numerous supporting roles in films included those in "The Cotton Club" (1984), "Fatal Attraction" (1987), "Ironweed" (1987), "Pet Sematary" (1989) and "My Cousin Vinny" (1992).
        He also appeared in many television shows, among them "The Phil Silvers Show" and "NET Playhouse."
        Asked about his favorite roles, he once listed some of the more substantive ones, but then admitted: "And I might as well tell you the truth. I love old Herman Munster. Much as I try not to, I can't stop liking that fellow." Started Acting at Harvard
        Frederick H. Gwynne was born in New York City, the son of a stockbroker. He studied portrait-painting before enlisting in the Navy in World War II. He served as a radio operator in a submarine-chasing vessel.
        After the war, he attended the New York Phoenix School of Design, then went to Harvard. There, he drew cartoons for The Lampoon and became its president. He also acted in the Hasty Pudding Club.
        Upon graduation, he joined the Brattle Theater Repertory Company in Cambridge, Mass. He made his Broadway debut as a gangster named Stinker in "Mrs. McThing," with Helen Hayes, in 1952. He won other parts, then played a police officer in "Irma La Douce," which led to his "Car 54" role. His film debut was a bit part in "On the Waterfront."
        His marriage to Jean Reynard ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Deborah Flater; two sons, Evan and Kieron, and two daughters, Madyn and Gaynor.
      