
        The deputy White House counsel, an Arkansas native who was recruited for the job by Hillary Rodham Clinton, was found dead of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound Tuesday night at a park in northern Virginia.
        Vincent W. Foster Jr., 48, who like President Clinton, was a native of Hope, Ark., was a senior partner at the Rose law firm in Little Rock, Ark., until earlier this year when he moved to Washington to join the Clinton Administration.
        Mr. Foster was a close associate of Mrs. Clinton, and had acted as her representative on many legal matters at the White House, including the search for a Supreme Court justice and arguments over her status as a de facto Federal official, which validated the secret hearings of her task force health care.
        A spokesman for the United States Park Police said Tuesday night that Mr. Foster's body had been discovered in Fort Marcy Park near here shortly after 6 P.M. He was taken to Fairfax Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. 'True and Trusted Friend'
        In a statement released by the White House Tuesday night, Mr. Clinton mourned the death of a friend he had known for more than 40 years.
        "His family has lost a loving husband and father," Mr. Clinton said. "America has lost a gifted and loyal public servant, and Hillary and I have lost a true and trusted friend."
        He added, "My deepest hope is that whatever drew Vince away from us this evening, his soul will receive the grace and salvation that his good life and good works earned."
        White House officials working late into the evening and early morning hours were devastated by the news, which was delivered to the President as he concluded an hourlong appearance on the "Larry King Live" call-in program on CNN. Spends Time With Family
        Mr. Clinton had agreed to continue on the program for an additional half-hour but changed his plans after he was notified during a commercial break late in the hour that Mr. Foster's body had been positively identified. Aides said he spent the rest of the evening with Mr. Foster's wife, Lisa, and their three children.
        "People around here are totally devastated," one senior Administration official said early this morning. "They don't know what to do."
        White House officials would not speculate Tuesday night about what may have caused Mr. Foster to take his own life.
        "Hillary and I love his wife and their three children," Mr. Clinton said in the statement Tuesday night. "And we want to draw them close to our hearts and keep them in our prayers in this painful moment of grief." Group From Arkansas
        Mr. Foster's special relationship with the Clintons made him a member of the intimate group of Arkansans who followed them to the White House. Along with Mr. Foster, two other senior Administration lawyers, Webster Hubbell at the Justice Department and William H. Kennedy 3d at the White House, were also drawn from the Rose law firm. Mr. Hubbell is Attorney General Janet Reno's chief liaison to the White House.
        The group had lately been criticized in some quarters here as being too powerful an influence in the White House. Mr. Kennedy played a critical role in the botched handling of the White House travel staff investigation. Mr. Foster had been actively involved in the search for a Supreme Court Justice and was one of the lawyers who traveled to Boston to interview a potential nominee, Stephen G. Breyer, in his hospital bed.
        Mr. Clinton also brought several other old friends from Arkansas to the White House, including Thomas F. McLarty 3d, his chief of staff, and Bruce Lindsey, his personnel director. The group often socialized together in Washington and several were members of the Country Club of Little Rock until earlier this year.
        While at the Rose firm, Mr. Foster represented the interests of the powerful Stephens investment firm. He reported on his financial disclosure statement that he earned $295,000 from the law firm last year.
        Mr. Foster's sister, Susan Foster Anthony, is a senior Justice Department official and is married to former Representative Beryl Anthony of Arkansas.
      