
        George (Spanky) McFarland, the chubby short-pants schemer behind much of the hanky-panky in the "Our Gang" comedies in the 1930's, died yesterday at Baylor Medical Center of Grapevine in Grapevine, Tex. He was 64 years old and lived in Keller, Tex.
        He died less than an hour after he arrived at the emergency room, said Loretta Saunders, a nursing supervisor. The cause of death had not been determined, she said.
        Cherubic-looking yet perpetually disheveled, Mr. McFarland began his acting career at age 3, modeling baby clothes in his hometown of Dallas. "I was probably 5 or 6 years old before I realized that all kids weren't in movies," he recalled in 1988. 84 Films in Seven Years
        It was headline news when he announced that he was retiring from "Our Gang" -- the most popular juvenile series ever filmed -- in 1938, when he was all of 10 years old. In seven years as an actor, he had appeared in 84 pictures. But by then, he said, he had "kinda lost track" of them all.
        One was "Kentucky Kernels," released when he was 6. He played a toddler with a fondness for trying out bricks, rocks and hammers on different kinds of windows and windshields. Exciting as that was to the Depression-era Saturday matinee crowd, it was nothing compared to the hair-raising scene that followed. His "uncles" took Spanky to Kentucky to claim his estate. Soon they were staring down the muzzles of four rifles aimed by a hillbilly firing squad. A Star for Wonder Bread
        His big break came not in a movie but in a minute-long Wonder Bread commercial. His aunt sent McFarland to the director Hal Roach, the creative force behind "Our Gang," and soon he was cutting up on screen as the foil for his best friend, Alfalfa.
        Mr. Roach originated the "Our Gang" comedies in 1922 after watching a group of youngsters playing in a lumber yard. Their antics appealed to him as an antidote to the mini-adults that stage mothers constantly shepherded into his office. He insisted that all "Our Gang" shooting be scheduled in accord with the youngsters' lives, schooling and recreation.
        But Mr. McFarland said that the on-the-set schooling he received had its disadvantages. Neighborhood playmates envied him for having to attend school for only a couple of hours a day and for having a private tutor.
        "This was my life: get up in the morning, go to the studio and during the day get somewhere in the neighborhood of three hours of schooling, not necessarily at the same time; take an hour for lunch, and that leaves five hours of shooting for film."
        In addition to "Our Gang," McFarland made 14 feature-length movies, including "Trail of the Lonesome Pine" (1936) with Henry Fonda and Fred MacMurray and "The Woman in the Window" (1944) with Joan Bennett and Edward G. Robinson. He also served in the Air Force and later went into sales, working for a wine company, an appliance manufacturer and a boot company.
        He is survived by his wife, Doris, and three children.
      