
        E. Adamson Hoebel, an anthropologist who studied the legal systems of pre-literate societies, died Friday at his home in St. Paul. He was 86.
        The immediate cause was not clear, but he had a history of heart problems, said Frank C. Miller, head of the anthropology department at the University of Minnesota, where Dr. Hoebel had been a faculty member.
        Dr. Hoebel was a former president of the American Ethnological Society and the American Anthropological Association. He retired in 1972 as Regents' Professor of Anthropology at Minnesota after teaching there for 18 years, 15 of them as head of the department.
        He later was an adjunct professor at the university and a visiting professor at the University of Arizona. Field Work on Reservations
        He was among the first scholars to insist that pre-literate societies had systems of legal controls that were worth documenting.
        Much of his field work was done in the 1920's and 1930's on Cheyenne Indian reservations in Montana and elsewhere in the West. He listened to older Cheyennes' recollections of how conflicts about family problems and other matters had been adjudicated and resolved, largely by older men whom Dr. Hoebel called peace chiefs.
        Edward Adamson Hoebel was born in Madison, Wis., and received an A.B. from the University of Wisconsin, a master's degree from New York University and, in 1934, a Ph.D. from Columbia University, where he studied under the anthropologist Franz Boas.
        Dr. Hoebel taught from 1929 to 1948 at New York University and from 1948 to 1954 at the University of Utah, where he also led the anthropology department.
        His books include "Anthropology: The Study of Man" (1949), which was a widely used textbook for decades, and "The Cheyennes: Indians of the Great Plains" (1961).
        The books of which he was a co-author include "The Cheyenne Way: Conflict and Case Law in Primitive Jurisprudence" (1941) and "The Comanches: Lords of the South Plains" (1952).
        Dr. Hoebel married Frances Gore in 1930; she died in 1962.
        His survivors include his wife of 30 years, the former Irene Holth; a son, Bartley, who is a professor of psychology at Princeton University, and five grandchildren.
      