
        Henry Hazlitt, a self-taught economist who popularized the subject as a journalist and wrote a best-selling book about it, died yesterday at the Carolton Chronic Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. He was 98 and had lived at the hospital for nearly seven years.
        "Economics in One Lesson," the best-known of Mr. Hazlitt's 17 books, was unstinting in its praise of free markets. In the simplest language, rarely citing statistics, he laid out what he called the fallacies of regulating economic activity -- like trying, for example, to raise wage levels through minimum wage laws or union bargaining.
        And without naming Karl Marx or John Maynard Keynes, whose theories were so prominent in 1946 when the book was published, Mr. Hazlitt rejected their interventionist solutions.
        "Fallacies, when they have reached the popular stage, become anonymous anyway," he wrote in his 222-page book, which sold more than 600,000 copies. "The subtleties or obscurities to be found in the authors most responsible for propagating them are washed off." Economics and Some Fiction
        Mainly a journalist, by the time he was 38 years old in 1933 Mr. Hazlitt had written on economics for The Wall Street Journal, served as financial editor for The New York Evening Mail, written editorials for The New York Herald and The New York Sun and, switching specialties, served as literary editor of The Sun and then The Nation.
        That brought him to the attention of the writer and critic H. L. Mencken, who asked Mr. Hazlitt in 1933 to succeed him as editor of the American Mercury, a widely read magazine founded by Mr. Mencken and George Jean Nathan, best known for its iconoclastic commentaries on American ways. The following year, Mr. Hazlitt joined The New York Times as an editorial writer specializing in economics, remaining at The Times until 1946. For the next 20 years he wrote a column entitled Business Tides for Newsweek magazine.
        Mr. Hazlitt was born on Nov. 28, 1894, in Philadelphia. He had planned to go to Harvard and major in psychology. But "something called a shortage of funds," as he later put it, forced him to go to City College instead, and a few months later he left even that tuition-free school "to go to work to support my mother as well as myself." The Wall Street Journal gave him that first job.
        Mr. Hazlitt lived in Wilton, Conn., before entering Carolton. His wife, the former Frances S. Kanes, died in 1991.
      