
        Nathaniel H. Bronner Sr., whose success in selling products from his sister's beauty salon led to the creation of an international cosmetics company, died Monday at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 79 and lived in Atlanta.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Bronner was the founder and president of Bronner Brothers, makers of hair care and cosmetic products, mostly for black consumers. The company, whose product lines include African Royale, grossed nearly $20 million last year, ranking 72d on Black Enterprise magazine's list of black-owned American businesses.
        As a young man in the Depression, Mr. Bronner delivered The Atlanta Daily World and was its top salesman for five years.
        To earn extra money, he began selling cosmetics and observed that even when people on his route seemed short of money to pay for a newspaper, they still found change to buy cosmetics. Seeing an 'Urge to Look Good'
        "I learned then that people have a great urge to look good," he once said. "They can be taking their last breath, and they'll ask someone to fix them up so they'll look good."
        Mr. Bronner graduated from Morehouse College. He started as a distributor in 1947, then joined with a brother and three sisters in forming their own company.
        In 1991 he branched out to the resort business, buying the 700-acre Cottonwood Hot Springs Spa and Motel in Cottonwood, Ala.
        Mr. Bronner, who was a Baptist deacon, and his company sponsored the Black on Black Love Campaign, providing clothing for poor children and transportation to churches.
        Mr. Bronner was born on a farm in Kelly, Ga., where his family grew and hunted its food. Twice the Ku Klux Klan ran them off their land.
        He moved in with relatives in Atlanta to attend high school. In World War II, he served in the Army.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Robbie Rutland; six sons, Nathaniel H. Jr., Bernard, Darrow, Dale, Charles and James, all of Atlanta; three brothers, Arthur of Atlanta, Weslow, of Chicago and Charles, of Washington; two sisters, Juanita Garmon and Catherine Render, both of Atlanta, and 14 grandchildren.
      