
        Samuel M. Melton, a retired businessman who spent the first half of his adult life accumulating a fortune and the last half giving most of it away, died yesterday at his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 93.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        When he retired from business in 1959, Mr. Melton opened an office and ran a foundation in his name that gave away tens of millions of dollars.
        On his sick bed two weeks ago, he ordered that three $1 million checks be drawn and made out to Ohio State University, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America and Hebrew University.
        An engineer, Mr. Melton started a small business in his father's garage in 1924, fabricating threaded pipe fittings for plumbers. That company grew into Capitol Manufacturing and Supply of Columbus, a leading producer of stainless steel fittings.
        He was the president and majority owner of the company he founded. He was also an inventor who won a patent for a threadless coupler for electrical conduits. In 1929 he founded the Capitol Pipe and Nipple Manufacturing Company in Detroit. Eventually he sold both operations to the Harsco Corporation and served on its board from 1959 to 1972.
        Mr. Melton aided dozens of organizations, financing buildings, libraries, research, endowed chairs and scholarships. He was chairman of the Columbus Jewish Federation, financed a vocational school in Israel, donated land for housing for the elderly in Columbus and was a co-founder of Boys Town in Jerusalem.
        To bolster Israeli industry, he organized the Capitol Manufacturing and Supply Company of Israel in Tel Aviv.
        He served on the boards of the Children's Hospital of Columbus, national United Jewish Appeal, American Association for Jewish Education, Jewish Theological Seminary of America, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Columbus Heritage House and Columbus Hebrew School.
        Mr. Melton was born in Czechoslovakia, immigrated and grew up in Toledo, Ohio, working part time in the family produce business.
        His first wife, the former Esther Cobey, died in 1966. He is survived by his wife of 25 years, the former Florence Zacks; a daughter, Minna Bess Melton of La Jolla, Calif., and a grandson.
      