
        Ralph W. Whelan, a leading authority on juvenile delinquency who spent many years aiding young people in New York City, including serving as Commissioner of Youth Services, died on Saturday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston at the age of 81. A former resident of Manhattan, he had homes in West Harwich, Mass., and Miami Lakes, Fla.
        He suffered a short illness, his family said.
        Mr. Whelan was born in Needham, Mass., and graduated from the School of Social Service at Boston College in 1935, where he also earned a master's degree in social work in 1938. He was the founding chairman of the Needham Youth Council before becoming associated with private and public agencies for children and young people in New York City.
        In 1944, he was appointed assistant executive director of the youth counseling service of New York Catholic Charities. He helped organize a program for the Archdiocese of New York to give individual attention to school-age boys and girls in danger of sliding into delinquency. Head of Youth Board
        Other agencies he was associated with in those years included the New York City Welfare Council, the New York City Children's Center and the committee on delinquency of the New York State Conference of Social Work.
        In 1947, the city established what was then called the Youth Board -- now the Department of Youth Services -- and Mayor William O'Dwyer appointed Mr. Whelan as its first executive director in charge of a wide range of services. Concurrently he was the city's coordinator of delinquency prevention and control.
        In January 1959, Mayor Robert F. Wagner swore him in as executive vice chairman of the Youth Board and Commissioner of Youth Service, a newly created post. He resigned in April 1962, citing health reasons.
        He joined a new agency set up by the Mary Duke Biddle Foundation to benefit Puerto Ricans living in New York. He moved to Florida in 1975, serving as secretary of the board of Catholic Charities for Dade and Broward Counties. He also founded his own consulting firm and for 10 years was the two counties' chief consultant on the needs of the elderly.
        He is survived by his wife of 41 years, Mary Buckley Whelan, and a sister, Marie Shea of Needham.
      