
        Eschel Mostert Rhoodie, South Africa's chief propagandist for apartheid until one of his country's worst political scandals brought him down in 1978, died Saturday in Atlanta. He was 60.
        An ace tennis player, he died of a heart attack on an Atlanta court, his family said. Mr. Rhoodie, in exile the last 11 years, lived in nearby Smyrna, Ga.
        Suave, well-tailored and swashbuckling in a puritan Afrikaner setting, Mr. Rhoodie traveled the world for five years as South Africa's Secretary for Information, trying to burnish the image of the white-minority Government.
        He was forced to resign in July 1978, and the Information Ministry was abolished. Months later, the rumors turned into a torrent of sensational revelations that he had run a "dirty tricks" department channeling scores of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money into slush funds.
        When the dust settled, it appeared clear that Mr. Rhoodie had charge of a campaign involving dozens of projects to cow the opposition press at home and buy friendly coverage abroad. He was said to have funneled $11 million into a failed effort to gain control of the now defunct Washington Star.
        The scandal led to the fall of President and former Prime Minister John Vorster. Mr. Rhoodie went into hiding in France, was extradited and sentenced to six years in prison for embezzlement. He was accused of diverting money for his own use, but the Appeals Court threw out the conviction, saying he had been under instructions that made him act unconventionally and at exceptional risk.
        He exiled himself to Europe and on to Atlanta, where he was said to have run a consulting firm for South Africans wishing to emigrate to the United States.
        A native of Cape Province, Mr. Rhoodie earned a doctorate at the University of Pretoria with a thesis comparing penal systems in the British Commonwealth. After a brief stint on an Afrikaans newspaper, he joined the Information Ministry and served in foreign posts for 15 years before becoming its chief civil servant.
        Mr. Rhoodie is survived by his wife, Catherine Bondesio Rhoodie; a daughter, Anna-Marie Kern of Atlanta; a son, Eschel Jr. of Louisville, Ky; his mother, Anna Susanna Rhoodie of Pretoria; three brothers and three sisters.
      