
        The Rev. Charles W. F. Smith, an Episcopal minister, educator and author, died on Sunday at a daughter's home in Belleair, Fla. He was 88 and lived in Bridgewater Hill, N.H.
        His daughter Ann Lee S. Bugbee said the cause was congestive lung failure.
        Dr. Smith joined the faculty of the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass., in 1951 as a professor of homiletics and was later named Edmund Swett Roumaniere professor of New Testament. He also taught Greek and served as acting dean of the seminary.
        Retiring from the seminary in 1972, Dr. Smith went on to teach the New Testament at Colgate-Rochester Divinity School, Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria and the College of Preachers in Washington.
        Dr. Smith was ordained as a priest in 1933 in Richmond, and his first parish was St. Paul's Church in that city. He later became rector at Christ Church in Exeter, N.H., where he was also Bible instructor and soccer coach at Phillips Exeter Academy. Served Washington Cathedral
        From 1941 to 1945, he was canon chancellor at the Cathedral of St. Peter and St. Paul in Washington. During those years he also began his association with the College of Preachers and Virginia Theological Seminary, teaching at both institutions. His long association with the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge began in 1945, the same year he was named rector of St. Andrew's Church in Wellesley, Mass.
        Born in London, Dr. Smith immigrated to the United States in 1925 and became an American citizen in 1944. He graduated from the Virginia Theological Seminary and the University of Virginia. He had two honorary degrees of Doctor of Divinity, from the seminaries at Cambridge and Alexandria.
        Dr. Smith served for 18 years on the Episcopal Church's Standing Liturgical Commission, charged with revising the 1928 Book of Common Prayer. The revision was published in 1979, and about two years later Dr. Smith wrote a guide to the revised edition. He also wrote several other books, including: "The Jesus of the Parables" (Westminster, 1948, revised in 1975) and "Biblical Authority for Modern Preaching" (Westminster, 1960).
        His wife of 57 years, the former Ivy Watkins, died last year.
        In addition to his daughter Ann, of Wilmington, Del., he is survived by three other daughters, Ellen S. McDaniel of Belleair, Ivy Prescott-Dwyer of North Dartmouth, Mass., and Victoria G. S. Schilling of Fairfield, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      