
        Richard R. Walton, a college dropout who became an inventor of fabric processing devices, washing machines and many other products, died on June 24 at a hospital in Boston, where he lived. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Walton was granted dozens of patents in the United States and hundreds overseas, the most recent in February.
        His success as an inventor was rare in an era when most marketable inventions emerged from corporate research and university laboratories, often supported by Federal grants.
        Many of his inventions involved fabrics: the first device to pick up a single layer from a stack of cloth for automated production, the Pak-nit process to solve shrinkage in knit fabrics, and various machines to produce elasticity, opacity and absorbency. Worked in His Basement
        He also invented agitating devices for automatic clothes washers, a hand-operated clothes washer for developing countries, a process giving clothlike softness to paper and other nonwoven sheets, and a tobacco-smoking instrument for laboratory animals.
        Mr. Walton, who worked in the basement of his house, described his approach as "try and try again." New Yorker magazine quoted him as saying, "I'm not a theoretician, you see, so I never work from drawings but always invent in the empirical, cut-and-try manner."
        A former salesman, Mr. Walton was equally concerned with analyzing the potential demand for a device as he was with creating it. For presentations to manufacturers, he made quick changes, discarding his torn and soiled work clothes for a Brooks Brothers suit.
        Mr. Walton, a native of Atlanta, Ind., was a precocious but idiosyncratic student who entered Purdue University at the age of 15 to study chemical engineering. Although he spent four years there, two years at the Carnegie Institute of Technology and a year at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he never earned a degree. Invented Six-Pack Container
        His inventing career began by chance when he was selling for the Container Corporation of America. An executive explained a new kind of package he needed and complained it would take months to develop. On the spot, Mr. Walton dug into the trunk of his car and fashioned a prototype that was a precursor to today's six-pack cardboard containers.
        The impressed executive took Mr. Walton onto his staff, but eventually he ventured out on his own, at the age of 42.
        Other conversations inspired other inventions. An offhand comment about the lack of a machine to pick up cloth sent Mr. Walton on a years-long odyssey devising mechanical fingers to lift cloth with suction.
        A challenge from a Colgate-Palmolive executive to invent "backwards" for a low-tech hand-operated washing machine led to a churn-like gadget with a plunger handle.
        His marriage to the former Nancy Cabot ended in divorce. He is survived by a son, Richard, of Boston; a brother, George Walton of Colorado Springs; a sister, Julianna Malsbury of Houston, and two grandchildren.
      