
        Attipat Krishnaswami Ramanujan, a poet, translator and scholar of southern Indian literature, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Chicago. He was 64 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was a heart disturbance during minor surgery, said the University of Chicago, where he was a professor.
        Dr. Ramanujan was born in Mysore, India, and spent the second half of his life in the United States. Because of his crosscultural ties -- he taught English literature in India, and Indian literature in the United States -- he liked to say he was "the hyphen in Indo-American."
        His work earned him the honorary title of Padma Sri from the Indian Government in 1976 and awards from literary academies in India. In 1983 he won a $260,000 fellowship from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Leading Scholar of Tamil
        Dr. Ramanujan served on the University of Chicago faculty for 32 years and was a former chairman of its department of South Asian languages and civilizations. He also taught in the linguistics department and served on an interdepartmental panel that grants advanced degrees.
        He was considered a leading scholar of Tamil, the oldest living Indian language, and he educated many of the American professors now teaching Tamil.
        As a poet, he wrote in both English and Kannada, another Indian language, and translated Kannada and Tamil poems into English. He also studied mythology, folklore and English literature. He wrote four books of poetry, edited three anthologies and translated several volumes.
        His translation "Speaking of Siva" (Penguin Classics, 1973), was nominated for a National Book Award and was the basis for an opera produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation. He also wrote critical essays, reviews and general articles.
        Dr. Ramanujan grew up in a multilingual Brahmin household as the son of an astronomer. By family custom, Tamil was spoken on the main floor of his home, while upstairs English and Sanskrit were spoken. From the roof terrace, the local Kannada language could be heard from passers-by on the street below.
        He earned his bachelor's degree and master's degree in English literature from Mysore University in India and a doctorate in linguistics from Indiana University.
        His former wife is Molly Daniels. His survivors include a son, Krishna, and a daughter, Krittika Ramanujan, both of Chicago.
      