
        Nellie Imogene Donovan Teale, a naturalist who collaborated with the Pulitzer Prize-winning nature writer Edwin Way Teale, her husband, died on Sunday at the Abbey Manor Convalescent Home in Windham, Conn. She was 92 and until a few weeks ago lived at Trail Wood in Hampton, Conn.
        The cause was colon cancer, said Dr. John A. Woodworth, a family friend.
        The Teales deeded Trail Wood to the Connecticut Audubon Society in 1979, the year before Mr. Teale's death. The 190-year-old farmhouse and 140 acres of woods, pastures, swamps and trails are maintained as a memorial sanctuary by the society and the Friends of Trail Wood.
        Although she remained in the background, Mrs. Teale accompanied her husband on all his journeys to chronicle the natural history of the four seasons in North America. Mr. Teale won the Pulitzer for "Wandering Through Winter" (Dodd, Mead, 1965), the last of a four-volume series for which the couple traveled 76,000 miles over 15 years.
        Like her husband, Mrs. Teale was a keen observer of insect, animal and plant life, and she knew more about birds than he did. While he was the writer, she read aloud all his manuscripts and helped him with editing.
        In an eloquent tribute, Mr. Teale wrote in the dedication to "A Walk Through the Year" (Dodd, Mead, 1978): "Dedicated to the sun and the moon and Nellie; to the pasture rose and the bluebird and Nellie; to the starlight and the rainbow and Nellie; to all that means the most to me at Trail Wood especially Nellie."
        She was born in Colorado Springs and met Mr. Teale at Earlham College in 1921, where they were English majors. They were married in 1923. Their only son, David, was killed on a reconnaissance mission with the Army on the Moselle River in Germany in 1945.
        For many years, the Teales lived in Baldwin, L.I., where they planted the insect garden that provided the material for Mr. Teale's first nature book, "Grassroots Jungle" (Dodd, Mead, 1937).
        In 1959, Mrs. Teale and her husband moved to Hampton, where they laid out trails and established the nature sanctuary, watching and recording the changes in the natural world around them.
        After her husband's death, Mrs. Teale donated many of his books and letters to the Teale Archives in the Homer Babbidge Library of the University of Connecticut, where he had left the bulk of his papers.
      