
        Karl E. Metzger, a former secretary of Rutgers University, Mayor of Metuchen, N.J., and director of the Board of Freeholders in Middlesex County, N.J., died on Thursday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 81 and lived in New Brunswick.
        His wife said the cause was unclear, but he had had surgery involving his aorta two years ago.
        Mr. Metzger was the university's secretary -- seeing that university policies were carried out -- from 1950 until he retired in 1976. He was concurrently secretary of the university's board, serving as a coordinator between the university staff and faculty and members of the board.
        He began working at Rutgers as assistant to the president in 1948.  Mayor of Metuchen
        In his honor, university flags were flown at half-staff.
        Mr. Metzger, a soft-spoken man, was elected mayor of Metuchen in 1953, becoming its first Democratic chief executive in 16 years. He held the post until 1958. He began a system of preparing the Metuchen budget at public meetings when the general practice was for a community to draft its budget at private sessions and then hold a public hearing before final approval.
        He was a county freeholder of Middlesex County, from 1955 to 1963, and the director of the Middlesex County Board of Freeholders from 1956 to 1963. He was also active in the Metropolitan Regional Council, made up of mayors, county executives and other officials of 21 counties and 15 large municipalities in the New York City metropolitan region.
        He was born in Randolph, Vt., the son of Fraser Metzger, who became dean of men at Rutgers, and the former Jessie Lacy. The family moved to the New Brunswick area in 1925.
        In 1933, he earned a bachelor's degree in political science, with honors, from Rutgers, where he starred in lacrosse. He received a master's degree in education from Rutgers in 1938 and taught for five years at high schools on Long Island and in New Jersey. He rose to be a major in the Army Air Force in World War II and, after the war, worked in personnel for Trans World Airlines.
        He was the chairman of the board of the Middlesex General Hospital in New Brunswick and a member of the board of the National Bank of New Jersey.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Eleanor H. Smith; two sons, Dr. F. Kirk Metzger of Nevada, Mo., and Karl E. Metzger Jr. of Hays, Kan.; a brother, the Rev. Roscoe F. Metzger of Bloomfield, Conn.; six grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      