
        Thomas Robert Wilcox, who started out as a page at First National City Bank in New York and retired 47 years later as chairman of Crocker National Bank in San Francisco, died Monday at his home in Dering Harbor on Shelter Island, L.I. He was 76.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Wilcox, who was born to Irish immigrant parents in Manhattan, got his first banking job in 1934 at the age of 18. He spent 37 years at First National, now known as Citibank, rising from page to assistant cashier and eventually to vice president. Along the way he received a degree in economics from Princeton in 1940 and served in the Navy in World War II, rising to the rank of lieutenant commander.
        By 1954 he was in charge of First National's domestic branches. He served as executive vice president from 1957 to 1967 and then as vice chairman until his departure in 1971. Three years later, he became chairman and chief executive of Crocker National. Pushed $500 Million Deal
        Mr. Wilcox, a trim 6 feet 8 inches tall, was a hard-driving executive. At Crocker he brought in a new management team and tried to propel the bank into the major leagues in tandem with Midland Bank Ltd., Britain's third-largest bank.
        A deal took shape in 1981. It was the largest foreign takeover of an American bank, with Midland acquiring a majority stake for $500 million.
        But it was a turbulent period for banks worldwide, and this particular American incursion proved ill-starred for Midland. It sold Crocker in 1986 to Wells Fargo & Company of San Francisco for about $1 billion, and Crocker soon disappeared.
        Mr. Wilcox retired in 1981, shortly after the Midland-Crocker deal.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Mary Jane Collette; three sons, Thomas R. Wilcox Jr. of Essex, Conn., M. Kirby Wilcox of El Cerrito, Calif., and Andrew McK. Wilcox of San Rafael, Calif.; two brothers, George L. Wilcox of Ligonier, Pa., and Walter J. Wilcox of Orleans, Mass., and four grandsons.
      