
        Charles Francis Gosnell, a former New York State Librarian and a past Grand Master of Masons in New York State, died on Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Utica, N.Y. He was 83 and lived at the Masonic Home in Utica.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Robert C. Singer, grand secretary of the New York Grand Lodge of Masons.
        Dr. Gosnell attracted national attention in the early 1950's when as State Librarian and Assistant Commissioner of Health and Education in New York, he conducted studies showing that the country's public libraries were in a deplorable state and that the libraries of the majority of colleges and universities were suffering from neglect. Retired in '74
        He was head of the State Library in Albany from 1945 to 1962 when he was appointed director of libraries at New York University and Professor of Library Administration. He held those posts until retiring in 1974.
        In 1974, he was named adviser to the United States General Services Administration on archives and records centers. Earlier, he had served as a consultant to the University of Brasilia and to the Inter-American Development Bank and headed a Unesco survey of public library services in Colombia.
        Following in his father's footsteps, Dr. Gosnell became a Mason in Masters Lodge in Albany in 1950 and attained the 33d degree, the highest highest rank of Scottish Rite Masonry. He was elected Grand Master for New York State in 1968, and served the usual two-year term, serving as chairman of the Conference of Grand Masters in North America in 1969.
        In later years, he served as first president and the main spirit behind the creation of the Chancellor Robert R. Livingson Masonic Library, in Manhattan, one of the largest Masonic libraries in the world.
        He was born in Rochester, and graduated from the University of Rochester, receiving a master's degree from Columbia in 1932 and a Ph.D. from N.Y.U. in 1943. He began his career as assistant librarian at Queens College in 1937, becoming librarian in 1945.
        He was past president of the National Association of State Libraries and of the New York Library Association.
        His first marriage to Patria Aran-Soler ended in divorce. His second wife, Helen Louise Kuhlman, died before him.
        His survivors include two daughters from his first marriage, Alice and Rita, and three daughters, Deborah, Susan and Catherine, and one son, Marsh Kuhlman, from his second marriage.
      