
        Jesse D. Sepulveda Jr., whose heart transplant in 1986 when he was 16 days old stirred a national debate over medical ethics and led to the creation of a new Federal organ donor system, died Friday after a second heart transplant. He was 7 and lived in Los Angeles.
        His death was announced by Loma Linda University Medical Center in Loma Linda, Calif., where he had received both transplants.
        The hospital, which pioneered heart transplants for infants, said his first transplanted heart developed artery problems several months ago.
        After that heart was replaced with a second transplant on June 16, his body's immune system began rejecting the new organ. A third transplant was deemed inadvisable.
        Jesse's unusual plight in receiving his first transplant drew national attention to the issues of how organ transplants were approved and arranged. Concern over his case helped win passage of Federal legislation in 1986 that created the computerized system now operated by the United Network for Organ Sharing in Richmond, which matches patients in need with potential donors. Appeal Wins a Heart
        Jesse was born on May 25, 1986, with a usually fatal defect in which part of the heart is not properly developed, known as hypoplastic left-heart syndrome. Initially, a hospital review board turned him down for a transplant.
        A family priest and the National Right to Life Committee, an anti-abortion organization, began publicizing his case, saying that parents were told the transplant was denied because they were unmarried.
        The hospital denied that but said its decision was based on concern for the baby's postoperative care, and there were reports that the mother had drug problems. After the parents agreed to turn over custody of Jesse to his paternal grandparents, the hospital approved the transplant. Later the parents regained custody.
        Appealing for donors, the parents -- Jesse D. Sepulveda, then 26, and Deana Binkley, then 17 -- appeared on Phil Donahue's television program. They were unaware that the parent of a brain-dead baby in Michigan had already heard news reports about their situation and had agreed to donate her child's heart.
        With millions of Americans watching the live program, Mr. Donahue got a hospital official on the telephone who announced that a donor had been found, and the studio audience burst into cheers and tears.
        But it was discovered that in arranging the transplant, there had been a misunderstanding on the part of the doctors in Michigan regarding the less-sophisticated system on transplants in use at the time. The misunderstanding resulted in the inadvertent bypassing of a baby in Kentucky who needed a heart transplant and had been at the top of the list. Another donor was found in Connecticut for the Kentucky baby. New System in 1987
        Debate raged over the broad issues of the criteria for approving transplants and the mechanics of how they were arranged. Federal legislation in 1984 had called for a better national system, but the Reagan Administration, philosophically opposed to Federal involvement, had resisted carrying it out.
        New legislation was enacted that year, setting up the current system, which began operating in 1987.
        Baby Jesse's 1986 operation lasted four hours. He was only the fourth infant in the world to receive a successful heart transplant and was the first to die of complications after surviving the initial operation. He was only the second child to receive two heart transplants.
        His surgeon was Dr. Leonard Bailey, who pioneered infant heart transplants.
        The Sepulveda family kept its privacy. Dick Schaefer, a spokesman for the hospital, said that to the best of his knowledge, Jesse had a normal childhood until his heart recently developed arterial obstructions, which led to the second transplant.
      