
        Robert Currie, an internationally known designer of commercial and residential interiors, sets for television and print advertisements, died on Wednesday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 45.
        A friend, Marjorie Rosen, said the cause was complications from AIDS.
        Mr. Currie was known for his bold, trend-setting ideas, room settings and shop interiors for both fashion and home-furnishings clients, including Yves St. Laurent, Giorgio Armani, Calvin Klein, Didier Aaron and Doris Blau.
        Mr. Currie had no formal training but was widely recognized as one of the most gifted among a generation of talented designers. He was a master of the unexpected, using unusual textures and creating dramatic effects by contrasting simple objects with extravagant ones.
        Born in Paterson, N.J., on June 26, 1948, Mr. Currie was a classical studies major at Syracuse University and worked in the Peace Corps.
        In the early 1970's, a shop window he put together for a friend was noticed by Geraldine Stutz, the president of the Henri Bendel store. He became display director for the store in 1975, a position he held until 1979, and his dramatic, often humorous and always clever windows became must-see design stops in Manhattan.
        Mr. Currie elevated the medium of store window display to what became known around town as "street theater." Mr. Currie went on to do window displays for such fashion stores as Hanae Mori, Chanel, Martha and Clarence House, a designer fabrics company. Portrayed Obsession
        Mr. Currie directed the first thematic fashion video for Norma Kamali, entitled Fall Fantasy, and worked with the photographer Richard Avedon on television and print advertising campaigns for Christian Dior, Gianni Versace and Calvin Klein.
        Most memorable were the sets for television commercials for Mr. Klein's Obsession perfume broadcast in 1985 and 1986: stark, nearly surreal, black and white dramatizations of abstract situations involving obsessive relationships.
        Throughout the 80's, Mr. Currie designed a series of exhibitions that included a show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Valentino, the Italian fashion designer; a 100th anniversary party for Sotheby's, and fashion exhibitions on Hanae Mori in Tokyo.
        Mr. Currie's work was widely published in magazines like Architectural Digest, Interior Design and The New York Times.
        Mr. Currie is survived by his companion, Michael Halpern, of Hollywood, Calif.; his mother, Annette Currie, of Providence, R.I., and his brother, Jack Currie, also of Providence.
        A service will be held today at 11 A.M. at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street in Manhattan.
      