
        M. Milton Glass, senior partner in the New York architectural firm of Glass & Glass and former head of New York city's Board of Standards and Appeals, died yesterday at Tisch Hospital of New York University. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Glass had been in private practice as an architect and urban planner since 1934. He established his own practice in 1961 and went into semi-retirement last year.
        In early 1967 Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed him chairman of the five-member city panel that sets standards for materials and equipment used in the construction of all buildings in the city. It also judges requests for variances from zoning laws and appeals from decisions made by the Fire and Building Commissioners about such construction. Dispute and Resignation
        To take the post, Mr. Glass resigned from Glass & Glass. But he quit the board three years later after months of jousting over zoning requirements with the chairman of the City Planning Commission, Donald H. Elliott, a close associate of Mr. Lindsay.
        In one instance, in 1969, the city's Corporation Council, acting on behalf of Mr. Elliott's agency, even sued the Board of Standards and Appeals. The aim was to overturn a variance granted to the developers of a blocklong, high-density apartment house across from Lincoln Center. After he left the board, Mr. Glass returned to his firm.
        He was born in New York City and educated at City College and in the schools of architecture at Columbia University and New York University and the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design. Before he founded his own firm, he was a partner in the firm of Mayer, Whittlesey & Glass, which disbanded in 1961.
        Mr. Glass's first wife, Ruth Goodman, died in 1970 after 42 years of marriage.
        He is survived by his wife, Rose Schlamowitz; a daughter, Joan Cantor, and a son, Elliott Glass, both of Manhattan; two grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      