
        Dr. Zanvil Alexander Cohn, a cell biologist and immunologist who was in the forefront of current studies of the body's defenses against infection, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66.
        The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, said a statement from Rockefeller University, where Dr. Cohn had been the Henry G. Kunkel Professor for the last seven years.
        Dr. Cohn's experiments threw light on the functions of T-cells, made in the bone marrow, and macrophages, large cells that can surround and digest foreign substances like protozoa and bacteria. He applied these insights to patient-oriented investigations of leprosy, tuberculosis and AIDS.
        He also established that macrophages can release a multitude of biologically active products. Since the mid-1980's he used hormone-like products of the immune system to increase patients' resistance to microbial infections. This work took him to parts of Asia and Latin America where leprosy and tuberculosis are endemic. Medical Resserch
        "I think his greatest pleasure was to nurture the development of students and young faculty, many of whom now occupy professorial positions," said Dr. Ralph Steinman, co-chairman with Dr. Cohn, of the laboratory of cellular physiology and immunology at Rockefeller.
        Dr. Cohn was senior physician at the university as well as vice president for medical affairs. Until two years ago he also served as principal investigator of the Irvington Institute for Medical Research.
        A native of New York City, Dr. Cohn graduated from Bates College and Harvard Medical School, summa cum laude, and trained at Massachusetts General Hospital. Before joining the Rockefeller Institute, now University, in 1958, he was a researcher at Walter Reed Army Institute with the rank of captain in the Army Medical Corps.
        He is survived by his wife, Fern Dworkin Cohn; a son, Dr. David J., of Seattle; a daughter, Ellen R., of New Haven; a brother, Donald J., of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      