
        Herbert H. Uhlig, a chemist who was an expert on the corrosion of metals, died on July 3 at his home in Hancock, N.H. He was 86.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Uhlig, a professor emeritus of metallurgy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, served for 29 years as the head of its corrosion laboratory, which was renamed in his honor in 1982.
        He was the co-author of nearly 200 scientific papers, edited the "Corrosion Handbook" (John Wiley & Sons, 1948) and wrote the textbook "Corrosion and Corrosion Control" (John Wiley & Sons, 1963).
        His work won him a Guggenheim fellowship and awards from several academic and professional organizations. He served as president of the Electrochemical Society and helped organize professional conferences and groups, including the International Corrosion Council, of which he was chairman.
        After graduating from Brown University, Dr. Uhlig earned his doctorate in chemistry from M.I.T. in 1932. He began his career as a research chemist at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in Manhattan, then became the assistant chief chemist at Lever Brothers in Cambridge, Mass. Research in World War II
        He moved to M.I.T. as a researcher but during World War II transferred to General Electric's laboratories in Schenectady, N.Y. He worked there on corrosion research under government contracts involving metal for aircraft and other military uses.
        Returning to M.I.T. in 1946, he became the director of its corrosion laboratory and in 1953 was promoted to full professor.
        After formally retiring in 1972, he continued part-time research and teaching at M.I.T. until 1975, then became a visiting professor, teaching at institutions in Woods Hole, Mass., Australia and the Netherlands.
        He was a former president of the international Thoreau Society and of the Rumford Historical Society in Woburn, Mass.
        His survivors include his wife of 52 years, the former Greta Johnson; three daughters, Karin U. Young of Wellesley, Mass.; Maida R. Uhlig of Brookline, Mass., and Kristin G. Uhlig of Gorham, Me.; a sister, Ruth Sheridan of Southbury, Conn., and three grandsons.
      