
        Nelson Seitel, the associate publisher of The New York Law Journal and a veteran of public service, died yesterday at his home in Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, the paper said.
        After more than 30 years in a variety of public posts, Mr. Seitel was recruited by The Journal's publisher, Jerry Finkelstein, as his associate in 1970. The publisher praised him as "a scholar, teacher, public official and expert in legislation and legislative drafting."
        The appointment came when Mr. Seitel's predecessor, M. Marvin Berger, resigned to accept an appointment to the bench. The Journal, published on weekdays, is considered must reading by virtually every lawyer in New York City. A Teaching Vocation
        Over the years, Mr. Seitel (pronounced sigh-TELL) also taught, most recently for nearly 10 years at New York Law School. Before that, he had lectured at Brooklyn College, his alma mater, and at City College.
        Born in a small town in Rumania, he was brought to this country as an infant during World War I. After his graduation from Brooklyn College, he earned his law degree at Columbia University Law School. He was a lawyer, but he never practiced.
        He served as director of research and planning of the city's Planning Commission, where he prepared the first master plan for housing and slum clearance adopted by the commission.
        As Labor Commissioner under Mayor Robert F. Wagner he drafted an executive order that granted city workers the right to bargain collectively and established a career and salary plan for city workers.
        He served as chairman of the city's Transit Advisory Board, which oversees services, equipment and fares of franchised bus operators. He headed a committee that came up with a formula to save the Staten Island Rapid Transit System when the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad threatened its demise.
        Mr. Seitel wrote many government reports and helped to draft municipal ordinances and state statutes. He was counsel to various state bodies dealing with corporate law, penal institutions and local government. A report he wrote on prisons led to the state's Work Release Law.
        He was serving as counsel to Assembly Speaker Stanley Steingut when Mr. Finkelstein enlisted him for The Law Journal.
        Mr. Seitel is survived by his wife of nearly 50 years, Josephine; two daughters, Karen Seitel of Manhattan and Joan Ackerstein of Boston, and two grandchildren.
      