
        John M. Todd, a Roman Catholic publisher and scholar who wrote sympathetic studies of Martin Luther and John Wesley, died at his home in Somerset, England, on June 9. He was 75.
        In 1959, after several years as an editor at Longmans Green, Mr. Todd and two other members of the publishing concern left to found Darton, Longman & Todd, an ecumenical religious publishing house. As Catholic editor, Mr. Todd published Karl Rahner, Yves Congar and Henri de Lubac among European theologians as well as the Canadian Bernard Lonergan and the Indian Raymond Panikkar.
        Overshadowing all the concern's other publications, however, was the 1966 Jerusalem Bible, a new popular English translation modeling itself on a translation done by French scholars in the 1950's.
        Even before the Second Vatican Council opened a new era of ecumenical ties between Christian churches, Mr. Todd's own books, "John Wesley and the Catholic Church" (1958) and "Martin Luther: A Biographical Study" (1964), had departed from the polemical attitudes long marking Catholic studies of Protestant leaders.  A Conscientious Objector
        Of his later, fuller biography, "Martin Luther" (1982), the Presbyterian theologian Robert McAfee Brown wrote in The New York Times that it "excels in humanizing Luther without psychologizing him out of existence."
        Born May 27, 1918, in Liverpool, Mr. Todd was a conscientious objector in 1940, and lived in the war years in a rural commune he helped organize.  The experience, he wrote, shattered his "Rousseau-esque idea of the ultimate goodness of human beings."
        In 1944 he became a Catholic and began a long association with the Benedictines at Downside Abbey, where he later brought together Christian intellectuals for a series of influential symposiums on topics like authority in the church and theology and the university.
        A promoter of popular theological education for lay people from the 1940's, he also taught at Boston College in 1972 and at King's College, London, in 1983-86.
        Mr. Todd is survived by his wife, Patricia, whom he married in 1953, and by two daughters and a son.
      