
        Reva Clamage Shwayder, an artist who was the subject of a documentary film that won an Academy Award, died at her home in Franklin, Mich., on Thursday. She was 91.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, her family said.
        Mrs. Shwayder was married for 62 years to Benjamin Shwayder, who with his four brothers founded the Samsonite Corporation.
        She took an interest in the business and sat in on family discussions guiding the growth of the company, said her grandson, Mark Shwayder.
        Samsonite developed and became the world's largest manufacturer of hard-sided luggage, then expanded into the production of folding chairs and tables. Mr. Shwayder, who invented devices for the company, was its president.
        Starting in 1950, Mrs. Shwayder became a painter, doing large worksin acrylics and water colors that featured bright flowers and landscapes in an abstract style.
        When she retired two years ago, she had produced hundreds of paintings and had held many exhibits. She sold her works to private collectors and corporate clients including Ford, Chrysler, I.B.M. and Kresge, as well as to the Detroit Institute of Arts and Pennsylvania Academy of Arts.
        Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter, but she retained her original married name.
        Mr. Gothelf's daughter, Sue Marx, joined Pamela Conn in directing "Young at Heart," which was shown at the New York Film Festival and won the Academy Award in the short subject category in 1988.
        The movie focused on Mrs. Shwayder's career and remarriage late in life, and how she coped with the losses of her first husband and sons Warren, who died in a scuba diving accident, and Richard, who died of cancer soon after.
        Mrs. Shwayder was born in Chicago and studied at the University of Chicago.
        Her survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      