
        Dr. Mildred Gordon, a cell biologist at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73.
        The cause was cancer, Mount Sinai reported.
        She was a pioneer in molecular biology as it helped illuminate the process of human reproduction, the hospital said.
        Her research broke new ground on the elemental structures of human sperm and the endometrium, or inner lining, of the uterus, that can be detected only with an electron microscope.
        Among other things, her work added to the knowledge of nuclear events in the endometrium at the time an embryo is implanted. She was frequently cited for her theories on the role of calcium in the function of the spermatocyte, a stage in the developing male sex cell. At Mount Sinai and City College
        Dr. Gordon joined the faculty of the department of cell biology and anatomy at Mount Sinai in 1981 as a professorial lecturer, the title she held at her death. From 1978 until two years ago, she also was a medical professor at the School for Biomedical Education of the City University Medical School at City College and, until 1985, a member of the college's graduate faculty of biochemistry and biology.
        Mildred Kobrin Gordon was born in Manhattan and was a biology graduate of City College, with an M.S. in zoology from Tulane University and a Ph.D. in anatomy from Yale University School of Medicine. She had various teaching and research jobs at Yale before joining the State University of New York in Buffalo as an associate professor of anatomical sciences in the mid-1970's.
        A statement from City University yesterday said her studies there had furthered in vitro fertilization, adding: "She was always deeply concerned about minority issues, and provided strong suport for minority students, and was a longtime advocate for women in science and medicine."
        Dr. Gordon, who was divorced, is survived by two sons, Marc, of Manhattan, and Dr. Jon W. of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a daughter, Sara, of Cambridge, Mass.; a sister, Maya Wallace of Woodland Hills, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      