
        Lucinda Ballard, the Broadway costume designer, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 87 years old.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Miss Ballard won the first Tony Award for costume design, in 1947, for her work on several productions in that season: "Happy Birthday," "Another Part of the Forest," "Street Scene," "John Loves Mary" and "The Chocolate Soldier." She won another Tony in 1962 for "The Gay Life."
        In 1945, she won a Donaldson Award, a prestigious theatrical prize that is no longer given, for the nostalgic costumes she designed for "I Remember Mama." In 1951, she was nominated for an Academy Award for her work on the film "A Streetcar Named Desire." Correcting an Omission
        Miss Ballard was an energetic champion of the costume designer's importance to a play. She was known for her skillful use of color, and Elia Kazan also noted her talent for visualizing in advance how the costumes in a play would look together, when they were seen by the audience.
        Writing in 1987 about Miss Ballard's role in the history of theatrical costume design, Jeanne T. Newlin, the curator of the Harvard Theater Collection of the Harvard College Library, said: "The costume designer waited far too long for full professional appreciation. No one in the modern American theater has done more to resist this omission and force open the eyes of the producer, the director and, best of all, the playwright than Lucinda Ballard."
        Miss Ballard once described herself, with some understatement, as "a theatrical designer who was quite successful and was noticed, especially for making historical costumes look human rather than museumish."
        Her first theater credits were as the scenic and costume designer for a 1937 production of Shakespeare's "As You Like It" at the Ritz Theater in New York. She retired in 1962, but came back in 1985 to design the costumes for a revival of Tennessee Williams's "Night of the Iguana." Born in New Orleans
        Miss Ballard, whose given name was Lucinda Davis Goldsborough, was born in New Orleans, the daughter of Richard Goldsborough and the former Anna Farrar. She attended Miss McGehee's School in New Orleans and the Art Students League in New York. She also studied in Paris and elsewhere in France.
        She married William F. R. Ballard in 1930; they were divorced in 1938. In 1951, she married Howard Dietz, who wrote the lyrics for more than 500 songs, and they lived for many years in Sands Point, L.I. He died in 1983.
        Miss Ballard is survived by a son, Robert F. R. Ballard of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Liza Dietz Gard of London; six grandchildren, and two stepgrandchildren.
      