
        Robert C. Maynard, a trailblazer for minority journalists who was the first black editor and owner of a major daily newspaper in the United States, died at his home in Oakland, Calif., on Tuesday. He was 56.
        He died of prostate cancer, a family spokesman said.
        For a decade Mr. Maynard was the editor, publisher and owner of The Oakland Tribune, until eroding circulation and advertising forced its sale to the Alameda Newspaper Group last year.
        His newspaper career began to flourish when he became the White House correspondent for The Washington Post, and he eventually became an editor, national columnist, television panelist, Pulitzer Prize juror and a leader in professional organizations. Journalism's Jackie Robinson
        But he won more praise for his efforts to help minority youths follow him into journalism. Paul Cobb, who is active in Oakland community affairs, once said that "Maynard is to publishing what Jackie Robinson is to baseball."
        Mr. Maynard and his wife, the former Nancy Hicks, formed the Institute for Journalism Education at Berkeley, Calif., a nonprofit organization that trained hundreds of minority students. In management and professional circles, he advocated diversity and prodded news organizations to recruit and promote more minority employees.
        "This country cannot be the country we all want it to be if its story is told by only one group of citizens," he said in his last public speech, in May. "Our goal is to give all Americans front-door access to the truth."
        Mr. Maynard was a high school dropout, born to immigrant parents from Barbados in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. But he had his heart set on journalism as a youngster, even at the expense of his formal education. The allure of watching courtroom reporting led him to skip classes. Nieman Fellow in 1966
        While still a teen-ager he worked for The New York Age, a Brooklyn weekly. He also worked for The Afro-American News in Baltimore and The York Gazette and Daily in Pennsylvania, now The York Daily Record.
        After winning a Nieman fellowship at Harvard in 1966, Mr. Maynard joined The Post, where he won plaudits for his coverage of urban unrest. He served as a national correspondent, ombudsman and editorial writer before leaving The Post to found the training institute.
        Returning to newspapers, he was hired in 1979 as The Tribune's editor by its new owner, the Gannett chain. Despite Gannett's investments to improve the paper, it remained fiscally tenuous, based in a black community and competing with papers in affluent white suburbs and San Francisco.
        In 1983 Gannett sold The Tribune to Mr. Maynard for $22 million, financed by loans from Gannett and banks.
        Mr. Maynard's prominence grew when he became the paper's owner. He wrote a syndicated column, appeared as a commentator on the David Brinkley and MacNeil-Lehrer television programs and served on the boards of The Associated Press, the American Society of Newspaper Editors and the National News Council.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Maynard is survived by a daughter, Dori Maynard; two sons, David and Alex Maynard, and four brothers and sisters.
      