
        Thomas R. Lincoln, a lawyer who helped manage the financial empire of Aristotle S. Onassis, died yesterday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 78 and lived in Greenwich.
        He had a long illness, his family said.
        For nearly 35 years, Mr. Lincoln was one of the close-knit group of officials who directed the complex and often mysterious organization of dozens of companies connected to Mr. Onassis and his daughter, Christina.
        "We don't have a table of organization," Mr. Lincoln said of the operations in 1975, "but we know who everybody is."
        He served as president of Victory Carriers, an American branch of the Onassis empire, and managed Olympic Tower, an office and apartment building in Manhattan. He was also instrumental in the financing of Olympic Airways.
        Mr. Lincoln was born in Buffalo. His father, Leroy, was the president of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company when Mr. Onassis got his initial financing there for oil shipping.
        After graduating from Princeton University and the University of Virginia Law School, Mr. Lincoln served four years in the Navy during World War II.
        He began his legal career at Shearman & Sterling, a Wall Street law firm, where he specialized in corporate finance. The firm's clients included Mr. Onassis, who hired Mr. Lincoln in 1956.
        After retiring from full-time duties in 1991, Mr. Lincoln continued as a director in the associated companies.
        His marriage to the former Carolyn Ream ended in divorce.
        His survivors include his wife of 23 years, the former Victoria Cadigan; a son, Thomas R. Jr., of Sacramento, Calif.; four daughters, Letitia Pratt of near Lake Tahoe, Nev., Carolyn Huber of Greenwich, Cynthia Batchelder of Manchester, Vt., Mary Louise Lincoln of Tucson, Ariz.; a stepson, Thomas Cadigan of Norwalk, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Deborah Pike of Norwalk; a brother, Charles of Montclair, N.J.; eight grandchildren, and four step-grandchildren.
      