
        The Rev. Dr. Edward L. R. Elson, a Presbyterian church leader who baptized and confirmed President Dwight D. Eisenhower and was chaplain of the United States Senate for a dozen years, died on Wednesday at the Presbyterian Home in Washington. He was 86.
        The cause was heart failure, the National Presbyterian Church said. Dr. Elson was a senior pastor at the church from 1946 until his retirement 20 years ago.
        One of the dominant figures in his church, Dr. Elson was an Army chaplain, the author of 11 books and counselor to many leaders of government.
        His sermons reflected an uncommon blend of Calvinism and unabashed patriotism; criticized by some, they were nevertheless acclaimed for their stylish eloquence and skillful delivery. Son of an Engineer
        Edward Lee Roy Elson was born in Monongahela, Pa. He was the son of a locomotive engineer and one of seven children in a devout Presbyterian family.
        He was educated at Asbury College in Wilmore, Ky., and at the University of Southern California, where he received his master's in theology. Ordained by the Presbytery of Los Angeles in Santa Monica, he served his first pastorates there and in La Jolla, Calif.
        In World War II he was an Army chaplain in Europe, reaching the rank of colonel. His post-war work in Germany drew the attention of General Eisenhower, who commissioned him to be his envoy to the German Protestant Church.
        In 1946, he was named pastor of the Covenant First Presbyterian Church in Washington, a congregation that started services on the White House grounds in 1795. He led the church to its designation as the National Presbyterian Church and guided its building program in northwest Washington, completing it in 1969 free of debt. It was in 1969 that Dr. Elson became the Senate chaplain, serving in that post until 1981. Close to Eisenhower
        Dr. Elson knew eight Presidents but was closest to Eisenhower, who regularly attended services during his Presidency. Ten days after the inauguration in 1953, the President was baptized and confirmed by Dr. Elson as a member of his church. It was the only time a President was baptized while in office.
        The National Presbyterian's historic church is known for its "Presidents' Pew," which was used by Andrew Jackson, James Buchanan, Grover Cleveland, Benjamin Harrison and Woodrow Wilson but not by Eisenhower.
        Dr. Elson went on special missions for Presidents Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, sometimes traveling abroad with personal messages. A student of the Middle East, he often visited the region and met with world leaders, including King Hussein, David Ben Gurion, Golda Meir and the prime ministers of Lebanon, Syria and Iraq.
        Among his books were one on spiritual values, "America's Spiritual Recovery," and an autobiography, "Wide Was His Parish" (Tyndale, 1986).
        Dr. Elson's first wife, Frances San dys, died in 1933. He is survived by his second wife of 56 years, Helen Chittick Elson; three daughters, Dr. Eleanor Heginbotham of Potomac, Md., Dr. Beverly E. Gray of Washington and Mary F. Buchanan of Shepherdstown, W. Va.; a son, David E., of Sharpsburg, Md.; three brothers; two sisters, and three grandchildren.
      