
        Lawrence Kadoorie, one of the industrialists who transformed the British colony of Hong Kong from a barren island to an economic jewel, died today. He was 94.
        Lord Kadoorie's company, China Light and Power, made possible Hong Kong's post-World War II industrial boom, and he became known as a "taipan," one of the immigrant dynamos who built up Hong Kong.
        The Kadoorie family fortune is estimated at $3 billion. Its holdings include a 35 percent stake in China Light and a similar stake in Hong Kong and Shanghai Hotels, which is headed by Lord Kadoorie's son, Michael.
        The son of a Jewish immigrant from Iraq, Lawrence Kadoorie was born at the peak of the British Empire's power. He was the first man born in Hong Kong to be named to the British House of Lords.
        The acting Governor of Hong Kong, Sir David Ford, described him as "a businessman of extraordinary vision" and "the driving force behind massive investment projects which will serve Hong Kong's interests well into the next century."
        The Kadoorie family had to struggle to keep its fortune, first built by Lord Kadoorie's father, Elly.
        After Japan seized Hong Kong in 1942, the family was kept in a prison camp, where the father died. The family's sumptuous Peninsula Hotel in Kowloon became Japanese headquarters.
        Four years after the war, Mao Zedong's Chinese Communists seized the family's Shanghai holdings.
        But the younger Kadoorie put the remaining family fortune to work, investing in postwar reconstruction.
        Lord Kadoorie served in the colony's legislature and policy-making Executive Council from 1951 to 1954. He was an unabashed conservative who once said he saw "quite a lot of good in colonialism."
        Last year he told The International Herald Tribune he was "still a Victorian, one of the very few around."
        He was reported to have close ties with Chinese leaders, including Deng Xiaoping, and was believed to be involved in preparations for Hong Kong's transfer of power to China in 1997.
        Before retiring as chairman in December 1992, Lord Kadoorie steered China Light and Power into a joint venture with China to build a nuclear power plant at Daya Bay, about 30 miles north of the border with Hong Kong.
        He is survived by his wife, Muriel; his son, Michael; a daughter, Rita, and a younger brother, Horace.
      