
        Jack Peters, the former president of J. Walter Thompson, one of the world's largest advertising agencies, was killed on Thursday at his Greenwich, Conn., home. He was 62.
        Mr. Peters was shot to death in his backyard pool, the Greenwich police said. The police said his body was found after a family friend, Andrew D. Wilson, 32, went to Police Headquarters and said that he had killed Mr. Peters.
        In interviews in 1987, J. Walter Thompson executives said Mr. Peters deserved much credit for the growth of J. Walter Thompson, U.S.A. since 1980.
        He rose through the account-management ranks of J. Walter Thompson, and his clients over the years included Ford of Europe, a unit of the Ford Motor Company, Kraft Foods, Schlitz beer, National Car Rental and Phillips Petroleum.
        He was born in Highland Park, Ill., the son of John Alexander and Mary Agnes Peters. An Account Representative
        After serving in Army intelligence in the United States during the Korean War, he earned a B.S. degree in business in 1956 from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. He went to work later that year for J. Walter Thompson in Chicago, initially as an account representative.
        After working for a short time in Chicago, Mr. Peters moved to Detroit. He then spent the rest of his career based in Manhattan except from 1972 to 1975 when he was in London, where he was in charge of the Ford of Europe account.
        In 1974, he was named a senior vice president of J. Walter Thompson, and in 1978 was promoted to executive vice president, with responsibility for Ford advertising. In 1980, he became a vice chairman of J. Walter Thompson, U.S.A., and was also elected to the board of directors of J. Walter Thompson Company, the parent company.
        In 1984 he was named president and chief operating officer of J. Walter Thompson, U.S.A., and in 1986, he became president and chief operating officer of J. Walter Thompson Company. A family member said Mr. Peters retired from the company in 1987, although a news report at the time said that he had been dismissed after what was described as a "palace revolt."
        Mr. Peters was on the business advisory council of Miami University. He was an enthusiastic amateur pilot of small planes and gliders and was a member of two pilots' associations, the American Bonanza Society and the American Soaring Society. He was also an avid scuba diver.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Katrina Van Tassel, whom he married in 1957; two daughters, Kim, of Stamford, Conn., and Sara, of Manhattan Beach, Calif.; two sons, Dirk, of Old Greenwich, Conn., and Todd, of San Francisco; a sister, Joan Shapiro of Libertyville, Ill., and a grandson.
      