
        Robert G. Engel, a retired executive of J. P. Morgan & Company, died Tuesday night in El Paso while visiting friends. Mr. Engel, who was president of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, was 61 and lived in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J., and Manhattan.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. He was en route to a board meeting of the Raychem Corporation in Menlo Park, Calif.
        Mr. Engel's final assignment at J. P. Morgan was as group executive and senior adviser to the corporate office. He filled it from January 1990 until mid-1991, when he took early retirement after 36 years with the financial holding company.  Worked Closely With Bishop
        In January of this year he became president of the Cathedral Church -- the church's highest lay position, dealing with financial and business matters -- as well as chairman of the executive committee of the board of trustees. Since then he had spent much of his time on church affairs, working closely with Richard F. Grein, Episcopal Bishop of New York, and Dean James Parks Morton.
        His present or past directorships included the Trinity Church, the Rochefeller Group, the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and the Cornell University Medical College Board of Overseers. At Cornell University he served as chairman of its Investment Conservancy and was on the board of trustees from 1971 until two months ago.
        Robert Gehrels Engel, a native of Hackensack, N.J., was a 1953 chemical engineering graduate of Cornell, where he played varsity football. He worked for the Corning Glass Works for two years and served in the Army Counterintelligence Corps in Fort Meade, Md., before joining J. P. Morgan's general banking division as an assistant treasurer in 1957. He concurrently studied at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business for two years but did not graduate. Overseas Operations
        Following J. P. Morgan's merger with the Guaranty Trust Company in 1959, he moved to the international banking division and established the international finance management unit to help American concerns in their overseas operations. He continued to rise in the corporate ranks, stationed in the United States and in London.
        By 1979 he was an executive vice president and head of the treasurer's office at New York headquarters. In 1987 he became group executive for strategic planning and research, and then accepted additional responsibilities for overseeing the nonbank subsidiaries ot the holding company.
        Since retiring from J. P. Morgan, he had served as a senior advisor to Dillon Read & Company and as chairman and chief executive of Allied Capital Partners.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane Virginia Coe Engel; two daughters, Jennifer Engel Young of Ithaca, N.Y., and Elizabeth Hunter Engel of Manhattan; a son, Robert A., also of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      