
        Charles B. Brakefield, a retired national executive in the radio and television industry, died yesterday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 73 and lived in Hernando, Miss.
        The cause was cancer, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Brakefield retired in 1985 as president of The New York Times Company Broadcasting Group and vice president of The New York Times Company, its parent. The company then had three television stations and an AM-FM radio station.
        Earlier he served as president of the Broadcast Division of Cowles Communications and vice president and a board member of Cowles Communications, from 1968 to 1971.
        In the 1970's he was elected to four terms as board chairman of the national CBS-TV Affiliates. He was also a past chairman of the Television Bureau of Advertising. Began as Station Salesman
        He began in the broadcasting industry as a salesman for WREC radio in Memphis in 1951. He became general manager of the company in 1963, succeeding his father-in-law, Hoyt Wooten, who had founded the station.
        Mr. Brakefield helped guide WREC's expansion in the early years of television and oversaw its relocation from a cramped basement studio to a site overlooking the Mississippi River. His posts included general sales manager, vice president, executive vice president and president.
        He joined The Times Company's management in 1972 after it bought the Memphis television station from Cowles and changed its call letters to WREG.
        Mr. Brakefield was a past president of the Tennessee Association of Broadcasters and a board member of the Memphis Bank and Trust. He served as chairman of LeMoyne-Owen College and its United Negro College Fund Drive. He was also on the boards of the Memphis State University Foundation, Liberty Bowl Association, Christian Brothers College and Brooks Memorial Art Gallery.
        Mr. Brakefield was born in Medina, Tenn., and studied at Memphis State University. In World War II he served as a pilot in the United States Army Air Corps in Asia. He was promoted to captain and was awarded a Distinguished Flying Cross and an Air Medal with cluster.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Arabia Wooten; his mother, Glynne, of Memphis; a son, Michael, of Memphis; a daughter, Betsy Bramlett of South Haven, Miss.; a sister, Virginia McBride of Memphis, and six grandchildren.
      