
        Stewart Granger, the handsome leading man in more than 60 films, including adventure tales like "King Solomon's Mines" and "The Last Safari," died on Monday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
        The cause was prostate and bone cancer, said his agent, Sid Craig.
        Mr. Granger, whose real name was James Lablanche Stewart, was born in London and attended Epsom College. He briefly considered studying medicine, but he changed his mind and entered the Webber-Douglas School of Dramatic Art in London.
        After working in repertory theater in Hull and Birmingham, England, he took the role of Captain Hamilton in "The Sun Never Sets" at the Drury Lane Theater in London in 1938. This successful debut was followed by an appearance opposite Vivien Leigh in "Serena Blandish."
        After taking a screen test, he made his film debut as the juvenile lead in "So This Is London" in 1938. The next year, he joined the Old Vic Company.
        He served with the Black Watch Regiment from 1940 to 1942, when he was invalided out. Success on the Screen
        After the war, Mr. Granger became one of Britain's leading romantic screen stars, appearing in "The Man in Gray" (1943), "Fanny by Gaslight" (1944), "Caesar and Cleopatra" (1946) and other films.
        He came to the United States in 1950 to star in "King Solomon's Mines," changing his name to avoid being confused with the film star James Stewart.
        Executives at M-G-M were so impressed by his performance that they cast him as the virile leading man in a series of romantic swashbuckling films, including a 1953 remake of "The Prisoner of Zenda" and "Salome" (1953). He played in dozens of romantic films, including "Scaramouche" (1952), "Beau Brummel" (1954) and "Bhowani Junction" (1956).
        He became a United States citizen in 1956 but continued to star in films in Europe, including "Sodom and Gomorrah" (1961) and "Requiem for a Secret Agent" (1966). More recently, he starred in "The Wild Geese" (1978), a film about mercenaries in Africa.
        In a 1970 interview, Mr. Granger delivered a harsh judgment on his film career. "Stewart Granger was quite a successful film star," he said, "but I don't think he was an actor's actor." Only one film pleased him, he said, "Waterloo Road," a British film made in 1944, in which he played the heavy.
        He pointed with pride, however, to his work on the English stage. When asked if he would like to return to the theater, he said: "Too lazy. The theater's hard work." Late Bloomer on Broadway
        As his film career began to wane in the 1970's, Mr. Granger turned to television. He was among the many actors to portray Sherlock Holmes, starring in a 1972 television movie of "The Hound of the Baskervilles," and he played the owner of the Shiloh ranch in the last season of "The Virginian" in 1970 and 1971. In 1991, he played an aging Hollywood actor in an episode of the CBS series "Gabriel's Fire."
        Despite his early experience on the British stage, Mr. Granger did not make his Broadway debut until 1989, in a revival of Somerset Maugham's play "The Circle" with Rex Harrison and Glynis Johns. He stayed with the play when it moved to London, acting opposite Rosemary Harris.
        In 1981, he published his autobiography, "Sparks Fly Upward."
        Mr. Granger was married and divorced three times. His first wife was the actress Elspeth March, the second Jean Simmons, the third Viviane Lecerf. He is survived by three daughters, Tracy, of Los Angeles, Lindsay, of London, and Samantha, of Paris, and a son, James, of Rio de Janeiro.
      