
        Eddie Chiles, the outspoken oil man who owned the Texas Rangers from 1980 to 1989, died Sunday night at his home in Fort Worth. He was 83.
        He had been in declining health since suffering a stroke a year ago and died in his sleep, his family said.
        Until he bought the Rangers from Brad Corbett in 1980, Harrell Edmonds Chiles was little known outside the Southwest, but in the oil patch he was something of a folk hero.
        That was partly because Mr. Chiles, who grew up in Itasca, Tex., and worked as a merchant seaman in his youth, worked his way through the University of Oklahoma and parlayed a degree in petroleum engineering into a fortune providing services and equipment to drillers. The Western Company of North America, which he founded in 1939 with two trucks and three employees, grew into a $500 million business with more than 5,000 employees.
        As a businessman, he shared his views in the late 1970's, usually about some government affront to business, through a series of radio commercials in which he proclaimed, 'I'm Eddie Chiles, and I'm mad." The commercials were broadcast on 650 stations in 14 states where Western had operations and spawned almost a million bumper stickers reading, "I'm mad too, Eddie."
        In baseball he proved no less outspoken. He publicly chastised Commissioner Bowie Kuhn for his handling of the 1981 baseball strike and the next year he cast a critical vote that brought the commissioner's tenure to an end.
        As a hands-on owner, he streamlined the Rangers' front office, eventually turning a money-losing operation into a profitable enterprise, largely, perhaps, because the team had one of the lowest payrolls in baseball.
        Mounting losses in his oil business led Chiles to sell his 58 percent interest in the Rangers to a group headed by George W. Bush Jr. in March 1989, but not before Mr. Chiles had signed Nolan Ryan to a one-year, $2 million contract.
        Mr. Chiles is survived by his wife, Fran; a son, Jerry Edmond Chiles, and a daughter, Carol Ann Ballard, both of Houston; a granddaughter; two sisters, Jane Dougherty of Philadelphia and Charlotte Lewis of Dallas, and a brother, Clay, of Houston.
      