
        Dr. F. Merlin Bumpus, a researcher at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation noted for his work on high blood pressure, died at the clinic on Aug. 8. He was 70 and lived in Moreland Hills, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland.
        The cause was coronary artery disease, the clinic said.
        In recent years, Dr. Bumpus's basic research resulted in the production of drugs for use as inhibitors and blockers in the treatment of high blood pressure, heart disease, heart failure and arteriosclerosis.
        A native of Rome, Ky., Francis Merlin Bumpus graduated from Purdue University and received an M.S. and a Ph.D. in organic chemistry from the University of Wisconsin. He joined the Cleveland Clinic in 1949 to work with Dr. Irvine H. Page, who played a large part in making the clinic a leading center of research in his field. Dr. Page helped shape the modern understanding and treatment of high blood pressure and heart attacks. Fighting Hypertension
        Dr. Bumpus joined him in identifying and isolating crucial compounds in the body that affect blood pressure. This helped unravel the complex nature of hypertension and dispel the widely held notion that there was a single agent that caused high blood pressure.
        The two scientists led a team that in 1957 synthesized angiotensin, a substance in the blood that causes blood vessels to constrict and blood pressure to rise. Dr. Page died of a heart attack in 1991 at the age of 90.
        But Dr. Bumpus continued to make significant discoveries on the role of the renin angiotensin system and its bearing on high blood pressure. Renin is an enzyme made and stored in the kidney that affects blood pressure.
        At the Cleveland Clinic, Dr. Bumpus served as scientific director of cardiovascular research, and was chairman of the Research Institute from 1967 to 1984. At his death he was also president of the Coronary Club, which publishes Heartline, a periodical that counsels heart attack patients. He was the author of 220 publications and a recipient of numerous awards and honors.
        Dr. Bumpus's first wife, Hale, died in 1977. He is survived by his wife, Lynda Ellitoo Bumpus; two sons, Peter, of Sarasota, Fla., and Roger, of Brescia, Italy; two daughters, Ashley Carr of Chicago, and Summerson Carr of Shizugawa, Japan; and a granddaughter.
      