
        Hans Lowey, who transformed oral medication by inventing pills that prolong a drug's release over many hours, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        Mr. Lowey was a self-taught "kitchen chemist" who experimented with formulas on the stove at home and turned them into marketable products. His concept of time-release or sustained-action pills is now widely applied in medications for many illnesses.
        He developed the process in the early 1950's to prevent the nausea that soldiers in the Korean War often suffered when taking large-dose salt tablets to help retain water. By coating the salt with cellulose, he extended digestion of the tablets to as long as 12 hours, and the gradual absorption prevented the side effects.
        Attempts to prolong drug release beyond 12 hours were initially stymied by the body's natural elimination of the stomach's contents. In 1987, Mr. Lowey circumvented that problem by developing a material that bonds with the stomach wall until the medicine is absorbed.
        Mr. Lowey was born in Vienna. He began working in the textile business and was active in sports as a boxing coach and a skier. In 1939, the Nazis arrested Mr. Lowey, who was Jewish, and put him onto a train to a concentration camp, but a guard recognized him and let him escape.
        Making his way to the United States, he bought the bankrupt Acme Tablet Company and began his pharmaceutical career. He founded Forest Laboratories in Manhattan and served as its chairman and chief executive officer. A major product was time-release nitroglycerin tablets, used to prevent angina attacks.
        After his retirement, Mr. Lowey continued his research, won new patents and recently worked on a stomach coating to help sufferers of colitis.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Rosl Irom; two daughters, Janet Edelman and Sue Fankhauser, both of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a brother, Frederick of Queens, and four grandchildren.
      