
        Count Edward Raczynski, a Polish diplomat who was Foreign Minister in the Polish Government-in-exile in London during part of the Nazi occupation of his homeland in World War II, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 101.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his nephew Richard Rodzinski of Fort Worth. He said Count Raczynski, whose eyesight had failed years before, had been dictating some reminiscences until three days before his death and then grew weaker.
        Count Razcynski (pronounced ra-CHEEN-skee) was the Polish Ambassador to Britain from 1934 to 1945 and a prominent figure in the diplomacy of the last days before World War II.
        While continuing as Ambassador, he also served as Acting Foreign Minister in the exile Government in 1941 and 1942 and as Minister of State in charge of foreign affairs in 1942 and 1943. Signed Pact With Britain
        Earlier, it was the Count who, as Ambassador to Britain, signed the Aug. 25, 1939, treaty in which Britain guaranteed assistance to Poland against German aggression. The London Daily Telegraph observed yesterday that he had "worked smoothly to bring off the Anglo-Polish alliance."
        On Sept. 1, 1939, Nazi Germany invaded Poland and World War II began. On Sept. 3, Britain declared war on Germany, and all the British Commonwealth countries, except Ireland, quickly followed suit.
        In July 1945, the Count was informed by the British Government that it no longer recognized him and his Government, still based in London, which had been supported by the Western allies in World War II.
        The British shift was a consequence of the Yalta Conference earlier that year, at which the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union had agreed on recognizing a reorganized form of the rival Polish Government that was supported by the Soviet Union.
        The Count went on to be President of the anti-Communist Polish Government-in-exile in London from 1979 to 1986. The current Polish President, Lech Walesa, visited him in London in 1991.
        Count Edward Bernard Andre Maria Racszynski was born Dec. 19, 1891, into a landowning family that had established a sumptuous library in the Polish city of Poznan. He studied at the universities of Cracow and Leipzig and the London School of Economics.
        He began his diplomatic career in 1919 and served in Copenhagen, London and Warsaw. He was a delegate to the Geneva Disarmament Conference from 1932 to 1934 and concurrently was accredited to the League of Nations, with the rank of Minister, before becoming Ambassador to Britain. Diaries Are Published
        A volume of his World War II diaries, "In Allied London," was published in English in the United States in 1965. He also wrote two books of reminiscences and other works that appeared only in Polish.
        He married JoyousMarkham in 1925 and she died in 1930. He married Cecile Jaroszynska in 1932 and she died in 1962.
        Count Raczynski is survived by his third wife, the former Aniela Mieczyslawska, whom he married in 1991; three daughters from his second marriage, Wanda Dembinska and Catherine Raczynska, both of London, and Countess Wiridiana Rey of Paris; and three grandchildren.
      