
        Arthur C. Bass, an entrepreneur and corporate executive who helped the Federal Express Corporation start its door-to-door overnight delivery service, died on Sunday at his home in Memphis. He was 61.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Illness forced Mr. Bass to resign in April as vice chairman of the Cooper Companies, which is based in Fort Lee, N.J., a diversified health care and medical equipment group. He joined Cooper in 1989 as chief executive and a board member.
        A native of New York City, Arthur Charles Bass graduated from Middlebury College, where he played on the basketball team. He did postgraduate work at New York Law School after serving as a Marine Corps helicopter pilot in the 1950's.
        From 1965 to 1971, he was president of the Aerospace Advance Planning Group in New York. He also wrote for aviation magazines and was an aviation consultant.
        He joined Federal Express in Memphis shortly after it was founded in 1972 by Frederick W. Smith, its chairman, president and chief executive, and helped Mr. Smith get his pioneering overnight service airborne. He left in 1982, when he was vice chairman for advance projects and research.
        From Federal Express, Mr. Bass went to Midway Airlines. As chairman and chief executive he orchestrated its growth from no-frills service to the comforts of business travel. He also helped the fortunes of Midway Airport. Though closer to downtown Chicago, it had long been eclipsed by the newer O'Hare International.
        He returned to Memphis in 1985 as chairman and chief executive of Starmark Energy Systems Inc., a waste-recovery company. He remained with the company until moving to Cooper in 1989.
        Cooper released him after a year so that he could go back to the air freight business as head of ailing Emery Worldwide, newly acquired by Consolidated Freightways of California. He soon left Emery and worked as a consultant until he rejoined Cooper as acting chairman.
        Mr. Bass is survived by his wife, Paula Campbell Bass; four sons, Cole, Kaolin and Brandon, all of Memphis, and Robert, of Charlotte, N.C., and a foster daughter, Brandi Clarkson of Memphis.
      