
        Raymond T. McKay, a founder of the American Maritime Officers union and its president for the last 36 years, died on Monday at a hospital in Miami. Mr. McKay, who lived in Bay Harbor Island, Fla., was 68.
        He died of heart failure, a union announcement said.
        The union has 5,000 members, including licensed engine, deck and radio officers. They work in United States commercial and military charter shipping on international as well as domestic routes, and on vessels ranging from tugboats to passenger liners.
        Mr. McKay, who was born in Manhattan, was a graduate of the Merchant Marine Officers Candidate School.
        His career got off to a perilous start in World War II, when he shipped out as an engineer on a supply run to the Soviet Union. His maiden voyage, on the S.S. Fairfield City, ended when the ship was torpedoed by a German submarine and sank off Florida. Allied With Seafarers Union
        In 1949 he helped organize the maritime officers union, which was then called the Brotherhood of Marine Engineers and allied with the Seafarers International Union of North America, headed by Paul Hall. The union, which changed its name last year, was previously known as District 2 of the Marine Engineer Beneficial Association-Associated Maritime Officers.
        "My office was the trunk of my car," Mr. McKay once said, recalling his early days as a union leader. He moved up from a union representative to become a director of the union's pension and welfare fund, and became president in 1957. Two years later the union merged with several locals of the Marine Engineer Beneficial Association and went through several other name and jurisdictional changes.
        Mr. McKay also served as vice president of the marine engineers union and as president of the Greater South Florida Maritime Trades Council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and was a delegate of the International Transport Workers Federation.
        Among the union benefits he won were fully paid health insurance, pension entitlements after 20 years of work, college scholarships for the children of the union's members and training and licensing programs for promotions.
        When the Vietnam War put a strain on shipping, Mr. McKay developed training programs to provide more officers. He also proposed establishing the ship simulation training center that is now operating in Dania, Fla., where the union has its headquarters. Union officials say it is the most advanced such center in the world.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 50 years, the former Frances Kelly, who is known as Dolly; three sons, Michael, of Sunrise, Fla., secretary-treasurer of the maritime officers union, Thomas, of Orangeburg, N.Y., and Robert, of Park Ridge, N.J., who is vice president of the union's deep sea division; a daughter, Celia Ann Rebadow of Margate, Fla.; a brother, Donald, of Palm Coast, Fla., 15 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      