
        George M. Brooker, a real-estate executive who served on New York City and state boards and led civic causes, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 67 and lived in New Rochelle. N.Y.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Brooker was president of Webb & Brooker, a brokerage and management firm for residential and commercial property.
        He was vice president of the New York Building Congress and Real Estate Board of New York and a director of the New York University Institute of Real Estate Management, Rent Stabilization Association, Realty Advisory Board and Realty Foundation of New York.
        During the city's fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, Gov. Hugh L. Carey appointed him to the Municipal Assistance Corporation, where he served until his death. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo placed him on the Commission on Real Estate.
        Mayor John V. Lindsay named him to the Rehabilitation Mortgage Insurance Corporation, and Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed him to the Central Park Conservancy and Small Retail Business Study Commission. He was also a friend of Mayor David N. Dinkins. Urban League Chairman
        Mr. Brooker was chairman of the New York Urban League, joined a 1984 coalition of black and Jewish leaders and served on the boards of WNET-TV and the Regional Plan Association.
        His pet project was the improvement of Harlem, where he had his headquarters and was a founder and president of the Harlem Business Alliance.
        Born in Allendale, S.C., he grew up in Philadelphia. He served as a corporal in the United States Army during its occupation of Germany.
        He studied music at Howard University and started as a singer in New York. To better support his family, he went to a state employment office and got a job at the State Rent Control Commission. He volunteered as the commissioner's chauffeur and eventually became a hearing examiner.
        After studying real estate, he went into business in 1959. By 1967 he rose to vice president of Mark Rafalsky & Company as one of the industry's first black executives.
        He was married for 32 years to the former Jeanne Barbee until they divorced.
        His survivors include his mother, Lumisher, of Yeadon, Pa.; two sons, George Jr., of the Bronx, and Jeffrey, of Manhattan; five brothers, Mack Jr., Robert, Clifton, Arnold and Mose, all of Philadelphia; a sister, Vivian Ford of Yeadon, and a grandson.
      