
        Louis Sheaffer, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer of the playwright Eugene O'Neill, died early Saturday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn Heights.
        The cause was heart failure, said his niece, Michele Slung, who said he had been in declining health for the last year.
        Mr. Sheaffer, whose name was originally Louis Slung, changed his name to Sheaffer (pronounced SHAFE-er) and sometimes called himself Louis Sheaffer Slung.
        He won the Pulitzer Prize in biography in 1974 for "O'Neill, Son and Artist," which came out in 1973 as the second of two volumes, on which he had worked for 16 years. The first volume, "O'Neill, Son and Playwright" (Athena), appeared in 1968. Tracing a Writer's Pain
        The two books won critical praise as being "commanding." In them and elsewhere, Mr. Sheaffer affirmed that the playwright's work was deeply influenced by his complex, painful relationships with his father, an actor with a fondness for whisky, and with his nervous mother, who became addicted to morphine.
        In a 1973 article in The New York Times, Mr. Sheaffer described O'Neill, who died in 1953, as "an emotional hemophiliac whose family-inflicted wounds remained raw and aching" and said, "His wounds, his utter vulnerability, were a prime source of the passion and anguish that pound through his plays."
        Mr. Sheaffer grew up in Louisville, Ky., where he was born, and attended the University of North Carolina. He worked for the newspaper The Brooklyn Eagle from 1934 to 1955, with time out for Army service in World War II, and was successively a reporter, a film critic and a drama critic. In 1955 and 1956 he was a theatrical press agent.
        He was a Guggenheim fellow three times and received grants from the American Council of Learned Societies and the National Endowment for the Humanities. The first volume of his O'Neill biography won a George Freedley Award from the Theater Library Association.
        In addition to his niece, a writer and editor who lives in Washington, Mr. Sheaffer is survived by a brother, Rafael Slung of Pompano Beach, Fla.
      