
        Two Americans ranked among the world's leading field biologists were killed on Tuesday when an airplane they were using to make a tree-top survey of the Ecuadorean coast crashed into a cloud shrouded mountain.
        They were Theodore A. Parker 3d, a 40-year-old ornithologist and senior scientist for Conservation International, and Alwyn Gentry, 48, a botanist and senior curator at the Missouri Botanical Garden.
        Three other people also died in the crash, including Eduardo Aspiazu, an Equadorean ecologist who heads the Guayaquil chapter of the Nature Foundation.
        Their deaths were reported Wednesday after Mr. Parker's fiance, Jacqueline Goerck, who suffered a broken ankle in the crash, managed to limp five hours through a rugged mountainous area before returning by air to Guayaquil. Identifying 4,000 Species
        Scientists familiar with the work of both Americans said their deaths were major losses in their fields. Mr. Parker was widely regarded as one of the world's leading ornithologists, and was renowned for his ability to identify nearly 4,000 species of birds by their sound alone. John O'Neill, an ornithologist at Louisiana State University, where Mr. Parker was a research associate at the Museum of National Science, said of his colleague: "There was no one like him out there. He knew birds better than any living person."
        Dr. Gentry was an expert in tropical plants and had collected about 70,000 specimens, more than any other living botanist, according to Conservation International. His knowledge of woody tropical plants, about which he recently published a major volume, was regarded by scientists as unsurpassed.
        Dr. Peter H. Raven, the director of the Missouri Botanical Garden, said Dr. Gentry "was undoubtedly the most knowledgeable person in the world about the flora of Latin America."
        Referring to the hazardous tree-top flight that killed them, Dr. Raven told The Associated Press that "it's always a risk in this business, and these guys pushed the envelope as much as anybody." A Low-Level Flight
        Russell Mittermeier, president of Conservation International in Washington, said the two scientists were making a low-level flight 350 miles southwest of Quito as part the organization's program to survey quickly the biological diversity of previously unmapped areas in the tropics.
        "Ted and Al carried two-thirds of the unpublished knowledge of neotropical biodiversity, especially the tropical Andes, in their heads," Mr. Mittermeier said in a statement. "We have lost friends and colleagues whose biological and conservation knowledge is irreplaceable. They knew firsthand what others only theorized."
        Peter Seligmann, chairman of Conservation International, said both scientists were "pioneers" who together constituted "an unmatchable reservoir of knowledge."
        The nonprofit organization, which specializes in research in tropical countries, seeks to find ways in which nature and people can better coexist. The organization's Rapid Assessment Program was to survey the biological diversity. Adapting Field Techniques
        The survey program, established by Mr. Parker four years ago, blends traditional field techniques with the latest technology to survey a region's system of plants and animals and then recommend ways to protect them. Much of the program's attention in recent years has centered on so-called tropical hotspots that are being threatened by encroachment or destruction. The program's first pilot survey was conducted in a remote rain forest in the northern region of Bolivia in 1991.
        Brent Bailey, a program manager for the survey, said that when he and Mr. Parker took off in a small airplane in Bolivia, "He turned around and said to me, I have the best job in the world."
        Mr. Bailey said that both men pioneered aerial surveys of uncharted regions and that both were aware of the risks such flights posed. "They knew, but it never stopped them," he said.
        Mr. Parker was born in Lancaster, Pa., and graduated in 1977 from the University of Arizona. Beginning in 1988, he conducted ornithological surveys in just about every Latin American country, from Peru to Caribbean grasslands and remote Amazon jungles. Combing Through Trees
        In his book, "Prowling Through Peru Seeking Birds to Name," Gerald Gold described the adventures of Mr. Parker and a colleague as they combed through trees and bushes for exotic species.
        Mr. Parker is survived by his parents, Theodore and Dorothy Parker, of Lancaster, and by a brother and sister.
        Dr. Gentry was born in Clay Center, Kan., and received degrees from Kansas State University and the University of Wisconsin. He received a Ph.D. from Washington University in St. Louis.
        In a paper published in 1988 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, he reported that the tropical rain forests in the upper Amazon may contain the world's greatest diversity of tree species.
        He also took part in studies designed to save the natural forests of Paraguay in general and in particular in its Mbaracayu region.
        Dr. Gentry is survived by his wife, Rosa Ortiz de Gentry, two daughters, and one son.
      