
        Dr. Donald William Kerst, a builder of particle accelerators used in exploring the atomic nature of matter, died yesterday at University Hospital and Clinics in Madison, Wis. He was 81.
        The hospital said the cause was a brain tumor.
        Dr. Kerst, a faculty member in the physics department of the University of Wisconsin at Madison from 1962 until his retirement in 1980, was best known for his invention of the betatron during World War II.
        The betatron was a device used for several years to accelerate electron beams for probing the inner structure of atoms and subatomic particles. After the betatron became obsolete for physics research, several versions of the machine were used therapeutically to accelerate electrons into cancerous tumors.
        The betatron, a kind of transformer in which the primary coil was a wire-wrapped iron core and the secondary output was the electron beam itself, achieved energies up to about 300 million electron-volts in its final versions. That was paltry by later standards but useful at the time. The impact of its electron beam produced pi mesons, particles that exchange force between protons and neutrons in atomic nuclei. Work Was a Precursor
        But above the energy achieved by Dr. Kerst's invention, electrons accelerated by such a system emit so much waste energy in the form of synchrotron radiation that beam energy could never be significantly increased. That limitation led to different designs by other physicists that superseded the betatron.
        Dr. Wolfgang H. Panofsky, director emeritus of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in California, described the betatron as an important interim step in accelerator design. It was soon superseded by the synchrotron type accelerator.
        Dr. Kerst also made contributions to industrial X-ray technology and to the understanding of plasma -- electrically charged gas -- of the kind that may one day be a source of thermonuclear fusion energy.
        He was born on Nov. 1, 1911, in Galena, Ill., and was educated at the University of Wisconsin, where he was awarded a B.A. degree in 1934 and a Ph.D. in 1937.
        During his subsequent professorship at the University of Illinois, Dr. Kerst worked on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb. After World War II he worked as technical director of the Midwest University Research Association, and in 1957 he joined the General Dynamics Corporation's General Atomic Division. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, which awarded him its Comstock Prize in 1943.
        After his retirement in 1980, Dr. Kerst lived in Fort Myers, Fla.
        He is survived by two children, Marilyn Kerst Sipe and Stephen M. Kerst.
      