
        William Edgar Stafford, a western poet and educator, died on Saturday at his home in Lake Oswego, Ore. He was 79.
        The cause was myocardial arrhythmia, his family said.
        Over three decades, Mr. Stafford published collections of his work, establishing himself as a vigorous, independent voice in American poetry. Both his life and his writing looked westward or to the Northwest, and he found his themes in small-town family life and in nature.
        His work was infused with the vast expanses of desert and prairie, mountain ranges and sky. His response to the world, critics noted, came in lines that focused each poem on a single objective. He seemed a private, but not alienated, citizen of his universe.
        At his death, he was poet laureate emeritus of Oregon, having served as the state's poet laureate from 1975 until his retirement three years ago. He was the poetry consultant to the Library of Congress in 1970, advising on its literary collections and meeting with visiting scholars and poets. A Professor of English
        He became associated with Lewis and Clark College in Portland in 1948. He served as professor of English from 1960 to 1980, and had been professor emeritus since then.
        "William Stafford was an Oregon treasure," said Gov. Barbara Roberts. "His ability to express so well what many of us felt, and his keen understanding of the nature that surrounds us, made him a remarkable Oregonian."
        He won the National Book Award for Poetry in 1962 with "Traveling Through the Dark," an anthology of restrained, introspective and mostly brief poems and emotional cameos. His many other honors included an American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters Literature Award in 1981, and the Melville Cane Award, 1974, for "Some Day, Maybe."
        Mr. Stafford was born in Hutchinson, Kan. He graduated from the University of Kansas, where he also earned an M.A. degree. During World War II, he was a conscientious objector as a member of the Church of the Brethren and worked in civilian public-service camps.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Dorothy Hope Frantz; a son, Kim, of Portland; two daughters, Kit Stafford of Bend, Ore., and Barbara Wilson of Portland, and several grandchildren.
      