
        Gunther van Well, the West German Ambassador to the United States from 1984 to 1987, died Saturday in a hospital in Bonn. He was 72 and had lived in Bonn since his return from Washington and retirement.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. van Well took charge of his country's Embassy in Washington after three years as representative of the Federal Republic at the United Nations. His most trying moments as Bonn's chief spokesman in the United States arose from a gesture billed by the conservative leaders of the two countries as the ultimate symbol of American-German reconciliation.
        Just over a year after Mr. van Well took up his post, President Ronald Reagan and Chancellor Helmut Kohl met at a German military cemetery in the small town of Bitburg. The event became an embarrassment when it turned out that among the 2,000 graves were those of 49 soldiers of the Waffen SS, the elite Nazi Party military organization.
        Many Jewish groups, veterans organizations and a majority of the House of Representatives protested, writing that the visit would have "the unintended effect of reopening painful wounds in the United States." Mr. Reagan and Mr. Kohl nevertheless kept to their agenda for that May day in 1985, and it was largely left to Mr. van Well to calm the ensuing outcry.
        Later that month he became the first West German official to be invited to address B'nai B'rith International, mostly because of Bitburg. He urged renewed efforts to build bridges between his country and American Jews. By all accounts his reception was cordial and his hosts considered the invitation a step toward that end after the setback of Bitburg.
        Mr. van Well was born in the town of Osterath, near Krefeld. He was a graduate of Bonn University in economics and of the Diplomatic School in Bonn. He entered the Federal Foreign Office in 1952 as an attache. Service at U.N. in 1950's
        He was posted to the West German Mission at the United Nations from 1954 to 1959, during which time, as Second Secretary, he married Carolyn Stevens Bradley of Short Hills, N.J. His career then took him back to Bonn, to Harvard University for advanced studies, to Tokyo and once again to the Foreign Office in Bonn, where he rose to Director General for Political for Political Affairs and State Secretary. He took the post at the United Nations in 1981.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. van Well is survived by their daughter, Kirsten van Well of Cologne; their son Mark, of Bonn, and a sister, Inge Heinen of Krefeld.
      