
       Carmelita Maracci, a leading American ballet teacher and noted performer, died at her home in Hollywood on July 26 after a long illness. She was 75 years old.
        Carmelita Maracci, a leading American ballet teacher and noted performer, died at her home in Hollywood on July 26 after a long illness. She was 75 years old.
        Miss Maracci was the chief teacher of Cynthia Gregory, a principal dancer at American Ballet Theater. Other pupils, in a teaching career that spanned some 50 years, included Leslie Caron, Geraldine and Charles Chaplin, Erik Bruhn, Jerome Robbins, Agnes de Mille, Donald Saddler, Gerald Arpino and Christine Sarry. But Miss Maracci was even better known as ''one of the major dance figures of our time,'' in the words of Walter Terry, the dance writer, until several career setbacks in the late 1940's and early 50's led Miss Maracci to devote herself to the teaching she had begun in the mid-1930's.
        Official biographies state that Miss Maracci was born in Montevideo, Uruguay, but according to her husband, Lee Freeson, Miss Maracci was born in Goldfield, Nev. Her principal dance studies were in ballet, with Luigi Albertieri and Enrico Zanfretta, and Spanish dance, with Hyppolito Mora. After performing with a touring group directed by Alexis Kosloff, Miss Maracci began to experiment with choreography that was a blend of ballet and Spanish dance techniques. Spanish and Ballet Styles
        She made her debut in her own work in 1930 in Los Angeles, with a New York debut in 1937. She toured the United States with her own performing group and a repertory of her own dances. Some of her touring was done under the aegis of Sol Hurok, but she broke with him in 1946. The mixed reception accorded her ''Circo de Espana,'' a suite of dances created for Ballet Theater in 1951, was a further blow that led her to devote herself exclusively to teaching.
        ''Here is a mistress of ballet technique and style who never dances ballet, of Spanish dance who never does Spanish dances,'' John Martin, a dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1946. ''Both styles are merely materials out of which she fashions an art that is altogether personal, purely subjective in its creative approach, and utterly unique.''
        Ms. Gregory has recalled class with Miss Maracci teaching ''on pointe and wearing pink tights, puffing on a cigarette, flicking it out the window and dashing off a fast, furious set of pirouettes.'' Though afflicted with arthritis, Miss Maracci taught in studios throughout Hollywood until 1985. ''She was a person who believed in context and motivation,'' Donna Perlmutter, a West Coast dance writer and longtime student with Miss Maracci, said yesterday. ''Every class of hers was really a performance. She lived in a world of people who came to sit at her feet -and stand at the barre but be imaginative.''
        Passionately opinionated, Miss Maracci taught classes with a Socratic tinge, including talk of politics and the other arts of the time. She continued teaching during her last illness by gathering students around her bedside to talk with them of the art of ballet.
        Miss Maracci is survived by her husband.
      