
       Harold R. McCluskey, a chemical technician who suffered what is believed to be the largest human dose of radiation ever recorded when a nuclear contamination accident occurred nearly 11 years ago, died Monday in Puyallup, Wash. He was 75 years old.
        Harold R. McCluskey, a chemical technician who suffered what is believed to be the largest human dose of radiation ever recorded when a nuclear contamination accident occurred nearly 11 years ago, died Monday in Puyallup, Wash. He was 75 years old.
        The cause of death has yet to be determined, according to a spokesman for the Good Samaritan Hospital, where he died.
        Mr. McCluskey was working near a vat containing the isotope americium-241, a radioactive metallic element that was being extracted from reactor waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation near Richland, Wash., when a sealed compartment exploded in his face on Aug. 30, 1976.
        The explosion showered Mr. McCluskey and nine other workers with americium, acid, glass and metal shards. Within minutes, Mr. McCluskey had absorbed the largest dose of americium ever sustained by a nuclear worker, more than 500 times the radiation that would be safe over a lifetime, according to Dr. Bryce Breitenstein, the physician who supervised Mr. McCluskey's treatment.
        ''There has never been a case even remotely close to this,'' said Dr. Breitenstein, the director of the Hanford Environmental Health Foundation. In Isolation for 5 Months
        Americium-241 is similar to plutonium in its biological effects and has caused severe cancer to animals in various studies, but Dr. Breitenstein said, ''To my knowledge, Mr. McCluskey never developed cancer.''
        Mr. McCluskey, who attributed his survival to ''good care and our Creator,'' was said to have been suffering from a heart-related ailment when he entered the hospital late last week.
        To avoid contaminating others, Mr. McCluskey was kept in a steel and concrete isolation tank for five months after the accident, approached only by doctors wearing protective clothing.
        He was washed repeatedly and injected with an experimental chemical agent to help flush the americium from his blood system. After more than 600 applications of the agent, about 95 percent of the americium had been removed, Dr. Breitenstein said.
        The accident left Mr. McCluskey's face scarred, his eyes damaged and his health weak. He sued the Federal Government for damages, and in 1977 he won a $275,000 settlement against the Department of Energy, which operates Hanford. The other workers contaminated in the accident were back to work within days.
        1976 RADIATION VICTIM DIES
      