
       Joseph E. Levine, one of the most successful and flamboyant producers and distributors in the history of the film industry, died yesterday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital after a short illness. He was 81 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Joseph E. Levine, one of the most successful and flamboyant producers and distributors in the history of the film industry, died yesterday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital after a short illness. He was 81 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        The term movie mogul could have been invented for him. The man who said, ''You can fool all the people if the advertising is right,'' who authorized a press release describing himself as ''a colossus towering above the lesser moguls of filmdom,'' who brought the world ''Godzilla,'' ''Attila'' and ''Hercules,'' as well as ''The Graduate,'' ''Divorce - Italian Style,'' Fellini's ''8 1/2,'' ''The Lion in Winter,'' ''Two Women,'' ''Darling,'' ''The Producers'' and ''A Bridge Too Far,'' was truly larger than life.
        He produced, bought, imported and distributed about 500 films, American and foreign. He spent staggering amounts of money to get back even more staggering amounts. He was a one-man showman-tycoon in an industry dominated by huge corporations. He helped discover such stars as Dustin Hoffman and worked successfully to get an Oscar for Sophia Loren. He promoted the careers of Marcello Mastroianni and Mel Brooks. Trappings of Power
        And he relished the accouterments of his power and fame: the obsequious retinues of hangers-on, the 96-foot yacht, the sumptuous hotel suites, the Greenwich estate, the enviable collection of paintings, the power lunches in the Pool Room of the Four Seasons, Mr. Levine's ''favorite fast-food restaurant'' below his Manhattan offices.
        When he was 69 years old, in 1974, he wrote on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times: ''I love this business which is not really a business. The film industry is composed of an indescribable collection of dreamers and schemers, geniuses and phonies, sharpshooters and lunatics. It's action on the screen and off. I hope that when my time is up, it'll happen not in bed, but in that suite in Rome, or on a plane, or on the back lot of a studio in Hollywood, Paris or London.''
        He was a late starter in the business he loved. After many lean years, his big breakthrough came in the 1950's with ''Godzilla,'' ''Attila'' and, in 1959, with an Italian loincloth-and-beefcake epic, ''Hercules.'' He flew to Rome to see it and bought it outright. Life Begins at 54
        What he saw had terrible color and a botched soundtrack, but it also had ''musclemen, broads and a shipwreck and a dragon for the kids,'' Mr. Levine said. He cleaned up the print and the sound, opened ''Hercules'' simultaneously at 624 movie houses across the country, made a bundle and was catapulted into the international big time at last. He was 54 years old. During the years that followed, at the peak of his career, the 5-foot-4-inch producer dressed expensively despite his weight of more than 200 pounds. He entertained lavishly in such habitats as the Presdential Suite of Rome's Excelsior Hotel, where he was invariably surrounded by movie stars, lawyers and film groupies of every ilk. It had been a struggle all the way.  Joseph Edward Levine was born in a Boston slum on Sept. 9, 1905, the youngest of six children of a Russian immigrant tailor. He spent his childhood hustling pennies - as newsboy, shoeshine boy, luggage carrier, whatever came to hand - to help support his mother, who was widowed once and abandoned by her second husband. He recently told an interviewer that he had known ''not one happy day'' growing up. He left school for good when he was 14 for a full-time job in a dress factory. Lose a Bar, Gain a Wife
        In the 1920's, he and two of his brothers started a basement dress shop, getting their stock on consignment. He briefly drove an ambulance, manufactured little statues of Daddy Grace, a black evangelist, and operated the Cafe Wonderbar in Boston's Back Bay. He left the restaurant business in 1937 to marry Rosalie Harrison, a singer with Rudy Vallee's band, the next year. When he became rich, he named his yacht after her. Their marriage lasted until his death nearly 50 years later.
        Within a week of their engagement, at his fiancee's insistence, the saloon went on the block. Mr. Levine was soon running a movie house in New Haven and eventually became a successful if small-time distributor and exhibitor throughout New England.
        He bought decrepit Westerns at bargain rates. He saw people standing in line in a snowstorm to see a sex-hygiene film called ''Body Beautiful.'' ''It made me sick,'' he recalled later. ''So I bought it.'' He booked it into a theater in a small Maine town and raked in customers. Secret of Double Bills
        During World War II, Mr. Levine leased a film shot in China called ''Ravaged Earth.'' Taking advantage of the temper of the times, and using language that would later be considered offensive, he rented the Shubert Theater in Boston and splurged on advertisements he wrote himself. One of his headlines shrieked, ''Jap Rats Stop at Nothing - See This. It Will Make You Fighting Mad.''
        Mr. Levine discovered that double bills with the same stars or similar themes, such as two Abbott and Costello movies, increased the box-office take significantly. He would even present movies together just because they had similar titles, such as ''Captain Caution'' and ''Captain Fury.'' He bought an Australian film called ''Walk Into Paradise.'' Few came to see it. So he changed the title to ''Walk Into Hell'' on the marquee. It was a smash.
        He took his first step into big-time producing in 1956, as president of Embassy Films, when he bought the Japanese monster movie ''Godzilla.'' It grossed $1 million. The next blockbuster was ''Attila'' in 1958 with Anthony Quinn and Sophia Loren. It grossed $2 million. ''Hercules'' grossed $5 million and was seen by 24 million moviegoers. Promoting Sophia Loren
        Mr. Levine started dealing in art films, often European, in the 1960's, reaching the peak of his career and his prestige during that decade and into the 1970's. In 1961, he bought ''Two Women,'' based on a novella by Alberto Moravia, directed by Vittorio de Sica and starring Sophia Loren and Eleanora Brown. They played a mother and her young daughter displaced from their home during World War II. Mr. Levine bought the North American distribution rights after seeing only three minutes of the rushes. One segment depicted Moroccan soldiers raping the two.
        He focused on one still photograph during his promotional campaign. It showed the mother, Miss Loren, in a torn dress, kneeling in the dirt and weeping with rage and grief. He predicted that she would win the Academy Award for her performance, brought her to this country for interviews, placed large advertisements in newspapers and saw to it that ''Two Women'' appeared in those cities where Oscar jury members lived.
        Miss Loren became the first person in a foreign language film to win an Oscar for best actress. It was said of Mr. Levine that he ''nursed'' the film toward its ultimate popularity and success. The Biggest Project
        Many Oscars followed for the films and stars in Mr. Levine's stable. They included Katharine Hepburn in ''The Lion in Winter'' in 1968, his favorite production. Opposite Miss Hepburn, who played Eleanor of Aquitaine, was Peter O'Toole as Henry II.
        Mr. Levine's most formidable undertaking was ''A Bridge Too Far'' (1977). The film adaptation of Cornelius Ryan's best-selling World War II novel cost $26.7 million and was shot at 146 locations in Europe under the eye of its producer. Richard Attenborough directed.
        In an interview in the summer of 1987, Mr. Levine, 81 years old and looking gaunt and frail, said he was still wheeling and dealing, with nine scripts under option. ''If only I could have 10 more healthy years,'' he said, ''I'd give up my entire bank account - because I know I could fill it up again quickly.''
        In addition to his wife, Rosalie, of Greenwich, he is survived by a son, Richard, of Greenwich, and a daughter, Tricia, and two grandchildren. A funeral service will be held at 2:30 P.M. Monday at Campbell's Funeral Home at Madison Avenue and 81st Street.
      