
       Julius Helfand, a retired Brooklyn judge who served as chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission and had a major impact on reforming boxing, died Sunday at the Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla., of complications from brain tumor surgery. He was 84 years old and lived in West Palm
        Julius Helfand, a retired Brooklyn judge who served as chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission and had a major impact on reforming boxing, died Sunday at the Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla., of complications from brain tumor surgery. He was 84 years old and lived in West Palm Beach.
        Mr. Helfand was chairman of the commission from 1955 to 1960, and conducted investigations that revealed a pattern of monopolistic control by managers who made up the International Boxing Guild, as well as fixing of boxing matches and organized-crime influence. By refusing to grant state licenses to guild-affiliated managers, Mr. Helfand set in motion investigations nationwide that eventually hobbled the guild's operations. Was a Prosecutor
        Born in Brooklyn in 1903, Mr. Helfand graduated from Boys High School and received his law degree from New York University in 1923. After practicing law and serving one term in the New York State Assembly, he joined the Brooklyn District Attorney's office in 1935. He worked on the team that prosecuted Murder Inc., but became best known for heading a five-year investigation of the link between corrupt police and a $20-million-a-year illegal gambling operation. He led an investigation in 1949 that resulted in the conviction of Harry Gross, a major bookmaker, and 10 police officers, and the resignation of the Police Commissioner, William O'Brien.
        In 1955, Gov. W. Averell Harriman appointed Mr. Helfand chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission. Within a year the silver-haired prosecutor, who was more a baseball fan than a boxing fan, began challenging the manager's guild.
        Mr. Helfand's term on the commission ended in 1960. One year later he was appointed to serve on the Criminal Court in Brooklyn. He was later named an acting State Supreme Court justice. In 1967, he presided over one of the series of trials and retrials of George Whitmore Jr., a young black man who was charged with a series of murders and rapes of white women in Brooklyn, but who was eventually cleared. Mr. Helfand retired from the court in 1971 and moved from Brooklyn to West Palm Beach in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Naomi; a son, Robert of Manhattan, and a daughter, Joan Loeb of Lake Success, L.I.
      