
       Rudolf Hess, the onetime deputy to Hitler who early in World War II parachuted into a Scottish meadow in what he called an attempt to make peace between Nazi Germany and Britain, died yesterday in West Berlin. He was 93 years old.
        Rudolf Hess, the onetime deputy to Hitler who early in World War II parachuted into a Scottish meadow in what he called an attempt to make peace between Nazi Germany and Britain, died yesterday in West Berlin. He was 93 years old.
        Hess, once one of Hitler's designated successors, was the last survivor of the 19 German officials convicted by the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg in 1946. Given a life sentence, he had been an inmate of Spandau Prison in West Berlin since 1947; for the last two decades, Hess had been Spandau's only occupant.
        Hess's son, Wolf-Rudiger, was informed by British authorities yesterday afternoon that his father died at the British Military Hospital in West Berlin. Allied officials said he was taken there earlier in the day from Spandau.
        There was no immediate report on the cause of death. Hess had been treated at the British hospital last spring for a heart condition. Prison to be Torn Down
        With Hess's death, Allied officials said Spandau Prison would be torn down.
        ''The purpose of Spandau Allied War-Crimes Prison has ceased with the death of Rudolf Hess,'' the Allied Prison Administration said in a statement. ''In accordance with the decision of representatives of Great Britain, France, the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R., the Allied Prison Administration will be terminated and the prison will be demolished.''
        Allied sources have said in the past that the prison would be demolished promptly to prevent its becoming a focus of neo-Nazi sentiments.
        A disgruntled World War I veteran, Hess became an early member of the Nazi Party and, in the 1920's, Hitler's secretary and bodyguard. He rose to be head of the party's Political Central Commission in 1932. When Hitler gained power in Germany in 1933, he made Hess his deputy as chief of the Nazi Party - formally, the National Socialist German Workers' Party - and brought him into his Cabinet as a Minister Without Portfolio. He also, in 1939, declared Hess second in the line of succession, after Hermann Goring. 'I Do Not Regret Anything'
        Hess has been called shy, bland and unintelligent by historians. He also had a reputation for dogged loyalty to Hitler, and he recalled his Nazi career proudly in a statement he made before being sentenced at Nuremberg:
        ''I am happy to know that I have done my duty to my people, my duty as a German, as a National Socialist, as a loyal follower of my Fuhrer. I do not regret anything.''
        In the last decades of his life, Hess was one of the world's best-known and most controversial inmates, particularly as the number of surviving Nazi leaders dwindled.
        Details of Hess's prison life were occasionally reported: how he suffered from pneumonia and pleurisy and, in 1977, apparently tried to kill himself; how he was sometimes sent to a British military hospital in West Berlin, and how his son visited him once a month and campaigned in vain to have him set free.
        Over the years, the United States, Britain, France and West Germany made appeals to have Hess freed on humanitarian grounds.
        The requests generated some controversy. Noting that Hess signed the infamous Nuremberg laws that stripped German Jews of their civil rights, a key event in the Holocaust, Rabbis Marvin Hier and Abraham Cooper of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, a center for the study of the Holocaust, wrote some years ago:
        ''A life sentence for this unrepentent Nazi is an act of compassion in comparison with the fate suffered by the millions who were redefined as subhuman by a stroke of Hess's pen.''
        In any event, the Soviet Union blocked Hess's freedom. One hypothesis for the refusal was that the Russians shared the widely held view that Hess had sought peace with Britain in order to strengthen Germany's hand against the Soviet Union. Hitler's invasion of the Soviet Union began only weeks after Hess's parachute jump. 'Mission of Humanity'
        It was May 10, 1941, 10 days after Hitler had fixed the time for his June attack on the Soviet Union, when Hess climbed into a fighter plane in Augsburg in southern Germany and, 800 miles later, parachuted onto the estate of the Duke of Hamilton near Glasgow.
        Hess said he was on ''a mission of humanity'' to offer peace terms to Britain. He said he hoped the Duke could influence the British Government. But after listening to a three-hour presentation of his formula, which included a proposal for a British-German venture against the Soviet Union, the British authorities imprisoned him in the Tower of London.
        Churchill called Hess's presentation ''a cock-and-bull story.'' The British Government gradually adopted the view that Hess was speaking only for himself. After Britain disclosed Hess's whereabouts, Hitler was so enraged that he ordered his former deputy's name blotted from public records.
        The Germans insisted that Hess was ''the victim of hallucinations.'' Several British and American psychiatrists contended that Hess was insane, noting his dealings with astrologers, his paranoia and his lapses of memory. Did Not Testify at Nuremberg
        Hess did not testify at Nuremberg, and did not seem to have interest in the trial. Sometimes he read a book in court, sometimes he appeared to follow the testimony; mostly he sat, apparently lost in meditation.
        In later years, historians tended to doubt that Hess was crazy. ''He just had a bee in his bonnet,' said A. J. P. Taylor, the British historian, ''a strong conviction that war between England and Germany was a mistake and that if he came over himself he could influence the British to make peace.''
        The Russians differed. Shortly after the flight, Stalin suggested that Hess had been sent to Britain as part of a German plan to rally the West against the Soviet Union.
        Dr. Felix Kersten, physician to another top Nazi leader, Heinrich Himmler, reported that in conversations before his flight, Hess seemed convinced that Germany was unconquerable and that ''he, Hess, had to stretch out his hand, to bring about a reconciliation between Germany and the other nations.''
        Hess told the British that his flight was intended to end the suffering caused by the war between Germany and Britain, which he described as potentially ''suicidal for the white race.'' He was taken aback when the British refused to receive his peace formula seriously or even to accord him diplomatic status.
        ''At that time,'' he later wrote to his wife, ''I had not the faintest idea of what - in any positive sense - could be the meaning of my being detained as a prisoner.''
        As a prisoner in Spandau, Hess seemed to have concluded that he had planned his peace appeal badly. ''I had not calculated far enough,'' he wrote, ''to realize that Churchill no longer had the power to act freely or to check the avalanche then sliding down upon us.'' Born in Egypt
        Walter Richard Rudolf Hess was born on April 26, 1894, in Alexandria, Egypt. The son of a German importer, he went on to be educated in Switzerland and Germany, specializing in economics, and he embarked on a business career that was interrupted by World War I service as an infantryman and a pilot.
        Embittered by Germany's defeat, Hess drifted to Munich and, encountering Hitler, he renewed his ties with Karl Haushofer, a pseudoscientific geographer who taught that Germany's destiny would be decided in the East. Mr. Haushofer's concepts of ''Lebensraum'' and ''Geopolitik'' were taken up by Hitler and, with racism, became central to the Nazi credo.
        Hess was captivated by Nazi theory and Hitler's charisma. He soon was telling all who would listen, ''If anyone can put Germany on her feet, it will be this fellow.''
        When the Nazi Party was formed, Hess promptly joined. His party number was 16; Hitler's was 7.
        Before long, Hess began to serve as Hitler's adjutant as well as secretary and bodyguard. Hitler and Hess were imprisoned together after the abortive coup attempt in 1923 in Munich that became known as the Beer Hall Putsch. While in prison, Hitler dictated to Hess a portion of the book ''Mein Kampf,'' which became the bible of Nazism. Kept Party in Line
        Hess's role was enlarged beginning in late 1932, when he was named head of the party's Political Central Commission. In April 1933, shortly after Hitler had become the German Chancellor, Hess was appointed deputy party leader. It was in December 1933 that he became Minister Without Portfolio.
        As the man effectively in charge of the Nazi apparatus, Hess zealously held the party in line after the defection of Gregor Strasser and in the stormy days after the bloody purge of 1934, in which Hess was one of the executioners.
        He also received a measure of international attention when Hitler sent him to Rome to seal the Axis alliance.
        The Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal found that ''as deputy to the Fuhrer, Hess was the top man in the Nazi Party with responsibility for handling all party matters and authority to make decisions in Hitler's name on all question of party leadership.''
        ''Hess,'' the ruling added, ''was an informed and willing participant in German aggression against Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland.''
        Convicted at Nuremberg of ''planning, preparing, initiating or waging aggressive war'' but acquitted of violating the rules of war and of crimes against humanity, he was spared execution. Near a Breakdown
        When World War II began in 1939, Hess apparently had few duties. Although Hitler named him second in succession, Hess's influence at the center of power diminished. Martin Bormann, Hess's assistant and later his successor, was already beginning his rise.
        Later, the Nuremberg court psychiatrist, Douglas M. Kelly, said Hess had come to be in a mental state ''not far removed from a nervous breakdown'' as early as 1940. Examining him after his flight to Scotland, psychiatrists said it had almost certainly been made from a variety of motives, mostly of a ''depressive character.''
        Other investigators said Hess was seeking to perform an act of self-sacrifice for Hitler and Germany. Some years ago Hess's wife, Ilse, said: ''I have certain knowledge that my husband desired to make a personal sacrifice without being ordered to do so, without any knowledge of this act so far as Hitler was concerned, and with a clear mind and a free will. His motive force and governing idea was simply and solely peace.''
        Another interpretation came from Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, head of the British Foreign Office in 1941. Hess, Sir Ivone said in 1959, was ''a simple, stupid'' person whose astrologer had told him he would bring peace and who thought to return to Hitler's inner circle by arranging a deal with Britain. Churchill Thought It a Joke
        Hess had prepared a set of specific terms to offer to the Duke of Hamilton in the belief that the Duke would quickly pass them on to Churchill. Landing in a meadow on the Duke's property, he was found by a farmer and taken to a hospital for treatment of an ankle fractured as he hit the ground. At first giving a false name, Hess asked to be put in touch with the Duke and then showed photographs of himself at different ages to prove that he was Rudolf Hess.
        Churchill was watching a Marx Brothers movie when the Duke phoned with the news. Churchill thought it an unfunny joke and hung up, then decided to send Sir Ivone to Scotland to investigate.
        Sir Ivone found Hess clad in gray pajamas. There was a large assortment of medicine bottles nearby, which he had brought from Germany. The Nazi spoke for three hours, but Sir Ivone's interest was no more than polite after he surmised that Hess was not representing Hitler.
        In a few days Hess, now a prisoner of war, was taken to London, where he was questioned by the Lord Chancellor, Sir John Simon. But the British declined to deal with him, and he never did get to see Churchill.
        Joachim C. Fest wrote in ''The Face of the Third Reich'' that while in the Tower of London Hess ''suspected poison at every meal,'' hid scraps of paper all over his room and from time to time lay with his fingers in his ears, smiling and saying, ''I'm thinking.'' He also appeared to lose his memory, regaining it in 1945. Life at Spandau
        In his first years in Spandau, Hess's letters to his wife were full of optimism, as if he expected to be released soon. He was also an enthusiastic gardener at the beginning.
        But as the years wore on, he came to spend most of his days sitting on his bed in his 10- by 15-foot cell and staring off into space. He occasionally read or wrote letters to his wife, or talked with Albert Speer or Baldur von Schirach, fellow Nazis who were released in 1967 at the end of their 20-year terms. After their release, he was the sole prisoner in the building.
        Mr. Speer, in 1975, wrote sympathetically of Hess in his book ''Spandau: The Secret Diaries.'' But he accused him of faking stomach aches, cramps and loss of memory, and he charged that Hess in his ''nonmalingering moments would hoard the other prisoners' socks.''
        For years, Hess refused to receive either his wife or his son in the prison because he considered his situation degrading.
        But in 1969, after he was moved temporarily to the British military hospital for treatment of a stomach ulcer and tuberculosis, he consented to see his family for the first time in 28 years. Their visits continued in later years.  After a visit to the prison after his father's apparent suicide attempt in 1977, Wolf-Rudiger Hess told reporters that his father was ''still extremely alert mentally, and in my judgment completely unbroken spiritually.''
        Rudolf Hess is survived by his wife and his son. The Allied statement said Hess would be cremated today near his son's hometown, Munich.
      