
       Five American advertising executives were killed last weekend when their inflatable raft pitched sideways, tossing them into the fast-moving rapids of the Chilko River.
        Five American advertising executives were killed last weekend when their inflatable raft pitched sideways, tossing them into the fast-moving rapids of the Chilko River.
        Among the dead was Richard T. O'Reilly, 65 years old, president of the advertising concern that handled President Reagan's 1980 campaign, and Robert V. Goldstein, 50, who was vice president for advertising for Procter & Gamble Company.
        Sgt. Ken Williamson, a spokesman for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said the raft ''turned sideways in fast water'' Saturday, throwing 11 of the 12 people in it into the churning water about 35 miles west of Alexis Creek.
        One person clung to the raft and was rescued, while six others made it out of the river alive, the police said. Two people were hospitalized. The Others Killed
        The police identified the others killed as James Fasules, 63, of Glen Ellyn, Ill., a former senior vice president of DDB Needham Worldwide, and Stuart Sharpe, 37, and Gene Yovetich, 41, both Chicago residents and senior vice presidents of account management at DDB Needham.
        Among the survivors were Michael Miles, president and chief executive officer of Kraft Inc. in Glenview, Ill., and Al Wolfe of Lake Forest, president of the United States division of DDB Needham.
        The cause of the deaths will be determined in autopsies, the police said.
        They said 11 Americans and a Canadian guide were traveling on the raft, which was rented by Ron Thompson Guiding of Riske River. Searchers recovered three bodies soon after the midday accident and found the two others after the search resumed Sunday morning.
        Robert V. Goldstein
        Mr. Goldstein, as vice president for advertising at Procter & Gamble, was one of the most powerful figures in advertising, supervising a national advertising budget of more than $1 billion, the world's largest.
        He joined Procter & Gamble in 1961 after earning a master's degree from the University of Chicago. Mr. Goldstein, who was born in Omaha, received a bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1959.
        Past chairman of the Association of National Advertisers, Mr. Goldstein held leadership posts in many national advertising organizations, including the Advertising Council, American Advertising Federation, Advertising Educational Foundation and the International Advertising Association.
        He was active in Jewish causes in Cincinatti. He held executive posts in the Jewish Federation of Cincinatti, the Jewish Community Relations Council, the Cincinatti Associates of Hebrew Union College and Northern Hills Synagogue.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Barron Goldstein, and three sons: Larry, 26, of St. Louis; Buddy, 23, and Jeffrey, 20 years old, both of Cincinatti; a grandson, Jason Michael, 10 days old; and his parents, Arthur H. and Ruth of Omaha.
        The burial is scheduled for Thursday at 2 P.M. at Beth El Synagogue in Omaha. A memorial service is planned in Cincinatti on Aug. 13. The time and place have not been announced.
        Richard T. O'Reilly
        Mr. O'Reilly had been president since 1976 of the Richard T. O'Reilly Inc. advertising consulting firm in Greenwich, Conn., which handled the 1980 Reagan campaign, He was national director of the Media-Advertising Partnership for a Drug-Free America. The three-year campaign, which began last March, is a $500-million-a-year anti-drug effort by the advertising industry. It is the largest public service advertising effort since World War II.
        Before starting his own firm, Mr. O'Reilly was an executive at Wells, Rich, Greene; SSC&B, and N.W. Ayer Inc.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. O'Reilly lived in Greenwich. He is survived by his wife, Mary Louise; two sons, Richard T. O'Reilly Jr. of Manhattan Beach, Calif., and Brian Francis, of Stamford, Conn.; and two grandsons.
        A mass will be held later this week at St. Michael's Roman Catholic Church in Greenwich. The family will make no plans for the funeral until the autopsy is completed, a family member said.
        Correction:  August 6, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition
      