
       Msgr. Joseph J. Harnett, who directed refugee relief projects for the Catholic Relief Services for almost four decades, died Wednesday of cancer at St. Joseph's Villa, a priest's nursing home attached to the Mercy Hospital in Darby, Penn. He was 76 years old and lived in Immaculata, Pa.
        Msgr. Joseph J. Harnett, who directed refugee relief projects for the Catholic Relief Services for almost four decades, died Wednesday of cancer at St. Joseph's Villa, a priest's nursing home attached to the Mercy Hospital in Darby, Penn. He was 76 years old and lived in Immaculata, Pa.
        The monsignor's work on behalf of those made homeless by war, depression or natural disaster began in France immediately after World War II and spanned Europe, the Middle East, North Africa and Asia before ending with his retirement in 1984. At the time of his death, he was chaplain of Immaculata College.
        Father Harnett's assignment to France came four years after the founding of Catholic War Relief Services in 1943. In his 37 years in the field, the number of countries served by the relief service grew from 12 to 73.
        After completing his assignment to France, he was transferred in 1948 to Trieste, Italy, then part of the Free Territory of Trieste, where he was appointed director of the service's local relief efforts for refugees from Eastern Europe. He remained in Trieste until 1954.
        That year, which signaled the end of French power in Indochina, he was sent to Saigon, where he established the first American voluntary aid program in Vietnam. Many Honors Abroad
        Two years later he was elevated to monsignor and was named director of all the service's Far East programs, which covered 12 countries in an arc from Pakistan to South Korea. Based in Saigon, he held the postfor a decade.
        In 1966, Monsignor Harnett was assigned to Rome and given even wider responsibilities as director of all Catholic Relief Services activities in Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. He remained there for 18 years, until returning to Philadelphia and retiring in 1984.
        The governments of France, South Vietnam, the Philippines and the city of Trieste all honored Monsignor Harnett for his achievements. So did his hometown of Philadelphia, which cited him for ''his outstanding and humanitarian services'' in 1960.
        Joseph John Harnett was born Dec. 23, 1910 in Philadelphia. He graduated in 1930 with a bachelor of arts degree from St. Charles Seminary in Overbrook, a Philadelphia suburb. The same year, he went to Rome, where he studied at the Lateran Seminary before being ordained in 1935. He returned to Philadelphia and taught at St. Thomas High School in Philadelphia and at the St. Charles Seminary before embarking on his career with the Catholic Relief Services.
        Survivors include a sister, Mary Veith of Philadelphia, and four brothers: Daniel, of Malvern, Penn.; John, of Merion, Penn.; William, of Washington's Crossing, Penn., and Gerald, of Richmond,  MSGR. JOSEPH H. HARNETT DIES
      