
       William C. Doherty, a former president of the National Association of Letter Carriers and a former Ambassador to Jamaica, died of congestive heart failure Sunday at the Collingswood Nursing Center in Rockville, Md. He was 85 years old and lived in Nalcrest, Fla., a community for retired mail carriers that he founded.
        William C. Doherty, a former president of the National Association of Letter Carriers and a former Ambassador to Jamaica, died of congestive heart failure Sunday at the Collingswood Nursing Center in Rockville, Md. He was 85 years old and lived in Nalcrest, Fla., a community for retired mail carriers that he founded.
        A lobbyist and tireless advocate of higher salaries for postal employees, Mr. Doherty headed the letter carriers' union for 21 years, from 1941 to 1962.
        In that time he was also a vice president and member of the executive committee of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. He left his union jobs shortly before President Kennedy named him the first Ambassador to Jamaica.
        Mr. Doherty was born in Glendale, Ohio, on Feb. 23, 1902. He went to work as a telegraph messenger in Cincinnati when he was 14 and was promoted to telegraph operator a year later.
        In 1919, he took part in a strike called by the Commercial Telegraphers Union of America. The strike was broken when Western Union operators refused to break away from the company union.
        By falsifying his age - he was 17 at the time - Mr. Doherty enlisted in the Army. He served in Siberia with an American expeditionary force that was sent to Russia after that country's revolution had begun. ''The Army still won't tell you what we were there for,'' he said in 1958.
        After he became a sergeant, he was the chief radio operator on Corregidor in the Philippines in 1921. 'Have the Varicose Veins'
        When his Army tour was over, he passed the Civil Service examination and was hired as a substitute letter carrier in Cincinnati. He became a regular letter carrier two years later and pounded Cincinnatti streets for 18 years. ''I still have the varicose veins,'' he said in 1958.
        He was elected president of Branch 43 of the national letter carriers' union in 1928. He served as president of the Ohio Letter Carrier's Association in 1932.
        At the end of World War II, Gen. Lucius B. Clay chose him to help the free trade union movement re-establish itself in West Germany. He served as a fraternal delegate to the Trade Union Congress in Blackpool, England, and in 1949, he was one of the organizers of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions in London.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Doherty weighed as much as 301 pounds. His doctor ordered him to lose 40 pounds and get down to what Mr. Doherty called ''fighting weight.'' He did, but he did not manage to keep all of it off. 'No Banners or Placards'
        When he was pressing for a pay raise bill for postal workers in mid-1958, Mr. Doherty organized rallies on Capitol Hill. He dispatched 2,000 postal employees, who fanned out through the corridors, visiting their Representatives and Senators.
        ''They did it in a dignified way,'' he said. ''No banners or placards.'' Later he designated a day for letter carriers, on their own time, to pray that the House would pass the bill. It did, by a vote of 379 to 38.
        In August 1962, he served as President Kennedy's representative, with the rank of Special Ambassador, to the Jamaican Independence Celebration in Kingston. He retired as president of the letter carriers' union on Sept. 8 of that year, and on Oct. 24 was sworn as the first United States Ambassador to Jamaica, where he was known as ''Ambassador Bill.''
        In his spare time, Mr. Doherty collected stamps.
        He is survived by five sons, William Charles Doherty Jr., of McLean, Va., Joseph P. Doherty and Thomas A. Doherty, both of Rockville, Md., James F. Doherty, of Silver Spring, Md., and John Timothy Doherty, of Winchester, Va.; four daughters, Catherine Ellen Stewart, of McLean; Mary Seton Puglisi of Gaithersburg, Md.; Gertrude Patricia Boswell, of Silver Spring and Margaret Frances Rieger, of Rockville; 53 grandchildren, and 30 great-grandchildren.
      