
       Thomas D'Alesandro Jr., Mayor of Baltimore from 1947 to 1959 and an influence in Maryland and national Democratic politics for many years before that, died yesterday in his city's Mercy Hospital after a heart attack. He was 84 years old. The son of Italian immigrants, Mr. D'Alesandro was a lifelong resident and tireless, ribbon-cutting booster of Baltimore.
        Thomas D'Alesandro Jr., Mayor of Baltimore from 1947 to 1959 and an influence in Maryland and national Democratic politics for many years before that, died yesterday in his city's Mercy Hospital after a heart attack. He was 84 years old. The son of Italian immigrants, Mr. D'Alesandro was a lifelong resident and tireless, ribbon-cutting booster of Baltimore. He entered politics in 1927 as a member of the Maryland State Legislature and won his next 22 campaigns for the City Council, the House of Representatives and City Hall.
        He was known as ''Tommy'' to his constituents and to Presidents Roosevelt, Truman and Kennedy.
        Mr. D'Alesandro presided over a period of rebuilding of his city, opening Friendship International Airport and the 17-mile Baltimore Harbor Tunnel and starting an urban renewal project. Mayor Missed Orioles' Return
        To Baltimoreans he will always be the Mayor who brought back the major league baseball franchise they had lost 50 years earlier.
        But when the first ball was thrown out in the enlarged Memorial Stadium for the Orioles' opener in 1954, Mayor D'Alesandro had to miss the occasion. He was in the hospital for four months with exhaustion brought on by personal troubles and inquiries into municipal corruption. Several indictments resulted, none involving him.
        With the Orioles back and his public-works projects complete, voters backed him for a third four-year term in 1955. After that, a fractious party began to turn its back on him.
        In 1956, Maryland Democrats soundly defeated the party organization, and Mr. D'Alesandro was ousted as the state's Democratic National Committeeman, a post he had held for four years. Backed Newspaper Ad Tax
        In 1957, he ran for Governor in the Democratic primary but ended up winning the nomination for the Senate. In November, however, he ran behind the rest of the party ticket and lost to the Republican candidate, J. Glenn Beall.
        The following March, he lost his bid for renomination as Mayor to J. Harold Grady and returned to the insurance business after 30 years.
        One of the more controversial episodes in City Hall was his support of a tax on newspaper advertising, apparently the first such levy in the country. He won the fight for the tax in 1957, but the outcry that followed brought its demise only months later.
        He overcame his phobia of air travel to accompany President Truman on an inaugural flight into Baltimore's new airport in 1950. He tried out the harbor's new radar-control system in 1949 using the ship-to-shore equipment of his own 46-foot cruiser in rain and fog. He snipped the ribbon for a new heliport in 1958, helped establish the Maryland Port Authority in 1956 and saw the opening of the harbor tunnel in 1957.
        Baltimore's current Mayor, Clarence Burns, recalled yesterday that under Mr. D'Alesandro the city built 87 new schools, providing new facilities for black students who had been relegated to inferior segregated buildings.
        Thomas D'Alesandro Jr. was born in Baltimore's Little Italy and never left the neighborhood. Asked why he remained in the community of modest row houses, he replied: ''I'm a Paisano. These are my people and this is where I belong.''
        He left school at the age of 13 to help support his family and attended Calvert Business College in Baltimore.
        His son, Thomas D'Alesandro 3d, served as City Council President and Mayor of Baltimore from 1967 to 1971, and his daughter, Nancy Pelosi, recently won a special election in San Francisco to fill a vacancy in the House.
        Mr. D'Alesandro is survived by his wife, Anunciata; four other sons, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Nicholas J., Hector and Joseph; 16 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      