
       John Warriner, a retired teacher and author of a widely used series of English textbooks, died of cancer July 29 at his home in St. Croix, the Virgin Islands. He was 80 years old and also lived in Amagansett, L.I.
        John Warriner, a retired teacher and author of a widely used series of English textbooks, died of cancer July 29 at his home in St. Croix, the Virgin Islands. He was 80 years old and also lived in Amagansett, L.I.
        Mr. Warriner was the author of ''Warriner's English Grammar and Composition'' series, textbooks for grades 6 through 12 that were published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich beginning in 1946.
        Paul McCluskey, a vice president of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, described the grammar and composition books yesterday as ''one of the best selling series in textbook publishing history.'' He estimated that 30 million copies had been sold. The most recent edition came out Monday.
        Mr. Warriner also wrote teachers' manuals, test booklets and workbooks and assembled an anthology of short stories. Theory About a Textbook
        Mr. Warriner - originally from Michigan, where his parents were educators - received his bachelor's degree in English at the University of Michigan and his master's at Harvard University.
        He taught at the New Jersey Teachers College in Montclair in the early 1930's, then became an English teacher at Garden City High School in Garden City, L.I. He retired from teaching in 1962.
        It was during World War II that a publisher's representative approached Mr. Warriner about revising a textbook that had been in use since 1898. Mr. Warriner instead offered his ideas for a new book. But when the publisher's timetable seemed indefinite, he took his ideas to Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.
        The result was ''Warriner's Handbook of English,'' intended for grades 9 and 10. Books for the other grades followed.
        ''I had a theory about what a textbook should be,'' Mr. Warriner recalled years later, ''and we incorporated it into this book. The theory I've always gone on is that the teacher does the teaching. I mean by that the textbook is merely a record of what the teacher teaches; and the idea that a textbook can be lively and exciting and illustrated and full of pictures and sort of like a bulletin board - that's not what I want in my classes.''
        After leaving teaching Mr. Warriner continued to prepare new editions of his textbooks every few years.
        His wife died in 1977. He is survived by two daughters, Alison Warriner of Oakland, Calif., and Jean McLemore of Portland, Ore., and three grandchildren.
      