
       Hans V. Tofte, an intelligence agent for the Allies who had a variety of assignments behind enemy lines in World War II, died of heart failure Monday in Gilbertsville, N.Y. He was 76 years old and had lived in Gilbertsville in recent years.
        Hans V. Tofte, an intelligence agent for the Allies who had a variety of assignments behind enemy lines in World War II, died of heart failure Monday in Gilbertsville, N.Y. He was 76 years old and had lived in Gilbertsville in recent years.
        Mr. Tofte was dismissed from the Central Intelligence Agency in a 1966 dispute over classified documents found in his Washington home.
        He was born in Copenhagen and escaped from Nazi-occupied Denmark in 1941. After making his way through Germany, France, Spain and Portugal, he joined a secret British-Danish organization and began his intelligence career in the anti-Nazi underground.
        He was flown to Australia and then to Singapore, and took part in guerrilla training and counterespionage behind the Japanese lines in Burma. In 1942, he ran a supply line into China. Ran Secret Supply Line
        In 1943, he transferred to American service. After joining the newly organized Office of Strategic Services, a predecessor of the C.I.A., Mr. Tofte worked behind enemy lines in Italy.
        On assignment in Yugoslavia, Mr. Tofte ran a secret supply line across the Adriatic Sea to partisan Yugoslav forces under Marshal Tito. He also presided over the evacuation of 600 wounded underground freedom fighters.
        When the war ended, he became a troubleshooter for Gen. Walter Bedell Smith, who was the Director of Central Intelligence.
        During the Korean War, he worked on guerrilla activities and was credited by Gen. Matthew B. Ridgeway with ''the collection of vital intelligence on Korea, based on his specialized knowledge of unconventional warfare.'' Later he served on numerous missions to Latin America. Man Saw Classified Documents
        The events that led to his dismissal from the C.I.A. began in 1966 when an apartment in the basement of his Washington home went on the market.
        At the time, the C.I.A. said, a real-estate agency arranged for another C.I.A. employee to see the apartment. While there, the man saw some classified documents, apparently in violation of agency rules. The would-be tenant later returned with another C.I.A. employee to retrieve the materials.
        Mr. Tofte was not at home at the time. He said he would have let the men in to get the documents. But he contended they entered his household under false pretenses and violated his constitutional rights. He also said it was ''customary for executives and senior personnel in key positions,'' to take papers home to work on them.
        He is survived by a son, Finn, and a grandson, Carl Christian, both of Copenhagen.
      