
       Ira C. Eaker, a retired Air Force general who commanded United States air forces in Europe in World War II and helped establish the Air Force as a separate military service, died Thursday at the Malcolm Grow Medical Center at Andrews Air Force Base in Camp Springs, Md.
        Ira C. Eaker, a retired Air Force general who commanded United States air forces in Europe in World War II and helped establish the Air Force as a separate military service, died Thursday at the Malcolm Grow Medical Center at Andrews Air Force Base in Camp Springs, Md.
        General Eaker was 91 years old and lived in Washington. The cause of his death was not announced pending an autopsy that was described as routine, but a spokesman at the medical center said yesterday that General Eaker had been ill for some time with a heart ailment.
        General Eaker retired from the Air Force as a lieutenant general in 1947, and until the late-1970's was a business executive and syndicated newspaper columnist. In 1985, President Reagan, with the approval of Congress, bestowed on him the fourth star of a full general in recognition of his services to the nation.
        ''Few men can equal General Eaker's great stature as an air pioneer - we owe him our gratitude for his contributions to the Air Force and the nation,'' the Air Force Chief of Staff, Gen. Larry Welch, said in a statement at the Pentagon yesterday. An Aviation Pioneer
        The son of a Texas tenant farmer, General Eaker earned his wings in 1918 and became one of the nation's aviation pioneers, setting a world record in 1929 by staying aloft for nearly a week by refueling in the air. Later he made the first ''blind'' transcontinental flight entirely with instruments.
        With Generals William (Billy) Mitchell, James H. Doolittle, H. H. (Hap) Arnold and other major aviation figures between the two world wars, General Eaker was a leader of the fight to establish air power as a key element in the nation's strategic arsenal.
        But it was as a commander of air forces in the European Theater in World War II that General Eaker made his name. He commanded the famed 8th Air Force in Britain in 1942 and 1943, and then commanded allied air forces in the Mediterranean in 1944 and 1945. In the final months of the war, he was named deputy commander of the Army Air Force and chief of the air staff in Washington.
        In his Flying Fortress, the Yankee Doodle, General Eaker, a husky, square-jawed cigar-smoking pilot with a Texas drawl, flew many missions over Europe and into Germany, and personally led the first American B-17 bomber strike against German occupation forces in France, the bombing of Rouen on Aug. 17, 1942. Proponent of Precision Bombing
        In June 1944, after being transferred to the Mediterranean, he flew the first bombing raid from Italy into Germany, landing in the Soviet Union after striking factory and oil installations and other military targets.
        General Eaker was a key proponent of the precision daylight bombing that attacked much of Germany's industrial war production. Fearing heavy losses, Allied leaders were skeptical of the tactic. General Eaker took his case directly to Prime Minister Winston Churchill and obtained permission to hit key targets by day.
        At the Casablanca conference of allied leaders in early 1943, daylight precision bombing became a basic element of Allied strategy, and much of the credit was given to General Eaker.
        General Eaker, in his service in Britain, also developed the plan by which enemy targets were bombed virtually around the clock, with American B-17's striking by day and the Royal Air Force bombers attacking by night.
        Ira Clarence Eaker was born at Field Creek, Tex., on April 3, 1896. He graduated from the Southeastern Normal School in Durant, Okla., and entered the Army in 1917. Though an enlisted man, he was soon admitted to an officers training program and by year's end had been commissioned a second lieutanant of infantry.
        He did not leave the United States during World War I, but was transferred to what was then the nation's air force, the Aviation Section of the Army's Signal Corps, and, after training at Austin and at Kelly Field in Texas, received his pilot's wings in October, 1918. Established Endurance Record
        In 1926, Captain Eaker was second-in-command of a 22,000-mile Pan American goodwill tour by Army planes that circled Central and South America. Three years later, he piloted the Army's ''Question Mark,'' establishing a world endurance record by remaining aloft more than 150 hours in a series of pioneering airborne refueling operations.
        A year later, he made the first transcontinental flight using the same refueling technique and several years afterward crossed the continent in an all-instrument flight on which he did not look out of the cockpit. Amid these and other exploits, he received a series of promotions and was named a two-star General just as World War II began.
        Though he retired on June 15, 1947, a month before the Air Force officially became a separate branch of the military services, General Eaker helped plan that change and was credited by service colleagues with being instrumental in achieving it.
        General Eaker received the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross and other United States military honors, including a special Gold Medal from Congress in 1979, and was decorated by Britain, France, the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Italy, Poland, Brazil, Chile and Peru.
        After his retirement, General Eaker was an officer of the Hughes Tool Company and the Hughes Aircraft Company until 1957. He then was a vice president of the Douglas Aircraft Company for many years.
        For 18 years in the 1960's and 70's, General Eaker wrote a column on military affairs that was syndicated to 180 newspapers.
        With General Arnold, General Eaker was the co-author of three books, ''The Flying Game,'' which was published in 1936, ''Winged Warfare,'' in 1937, and ''Army Fever,'' in 1942. A book about General Eaker, ''Air Force Spoken Here: General Ira Eaker and the Command of the Air,'' by James Parton, appeared earlier this year.
        General Eaker is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Huff Apperson. A funeral is scheduled for next Tuesday at Fort Myer, Va. Burial with full military honors will be in Arlington National Cemetery.
        Correction:  August 12, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
      