
       Leon H. Keyserling, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Harry S. Truman and a longtime proponent of full employment, died Sunday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Washington.
        Leon H. Keyserling, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Harry S. Truman and a longtime proponent of full employment, died Sunday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Keyserling, who was instrumental in the drafting of major New Deal legislation and the establishment of the Council of Economic Advisers, advocated the use of Government measures to maintain full employment when the private economy faltered.
        He was born in Charleston, S.C., and after graduating from Columbia University in 1928 and the Harvard Law School in 1931, he taught briefly at Columbia. Then he moved to Washington, where he became a legislative assistant to Senator Robert F. Wagner of New York. Helped Draft Key Laws
        It was the era of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal, and as an aide of Senator Wagner, a Democrat, Mr. Keyserling helped draft such measures as the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933, the Social Security Act of 1935 and the National Labor Relations Act, also known as the Wagner Act.
        In the later years of the Roosevelt Administration, Mr. Keyserling supervised the construction of several million units of Government-financed housing and helped write legislation that led to the creation of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
        At the end of World War II, as the nation struggled to change from a wartime to a peacetime economy, Mr. Keyserling wrote an essay on postwar employment that later became the basis for the Employment Act of 1946. That act set out the idea that American economic policy was to be directed toward full employment.
        It also mandated the establishment of the Council of Economic Advisers -an idea that Mr. Keyserling had also recommended. A Force for Liberalism
        As one of the three original members of the council, which outlines broad economic goals to the President, Mr. Keyserling became its chairman in 1949 and remained until the end of the Truman Adminstration.
        In that position, he was a force for liberalism against those in the Truman Adminstration who were trying to push Mr. Truman into a more conservative stance.
        Clark Clifford, White House counsel to Mr. Truman and Secretary of Defense in the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson, said Mr. Keyserling aligned with a group of liberals who would meet quietly every week to determine how to keep Mr. Truman on a liberal course.
        ''There was a bitter struggle between those in the Truman Administration who felt that the liberal policies of President Roosevelt should be continued and those who wanted Truman to become more conservative,'' Mr. Clifford said. ''Mr. Keyserling was part of a small group that constantly worked to keep Mr. Truman on the liberal side.'' Friend of Organized Labor
        After leaving Government service in 1953, Mr. Keyserling worked as a private consultant and lawyer and founded the Conference on Economic Progress, a nonprofit organization dedicated to public-interest projects.
        A lifelong friend of organized labor, he testified for unions in various hearings, particularly on wage contracts. He wrote a torrent of books and pamphlets that specified what Government and the private economy should do to stimulate the creation of jobs and lower the unemployment rate.
        During this period Mr. Keyserling's legal clients included nearly all the public employee unions in New York City, as well as the governments of France, India and Israel.
        A rotund man with an undaunted conviction of the correctness of his views, Mr. Keyserling was one of the economists who helped draft the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978, yet another attempt to push the Government to achieve full employment. But with rising concern over the inflation caused by the economic stimulus needed to create full employment, this measure has been largely ignored.
        Mr. Keyserlng is survived by his wife, Mary, an economist who headed the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor in the Johnson Administration, and a brother, Herbert, of Beaufort. S.C.
      