
       Morton N. Weiss, a retired president of the National Security Traders Association who was long considered a leading spokesman for the over-the-counter securities market, died of pancreatic cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67 years old.
        Morton N. Weiss, a retired president of the National Security Traders Association who was long considered a leading spokesman for the over-the-counter securities market, died of pancreatic cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67 years old.
        In 1973, Mr. Weiss was elected the first full-time president of the association, which represents 6,500 individuals in 33 affiliated organizations engaged in the over-the-counter industry. He retired in 1985.
        He was one of the earliest proponents of Nasdaq, the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations, an electronic stock quotation system that began in the early 1970's and is still in use.
        Mr. Weiss, whose father was a trader in over-the-counter foreign securities, was a veteran of 45 years on Wall Street, much of that time in the over-the-counter market, the market for securities not listed on any United States stock exchange. Began as a Stock Trader
        As head of the traders group he was sometimes called on to testify before Congress and Federal agencies and he traveled extensively to meet with the association's affiliates, which are scattered across the United States, Canada and Western Europe.
        Mr. Weiss was born in New York City and was graduated from the City College of New York in 1940 with a bachelor's degree in economics. He began as a stock trader with the Royal Exchange Company and later the J. Arthur Warner Company.
        He was an Army infantry officer during World War II.
        From 1954 to 1969 he was executive vice president of Singer Mackie Inc., and from 1969 to 1973 managing partner of Troster, Singer & Company, a leading concern in the over-the-counter securities market.
        He was a former president of the Security Traders Association of New York and of the National Security Traders Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Sally; two sons, Ronald and James; a daughter, Allison, all of Manhattan; a sister, Virginia Browner of Franklin Square, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      