
       Vincent Persichetti, a prolific American composer, educator, theorist, pianist and conductor, died yesterday at his home in Philadelphia, of lung cancer. He was 72 years old.
        Vincent Persichetti, a prolific American composer, educator, theorist, pianist and conductor, died yesterday at his home in Philadelphia, of lung cancer. He was 72 years old.
        During a career that spanned half a century, Mr. Persichetti wrote nine symphonies, chamber compositions for many different combinations of instruments, more than a dozen sonatas for piano and harpsichord, songs and choral works, an opera - ''The Sibyl,'' based on the fable of Chicken Little -and an enormous quantity of music for wind band.
        Mr. Persichetti's esthetic was essentially conservative, a distinctive blend of Classical, Romantic and Modernist elements, contrapuntal, rhythmically charged and expertly scored. Although the composer modestly insisted that there were only two main strains in his work - one graceful and the other gritty - his musical imagination was in fact multifaceted and highly virtuosic.
        ''Following the lineage of Mozart, Mendelssohn and Ravel, Persichetti's music suggests the innocence and childlike joy of pure musical creativity,'' Walter Simmons wrote in the New Grove Dictionary of American Music. ''Hence many works for beginners stand, with neither condescension nor apology, alongside more difficult compositions.''
        Indeed, Mr. Persichetti's works for chorus and for band - the latter an ensemble that many 20th-century composers have neglected - provided an engaging, sophisticated introduction to contemporary music for thousands of young musicians. Ran Composition Department
        Mr. Persichetti was associated with the Juilliard School for nearly 40 years. He joined the staff in 1947, and in 1963 became the chairman of the composition department, a distinguished body that included, over the years, Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter and Roger Sessions. In 1970, he was appointed chairman of Juilliard's literature and materials department. He was the author of ''William Schuman'' (1954), a monograph, with Flora R. Schreiber, and ''Twentieth-Century Harmony'' (1961).
        Vincent Persichetti was born in Philadelphia on June 6, 1915. Although his parents were not musical, they encouraged their son's talent, which was apparent from an early age. By 5, Mr. Persichetti was enrolled in the Combs Conservatory in Philadelphia, where he studied piano, organ, double bass and, under the tutelage of Russell King Miller, theory and composition. After graduation from Combs, he studied piano with Olga Samaroff and conducting with Fritz Reiner at the Curtis Institute of Music. For a time he was also head of the Combs theory and composition department.
        Although he had been composing regularly since the age of 11, he first came to public attention in the mid-1940's when the Philadelphia Orchestra, under the direction of Eugene Ormandy, began to play his music - the ''Fables'' for narrator and orchestra in 1945 and later the Symphony No. 3, written in 1943 but first performed in November 1947. Several Commissions
        Thereafter his compositions entered the repertory of several American ensembles. The Symphony No. 5 (1953) was commissioned by the Louisville Orchestra; the Symphony No. 7 (''Liturgic,'' 1958) by the St. Louis Symphony, and the final work in this genre, (''Janiculum,'' 1970) again by the Philadelphia Orchestra.
        In 1973, Mr. Persichetti was involved in a controversy that put him on the front page of newspapers throughout the country. He had been commissioned by the Presidential Inaugural Committee to write a work for performance by the Philadelphia Orchestra at Richard M. Nixon's second Inaugural Concert, on Jan. 19, 1973. Mr. Persichetti set excerpts from Abraham Lincoln's second Inaugural Address; the choice was deemed unsatisfactory by members of the committee because Lincoln's comments about the Civil War, which he described as a ''mighty scourge,'' were considered too charged for the waning days of the Vietnam War. Consequently, Mr. Persichetti's work, entitled ''A Lincoln Address,'' was deleted from the inaugural program; it was played for the first time later that month by the St. Louis Symphony under the direction of Walter Susskind.
        Several of Mr. Persichetti's compositions have been recorded, including the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth and Ninth Symphonies, seven serenades, four string quartets, and other chamber and choral pieces.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothea Flanagan Persichetti, a pianist; a daughter, Lauren; and a son, Garth. No memorial services are planned.
      