
        Iva Sergei Voidato Patcevitch, who for many years served as president and chairman of Conde Nast Publications, died yesterday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 92.
        Mr. Patcevitch, who came to the United States from Russia in 1923, initially worked for a Wall Street brokerage and was doing well there when he met Conde Nast at a Manhattan party. Mr. Nast was taken with him and in 1928, named Mr. Patcevitch as his personal assistant. Mr. Nast's last wish before dying in 1942 was that Mr. Patcevitch be named his successor as president. He became chairman of the executive committee in 1942 and retired in 1971.
        Lean, cultured, and fashionable, Mr. Patcevitch was a troubleshooter at various Conde Nast publications in the 1930's, including Paris Vogue.
        He was named managing director of Les Editions Conde Nast in Paris. In the late 1930's he worked in Manhattan as executive assistant to the president of the company and was named to the Board of Directors and the company's Executive Committee.
        Mr. Patcevitch was born in Tbilisi, Georgia. His father, Sergei, was an anti-Bolshevik civil governor in Byelorussia. The younger Patcevitch graduated from the Imperial Naval Academy in 1918 and during the final months of World War I, served as a liaison officer between the Russians and the British on the Eastern front. During employment in Turkey and Persia, he met Americans who gave him letters of introduction to well-connected people in Manhattan.
        His marriage to Nadeja Gellibrand Patcevitch ended in divorce in 1942. He is survived by his wife, the former Chesbrough Lewis, whom he married in 1963, and two stepchildren, Chessie Raynor and Minot Amory.
        A funeral service will be held Friday at 4 P.M. at St. John's Episcopal Church in Southampton.
        Correction:  September 16, 1993, Thursday
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of Iva Sergei Voidato Patcevitch, a retired chairman of Conde Nast Publications, was published in error. It showed Marcel A. Palmaro, who died in 1969. Mr. Patcevitch is shown above. (Jean Raeburn, 1959)
      