
        Dennis J. Clark, who championed the underclass as a government worker, teacher, author, historian and foundation executive, died at his home in Philadelphia on Friday. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        From 1971 until his retirement in 1988, Dr. Clark was executive director of the Samuel S. Fels Fund in Philadelphia, a foundation supporting science, education, the arts and community services.
        An expert on Irish-Americans, he once said that their culture was so diverse that "almost anything you say about them is both true and false." His pointed anecdotes included the story of a Roman Catholic church in Philadelphia built without windows on the ground floor because of frequent anti-Irish riots.
        Author of 11 Books
        Among his 11 books and hundreds of articles were "The Irish in Philadelphia: 10 Generations of Urban Experience" (Temple, 1973) and "Hibernia America" (1986).
        Dr. Clark's involvement in social causes started in the 1940's, when he organized migrant workers in the West, then returned to Philadelphia to help the housing authority desegregate its projects.
        He later joined the Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations and dealt with racial and ethnic tensions, which led to his first book, "Cities in Crisis: The Christian Response" (Sheed Ward, 1960).
        In the 1960's he was active nationally in progressive Catholic affairs as director of the Catholic Interracial Council in New York and editor of the Interracial Review.
        In an untraditional tour of Philadelphia last year, Dr. Clark ignored the well-known history of staid Quakers and wealthy Main Liners to visit sites of labor riots and ethnic combat.
        He described his itinerary as the "gangster hangouts, the haunts of the dockwallopers, mill dollies, street singers, bootleggers and weekend chippies who made the nation's most historic city a theater of democratic thriving and underclass aspirations and foibles."
        Dr. Clark earned a bachelor's degree at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia and his doctorate in history at Temple University. He taught at Temple, Villanova and other institutions.
        He is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Josepha O'Callaghan; a daughter, Conna Aguilar of Philadelphia; four sons, Brendan, Patrick and Ciaran of Philadelphia and Brian of Boston, and eight grandchildren.
      