
        Seymour J. Wenner, an expert in Federal administrative law and a former administrative judge for the Federal Power Commission and the Postal Rate Commission, died on Monday at the Manor Care Nursing Center in Silver Spring, Md. He was 80 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was complications of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Wenner, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn at the age of 15. He then earned a degree at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland and graduated magna cum laude in government from Harvard College. He earned his law degree from Harvard in 1937.
        After working for the Justice Department and the Office of Price Administration, he was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Army in 1942. Assigned to the Signal Corps, he joined the team of cryptoanalysts working to crack enemy codes.
        After the war, he became a lawyer for the Civil Aeronautics Board and a hearing examiner for the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Kennedy Administration recruited him for the Federal Power Commission as an administrative law judge in a crucial case on natural gas rates.
        The proceedings involved 6,000 parties and two years of hearings. Judge Wenner's 150-page decision recommended a revolutionary two-pronged producer-price system for determining gas rates, distinguishing between "existing" and "new" supplies, or the newly discovered. It was upheld by the United States Supreme Court.
        After 10 years with the power commission, he joined the Postal Rate Commission, first as a hearing examiner and later as chief administrative judge. His tenure there proved frustrating. In 1972 the commission rejected his recommendation to increase airmail rates, and three years later he was an important figure in the agency's first big dispute.
        The Postal Service wanted to increase first-class rates, but Judge Wenner held that users of that service had been burdened disproportionately and decided to recommend a cut in rates instead. The Postal Service took strong issue, the commission overruled him and in July 1975 Judge Wenner resigned. A Federal appeals court later sided with Judge Wenner, but the rates went up anyway.
        After that, Mr. Wenner was a consultant to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and, until his retirement 10 years ago, the trial judge at the Bonneville Power Authority's periodic rate hearings in Portland, Ore.
        Mr. Wenner is survived by his wife of 49 years, Dr. Naomi K. Wenner; two sons, Mark, of Arlington, Va., and Adam, of Chevy Chase; a sister, Doris Kelnor of Montreal, and three grandchildren.
      