
        Robert E. Healy, a former chief executive of the Interpublic Group of Companies, an advertising holding company, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 89.
        He had been in failing health for some months, said his son Edward W.
        Mr. Healy, who sold Hoover vacuum cleaners door to door as a teen-ager, served from 1967 to 1971 as president and chief executive of Interpublic, which owned various advertising agencies and marketing companies. It has been publicly held since 1971, when it was the world's largest agency company.
        Interpublic now comprises three systems of advertising agencies: McCann- Erickson Worldwide, Lintas Worldwide and the Lowe Group.  Turned Company Around
        Interpublic was a sinking empire, operating in the red and burdened with debt from acquisitions, when Mr. Healy took its helm in 1967. Philip H. Geier Jr., Interpublic's current chairman and chief executive officer, said yesterday, "He was instrumental in pulling the company back from a financial precipice, and set Interpublic firmly on the path toward professional and financial growth."
        In aiding the company, Mr. Healy obtained $10.2 million in revolving credit from Chase Manhattan and carried out strict cost-cutting and other management moves. Interpublic had a net income in 1968 of $3.64 million after having a loss of $3.89 million in 1967.
        Specific steps that Mr. Healy took included, by late 1969, shearing off more than a dozen companies whose functions were not advertising, cutting 700 jobs from a payroll of 8,000, and merging four advertising agencies that Interpublic owned.
        "The problem was financial, not professional," Mr. Healy, a craggy-faced man with a habit of shaking the change in his trousers pockets, said in an interview in 1969. "So I called in our key people and told them to take care of their key people and make sure that client service was at the highest and that I would take care of the financial problems."
        He was also chairman of Interpublic, from 1968 to 1973, and honorary chairman from 1973 to 1983. Earlier, he had headed an Interpublic company based in Geneva from 1962 to 1965. He had gone into partial retirement when, in July 1967, he was asked to work full time for the Interpublic Group. He became president and chief executive four months later.
        Mr. Healy was born in Brooklyn, grew up in the Jamaica section of Queens and studied accounting and business law at what is now Pace University.
        After going into sales promotion and then advertising, he joined McCann- Erickson in 1952 and had a variety of executive assignments there before taking the Interpublic post in Geneva.
        Mr. Healy's first marriage, to Lile Rose in 1927, ended in divorce in 1957.
        He is survived by his wife, Wayne Clark-Healy; two daughters from his first marriage, Lile H. Shelton, of Atlanta, and Patricia H. Bernardi, of Palm Beach Gardens; two sons, both from his second marriage, Edward W. of Tarrytown, N.Y., and James D. of Miami; a sister, Dolly Watts, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      