
        Richard Jordan, an award-winning actor who appeared in more than 100 plays on and Off Broadway and in a score of Hollywood films, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his daughter, Nina.
        Mr. Jordan, a native New Yorker, spent eight seasons with the New York Shakespeare Festival, appearing not only in plays by Shakespeare but in works by Ibsen, Pirandello, Chekhov and Shaw as well.
        He turned to directing in 1990 with a much-admired version of "Macbeth" for the Shakespeare Festival. Starring Raul Julia, the production was a blend of modern-day totalitarian terror and gray, feudal atmosphere. Won a Golden Globe
        Nationally, Mr. Jordan was perhaps best known for his work in NBC's 10-hour 1976 television series "Captains and the Kings." He received a Golden Globe Award for his portrayal of Joseph Armagh, an Irish immigrant who evolved into a ruthless tycoon and founded an American dynasty.
        "Gettysburg," a film in which he stars, is due to be released next month; his most recent film role was as the evil sheriff Bates in "Posse," a Western released this year.
        Mr. Jordan was a multifaceted theater professional who acted, directed, produced and wrote during his 35-year career. In his avocation as master carpenter, he assembled the sets for several productions.
        He won an Obie Award for his acting in the 1983 Off Broadway production of the Vaclav Havel play "Protest," and in 1987 won a Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle Award for his direction of another Havel play, "Largo Desolato." Film Debut in 1970
        Mr. Jordan made his film debut in "Lawman" in 1970, going on to roles in Woody Allen's "Interiors" (1978), "Raise the Titanic!" (1980), "A Flash of Green" (1984, produced by Mr. Jordan), "Dune" (1984) and "The Hunt for Red October" (1990), among others. He first won critical praise with his portrayal of a cynical Federal agent in "The Friends of Eddie Coyle" (1973), with Robert Mitchum.
        Among his television credits were: "Killer Angels," "The Equalizer," "Breakdown," "The Murder of Mary Phagan," "Les Miserables," "The Defection of Simas Kudirka," "The French Atlantic Affair" and "The Bunker."
        Robert Anson Jordan was born in Manhattan on July 19, 1937, into what he was to describe as a family of lawyers. He told friends that he took the stage name Richard because he wanted to avoid being confused with another actor of that name. He was known as Bob to those friends whom he had made early in his career.
        Mr. Jordan graduated from Harvard University in the class of 1958 and also was a post-graduate student at the Universite du Theatre des Nations in Paris.
        He started his acting career at the age of 16 during his student days at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., when he played the lead role in "Mister Roberts." In the 1970's as a member of the Los Angeles Actor's Theater, he produced, directed and wrote plays, even providing some financial support of his own.
        Mr. Jordan's marriage to the actress Kathleen Widdoes ended in divorce.
        In addition to his daughter Nina, of Manhattan, he is survived by a son, Robert Jordan of Manhattan, whose mother is the actress Blair Brown; his mother, Constance Hand Morris of Manhattan and Sharon, Conn.; a brother, Eben, of Bedford, N.Y.; and three sisters, Constance Jordan of Solana Beach, Calif., Frances Morris of Belmont, Mass., and Martha States of Bedford, N.Y.
      