
        Meade H. Esposito, the Democratic leader who reigned over Brooklyn politics for a quarter century and whose power influenced New York State politics and extended onto the national scene, died last night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 86.
        Mr. Esposito, who lived in Manhasset since his conviction in a 1988 influence-peddling scandal, entered the hospital last Sunday.
        Joe Monticello, his business partner, said Mr. Esposito died of renal failure that had been caused by a recent heart attack. Mr. Esposito, who underwent surgery for cancer of the bladder six years ago and was still being treated for the condition, also had lung cancer, friends said. Power Behind the Scenes
        Mr. Esposito retired as Brooklyn Democratic leader in late 1983, but remained one of the state's most powerful behind-the-scenes politicians until his indictment and conviction in 1987 for having given an illegal gratuity to another one-time power broker, former Representative Mario Biaggi of the Bronx. He was given a suspended two-year prison term and fined $500,000.
        A second indictment one year later on bribery and tax-fraud charges was dismissed in 1989 because of his age and ill health.
        Mr. Esposito was the Democratic leader in Brooklyn for 14 years and used the post to influence the political affairs of City Hall and Albany. His ever-present cigar and brusque manner were hallmarks of a fading era when clubhouse politicians dominated party affairs. But his willingness to use his power often made Mr. Esposito and his allies vulnerable to investigations.
        He played a major role in Edward I. Koch's successful bid for mayor in 1977, helping to rally the support of party leaders behind the campaign. That support came back to haunt Mr. Koch in later years as mayoral appointees who had received their jobs with the help of Mr. Esposito's backing became enmeshed in municipal corruption scandals. . Began as a Bail Bondsman
        Amadeo Henry Esposito was born in Brooklyn and educated in city public schools. He was working a bail bondsman when he began his rise to politics in 1960 by defeating a Canarsie Democratic leader, Harry Mohr.
        In 1969, Mr. Esposito was elected Brooklyn Democratic chairman and his lunches, in which he was usually seated in a front window seat at Foffe's restaurant in downtown Brooklyn, became the fodder for political legend as he acted as host to politicians and judges. He was once taped as having boasted that he had "made" 42 judges.
        He had reason to let himself be seen, since he was the leader of the largest Democratic county machine in the country. He gave advice to national figures like Robert F. Kennedy and delivered votes to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and often walked away from such encounters with the beneficiaries deeply indebted to him.
        Having done a favor for Mr. Rockefeller one time, the Governor reciprocated by sending Mr. Esposito a Picasso print of an owl accompanied with a note that described him as a "wise old owl."
        Why was he delivering votes to a Republican Governor? he was asked.
        "It was fun," he replied.
        Ever one to play the avuncular old timer when young politicians came to Brooklyn looking for votes, Mr. Esposito would take those he liked under his wing and show them the ropes.
        Robert F. Kennedy, for example, after visiting a political meeting in Brooklyn and leaving after a few minutes, asked Mr. Esposito, "How'd I do?"
        Replied Mr. Esposito: "Who are you? You stop in for five minutes! In this business, there are certain things you have to do."
        Gruff, outspoken and with a ready turn of phrase for an appreciative ear, Mr. Esposito once said of his years of nominating judges, delivering votes and fighting off investigators:
        "Hey, I've been dancing on a charlotte russe for 16 years and I never dented the cherry." The reference was to his years of service as Brooklyn Demcratic leader, and to gild the charlotte russe he gave himself two years to grow on, apparently including in his years of service tiny parts of 1969 and 1984 wen he was actually out of power. No Fun Left
        Yet his hold on the reins of power in the borough, and indeed in state politics, consumed him, although he acknowledged that times were changing.
        "There's no more fun in politics," he was to say a decade ago. "It used to be a handshake, even a look in the eye was it." But he rejected any notion that countywide political organizations were outdated, saying, "There's not a Republican official left in Brooklyn. Now who do you think did that?"
        He looked the politician, more often than not appearing in public with a big cigar in his mouth. He also was a heavy cigarette smoker, and told friends recently that even though he was suffering from lung cancer, it hadn't stopped his habit.
        He showed the same devotion to politics.
        "I'm never going to quit," he said in 1983 as the investigations into his activities mounted. "I'll be here until I stop breathing."
        But in the end Mr. Esposito did leave, but only after he was convicted in Federal District Court in Brooklyn of having given a Florida spa vacation to Mr. Biaggi, who said he had accepted the trip as a friend of Mr. Esposito.
        The second major case against him, in which charges were eventually dismissed, involved his only child, Phyllis Zito.
        Mrs. Zito eventually pleaded guilty in 1989 to a Federal indictment that had alleged that she, her father, and a business partner, Harry Dickran, paid more than $200,000 in bribes and kickbacks to obtain contracts for their printing company, Beaumont Offset Corporation of Farmingdale, L.I.
        Mrs. Zito, who was the company's secretary-treasurer, was given a three-year suspended sentence, including one year of house arrest, upon her conviction, which technically was for tax fraud.
        Mr. Esposito's wife, Anne, died two years ago. He is survived by Mrs. Zito of Manhasset, his only child; two grandsons, a granddaughter, and five great-grandchildren.
      