
        Claude Renoir, a movie cameraman and director of photography who was a grandson of the Impressionist painter Pierre Auguste Renoir, died on Sept. 5 in Troyes, France, 55 miles east of Paris. He was 79 years old and had a home in the village of Essoyes, not far from Troyes.
        Critics praised Mr. Renoir's skill in using color and in depicting countrysides. He was a nephew of the film director Jean Renoir and of another Claude Renoir, who produced some of Jean Renoir's movies and died in 1969.
        The movies that the cameraman Claude Renoir filmed include "The River" (1951), by Jean Renoir, which was set in India and won critical praise in the United States as one of the great color movies of all time and a triumph for both Claude and Jean Renoir.
        In appraising Mr. Renoir's career, The Times of London wrote: " 'The River,' with its exquisite evocation of the Indian scene, helped to inaugurate a new era in the cinema, one in which color was finally accepted as a medium fit for great film makers to work in." An Impressionist of Film
        Mr. Renoir was also highly regarded for his work in the 1956 documentary film "The Picasso Mystery," in which the camera responded sensitively as Picasso executed paintings with lightning speed.
        In Britain, The Guardian said last week that the French film "End of Desire" (1958) "was made exceptional by Claude's richly textured, almost Impressionistic vision of the 19th-century country milieu."
        His other films included "Barbarella" (1968), "The Horsemen" (1971), which was filmed in Afghanistan and Spain, "The French Connection II" (1975) and "The Spy Who Loved Me" (1977).
        Among the directors with whom he worked were Rene Clement, Lewis Gilbert and Roger Vadim.
        Mr. Renoir was born in Paris, the son of Pierre Renoir, an actor, and his wife, Marie, who acted under the name Vera Sergine.
        He married twice and had a son and a daughter. In his final years he was largely blind.
      