
        Robert Zeppa, a surgeon who developed a life-saving operation for cirrhosis patients, died on Thursday at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 68 and lived in Miami.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, his family said.
        Dr. Zeppa was the president of the American Surgical Association in 1990-91, chairman of the American Board of Surgeons in 1982-84 and the recipient of a distinguished service award from the American College of Surgeons in 1990.
        In the late 1960's, he and Dr. Dean Warren developed the distal splenorenal shunt as a treatment for cirrhosis. The operation diverted blood from a damaged liver to avoid potentially deadly bleeding from that organ. Surgeons from around the world came to learn the procedure as it became a standard treatment.
        Dr. Zeppa spent most of his career in Miami. In 1965 he joined the University of Miami's School of Medicine and its affiliated Jackson Memorial Hospital.
        The next year he was promoted to co-chairman of the medical school's surgery department. In 1971 he became the chairman and was also named chief surgeon at Jackson Memorial, and in 1986 he took on the added duties of chief of its trauma service. He held all three posts at his death.
        Dr. Zeppa was instrumental in forming the Dade County Trauma Network and in opening Jackson Memorial's new trauma center last year. He was also the chief of surgery at the Miami Veterans Administration Medical Center.
        He often worked around the clock and was known for his advocacy of medical care for indigent patients. Jackson Memorial is the major public hospital for the Miami area.
        Dr. Zeppa was born in Manhattan. During World War II he served as a bombardier in the Army Air Corps in Europe, with the rank of second lieutenant.
        After the war, he graduated from Columbia University and earned his medical degree at Yale University. Before moving to Miami, he worked at the medical center of the University of Pittsburgh and the surgery department at the University of North Carolina.
        Survivors include his wife of 41 years, the former Cicely Lawrence; a daughter, Melissa Zeppa of Kent, Conn., and a son, Scott of Berkeley, Calif.
      