
        Willie Mosconi, acknowledged as one of the greatest pocket billiards players in the history of the sport, died on Thursday afternoon at his home in Haddon Heights, N.J. He was 80.
        Mr. Mosconi died of a heart attack, said members of his immediate family.
        "For hustlers like Minnesota Fats, billiards was just for fun," said Stanley Cohen, who, with Mr. Mosconi, wrote "Willie's Game" (McMillan), an autobiography published last March. "But for Willie Mosconi, billiards was strictly a business."
        Mr. Mosconi, whose name is synonymous with billiards in the way that Babe Ruth's is synonymous with baseball, won the world pocket billiards championship 13 times in 15 years from 1941 through 1956, the year he retired from the professional circuit.
        "There will never be another one like him," said his wife, Flora. "He reminded me of a ballet dancer going around the table. He was so quick, so smooth. He did everything so effortlessly. No one was more graceful or had more finesse." Made 526 Balls in a Row
        His most heralded records include a high run of 526 straight balls in exhibition play, set in Springfield, Ill., in 1954; a high grand average of 18.34 in a world tournament in Chicago in 1950, and a best game in which he sank 150 balls in a row in one inning (a perfect game) against a disbelieving Jimmy Moore in Kinston, N.C., in 1956.
        Born on June 27, 1913, in Philadelphia, Mr. Mosconi learned the game in his father's Philadelphia pool hall. Although his father locked up the cues, Willie, at the age of 6, would assemble potatoes on pool tables and shoot them with broomsticks into the pockets.
        As he grew older and honed his skills, Mr. Mosconi was able to combine his great talents with movie-star good looks and tasteful attire. He was able to almost single-handedly establish billiards as a reputable pastime in the minds of the general public.
        His efforts to disassociate billiards from the images of smoky basements, bars and parlors crawling with drunks and hustlers was the reason for his feuds over the years with his chief nemesis, Minnesota Fats, a quick-witted, flashy hustler whose real name is Rudolf Wanderone and who always taunted Mr. Mosconi but continually denied invitations to compete against him.
        "My husband hated Minnesota Fats because he felt that he was always hurting the image of the game instead of helping it," said Flora Mosconi. "Willie thought so highly of the game that he never referred to it as 'pool.' He insisted on calling it billiards." A Role in 'The Hustler'
        During the filming of "The Hustler" in 1961, which starred Jackie Gleason and Paul Newman as pool players who seek matches for money, Mr. Mosconi served as technical director and made several cameo appearances.
        Over the years, Minnesota Fats bragged that the movie and the book "The Hustler," written by Walter Tevis, were based on his life.
        "At that time, Minnesota Fats, who grew up in New York, was actually called Broadway Fats," said Mr. Cohen. "But after the movie, Broadway Fats changed his name to Minnesota Fats, the character played by Jackie Gleason. This really got Willie upset. He would ask Minnesota Fats if he had ever been to Minnesota."
        After years of feuding, Minnesota Fats accepted an invitation to play Mr. Mosconi. The match received considerable attention, and was broadcast live on ABC's "Wide World of Sports" in 1978, with Howard Cosell serving as emcee. Both Mosconi and Minnesota Fats were 65 years old, but still in command of skills. An Easy Victory
        Mosconi, dressed in his trademark sports jacket and slacks, his black shoes shining as always, easily defeated the talkative, disheveled Minnesota Fats. Mosconi's rapid-fire, extremely accurate shooting captured the imagination of those who were watching. For Mosconi, it was more than Willie defeats Minnesota. It was billiards defeats pool.
        Along with his work on "The Hustler," Mr. Mosconi was featured in a 1948 documentary called "The Willie Mosconi Story." He later wrote "Willie Mosconi on Pocket Billiards" (Crown, 1959).
        Besides his wife, Mr. Mosconi is survived by two daughters, Gloria Dickson and Candace Fritch; a son, William Mosconi, and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 4, 1993, Monday
        An obituary on Sept. 18 about Willie Mosconi, the great pocket billiards player, misidentified the state in which he made a record run of 526 balls in exhibition play in 1954. It was Springfield, Ohio, not Springfield, Ill.
      