
        David G. Cogan, an international leader in ophthalmology who discovered radiation-induced cataracts in the survivors of the atomic bombing of Japan, died on Thursday at a hospital in Wayne, Mich., while on a trip. He was 85 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Cogan worked in ophthalmology, the branch of medicine that deals with the structure, functions and diseases of the eye, as a clinician, researcher, scholar and teacher. He is considered the founder of the subspecialty of neuro-ophthalmology, and his 1966 text, "Neurology of the Visual System," was a major contribution.
        He served as the director of the Howe Laboratory of Ophthalmology at Harvard Medical School, from 1940 to 1974. In that time he was also the director of the department of ophthalmology for six years and retired as a professor emeritus.
        After leaving Harvard, he joined the National Eye Institute, where he served as chief of neuro-ophthalmology for 11 years and then as a senior medical officer for the last eight years.
        Dr. Cogan wrote 500 articles published in professional journals and several books. He had served as the chief editor of Archives of Ophthalmology, an American Medical Association journal, for six years. Radiation Effects Discovered
        In 1949 he and Dr. Forrest Martin reported a high incidence of cataracts among the survivors of the atomic bomb explosions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The cataracts were the first cases of delayed illnesses from the bombs' radiation. The study was ordered by the Atomic Energy Commission.
        While at Harvard, he was the head of the Ophthalmological Laboratories of the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary. He was also a consultant, and a founder of the American Ophthalmological History Society.
        His honors included awards from the Association for Research in Vision, the American Ophthalmological Society, the International Council of Ophthalmology, the American Medical Association, the National Institutes of Health and the Lighthouse for the Blind.
        Dr. Cogan was born in Fall River, Mass. His mother, Edith Ives Cogan, was an ophthalmologist.
        After graduating from Dartmouth, he earned his medical degree at Harvard and completed his residency in ophthalmology in 1935.
        His survivors include his wife of 59 years, the former Frances Capps, a medical doctor who also did research in ophthalmology; two daughters, Polly Parsons of Seattle and Priscilla Cogan of Mechanicsville, Md.; a sister, Mary C. Bromage of Ann Arbor, Mich., and four granddaughters.
      