
        Austin G. Cooley, a telecommunications pioneer who helped develop the fax machine, died on Tuesday at his home in Sequim, Wash. He was 93.
        The cause of death was a stroke, said his wife, Helene.
        As a student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1920's, Mr. Cooley designed and engineered transmitters that would translate a photographic negative into electrical signals that could then be transmitted by radio or telephone, and later by satellite. More Than 75 Patents
        Once received, the signals were electronically decoded and encrypted onto film. Mr. Cooley held more than 75 patents on methods and equipment for the transmission of weather maps, medical X-rays and facsimile material as well as pictures.
        Beginning in 1935, he served in a series of technical and executive positions with various subsidiaries of The New York Times Company. He left the parent company in 1959, when he was the executive vice president and manager of the Times Facsimile Corporation. That year, the corporation was sold to Litton Systems Inc.
        After leaving The New York Times Company, Mr. Cooley served as a vice president and consultant at Litton Systems until 1970.
        In 1935 Mr. Cooley achieved the first transmission of news photographs for The Times, pictures of survivors of the ill-fated dirigible Macon. The Navy dirigible exploded over the Pacific Ocean, killing two people. The pictures were from Wide World Wirephoto, a Times news service of that time, for which Mr. Cooley designed and built photo-facsimile equipment for the transmission of news photographs. Honors From War Dept.
        During War War II, Mr. Cooley, then manager of Times Telephoto Equipment Inc., another Times subsidiary, was honored along with the company by the War Department for the development of ways to send weather maps by radio waves and telephone lines. It was to be the forerunner of today's worldwide daily weather maps.
        In the 1950's Mr. Cooley, then a vice president of the Times Facsimile Corporation, helped develop a device that could be carried aboard ships that allowed their crews to receive weather maps sent by radio, a major advance in marine navigation.
        The origins of the development of the modern-day fax machine date to the early 1930's, when The New York Times published a news article about Mr. Cooley when he was experimenting with the transmission of news pictures over ordinary telephone lines.
        By the end of 1934, Mr. Cooley was hired by Arthur Hays Sulzberger, who was to become publisher of The New York Times, expressly to develop a facsimile machine that was small enough for a person to carry and able to use regular long-distance telephone lines.
        Today's fax machine evolved over several decades of research and development, spearheaded by Mr. Cooley's vision and a series of corporate sponsors that provided the financial support for his work.
        Born in Seattle, Mr. Cooley spent much of his youth in Alaska. At the age of 16 he installed the first radio station at Little Port Walter, Alaska. He began working on the concept of wireless image transmission while a student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was in charge of its experimental radio station, 1XM. College Years
        His wife recalled that in the middle of his senior year at M.I.T. "he paid more attention to his inventions than his textbooks." M.I.T. records show that he never graduated. But in 1973 he received a professional engineering degree, the equivalent of a doctorate, from the University of Alaska.
        Mr. Cooley was the recipient of numerous awards, including the Marconi Medal from the Veteran Wireless Operators Association in 1956. He also wrote many articles published in technical journals.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cooley is survived by a daughter, Donna Cooley of Sequim, and two sisters, Zoe Green of Seattle and Carrie Grafton of Burlington, Wash.
      