
        Chandler Brossard, a writer, an editor and an educator, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Brossard, who was self-educated, wrote or edited 17 books of fiction and nonfiction. He was the author of four plays, all of which were produced in St. Louis in the early 1960's.
        Over the years, he taught or was writer in residence at the State University College at Old Westbury, L.I., the University of Birmingham in England, the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, Schiller College in Paris, the University of California at Riverside, and the University of San Diego.
        He was born in Idaho Falls and was brought up in Washington. At 11, he decided that school offered him little. He quit and immersed himself in the literary classics with his older brother Vincent as his guide. Newspapers and Magazines
        At 18, he took a copy boy's job at The Washington Post. He became a reporter, then moved on to New York, where he was a writer and editor at The New Yorker, senior editor at Time, assistant managing editor at Coronet and executive editor at American Mercury. From 1956 to 1967, he was a senior editor at Look magazine.
        His first novel, "Who Walk in Darkness" (1952), was peopled by hipsters and set in Greenwich Village. The stories and novels that followed usually received mixed receptions for their unconventional style and characters. Others perceived Mr. Brossard as one of the country's most underappreciated authors. His novel "Did Christ Make Love?," about a white clergyman in a black Harlem parish, came out in 1973. His most recent one, "As the Wolf Howls at My Doors," was published in 1992 by Dalkey Archive Press, which also plans to publish a collection of his shorter writings soon. Worked With Vincent Price
        Mr. Brossard collaborated with Vincent Price in the editing of "Eighteen Best Stories of Edgar Allan Poe" (1965). He also edited "The Scene Before You: A New Approach to American Culture" (1955), comprising 24 essays on aspects of sex and science, movies and Greenwich Village, with Lionel Trilling and Arthur Schlesinger Jr. among the contributors.
        Mr. Brossard, who was twice divorced, is survived by three daughters, Dr. Iris Brossard of Wichita, Kan.; Marie Brossard and Geneve Brossard, both of Manhattan; a brother, Boyd, of Manhattan; a sister, Adele Brossard Hernandez of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      