
        James H. Doolittle, an aviation pioneer and a retired lieutenant general in the Air Force who led the daylight air raid on Tokyo and other Japanese cities four months after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, died yesterday at the age of 96.
        He died at his son's home after suffering a stroke earlier this month, The Associated Press reported.
        Long before World War II, the chunky, rugged, baldish Jimmy Doolittle, who was just 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighed 160 pounds, was a legendary figure in aviation.
        Because of his accomplishments as a test and stunt pilot and as a aviation engineer, he was referred to by one admirer as "the Leonardo da Vinci of flight." But in his typically self-deprecating way, he laughed at that description and said: "The guy's wrong. What he meant was I'm the Rube Goldberg of aviation."
        He was a lieutenant colonel in the Army Air Corps when he led the raid on Japan that lifted the hearts of a demoralized American people reeling from the Japanese attack and served warning to the enemy that the United States could fight back.
        The raid, by 16 American attack bombers, from an aircraft carrier, won Gen. Doolittle the Medal of Honor and sealed his reputation as a legendary figure in aviation. The raid could not have come at a more opportune time.
        For more than four months after the United States was thrust into the war by the attack on Pearl Harbor, the American people had been on the edge of despair. Dismal Reports, Sinking Morale
        Day after dismal day came reports of defeats at the hands of the Japanese in the Philippines and elsewhere in the Pacific, and in Europe the Allies continued to suffer losses to the Axis powers. But then, on April 18, 1942, the Doolittle raiders brought the war to the Japanese homeland.
        In the raid, launched from the pitching deck of the Hornet 620 miles off Japan, 16 B-25's, normally land-based, dumped tons of incendiary bombs on military and industrial targets in Tokyo and Yokohama, Kobe, Nagoya and Osaka.
        The American air assault, which made its leader perhaps the first genuine American hero of World War II, did much more than lift the spirits of Americans. It demonstrated that the enemy was vulnerable to attack. More important, the raid left open a threat that it could happen again, a threat that forced the Japanese to take defensive measures that proved exceedingly costly.
        The Japanese had been complacent in the belief that the United States, with much of its fleet destroyed and rusting at the bottom of Pearl Harbor, possessed no striking power. The war was far away and going well for the Japanese. Raid Changed Strategy
        But after the twin-engine American bombers, with a total of 80 men in their crews, spent a few terrifying minutes over Tokyo, Japanese officials called back a strong carrier fleet from the Indian Ocean, where it had been rampaging at will after knocking out the British Eastern Fleet, and sent it speeding to protect the Japanese home islands.
        In addition, fighter planes badly needed in the South Pacific were returned to Japan to help protect aircraft and munitions factories and shipyards from attack. That move helped the United States get a foothold on Guadalcanal Island four months after the Doolittle raid.
        The day ofter the raid, an elated President Roosevelt ordered the promotion of Lieut. Col. James Harold Doolittle to brigadier general, skipping the rank of full colonel. A month later, at the White House, the President personally decorated General Doolittle with the Medal of Honor. The citation read:
        "With the apparent certainty of being forced to land in enemy territory or to perish at sea, Colonel Doolittle personally led a squadron of Army bombers, manned by volunteer crews, in a highly destructive raid on the Japanese mainland."  Psychological Impact Great
        In terms of causing material damage to the enemy, the raid was not very effective, but its psychological and long-range impact was far greater, helping to change the trend of the war in the Pacific.
        "It was important to morale both here and in Japan, because the raid brought it up here and destroyed it there," Gen. Doolittle said at West Point in 1983, when he became the 25th recipient of the United States Military Academy's Sylvanus Thayer Award, for distinguished military service.
        General Doolittle pointed out the high cost of sending the enemy that spectacular message: All 16 of his bombers were lost. He and his own crew, along with the crews of nine other B-25's, bailed out over China and made their way to safety. One man was killed bailing out over China and two others drowned trying to swim a lake to escape capture by Japanese occupation forces. Of eight crewmen captured in China, three were executed. The remaining five were given life sentences, and one of them died of starvation. Three additional crews survived crash landings on the China coast and reached safety.
        The last plane had to land in the Soviet Union, which, because it was not at war with Japan, confiscated the bomber and interned the crew. Europe and Africa
        General Doolittle's war was far from over. He went on to command the Strategic Air Forces, the 12th Air Force in Britain and the 15th Air Force in North Africa and Italy. Later, in the final phase of the war in Europe, his Eighth Air Force played an important part in forcing Nazi Germany into unconditional surrender, destroying military and industrial targets and downing some 10,000 enemy aircraft.
        He was born Dec. 14, 1896, in Alameda, Calif., the son of Rosa Shephard Doolittle and Frank H. Doolittle, whose "gold fever" had caused him to move from New England to California. In 1900 another gold rush took the family to Alaska, where, as a child, Jimmy Doolittle learned to use his fists on the streets of boomtown Nome. At the age of 11, the boy was sent back to California for an education.
        While in high school in Los Angeles, he won a statewide boxing championship and considered a career in professional boxing. He was a junior at the University of California at Los Angeles when the United States entered World War I and enlisted as a flying cadet in the Army Signal Corps, which gave him a commission. He never got overseas, however, spending the war as a flying instructor.
        Remaining in the Army, he earned a bachelor's degree from the University of California and studied aeronautical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, from which he received master's and doctoral degrees in science.  Honored for Pioneer Flight
        He also did his share of stunt flying in the 1920's and 1930's, and was adept at wing-walking. In 1922 he made the first of several cross-country flights, one a one-stop journey from Florida to California in an elapsed time of 22 hours 30 minutes, an extraordinary accomplishment at the time, and one that won him the Distinguished Flying Cross.
        Granted a leave from the Army in 1925, the young officer toured South America to demonstrate airplanes for American manufacturers. In Santiago, Chile, he broke both ankles in a fall from a window, but insisted on flying against the German ace Ernst von Schoenbeck, a member of the Richtofen Flying Circus, which plagued the Allies in World War II.
        Capt. Doolittle's ankle cast cracked under the strain of pressing the controls to perform rolls and flying upside down, but he outflew his German rival. He continued his South American tour with new ankle casts, winning a large Chilean Government order for American military planes. But he had to pay a price -- nearly a year in the hospital for ankle surgery and recuperation. First to Make Outside Loop
        A test pilot from 1922 on, Capt. Doolittle was the first flier to achieve an outside loop, an extremely hazardous acrobatic feat when airplanes were still relatively primitive.
        And, in an achievement of incalculable importance, he was the first pilot to fly blind in a completely covered cockpit, guided only by instruments. That historic flight occurred Sept. 29, 1929, at Mitchel Field in central Nassau County, L.I.
        Making the first all-instrument takeoff and landing won Jimmy Doolittle the Harmon Trophy as well as the Daniel Guggenheim Medal for notable achievement in the advancement of aeronautics.
        In 1930, Maj. Doolittle, for reasons of "advanced age" -- he was 34 years old -- resigned his Regular Army commission. Air Race Trophies Captured
        He continued to fly, winning both the Bendix Trophy and the Thompson Trophy for speed races, and, as an executive of the Shell Oil Company, he got much of the credit for the development of 100-octane aviation gasoline. Moreover, it was on Maj. Doolittle's recommendation that 100-octane fuel became the standard for military aircraft, a factor that played an important role in winning World War II. The higher-octane fuel extended the range of Allied bombers and made it possible for fighter planes to climb higher than those of the enemy.
        Returning to active duty in May 1940, Maj. Doolittle tested the fighter and bomber aircraft the United States was rushing into production as World War II spread, In January 1942 he was given the supersecret assignment of planning and executing the first air raid on Japan.
        Never before had planes the size of B-25's taken off from an aircraft carrier, and to make that feat possible, the Doolittle raider planes were stripped of armament and equipped with additional rubber fuel tanks. The pilots, all volunteers, had to learn to take off at 60 rather than 90 miles an hour, and in one-third of the B-25's usual takeoff distance. Ship Moved Out to Sea
        Because the Hornet was sighted by a Japanese fishing vessel, the takeoff from the storm-tossed deck of the carrier occurred 620 miles from the Japanese coast, rather than the planned 400 miles, after which the Hornet sped off to evade retaliation.
        Led by Col. Doolittle, the planes crossed the Japanese coast barely 30 feet above the ground and then released their bombs over arsenals, aircraft factories, shipyards and oil refineries from heights of 500 to 1,500 feet.
        The plan was for the bombers to hit their targets and fly on across the China Sea to emergency airfields on the Chinese mainland, but none reached the fields.
        The news of the spectacular raid set off wild celebrations around the world. President Roosevelt, wishing to keep the Japanese confused, said only that the Doolittle raid was launched from Shangri-La, the name of the mythical Tibetan paradise in "Lost Horizon," the James Hilton novel.  Then a Real Shangri-La
        It was not until nearly a year later that Shangri-La was identified as the Hornet, but by that time the carrier had been sunk after being irreparably damaged in the Battle of Santa Cruz. A new Hornet was built, along with another carrier really named Shangri-La.
        Gen. Doolittle returned to Shell Oil after the war and served as president of the Institute of Aeronautical Science. As chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautic,s he directed a program of research financed by the Government, and he was also on the President's Scientific Advisory Committee.
        General Doolittle was married to his high school sweetheart, the former Josephine Daniels. They had two sons, James Jr. and John, both of whom became Air Force pilots.
        Correction:  September 29, 1993, Wednesday
        The obituary of Lieut. Gen. James H. Doolittle in late editions yesterday misidentified his college. He was at the University of California at Berkeley when the United States entered World War I; the University of California at Los Angeles did not exist then.
        The obituary also misstated the history of the Richtofen Flying Circus, the squadron of German pilots that plagued the Allies. It fought in World War I, not World War II.
        A picture caption with the obituary misstated the year the general accepted the Medal of Honor from President Franklin D. Roosevelt. It was 1942, not 1945.
        The obituary is reprinted today on page B9 for readers who did not receive it.
      