
        Russel B. Nye, a retired professor and historian of American culture and literature who won the 1945 Pulitzer Prize for biography, died on Thursday at a hospital in Lansing, Mich. He was 80 and lived in East Lansing.
        The cause was complications from a fall, his family said.
        Dr. Nye taught English at the Michigan State University for 39 years until his retirement in 1979 and served 13 years as chairman of the English Department there.
        As a student of cultural trends, his varied interests included the jazz musician Bix Beiderbecke, the Civil War battlefield at Gettysburg, The Chicago Tribune comic strips, the "Gunsmoke" television series, Tom Swift and Horatio Alger books, hair styles and automobile racing.
        "I keep up with cheap literature omnivorously," he said in a 1970 interview. "You never known when you'll find something of interest or importance or just plain fun."
        The author of a dozen books in 30 years, he won his Pulitzer award for his first work, "George Bancroft: Brahmin Rebel" (Knopf, 1944).
        That book had its origin in Dr. Nye's youthful browsing through his grandfather's library. It contained Bancroft's 10-volume treatise on the United States, the first major history of the nation. Bancroft was also a politician, Presidential adviser, diplomat in the 19th century. He served as Secretary of the Navy for President James K. Polk in the 1840's and the founder of the naval academy at Annapolis, and in the 1830's was a spokesman for the Jacksonian Democrats.  Biography Praised
        Dr. Nye did his doctoral thesis on Bancroft, then expanded it into a book. A review in The New York Times Book Review by Howard Mumford Jones, a Harvard dean, called the biography a solid historical contribution.
        In a Times review of "The Unembarrassed Muse: The Popular Arts in America" (Dial, 1970), Christopher Lehmann-Haupt called Dr. Nye "a prodigious scavenger of the trivial past" and said, "Reading his book is like spending an afternoon in a country antique store."
        Other books by Dr. Nye included "Society and Culture in America: 1830-1860" (Harper & Row, 1974), "Midwestern Progressive Politics" (Michigan State College, 1951) and, with J. E. Morpurgo, "A History the United States" (Penguin, 1955).
        Dr. Nye was born in Viola, Wis. After graduating from Oberlin College, he earned a master's degree and doctorate in English literature at the University of Wisconsin. He taught there and at Jordan College and Adelphi University before joining the faculty at Michigan State. He won Rockefeller and Newberry Library fellowships.
        Surviving are his wife of 55 years, the former Kathryn Chaney; a son, Pete, of Elkhart Lake, Wis., and a granddaughter.
      