
        Bruce Ferden, a conductor who made his Metropolitan Opera debut last October with the world premiere of Philip Glass's opera "The Voyage," died on Sunday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 44 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Frank Ream.
        In 1980 Mr. Ferden conducted the world premiere of Mr. Glass's "Satyagraha" at the Netherlands Opera and later the European premiere of "The Making of the Representative for Planet 8," also by Mr. Glass, in the Netherlands.
        At the Dallas Opera, Mr. Ferden conducted "Lucia di Lammermoor" in January, as well as a triple bill of Manuel de Falla operas. In June, he recorded "The Music of Elinor Remick Warren" with the baritone Thomas Hampson and the Polish Radio and Television Orchestra in Cracow, Poland.
        During the 1991-92 season, he was general music director of the city of Aachen in Germany, leading both symphonic and operatic performances including productions of "The Bartered Bride," "Katya Kabanova" and "The Love for Three Oranges." Appeared With Several Orchestras
        For six seasons ending in 1991, Mr. Ferden was the music director of the Spokane (Wash.) Symphony. In addition, he was music director of the Nebraska Chamber Orchestra from 1982 to 1991. He also appeared with the Pittsburgh Symphony and conducted at Next Wave Festival of the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
        He also appeared frequently with the Seattle Opera, leading performances of "Rigoletto," "Satyagraha," "Tales of Hoffmann," "Rusalka," "Lucia di Lammermoor" and, in the summer of 1992, "Aida."
        Mr. Ferden was born in Fosston, Minn. He studied at Moorhead State University in Minnesota and at the University of Miami. He did graduate work at the University of Southern California and at the Juilliard School. At the age of 25 he was appointed assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic after working with Peter Herman Adler at the American Opera Center.
        He conducted the theme and music for the credits for the PBS production of "Smithsonian World," and music by John Corigliano for "The Adams Chronicles."
        In addition to Mr. Ream, he is survived by his parents, Maurice and Irene Ferden of Fosston, Minn.; a brother, Maurice Jr., of Dawson, Minn., and two sisters, Pam Hagen of Apple Valley, Minn., and Joni Precht of Miami.
      