
        Dr. Aleksandr M. Nekrich, a Russian historian at Harvard University, died on Tuesday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge. A resident of Cambridge, he was 73.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said Prof. Adam Ulam, a colleague and former director of Harvard's Russian Research Center, where Dr. Nekrich was a senior research fellow.
        Dr. Nekrich was allowed to leave the Soviet Union in 1976, some years after his freedom to write and work there had been curtailed by the academic establishment, which was subservient to Communist Party ideologues. He joined the Harvard faculty as a research fellow and attained the rank of senior fellow in 1987.
        Born in Baku, Azerbaijan, he graduated from Moscow State University and earned a Ph.D. at Moscow's Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences, where he also received a post-doctoral degree. From 1956 until 1976 he held the title of senior scholar at the history institute.
        But his book "June 22, 1941," published in 1965 and translated in the West, was an account of Stalin's actual prewar performance. The official Soviet view was that he had been a steady military commander of great wisdom.
        Stalin's crimes had been revealed years before by Nikita S. Khrushchev, but Dr. Nekrich's documentation of Stalin's blunders and Soviet unpreparedness for the German invasion of 1941 struck a raw nerve in Moscow, and he was expelled from the Communist Party.
        After he left the Soviet Union, more of Dr. Nekrich's books appeared on both sides of the Atlantic. They included "The Punished Peoples" (W. W. Norton, 1978), on Stalin's banishment of whole nationalities. Dr. Nekrich himself witnessed deportations in the Crimea, and his book traced the fates of those ethnic groups.
        Later, with Michael Heller, he wrote "Utopia in Power" (Summit Books, 1986), a widely acclaimed history of the Soviet Union.
        Fluent in German, he recently completed a study of Soviet-German relations between the wars, which is headed for publication, Professor Ulam said.
      