
        Dr. Frederick Campion Steward, a botanist and cell biologist whose research in the late 1950's reshaped scientific knowledge of how plants regenerate, died on Monday at his home in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 89 and had been in poor health for several years.
        Dr. Steward, a Cornell University professor emeritus of biological sciences, was a leading scientific figure in the development of modern plant physiology. His most important contribution came in 1958, when he established that plants could be totally regenerated from one cell.
        The finding revolutionized the world of plant cell biology, establishing for the first time that plant cuttings and shoots were no longer required to propagate hybrids and create mutations.
        He determined that individual plant cells contained all the necessary information to regulate the entire plant organism. His discovery of the means to obtain such regeneration has formed the basis of the entire field of plant molecular biology. Advance for Clones
        Such a discovery meant that clones, hybrids and mutations of plants could be accomplished in the laboratory rather than having to resort to the far longer and cumbersome process of taking and then cultivating cuttings.
        Dr. Steward, who preferred to be called F. C. or Camp, was also responsible for creating and inspiring a generation of biological scientists from his Cornell lecture halls, classrooms and laboratories. There, until he retired in 1973, he inveighed in an English accent against the overspecialization and the fragmentation of scientific research.
        Former students said his lectures in advanced plant physiology were the high point of their educations. He was a spellbinding lecturer, and his classroom ultimately became a kind of international salon for visiting scientists from all over the world.
        Along with his findings on plant regeneration, Dr. Steward made important contributions in several other areas.
        He did pioneering work in the accumulation of nutrients by roots and plant tissues, and he established a central role for metabolism in the nutritive equilibrium in plants.
        He also made important contributions to understanding how plants synthesize proteins, and he recognized the significance of hormonal regulation in the growth of tissue by cell division.
        In 1961, Dr. Steward received the American Merit Award from the Botanical Society. Three years later, he was awarded the Stephen Hales Prize from the American Society of Plant Physiologists for his contributions to the knowledge of cell differentiation and specific cell growth factors.
        Dr. Steward was born in London on June 16, 1904. He received a Ph.D. in botany from the University of Leeds in 1924 under Professor J. H. Priestly, a scientist with renegade and innovative views who instilled Dr. Steward with a strong sense of independence.
        A Rockefeller Foundation fellowship took him first to Cornell in 1924 and then to the University of California at Berkeley four years later. He received a Doctor of Science degree from the University of London in 1938 as recognition for the scientific contributions he had already made.
        After serving in the Ministry of Aircraft Production in Britain in World War II, he returned to this country, holding appointments at the Universities of Chicago and Rochester before finally settling in at Cornell in 1950.
        In 1956, two years before he published his landmark findings, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a year later to the Royal Society of London.
        Dr. Steward wrote more than 100 scientific journal articles and several books and was an editor and contributor to the 10 volumes and 15 books of "Plant Physiology: A Treatise" (Academic Press, 1959-1991).
        He is survived by his wife, Anne, whom he had met as a postdoctoral fellow at Cornell; a son, F. Gordon, of Tuscaloosa, and two grandchildren.
      