
        Yolanda Serrano, the head of a private addiction and AIDS prevention organization in New York City that fought for the distribution of free needles and syringes to prevent infection, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 45.
        Her associates said the cause was cancer.
        Mrs. Serrano startled the authorities in 1988 when she said she would defy a New York State law banning the unauthorized use of needles and syringes. She said she would distribute clean needles and syringes to drug addicts who were infecting themselves with the virus that causes AIDS through injections with contaminated needles.
        Her pressure led to a pilot needle-exchange program by the New York City Department of Health. But Mayor David N. Dinkins stopped the program shortly after taking office in 1990, fearing, he said, that the sanctioning of a needle-exchange program might encourage drug use and send the wrong message to young people.
        Nevertheless, Mrs. Serrano's nonprofit organization, Adapt, or the Association for Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment, continued to defy state law by giving out clean needles to addicts, and the police rarely interfered. 'To Take the First Step'
        Mrs. Serrano said she and her organization risked prosecution because the AIDS epidemic threatened addicts and their families with death. "Somebody has to take the first step," she said.
        At the time, the City Health Commissioner, Dr. Stephen C. Joseph, who supported a pilot needle-exchange program, said he could not condone an illegal action. But he praised Adapt as a "group that clearly has a great deal of expertise, the most credible community action group in New York City, a very responsible group."
        Today, the tide against needle exchanges has turned, and Adapt is one of five groups in the city that have received contracts from the State Department of Health to exchange needles, in part because intravenous drug users and their companions now represent the fasting-growing groups at risk of AIDS.
        For years Mrs. Serrano and volunteers from such groups as Act Up and the Gay Men's Health Crisis combed alleys and abandoned buildings in the worst areas of the city seeking to talk addicts into exchanging their needles for clean ones.
        Mrs. Serrano was born in Puerto Rico, lived in Brooklyn and graduated from St. Francis College in Brooklyn. She worked in the Narcotics Bureau of the Brooklyn District Attorney, the Victim's Services Agency and the State Division of Criminal Justice Services. Her concern about drug abuse grew from her 10 years as a substance abuse specialist at Long Island College Hospital, where she saw the initial ravages of the AIDS epidemic in the early 1980's.
        As the founder of Adapt, Mrs. Serrano took part in several Federal and state panels dealing with drug addiction and AIDS. She was vice president of the Hispanic AIDS Forum, secretary of the Latino Commission on AIDS and a member of the Health and Human Services H.I.V. Planning Council of New York.
        Mrs. Serrano was also a consultant to the Government of Australia's AIDS prevention programs and presented papers at many national and international AIDS conferences.
        A funeral service will be held at 9:30 A.M. tomorrow at St. Agnes Roman Catholic Church, 417 Sackett Street, Brooklyn.
        She is survived by her parents, Dhelia and Gaspar Serrano; two daughters, Beverly and Starr Astor; three sisters, Nora, Maria and Debbie, and a brother, Michael.
      