
        Frank J. Del Giudice, an industrial designer who developed the interiors of American passenger jets from the earliest model to modern aircraft like the jumbo 747, died on Oct. 17 at his home in Seattle. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Del Giudice's specialty began in 1946 when he headed a team of designers that helped the Boeing Company convert its B-29 bomber from World War II into the Boeing Stratocruiser passenger ship. He soon saw the potential market for air travel, and that project evolved into a lifetime career.
        His immediate challenge was to transform the raw, unfinished interior of the the plane's body, a noisy and cramped aluminum tube, into a more comfortable setting. 2 Books Chronicled His Work
        Among the solutions were vinyl-clad panels for a finished surface that was also easy to clean, colors chosen to be pleasing, cabin lighting, call buttons for flight attendants and overhead sections with individual reading lights and oxygen masks, all standard features of today's planes.
        His contributions are described in "Wide-Body: The Triumph of the 747" by Clive Irving (Morrow, 1993) and "Legend and Legacy: The Story of Boeing and Its People" by Robert J. Serling (St. Martin's, 1992). In 1982, he was one of 10 designers featured in an exhibit at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. The catalogue described the interiors of Boeing planes as "the most familiar manufactured environment in the world." A Single Employer
        Mr. Del Giudice's entire career was at Walter Dorwin Teague Associates, an international industrial design and systems engineering firm based in Manhattan, of which he became president and chief executive in 1972. After retiring from those posts in 1982, he served as chairman until 1987.
        Teague, which opened a branch in Seattle for Boeing, designed the interior of every generation of its jets.
        The 707, introduced in 1958, was described by Teague as the world's first commercially successful jetliner. In planning it, Mr. Del Giudice wrote in a 1950 that air travel should stress speed, efficiency, comfort, safety and passenger appeal and "should be designed with consumer acceptance in mind."
        Mr. Del Giudice taught for 16 years at the industrial design program at the University of Washington.
        He was born in the Bronx. After studying advertising design at Pratt Institute, he began working at Teague in 1938. His early projects included pens, pencils and a desk lamp.
        His survivors include his wife of 53 years, the former Norma Westman; three daughters, Rosemary Del Giudice of Kent, Wash., and Barbara and Norma Marie Del Giudice, both of Seattle; a sister, Marie Amicucci of Helena, Mont., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 27, 1993, Wednesday
        An obituary on Sunday about Frank J. Del Giudice, an industrial designer who died on Oct. 17, omitted a surviving son. He is Peter of Plains, Mont.
      