
        Harold J. Rome, who wrote witty, often socially pointed songs for Broadway shows that included "Pins and Needles," "Wish You Were Here," "Fanny," "Destry Rides Again" and "I Can Get It for You Wholesale," died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his son, Joshua.
        A composer who was unable to find work as an architect in Depression-era America and who went on to use his musical talents to campaign against social injustice, Mr. Rome was described by one critic in the 1930's as "a Noel Coward with a social conscience."
        Mr. Rome's musical career began as part of the labor movement with the Labor Stage production in 1937 of his satirical revue, "Pins and Needles," which was first written to entertain members of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.
        The show, which spoofed both bosses and workers, introduced two of his best-known songs, "Sunday in the Park," and "Sing Me a Song With Social Significance," the song he always performed at benefits and club appearances, and which became something of a signature tune for him.
        Among Mr. Rome's other well-known songs are "South America Take It Away," "When We Meet Again," "Fanny," "Wish You Were Here," "All of a Sudden My Heart Sings" and "Franklin D. Roosevelt Jones," which became popular in the early days of World War II.
        He was also the author of the song "Military Life," which contained the deathless couplet, "through the slush and the slosh/and the mish and the mosh."
        Mr. Rome was born on May 27, 1908, in Hartford. His father, Louis Rome, owned the Connecticut Coal Company. He received a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1929, then studied at the Yale Law School and transferred to the Yale School of Architecture, where he showed talent in design and painting, and earned a degree in 1934.
        He supported his studies by writing scores for dance bands and by playing the piano in clubs and dance halls. He once recalled that he used to slip into his repertory a swing version of the "Internationale," the Communist anthem.
        After graduation, he continued to support himself with his music. "I was an architect with no buildings to build, a painter with no patrons," he once said. "I even studied law, but hidden in my subconscious mind there was always a tune and a catch-line of social significance."
        In the mid-1930's, one of his lyrics intrigued Gypsy Rose Lee, and she helped him sell it. Another of his tunes, "Horror Boys of Hollywood," was bought by the Ritz Brothers to use in "One in a Million."  Work in the Adirondacks
        In 1935 he finally found an outlet for his musical talents at Green Mansions, a summer camp in the Adirondacks at Warrensburg, N.Y. It was the summer home of the Group Theater, and after writing and producing nine musicals in several summers there, Mr. Rome made a connection with Labor Stage, which used some of the material he had written at Green Mansions in its production of "Pins and Needles."
        The show, which was described by a critic of the time as "a sort of socially significant newsreel in the flesh," opened as a weekend entertainment, moved to Broadway and soon became a hit, enjoying a four-year run. Among its songs were "It's Better With a Union Man" and "Not Cricket to Picket."
        Mr. Rome's second revue, "Sing Out the News," written in collaboration with Charles Friedman, produced the hit song "Franklin D. Roosevelt Jones," which subsequently won that year's Ascap Award.
        Soon Mr. Rome moved on to book musicals, which required ballads and situation songs as well as some satire. His first effort was "The Little Dog Laughed," in 1940. "Call Me Mister," Mr. Rome's 1946 Broadway hit, drew its performing talent from members of the armed forces.
        His 1952 Broadway musical, "Wish You Were Here," boasted what then seemed to be a sensational novelty. The show, set at Camp Karefree, a summer mating ground for young singles in the heart of the Catskills, featured a $15,000 swimming pool built into the center of the stage. The gimmick gave the director Joshua Logan an excuse to make the musical something of a beauty parade. Streisand's 'Miss Marmelstein'
        The 1962 production of Mr. Rome's "I Can Get It for You Wholesale" featured the Broadway debut of Barbra Streisand, whose performance of the show-stopper, "Miss Marmelstein," brought her stardom.
        Mr. Rome's musical adaptation of "Gone With the Wind," called "Scarlett," was performed in Tokyo in 1970, the Drury Lane Theater in London in 1972, and in Los Angeles, but didn't come to Broadway. Mr. Rome was elected to the Songwriters' Hall of Fame in 1981, and the Theater Hall of Fame 1991. In 1985 he won the Ascap Richard Rodgers Award. He won a Drama Desk Award in 1990.
        In addition to his son, of Kyoto, Japan, he is survived by his wife, Florence, of Manhattan; a daughter, Rachel, of Los Angeles; two sisters, Ruth Steiner of Los Angeles, and Betty Morris of Indianapolis, and two grandchildren.
      