
        George W. Pierson, the first official historian of Yale University and an authority on Alexis de Tocqueville, died on Tuesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 88.
        He had had a long illness, a spokeswoman for the university said.
        Professor Pierson was a descendant of Abraham Pierson, a founder of Yale and its first president. After receiving a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1926, he immediately joined the faculty. He earned a doctorate in history there in 1933 and was named to an endowed professorship in 1946. He remained at the university as a professor and an administrator until his retirement in 1973.
        Professor Pierson served as chairman of the history department from 1956 to 1962, expanding the department's curriculum to include greater emphasis on Asian history. He recruited the noted historians Arthur and Mary Wright to teach Chinese history and John W. Hall to teach Japanese history.
        Mr. Pierson also recruited and worked closely with such influential historians as C. Vann Woodward, John Blum, Edmund S. Morgan and Howard R. Lamar, who recently served as Yale's interim president.
        From 1964 to 1970, he was the first director of Yale's Division of the Humanities. Known as 'Father Yale'
        Mr. Pierson, who was called "Father Yale" by his friends and colleagues in the latter years of his life, wrote several books on the history of Yale. His last was "The Founding of Yale: The Legend of the 40 Folios," published by Yale University Press in 1987.
        He also wrote about Tocqueville and his co-author, Gustave de Beaumont. Mr. Pierson is the author of "Tocqueville and Beaumont in America," published in 1938 by Oxford University Press. An abridged edition, "Tocqueville in America," was published in 1959 by Doubleday. With the help of Beaumont's great-granddaughter in France, Mr. Pierson assembled an archive of the manuscripts of Tocqueville and Beaumont that is recognized as the best collection of their writings in America.
        His first wife, the former Laetitia Verdery, died in 1982.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Loueva Pflueger; two daughters, Norah of Sante Fe, N.M., and Laetitia Deems of Petaluma, Calif., and a brother, John Herman Groesbeck of Lenox, Mass.
      