
        Clarence Lewis Barnhart, a lexicographer and editor of dictionaries, died on Sunday at Hudson Valley Hospital Center in Peekskill, N.Y. A longtime resident of Bronxville, N.Y., he was 92 and lived in Garrison, N.Y.
        Mr. Barnhart fell five weeks ago and his injuries became complicated by an infection, his son David said.
        Before he set out on his own in 1948, Mr. Barnhart worked at Random House where he edited the original American College Dictionary of 1947. For nearly four years he rode herd on 132,000 entries for the 1,472-page volume.
        He always had a keen interest in new words and new usage in the English language. For the last 11 years, he and his son edited the Barnhart Dictionary Companion, published quarterly by Springer-Verlag. The latest update he worked on will appear later this fall.
        Born near Plattsburg, Mo., Mr. Barnhart graduated from the University of Chicago, where he also did postgraduate work from 1934 to 1937. From 1929 until 1945 he was an editor at Scott, Foresman & Company, the Chicago textbook publisher. Honored by War Department
        He collaborated with Edward L. Thorndike, an educational psychologist and adviser on lexicography. Their names then began to appear jointly on a series of dictionaries and subsequent revisions.
        In World War II, the War Department asked Mr. Barnhart to produce a Dictionary of United States Army Terms, which he did in 1943 and for which the War Department honored him with its Certificate of Appreciation.
        Random House then proposed that he put together an American dictionary. After it appeared in 1947, Mr. Barnhart, who disliked having to work for others, set up shop in Bronxville. His company, Clarence L. Barnhart Inc., continued to produce dictionaries for various levels of readership.
        Working with William D. Hasley, he also edited the three-volume New Century Cyclopedia of Names (Appleton, 1954). More recently, he and his other son, Robert K., produced the The World Book Dictionary of 1986, a revision of The World Book Encyclopedia Dictionary first published in 1963 by Field Enterprises Educational Corporation.
        Mr. Barhart headed his corporation until about 10 years ago. It is now operated by Robert as Barnhart Books in Brewster, N.Y.
        In addition to his sons, David, of Garrison, N.Y., and Robert, of Brewster, N.Y., Mr. Barnhart is survived by a sister, Melba Sims of Tulsa, Okla.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      