
        Dr. David M. Spain, a New York pathologist and civil rights advocate whose autopsies provided evidence in the slayings of three civil rights workers in Mississippi in 1964, died on Saturday in a nursing home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 80 and was a longtime Manhattan resident.
        He had long suffered from Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, Dr. Julie Spain.
        He was Westchester County's chief medical examiner from 1949 to 1953. Over the years, he was also director of pathology at Brookdale Hospital Center in Brooklyn and clinical professor of pathology at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. He also taught at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University.
        In 1964, Dr. Spain performed private autopsies on the bodies of two of three civil rights workers whose bodies were found near Philadelphia, Miss., buried deep in an earthen dam. All three had been shot. Found Evidence of Beating
        After it was reported that official autopsies had shown no evidence of beatings or mutilation, Dr. Spain examined the body of James E. Chaney, 21, at the request of Mr. Chaney's mother.
        He concluded that besides being shot, Mr. Chaney had suffered "an extremely severe beating with either a blunt instrument or a chain." Dr. Spain also examined the body of the second victim, Michael H. Schwerner, 24, at the request of William M. Kunstler, the lawyer representing Mr. Schwerner's parents. Dr. Spain attributed Mr. Schwerner's death to a bullet wound.
        Seven members of the Ku Klux Klan eventually served jail terms for the murders of the two men and Andrew Goodman.
        Dr. Spain's first wife, the former Ruth Borgenicht, died in 1978 after 33 years of marriage.
        He is survived by his wife, Lotte Kunstler; a daughter, Julie, a psychologist who lives in Manhattan; two sons, Dr. Robert, of Manhattan, and Dr. William, of Seattle, both of whom are physicians; two stepdaughters, Karin Goldman of Brooklyn and Dr. Jane Drazek, a physician, of Wichita, Kan.; two grandchildren, and four step-grandchildren.
      