
        Dr. John Zimmerman Bowers, a medical educator and historian, died yesterday at the Harrogate health-care center in Lakewood, N.J. He was 80 and had lived on the East Side of Manhattan until 1989.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        From 1965 to 1980, Dr. Bowers was president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation of New York, which uses its nearly $100 million in assets in the interests of health and medicine. Under his guidance, the foundation instituted programs to bring more women and minority students into medical practice and education.
        Shortly after he took office, he organized periodic Macy Conferences on such topics as the special problems women face in medical school and the help women need to combine postgraduate training with motherhood. Biology for Black Colleges
        He also worked to improve emergency health services in much of the country and to bolster the teaching of biology in black colleges so that students would be better prepared for medical school.
        Dr. Bowers had a keen interest in the Far East that dated to the years after World War II, when he was sent to Japan by the Atomic Energy Commission to examine survivors of the atomic-bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. He returned in the 1960's for three years as a visiting professor at the University of Kyota.
        His books include "Western Medical Pioneers in Feudal Japan" (Johns Hopkins, 1970) and "When the Twain Meet: The Rise of Western Medicine in Japan" (Johns Hopkins, 1981)." He was co-editor of two volumes of essays, "Advances in American Medicine" (Books on Demand) and "Science & Medicine in Twentieth-Century China" (University of Michigan, 1989). Son of Lutheran Pastor
        He was born in Catonsville, Md., the son of a Lutheran pastor. He graduated from Gettysburg College and got his medical degree at the University of Maryland. In World War II, he was a commander in the Navy Medical Corps and served on a destroyer that was torpedoed.
        Before joining the Macy Foundation, he was dean and professor of medical physics at the University of Utah and traveled for the Ford Foundation to train health auxiliaries for the Navajos and in villages in India. After he left the Macy Foundation, he was a consultant for the Rockefeller Foundation and in 1983 completed a history of its health and natural-science programs since 1913.
        He is survived by his wife and collaborator of 23 years, Akiko Kobayashi Bowers; two sons and a daughter by a previous marriage, John C. and David W., of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Dr. Mary Bowers Stone of Sheridan, Wyo., and four grandchildren.
      