
        James A. Buchanan 4th, a major benefactor of Rotary International, died on Sunday at the Baptist Medical Center in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 74 and lived on a farm in Dickerson, Md.
        He died after surgery for an aortal aneurysm, his family said.
        Mr. Buchanan, who owned a construction and remodeling company in Rockville, Md., joined Rotary International in 1952 and was president of the Rockville chapter in 1969. In 1974 he became a national officer of the club, serving as governor of the district in the Washington area.
        In 1985 he made a large contribution to a project in which Rotary, a worldwide service club with more than a million members, helped the World Health Organization immunize more than 500,000 children around the world against polio. He became the largest contributor to the Rotary Foundation in 1990.
        Before the United States entered World War II, Mr. Buchanan joined the British Royal Air Force, flying numerous missions before being severely injured in a plane crash. He then became a flight instructor for the Royal Canadian Air Force in Ontario, serving for two years before being released to join the United States Navy.
        After the war he spent several years as a commercial pilot in South American and Central America.
        Born in Washington, he graduated from Tri-State College in Angola, Ind., with a degree in aeronautical engineering.
        There will be a graveside funeral service at Arlington National Cemetery at 3 P.M. on Monday.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Fay Reuling; three sons, James, of Memphis, John, of Frederick, Md., and Ian, of Lorton, Va.; two daughters, Donalda Ridge of Upperville, Va., and Kathleen Schultz of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a stepson, James Evans of Gaithersburg, Md.; a stepdaughter, Ann Krome of Newmarket, Md., and 10 grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 15, 1993, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about James A. Buchanan, an official and major benefactor of Rotary International, misstated the number of children immunized against polio by the World Health Organization with Rotary's help. It is 500 million, not 500,000.
      