
        Roy Hampton Park, who built a media empire from a fortune he made in the food business, died on Monday night at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y., the base of his enterprise.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said Jack Claiborne of Park Communications Inc., of which Mr. Park was the chairman, chief executive and 90-percent owner.
        In putting together his prospering group of businesses, he kept his eye out for broadcasters and newspapers in smaller towns and cities. At his death, Park Communications included television, radio and newspapers in 24 states with annual revenues of more than $160 million. It owns eight television stations, 22 radio stations and 144 newspapers. Mr. Park remained an active manager until he became ill a few days ago.
        He built his original fortune by promoting the Duncan Hines travel guides and brands of food in partnership with Mr. Hines, a restaurant critic and travel writer. He and Mr. Hines formed Hines-Park Foods in 1950 to license products under the Duncan Hines label. Began Guidebooks in 1936
        Mr. Hines died in 1959, two years after Hines-Park Foods was sold to Procter & Gamble. By then its line had grown to more than 100 products, including the popular Duncan Hines cake mixes.
        He began his guidebooks in 1936 to advise buyers where they might find decent food and lodgings with the "Approved by Duncan Hines" sign. Mr. Park edited the books until 1962, when they were discontinued -- made obsolete by a proliferation of finer restaurants and quality lodgings.
        "Today a traveler is no longer a hardy pioneer challenging an uncharted sea with a stomach of iron and a back of steel," Mr. Park said at the time.
        Using Hines stock as collateral, Mr. Park bought his first television station in 1962, WNCT in Greenville, N.C. He still owned it at his death. Donor to Ithaca College
        Mr. Park had a strong involvement in civic affairs in Ithaca and elsewhere. One of his chief beneficiaries was Ithaca College, to which he donated a new $12 million center to house its School of Communications.
        The school, started in 1931, was renamed after him in 1989, the year the new center was dedicated. It contains 79,000 square feet of television and radio studios, newsrooms and offices for the student newspaper.
        Mr. Park joined the college board of trustees in 1973 and served as chairman for 11 years until he became the board's first chairman emeritus last May.
        He owned orange groves in Florida, timberland in North Carolina, real estate in five states and collected gold watches and antique cars. Born in North Carolina
        Mr. Park was born on a farm near Dobson, N.C., and graduated from North Carolina State University at the age of 20. He got a taste of journalism in high school by writing for three weeklies. In college, he worked part time as a campus correspondent for The Associated Press and as an editor of the student paper.
        After graduation and until he and Mr. Hines got together, he pursued interests in publishing and promotion. He did public relations work for a cotton cooperative and published two farming papers, among other things. He moved to Ithaca in 1942 to do publicity for the Grange League Federation headquartered there.
        Mr. Park is survived by his wife of 57 years, Dorothy Dent Park; a son, Roy H. Jr., and a daughter, Adelaide Park Gomer, both of Ithaca; a sister, Ethel Park Broome of Winston-Salem, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      