
        Lord Grimond, a charismatic leader of Britain's Liberal Party in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Sunday in his home on the Orkney Islands, off the north coast of Scotland. He was 80.
        He died of a stroke, his family told The Associated Press.
        As leader of the Liberal Party from 1956 to 1967, Lord Grimond used his charm and salty wit to become a pillar of parliamentary politics for more than a decade. Lord Grimond represented the northern tip of Scotland in the House of Commons from 1945 to 1983, when he was made a Lord. 'Undiluted Cheerfulness'
        He tried to draw voters to his centrist party. But he never drew enough support to fulfill his hope that the Liberal Party would recapture the position it held before 1922, when the Labor Party replaced it as the party of opposition to the Conservatives.
        "One of the wonders of the British political scene," The Observer wrote in 1965, "is that Grimond goes through the intolerable embarrassments and humiliations of leader in a small parliamentary party in a system geared for two with undiluted cheerfulness. He not only manifestly enjoys life, he also likes people -- even his fellow politicians."
        Lord Grimond strengthened his claim to the Liberal Party mantle in 1938, when he married Laura Bonham-Carter, the great granddaughter of Herbert Asquith, the last Liberal Party leader to become Prime Minister. His wife is the aunt of Helena Bonham-Carter, the actress.
        He was born Joseph Grimond, son of a Scottish jute manufacturer who was also a prominent Liberal.
        After an education at Eton and Oxford, Lord Grimond served briefly as an infantry officer in the Fife and Fofar Yeomanry in World War II, and was a staff major during the invasion of Normandy. At the end of the war, he ran for a seat in the House of Commons as a Liberal but lost by 329 votes.
        After working as the director of personnel for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, he served as the director of the Scottish National Trust in Edinburgh while planning his next campaign. He won election to Parliament in 1950 and moved his official residence to Kirkwall, the main city in the Orkneys.
        Lord Grimond, known as Jo throughout his political career, became the Liberal Party Whip in the House of Commons, and succeeded Clement Davies as leader of the Liberal Party when he retired in 1956. Lord Grimond increased the party's share of the vote to 6 percent in the 1959 general election, compared with 2.7 percent in 1955. He retired in 1967, saying 10 years was long enough for any leader.
        His is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. A third son died in 1966.
      