
        The Rev. Joseph Augustus Hahn, a Maryknoll priest whose accomplishments ranged from mission work to aeronautics and from photography to bridge, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 81 and lived at St. Theresa, a home for retired priests in Maryknoll, N.Y.
        Father Hahn died after a long struggle with cancer, the order said.
        A priest for 51 years, he filled a final 15-year assignment in Maryknoll's Social Communications Department. Until his retirement in 1985 he was in charge of marketing and promotion for Orbis Books, traveling extensively as a photographer for Maryknoll magazine.
        He also made documentaries on Maryknoll missions around the world. In 1980 he interviewed Fidel Castro while visiting Cuba with a team assessing the state of the Roman Catholic Church there. Bridge Expert and Pilot
        Father Hahn also was a licensed pilot. And he was an expert bridge player who was elevated to life master in 1975.
        Father Hahn, a native of Brooklyn, studied at Villanova University, transferred to Massachusetts Institute of Technology and received a B.S. degree in aeronautical engineering in 1934. He worked with lighter-than-air craft on a Guggenheim research fellowship and, after his ordination in 1942, taught science and mechanics at Maryknoll Apostolic College in Clarks Summit, Pa.
        Maryknoll, the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America, has clergy and lay aides working in 29 countries.
        In 1945 he joined the first Maryknoll team sent to Bolivia and the jungles of the Pando Vicariate. There he began to report and take pictures for Maryknoll magazine, riding river boats to remote areas to chronicle the lives of the missionaries and the people they served.
        He then went to China to teach engineering and mathematics at Lingnam University and again made documentaries. He remained in the country after the Communists took over Canton in 1949, but was expelled, along with other foreign missionaries, in 1951.
        He performed publishing and educational tasks for the order in the United States for several years and served in Chile in the early 1960's. In 1965 he became director of Maryknoll's new data-processing operations, for which he developed a computer system.
        He is survived by two brothers, Edmund, of East Williston, L.I., and Francis, of East Syracuse, N.Y., and two sisters, Sister Agnes Ann Hahn of Denville, N.J., and Marie A. Byrne of New Hyde Park, L.I.
      