
        Jess Thomas, an operatic tenor best known for his interpretation of Wagnerian roles, died on Monday in San Francisco. He was 66.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Violetta.
        Mr. Thomas was born in 1927 in Hot Springs, S.D. He studied child psychology at Stanford University before taking up a full-time operatic career in the 1950's. After making his debut with the San Francisco Opera in 1957, he spent several years in Europe, singing Parsifal at Bayreuth in 1961. He made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1962 as Walther in "Die Meistersinger."
        At first he sang lyric roles as well as the heavier Wagnerian repertory, but he increasingly made Wagner his specialty through the 1960's and 70's. Although some critics felt he strained his voice with the Heldentenor roles, his interpretations nevertheless drew high praise. Harold C. Schonberg, writing in The New York Times in 1974, singled out his "clear, intelligent, smooth singing; sympathetic acting; stylish musicianship." Co-Starred With Nilsson
        Among Mr. Thomas's major achievements was a stirring Tristan, a role he performed in the late 1960's and early 70's. He was one of the few tenors who could hold his own against the formidable Isolde of Birgit Nilsson. What he lacked in sheer power he made up for with poetic intensity.
        "One must forfeit ego to communicate ideas," he said in an interview in 1971. "Studying Wagner roles is like peeling an onion. Beneath the first layer is another and another until you reach the center, then -- infinity."
        Mr. Thomas also sang Siegfried, Lohengrin, Samson, Florestan in "Fidelio" and Lensky in "Eugene Onegin," among other roles. His recorded legacy includes "Lohengrin," conducted by Rudolf Kempe (EMI); "Siegfried," conducted by Herbert von Karajan (Deutsche Grammophon) and a famous 1962 Bayreuth "Parsifal" under Hans Knappertsbusch (Philips).
        He is survived, in addition to his wife, by a daughter, Lisabet, and two sons, Jess David and Victor.
      