
        Willard A. Hanna, an author, teacher and expert on Southeast Asia, died on Tuesday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 82.
        The cause was pneumonia after he suffered a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Hanna was the author of many books, most of them nonfiction, about the politics and history of Asia. One novel, "Destiny Has Eight Eyes," published in 1941 by Harper & Brothers, was set in China at the outbreak of World War II.
        From an early age, in his hometown of Cross Creek, Pa., he was fascinated with Asia. Immediately after graduating from the College of Wooster in Wooster, Ohio, in 1932, he traveled to China, where he taught English for four years in Shanghai and Hangzhou.
        After returning to the United States, he earned a master's degree from Ohio State University in 1937 and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan in 1939.
        He joined the Navy in early 1942 and was assigned to the military's Japanese language school at the University of Colorado and then to a military government program at Columbia University. On April 1, 1945, as a lieutenant commander, he took part in the landings on Okinawa and remained in Okinawa for more than a year, helping to set up schools.
        He worked for the State Department for seven years after leaving the Navy, serving in Manila and then Jakarta, Indonesia, where he set up the United States Information Services offices. He ran those offices until 1952, when he was called back to Washington, to attend the National War College. After graduating in 1953 he was assigned to the United States Embassy in Tokyo, where he was an information officer.
        In 1954, Mr. Hanna resigned from the State Department and spent the rest of his career working for the American Universities Field Staff, a foundation studying foreign cultures. Working with that group, he lived in Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Hong Kong. He retired in 1976.
        His other books include "Bali Profile," "The Formation of Malaysia," and "Eight Nation Makers."
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marybelle Bouchard, and a sister, Grace Hanna Arthur of Quincy, Pa.
      