
        Leon Ames, a character actor known for his fatherly roles and a founder of the Screen Actors Guild, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was 91 and had been living in Corona del Mar, Calif.
        The cause was complications brought on by a stroke, said Harry Medved, a spokesman for the Screen Actors Guild.
        Mr. Ames, whose name was Leon Waycoff before he changed it in 1935, was born in Portland, Ind., the son of Russian immigrants. After performing with several touring troupes he joined a theater company in Cincinnati. Broadway Debut in 1933
        In the 1920's, he went to New York, where he sold shoes on 42d Street and apprenticed in stock troupes before making his Broadway debut in "It Pays to Sin," in 1933. He also appeared in the plays "Bright Honor," "The Male Animal," "Slightly Married" and "Winesburg, Ohio."
        He began acting in films in 1932, appearing as the hero in "Murders in the Rue Morgue." His appearance in "Meet Me in St. Louis" in 1944 led to numerous roles as a firm but loving father in film and on television, where he starred in "Life With Father" (1953-55) and "Father of the Bride" (1961-62). One exception was the role of prosecuting attorney in "The Postman Always Rings Twice," in 1946. He also appeared as the heavy in several Mr. Moto movies.
        His more than 100 films included "Little Women," "Peyton Place," "The Absent-Minded Professor," "On a Clear Day You Can See Forever" and "Tora! Tora! Tora!" His last appearacne in a film was in 1986, in "Peggy Sue Gets Married," in which he played the Kathleen Turner character's grandfather.
        He also played Gordon Kirkwood, the neighbor, on the television series "Mr. Ed" in the 1960's. Union Created in 1933
        Mr. Ames was the last surviving member of the group of 19 actors who in June 1933 convened secretly to create an actors union, the Screen Actors Guild. He served on its board of directors for only a few months before returning to acting full time, but in 1945 he rejoined the board, replacing Charles Boyer. Mr. Ames served on the board for the next 30 years, as the recording secretary, a first vice president and, in 1957, as the national president. On retiring from the board in 1979, he was named a president emeritus.
        He also served on the board of governors of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and as a trustee of the Motion Picture and Television Fund.
        Mr. Ames is survived by his wife, Christine; a son, Leon Jr.; a daughter, Shelley, and two grandchildren.
      