
        George W. Beiswanger, a dance critic, esthetician and philosophy professor who explored the relationships between dance and the other arts, died on Wednesday in the DeKalb Medical Center of Decatur, Ga. He was 91 and lived in Atlanta.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Gordon Hamrick, his lawyer and friend.
        As an editor of the magazine Theater Arts and as a writer for newspapers, magazines and scholarly journals, Mr. Beiswanger commented on American dance from the 1930's to the 70's in a prose that was both erudite and lively.
        Although he wrote sympathetically about such ballet choreographers as George Balanchine and Antony Tudor, he was especially interested in modern dance, and he supported the innovations of Merce Cunningham and Alwin Nikolais. He was always able to place new choreographic developments into a broad philosophical context and to analyze them in terms of parallel trends in painting, music and theater.  A Philosophy Professor
        A native of Baltimore, Mr. Beiswanger received a Ph.D. from the State University of Iowa in 1928. He also studied at the Hamma Divinity School in Springfield, Ohio. Before completing his doctorate, he taught philosophy at Wittenberg College in Springfield; later, from 1928-35, he was an associate professor of philosophy at Ohio Wesleyan University. It was there that he met the dance teacher Barbara Page, who became his second wife; a first marriage had ended in divorce.
        Mr. Beiswanger published his first essay on dance, "Music for the Modern Dance," in the March 1934 issue of Theater Arts. In 1939, after he and his wife taught at Monticello College in Alton, Ill., they moved to New York, where Mr. Beiswanger became associate editor of Theater Arts. He also wrote criticism for the magazine Dance Observer.
        A love of scholarship led him to leave Theater Arts in 1944 to head the departments of arts, philosophy and religion at Georgia State College for Women in Milledgeville. In 1963 he became professor of philosophy at Georgia State University in Atlanta; he retired in 1969.
        Over the years, he contributed to such publications as Dance Magazine, Dance News, The Saturday Review, Dance Perspectives and The Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism. He led sessions on dance esthetics at the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies in 1964, was dance critic for the Atlanta Journal from 1966-72, frequently taught at the annual American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., and served on the Georgia Commission on the Arts and the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts.
        He is survived by a son from his first marriage, the poet George Starbuck of Tuscaloosa, Ala.
      