
        Paul C. Clifford, a professor of mathematics and a pioneer in the use of statistical equations for industrial quality control, died Wednesday at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Clifford was a professor of mathematics for 41 years at Montclair State College, where he was chairman of the mathematics department for several years. Application of Statistics
        But he was best known for his application of statistics to manufacturing, which he began to advocate during World War II when he worked for the Wright Aeronautical Company in Paterson, N.J. His methods were used as a way to reduce the number of flaws in airplane parts and make their production more efficient.
        In 1952, he took a leave from Montclair State College and, at the request of the United Nations, traveled to India, teaching industries there how to use statistical controls. From 1954 to 1955, he taught the same methods in France for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which was formed under the Marshall Plan. He also worked for the U.N. and for the United States Agency for International Development in Spain, Mexico and Peru. Taught on Television
        Throughout his career, he was employed as a consultant by several automakers and lectured on quality control with W. Edwards Deming, the noted management theorist. In 1965, the American Society for Quality Control presented Mr. Clifford with its highest award.
        From 1961 to 1962, he also taught college-level math on Sunday mornings on the NBC-TV series, "Continental Classroom."
        Mr. Clifford was born in Bismark, N.D., and was educated at Columbia University, where he received a bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics.
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Katherine Corbett; two daughters, Joanne and Catherine of Manhattan; five sons, Denis of Berkeley, Calif., Steven of Seattle, Gregory and Douglas of Manhattan and Justin of Santa Monica, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      