
        Nicholas M. Kisburg, a longtime lobbyist for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters in New York and a sharp critic of the city's welfare system in the late 1960's and the 1970's, died on Monday at a nursing home in Penobscot, Maine. He was 78 and had lived in Blue Hill, Me., since retiring in 1979.
        He died in his sleep due to complications from emphysema, said his wife, Anne.
        Mr. Kisburg, who never attended college, was a self-taught economist and statistician who used his post as legislative director of Teamsters Joint Council 16 in New York for nearly two decades as a platform to advocate economic and political change in the city and the state.
        A rough-hewn, acerbic speaker, he was frequently at odds with Mayor John V. Lindsay's administration over what he said was an unfair crackdown on welfare recipients after years of lax enforcement of eligibility rules.
        For several years, Mr. Kisburg compiled statistical studies of the changes in the welfare rolls and advocated methods to ease the city's burden, such as longer jail sentences for fathers who abandoned their families and more effective drug treatment programs.
        In 1969, he was appointed to an unpaid post as a consultant to City Council President Francis X. Smith on antipoverty and welfare matters.
        He did not limit his concerns to welfare. He was also a frequent critic of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics and was consulted by political leaders on issues ranging from higher education to law enforcement.
        In 1977, he became embroiled in a feud with Gov. Hugh L. Carey after he said Mr. Carey was largely to blame for the state's remaining in a recession, because he was a "part-time Governor" who spent too much time at P. J. Clarke's bar in Manhattan and other nightspots. The Governor denied that he was neglecting his duties, but said he would stop socializing in public. Mr. Kisburg later apologized for the tone of his remarks.
        Mr. Kisburg was born in Brooklyn and started his career as a longshoreman in Manhattan before going to work for the International Jewelry Workers' Union Local 8 in 1958. The union merged with Teamsters Local 210 in the early 1960's and Mr. Kisburg did statistical research for the local from 1959 to 1961, when he joined the Teamsters Joint Council 16, which had more than 150,000 members.
        While working for the Teamsters, he also taught economics part time as an adjunct assistant professor at Fordham University.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne, and by a sister, Jocelyn Vince of Queens.
      