
        Lucia Popp, a lyric soprano who sang with a silken clarity that made her a favorite in Mozart and Strauss roles, died yesterday in Munich, Germany. She was 54 and lived in Zurich.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said Mariedi Anders, her manager.
        An elegant, flexible interpreter whose voice had a light, transparent texture, Miss Popp brought emotional depth and perspective to a wide variety of roles. Early in her career, her accurate, silvery coloratura made her an ideal Queen of the Night in Mozart's "Magic Flute." Later, as her voice matured and grew more rounded, she made an affecting Pamina in the same work.
        She sang all the major soprano roles in a Mozart cycle staged by Jean-Pierre Ponnelle in Cologne in the 1970's, and recorded many of them. She was also exceptional as both Sophie and the Marschallin in Strauss's "Rosenkavalier." But although Mozart and Strauss were specialties, Miss Popp's repertory also included everything from Handel oratorios and Mahler symphonies to Janacek, Puccini and Wagner operas. She was also an incomparably communicative recitalist. Her last performances were recitals in Vienna, Dresden and Frankfurt in late September and early October. Austrian Honors
        Miss Popp was born in Uhorska Ves, Czechoslovakia, on Nov. 12, 1939. She studied at Bratislava Academy and made her professional debut in 1963 as the Queen of the Night at the National Theater in Bratislava. The same year she made her debut as Barbarina in Mozart's "Marriage of Figaro" at the Vienna State Opera, and remained a mainstay of that company's roster for the rest of her life. She was honored several times by the Austrian Government (she held an Austrian passport), which gave her the title Kammersangerin.
        Also in 1963, Miss Popp made her first appearance at the Salzburg Festival, and made her first important recording, a "Magic Flute" conducted by Otto Klemperer. A debut at Covent Garden followed in 1966, and in 1967 she made her Metropolitan Opera debut as the Queen of the Night. Her other Met roles include Sophie and Pamina.
        Miss Popp made more than 75 recordings. Among those available on compact disk are Mozart's "Clemenza di Tito" (Philips Records), "The Magic Flute" (Angel); Beethoven's "Fidelio" (Deutsche Grammophon); Janacek's "Cunning Little Vixen" and "Jenufa" (both on London); Donizetti's "Elisir d'Amore" (RCA); two recordings of Johann Strauss Jr.'s "Fledermaus" (Angel and Deutsche Grammophon), and Strauss's "Rosenkavalier" (Sony Classical), "Daphne," "Intermezzo" and "Four Last Songs" (Angel).
        She is survived by her husband, the tenor Peter Sieffert, and her father.
      