
        In the studio where he made his movies and his name, Federico Fellini lay in cinematographic state today, the lights soft, the music no more than a whisper, the tenderness of the thousands who filed by his burnished coffin mingling with the ghosts of his creations.
        For many Italians, Fellini, who died on Sunday at the age of 73, was far more than the man who gave the world "La Strada," "La Dolce Vita" and "8 1/2." What he gave Italy, people said today, was the sum of their dreams and fantasies and sins, encased in an artistry that helped define the nation's self-image, at home and abroad.
        "After all the wars and invasions, Italians developed a lot of imagination, and he was the emblem of our fantasy," said Alberto Tenerelli, a retired official who came to the Cinecitta studios today to pay his last respects to the director. "He showed the world that Italy is not just macaroni and mandolins."
        "For me it was magic," said Nicoletta Orlandi, an 18-year-old high-school student from Grossetto, who had stayed out of school to be there. "We are exactly as Fellini represented us, with all our faults and virtues." 'Intervista' Backdrop
        Perhaps that sense of a remarkable national loss was what persuaded so many to skip class, detour on the way to work or just take time out to join the throng at Cinecitta's cavernous Studio No. 5, where Fellini made many of his movies and where, today, his body lay guarded by uniformed carabinieri against the blue-sky backdrop from his 1987 film "Intervista."
        By midday, at least 10,000 people had paid their last respects. The numbers reflect the adulation that has poured forth since his death, a moment that, for some, sounded a final note in the decline of Italy's cinematic history.
        Even the Cinecitta studios where Fellini once worked are now used mainly to make television specials, soap operas and commercials. And even he, with his last movies receiving mixed reviews, might have seemed part of that decline. He had not made a movie in more than three years.
        For many, even the high-school student from Grossetto, it was the heyday of Fellini in the 1960's and 70's that drew them back for one last look. Since Sunday, the press has paid him homage in a manner that might elsewhere be reserved for presidents and monarchs. What they all seemed to say in one way or another was that Fellini stood for Italy before the fall. 'Second Renaissance'
        "Fellini was one of those extraordinary artists who created our second renaissance: the great Italian cinema of the postwar era," said the screenwriter and author Tonino Guerra in a typically fulsome tribute. "And it was for this reason that the world began to see Italy with sympathy and attention."
        Fellini's movies and characters have entered Italy's mythology in many ways. In "La Dolce Vita," the hungry photographer of celebrities is called Paparazzo. Hungry photographers of celebrity have been called paparazzi ever since. And they were in attendance today, pursuing the glitterati of the Italian cinema world who had come to see or be seen.
        But it was perhaps a sign of the way things and people change that when Marcello Mastroianni arrived at the studio and was surrounded by reporters and photographers, he angrily told them: "This is not the time or place to ask questions. You only think about your stupid pictures. Try to be more respectful, at least in this situation."
        Also in the crowd was Gabriele Paolini, a painter and passionate cinema buff, who had brought with him a homemade movie-maker's clapper-board to lay beside the coffin. The police, he explained, had not permitted him to do so, and so he wandered off in the drizzle with his offering at his side.
        It read: "Fellini. The last take."
      