
        Franklin Benjamin Lincoln Jr., a lawyer who represented President-elect Richard M. Nixon in dealings with the staff of President Lyndon B. Johnson during the transition in 1968, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Short Hills.
        He had a short illness, his family said.
        Mr. Lincoln had a reputation for being able to work well with other people. That quality suited him well for the role he played after Mr. Nixon defeated Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in the 1968 election.
        Mr. Lincoln, a Republican, and Mr. Nixon first met when Mr. Nixon was Vice President; Mr. Lincoln had prepared President Dwight D. Eisenhower's last military budget as the Assistant Secretary of Defense in charge of Pentagon finances. Later, Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Nixon came to work closely together as law partners in the New York firm of Nixon, Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander & Mitchell. Native of Brooklyn
        Mr. Lincoln joined what is now Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander & Ferdon as a senior partner in 1966. He formally retired seven years ago but remained of counsel.
        He was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Colgate University summa cum laude and from Columbia University Law School. Admitted to the bar in 1934, he joined the firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. With two other partners he founded Lundgren, Lincoln & McDaniel in 1941 and remained with the firm until 1959.
        In World War II he served as a naval officer and then as a civilian counsel in the Navy Department. He resigned from his firm when President Eisenhower named him an Assistant Secretary of Defense in 1959.
        Between that assignment and Mudge, Rose, he was a vice president of Litton Industries and president of Monroe Calculating Machine Company, a division of Litton. For two years he was also a partner in Seward & Kissel.
        He served as a trustee of Colgate University from 1967 to 1975 and then as board chairman until 1979.
        Mr. Lincoln is survived by his wife of 55 years, Helen Benz Lincoln; a daughter, Carol Ann Concors of Wilmington, Del.; a son, Franklin B. 3d, of West Daldwell, N.J.; a brother, Donald O., of Bethesda, Md., and four grandchildren.
      