
        William J. Trent Jr., the executive director of the United Negro College Fund for 20 years after its inception in 1944, died on Saturday in Moses Cone Hospital in Greensboro, N.C. He was 83 and had lived in Greensboro since 1975.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Judy Scales-Trent. She said her father had been in declining health for years and had recently suffered from kidney trouble, pneumonia and other ailments.
        In his years as the executive director of the fund, with offices in midtown Manhattan, Mr. Trent oversaw the raising of about $78 million, which he said in 1964 had helped to make "strong citadels of learning, carriers of the American dream, seedbeds of social evolution and revolution." At that time, 32 colleges in 11 Southern states were sharing the fund's income.
        In 1961, when the fund was raising about $2 million a year to strengthen the best private black colleges, Mr. Trent said: "Our job is to find enough money to make these institutions good colleges in the mainstream of American education. The country will need good colleges, and none of the Negro colleges have any race restrictions any longer." 'Full, Frank Discussion'
        In 1956, he said that all the fund's member colleges were legally open to any qualified applicant, regardless of race. He said that the member colleges could help meet "the heightened sensitivity over the desegregation issue" in the South and elsewhere by developing leaders to cope with the problem and tensions, and that by serving as "islands of democratic participation, both white and Negro citizens can come together in full, frank discussion." By then, all the fund's member colleges had interracial faculties.
        Over the years, Mr. Trent served variously as president of the board of St. Luke's Hospital in New York and as treasurer of the National Urban League, where he was a longtime board member.
        William Johnson Trent Jr. was born in Asheville, N.C., and grew up in Atlanta, where family members said he graduated from a private black high school. He earned a bachelor's degree in 1930 from Livingstone College in Salisbury, N.C., while his father was president of the college. Taught Economics
        The younger Mr. Trent went on to earn a master's degree in business administration at the University of Pennsylvania and did graduate work in economics at the University of Chicago.
        He then taught economics at Livingstone College for two years and later taught economics at Bennett College in Greensboro, where he was also acting dean of education. At the time, all the students at both colleges were black, Ms. Scales-Trent said.
        From 1938 to 1944, he held Government posts in Washington during the Administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, first as an official of the Department of the Interior with the title of Adviser on Negro Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior, Harold L. Ickes, and then as race relations officer in the Federal Works Agency.
        In 1964, Mr. Trent became assistant personnel director of Time Inc., which publishes Time and Life magazines. In that position he was concerned largely with race relations and minority issues. He retired from the company in 1975, when he was 65. While he worked in New York, he lived in Manhattan and in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        In later years, while living in Greensboro, he worked in the Bennett College development office and was on the boards of Livingstone College and of Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, N.C.
        At various times he also served on the boards of New York Community Trust, National Council on Philanthropy, National Foundation for the Improvement of Education, College Placement Services, Experiment in International Living and Paine College in Augusta, Ga.
        In addition to Ms. Scales-Trent of Buffalo, Mr. Trent is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Viola Scales; two other daughters, Kay Trent Holloway of Potomac, Md., and Toni Trent Parker of Stamford, Conn., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      