
        Marvin Feldman, who was president of the Fashion Institute of Technology for 21 years during which its enrollment and academic scope increased dramatically, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 66 and had lived in retirement in Newport, R.I.
        The cause of death was cancer, said Loretta Lawrence Keane, the school's director of college relations.
        Mr. Feldman headed the institute from 1971 until his retirement last year and was the longest-serving president of the school, which is in Manhattan's garment district. During his tenure the college's enrollment rose to 12,000 from 5,000, the selection of courses went up greatly and the number of buildings went to eight from two.
        The major fields of study now include interior design, museum studies, fashion design, toy design and photography.
        Under his direction, the institute, which is affiliated with the State University of New York system, began awarding bachelor's and master's degrees, as well as the associate degree. Advocate of Aid Programs
        F.I.T. also set up the Advanced Apparel Manufacturing Technology Demonstration Facility, which includes a large collection of computer-driven equipment, and, in 1983, a Small Business Center that provides services and support for entrepreneurs.
        Two months ago the school renamed its Administration and Technology Center the Marvin Feldman Center.
        "Marvin Feldman's vitality and wisdom were the primary reasons behind the success of F.I.T.," said Peter G. Scotese, the chairman of the school's board of trustees.
        Over the years Mr. Feldman was a vocal advocate for Federal aid for programs that would help both vocational training and small business.
        Early in his career Mr. Feldman was a secondary school educator and administrator in California, and from 1964 to 1969 he was an officer of the Ford Foundation's Division of International Education and Research. He served in a variety of capacities in Washington in the Office of Education and the Office of Economic Opportunity.
        Before his retirement, Mr. Feldman had been a longtime resident of Montclair, N.J. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Feldman of Newport, and two sons, Brian and Michael.
      