
        Dr. Walter L. Palmer, an authority on gastrointestinal cancer, died on Thursday at the Bernard Mitchell Hospital in Chicago. He was 97 and lived in Hyde Park near the campus of the University of Chicago.
        The cause was complications after a fall, said a spokesman at the University of Chicago Medical Center, where Dr. Palmer was the Richard T. Crane Professor Emeritus.
        An internist, scientist and teacher, Dr. Palmer was one of the original eight faculty members when the university opened its medical school in 1927. He was an early practitioner of gastroenterology, shedding new light on the diagnosis and treatment of digestive diseases like peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal cancers and ulcerating colitis.
        "When Walter began to practice, gastroenterology was an art -- speculative, impressionistic, anecdotal, almost mythical at times," said Dr. Joseph B. Kisner, who succeeded him as chief of gastroenterology at the medical center. "It wasn't looked upon as a respectable specialty, or as a specialty at all."  Brought Radical Change
        Dr. Kisner said Dr. Palmer pioneered, in the 1920's, what became the standards of more recent decades. His early research into the causes of peptic ulcers, for instance, disclosed that acid secretions and not gastric contractions caused the pain of ulcers. The discovery changed the way the ulcers were treated.
        Dr. Palmer, born in Evanston, Ill., was raised in Colorado and accompanied his father, a country doctor, on his rounds by horse and buggy. He later attributed his specialization to stomach aches that began to plague him in his teens.
        Dr. Palmer earned his degrees at the University of Chicago and Rush Medical College, with additional studies in Berlin and Vienna. After being appointed assistant professor at the University of Chicago School of Medicine in 1927, he organized one of the first full-time academic gastroenterology sections in the country. He retired in 1962 but continued to see patients until eight years ago.
        Dr. Palmer, the author of more than 400 papers, was a past president of the American College of Physicians, chairman of the American Board of Internal Medicine and a recipient of many honors. The University of Chicago, helped by patients and friends, established a Walter L. Palmer Fund for a visiting lectureship, and a Walter L. Palmer Distinguished Service Professorship.
        Dr. Palmer's wife of 55 years, Elisabeth Ricketts Palmer, died in 1981. He is survived by two sons, Dr. Robert, of Ardmore, Pa., and Dr. Henry, of Chicago; a daughter, Elisabeth Eldrige of Toronto, and eight grandchildren.
      