
        Dr. Israel Zwerling, an early advocate of community-based outpatient care for the mentally ill, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 76 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The hospital said the cause was cancer.
        Dr. Zwerling was a former chairman of the department of mental health sciences at the Hahnemann School of Medicine in Philadelphia.
        In the early 1960's, he was director of the division of social and community psychiatry at the Albert Einstein School of Medicine at Yeshiva University in New York and director of the state's Bronx Psychiatric Center. Creating New Atmosphere
        In both New York positions, he was a leader in the movement to shift psychiatric care from state hospitals to community-based mental health centers, a shift advocated by President John F. Kennedy in 1962.
        At the Bronx center, Dr. Zwerling established a policy under which patients were free to walk about or leave at any time through unlocked doors..  The idea was to create an atmosphere free of restraint or coercion.
        Dr. Arthur Meyerson, chairman of Hahnemann's department of mental health sciences, said Dr. Zwerling "was the first to demonstrate the efficacy of day treatment as an alternative to hospitalization for seriously mentally ill persons."
        Dr. Zwerling was a founding member of the American Family Therapy Association and received its award for "distinguished contribution" in 1983. He also received the Strecker Award, one of psychiatry's major research citations.
        Dr. Zwerling was born in New York City. He graduated from City College and received a doctorate in psychology from Columbia University and a medical degree from the Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
        He joined the faculty at Hahnemann in 1973, eventually becoming vice president for academic affairs and dean of the School of Medicine in 1985. He retired in 1988.
        He is survived by his wife, Florence; a daughter, Sara Silverman; a son, Matthew Zwerling; two sisters, Thelma and Ruth, and three grandchildren.
      