
        Emile Ardolino, an Oscar-winning maker of dance documentaries who went on to become a Hollywood director of films including "Dirty Dancing" and "Sister Act," died on Saturday morning at his home in Los Angeles. He was 50.
        The cause was AIDS, said Cindy Gilmore, a longtime colleague and co-producer at Ardolino Productions.
        Mr. Ardolino, whose new film of George Balanchine's "Nutcracker" is to be released on Wednesday, was considered a dance-film maker of exceptional sensitivity. He had an eye and an imagination that seemed to understand intuitively how to lend the immediacy of film to an art that often requires the distance and framing of a stage. When watching dance on television, "you can be in five seats at the same time -- every time you change an angle," he said in 1982. Mr. Ardolino always managed to convert the most hardened film crew members; by the end of work on his dance films, they would be blithely conferring with him about arabesques, chaine turns and pirouettes.
        "I do love dance," he said in a 1987 interview with The New York Times about "Dirty Dancing," his first major Hollywood film. "I do love music. It was a script in which the dance was used to move the plot along, to reveal character, and the story didn't stop; in addition to which, I saw a subtext of body language throughout. So I related to all that immediately."
        A director known for his soft-spoken though firm way with actors, Mr. Ardolino was also something of a humanist. "I am interested in scripts about character, mainly, whether it's a comedy, a romance or a drama," he said. "I like audiences to feel something when they come out. I don't want them to come out numb. I really want them to feel and to think, mostly feel."
        Mr. Ardolino, who was born in Maspeth, Queens, developed an intense love for Broadway shows in adolescence and said he spent all his money on tickets, sneaking in for second acts when he couldn't afford admission. He saw the original production of "Gypsy" 25 times, he told friends. Mr. Ardolino appeared in many theater productions as a student at Queens College. He studied dance with Matt Mattox and had a few acting jobs, including the role of the Boy in a road company of "The Fantasticks." 'Dance in America'
        He founded Compton-Ardolino Films with Gardner Compton in 1967, working as an editor, a director and a producer of documentaries, industrial films and multi-media stage productions through 1974. He won an Obie Award in 1969 for his films for the original Broadway production of "Oh! Calcutta!" and created films for the Joffrey Ballet's "Astarte" and the New York City Opera's "Makropoulos Affair." He also designed the original multi-media concept for the Broadway production of "Jesus Christ Superstar."
        Mr. Ardolino edited several documentaries for PBS and produced dance films commissioned by the Dance Collection of the New York Public Library for its Jerome Robbins Film Archive. In 1975, he and Merrill Brockway were named as producers of "Dance in America," a television series devoted to American dance and broadcast on Channel 13 in New York. It was to play an important role in making dance popular in America.
        Over the next decade, Mr. Ardolino directed and produced 28 programs for the series. He won an Emmy Award for his directing of "Choreography by Balanchine IV" in the 1978-79 season and a Directors Guild of America Award for "The Spellbound Child" in the 1980-81 season. Mr. Ardolino left the series in 1983, although he continued to create individual programs for it.
        It was Jacques d'Amboise, a principal dancer with the City Ballet, who set Mr. Ardolino on his Hollywood career with an invitation to direct "He Makes Me Feel Like Dancin'." An account of Mr. d'Amboise's work with children, which won Mr. Ardolino the 1983 Academy Award for best documentary feature, two Emmys, a Peabody Award and other honors.
        Three years later, "Dirty Dancing" made Mr. Ardolino a new director to be reckoned with in Hollywood. The story of an innocent young girl and a street-smart dance teacher at a Catskill hotel in the early 1960's, "Dirty Dancing" was a low-budget movie that had a huge success at the box office. It made Patrick Swayze a star and also featured Jennifer Grey.
        Mr. Ardolino went on to make "Chances Are" in 1988, "Three Men and a Little Lady" in 1990, and "Sister Act," starring Whoopi Goldberg, in 1992. He also directed television productions of three shows produced by Joseph Papp: David Henry Hwang's play "The Dance and the Railroad," Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream," starring William Hurt, and "Alice at the Palace," starring Meryl Streep. At his death, he had just finished directing a television production of "Gypsy," starring Bette Midler, to be broadcast in December on CBS.
        Mr. Ardolino is survived by his companion, Luis M. Rodriguez-Dilla of Los Angeles, and three sisters, Aurelia Janosek of Jackson Heights, Queens, Livia Meyer of Parlin, N.J., and Dorothy Boland of Elmhurst, Queens.
        Correction:  November 24, 1993, Wednesday
        An obituary on Monday about the film director Emile Ardolino misspelled the name of his companion. It is Luis Miguel Rodriguez-Villa.
      