
        Robert Black, a conductor, composer and pianist who was best known for his work with the New York New Music Ensemble, Speculum Musicae and other contemporary-music groups, died on Sunday at an apartment he was renting in Palo Alto, Calif., where he was being treated for cancer. He was 43 and lived in Manhattan.
        Sandra Elm, Mr. Black's manager, said the cause was melanoma.
        Since the mid-1970's, when he was a student at the Juilliard School, Mr. Black had been a fixture of the new-music world in New York City. He founded the New York New Music Ensemble in 1975 and the Prism chamber orchestra in 1983, and was a member of Speculum Musicae from 1978.
        Mr. Black gave the premieres of hundreds of works. Among them were Ralph Shapey's "Three for Six," Joseph Schwantner's "Music of Amber," Dane Rudhyar's "Epic Poem" and works by Elliott Carter, Jacob Druckman, Jean Barraque and Harrison Birtwistle. He also recorded new music prolifically. His discography includes widely praised accounts of "In Sleep, in Thunder," by Mr. Carter, and "Nature's Breath," by Tod Machover, (both on Bridge Records), as well as Miriam Gideon's "Five Sonnets From Shakespeare," Stephen Dembski's "Spectra" and Louise Talma's "Full Circle" (on CRI Records), and Charles Wuorinen's "New York Notes" (on GM Recordings).  At Oberlin and Juilliard
        Mr. Black was born in Dallas on April 28, 1950, and studied at Oberlin College and the Juilliard School, where his teachers included the pianist Beveridge Webster and the composers Roger Sessions and David Diamond. He returned to Oberlin to teach in 1975, and also taught at Stanford, C. W. Post, Princeton and the University of California at Santa Barbara.
        Early in his career, Mr. Black split his energies between contemporary music and standard repertory, and his early recording of works by Liszt (on Orion Records) was nominated by the Franz Liszt Academy in Budapest for a Grand Prix du Disque.
        In recent years, he focused increasingly on the standard orchestral repertory as well. As music director of the New Amsterdam Symphony from 1987 to 1993, he led a Mahler cycle and conducted Mozart concertos from the keyboard. He also conducted a performance of the Beethoven Ninth Symphony at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. Last year he was appointed artistic director of the Kuopio Orchestra in Finland.
        He is survived by his wife, Georgia Gaviotis; his parents, Gladys Kathleen Verrill and Frank Black of Dallas; a sister, Beverlie Whiteley of Dallas, and a brother, William Black of Manhttan, a concert pianist.
      