
        Robert F. Wagner Jr., the sage and gentle 49-year-old scion of a family that defined New York politics for three generations, died suddenly yesterday in a hotel room in Texas, where he was researching a book on urban America.
        Friends said he complained of flulike symptoms while flying to San Antonio on Saturday and skipped a planned tour of a public-housing project there yesterday. After he failed to respond to messages, he was found in his room at the Embassy Suites hotel at about 5:45 P.M. by Thomas Vitullo-Martin, the husband of Julia Vitullo-Martin, his collaborator on the book "The Future of Cities."
        The San Antonio Medical Examiner's office said that Mr. Wagner had apparently died of natural causes, but said that the precise cause would not be known at least until an autopsy today. The police said there was no evidence of foul play.
        Last month Mr. Wagner bolted the Democratic Party for only the second time in his public life -- the first was to support a judge -- and inserted an unexpected endorsement of Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal mayoral challenger, into an oration on the history of the Liberal Party.
        Since the election, Mr. Wagner had been serving as senior policy adviser to the Mayor-elect -- a role he had performed publicly and privately for New York mayors and governors for two decades -- and was prepared to return to government either as a deputy mayor or in the job he had enjoyed most, as chairman of the City Planning Commission.
        His sudden death left friends and colleagues shocked. "We were having a good time on the plane ride down there Saturday, joking about the Notre Dame game, but he said he wasn't feeling 100 percent," said Mrs. Vitullo-Martin. "After we arrived, he started to look worse. He said he definitely didn't want to go out for Texas barbecue."
        Mr. Wagner remained in his hotel room on Sunday and seemed worse when Mr. Vitullo-Martin visited him that evening to bring him a thermometer. He did not want to call a doctor, Mrs. Vitullo-Martin said.
        Mr. Wagner had suffered a severe bout with pneumonia two years ago. A close family friend said that Mr. Wagner had been taking Prozac, an antidepressant. Empty bottles of cola, which he may have been drinking to settle his stomach, were found in the hotel room. Groomed for a Political Career
        Mr. Wagner, the son of a three-term New York City Mayor and the grandson of a United States Senator, had been groomed for a political career even before he grew up in Gracie Mansion, the mayor's official residence. But he was shy and uncomfortable with self-promotion and held only one elective office himself, as a City Councilman elected at-large from Manhattan.
        Yet slow to anger or to form a conclusion, seemingly so vulnerable that even critics felt protective, Mr. Wagner left a remarkable imprint on government. He served in a succession of appointive posts under Mayor Edward I. Koch as Deputy Mayor for Policy, chairman of the City Planning Commission, president of the Health and Hospitals Corporation and as president of the Board of Education, where he welded a seven-member board appointed by six officials into cohesive consensus.
        Mr. Koch's choice of Mr. Wagner as Schools Chancellor in 1983 was rejected by the state Education Commissioner, who said Mr. Wagner lacked the necessary educational requirements and did not have enough administrative experience to warrant a waiver.
        Many of Mr. Wagner's contributions to politics and public policy were made more privately, though, as a scholar and as an adviser, sounding board and friend to countless officials in the city, state and Federal governments whose demands and requests he never refused. At his death, he was also chairman of Citizens Union, the century-old civic group.
        His endorsement of Mr. Giuliani came with a typical lack of showmanship, slipped into what was expected to be a routine speech to the annual dinner of the Liberal Party, with which he and his father had been closely associated.
        "I'm a Democrat and very proud of that, but more than that I'm a New Yorker and I believe that the stakes in this election are incredibly important," Mr. Wagner said, after consulting with students in his urban planning seminar at Columbia University that afternoon but without notifying Mr. Giuliani in advance. "Over the last year I've gotten to know Rudy Giuliani and realize he's a very different person than the one who comes across in the news columns and sometimes on television. He's not cold or mean."
        Later, he taped a television advertisement in which his straining to justify his defection made it seem all the more genuine.
        At his death, Mr. Wagner was vice chairman of LH Research, a polling firm that he and Louis Harris founded last year, was writing the book for the Twentieth Century Fund, and was Mr. Giuliani's senior policy adviser.
        He said recently that the only job he might want in local government was to return as chairman of the City Planning Commission, a post in which he balanced his skills as a negotiator to achieve consensus and as a strategist to articulate a vision for his city that extended well beyond the term of any administration he might be serving. It was also a position his father had held.
        Earlier, he had also expressed interest in joining the Clinton Administration, perhaps as an associate of his friend Donna E. Shalala, the Health and Human Services Secretary, or in another policy role in which his unique perspective on urban America could be tapped. 'A Son of New York'
        "Bobby Wagner was a son of New York," Mayor-elect Giuliani said last night. "He possessed vast knowledge of the city's history and exceptional vision for the city's future," Mr. Giuliani added, characterizing Mr. Wagner as "a leader of persistent civility, courage and care."
        Mayor Dinkins said: "The city has lost one of its most distinguished public servants. It has lost one of its devoted citizens. His contribution to our city will be greatly missed."
        Henry Stern, the former Parks Commissioner, who served with Mr. Wagner in the City Council, described him as "the outstanding public servant of his generation: brilliant but kindly, gentle yet forceful.
        "Bob, in city government and with his friends, showed reason, fairness and concern for others rather than himself," Mr. Stern said, describing Mr. Wagner as "the closest friend of many people and that was just one of his gifts."
        "No one in public life was better liked than Bob Wagner," Mr. Stern said.
        He recalled Mr. Koch's lament that "Bobby and I do the same things, but why do they just pick on me?"
        His stepmother, Phyllis Cerf Wagner, said, "He was an uncomplaining person."
        Louis Harris said of Mr. Wagner: "He had an intellect rarely found and yet combined it with a deep sense of humanity and decency. He cared about his fellow human beings, yet had a mental discipline which cut through much of the ordinary cant and rhetoric all too often found in politics."
        Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said Mr. Wagner "carried on a family tradition of service for which we are all indebted."
        Born on Jan. 6, 1944, the son of Mayor Wagner and his first wife, Susan, Robert Ferdinand Wagner 3d, as he was originally known, wavered between journalism and politics as a career. He had written editorials for The Harvard Crimson and later worked at The New York Post. But public life staked its claim on him early.
        And it often left him lonely despite an unending calls for counsel. Richard Ravitch, a friend who was chairman of the city's Charter Revision Commission, said Mr. Wagner possessed an "extraordinarily creative mind about public policy" but that "he obviously suffered from a lot of things for a long time, and it's a tragedy that he couldn't have led a longer and happier life."
        He was 9 years old when his father was elected Mayor, and his first official act, two years earlier, was to help his father at a ribbon-cutting to open the tunnel under Battery Park in lower Manhattan.
        Educated at the Buckley School in Manhattan and at Phillips Exeter Academy, he graduated from Harvard University in 1965, attended the University of Sussex in Britain, and earned a master's degree in public administration from Princeton University.
        Years later, considering a race for the State Senate, he was catapulted into the spotlight again as chairman of a contrivance called the Citizens Committee to Repeal the Hot Dog Tax, and dutifully, if self-consciously, delivered to Albany more than a million petition signatures protesting the extension of the sales tax to restaurant meals under $1. The tax was not repealed, but the publicity helped elect Mr. Wagner a Democratic councilman-at-large from Manhattan in 1973.
        In 1977, he barely lost the Democratic primary for Manhattan borough president, a post once held by his father, in a race against Andrew J. Stein, the son of another wealthy New Yorker, Jerry Finkelstein. Trailing them in the primary was David N. Dinkins.
        "If he hadn't lost for borough president," Mr. Harris said last night, "he might well have run for the Senate."
        After Mr. Koch won in 1977, Mr. Wagner was named to one challenging job after another, as if confronting a series of biblical tests, but maintained that he had no interest in becoming mayor himself.
        "Being mayor is not a job I've ever been interested in," he said. "After all, I've already lived in Gracie Mansion for 12 years."
        Mr. Wagner, who never married, is survived by his younger brother, Duncan, his stepmother and two stepbrothers. A funeral will be held at St. Patrick's Cathedral at a date to be announced.
      