
        Anthony Burgess, the prolific British novelist, composer, librettist, essayist, semanticist, translator and critic, whose best-known novel, "A Clockwork Orange," offered a bleak vision of a violence-ridden future, died yesterday in London Hospital. He was 76 and lived in Monaco and Lugano, Switzerland.
        The cause of death was cancer, said a spokeswoman for Hutchinson, his publisher, adding that he had been ill for some time.
        Mr. Burgess's versatility and erudition found expression in more than 50 books and dozens of musical compositions, from operas, choral works and song cycles to symphonies and concertos. He also wrote radio and television scripts, as well as countless articles for British, American, French and Italian newspapers and magazines.
        In a 1973 interview in The Paris Review about the art of fiction, he said, "The ideal reader of my novels is a lapsed Catholic and failed musician, short-sighted, color-blind, auditorily biased, who has read the books that I have read."
        "I call myself a professional writer in that I must write in order to eat, and I am not ashamed to belong to the 'Grub Street' confraternity which Dr. Johnson honored," he said. "But primarily I call myself a serious novelist who is attempting to extend the range of subject matter available to fiction, and a practitioner who is anxious to exploit words much as a poet does." Learned From Sterne and Joyce
        Mr. Burgess acknowledged that his masters included Laurence Sterne, James Joyce and Evelyn Waugh. Tracing the origins of his work and beliefs, he said: "I was brought up a Catholic, became an agnostic, flirted with Islam and now hold a position which may be termed Manichee. I believe the wrong God is temporarily ruling the world and that the true God has gone under. Thus I am a pessimist but believe the world has much solace to offer: love, food, music, the immense variety of race and language, literature and the pleasure of artistic creation."
        "A Clockwork Orange" (1962) tells the story of a murderous, Beethoven-loving teen-age gang leader in a complacent and conformist society in the near future. In this welfare state, roving bands of delinquents fight, steal and rape to assert their freedom against the conformity of a clockwork society. The novel is written in a dialect of the author's own invention. Its language, called nadsat, is a mixture of English and American slang, Russian, gypsy talk and odd bits of Jacobean prose.
        The movie version of the novel, directed by Stanley Kubrick in 1971, encountered heavy criticism -- some of its violent scenes were said to have inspired real-life violence by gangs of hoodlums -- and was eventually withdrawn by its producers and distributors. To this day, the movie cannot be legally shown anywhere in Britain, on either film or videocassette. After a High Court ruling last month, however, a television network was able to show clips from the film, which British critics generally found far more violent than the book on which it was based.
        Mr. Burgess once professed surprise about his reputation as a prolific writer of comic novels.
        "One writes in grim earnest," he said, "only to discover that when my work is published that Burgess has done it again, another funny farce. My God, I had to write 'Clockwork Orange' in a state of near drunkenness in order to deal with material that upset me very much." Nonetheless, he conceded, "I think that I'm a comic writer." A Middle-Aged Adolescent
        His humorous novels center on the exploits of a character named F. X. Enderby, a moderately successful lyric poet who is regarded by critics as his alter ego. Although written as entertainments, the Enderby novels examine the role of the artist in contemporary society. The middle-aged Enderby is portrayed as a latent adolescent who can create poetry only in the privacy of his bathroom.
        Mr. Burgess's television scripts include "Moses the Lawgiver" and "Jesus of Nazareth." For the stage, he did translations of "Cyrano de Bergerac," "Oedipus the King" and "Carmen."
        When not writing, he told the Paris Review, his "recreations" included "music composition, piano-playing, cooking and language-learning."
        In "This Man and Music," published in 1984, Mr. Burgess lists 65 of his own compositions, among them "The Blooms of Dublin," an operetta based on James Joyce's "Ulysses"; "Dead March," a symphony; "The Brides of Enderby," for voice and chamber ensemble, and "A Clockwork Orange 2004," a musical stage version of his novel. In the book, he emphasizes the relationship between music and literature, giving as examples his two "quasimusical novels," "M/F" and "Napoleon Symphony."
        Mr. Burgess, who worked in the British Ministry of Education, 1948-50, and as an education officer in Malaya and Brunei, 1954-59, also found time to teach in the United States. He was a visiting fellow at Princeton, 1970-71, and a distinguished professor at the City College of New York, 1972-73. Musical Director in Army
        He was born Feb. 25, 1917, in Manchester, was educated at Bishop Bilsborrow School, a Xaverian college, and was graduated from Manchester University in 1940. That year he joined the British Army Education Corps, in which he served as musical director of a special services unit, entertaining troops in Europe. He was stationed for three years in Gibraltar, which became the setting of his early novel, "A Vision of Battlements" (1965). After the war, he taught in an adult education program for the armed forces and in 1948 he became a lecturer in phonetics at Birmingham University.
        In 1942, Mr. Burgess married Llewela Isherwood Jones, a distant relative of Christopher Isherwood. The brutality depicted in "A Clockwork Orange" stemmed in part, he once said, from an assault on his wife during World War II in London that resulted in the loss of their expected child. She died in 1948. That year, he married Liliana Macellari, 15 years his junior, who was teaching linguistics at Cambridge. He and his new wife -- along with the 4-year-old son they had had during an affair, Andrew -- moved to Malta. Thereafter, the Burgesses lived in Italy and Switzerland.
        Mr. Burgess had intimations of mortality on several occasions during his lifetime. In October 1992, shortly after seeing a dramatized version of "A Clockwork Orange" at the Edinburgh Festival, he underwent a bronchoscopy. A heavy smoker since World War II, he had been coughing blood, and an X-ray showed a dark patch on one of his lungs. He told a journalist for The Independent, London, that he was sure a death sentence had been pronounced.
        It was the second time doctors had warned him of a life-threatening illness. In 1959, he was invalided out of a teaching job in Borneo, diagnosed as having a brain tumor and given a year to live. Wanting to leave his wife with some money, he wrote four novels during what he called his "pseudo-terminal year" of 1960, sold them all, and continued his daily labors as a writer. The erroneous diagnosis, he later said, was more political than medical.
        "I wish people would think of me as a musician who writes novels, instead of as a novelist who writes music on the side," Mr. Burgess wrote in The Economist in 1991. "Music is a purer art because it has no direct relationship to human events. It's totally outside the field of moral judgment. That's why I prize it."
        In the same article, he said that he feared "the coming darkness" and that he seesawed between feelings of self-indulgence and belief. "I don't think there's a heaven, but there's certainly a hell," he wrote. "Everything we've experienced on earth seems to point toward the permanence of pain."
        His wife and son survive. A Lifelong Flow Of Words and Wit
        Anthony Burgess, known for erudition and wit, was a prolific writer, the author, all told, of more than 50 books. These are among the most widely read.
        A Clockwork Orange, 1962
        Honey for the Bears, 1963
        Enderby Outside, 1971
        Moses, 1976
        Earthly Powers, 1980
        The Kingdom of the Wicked, 1985
        Any Old Iron, 1989
        A Dead Man in Deptford, 1993
      