
        Joe B. Frantz, a historian of the American West who was close to President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Saturday at Hermann Hospital in Houston. He was 76 and lived in Houston.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said.
        Professor Frantz, the author or co-author of more than two dozen books, served on the history faculty of the University of Texas at Austin from 1949 until he retired as Walter Prescott Webb Professor Emeritus in 1985. He took a leave as chairman of the history department in 1968 to direct the university's LBJ Oral History Project and be a consultant in history to the Johnson White House.
        The oral history project, now carried on by the Lyndon B. Johnson Library and Museum in Austin, includes taped interviews with hundreds of people who touched Johnson's public life.
        Some critics saw the undertaking as a projection of Johnson's ego, but Professor Frantz saw it as an invaluable resource for future historians. Biographer of a Dairyman
        Professor Frantz, a former head of the Texas Historical Association, won a best-book prize in 1951 from the Texas Institute of Letters for the biography "Gail Borden: Dairyman to a Nation" (University of Oklahoma). He was also the co-author of "The American Cowboy: The Myth and the Reality" (University of Oklahoma, 1955) and "6,000 Miles of Fence: Life on the XIT Ranch of Texas" (University of Texas, 1961).
        He was born in Weatherford, Tex., and was a journalism graduate of the University of Texas, where he also earned his master's and Ph.D. degrees in history. After teaching at the university for nearly four decades, he held the Turnbull Professorship in History at Corpus Christi State University until last summer.
        He continued to lecture at Rice University in Houston, most recently in early October on "Myths That Made Texas."
        Professor Frantz is survived by his wife, Betsy Chadderdon; two daughters, Jolie Flemming of Falls Church, Va., and Lisa Dietz of Austin; a stepdaughter, Liz Chadderdon of Houston, and four grandchildren.
      