
        Dr. Alexander D. Langmuir, a leader in public health who is credited with saving hundreds of thousands of lives through his innovations in controlling epidemics, died on Monday in Baltimore, where he lived. He was 83.
        The cause was kidney cancer, the Department of Health and Human Services said.
        In 1949, Dr. Langmuir created a corps of epidemiologists at what is now the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. The corps was ready to fly anywhere immediately to investigate reports of an epidemic or an unusual cluster of cases. Known as the Epidemic Intelligence Service, the program played a crucial role in turning what was then an obscure and fledgling operation into a large Federal agency.
        From 1949 to 1970, Dr. Langmuir was the disease centers' chief epidemiologist. When he retired, he taught at Harvard Medical School, staying until 1977. Trained 500 Health Workers
        As the Government's chief disease detective, he created the concept of surveillance for infectious diseases. The agency uses it to track dozens of diseases and to analyze patterns to take steps to prevent clusters and outbreaks from becoming epidemics. The agency also responds to requests from state health departments to investigate unusual cases and clusters.
        It is through such investigations that scientists at the disease centers discovered the bacterium that causes Legionnaire's disease, identified toxic shock syndrome, and last week reported isolating and growing the strain of Hantavirus that causes a fatal illness first reported among Navajo Indians in New Mexico this year.
        Dr. Langmuir trained the first 500 of the more than 2,200 doctors, veterinarians, statisticians and other health workers who have graduated from the epidemic intelligence program. Many now teach and conduct research in the country's schools of medicine and public health, and many others work in health departments throughout the country. Some have gone on to establish similar programs in other countries.
        But when Dr. Langmuir formed the Epidemic Intelligence Service, he said the Atlanta agency's activity was limited primarily to malaria. It was "a bouncing, thriving, adolescent, gawky and awkward organization," he said.
        "The information about malaria in the country was abominable," he recalled when he left the disease centers in 1970. Texas was reporting 10,000 cases a year, other states, 5,000. "It was perfectly clear there was gross error in the reporting," Dr. Langmuir said, adding that he was upset that the centers did not challenge the diagnosis of the doctors and state health officials. Relished Jurisdictional Fights
        Dr. Langmuir was a tall man who could command immediate attention when he stood to speak to audiences in his deep voice. He thrived on controversy and often took pride in overcoming local political pressures to crusade for preventive medicine and other measures to safeguard public health.
        He relished jurisdictional and other fights with state and Federal officials and other scientists, including some on his own staff. In creating the E.I.S., Dr. Langmuir said he and officials of the National Institutes of Health "almost went to fisticuffs" as he overcame their opposition.
        Dr. Langmuir taught what he called "shoe leather epidemiology," stressing that investigators go into the field to collect their own data and view directly the locale of the public health problem they were investigating. His graduates wore lapel pins of a shoe with a hole in the sole.
        He paid careful attention to studying the way infectious and communicable agents spread -- through the air, water and food. Dr. Langmuir attributed his success to good communications with other scientists and health officials. He required investigators to write reports immediately and to send copies to all who needed the information.
        Under his leadership, epidemiologists at the disease centers traced a number of cases of paralytic polio to the defective manufacture of a polio vaccine by Cutter Laboratories.
        When the possibility of biological warfare was raised during the Korean War, scientists looked to epidemiology as the first line of defense. But the country was not prepared. Dr. Langmuir seized the opportunity to strengthen disease surveillance and his program. He found many young doctors facing the draft willing to spend two years learning epidemiology in the Public Health Service to fulfill their military service.
        In later years, Dr. Langmuir criticized the disease centers for what he said was the poor quality of its epidemiological investigations of AIDS. Grew Up in New Jersey
        Alexander Duncan Langmuir was born on Sept. 22, 1910, in Santa Monica, Calif., and grew up in New Jersey.
        At Harvard College, his studies were influenced by his uncle, Irving Langmuir, a physicist and chemist who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1932. But Alexander Langmuir said he found the advanced mathematics of physics "just impossible." So he went to medical school, receiving a degree from Cornell and interning at the Boston City Hospital. His math training and a flair for statistics helped him earn a degree in public health from Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.
        He then worked for the New York State Health Department in Albany and as Deputy Commissioner of Health for Westchester County. In World War II he was a member of the Army's Commission on Acute Respiratory Diseases at Fort Bragg, N.C.
        After the war he returned to Johns Hopkins. But he left for the disease centers because, he later said, he "was rather disenchanted with academic life at Johns Hopkins."
        In 1988, he returned to Johns Hopkins where, earlier this year, students selected him as an outstanding teacher.
        Among his awards were those from the Charles A. Dana Foundation for pioneering achievements in public health, the American Public Health Association and the Royal Society of Medicine in England. He was a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a number of other professional organizations.
        Dr. Langmuir married twice. His first wife was the former Sara Ann Harper. His second was Dr. Leona Baumgartner, a former Commissioner of Health in New York City. Both have died.
        He is survived by three daughters, Anne Ruggles of Atlanta, Susan Davis of Philadelphia and Lynn Adams of Boston; a son, Paul H., of Providence, R.I.; a brother, David, of Los Angeles; a sister, Edith Leverenz of Naples, Fla., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      