
        Dr. Gregory Richard Anrig, head of the company that created the aptitude tests taken by millions of students, died on Sunday at the Princeton Medical Center. He was 61 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The company, the Educational Testing Service of Lawrenceville, N.J., said the cause was cancer. The service is the oldest and largest creator of standardized examinations. Dr. Anrig had been its president since 1981.
        Its products include the Scholastic Assessment Test, or S.A.T., which 1.8 million high school students take each year before going to college, and the Graduate Record Examination, which 400,000 students a year take.
        Under Dr. Anrig the service devised ways to assess students and broke ground in computerized examinations.  Just yesterday the company took a major step to end standardized paper-and-pencil tests by introducing a computerized G.R.E. The computerized test is optional. But by 1996-97 students who take it will use computers. Instead of waiting weeks for the results in the mail, students will receive them at the end of the test by pushing computer keys. There is no date for computerizing the S.A.T.
        Dr. Anrig became head of the testing service after being Education Commissioner in Massachusetts. A believer in "truth in testing," Dr. Anrig led a campaign to set standards for quality and fairness, to root out sex biases that critics saw. He worked on measurements to help students learn while being tested and to identify requirements for effective teaching.
        Dr. Anrig was born in Englewood, N.J. He graduated from Western Michigan University and earned master's and doctorates in teaching at Harvard University. After starting as a junior high school teacher he was a principal in White Plains. In the 60's he worked in the Office of Education in Washington on equal opportunity. As a commissioner in Massachusetts from 1973 to 1981 he worked to desegregate the schools in Boston and 16 other cities.
        In 1989 the Harvard Graduate School of Education gave Dr. Anrig the Alumni Council Award. Last month the College Board gave him its Medal for Distinguished Service at its national forum in New Orleans.
        Surviving are his wife, Charlotte Schlott Anrig; two sons, Gregory, of Manhattan and Christopher, of Pennington, N.J.; a daughter, Susan Lichten of Manhattan; his mother, Edith Watson of Hightstown, N.J., and a brother, Raymond, of Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Fla.
      