
        Valeriu C. Georgescu, a retired vice president of Standard Oil of New Jersey and later an international oil consultant in Geneva, died Saturday at his home there. He was 89.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said his son, Peter A. Georgescu of New York.
        Born in Romania and educated in Britain, Mr. Georgescu was the manager of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey's operations at the Ploesti oilfields in Romania at the start of World War II. Known for his anti-Nazi views, he aided captured American fliers who had been shot down over Romania and was imprisoned by the Romanian Government, then allied with Germany..
        Liberated after hostilities ended, Mr. Georgescu returned to his former position with Standard Oil. But he quickly ran afoul of the newly installed Communist Government. His Romanian citizenship was revoked while he was in New York with his wife on a business trip. Their two sons, Peter and Constantin, had been left at their home in Bucharest.  Sons Held in Romania
        The Romanian Government repeatedly refused to allow the boys to be reunited with their parents, and Mr. Georgescu and his family became symbols of Communist suppression of freedom.
        In 1953, Mr. Georgescu charged that a Romanian diplomat in Washington had offered to free the boys if, in exchange, he would spy on the United States for the Romanian Government. The disclosure outraged the United States, the diplomat was expelled, and President Eisenhower intervened to win the release of the boys a year later.
        Peter A. Georgescu is now the president of Young & Rubicam Inc., the advertising agency with headquarters in New York. Constantin Georgescu became an analyst for the National Security Agency. He died last year.
        Their father remained with Standard Oil until he retired in 1961, subsequently moving to Europe where he went into the oil consulting business.
        He is survived, in addition to his son, Peter, by his wife of 62 years, Lygia, and three grandchildren.
      