
        James Stern, an Anglo-Irish critic and prolific writer of short stories that traced his wanderings through the British Isles, Africa, the Pacific and America, died on Monday at his home in Tisbury, England. He was 88.
        Mr. Stern was in frail health after he broke a hip several months ago, said a friend, the writer Nora Sayre.
        He was the author of more than 50 short stories, a translator of many German writers and the writer of a widely read study of Europe after World War II. Mr. Stern lived in New York for two decades, starting in 1939.
        While here he contributed to The New Republic, Harper's Magazine and The Nation, and worked briefly for Time magazine. Over the years he contributed scores of reviews to The New York Times Book Review. Told of Wartime Suffering
        In "The Hidden Damage," published in 1947, Mr. Stern related the spiritual havoc suffered by Western Europeans in World War II, as well as his own reminiscences of a childhood in Ireland and England.
        Mr. Stern was sent to Europe by the War Department in 1945 as a member of the Strategic Bombing Survey to discover the effects of bombing on the German public. "The Hidden Damage" was his own version of the chaos he saw and felt.
        His works also included "The Heartless Land" (1932), dealing with life in Rhodesia; "Something Wrong" (1938), about parents and children; "The Man Who Was Loved" (1951), a collection of short stories, and another collection, "The Stories of James Stern," published in 1969. 'A Traveling Writer'
        The critic V. S. Pritchett said of Mr. Stern's writing style: "He is essentially a traveling writer, visiting people's lives, making thoughtful and humane observations about them, passionate in his rendering of landscape, capable of many kinds of story, strong in episode and situation."
        Mr. Stern turned to short-story writing in 1930 as a means of escaping from the boredom of working as a bank clerk in London. He had attended Eton and Sandhurst, and then for a time worked as a steeplechase rider, pig farmer and cattle rancher.
        He was the translator, sometimes in collaboration with his wife, Tania Stern, of many writers in German, including Thomas Mann, Franz Kafka and Erich Maria Remarque.
        He is survived by his wife and a brother, Peter Stern.
      