
        Severo Ochoa, the biochemist who won the Nobel Prize for his discovery of an enzyme that can synthesize RNA, a nucleic acid that is a vital part of the genetic machinery of living cells, died on Monday in Madrid. He was 88.
        The cause was pneumonia, hospital officials in Madrid said.
        Dr. Arthur Kornberg shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology for Medicine in 1959 with Dr. Ochoa and worked as a postdoctoral student in Dr. Ochoa's laboratory. He said yesterday in New York that Dr. Ochoa was "a fine teacher, a person of great enthusiasm and optimism."  Esteemed by Colleagues
        Two characteristics earned Severo Ochoa (pronounced say-VAY-roh oh-CHOH-ah) the esteem of his colleagues and the world's most prestigious scientific homage. One was his unlimited enthusiasm for dealing with recondite problems in the life sciences. The other was a subtle and lucid mind that enabled him to grasp and comprehend the complexities of basic biochemistry.
        "Ochoa's attitude toward science is exemplary," an admiring associate, Francisco Grande, wrote. "For him science is primarily an intellectual adventure: the search of truth for truth's sake; an endeavor to a better understanding of the practical advantages which may be derived."
        The same associate also paid tribute to the Spanish-born scientist's "modesty, the warmth of his heart and his innate kindness." And indeed, Dr. Ochoa, for all his immersion in pure research, was wholly aware of the world around him. He listed himself as a liberal in politics and as an opponent of nuclear testing. He also made no secret of his sympathy with the former Republican Government in Spain and his support of social pluralism. He considered an open society vital to science. Committed to Laboratory
        Dr. Ochoa committed himself to the laboratory while he still was a teen-ager. He was born Sept. 24, 1905, in the village of Luarca on Spain's northern coast. An extraordinarily bright student, he entered the Madrid University Medical School in 1922 at age 17.  A high-school teacher in Malaga had stimulated Dr. Ochoa's interest in chemistry and the youth's decision to enter medical school, he told a friend, was not to study medicine but to ground himself in the life sciences.
        "I treated as few patients as I could as a medical student," he said, "and I never practiced medicine."
        Dr. Ochoa received his medical degree in 1929; it was the only academic degree he ever bothered to get although he might have sought a doctorate in several other disciplines. Under Negrin's Influence
        In medical school he came under the influence of Dr. Juan Negrin, the physiologist and later leader of the Spanish Republican Government. Dr. Negrin, impressed by his student's aptitude, invited him to join his laboratory staff as an instructor, a post Dr. Ochoa held until his graduation.
        Dr. Ochoa's first big research job was in Germany, where he worked from 1929 to 1931 in the physiology laboratory of Dr. Otto Meyerhoff, who had won a Nobel Prize in 1922 for his contributions to medicine and physiology. It was there that Dr. Ochoa deepened his interest in the enzymatic mechanisms of metabolic reactions -- an interest he maintained throughout his life. Specifically, Dr. Ochoa first investigated the sources of energy for muscular contraction in the frog.
        Returning to Spain in 1931, Dr. Ochoa was named a lecturer in physiology and biochemistry at the University of Madrid Medical School. Four years later he was promoted to head the physiology division of the university's Institute for Medical Research. A year later, however, he decided that because of the Civil War, the future of scientific research in Spain was bleak. He went back to work for Dr. Meyerhoff. Germany, Oxford and the U.S.
        After working in Germany for a year, and for two years at the Oxford University Medical School, he immigrated to the United States "as a better place for science." He became an American citizen in 1956.
        His first post in this country was as a pharmacology instructor at Washington University in St. Louis. In 1942 he moved to New York University, becoming a professor and chairman of its department of biochemistry in 1954. He left the university in 1986 and returned to Spain.
        Dr. Ochoa made a number of distinctive and important contributions to science, starting with his work in the late 1930's on Vitamin B-1.
        The discovery for which Dr. Ochoa received the Nobel Prize in 1959 was made in 1955. It was a bacterial enzyme, or biological catalyst, that can synthesize in the test tube the vital life substance named ribonucleic acid, or RNA, from its chemical units. He shared the prize with Dr. Kornberg, who was cited for discovering a different bacterial enzyme with the ability to synthesize another vital life chemical -- deoxyribunucleic acid, or DNA. A Reaction in Reverse
        Dr. Kornberg noted yesterday that the natural function of Dr. Ochoa's enzyme is now known to be to degrade RNA, not to synthesize it. Under test tube conditions, such as those studied by Dr. Ochoa, the enzyme runs its natural reaction in reverse. Dr. Kornberg added that although Dr. Ochoa's Nobel citation might perhaps have to be reworded, "his contribution to biochemistry is gigantic and easily accounts for the wide recognition he has had."
        RNA is a basic material for all living tissue, essential in the production of protein. It is found in the cytoplasm, the "envelope" surrounding the cell nucleus.  In 1956 Dr. Ochoa applied his discovery by creating an artificial virus in a test tube, using RNA material. The work was done in cooperation with Dr. Wendell M. Stanley, a virus expert at the University of California. Lived in Forest Hills
        Dr. Ochoa was not pretentious about his work nor was he pretentious about his life. For many years he and his wife, the former Carmen Cobian, lived plainly in Forest Hills, Queens. In the 1960's, they moved to a 10th-floor apartment overlooking the East River at 72d Street. Its walls were decorated with pictures the couple had acquired on their travels. They had no children.  For relaxation Dr. Ochoa liked to listen to music -- Mozart, Bach or Beethoven. Out of doors his hobby was color photography. Indoors and out, at home or in the laboratory, he was almost always enveloped in a haze of cigarette smoke for which, even as a physician, he made no apology.
        He was tall and he had the courtly manners and habits of a Continental gentleman. In his 60's he had an impressive shock of gray hair. It set off an olive complexion and framed a face notable for its deep brown eyes and dark brows.
        Dr. Ochoa's wife, Carmen, died in 1986. He will buried in Luarca, a fishing port on the north coast of Spain, where he was born.
      