
        Dr. Lipman Bers, a retired Columbia University mathematician who was a champion of human rights, died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital in New York. He was 79 and a resident of New Rochelle.
        He had been ill with Parkinson's disease and had had strokes in the last three years, said his son, Victor, of Hamden, Conn.
        Dr. Bers (pronounced bears) was the Davies Professor of Mathematics at Columbia from 1973 to 1982, when he reached emeritus status. Though he contributed significantly to modern mathematics and tutored generations of students, he was better known to a wider public as a vociferous campaigner for human rights.
        He founded the Committee on Human Rights of the National Academy of Sciences and took on the cause of dissident mathematicians in the Soviet Union who were unable to work or travel freely. He also was a vocal supporter of the physicist Andrei Sakharov and his wife, Yelena Bonner. Fled to Czechoslovakia
        "His experiences in Europe motivated his activism in the human-rights movement," said his son, who is a professor of classics at Yale University. The elder Dr. Bers was born in Riga, the capital of Latvia, the son of politically active Jews.
        He protested against the Latvian regime that took power in 1934 and then fled to Czechoslovakia, where he received a doctorate from the University of Prague in 1938. He later made his way to Paris and then, 10 days ahead of the German Army in 1940, to the United States.
        He became an instructor at Brown University, associate professor at Syracuse University and professor at New York University, where he headed the graduate mathematics department from 1959 to 1964. That year he joined the Columbia faculty. He served as department chairman there in the early 1970's.
        Dr. Bers was instrumental in getting exit visas from the Soviet Government for prominent mathematicians in the 1970's, including Yuri Shikhanovich, Leonid Plyushch and Valentin Turchin, whom he had invited to teach at Columbia.
        And in receiving an honorary doctorate at the State University at Stony Brook in 1984, Dr. Bers reminded the graduating class of this country's support of foreign regimes that brutally oppress their citizens.
        He published nearly 100 articles in mathematical journals and earned an international reputation for his work in mathematical analysis and geometry.
        The City of New York awarded him the Mayor's Award of Honor for Science and Technology in 1985. It cited him for "giving special encouragement to women mathematicians" and serving as "a tireless fighter for the human rights of persecuted scientists throughout the world."
        In nominating Dr. Bers for the award, Masatake Kuranishi, who succeeded him as Davies Professor at Columbia, said, "He is known for his breadth of knowledge, depth of insight and speaking wit."
        In addition to his son, Dr. Bers is survived by his wife of 55 years, Mary Kagan Bers; a daughter, Ruth Shapiro of Manhattan; a half-sister, Shelly Spungin of Rehovot, Israel; five granddaughters, and one great-grandson.
      