
        Dr. Nicholas A. Rango, who built New York State's AIDS Institute into the nation's largest state AIDS program while struggling with the illness himself, died on Wednesday at home. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was AIDS, the State Health Department said.
        Dr. Rango publicly acknowledged his illness and his homosexuality. He ran the agency from his sickbed during medical relapses. In June he said, "When you're aware the clock is ticking, it focuses your attention."
        Through his work in New York, he exerted national influence on AIDS issues. He also organized his counterparts from other states into a coalition to lobby for Federal money and policy changes. Recruited in 1987
        Dr. Rango was recruited to his post as director of the AIDS Institute in 1987 as the epidemic worsened in New York, which has the most AIDS cases in the country. His mission was to plan treatment and prevention and to get services delivered.
        During his tenure, the AIDS Institute quadrupled its budget to $120 million and expanded into a wide array of programs.
        Dr. Rango broadened services to people other than gay men who were increasingly afflicted by AIDS, including heterosexuals, women and babies. New programs were begun for teen-agers, minorities, prisoners and addicts.
        Advocates for AIDS programs, even while complaining about the state's shortcomings, considered him a friend behind the scenes. Once, when the group Act Up disrupted a State Public Health Council meeting by blowing deafening horns, Dr. Rango confided to a bystander that he was glad the protesters kept the pressure on.
        "We are moving too slow," he said in 1989, repeating a frequent theme. "We have done a lot, but we have not done enough." Sometimes acerbic, he said at a 1990 seminar on lobbying: "On the issue of AIDS, the New York Congressional delegation is somewhere between stage three and four of a coma." The First Long-Range Plan
        Dr. Rango assembled the state's first long-range plan on AIDS. It called for action by 18 agencies, including those dealing with human rights, the courts, schools, mental health, youths, parolees, addicts and welfare recipients.
        He initiated AIDS medical care standards, a wider definition of AIDS entitling more patients to receive care, special nursing homes and residences, higher reimbursements to encourage doctors and clinics to treat AIDS patients, housing aid, prison health programs, home care, tuberculosis programs, care for the uninsured, research to prevent accidental exposures like needle sticks and special training for doctors and nurses.
        Dr. Rango advocated giving clean needles to drug users to curb infection, a measure resisted by many state and local officials. He also expanded preventive education, voluntary testing, confidentiality protection, subsidized medications for 7,300 patients and a network of AIDS treatment centers in 23 hospitals across the state.
        Nationally, he led the opposition to mandatory testing of health care workers and to the barring of infected people from doing invasive medical procedures.
        In New York he worked with State Health Commissioners David Axelrod and Mark Chassin and with the State AIDS Advisory Council and its chairman, David Rogers. With Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, they forged the administration's AIDS programs and sought support from the Legislature.
        Getting money for the agency was a constant struggle, and Dr. Rango was quick to defend its semi-independent status within the Health Department.
        He did not win every battle. He failed in an attempt to require Roman Catholic-run AIDS nursing homes to give preventive education on safe sex and the use of condoms. When the recession hit, AIDS funds and staffing did not rise so quickly as the epidemic, which by June 30 reached 61,082 cases with 42,567 deaths.
        Trained in gerontology and sociology, Dr. Rango was the director of the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan before joining the AIDS agency. In AIDS work he faced many of the same terminal-care issues but in much younger patients, he said. An Ohio Native
        Dr. Rango was born in Youngstown, Ohio. He graduated from St. Louis University in Missouri and earned his medical degree at Northwestern University. At Cook County Hospital in Chicago, he was president of the Residents and Interns Association, a union with more than 500 members.
        He earned a doctorate in sociology at Columbia and for nine years taught health at Barnard College, where he developed a health policy and medical ethics program for premedical students.
        Dr. Rango won awards for his work, published research in medical journals and assisted on the federally sponsored National Hospice Study and the Hasting Center's project on Termination of Treatment and Care of the Dying.
        His survivors include his mother, Doris, of Manhattan; a brother, Arthur, of Manhattan, and a sister, Ann Ursula Watkins of Warren, Ohio.
        A Mass will be held at 12:45 P.M. on Wednesday at the Church of St. Francis Xavier at 30 West 16th Street in Manhattan.
      