
        Robert Allan Jacobs, who practiced architecture in New York for 40 years, died yesterday at his home in Pawling, N.Y. He was 88.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Margot.
        Mr. Jacobs graduated from Amherst College and Columbia University's School of Architecture and worked for the architects Le Corbusier in Paris and Wallace K. Harrison in New York. In 1940, he became a partner in the New York firm that was known first as Ely Jacques Kahn and Robert Allan Jacobs and then as Kahn & Jacobs.
        Over the next several decades, the firm either designed or took part in the design of many buildings in the New York City area. Firm Designed Asphalt Plant
        Perhaps the firm's most notable structure was the Municipal Asphalt Plant at 90th Street and East River Drive. The design of this seemingly prosaic structure was attacked by Robert Moses, then the most powerful planner in New York, as "horrible modernistic stuff." Yet the Museum of Modern Art singled out the building as being among the best designed buildings of the 1930's and 40's, and it was praised by many other architects. The structure is now known as Asphalt Green and is a community center.
        Among the firm's other major designs were the American Airlines terminal at Kennedy International Airport and One Astor Plaza, a Manhattan office building. Several dozen of Kahn & Jacobs's other New York projects were collaborations with other architectural firms. In 1972, Kahn & Jacobs merged with Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum.
        Mr. Jacobs was a past president of the Architectural League of New York and a fellow of the American Institute of Architects.
        In addition to his wife of 27 years, he is survived by three children from a previous marriage, Robert Allan Jr., of Westport, Conn., and Barbara Tamerin and Frances Frawley, both of Manhattan; a sister, Jane J. Moffat of Manhattan; a brother, Harry Allan Jacobs of Irvington, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      