
        Gertrude Blom, a Swiss-born sociologist and photographer who spent five decades documenting the Mayan cultures of southern Mexico, died on Thursday in San Cristobal de las Casas, Mexico. She was 92.
        An associate of Mrs. Blom told Reuters the cause was pneumonia, secondary to heart disease.
        Mrs. Blom, who was also a journalist, anthropologist and explorer, spent most of her time in San Cristbal de las Casas in the southern state of Chiapas.
        There she documented contrasting cultures of two Mayan peoples, one in the highlands, the second in the Lacandona jungle along the border with Guatemala, showing what they have adopted from modern society and what they have kept of their own cultures.
        She chronicled the lives of the second group through the creation of the Na Bolom Cultural Association.
        The headquarters of the association, whose name is Mayan for "house of the jaguar," contained her home, a library and a museum about the vast jungle, which became a focal point for environmental and anthropological research into the Mayan culture. The complex also contained an inn for visitors and volunteer workers who came to live there for short periods.
        In recent years several exhibits of her photographs of the Mayans have been held in Manhattan, the latest this fall in the International Center of Photography at 1130 Fifth Avenue.
        Born in Bern, Mrs. Blom went to Mexico in 1940 with her husband, Franz Blom, a Danish archeologist and cartographer. They explored the Lacandona jungle for the first time three years later. During the next 20 years, until Mr. Blom's death in 1963, their explorations led to the discovery of many important Mayan ruins.
        Together they worked to preserve the jungle and its rich biosphere. However, associates said that in recent years Mrs. Blom had been despondent about the deforestation that was shrinking the Lacandona and wiping out the culture of its inhabitants.
        Correction:  January 1, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Gertrude Blom summarized her career incompletely. In addition to being a journalist, photographer and anthropologist, she was also a horticulturist. The obituary also misspelled the name of one of the Mayan jungles in which she worked. It was the Lacandon jungle. The article also referred incorrectly to the circumstances of her marriage. She and her husband married in 1943 after meeting on an expedition in Mexico.
      