
        Alice Tully, a philanthropist who was an important figure in New York City's musical life for almost half a century, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91.
        Her lawyer, James McGarry, said the cause was the flu. She had not been seen in public since suffering a stroke in 1991.
        Miss Tully, for whom Lincoln Center's chamber-music hall is named, was as respected for her knowledge of music and its practitioners as for her generosity.
        As a singer who had a modest operatic and recital career in the 1930's, she was keenly aware of the problems performers face, and throughout her life was a friend and supporter of singers, pianists and composers. After she inherited her family's wealth -- her maternal grandfather was Amory Houghton, the founder of Corning Glass Works -- she donated many millions of dollars to the arts. A Birthday Portrait
        For many years Miss Tully made her contributions anonymously, and when she agreed to underwrite a chamber-music hall in the Juilliard Building at Lincoln Center, she stipulated that her name not be associated with it. Eventually, John D. Rockefeller 3d, Lincoln Center's first chairman, persuaded her to allow the hall to be named in her honor. In 1987, to celebrate her 85th birthday, Lincoln Center commissioned Thomas Buechner to paint a full-length portrait of her, which hangs in the hall's main foyer. Miss Tully always refused to tell how much of the hall's cost she contributed, but she did not dispute reports that said she paid most of the $4.5 million.
        She did say that one reason she was hesitant to accept the hall's dedication at first was that Philharmonic Hall and the New York State Theater had been acoustical disasters. "I did not want my name associated with a hall that would have bad acoustics," she told an interviewer in 1987. She changed her mind when Lincoln Center engaged Heinrich Keilholz, who had revamped Severance Hall in Cleveland in 1958, as acoustician.  More Space, Fewer Seats
        She took an active hand in the hall's design, selecting the colors of the walls, seat covering and foyer carpeting. She paid particular attention to adequate leg room.
        "I had spent so many, many hours cramped in narrow spaces, both here and in Europe, and I felt that this was something we should have," she said in the 1987 interview. "The architects disagreed, because what I wanted would have meant having three fewer rows. So I went to William Schuman, who was president of Lincoln Center at the time, and I said: 'You're a tall man. Wouldn't you like to sit comfortably? Do let us have one comfortable hall in New York City.' "
        Mr. Schuman agreed, Miss Tully said. "So I drew a breath of relief. But I had to keep my eye on it just the same."
        Later, after much personal research in Europe, she was deeply involved in selecting the Theodore Kuhn Company to build the hall's organ, which experts said cost well over $250,000.
        When the hall was in the planning stages, Miss Tully encouraged the creation of its resident ensemble, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, and was the chairwoman of its board for many years. She also served on the boards of the New York Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera and the Juilliard School of Music. Myriad Beneficiaries
        In addition to her involvement with Lincoln Center, Miss Tully was an active supporter of dance, art and humanitarian organizations. She gave generously to the Martha Graham Dance Company and Eliot Feld's ballet troupe, and she was a board member of numerous other arts and educational institutions. She contributed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Frick Collection and the Morgan Library, among others.
        Michael J. Spencer, a pianist who founded Hospital Audiences, which provides access to the arts for the disabled, said yesterday that when he began playing concerts in state mental hospitals in the 1960's he sought funds everywhere and only one organization responded. "It was something called the Maya Corporation, and it was only in the early 70's that I found out it was Alice Tully providing the funds." Miss Tully had founded the corporation to disperse cash gifts anonymously. Mr. Spencer added that he received a Maya donation only last week.
        Miss Tully never wanted the extent of her largesse known. Irwin Scherzer, the manager of the Chamber Music Society in its early days and a close friend of Miss Tully, said: "She wouldn't know herself how much money she had donated. She did what she thought was best, where she thought it would do the most good."
        Alice Bigelow Tully was born on Sept. 11, 1902, in Corning, N.Y. Her father, William J. Tully, was a lawyer and a two-term New York State senator. The actress Katharine Hepburn is her second cousin. When Mr. Tully became general counsel to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in 1908, the family moved to New York City, where Miss Tully attended Mrs. J. D. Randall MacIvor's School. Later she continued her studies at the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn.  A Recital Inspired Her
        Miss Tully often said that she decided to devote herself to music when she was 14 or 15 years old, after hearing a recital by the pianist Josef Hofmann. But although piano studies were part of her schooling, her first musical love was singing. In 1922, after studying voice in New York for three years, she went to Paris for seven years of study with Jean Perier, the baritone who created the role of Pelleas in Debussy's opera "Pelleas et Melisande," and with Miguel Fontecha and Therese Leschetizky.
        Beginning as a mezzo-soprano and then moving to the dramatic soprano repertory, Miss Tully made her professional debut in 1927, when she sang works by Gluck, Franck, Chausson and Faure with the Pasdeloup Orchestra in Paris. Six years later she made her operatic debut at the Hippodrome in New York, singing Santuzza -- her best role, by her own estimation -- in a Salmaggi Opera production of Mascagni's "Cavalleria Rusticana."
        She also sang the title role in a production of Bizet's "Carmen" at the Manhattan Opera House in 1935, and through the late 1930's she performed frequently as a recitalist in Europe and the United States. Reviewing a 1937 Town Hall recital in The New York Times, Olin Downes wrote that Miss Tully's program was of "rare interest and artistic distinction" and praised her "musicianly zeal and catholicity of taste."
        Miss Tully, looking back on her career in a 1982 interview with Harold C. Schonberg of The Times, said: "It may not have been the biggest career, but it was a good one. I was always concerned with the best in music, and I think I had something individual to offer."  Avid Amateur Pilot
        With the outbreak of World War II, Miss Tully settled permanently in New York and continued her vocal studies. But she suspended her career to devote herself to the war effort. An avid amateur pilot, she joined the Civil Air Patrol and flew on submarine scouting missions. But she decided to "be of more use" and became a Red Cross nurse's aid at the French Hospital in Manhattan.
        In 1950, Miss Tully stopped singing professionally because, she later said, she felt that her voice was losing its flexibility. Upon the death of her mother, Clara Houghton Tully, in 1958, Miss Tully inherited a substantial estate, and began her career as a philanthropist. It was at about that time that her cousin, Arthur Houghton Jr., one of the founders of Lincoln Center, approached her with the idea of contributing toward the concert hall that now bears her name.
        The hall opened on Miss Tully's 67th birthday, Sept. 11, 1969, with a program by the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. It was judged a superb setting for chamber music, both acoustically and visually, and the most successful of Lincoln Center's concert halls.
        Miss Tully, who never married, was a tall, slender, regal woman with a friendly smile, a wry sense of humor, and a comprehensive knowledge of musical literature and the world of performers. After chamber music and art songs, her love was opera, particularly Wagner, and well into her 80's she regularly traveled to Europe to see new productions, keep track of singers and directors, and serve on competition juries. She was especially fond of the Spoleto Festival in Italy; its founder, Gian Carlo Menotti, wrote "Cantilene e Scherzo" and "Nocturne" for her. Others who dedicated works to her include Mr. Schuman, who wrote "A Round for Alice," and Riccardo Malipiero, who composed "Serenata per Alice Tully." Recipient of Many Honors
        In 1970, Miss Tully was awarded a Handel Medallion, New York City's highest cultural award. She received the Gallatin Medal from New York University in 1976 for "contributions of lasting significance to society," was a recipient of the first National Medal of Arts in 1985, and received the American Red Cross Humanitarian Award in 1988. A devoted Francophile for most of her life, she received many honors from the French Government, and was made an officer in the French Legion of Honor.
        Miss Tully's only sibling, a younger sister, Marion Tully Dimick of Washington, died in 1981.
      