
        Dorothy Raedler, a stage director, choreographer and impresario who specialized in the works of Gilbert and Sullivan, died last Saturday at her home in St. Croix in the United States Virgin Islands. She was 76.
        The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Miss Raedler's company, which began as Masque and Lyre Light Opera in 1939 and became the American Savoyards in 1952, was a highly regarded fixture in the New York musical world through the late 1960's. Miss Raedler began her work modestly, first directing her Gilbert and Sullivan productions in the homes of company members, then moving to the basement of the Jan Hus House on East 74th Street, and eventually to larger theaters. In the 1960's, she directed productions for the City Center Gilbert and Sullivan Company, the New York City Opera and the Baltimore Civic Opera.
        Miss Raedler was born in New York. She organized the Masque and Lyre company as an amateur troupe during her student years at Hunter College and reorganized it as a semi-professional company in 1948. From the start, the company earned enthusiastic reviews from both music and drama critics, and it began to operate year round. In 1952, after a visit to England to research Gilbert and Sullivan traditions, she renamed the company the American Savoyards and took "The Mikado" and "Patience" on a cross-country tour. The following year, she instituted a summer season in Monmouth, Me.
        Besides the Gilbert and Sullivan repertory, she directed productions of "Madama Butterfly," "Carmen," "The Merry Widow" and operettas by Victor Herbert, Franz Lehar and Rudolf Friml.
        Miss Raedler was on the original board of the Harlem School of the Arts and helped found the St. Croix School of the Arts. She lived in St. Croix for 25 years and occasionally directed performances there, including a production of Scott Joplin's opera, "Treemonisha."
        She is survived by her sister, Florence Storm of Big Rapids, Mich.
      