
        Margaret Landon, whose novel "Anna and the King of Siam" was the inspiration for the Broadway musical "The King and I," died on Saturday at the Hermitage retirement home in Alexandria, Va. She was 90.
        Although Mrs. Landon spent more than 10 years in Siam, now Thailand, it was not her story, but that of Anna Leonowens, that was the basis for Mrs. Landon's 1944 book. While living in Siam, Mrs. Landon discovered the autobiographical books by Anna Leonowens, a Welsh widow who was a governess, teacher and secretary in the court of King Mongkut in the 1860's.
        The story in Mrs. Landon's book was told in a 1946 film starring Irene Dunne, as Anna, and Rex Harrison, as the king. But it was the 1956 musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d that immortalized the story of the Mrs. Leonowens and her extraordinary relationship with the King of Siam. 10 Years as a Missionary
        Margaret Dorothea Mortensen was born in 1903 in Somers, Wis., and grew up in Evanston, Ill. A 1925 graduate of Wheaton College in Illinois, she married Kenneth Landon, a seminary student whom she met on campus, in 1926. In 1927 the couple set out for Siam as educational missionaries for the Presbyterian Church. There, Mrs. Landon discovered the books "The English Governess at the Siamese Court" and "The Romance of the Harem," and the letters of Mrs. Leonowens.
        After 10 years in Siam, Mrs. Landon returned to the United States with her family in 1937. Beginning by writing articles about Anna Leonowens, Mrs. Landon eventually wove together history, biography and a fictionalization of the Welsh woman's story into her best-selling novel.
        In 1942 Mrs. Landon moved with her family to Washington, where her husband was a Government specialist on Southeast Asia. She wrote one other book, "Never Dies the Dream," published in 1948.
        Mrs. Landon's husband died on Aug. 26. She is survived by two daughters, Margaret Schoenherr of Palos Heights, Ill., and Carol Pearson of Clinton, S.C.; two sons, William, of Bellevue, Wash., and Kenneth Jr., of Washington; 13 grandchildren, and 27 great-grandchildren.
      