
        Moses Gunn, an actor whose career of more than three decades included roles ranging from Othello to Booker T. Washington, died on Friday at his home in Guilford, Conn. He was 64.
        The cause was complications of asthma, said his wife, Gwendolyn. He had been ill since May, she said.
        Once hailed by critics as one of the country's finest actors, Mr. Gunn continued to work until his final illness, ending his career as he began it: playing provocative roles on stage and screen. He made a guest appearance last year on the television series "Homicide" and most recently co-starred in productions of "Blood Knot" and "My Children, My Africa," both by the South African playwright Athol Fugard. New York Stage Successes
        Mr. Gunn, a co-founder of the Negro Ensemble Company, played myriad roles. He received an Image Award from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People for his performance as Booker T. Washington in the 1981 film "Ragtime," and an Emmy nomination for his role in the television mini-series "Roots" as Kintango, the leader of a secret society in Africa that preserved and performed the rites of manhood. His numerous stage appearances included "Othello" and the original New York production of "The Blacks," by Jean Genet, in 1962.
        Mr. Gunn was born in St. Louis, the eldest of seven children of a laborer. He began performing dramatic readings when he was 9. His mother died when he was 12, and at 17 he moved into the home of Jewel Richie, who taught English and diction.
        He went on to attend Tennessee State University in Nashville, where he majored in speech and drama. One summer he founded a theater company called Footlights Across Tennessee, which toured colleges in the South and the Midwest. At the University of Kansas, where he did graduate work, Mr. Gunn played Othello for the first time.
        His goal soon became the New York stage, and he taught speech and drama at Grambling College in Louisiana to save the money to go. Soon after arriving in New York in the early 1960's, he became an understudy in "The Blacks" off Broadway, earning $15 a week. Six months later, he became a regular cast member.
        Mr. Gunn won several Obie awards for his performances in Off Broadway productions including "Titus Andronicus," "The First Breeze of Summer" and "Daddy Goodness."
        He also appeared in several feature films, including "The Great White Hope" and "Shaft," and television series like "Little House on the Prarie" and "Good Times." He was featured in a television production of "Of Mice and Men."
        Mr. Gunn is survived by his wife; a son, Justin, of Guilford; a daughter, Kirsten Landes Mudd of Philadelphia; a brother, George Jr., of St. Louis; and three sisters, Dorothy Acuff and Rae Scott of St. Louis, and Ora Lee Wiggins of Benton Harbor, Mich.
      