
        Lewis D. Gilbert, an advocate of shareowner rights and one of the first gadflies to speak out at annual meetings on behalf of small stockholders, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was a heart ailment, said his brother, John J., who worked with Lewis for 40 years in publishing an annual compendium of stockholder activities at corporate meetings.
        Mr. Gilbert, who attended 100 or more annual meetings for more than 50 years, fought to bring what he called corporate democracy to major American corporations. By persistently questioning chief executive officers -- some of them considered it badgering -- he succeeded in getting more companies to hold annual meetings in accessible locations, to issue post-meeting reports, to limit stock options for executives and to require their auditors to attend the meetings. 'A Lonely Voice'
        "A lot of the ideas that the Gilberts pushed for for many years to make boards accountable to shareholders have become real," said James E. Heard, the president of Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises large institutions on voting at annual meetings. "They were a lonely voice out there for a long time and a lot of what they were saying has relevance today."
        Lewis Dusenberry Gilbert, who was financially independent as a result of inheritances from his parents and grandparents, was born in Palo Alto, Calif. He worked briefly as a reporter for weekly newspapers in the New York metropolitan area. In 1933, he went to his first annual meeting at the Consolidated Gas Company, which later became part of Consolidated Edison.
        "I expected to be welcomed cordially and to be treated like one of the owners," he later said. "I got up to ask a question, but before I had a chance to say anything, one of the officers sitting in the back of the room made a motion to adjourn."
        As a result of that experience, Mr. Gilbert undertook a crusade to make corporate executives more responsive to the stockholders who owned their corporations. Despite being cold-shouldered by many managements and hissed by some other shareholders, he continued to appear regularly at annual meetings to voice his views. He attended his last annual meetings in 1992. Small Blocks of Stock
        At the peak of his influence, Mr. Gilbert, with his family, owned relatively small blocks of stock in about 1,500 corporations. He once said that he and his brother live on "dividends and interest -- just like everyone else."
        Mr. Gilbert's very appearance at an annual meeeting often had an upsetting effect on many chief executives, including one who told him to "drop dead" and another who threatened him with a punch in the nose. The motions he proposed from the floor were frequently defeated, but he also won victories on such matters as updated accounting procedures and cumulative voting for directors.
        Mr. Gilbert, who was an Army corporal in World War II, did battle with Generals Douglas MacArthur and Lucius D. Clay when he discovered that they did not own shares of companies of which they were directors, Remington Rand and Marine Midland. Both generals bought stock in those corporations after Mr. Gilbert's remarks.
        He also crossed swords with former New York Gov. Thomas E. Dewey, who at one time served as special counsel for the New York Central Railroad and at a 1957 meeting told Mr. Gilbert to "shut up."
        The annual report of activities by stockholders at annual meetings, issued by Lewis D. and John J. Gilbert Corporate Democracy Inc., was published until 1979. Lewis Gilbert also wrote a book about corporate democracy, "Dividends and Democracy," in 1956.
        Mr. Gilbert is survived by his brother.
      