
        Alexander Mackendrick, the director of the classic British film comedies "The Ladykillers," "Tight Little Island" and "The Man in the White Suit," died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 81.
        The cause was pneumonia, said F. X. Feeney, a friend and the film critic of L.A. Weekly.
        Mr. Mackendrick was born in Boston of Scottish parents. After the death of his father, he and his mother moved to Glasgow, where he attended the Glasgow School of Art. In 1929, he joined an advertising agency in London as a cartoonist and illustrator. After writing film scripts as a freelance, he worked on documentaries for the British Ministry of Information. During World War II, he was sent to Italy to prepare leaflets and cartoons as part of Britain's psychological warfare campaign.
        After the war, Mr. Mackendrick wrote scripts and created story boards for Ealing Studios, where he soon graduated to directing. His first effort was "Whisky Galore" (1948), a surprise hit that was released in the United States as "Tight Little Island." It was followed by two films that starred Alec Guinness, "The Man in White Suit" (1951) and "The Ladykillers" (1955). The latter one also helped establish Peter Sellers as a comic star. The three films are widely considered to be among the best comedies to come out of Ealing Studios.
        Mr. Mackendrick also made dramatic films, including "Mandy," about a deaf girl, which was a success in Britain but failed in the United States. After Ealing Studios was sold to the BBC in 1955, Mr. Mackendrick moved to the Unites States, where he had better luck with "Sweet Smell of Success" (1957), about a powerful newspaper columnist, played by Burt Lancaster, and an on-the-make press agent, played by Tony Curtis.
        His other films included "A Boy 10 Feet Tall" (1963), "A High Wind in Jamaica" (1965) and "Don't Make Waves" (1967).
        In 1969, he became dean of the film school at the California Institute of the Arts. He resigned as dean in 1978 but continued to teach at the college.
        He is survived by his wife, Hilary, and two sons, Matthew and John, all of Los Angeles.
      