
        Rabbi Norman E. Frimer, a retired administrator of campus organizations for Jewish students in the United States and elsewhere who was also a former Brooklyn College professor, died on Saturday at the Ganei Manhat nursing home in Jerusalem. He was 77 and had lived in retirement in Israel for eight years.
        The cause was heart failure, and he had suffered several minor strokes in recent years, said Seymour P. Lachman, a dean at the City University of New York.
        Rabbi Frimer, who grew up in Chicago and had a doctor's degree in medieval studies, served from 1975 to 1979 as the international Hillel director of the B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundations. In that post he oversaw the operations of organizations, mostly called Hillel houses, for Jewish students at more than 300 institutions of higher learning in scores of countries in North and South America and Western Europe. A Professor at Brooklyn College
        After holding other Hillel posts, Rabbi Frimer (pronounced FRIM-mer) was the director of the Brooklyn College Hillel Foundation from 1952 to 1967 and served concurrently as the regional director of the 15 Hillel chapters in the New York metropolitan area. From 1968 to 1975, he was the national coordinator for Hillel affairs in the New York metropolitan area.
        For some years, until 1975, he was also a professor of rabbinics and Holocaust literature at Brooklyn College, which is a unit of the City University of New York.
        In 1967 and 1968, on a leave of absence for one academic year, Rabbi Frimer was academic dean of Stern College, the women's college of Yeshiva University, which is in Manhattan. He was concurrently a professor of ethics at Stern College.
        Rabbi Frimer was born in Toronto, graduated from the Hebrew Theological College in Chicago and earned his doctorate from Yeshiva University.
        From 1979 to 1984 he was the international director of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture.
        "A Jewish Quest for Religious Meaning," a collection of essays by Rabbi Frimer, was published earlier this year by Ktav Publishing House in Hoboken, N.J., in association with B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundations.
        Rabbi Frimer's survivors include his wife, the former Esther Kahn, to whom he was married in 1941; three sons, who live in Israel, Aryeh Frimer, Dov Frimer and Rabbi Shael Frimer, and 12 grandchildren.
      