
        Anthony J. Travia Sr., who served as Speaker of the New York State Assembly from 1965 to 1968, died on Tuesday at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 82.
        Mr. Travia was a Democrat from the East New York section of Brooklyn. He was first elected to the Assembly in 1943 and served as minority leader from 1959 to 1965, when he was elected Speaker.
        During his tenure as Speaker, Mr. Travia had a close working relationship with Nelson A. Rockefeller, who was then Governor. They came from different parties and different social backgrounds, but the two politicians teamed up to enact programs each of them favored.
        As a result of their tandem efforts, unusual in politics, they enacted several measures, including a new state sales tax; a new tax program for New York City; the state's Medicaid program; an program for the City University of New York, and the liberalization of the state's divorce laws. Favored Free College
        In 1967 Mr. Travia served as president of the New York State Constitutional Convention, at which he urged modernization of the courts and a free college education for anyone who wanted it.
        After serving as Speaker for four years, Mr. Travia in 1968 was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York. He resigned that position in 1974 to devote more time to his family.
        Mr. Travia was born in Milwaukee, the son of a barber who had come to the United States from Italy. At the age of 14 Mr. Travia moved with his family to Corona, Queens, and later to East New York. He washed dishes and served subpoenas to pay his way through the St. John's University School of Law at night. Backed Earlier Albany Notable
        At 17, while he was still a college student, Mr. Travia spoke from the back of a truck in support of the Presidential candidacy of Alfred E. Smith. That was his entry into politics.
        "The bug bit me and I stayed bitten," he was to recall later. "I found out I loved politics."
        After graduation he joined the Kings Highway Democratic Club, eventually becoming its district leader, a position he held for many years. At the age of 32 he went to Albany for the first time as an Assemblyman, was defeated in a re-election bid two years later, but in 1947 was returned to his old seat and repeatedly re-elected.
        His survivors include his wife of 58 years, the former Rita A. Sorrentino; two sons, Anthony J. Jr., of Lawrenceville, Ga., and Robert F. of Poughquag, N.Y.; a sister and a brother.
      