
        Samuel M. Stayman, whose name is known to millions of bridge players throughout the world because of the Stayman Convention, a form of inquiry in bidding, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Josephine.
        Mr. Stayman was considered one of the world's greatest bridge players and was also a leading bridge administrator, serving as treasurer of the American Contract Bridge League, and later as a trustee of its Charity Foundation.
        But he was best known for the Stayman Convention, a two-club bid in response to one no-trump to ask for a major suit, which is used almost universally. Building on suggestions by his partner, George Rapee, and others, he published the first article on the convention in 1945, and developed the idea in further articles and books. Today there are a host of Stayman offshoots, most of which were frowned on by Mr. Stayman himself. Expert Player and Theorist
        He made many other contributions to the theory of the game. One of them, "Namyats," an inversion of his name, is an artificial opening of four clubs to show a heart suit or four diamonds to show a spade suit.
        Mr. Stayman was equally prominent as a player. He was ranked as a Grand Master by the World Bridge Federation, based on victories in the first three world championships played after World War II. He also represented the United States in world championships in 1956, 1960 and 1964.  He won 19 national titles, nearly all of them in major events. These included the Spingold Knockout Teams seven times, the Vanderbilt Knockout Teams four times, the Board-a-Match Teams twice and the Life Master Pairs once. He was a runner-up 14 times, and won many regional and other titles. His partnerships with George Rapee and Victor Mitchell were world famous. Author of 3 Books
        From 1966 to 1969 Mr. Stayman was treasurer of the American Contract Bridge League, which made him an honorary member in 1969, and he received the same title from the American Bridge Teachers Association in 1979. He was president of the Cavendish Club in Manhattan from 1958 to 1972 and wrote three books: "Expert Bidding at Contract Bridge" (1951, Wellington); "The Complete Stayman System of Contract Bidding" (Rinehart, 1956), and "Do You Play Stayman?" (Odyssey, 1965).
        Mr. Stayman was born in Worcester, Mass., in 1909. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1930 and from Tuck Business College in 1931. He became president of Stayman & Stayman in New York, which owned a woolen mill in Rhode Island. Later he sold his business and became a portfolio manager, operating Strand & Company.  Mr. Stayman's first wife, Marjorie, died in 1960. He is survived by his second wife; a sister, Taube Treitel of Manhattan; four children, Susan Midorsky of Upper Brookville, L.I., Nancy Taub and James Wacht, both of Manhattan, and Judi Feld of Somers, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      