
        Dave Beck, one of the most powerful and outspoken labor leaders spanning the middle of this century and the first of a series of teamster presidents to go to prison in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Northwest Hospital in Seattle. He was 99 and lived in Seattle.
        Mr. Beck was the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters from 1952 to 1957, when he defied a United States Senate hearing on union corruption by invoking the Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination 117 times.
        Built almost of the same tough mettle as James R. Hoffa, who succeeded him as the unchallenged head of the teamsters, Mr. Beck was convicted in 1959 of Federal income-tax evasion and state embezzlement charges for stealing $1,900 from the sale of a union-owned Cadillac. He served 30 months in prison before being paroled in 1964.
        "A certain number of people will say labor leaders are crooks," he said in 1986, when he was 92. "They'll say it more about the teamsters because we are the largest union in the world." Pardoned by Ford
        After his release, Mr. Beck won a full pardon in 1975 from President Gerald R. Ford and was warmly received every time he appeared at teamster conventions and union halls. Mr. Beck, a millionaire, lived comfortably on a $50,000-a-year teamster pension and on income from real estate investments. Despite his wealth, he lived quietly in the basement of a house he built for his mother and sister 20 years ago.
        It was before the Senate committee hearing conducted in 1957 by Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas and masterminded, in part, by Robert F. Kennedy, the committee's chief counsel, that Mr. Beck thundered into public notice.
        During two days of testimony, Mr. Beck was asked whether he took $322,000 from the union treasury. He refused to answer, invoking the Fifth Amendment time and time again. Fixing his questioners with an icy glare, Mr. Beck repeated in his raspy voice, "I refuse to give testimony against myself." He castigated Mr. Kennedy later as a "lot of bluff."
        But the hearings nevertheless cost Mr. Beck his teamster leadership and his entree to Presidents and prime ministers. He was succeeded by Mr. Hoffa, who would be imprisoned himself for 13 years and who disappeared mysteriously in 1975.
        Under Mr. Beck's leadership in the 1950's, the 1.6 million-member teamsters became what was generally regarded as the most powerful labor union in the country, but one that was continually plagued by accusations of mob-connected corruption and racketeering. But Mr. Beck succeeded in welding scores of autonomous and often feuding teamster locals into a union conglomerate that he said he patterned after big business.
        "Labor is business pure and simply, just like Boeing or Safeway," he said. "Running labor is strictly business."
        At the height of its power, the teamsters held what Mr. Beck would describe as a stranglehold on the American economy, controlling the distribution of virtually everything used by industry, business and consumers.
        Mr. Beck and other teamster leaders also made their members the best paid unionized workers in the country, something he never let them forget when he returned to speak to them in small union halls and vacation-spot conventions.
        "Some times it was rough and tough and bare knuckles and I'm proud of it," he told a room of retired teamsters when he was 89 years old.
        He also denied ever stealing from the union, asserting that his embezzlement conviction was the result of "bookkeeping errors."
        In fact he credits his imprisonment with saving his life, saying, "I figure I've got an extra 5 to 10 years to live because I went to prison," which he said dropped his weight from 211 pounds on a 5-foot-9-inch frame to a relatively slim 170 pounds. In recent years, he weighed only 144, still spry from daily workouts on a stationary bicycle. Joined Union in 1914
        Mr. Beck, who joined the union in 1914 when he was the driver of a laundry truck, was the penniless son of a carpet cleaner and a laundress. He would end up a rich man with a strong conservative bent.
        Mr. Beck worked his way up in the union by combining a shrewd sense of the American economy, a strong belief in the capitalist system and a conviction that a labor contract was as sacred as the Bible.
        Starting in the Northwest, Mr. Beck said later, his mission was to convince companies that it was better business for them to recognize him and his drivers than to fight them. He was no orator or fiery visionary, he admitted, just a plain man who could talk nonstop.
        While he was widely viewed as a tough talking union leader, he also was a great believer in polishing labor's image. Toward that end, he once asked the Ford Foundation to sponsor a program under which union agents would receive a college degree, with an emphasis on the humanities. Gunner in World War I
        Mr. Beck was born in Stockton, Calif., in 1894, and taken to Seattle when he was 4. He dropped out of school when he was 16 to help support his family. A Presbyterian, he never drank, smoked or gambled.
        In World War I, he served as a gunner on aviation patrols over the North Sea. He then returned to his laundry delivery job and was picked by the teamsters to help organize drivers. Part of his success was convincing employers and hotel owners to deal only with organized laundries, forcing other laundries to sign up with the union.
        Mr. Beck became the union's executive vice president in 1947. By the end of 1948, he was consolidating teamster labor power for a nationwide drive, dividing the union into 15 divisions that reflected 15 industrial areas. Even his critics conceded he was an organizational genius and a tireless leader who pushed the teamsters to the height of union power when he became president in 1952.
        Today, the Teamsters have 1.3 million members.
        In an interview in 1989, Mr. Beck said he had no idea what happened to Mr. Hoffa. "I don't know any more about it than the F.B.I., and they apparently don't know anything either," he said.
        He also defended the image of a union that has seen several of its leaders go to prison and many of its locals taken over by federally appointed monitors.
        "There is no truth in the world that the teamsters go hand-in-hand with gangsters," he said. "The only people I ever knew who were allegedly with the so-called gang were the business people we drove trucks for."
        Mr. Beck is survived by his son, Dave Jr., three nephews and one niece.
        Correction:  January 7, 1994, Friday
        An obituary on Dec. 28 about the former Teamsters Union leader Dave Beck misstated the amount of time served in prison by his successor, James R. Hoffa. It was 4 years 9 months 16 days of a 13-year sentence, which was commuted by President Richard M. Nixon in 1971.
      