
        Dr. Samuel Wolfe, professor emeritus at Columbia University's School of Public Health, an early advocate of Canada's national health insurance plan, and a proponent of better access to medical care for the poor, died last Friday in Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70.
        His family said he had had a long illness.
        Dr. Wolfe lived in Hackensack, N.J.  He was born in Canada and received his medical degree from the University of Toronto. He later became a member of a commission that pioneered univeral health coverage in Saskatchewan in the 1960's. That plan ultimately became the model for Canada's national plan.
        In the summer of 1962 he helped organize an airlift of 90 physicians from Britain to replace doctors who had struck against national health insurance. He was co-author of "Doctor's Strike; Medical Care and Conflict in Saskatchewan," which was published in 1967.
        In 1968 Dr. Wolfe helped to build and operate a large community health center in a poor section of Nashville. Six years later he headed a federally financed study that found that only 13 percent of poor families in the Nashville area were receiving adequate medical care for their diagnosed illnesses.
        In 1960 Dr. Wolfe received a Master of Public Health degree from Columbia.
        In 1975 he returned to Columbia University's School of Public Health and remained there until his retirement in 1991.
        As head of the school's Division of Health Aministration as well as the Public Health Association and the Coalition for a Rational Health Policy, Dr. Wolfe was a strong opponent of Mayor Edward I. Koch's efforts to close a number of municipal hospitals in 1979.
        Dr. Wolfe was an expert on municipal hospitals, serving on a task force created by Mayor Abraham D. Beame in 1976 that sought ways to cut the municipal hospitals' mounting deficits.
        Dr. Wolfe is survived his wife, Mary; three daughters, Ruth, of Edmonton, Alberta, Deborah Wilson of Toronto, and Naomi Marchand of Campbell River, British Columbia; a son, Lew, of Maplewood, N.J., and four grandsons.
      