
        Tibor de Nagy, a courtly Hungarian whose Manhattan art gallery introduced some of the most prominent American artists of the 1950's, died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer of the stomach, said his daughter, Dr. Marianne Buchenhorner of Manhattan.
        Mr. de Nagy was born in Debrecen, Hungary, on April 25, 1908. He was trained as an economist, and joined the National Bank of Hungary in Budapest at the age of 22. His interest in art began in childhood and was encouraged by his stepfather, a prominent judge who collected art and rare books.
        During World War II, Mr. de Nagy lost his art collection when his home in Budapest was destroyed. He spent the remaining war years in Poland, then returned to Budapest. He helped to re-establish the country's banking system, but in 1946 was arrested by the Soviet secret police. Soon after his release, he left Hungary; he came to the United States in 1948. First, a Failed Business
        Mr. de Nagy's professional involvement with art began in 1949, when he met John Bernard Myers, an art lover, writer and puppeteer with whom he started the Tibor de Nagy Marionette Company. Although the business failed, its admirers included Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline and Willem de Kooning, who encouraged the two men to open an art gallery. The next year, when Dwight Ripley, an English collector, agreed to pay the rent for six years, Mr. de Nagy opened a gallery on East 53d Street in Manhattan, with Mr. Myers as the director.
        Their timing was extremely good, because Abstract Expressionism was just putting New York on the international art map. Over the next two decades, Mr. de Nagy and Mr. Myers introduced many members of the generation that followed. The two men gave first solo shows to such figurative painters as Larry Rivers, Red Grooms, Fairfield Porter and Jane Freilicher, to such second-generation Abstract Expressionists as Grace Hartigan and Alfred Leslie and to nascent Color Field painters like Helen Frankenthaler and Kenneth Noland.
        At the same time, Tibor de Nagy Editions produced collaborations between the gallery painters and several poets of the New York School, in the process becoming the first publisher of the poems of Frank O'Hara, James Schuyler and John Ashbery. In subsequent years, the gallery, which moved to 41 West 57th Street in the late 1960's, also gave first shows to Rosemarie Castoro, Carl Andre and Jonathan Lasker. A Banking Job
        Upon becoming an American citizen in 1953, Mr. de Nagy took a job at Manufacturers Hanover Trust; he worked at the gallery in the evening, on lunch hours and on Saturdays. After he retired from the bank in 1970, and after Mr. Myers left to establish his own gallery, Mr. de Nagy devoted himself to his gallery. From 1973 until 1983, he was also a partner in the Watson/de Nagy Gallery in Houston.
        Andrew H. Arnot and Eric L. Brown, the current directors of the Tibor de Nagy Gallery, said they planned to continue the business.
        Mr. de Nagy's marriage to Agnes Axcel ended in divorce in 1946. He is survived by his daughter.
      