
        Rabbi Marshall T. Meyer, an articulate voice of American Jewish liberalism and spiritual leader of Congregation B'nai Jeshurun on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        After living many years in Argentina, where he was a forceful critic of the military dictatorship there, Rabbi Meyer took over a dwindling congregation of 80 families on West 88th Street, off West End Avenue. Founded in 1825, it is the oldest Ashkenazic Conservative congregation in the city.
        He became the catalyst of a remarkable revival at the synagogue, which now has several thousand congregants, including many professionals, academics and politicians who called him Marshall and live as far away as Westchester and New Jersey. It was not unusual for him to officiate for a thousand members at Friday-night services.
        A tall, burly, blunt-spoken man, Rabbi Meyer combined traditional religious services with social outreach. He reached out to Christians and Muslims, established a homeless shelter and offered meals to AIDS patients. True to his strong interfaith message, he moved services to a church two years ago when the synagogue's ceiling collapsed. Facing Death
        While the repairs continue -- the completion date is uncertain -- Congregation B'nai Jeshurun has met at St. Paul and St. Andrew United Methodist Church two blocks away on West End Avenue at 86th Street. A service will be held there for him this morning at 8.
        When told of his cancer early this month, Rabbi Meyer insisted on living as normally as possible. He entered the hospital on Dec. 6, a Monday, after officiating at services the Friday and Saturday before. According to Randy Banner, who is writing his biography, Rabbi Meyer told his wife, Naomi, from his hospital bed, "If I can't show my family and my congregation how to face death, what kind of rabbi am I?"
        He was a founder eight years ago of Tikkun, a journal created as a liberal alternative to conservative magazines like Commentary. Michael Lerner, editor of Tikkun, said yesterday that Rabbi Meyer "remained a major shaper of the intellectual direction" as the magazine became one of the most widely read Jewish periodicals in the country.
        He said Rabbi Meyer saw a problem with "the Jewish establishment and not with Jewish theology."
        "He challenged the Jewish establishment for its conservatism and insisted that social justice be at the center of religious consciousness," he added. He also said that Rabbi Meyer's congregation was a leading American supporter of the Israeli peace movement.
        Marshall Theodore Meyer was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Norwich, Conn. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1952, studied at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary and was ordained at Jewish Theological Seminary in 1958.
        A year later he went to Argentina, where he stayed for 25 years. He founded what is now the largest synagogue in Buenos Aires, along with Latin America's first rabbinical seminary, and became a thorn in the side of the military dictatorship that seized power in 1976. In a period when the Government killed or imprisoned thousands of people, he spoke up early and forcefully on behalf of "los desaparecidos," those who disappeared.
        He and his family were harassed and threatened, but Rabbi Meyer continued to counsel families and visited prisoners. One former prisoner, the newspaper editor Jacobo Timerman, dedicated his book "Prisoner Without a Name, Cell Without a Number" to "Marshall Meyer, a rabbi who brought comfort to Jewish, Christian and atheist prisoners in Argentine jails." Honored in Argentina
        After the election of Raul Alfonsin as Argentina's President in 1983, Rabbi Meyer served on a presidential commission that traced 9,000 people and collected 50,000 pages of testimony on the military regime's excesses. He also received the Order of the Liberator San Martin, Argentina's highest decoration for a noncitizen.
        In 1985, when the call came from New York, he was ready to return. He said he wanted "to kick up the sand" while he still had the energy. He quickly gained a reputation on the West Side as a maverick Conservative rabbi. Services often were less sermons than heated arguments among worshipers on issues at hand.
        "Judaism that's not involved in social action is a contradiction in terms," he told an interviewer in 1987. "We spent 2,000 years trying to get out of the ghetto, and now we want to climb back in?" He spread that message in many television appearances and lectured widely in this country and abroad.
        Besides his wife, Rabbi Meyer is survived by two daughters, Anita Meyer and Dr. Dodi Meyer, both of Manhattan; a son, Gabriel of Jaffa, Israel; a sister, Shirlee Meyers of Norwich, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      