
        Robert V. Roosa, who served as Under Secretary of the Treasury for monetary affairs from 1961 to 1964 and was a retired Wall Street investment banker, died on Thursday at the United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 75 and lived in Harrison, N.Y..
        The cause was prostate cancer, said a daughter, Meredith Inderfurth.
        During his career at the Treasury, Mr. Roosa was responsible for the management of the country's debt and for handling such problems as curbing the outflow of gold and dollars from the United States, as well as setting the interest rates for the offerings of Government securities.
        After his Government service, Mr. Roosa was for 26 years a general partner of Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, a private bank in Wall Street.
        During his career Mr. Roosa was widely regarded as a perceptive economist and financier, and Senator Paul H. Douglas described Mr. Roosa in 1962 as "probably the foremost authority on the technical operation of the money market in Government securities." 'Adjust Imbalances'
        Stating his philosophy of the relationship between government and the economy, Mr. Roosa said in 1961: "The Government's role is to help assure the functioning of the checks and balances in a market economy; it helps to adjust imbalances by taking action at the margins but it never dictates the composition of the whole nor does it actually operate many of the parts."
        Mr. Roosa was known in domestic and international banking circles as a financial expert even before his arrival at the Treasury at the start of the Kennedy Administration in 1961. For the previous 15 years he had been associated with the Federal Reserve Bank in New York, eventually serving as its vice president.
        After he left the Government Mr. Roosa continued to influence international finance as a general partner of Brown Brothers. For several decades he advocated better relations with both the Soviet Union and China, including giving the mainland Chinese membership in the United Nations.
        He served at various times as a director of American Express Bank Ltd. and the National Bureau of Economic Research, a trustee of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and a member of the Advisory Committee of the International Finance Corporation. In addition, he was a trustee or director of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Carnegie Hall Corporation, the Economic Club of New York, the Brookings Institution and the United Nations Association.
        Mr. Roosa was born in Marquette, Mich., in 1939 and graduated from the University of Michigan, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He was chosen for a Rhodes Scholarship, but the outbreak of World War II prevented him from going to England to accept it. Mr. Roosa earned a doctorate in economics from the University of Michigan, joined the Army as a private, served as an intelligence specialist in Europe and was discharged a captain in 1946.
        Mr. Roosa's wife of 47 years, the former Ruth AmEnde, died in October. He is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Cowie of Columbus, Ohio; two daughters, Mrs. Inderfurth of Arlington, Va., and Alison Cluff of Stevensville, Mont., and five grandchildren.
      