
        The Rev. Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, one of the most influential religious figures of his time, died on Friday afternoon at his estate in Pawling, N.Y. He had suffered a stroke earlier this month. He was 95.
        His wife of 63 years, Ruth, was at his bedside when he died.
        Dr. Peale helped create a spiritual tone in the postwar United States with sermons, broadcasts, newspaper columns and 41 books, especially his best-seller, "The Power of Positive Thinking," published in 1952.
        He told Presidents and business executives and millions of other people that a proper state of mind, induced by simple prayer, could produce spiritual and material success on earth, which he demonstrated by becoming a wealthy man. Many in a country recovering from the Depression and a world war were more than ready to follow Dr. Peale's thinking.
        Dr. Peale never lacked for critics, who accused him of simplifying Christianity by avoiding deeper confrontations with sin and guilt, yet he had millions of supporters who said he had brought them religious contentment. A 'Benign Owl'
        Short and pudgy (one writer said he resembled a "benign owl"), Dr. Peale was fidgety before delivering a sermon. But he seemed to grow in stature when exhorting people to feel better about themselves.
        He often admitted that his main target for these spiritual pep rallies was himself, that "even as recently as last night" he had found himself lacking in wisdom, courage or grace. Yet, he said, a few simple prayers had given him the energy to urge others onward.
        When he became pastor of the Marble Collegiate Church on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan in 1932, Dr. Peale became one of the first American clergymen to bring psychiatric practices into religion, preparing the way for thousands of professional, religious-based counselors. His later emphasis on "positive thinking" predated the current flood of self-help books and movements.
        He was a favorite of wealthy business people, a critic of protesters who opposed the Vietnam War, an opponent of John F. Kennedy in 1960 for fear of a Vatican influence in the White House, and a supporter of his friend and congregant, Richard M. Nixon, throughout the Watergate period.
        Well into his 80's, Dr. Peale was still preaching nearly every Sunday at the 11:15 A.M. service at the handsome 1854 church at Fifth Avenue and 29th Street until he retired as senior minister in 1984. When interviewed in 1978, Dr. Peale had dozens of projects and remained a zestful, healthy preacher.
        "Many ministers said my book was oversimplified and wasn't couched in the correct ecclesiastical language," he said in discussing "The Power of Positive Thinking" during the interview. "That was true. It was written in simple language because I was trying to reach people who were not in church."
        Looking back, Dr. Peale said he wished he could go back through his books and change some of his views, particularly to strengthen the Christian view of repentance.
        "Lives are being destroyed by sin," he said in 1978. "The need is to get sin out and bring the person to the point where he can know something better. In 1952 sin was generally recognized, and I didn't have to accentuate it. But I'm basically a very traditional Christian, and a sense of guilt is important. Too much guilt is unhealthy, though."
        Dr. Peale's roots were in the true-believer, heartland Christianity of Bowersville, Ohio, where he was born on May 31, 1898. His father, Charles Clifford Peale, a former physician, was a Methodist minister who served several congregations in southern Ohio. Beyond Self-Doubt
        Dr. Peale would often recall being labeled "a weak willy-nilly" by a high school teacher in Bellefontaine, Ohio. He had reacted with anger until, he said, he realized the teacher was right. Throughout his career, he would readily admit he had to push himself beyond his self-doubt.
        The idea of following his father into the ministry solidified for the young man one Sunday morning when he saw his father issue a call for sinners to come forth and be saved. The town drunkard lumbered forward, knelt at the altar and prayed to be saved from his sins, and did indeed give up drinking after that.
        After graduation from Ohio Wesleyan University, the younger Peale enrolled at the Boston University School of Theology. In his first summer back home, he was asked to replace an ailing pastor one Sunday, and wrote a sermon in his divinity school style.
        "My advice would be to take it out back and burn it," said his father, telling his son "that the way to the human heart is through simplicity."
        The son followed his father's advice and years later recalled the good reception he had received, the "look of gratitude and goodness that appears when Jesus Christ is talked about and related to the simplicities of human lives."
        To earn money, the young man spent a year as a reporter for The Morning Republican in Findlay, Ohio, and later worked at The Detroit Journal before he decided to leave journalism and concentrate on the ministry. In 1922 he was ordained in the Methodist Episcopal Church and received his first assignment in Berkeley, R.I. In 1924 he moved to a small congregation in Brooklyn, where he built a new church and increased the membership from 40 to 900 in one year.
        In 1927 he went to the University Methodist Church in Syracuse, where he was one of the first clergymen in the United States to preach on his own radio program. In 1932 he was called to the Marble Collegiate Church, said to be the oldest continuous Protestant congregation in the country, dating to 1628.
        To assume the pastorate at Marble Collegiate, Dr. Peale had to switch his denomination from Methodist to the Reformed Church in America, a transfer made smoothly with no apparent problem for him. Advice From Wife
        Only 200 people came out for his first service, but his spirited sermons soon began attracting thousands of New Yorkers.
        As a spiritual counselor, Dr. Peale often recounted, he had felt himself unprepared for the complex problems of his congregants, particularly after the stock market crash of 1929.
        However, he received helpful advice from his wife, the former Loretta Ruth Stafford, whom he married on June 20, 1930. Mrs. Peale (who prefers to be called by her middle name, Ruth) urged her husband to consult his physician, Dr. Clarence W. Lieb, about finding a psychiatrist who could help parish members.
        Dr. Peale was introduced to Dr. Smiley Blanton, a psychiatrist who had been trained in Vienna by Freud. Years later Dr. Peale would recall Dr. Blanton asking him: "Do you believe in the power of prayer? I've been praying for years that some minister would see that psychiatry and religion not only might but should work together. And now here you are."
        The two men approached people from their separate training, creating a "religion-psychiatric clinic" in the basement of the church. In 1951 the service was expanded into the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry, a nonprofit group serving hundreds of patients.
        Dr. Peale often described "this obsession of mine to reach as many people as I could with the message of Jesus Christ." This "obsession" was served by his ministry on the radio, which after his initial programs from Syracuse was started in New York City in 1935. Soon he was appearing every week on "The Art of Living," sponsored by the National Council of Churches, a program that eventually reached an estimated 5 million listeners on the NBC network.
        What Dr. Peale was saying in his first decade in New York was pretty much the same message that made him famous in the 1950's. In his first book, "The Art of Living," published by Abingdon in 1937, he wrote that "applied Christianity helps people to tap reservoirs of power within themselves."
        His second book, "You Can Win" (Abingdon, 1939), followed similar thinking, as shown by chapter titles such as "The Art of Self-Mastery," "God and You Are Unconquerable" and "Overcoming the Tension of Modern Life." Postw-War Sales
        While his philosophy was already apparent, Dr. Peale had not yet begun advising people how to apply it to their lives. His books did not begin to sell well until after World War II, when, for the first time in nearly two decades, Americans had some leeway to question what they believed and how they should live.
        In 1948 Dr. Peale issued his first best-seller, "A Guide for Confident Living" (Prentice-Hall), which told how religion could combat problems. But his real impact was yet to come. In 1951 he wrote another book, but an editor suggested revisions, so Dr. Peale kept the book in a desk drawer until Ruth Peale sent it to another editor without her husband's knowledge.
        The book, "The Power of Positive Thinking," remained on the list of best-sellers for 186 weeks, ranking it -- behind the Bible -- as one of the highest-selling spiritual books in history.
        The book repeated many concepts from earlier books, but this time the public could not get enough of such chapters as "I Don't Believe in Defeat," "How to Get People to Like You" and "Expect the Best and Get It."
        Each chapter contained "confidence-concepts," "faith attitudes" and "energy-producing thoughts" or "spirit-lifters." Dr. Peale frequently broke his wisdom into "10 simple, workable rules" or "eight practical formulas" or "seven simple steps."
        A key sentence was: "The secret of a better and more successful life is to cast out those old dead unhealthy thoughts."
        At another point he wrote: "To make your mind healthy, you must feed it nourishing, wholesome thoughts."
        As sales of the book continued to climb, criticism of Dr. Peale began to mount. In an essay entitled "Some Negative Thinking About Norman Vincent Peale," a theologian from Yale University, William Lee Miller, wrote that Dr. Peale's books had become "worse" because "the rhetoric of the sermon has been replaced by the short, punchy sentences of the advertisement."
        Dr. Miller also wrote: "Dr. Peale's idea and his ability to present it might enable him to be popular in any place at any time, but it seems to work especially well in America now. The importance of studying Dr. Peale lies in what his enormous success means about our present situation in this country." A TV Program
        The book made Dr. Peale one of America's most public figures. From 1952 through 1968, he and his wife appeared on a weekly television program, "What's Your Trouble?," that attracted 5,000 letters a week. He wrote a column called "Confident Living," which at one point appeared in more than 200 newspapers.
        His efforts made him a wealthy man, although the degree of his wealth remains unclear despite attempts over the years by biographers and news organizations to find out specifics.
        He was the author of 46 books, the last being "This Incredible Century," published in 1991, having sales of nearly 20 million copies and published in 41 languages. Dr. Peale served on several Presidential committees and was awarded several honorary degrees. In addition to receiving Freedom Foundation awards in 1952 and 1955, he was given the Horatio Alger Award in 1952 and was voted "Clergyman of the Year" by the Religious Foundation of America in 1964. He was also a 33d-degree Mason.
        Although Dr. Peale often said ministers should stay out of politics, he seemed to support Republicans regularly against Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In 1952 Dr. Peale endorsed the Eisenhower-Nixon ticket, saying moral issues had dictated that he take a stand.
        This prompted Adlai E. Stevenson, the Democratic candidate, to make this evaluation of evangelists: "I find Paul appealing and Peale appalling."
        According to Dr. Peale, general criticism of him made him decide to resign from his Marble Collegiate pastorate in 1955 while visiting his ailing father. But the senior Mr. Peale sensed his son's unspoken anguish and sent a deathbed message for his son to continue.
        Seen as a conservative force, Dr. Peale sometimes surprised people with his stands. He served four terms as president of the Council of Churches of the City of New York, advocating decentralization of schools when it was a bitter issue in the city.
        In 1963, a movie, "One Man's Way," told the story of Dr. Peale's life in a more or less accurate way.
        Although still a vast commercial success in the 1960's, Dr. Peale's public power was diminished with the election of President John F. Kennedy, whom he had opposed, citing fear of Vatican interference. During the 1960 Presidential campaign, Dr. Peale attended several meetings with other prominent Protestant clergyman to rally concern about the possibility of a Roman Catholic in the White House.
        When the sessions were disclosed, other religious leaders, including Reinhold Niebuhr and Rabbi Maurice N. Eisendrath, accused Dr. Peale and the others of "blind prejudice."
        Dr. Peale was quoted as saying at that time: "Faced with the election of a Catholic, our culture is at stake," but he was later to withdraw this opinion, although he still clearly favored Richard M. Nixon in the election.
        In 1962 Mr. Nixon lost the California gubernatorial election and moved to New York to practice law. Mr. Nixon had first worshiped at Marble Collegiate while serving in the Navy during the war, and he now took his family to the church, although he was still nominally a member of a Quaker congregation in California. Some political analysts have suggested that Mr. Nixon gained the strength for his 1968 comeback from listening to Dr. Peale's familiar message about overcoming doubts.
        After Mr. Nixon's election, Dr. Peale officiated at the wedding of David Eisenhower and Julie Nixon at Marble Collegiate on Dec. 22, 1968. In 1969 President Nixon sent Dr. Peale as a special envoy to Vietnam, and the minister remained a family friend during the Watergate investigations.
        Throughout his eighth decade, Dr. Peale remained an active co-pastor at Marble Collegiate, dividing his time between a Fifth Avenue apartment and his estate in Pawling. His friends and neighbors included Lowell Thomas and Thomas E. Dewey, whom he and Mrs. Peale occasionally entertained, generally serving grape juice.
        The Peales had three children: Margaret Ann (Mrs. Paul F. Everett), the wife of a Presbyterian minister who was a leader of a church group called the "Pittsburgh Experiment" in Pennsylvania; John Stafford of Farmville, Va., a professor at Longwood College in Virginia, and Elizabeth Ruth (Mrs. John M. Allen) of Pawling, whose husband is a retired executive of Reader's Digest and now is the president of the board of trustees of the Peale Center, and eight grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be at 11 A.M. Wednesday at Marble Collegiate Church.
        Correction:  December 26, 1993, Sunday
        An obituary of the Rev. Dr. Norman Vincent Peale on Dec. 26 misidentified his last published book. It was "Bible Power for Successful Living," edited by Donald T. Kauffman, who assisted in the writing; it was not "This Incredible Century." The obituary also misstated the total sales of "This Incredible Century." The number was 74,373 through December -- not nearly 20 million, which is the figure for "The Power of Positive Thinking." And the obituary misstated the number of languages in which "This Incredible Century" has been published. It has come out only in English, not in 41 languages.
      