
        Steve Nelson, the defendant in a case that led to a Supreme Court ruling in 1956 that invalidated state sedition laws, died on Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Nelson, who was a member of the Communist Party at the time of the ruling, was 90 and lived in Truro, Mass.
        The cause was complications after aorta surgery, his family said.
        Mr. Nelson quit the Communist Party in 1957, said a friend, William Susman. Mr. Nelson's son, Robert, said his father had quit while he was a member of the United States Communist Party's national committee and after Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, denounced the horrors under Stalin's rule.
        Mr. Nelson served on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War in 1937 and in later years became prominent in activities of American veterans of the war. Justices' Ruling
        In 1956, the Supreme Court ruled that Mr. Nelson, who had been working as a party official in Pennsylvania, had been wrongfully convicted under a Pennsylvania subversion law. The Supreme Court held that the Federal legislation, the Smith Act of 1940, which made it a crime to advocate the overthrow of the Government by violence, had invalidated all similar state laws.
        The Supreme Court ruling in the case, Pennsylvania v. Nelson, was important because until then there had been a substantial number of state prosecutions of Communists and other radicals under state laws.
        The author of the Smith Act, Representative Howard W. Smith, Democrat of Virginia, tried unsuccessfully for years to get legislation passed that would overrule the Supreme Court decision in Pennsylvania v. Nelson by having Congress affirm that it did not intend to invalidate state legislation on the subject.
        In 1956, the Supreme Court also granted Mr. Nelson a new trial in another case, in which he and four others had been convicted of conspiracy to violate the Smith Act.
        Chief Justice Earl Warren said later that the Supreme Court had granted a new trial because there had been tainted testimony in the case. "The dignity of the United States Government will not permit the conviction of any person on tainted testimony," he said. In 1957, the Government dropped its effort to retry Mr. Nelson under the Smith Act.
        Mr. Nelson was born in Croatia. His family surname was Mesaros, sometimes spelled Mesarosh, and he adopted the name Nelson in the United States, where he came as a teen-ager and worked at first as a carpenter in Pittsburgh.
        He joined the Communist Party in the late 1920's, Mr. Susman said, and went on to hold various party posts around the United States.
        Mr. Nelson's wife, Margaret, died in 1986.
        In addition to his son, of Pasadena, Calif., he is survived by a daughter, Josephine Yurek of New Rochelle, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held at 1:45 P.M. on Friday at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street in Manhattan.
      