
        Dr. Wolfgang Paul, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1989 for his work in isolating ions and electrons and led Germany's prestigious Alexander von Humboldt Foundation for 10 years, died Monday night at his home here. He was 80.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Doris.
        Dr. Paul had been associated since 1952 with the University of Bonn, where he was director and a leading force in the Physics Institute.
        The award of the Nobel Prize came as a surprise, since he had done most of the work that won it in the 1950's and 1960's. He shared the prize with Dr. Hans G. Dehmelt of the University of Washington and Dr. Norman F. Ramsey of Harvard University. A Landmark Experiment
        Dr. Paul was cited for his pioneering work in developing a method of isolating ions and electrons from outside influences like temperature or pressure, allowing scientists to measure them with precision.
        The "Paul trap" that made this possible also led to such practical applications as the development of the cesium clock, used for precise measuring of time. "This was developed into a standard method of mass separation, now widely used," the Nobel committee said.
        In a landmark experiment in 1978, Dr. Paul and his colleagues trapped neutrons in a magnetic storage ring, becoming the first to confine neutral particles electromagnetically. Lectures in the U.S.
        Wolfgang Paul was born in Lorenzkirch, near Riesa in eastern Germany in 1913. He studied physics and engineering before World War II at the Technical University in Munich, obtaining a doctoral degree in physics and engineering at the Technical University in Berlin in 1939.
        There, he became a student of Hans Kopfermann, whom he followed to Kiel and later to the University of Gottingen in 1942, completing his academic qualifications at the physics institute there in 1944.
        Their work on particle physics interested the authorities of Nazi Germany, who wanted German scientists to produce a nuclear weapon before their enemies did. After the war, Professor Paul was invited to the United States, where he gave guest lectures at Harvard and the University of Chicago.
        In 1957, Professor Paul joined a group of 18 noted German nuclear physicists, including Werner K. Heisenberg, who publicly opposed nuclear weapons for the German military forces that had just been re-established.
        Professor Paul also figured importantly in the development of the European Center for Nuclear Research in Geneva. Many Honorary Degrees
        He also built up the German nuclear research center in Julich, near Aachen, and the German electron synchrotron in Hamburg. When vandals broke into one of these accelerators in Bonn in the early years and left biblical quotations about the wrath of God scattered about the machinery, he took them home and displayed them for years in his apartment.
        His scientific work led to numerous honorary degrees. The German Government awarded him the great service medal with star in 1981, and he was president of the Humboldt Foundation, which organizes international academic exchanges from 1979 to 1989.
        After the death of his first wife, Liselotte, Professor Paul remarried. In addition to his wife, he is survived by 2 daughters, 2 sons and 11 grandchildren.
      