
        Louis R. W. Soutendijk, a retired Wall Street banker and former financial counselor to the Dutch Embassy in Washington, died on Dec. 21 in Hale Hospital in Haverhill, Mass. He was 83 and had lived in Haverhill since moving from Larchmont, N.Y., about five years ago.
        The cause was pneumonia following complications from a stroke, his family said.
        A native of Hoogwoud in the Netherlands, Mr. Soutendijk earned a doctorate at the Rotterdam School of Economics and worked as an economist before World War II.
        In the war, he served as an officer in the Dutch Royal Guard and played a role in the underground during the German occupation. Afterward, he was a special envoy to the Allied Council in Germany with a mission to recover gold taken by the Germans from the Dutch Central Bank.
        He then was sent to Washington as the ranking financial officer of the Embassy. He helped arrange loans from the World Bank and took part in planning the reconstruction of Europe.
        He left government service in 1959 to become a manager of Brown Brothers Harriman & Company in New York, responsible for helping corporate clients with their overseas investments. He retired from the firm about 20 years ago.
        Mr. Soutendijk was influential in America's resident Dutch community as an officer of the Netherlands Chamber of Commerce in the United States, which he served as president in the 1960's. After leaving Brown Brothers, he still worked as New York representative of NMB Bank of the Netherlands and Privatbank of Denmark.
        Mr. Soutendijk is survived by three sons, Dirk of Mountain Lake, N.J., Bart of Grapevine, Texas, and Huibert of Bronxville, N.Y.; two daughters, Daphne Deuplisea of Merrimac, Mass., and Hermine Malde of London, and nine grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 30, 1993, Thursday
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of Louis Soutendijk, a Dutch economist and diplomat, was published in error. It showed Robert Marjolin, an official of the European Economic Community, during a meeting with Mr. Soutendijk in 1964.
      