
        George Keble Hirst, a scientist who discovered a way to see the footprints of viruses, died on Saturday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Palo Alto.
        He died of natural causes, his son Robert said.
        More than 50 years ago, working when even the rudiments of molecular biology were unknown, Dr. Hirst discovered a way to detect influenza viruses in blood. He was a member of the Rockefeller Foundation's International Health Division studying influenza, including its prevention by vaccination, when in 1941 and 1942 he found that red blood cells clump together when mixed with influenza viruses.
        He used that observation to develop a method, the hemagglutination assay, that allowed him to estimate the amount of virus present in a sample.
        The hemagglutination assay also allowed researchers to determine how much antibody was in a person's serum. They would mix the serum with the viruses. Any antibodies present would bind to viruses and prevent the hemagglutination reaction that would otherwise take place.
        Besides discovering the hemagglutination assay, Dr. Hirst studied the basic biology of viruses. Dr. Harry Rubin, a professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley, said Dr. Hirst was "one of the first, if not the first, to start doing serious work on the genetics of animal viruses" in the late 1940's and 1950's.
        Dr. Hirst, along with Dr. Salvador E. Luria and Dr. Lindsay Black, founded the journal Virology in 1955. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1966 and to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1975. From 1956 to 1980 he was director of the Public Health Research Institute in New York City.
        He was a longtime resident of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., but was born in Eau Claire, Wis. He attended Hobart College in Geneva, N.Y., before receiving a bachelor's degree from Yale University, where he also received a medical degree in 1933. His wife, the former Charlotte Hart, whom he married in 1937, died in 1990.
        Besides his son Robert, of Oakland, Calif., Dr. Hirst is survived by three other sons, John, of Rockville Centre, L. I., James, of Vienna, Va., and Thomas, of Morgan Hill, Calif.; a daughter, Margaret Northrop of Campbell, Calif.; two sisters, Virginia Lesser of East Hampton, L. I., and Betty Hostetter of Green Valley, Ariz., and 11 grandchildren.
      