
        Justice Ivan Warner of the State Supreme Court in the Bronx died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 74 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Justice Warner came up the hard way, starting as a high-school dropout. He worked his way up through college, law school and the Bronx County Democratic organization to gain election to the State Assembly. He served in the State Senate before his 25 years on the Bronx bench.
        At many stages, he was the first black, or one among very few. He was one of the black leaders battling to be heard in the inner councils of the Democratic Party and to increase blacks' representation at all levels of public life. 'An Example for All People'
        At his death he was the senior judge on the Bronx Supreme Court, sitting longer than any of his peers. Failing health had kept him from his chambers since October, but according to the Bronx Administrative Judge, Burton B. Roberts, he had been recertified for another two-year term through 1995.
        Justice Warner, he said, was someone who tried the "bread-and-butter" cases affecting the safety and well-being of the community.
        "His life, his career provide an example for all people, regardless of their race, creed or sex, who want to lead a good and productive life," Justice Roberts said. "He has spent most of his adult life working diligently in the service of the people of Bronx County and the community of New York City. The people of the Bronx are all the better for having been served by him."
        Justice Warner was born in Manhattan, the son of immigrants from the island of St. Kitts in the Caribbean. Although he did well in a commercial course, he dropped out of high school.
        "In those years you didn't see too much opportunity in the surroundings," he recalled much later. "It was not like today: You saw no Negro judges, no Negro lawyers, no Negroes in the major leagues."
        He worked as a clerk-stenographer for the city's Rent Commission. Having moved to the Bronx, he joined the Jackson Democratic Club and awakened to his need for education. He earned a high-school diploma at night. Night School, Then Law School
        In 1949 he became an assistant to Representative Isidore Dollinger, who encouraged him to continue with night courses at American University in Washington. Finally he studied law at Brooklyn Law School and passed the bar exam in 1955. Three years later he took his seat in the State Assembly.
        He was a past president of the New York City Justices Association. He was also a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, where his funeral is scheduled for 11 A.M. Monday.
        Justice Warner is survived by his wife, Augustine Wood Warner; a son, Sylvester, of New Rochelle; a sister, Dorothy Jones of the Bronx, and six grandchildren.
      