
        Andrei SedychAndrei Sedych, a prominent Russian-American journalist who was the editor in chief of Novoye Russkoye Slovo in New York for 15 years and a leader in Russian emigre society here, died yesterday in Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Sedych, who lived in Manhattan, had suffered from Alzheimer's disease, said Lawrence Weinberg, publisher of the newspaper.
        Mr. Sedych, who emigrated to this country after World War II, was an author and freelance writer in Manhattan until he joined the staff of the newspaper full time in 1967, becoming its editor in chief in 1973.
        The newspaper, whose name in English means New Russian World, was founded in 1910 and describes itself as the oldest daily Russian newspaper in the world, predating Pravda and Izvestia. It has a circulation of 64,000, including subscribers in many parts of the former Soviet Union.
        Mr. Sedych recalled in an interview that in 1980 he received a letter of complaint from a reader who hadn't seen a copy in recent weeks. Mr. Sedych said proudly that the letter had been written by Andrei Sakharov, the Soviet dissident.
        During his editorship Mr. Sedych broadened the newspaper's coverage from news of Russian residents in New York and stories written by Russians to include articles such as how to find a lawyer and the plights of people in Russia who had been denied exit visas.
        Mr. Sedych, who was a friend of many Russian writers in the United States and Europe, was a member of the Russian Writers Club at the Russian Institute of Columbia University and was a president of the Russian Literary Fund, which helped needy artists.
        He was the author of several books, including "This Land of Israel," which was published in the United States by Macmillan in 1967.
        Mr. Sedych was born Jacques Zwidak, near Odessa, on the Black Sea. In 1921 he moved to Paris, where he worked as a journalist and eventually became a contributor to Novoye Russkoye Slovo. He emigrated to New York in 1944 and resumed work as a contributor, joining the staff in 1967. He was the owner of the newspaper from 1973 until 1981, when he went into partnership with Mr. Weinberg. Mr. Sedych retired in 1988.
        Correction:  January 11, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary on Jan. 9 about Andrei Sedych, a Russian-American journalist who edited the New York daily newspaper Novoye Ruskoye Slovo, mistranslated its name. It is New Russian Word, not World.
      