
        Luis Quero Chiesa, a business and cultural leader born in Puerto Rico who devoted most of his life to political and educational matters in New York City, died on Tuesday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said his grandson, David Nappa.
        Mr. Quero Chiesa was a member of the city's Board of Higher Education for 10 years. He was its president from 1971 to 1973, when tax support for public colleges, open enrollment of students and bilingual education provoked fierce disputes in New York, Albany and Washington.
        In 1964 Mr. Quero Chiesa became the first Puerto Rican-born member of the board, now the Board of Trustees, the governing body for the City University of New York, with 21 campuses and more than 200,000 students.
        During his tenure he developed a reputation as a moderate who put the welfare of the students ahead of the politics that embroiled the campuses, administrators and faculties.
        He was a powerful advocate of open enrollment, and he felt bilingual education should be used for the intensive teaching of English to help "the non-English-speaking to get into the mainstream of American life as soon as possible," as he put it.
        Mr. Quero Chiesa was an oddity: an administrator who never went to college but was, as he liked to put it, "a graduate of the public libraries and museums of New York City."
        Mr. Quero Chiesa also served as the president of the Institute of Puerto Rico, a New York group that, among other things, provided college scholarships for Hispanic students.
        He was a member of the city's Office of Cultural Affairs, and advised the Democratic National Committee on Hispanic issues. He was a delegate to several of the committee's national conventions.
        A native of Ponce, P.R., Mr. Quero Chiesa came to New York as a teen-ager in 1929. He graduated from the Parsons School of Design. He later became a founder and the senior vice president for art of Roy Blumenthal International Associates, a public relations agency in Manhattan. He was also a member of Consolidated Edison's board for eight years.
        For years Mr. Quero Chiesa lived in Flushing, Queens. He moved to Stamford on his retirement eight years ago.
        Mr. Quero Chiesa is survived by his wife of 60 years, Filo; two daughters, Dr. Adoree Cuello of Westport, Conn., and Aimee Nappa of Franklin Lakes, N.J.; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      