
        Richard R. Falk, a legendary Broadway publicist who ballyhooed anything and everything in show business putting quotes in the mouths of 10,000 clients, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 81.
        He had suffered recently from lymphoma, said his son-in-law, Edward C. Wallace.
        From his office overlooking Times Square Mr. Falk tracked the great and not-so-great in his 50-year career, representing virtually every act from performing fleas to opera sopranos.
        His flamboyant mustache and outlandish publicity stunts earned Mr. Falk a reputation as the last of the old-time press agents and he was once dubbed the Mayor of 42d Street by Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
        Virtually no zany idea that sprang into Mr. Falk's nimble brain went unfulfilled and his chutzpah tickled the funny bones of New Yorkers who recognized true comic genius in his outlandish antics.
        Promoting a client named the Great Herman, a trained flea that had chosen New York as the city to kick off a nationwide personal appearance tour, Mr. Falk checked him into the Waldorf-Astoria. To insure a warm civic welcome for, as Mr. Falk put it, "the stage-struck siphonaptera," the publicist just had to call in the press. Over 10,000 Clients
        When Argentina tried to seize the Falkland Islands by force in 1983, Mr. Falk maintained that he alone was the owner by birthright since he was the last surviving descendant of Viscount Falkland, who colonized the bleak specks in the South Atlantic in 1690. Mr. Falk claimed a poll of islanders backed his claim, which he pursued in the United Nations, unsuccessfully.
        Over the years Mr. Falk represented, by his own count, many more than 10,000 clients including Barbra Streisand, Norman Mailer, Jayne Mansfield, Salvador Dali and Sonja Henie as well as such Broadway hopefuls as Sugar Cane and Hope Diamond.
        "You could call it a demonic frenzy," he said of his promotional style, which was used for celebrities, shows, restaurants and nightclubs. Born in Newark, Mr. Falk held degrees from the New School and Syracuse University, and for a brief time was an actor until he found his true calling.
        Mr. Falk is survived by his two daughters, Pamela Falk of Manhattan and Francine Ross of Olympia Fields, Ill. His former wife is Corinne Falk.
        Several years ago he coined his epitaph: "Famed Flack Who Exploited and Promoted Stars and Shows Finally Gets His Reward."
      