
        Dr. Lee Alvin DuBridge, president emeritus of the California Institute of Technology, died on Sunday at a retirement center in Duarte, Calif. He was 92 and formerly lived in Pasadena.
        The cause was pneumonia, the institute said.
        Dr. DuBridge was an internationally known physicist who helped develop radar in World War II. He headed Caltech from 1946 until 1969, when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him White House science adviser. He retired from that position 18 months later but remained a member of the President's Science Advisory Committee.
        He had first been named to that committee by President Harry S. Truman in 1951, when it was new. The following year, President Dwight D. Eisenhower made him chairman, a position he held until 1958, when the job became a full-time position.
        A gentle, unflappable man, Dr. DuBridge arrived at Caltech as it was veering away from the secret military projects of the World War II era and returning to fundamental science. He was faced with crowded classrooms, insufficient housing and overtaxed buildings. Oversaw Rapid Growth
        Under his guidance, the campus grew to 90 acres from 30, its endowment to more than $100 million from $17 million, and the faculty to 550 members from 260. The number of buildings increased to 64 from 20 and the budget to $30 million from $8 million. Two major events during his tenure were the dedication of the 200-inch Hale Telescope on Palomar Mountain and the opening of Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
        A native of Terre Haute, Ind., Dr. DuBridge graduated from Cornell College in Mount Vernon, Iowa, and received his advanced degrees at the University of Wisconsin, where he began his academic career as an instructor. From 1934 to 1946 he was a professor of physics at the University of Rochester and supervised the construction there of a cyclotron that produced the highest energy proton beam at the time.
        On leave of absence from Rochester, he headed the radiation laboratory established at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology by the National Defense Research Committee. The purpose of the laboratory was to develop radar for the military, in the type of collaboration between science and the Government that set the pattern for the Manhattan Project, which later developed the atomic bomb. Kept Allies Ahead in Radar
        The laboratory played a decisive role in keeping the Allies ahead in radar technology in World War II and established Dr. DuBridge's credentials as an administrator.
        While he headed Caltech, he was a founder of the local public television station and helped establish the California Museum of Science and Industry. He was one of the first recipients of the Vannevar Bush Award from the National Science Foundation in 1982.
        Dr. DuBridge is survived by his wife, Arrola Bush Cole DuBridge; a daughter, Barbara MacLeod of Simi Valley, Calif.; a son, Richard A., of Saratoga, Calif.; a brother, Fred, of Sunnyvale, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Mrs. Patrick J. Rega of Scituate, Mass.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandsons.
      