
        Dr. Stephen Mark Kritsick, a veterinarian who was a genial television commentator on pet care, died on Sunday at his parents' home in Lexington, Mass. He was 42 and had homes in Hudson, N.Y., and Nantucket, Mass.
        The cause was AIDS-related lymphoma, his family said.
        Dr. Kritsick's widest audience was on ABC-TV, where, starting in 1986, he regularly appeared on "Good Morning America," the morning news-and-talk program. Last October, looking gaunt and tired, he told his television audience that he had AIDS.
        His last appearance on the program was on Dec. 24, when he reflected on his life, profession, friends and colleagues.  Yesterday, "Good Morning America" showed clips of him and excerpts from letters of support he received from viewers. Humane Society Spokesman
        A native of Cambridge, Mass., he graduated from Michigan State University, where he also earned his degree in veterinary medicine. He worked in the emergency room of the Animal Medical Center in Manhattan from 1978 to 1982, when he became associated with the Park East Animal Hospital.
        Dr. Kritsick later worked at the Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital of the A.S.P.C.A. in Manhattan and at the Bide-a-Wee Home Association. Most recently he was staff veterinarian and spokesman for the Humane Society of the United States in Washington.
        Over the years he tended to the pets of a variety of celebrities. His broadcast experience dated to 1978, when he started a nine-year stint as the veterinarian for "Romper Room," a children's show on WOR-TV. Before "Good Morning America" he also appeared regularly on Cable News Network.
        He was the author of two books, "Dr. Kritsick's Tender Loving Cat Care" (1987), and "Creature Comforts: The Adventures of a City Vet" (1983, with Patti Goldstein). He also wrote columns and articles for newspapers and magazines.
        Besides his parents, Harriet and Leo, Dr. Kritsick is survived by two sisters, Marcy Lomen of Westford, Mass., and Charlotte Bahn of Worcester, Mass., and his companion, Art Campbell.
      