
        Rabbi Eugene J. Lipman, a national leader of Reform Judaism and a past president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, died yesterday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. Dr. Lipman, a prominent figure in social causes, was 74 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was brain cancer, his family said.
        Rabbi Lipman was director of the Commission on Social Action of Reform Judaism, and past president of the National Capital Area Chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union. He was rabbi emeritus of Temple Sinai in Washington.
        His social and political work spanned a half century. After the Holocaust, he helped resettle thousands of survivors in Palestine and the United States. He marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the South and lent his support to many liberal Jewish, secular and Zionist organizations. Goals of Justice and Equality
        One of his chief concerns as director of the Joint Commission on Social Action was to have Reform congregations work for social justice and universal equality. The commission represented the Union of Hebrew Congregations and the Central Conference of American Rabbis. Its mission was to put the "social principles of Judaism to work."
        Rabbi Lipman, who was born in Pittsburgh, graduated from the University of Cincinnati and was ordained in 1943 at Hebrew Union College. He was commissioned as an Army chaplain the next year.
        He also left his mark as president and a member of the Executive Committee of the Washington Area Interfaith Conference, of which he was a founder. He took a special interest in the food bank he organized for it and in Garden Resources, a program to foster food production in blighted neighborhoods.
        He wrote several books and sat on numerous boards and commissions. In 1975 he became the first president of the local chapter of the civil liberties union who was not a lawyer. He retired from Temple Sinai in 1986 but still served as president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis from 1987 to 1989.
        Rabbi Lipman is survived by his wife of 50 years, Esther Marcuson Lipman; two sons, Prof. Jonathan Lipman of Northampton, Mass., and Rabbi David Lipman of Pelham, N.Y.; two sisters, Reva Swartz of Camden, N.J., and Geraldine Silverman of Pittsburgh, and four grandchildren.
      