
        Phoumi Vongvichit, a Communist leader who helped guide Laos on its route from colonial rule to independence as a Communist state, died on Friday. He was 84.
        Simangkhala Souvannakhily, an official of the Laotian embassy in Bangkok, said Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit died of heart disease. It was not reported where he died.
        He was a veteran revolutionary as well as a fervent Laotian nationalist who joined the Communist Party as a young man and worked to oust the French from Indochina.
        He also opposed American intervention in Indochina, opposed the Laotian monarchy, and at various times in the last 40 years also was at odds with the Vietnamese and the Chinese. Held Many Positions
        Over the years and under various administrations, Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit served in numerous positions. After the Communists took power in 1975, he served as Deputy Prime Minister, Acting President, Minister of Education, Minister of Culture and a member of the Communist Politburo, which he left on on his retirement in 1991.
        Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit also was a delegate to a series of international conferences that sought, over a period of 30 years after World War II, to bring peace to Laos despite power confrontations over control of its Government, as well as civil war.
        Details of his early life are unclear, but he is believed to have been born into an elite Laotian family. He graduated from Vientiane College.
        In 1950 he joined the Lao Issara (Free Laos) revolutionary movement, and he joined the Lao People's Revolutionary Party when it was formed in 1955. The following year he was named deputy leader of the Pathet Lao (Land of Lao) movement. At Peace Conference
        He was still a little-known revolutionary when he became leader of the Pathet Lao delegation in the Geneva Peace conference in 1961. The conference led, a year later, to an agreement that temporarily brought peace.
        But peace dissolved into factional fighting and political bickering until 1973, when the Pathet Lao and the Laotian central Government agreed to a coalition Government. Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit then became the Foreign Minister. The next year he became the acting Prime Minister.
        When the Communists took control of Laos in 1975, they abolished the monarchy and declared the Lao People's Democratic Republic, which had long been his goal.
      