
        Kenneth Utt, a film producer whose credits include "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Philadelphia," died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was bone cancer, said his wife, Angie Henry Utt.
        Mr. Utt was born in Winston-Salem, N.C. After earning a bachelor's degree from Elon College in Elon, N.C., he won a scholarship to the Juilliard School, where he trained to become an opera singer. During World War II he served in the Army Air Corps with the "Winged Victory" entertainment unit headed by Moss Hart.
        After the war, Mr. Utt worked in New York as an actor in radio, theater, television and movies. He appeared on Broadway as Jigger in the original production of "Carousel" and starred in the "Studio One" television production "Thunder on Sycamore Street."
        He started out in production work as a stage manager for the Broadway shows "Peter Pan" and "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn." In television, he worked as a producer of "Toast of the Town," Ed Sullivan's first variety show; "Studio One" and "Du Pont Show of the Month." He was an associate producer of "The Defenders," "Coronet Blue" and other shows. Movies in the 60's
        In the late 60's, Mr. Utt began working in motion pictures, serving as a producer on many films, including "Midnight Cowboy," "The French Connection," "The Subject Was Roses," "All That Jazz," "Still of the Night," "Bye Bye Braverman" and "The Wiz."
        After producing Bob Fosse's "Star 80" in 1983, he produced several films directed by Jonathan Demme: "Something Wild," "Married to the Mob," "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Philadelphia." He also made several appearances as an actor, playing the father in "Something Wild" and Dr. Aiken in "The Silence of the Lambs," which won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1992.
        At the time of his death, he had begun working on a new film, "Baubles," which he planned to produce with his daughter, Robin Utt Fajardo, of Flushing, Queens, and many members of the Demme team.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, he is survived by a son, Timothy, of South Stafford, Vt.; three granddaughters, and a grandson.
      