
        Aleksandr Adamovich, a Belarussian author and advocate of political democracy, died on Wednesday in Moscow. He was 66 and had been active at the heart of cultural and political life in Moscow since the late 1980's.
        His wife said the cause was a heart attack, the Interfax news agency reported.
        Mr. Adamovich, who was known as Ales, was a member of the Russian Writers Union. He died shortly after testifying in court about a dispute involving property between two former Soviet literary organizations.
        He gained renown in the old Soviet Union for his stirring prose about Soviet partisans' struggles against Hitler's army in Belarus during World War II.
        In 1989, he was elected to the old Soviet Congress of People's Deputies. While the Soviet Union existed, he became a prominent critic of Stalinism and even mocked the powerful Soviet Writers Union as a haven for careerists. He also wrote and spoke out scathingly about the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.
        His many writings included a book, of which he and Daniil Granin were co-authors, about the German siege of Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, in World War II. The book said that during the siege, when Leningrad residents' daily food ration was scanty, they ate anything else they could lay their hands on, "everything from the birdseed to the canary itself."
        In recent years, as the Russian news agency Tass put it, Mr. Adamovich was "a prominent public activist who devoted much of his strength and energy to the strengthening of democracy in Russia." When advocates of democracy decided, at a meeting on Dec. 18 in Moscow, to found a new organization, the Russian Antifascist Movement, he was named to its council.
        His writings included the two-volume "Guerrillas," which appeared in the early 1960's, as well as a novella and book-length collections of his short stories.
        Mr. Adamovich was born in the Minsk region, , became a partisan as a teen-ager in the war, and studied philology in Minsk after starting out as a medical student. He later taught for a time at Moscow State University..
        During the Gorbachev era, he headed a film research institute in Moscow and held other public posts. As a legislator he often took part in televised debates.
      