
        Virginia Clinton Kelley, an indomitable nurse and sometimes single mother who endured the deaths of three husbands, survived family drug and alcohol abuse and raised a firstborn son who became President of the United States, died of complications from breast cancer early yesterday at her home in Hot Springs, Ark. She was 70.
        Mrs. Kelley, who underwent a mastectomy in 1990 and had suffered a recurrence of cancer last year, died in her sleep after watching the University of Arkansas-University of Mississippi basketball game on television, Clay Farrar, her husband's son-in-law, told The Associated Press. The Garland County coroner's office said the cause was complications from cancer.
        The White House press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, said that Mrs. Kelley's husband, Richard, had telephoned President Clinton with the news shortly before 2:30 A.M., and that it had come as a shock. Mr. Clinton flew to Arkansas yesterday afternoon, and his wife, Hillary, plans to join him there today.
        The Kelleys had spent Christmas at the White House, then played host to Mr. Clinton in Hot Springs, before flying to Las Vegas, Nev., for two Barbra Streisand concerts over the New Year's weekend. Life Marked by Pain
        "She had lunch with friends and literally, out of the blue, passed away in her sleep," Mr. Farrar said.
        A descendant of Irish farmers and Cherokee Indians, Mrs. Kelley worked 35 years as a nurse-anesthetist, and her life was marked by pain. Her first husband, the President's father, died in a car crash three months before he was born. Her second husband was an abusive alcoholic, who sometimes beat her until the President, then a teen-ager, demanded that he stop. Her second son, Roger Clinton, went to prison for 18 months on drug charges after an undercover investigation that his half brother authorized as Governor of Arkansas.
        As she put it in an interview during the 1992 campaign, "You know, this is extremely complicated, this family."
        Yet she remained undaunted, turned out in red-white-and blue campaign togs, her jet-black hair streaked with a frosted white swath, her fingers aglitter with five rings, one of them a row of graduated diamonds culled from her previous wedding bands.
        She loved playing the horses at the Oak Lawn Jockey Club track in Hot Springs, and a sampler on the wall of her house declared: "A racetrack is a place where windows clean people." She worshiped Elvis Presley, whose bust she kept in a macrame planter in the dining room.
        "I'm the world's greatest person to dismiss unpleasant things out of my mind," she once said, chuckling richly at the questions she faced as a candidate's mother. "You know, I get like, 'How did you feel when your husband shot at you?' Well, how does anybody feel when they get shot at?" Defending Her Son
        Family friends said Mrs. Kelley's resilience and courage had deeply influenced her oldest son, who became known for his own perseverance in the bruising New Hampshire primary. She stoutly defended him during campaign controversies, explaining in a television appearance the week of the Democratic National Convention that she believed his account of not having inhaled marijuana, since as a child he could never stand the smoke when she raked and burned leaves in the yard.
        "Before there were spin doctors, there was Virginia," said Carolyn Staley, a friend of the President since high school.
        Virginia Cassidy was born in the village of Bodcaw, Ark., about 12 miles from Hope, where her father, a grocer, later moved the family. As a student nurse in Shreveport, La., during World War II, she met her first husband, William Jefferson Blythe 3d, a traveling automotive-equipment salesman who married her shortly before going off to the service.
        When he returned, he took a job in Chicago and had just moved the couple's belongings into a new house and was on his way back to Arkansas to pick up his pregnant wife in 1946 when a tire blew out on a rain-slicked road. He was thrown from his car and drowned in a ditch, three months before the future President was born. Abusive Husband
        Last year, The Washington Post reported that Mr. Blythe had fathered a son by a previous marriage, and other newspapers later reported that he had also fathered a daughter by a third woman, from whom he was not divorced until several months after he had already married the President's mother. Mrs. Kelley said she knew nothing of either marriage, though President Clinton eventually talked on the phone with his presumed half brother, Henry Leon Ritzenthaler, of Paradise, Calif.
        As a young widow, Mrs. Kelley left her baby son in her parents' care to study anesthesiology in New Orleans, so that she could eventually earn more money. Returning to Arkansas, she married Roger Clinton, a Buick salesman whose name young Bill later took but whose alcoholism sometimes made him a menace to his wife. For more than 30 years, even the family's closest friends said they did not know of the elder Clinton's abuse, until the candidate raised it on the campaign trail as a sign of the burdens he had withstood.
        After giving birth to her second son, Mrs. Kelley eventually divorced Roger Clinton Sr., but then remarried him because she said she felt sorry for him when he came around to sleep on her stoop. He died of cancer in 1968 and she married Jeff Dwire, a hairdresser, who died of diabetes in 1974. She married Mr. Kelley, a retired food broker, in 1982.
        Mrs. Kelley retired in 1981, after her performance was questioned in the deaths of two patients during surgery and doctors tried to force her to work more closely under the supervision of anesthesiologists. In one case, the family of the patient sued Mrs. Kelley and a surgeon, but settled out of court; in the other, the state medical examiner, who had been appointed by her son, issued a ruling that cleared Mrs. Kelley. Mr. Clinton was between terms as Governor at the time, and both he and his mother said no influence was brought to bear.
        Besides her husband, the President and her granddaughter, Chelsea, she is survived by her son Roger, now an aspiring singer in Marina del Ray, Calif. A funeral service is scheduled for tomorrow at 9 A.M. at the Hot Springs Convention Center Auditorium, with burial in Hope.
        Mrs. Kelley relished the excitement of campaigning, and in 1992 often drove the hour from her home to Clinton headquarters in Little Rock, Ark., just to check in. She accepted the scrutiny of her extended family that came with politics, but distinctly did not approve of sensationalism, grimacing to a visitor as a commercial for one of Geraldo Rivera's programs popped up on her television screen one summer afternoon.
        "Judas priest!" she exclaimed. "These people kill me. Thank heaven I have my mute button." Then, blushing, she turned to her interviewer and asked: "But you won't tell him I said that? Not before the election?"
      