
        Thomas J. Watson Jr., who led I.B.M. and America into the computer age, prompting Fortune magazine to call him "the greatest capitalist who ever lived," died yesterday morning at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79.
        The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered earlier in December, Daniel Mosley, Mr. Watson's lawyer, said.
        A lifelong Democrat who was unusually outspoken on policy issues for a business executive, Mr. Watson embarked on a brief career of public service after he retired as chairman of the International Business Machines Corporation in 1971. Advocated Arms Reduction
        He became an ardent advocate of nuclear-arms reduction and served from 1979 to 1981 as the United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union, during the Carter Administration.
        "Tom Watson was one of the great business leaders of our time, a splendid Ambassador to the Soviet Union during a very difficult period, and a marvelous man," said Cyrus R. Vance, the Secretary of State during the Carter Administration and a former I.B.M. board member.
        A child of privilege, private schools and wealth, Mr. Watson was an indifferent student, who once confessed that he spent his years at Brown University mostly "flying airplanes and fooling around," though he graduated in 1937. But it was in business, especially after a five-year stint in the Army Air Corps in World War II, that Mr. Watson's energy, intelligence and shrewd instincts became apparent.
        He joined a company that his father, Thomas J. Watson Sr., had taken over in 1914, when it was still called the Computing Tabulating Recording Company. Under his father, who renamed it, I.B.M. became a medium-sized concern making punch-card-tabulating machinery, which before computers was used to assemble and add statistics. His father died in 1956 at age 82. Growth of a Company
        Under the younger Mr. Watson, I.B.M. became one of the world's biggest corporations and business legends. When Mr. Watson retired in 1971, and for nearly two decades afterward, I.B.M. was regarded worldwide as a symbol of management excellence and technological prowess.
        I.B.M.'s recent troubles -- financial losses and huge layoffs, caused by the decline of the big mainframe computers that were the company's traditional strength -- were a source of deep regret to Mr. Watson, though he no longer sat on the I.B.M. board and owned only a small number of shares.
        "They hired my father to make a go of this company in 1914, the year I was born," Mr. Watson said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal in 1992. "To some degree I've been a part of I.B.M. ever since. When you see something you love have great difficulties, you are very sad about it."
        Mr. Watson's real business insight was to recognize the profound change that electronics would mean for calculating everything from Census data to corporate balance sheets to market research. Electronics -- first as vacuum tubes, then as transistors, and later as silicon chips -- replaced the electromechanical business machines that relied on electric motors, levers and punch cards.
        In 1946, shortly after Mr. Watson joined I.B.M. as a salesman in New York City's financial district, the first big electronic computer, known as Eniac, was completed by two scientists at the University of Pennsylvania. By the 1950's, private industry had started developing machines.
        Even the earliest electronic computers could make calculations a thousand times faster than conventional business equipment. And Mr. Watson, who was named president of I.B.M. in 1952, steered the company into the computer age. Pushed New Technology
        "Watson saw before others the importance of electronics," said Peter Petre, a member of the editorial board of Fortune, who was Mr. Watson's collaborator in his best-selling memoirs, "Father, Son & Co.," published in 1990. "He and a small cadre of younger people within I.B.M. pushed the new technology long before the senior people in the company saw it."
        His bet on the new technology paid off enormously for I.B.M., as businesses recognized the power of the new machines to run large organizations and to track spending and consumer trends.
        "Around 1955, 'computer' became a magic word as popular as vitamins," Mr. Watson once recalled. "Top executives rightly believed that the companies of the future were going to be computer-run. Everybody wanted one . . . even though precisely how to use the machines was still a mystery, it became the consensus that management ran a bigger risk by waiting to computerize than by taking the plunge."
        At the outset, I.B.M. was by no means the obvious winner in this new technology. But its well-timed push into electronic computers, led by Mr. Watson, helped the company beat out industry rivals like Remington Rand, RCA, General Electric and Honeywell.
        But clever management and aggressive marketing were also part of I.B.M.'s formula for success. As a marketer, Mr. Watson had flair. In 1961, speaking before an industry conference, he conceded that a new I.B.M. machine had not met the expectations of the developers. Since the computer was only 70 percent as powerful as promised, Mr. Watson declared that its price would be cut by 30 percent.
        Mr. Watson was a driven manager, routinely working 12 to 14 hours a day, traveling extensively to visit the company's far-flung outposts. He created the system of internal competition among I.B.M. managers, known as the contention system. Under it, almost anyone was allowed to challenge the decisions of other managers, even superiors, and force them to explain their reasoning. A System Ossifies
        It worked well during I.B.M.'s fast-growth days from the 1950's to 1970's. But it became ossified after Mr. Watson left and, in recent years, the contention system has been blamed for bogging down decision-making in layers of corporate bureaucracy. The company has moved away from contention management, especially under its new chairman, Louis V. Gerstner Jr., who joined the company in April.
        In the marketplace, Mr. Watson was an unyielding competitor. In his 1990 memoirs, he wrote about I.B.M.'s and his own "primitive instinct" toward monopolistic behavior and acknowledged that the United States Government had some cause for bringing its landmark antitrust case against I.B.M.
        The case was dropped in 1982 when Washington was more worried about technological challenges from Japan and elsewhere than an extremely powerful I.B.M. And by then, the personal computer business was starting to take off -- a new industry, fueled by a new technology, the microchip, that would eventually undermine I.B.M.'s hold on the computer market. A Stormy Relationship
        In his memoirs, Mr. Watson was surprisingly candid about his intense, ambivalent, often stormy, relationship with his father, and how it fueled his ambition. Rebellious at times, he was also deeply loyal to his domineering father and constantly trying to live up to his standards.
        In "Father, Son & Co.," Mr. Watson relates a flare-up in 1952, after he and his father had a heated argument. Just before boarding a plane, he wrote, he told his father: "Damn you, old man. Can't you ever leave me alone?" Regretful, he wrote that the nine-hour flight was "the longest nine hours I spent in my life." He added, "When we landed, I couldn't wait to get to a phone to tell him how sorry I was."
        Tall, slender, graying, Mr. Watson had some natural attributes as a statesman. To some degree, his interest in international relations and disarmament sprang from his business experience. "He always believed that political friendships throughout the centuries have tended to follow the trade lanes," said Charles H. Percy, a former Republican Senator from Illinois, who was a longtime friend of Mr. Watson's.
        In addition to a house in Greenwich, Mr. Watson also had residences in Vail, Colo.; Stowe, Vt., and North Haven Island, Me.
        Mr. Watson is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Olive Field Cawley and six children: Thomas J. Watson 3d of Wilton, Conn.; Jeannette W. Sanger of New York City; Olive F. Watson of New York City; Lucinda W. Mehran of San Francisco; Susan W. Whitman of Dedham, Mass., and Helen W. Blodgett of Salem, Mass.
        He is also survived by 15 grandchildren.
      