
        Leo A. Larkin, New York City's Corporation Counsel for the last term of Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        As the city's chief law officer from May 1961 to the end of 1965, Mr. Larkin presided over one of the country's biggest law offices, with a staff of 320 lawyers. He also had supervisory jurisdiction over more than 75 lawyers in other city agencies.
        He took on some celebrated cases. In one of them the city acquired the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines and its subsidiary, Surface Transit Inc., and brought them under the wing of the Transit Authority. Other noted proceedings before the trial and appellate courts concerned New York Telephone Company rates, reorganization of the Long Island Rail Road, takeover of land for industrial redevelopment, the election of city councilmen-at-large, and the constitutionality of Charter revision. Known for Conciseness
        On more than one occasion, he toiled through two nights and a day without sleep while preparing a case. Fellow lawyers admired his briefs as examples of conciseness and orderly argument. He also was known for the ability to relax completely when the pressure was off.
        A friend once said that he "makes a martini the same way he writes a brief -- he measures everything with meticulous care, with nothing left to chance or inspiration."
        Upon leaving office, he was elected vice president, secretary and general counsel of W. R. Grace & Company, a diversified multinational corporation. He retired in 1982.
        Leo Arthur Larkin was born in New York City, the second eldest of 10 children of an architect and an engineer. He was an outstanding scholar of Latin, Greek, English and economics at Fordham University and graduated cum laude in 1932. He received his law degree from Fordham in 1935 and subsequently studied accounting as well as income, franchise, gift and estate tax law at New York University Law School. Served in Navy
        In World War II, Mr. Larkin was commissioned into the Navy and served three years, part of them as secretary of the Navy Price Adjustment Board, and held the rank of lieutenant when discharged. He then joined the New York law firm of Regan & Barrett but resigned in 1954 when he was named First Assistant Corporation Counsel in Mayor Wagner's first administration.
        Mr. Larkin is survived by his wife of 52 years, Eleanor Freaney Larkin; his daughter, Susan, of Manhattan; two sons, Paul, of Dallas, and Leo, of Forest Hills; four sisters, Rita Cuskley of Mamaroneck, N.Y., Patricia Smith of Denver, Eileen Reid of Hackensack, N.J., and Sister Kathleen Larkin of San Antonio, and two grandchildren.
      