
        Fred Snowden, the first black coach of a major college basketball team, died in Washington on Monday. He was 57.
        Mr. Snowden, who had been head coach at the University of Arizona, died at George Washington Hospital after being stricken, apparently with a heart attack at a convenience store, said Bob Elliott, a former Arizona player who became a close friend of his former coach.
        A former Baskins-Robbins executive who had become executive director of the Food 4 Less Foundation in Los Angeles, Mr. Snowden had gone to Washington to attend Monday's White House ceremony in which the President unveiled plans for "empowerment zones" to develop urban and rural areas.  Successful High School Coach
        Mr. Snowden was born to sharecroppers in Brewton, Ala. At 6, he moved with his family to Detroit, where he attended Northwestern High School. He later guided the basketball team to a 89-5 record in five years as coach.
        After serving as an assistant basketball coach at the University of Michigan, Mr. Snowden was recruited by Arizona's athletic director, David Strack, a former assistant athletic director at Michigan, to take over as Arizona's coach in 1972.
        The appointment made Mr. Snowden the second black coach of a Division I team, after Will Robinson of Illinois State, and the first at a major college.
        His was hardly a plum assignment. The Wildcats had limped to a 6-20 record the season before. But Mr. Snowden led the team to a turnaround 16-10 record his first season and improved his record year by year.
        By the time the Wildcats won the Western Athletic Conference championship in 1976, their first in 25 years, basketball was an Arizona mania, and Mr. Snowden, the first black coach to win a major conference championship, was known as the Desert Fox.
        Years later, Mr. Snowden noted that he had had more initial success than two other pioneering black coaches, John Thompson at Georgetown and George Raveling at Washington State, who had been hired a few months after he was, and he expressed pride in his accomplishment.
        "It was a good thing one of us succeeded right away," he said. "People have told me that the success of my teams in those first four years was one of the pivotal reasons that opportunities began to open up for other black coaches."
        But Mr. Snowden's success did not continue, especially after Arizona joined the Pacific-10, and the coach came under criticism after it was reported he had benefited from an athletic slush fund. Although the National Collegiate Athletic Association found no rules violations, Mr. Snowden resigned in 1982 after the Wildcats turned in a 9-18 record, giving the coach a 167-108 career record.
        He is survived by his wife, Maye; a son, Charles Anthony; a daughter, Stacey Shannon Snowden, and two grandchildren.
      