
        Abraham J. Gellinoff, a State Supreme Court justice for 16 years, beginning in 1961, died on Friday at his home in Washington Heights. He was 91.
        He died of natural causes, said Steven Masket, a grandson.
        While in office, Justice Gellinoff's appointment of his son-in-law to a lucrative legal assignment prompted a state inquiry and led to new rules to reduce nepotism in New York courts.
        Justice Gellinoff began his legal career in 1926, practicing with several firms after graduating from New York University School of Law at the age of 19. At the time, a bachelor's degree was not necessary to enter law school.
        In 1934, he was appointed an assistant district attorney in Manhattan, a post he held for fours years before leaving to become the head of the law committee of the New York County Democratic Committee. After 1938, he returned to private practice, forming the partnership of Gershman & Gellinoff. Highly Publicized Trials
        During his years on the bench, he presided over dozens of highly publicized trials, including that of L. Judson Morhouse, a former chairman of the State Republican Committee, who was convicted in 1966 of bribing an official to obtain a liquor license for the Playboy Club. Later that year, Justice Gellinoff presided over a case barring reporters from an inquiry into the finances of Representative Adam Clayton Powell, who owed $162,000 as a judgment to a woman whom he was convicted of defaming in 1960.
        Another case involved Harold Konigsberg, who was accused of extorting money from two stockbrokers and beating one with a metal cable. Mr. Konigsberg, who served as his own lawyer, adopted a strategy of trying to cause a mistrial by provoking Justice Gellinoff into an outburst or into making a reversible error. He frequently called the judge "an animal," "dishonest" and "un-American."
        Justice Gellinoff's manner remained patient and firm, however, and Mr. Konigsberg was eventually convicted and sentenced to at least 30 years in prison.
        Justice Gellinoff resigned in the midst of a state inquiry into the propriety of his appointments of his son-in-law, Frederick I. Levy, as an arbitrator and a referee in two cases that came before him in 1967 and 1974, positions for which Mr. Levy received $33,500 in legal fees. Defended Quality of Justice
        The inquiry, by the State Commission on Judicial Conduct, ended because he left the court.
        At the time of his retirement, Justice Gellinoff said that he had not paid enough attention to the way some of his appointments might be interpreted. But he asserted that "nothing I did has resulted in reducing the quality of justice administered to litigants," and he further criticized the system of appointments for requiring judges to make the awards too quickly.
        In July 1976, following the disclosures of his appointments, stricter court rules aimed at reducing nepotism and favoritism in patronage were imposed on State Supreme Court justices in Manhattan and the Bronx.
        In addition, investigations continued for several years into reports that other judges had made questionable awards.
        In later years, Justice Gellinoff continued some legal practice.
        He is survived by his wife, Jeanne; a sister, Sylvia Brodzinski of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; two daughters, Judy Levy of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Joan Masket of Riverdale, N.Y.; 6 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      