
        Fred C. Scribner Jr., an Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Eisenhower Administration who held positions in the Republican Party and in his home state of Maine and in Washington, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 86 and lived in Falmouth, a town near Portland.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Robert N. Barnes, a funeral director.
        Mr. Scribner's political and legal career spanned more than six decades. After rising to national committeeman from Maine, he went to Washington in 1955 to become general counsel to the Treasury Department. He stayed in the department through Dwight D. Eisenhower's second term and was appointed Under Secretary in 1957. Work on Political Matters
        In the Treasury, Mr. Scribner supervised the Internal Revenue Service and United States Coast Guard, but his responsibilities went beyond his official duties. He became involved in policy matters, working on problems like the recession, the handling of the national debt and rising Government and military costs.
        Mr. Scribner was also a member of the National Security Council from 1959 to 1961. In February 1961, he criticized John F. Kennedy's foreign policy, accusing the newly elected President of playing on fears of a missile gap that would leave the United States behind the Soviet Union.
        "It could conceivably lead an emboldened aggressor to touch off a world holocaust through miscalculation of our retaliatory strength," he said. "Somehow the world must win the time it needs to achieve a just and lasting peace, even though this may require half a century or more."
        Mr. Scribner was born in Bath, Me., in 1908. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1930 and from Harvard Law School in 1933.
        He began to practice law after Harvard and, except for his years in Washington, was a partner in Pierce, Atwood, Scribner, Allen, Smith & Lancaster in Portland until his death, his family said.
        Mr. Scribner's interest in politics originated in 1936 when even Franklin D. Roosevelt was unable to take Maine away from the Republicans. In Maine, Mr. Scribner was associated with "Old Guard" Republicanism, rather than with the more liberal elements in the party. A Nixon Strategist in '60
        In 1960, he was a top strategist in Richard M. Nixon's campaign against Kennedy and helped to arrange the first-ever televised Presidential debates.
        Mr. Scribner's wife of 58 years, Barbara, died a few days before him. Her funeral was held Wednesday afternoon, just hours after her husband's death.
        Mr. Scribner is survived by a sister, Frances, of St. Davids, Pa.; three sons, Fred C. 3d, of Cambridge, Mass., Curtis M., of Yarmouth, Me., and Charles D., of Portland, and six grandchildren.
      