
        Frank the barber, as Frank Minnelli is known here, was clipping sideburns this afternoon, but it was hard to keep his mind on his work. All he could think about, all the people who kept stopping by could talk about, was the man who had been his customer, their friend and a regular guy from the neighborhood for more than 40 years -- Thomas P. (Tip) O'Neill Jr.
        Mr. O'Neill, 81, who was Speaker of the House from 1977 to 1987 and who represented parts of Cambridge and Boston for four decades, died on Wednesday night of cardiac arrest at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
        "I didn't realize he was such a big shot, Mr. Speaker, until I saw him in Washington," Mr. Minnelli said. "It was 10 years ago. He invited my wife and I down. He took us to lunch in the Congressional dining hall. Then afterward we were walking around the Capitol. He's got his arm around me. A congressman came up to him and said he had the Mayor of Philadelphia in his office. Tom -- I always called him Tom -- said, 'Not now, I've got more important people.' " 'He Listened'
        Some of the old-timers sitting around the barber shop on Massachusetts Avenue were not even there for haircuts. They had braved the bitter cold just to talk about Tip O'Neil, the bricklayer's son who had grown up in North Cambridge, just a few blocks from Frank's. "There were only three politicians -- James Michael Curley, Tip O'Neill and Al Vellucci," said Al Vellucci, a 78-year-old former Mayor of Cambridge.
        At moments, the men would fall silent, remembering, not just Mr. O'Neill, perhaps, but the era that had gone with him. Then Mr. Vellucci would remind them: "Like Tip O'Neill said, 'All politics is local.' "
        Mr. Minnelli, 58, recalled how Mr. O'Neill had sat in his chair, talking to him about the Vietnam War. "He changed his opinion, if you remember," he said. "At first he was supporting the President. He told me we had to stop the aggression. But then he went out and talked to people in his district, and he went against the President. It was a big step for him -- a lot of soul searching."
        One of Mr. Minnelli's customers, Larry Sullivan, said: "He's what politicians aren't today. He listened to the people."
        Mr. O'Neill routinely won large majorities in his district. In 1984, he was re-elected with 92 percent of the vote.
        The barber shop has three leather chairs, a sign advertising "haircuts -- $6.50," and a picture of a smiling, white-haired Mr. O'Neill. "He had great hair to cut," Mr. Minnelli said of the former Speaker. "It was thick. You could work with it. No blow-drying, no gel -- we don't do that here -- maybe a little Vitalis once in awhile."
        Leonard Lamkin, 80, a boyhood friend of Mr. O'Neill's, and a regular at Frank's, could not make it to the barber shop today, but by telephone he added his voice to the chorus. "When Tip was in town, he always went to Frank the Barber," Mr. Lamkin said. "Even if he didn't need a haircut, he'd go and get one."
        Frank's is just a few blocks from Barry's Corner, named after the family that lived there, where Mr. Lamkin, Mr. O'Neill and their buddies congregated as teen-agers. For the last 28 years, Mr. Lamkin recalled, Mr. O'Neill regularly attended reunions of the Barry's Corner group at the Veterans of Foreign Wars hall in North Cambridge. "He would address them all by their nicknames -- Potatoes Labo, Pinky Sullivan, Blubber Sheehan" said Mr. Lamkin, who was known as Lenny. "What a memory he had."
        Before returning home, Mr. Vellucci paid a visit to John the Cobbler, as John Gimigliano is called, two doors down from Frank's. Mr. O'Neill's shoe repair man had erected a makeshift altar -- a bouquet of artificial red roses, a candle and a framed cover of an old New Republic magazine, with the former House Speaker on the cover.
        "He came here for 50 years -- not two years, 50 years," Mr. Gimigliano said, fighting back tears. "I don't call him a politician. He was my favorite friend. He invited me to Washington. He says, 'I got the red carpet here for you. When you come, you got to walk on it.' "
      