
        Emily Taft Douglas, a former United States Representative from Illinois, died on Friday at a nursing home in White Plains. She was 94 and had lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., since moving from Washington in 1986.
        Mrs. Douglas was the widow of former Senator Paul H. Douglas, who represented Illinois from 1949 to 1966. But having served in the House from 1945 to 1947, she was the first American woman to precede a husband to Congress. Both were Democrats.
        In the House, Mrs. Douglas became a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and campaigned for the fledgling United Nations. She traveled in war-ravaged Europe and backed the relief efforts of the United Nations.
        She introduced legislation for bookmobiles to bring library services to rural America, and such a bill eventually passed after her husband's election as the Hill-Douglas Act. Marched for Civil Rights
        Mrs. Douglas was elected in 1944 after a campaign against isolationism and went to Washington as Representative-at-Large, representing Illinois as a whole. By 1946, the political climate had changed and her support of the Truman Administration's policies sank her bid for re-election.
        During her husband's 18 years on Capitol Hill, Mrs. Douglas was an advocate of civil rights and marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Alabama. She was a representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and other United Nations conferences. A Unitarian, she was also a moderator of the American Unitarian Association.
        Mrs. Douglas was the author of "Appleseed Farm" (1948), a children's book; "Remember the Ladies" (1966), the story of women who helped shape America, and "Margaret Sanger" (1970), about the pioneer in family planning.
        A native of Chicago, she was the daughter of Lorado Taft, the sculptor, and Ada Bartless Taft. After graduating from the University of Chicago, she studied acting.
        Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, yesterday called the Douglases good partners and said, "Together, Emily and Paul Douglas contributed immensely to Illinois and the nation."
        Paul Douglas died in 1976. Mrs. Douglas is survived by a daughter, Dr. Jean Taft Douglas Bandler of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
        Correction:  February 3, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Emily Taft Douglas, a former Democratic Representive from Illinois, misstated the middle name of her mother, who died before her. She was Ada Bartlett Taft.
      