
        Dr. J. Vernon Luck Sr., an orthopedic surgeon who was one of the first to successfully reattach a severed limb, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Diane Luck Carter of Los Angeles.
        Dr. Luck also invented several prosthetic devices, and wrote a widely used textbook on bone pathology.
        On Aug. 24, 1961, he reattached the left arm of a construction worker who was severely mangled in a freeway accident. Three years later, when the worker demonstrated his recovery by lifting a cup of coffee at a news conference, Dr. Luck modestly said, "Yes, we would certainly call it a success." Early Experience With Surgery
        In another surgical success, he did a total hip replacement on a patient who was a hemophiliac.
        Dr. Luck often told interviewers that he was propelled into orthopedics by a childhood experience. When he was 4 years old his mother, Catherine, lay near death with tuberculosis compounded by an abscess just above her knee. His father found a doctor willing to amputate the leg and, with the help of two other doctors, performed the surgery on the kitchen table. Mrs. Luck recovered and lived 56 more years; she died in 1966.
        James Vernon Luck was born in Hannibal, Mo.. He completed two years of medical school at the University of Missouri before transferring to St. Louis University, where he received a medical degree in 1931. He received a master's degree in orthopedic surgery from Iowa State University in 1937.
        Dr. Luck is credited with inventing the Luck Bone Saw in 1941, the first motorized bone-cutting and drilling device that could be sterilized repeatedly without damaging the drive train. It was widely used in World War II.
        He is also credited with the invention in 1961 of the Luck Cup, which sits in the hip socket and serves as a partial hip replacement for arthritis patients. Widely Used Textbook
        In World War II, while serving in the Army Medical Corps from 1942 to 1946, Dr. Luck wrote a history of orthopedic surgery during the war. The book earned him the Medal of the Legion of Merit from the United States Surgeon General in 1947.
        Three years later he wrote "Bone and Joint Diseases," a 700-page textbook and reference work that was the definitive book on bone pathology for many years.
        Dr. Luck was the medical director of Orthopaedic Hospital in Los Angeles from 1965 to 1968.A research center there is named after him. His son, Dr. James V. Luck Jr., is now the medical director and chief executive officer of the hospital.
        The elder Dr. Luck helped establish the first bone bank at Los Angeles Children's Hospital, where he worked on the staff from 1940 to 1955. His pathology studies contributed to the acceptance of battered child syndrome, an important step in providing legal protection to abused youths. Professional Associations
        Dr. Luck was clinical professor emeritus of orthopedic surgery at the University of Southern California and president of the American Academy of Orthopaedics from 1961 to 1962. He was also chairman of the American Medical Association's orthopaedic section and president of the Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation and the Hip Society.
        Dr. Luck's wife of 53 years, Ramona Beck, died in 1991. Besides his daughter and son, he is survived by a sister, Mary Frances Davis of Ottawa, Kan., and six granchildren.
        Services will be held Saturday at 10:30 A.M. at the First Congregational Church of Los Angeles. Burial will be at Forest Lawn in Glendale.
      