
        Lieut. Gen. Johannes Steinhoff, one of the Luftwaffe's fighter aces of World War II and a mover in rebuilding the postwar German military under NATO auspices, died on Monday in Bonn. He was 80 and lived in nearby Bad Godesberg.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack he suffered in December, his family said.
        Born in a village near Rossleben in what is now the state of Saxony-Anhalt, General Steinhoff joined the military as a naval cadet in 1934 but moved to the Luftwaffe two years later. In the war he flew almost constantly in Russia, Africa and Sicily, and finally over Germany itself. Awarded the Iron Cross
        He was decorated with nearly every medal for bravery, including the highest order of the Iron Cross. As the leader of a fighter squadron, he downed 176 Allied planes and was himself shot down 12 times. At the end of the war he was severely injured in the crash of a new Messerschmitt-262 jet fighter he was flying when the landing gear collapsed on touchdown in Munich. His injuries left his face permanently disfigured.
        General Steinhoff kept a contemptuous distance from Air Marshal Hermann Goring and the Nazi hierarchy, who had him demoted to squadron pilot. After the war he took civilian jobs until he rejoined West Germany's reviving air force as a colonel in 1952. He gained a reputation as an intelligent, blunt-spoken commander.
        He held responsible positions in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and in 1966 took charge of the West German Air Force, which he built it into a NATO showpiece within years.
        His success led to his appointment in 1971 as chairman of the alliance's military committee. Other NATO commanders respected him for putting the alliance's overarching objectives above national interests, including Germany's.
        After retiring from his NATO command in 1974, General Steinhoff became a widely read author of books on German military aviation during the war and the experiences of the German people at that time. He also became a watercolorist, and chairman of Germany's Dornier Aviation.
        General Steinhoff is survived by his wife, Ursula; a daughter, Ursula Bird of Colorado Springs; a son, Dr. Wolf, of Hoxter, Germany; a brother, Bernd, of Columbus, Ohio; two sisters, Greta Zehender and Lotte Hahn of Germany, and four grandchildren. His son-in-law, Michael C. Bird, is a Republican State Senator and a candidate for Governor in Colorado.
      