
        John Rewald, a teacher, a curator and an author of landmark studies in the history of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art, died yesterday in Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81, and had homes in Manhattan and Menerbes, France.
        The cause was congestive heart failure after a long illness, said his physician, Kevin Cahill.
        First with his "History of Impressionism" in 1946 and 10 years later with his "History of Post-Impressionism," Mr. Rewald chronicled French avant-garde painting during the second half of the 19th century in remarkable and groundbreaking detail. Since the publication of those volumes, Mr. Rewald's works have served as indispensible sources of dates, places, names and, most of all, ideas about late 19th- and early 20th-century art in France, and therefore about the entire evolution of modern art.
        The books formed the foundation for the research of countless later scholars and also were primary targets for revisionist historians who sought to overturn the study of modern art, beginning with Mr. Rewald's texts. One way or another, every scholar of late 19th-century French art had to contend with his writings.
        His work forms a crucial link to the artists of the 19th century, because he interested himself above all in first-hand sources. He interviewed Renoir's brother; he was the literary executor for Felix Feneon, who was Seurat's great champion; he knew Maillol and Signac and was close to members of Redon's and Pissarro's families, and he photographed Cezanne's motifs around Aix-en-Provence before they were inexorably changed by the encroachment of modern development.
        William Rubin, a former director of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, who collaborated with Mr. Rewald in 1977 on an important exhibition of late works by Cezanne, stressed the fact that Mr. Rewald was a starting point even for those who wanted to add to his account. "Though he was born no more than 15 years before me," Mr. Rubin said, "I grew up in a generation that considered his works on Impressionism and Post-Impressionism to be the major authoritative statements. They still are."  Award From Art Dealers
        When Mr. Rewald received a lifetime achievement award in 1983 from the Art Dealers Association of America, Theodore Reff, a professor of art history at Columbia University and another collaborator on the Cezanne exhibition, said: "He is more responsible than anyone else for putting the study of Impressionism and Post-Impressionism on solid scholarly foundations. What he set out to do, he did more thoroughly and scrupulously than anybody else, and he did it first."
        Cezanne was Mr. Rewald's abiding passion, and he wrote several books about the artist, beginning in 1936 with "Cezanne: A Biography," which won the prestigious Mitchell Prize in 1986 when it was revised and republished.  Helped Save Cezanne's Studio
        His most recent work was "Cezanne and America," published in 1989 by Princeton University Press and based on the 1979 Mellon Lectures he delivered at the National Gallery of Art. In the mid-1950's, Mr. Rewald was instrumental in saving Cezanne's studio in Aix-en-Provence from destruction, by organizing a committee of American patrons who bought the studio and transformed it into a public museum.
        Mr. Rewald also wrote books on Gauguin, Bonnard, Renoir, Degas, Seurat, Pissarro and Maillol. He combined an unusual thoroughness of documentation with a feistiness and a partisan's enthusiasm. For many years, it was not unusual to see Mr. Rewald's articles and letters in the pages of art magazines and in newspapers, expressing his disapproval of one or another decision by a museum director or fellow scholar or critic. In the early 1970's, he was, for example, among the most vocal opponents of sales by the Metropolitan Museum of Art of important works from its collection.  Flight From Germany
        John Rewald was born in Berlin on May 12, 1912, and studied at the University of Hamburg (with the great art historian Erwin Panofsky), the University of Frankfurt on Main and the Sorbonne. His 1936 doctoral dissertation at the Sorbonne (which offered no courses on modern art at the time) on Cezanne and Zola was awarded a prize from the French Academy. Mr. Rewald's family had left Germany in 1933, six months after Hitler came to power. The art historian once recalled his mother's saying: "I have lived here all these years without Hitler and that was bad enough. With Hitler, no way."
        In 1939, Mr. Rewald was interned for three months in France as an enemy alien. "It was incredible to get us Jews interned as if we were Hitler Germans," he said. "We were interned with actual Nazis." In 1941, he left France for the United States. He became an American citizen six years later. Affinity for a Museum
        Not long after his arrival in New York City (Alfred H. Barr, who was then the director of the Museum of Modern Art, was one of his sponsors for entry), Mr. Rewald began an association with the Modern that continued, on and off, for most of his life. He served as guest curator on many exhibitions, including "Bonnard" (1948), "The Fauves" (1952) and "Redon-Moreau-Bresdin, Symbolists" (1961). Although he never held a full-time post at the museum, Mr. Rewald was appointed an honorary trustee in 1983.
        He was throughout his career intimately connected to the art market, and he advised many collectors. He served for more than two decades as the curator of John Hay Whitney's collection, suggesting to Mr. Whitney which paintings to buy and which to donate to the many museums that studiously courted the collector. Partly on the basis of Mr. Rewald's recommendations, major works by Picasso, Matisse, Cezanne, Braque and Monet from the Whitney collection went to such institutions as the National Gallery, Yale University and the Museum of Modern Art. He also advised Paul Mellon on his collection of late 19th-century French art.
        From 1963 to 1971, Mr. Rewald taught art history at the University of Chicago, and from 1971 to 1985 he was distinguished professor of art history at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. He received an honorary doctorate from the University of Michigan in 1982, and in 1984 was named an honorary citizen of Aix-en-Provence, where a street was named after him. He became an officer of the French Legion of Honor in 1986.
        He is survived by his third wife, Anna, and a stepdaughter, Danielle Duke. Two previous marriages ended in divorce. A son, Paul, died in 1976 at the age of 32.
      