
        John J. Reynolds, a New York real-estate broker for more than 40 years, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 61.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Douglas MacLaury, the executive vice president of Mr. Reynolds's firm. Co-Owner of Firm
        Mr. Reynolds was the president and sole owner of the Reynolds Organization, which has been a full-service commercial real-estate firm since its founding, as John Reynolds, Inc., in 1918.
        Mr. Reynolds became president in 1981 on the death of his father, also named John J. Reynolds, who had been the president of the company. The organization has advised the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York in real-estate matters since 1939.
        Before becoming president, the younger Mr. Reynolds had been a co-owner of the company, which now has headquarters at 375 Park Avenue, and had assisted his father in its management.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Reynolds personally accomplished the placement of a total of more than one billion dollars in financing, including capital lease financing for the development of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and financing for the sale of the Tiffany Building.
        Mr. Reynolds was born in Manhattan, grew up in Riverdale, graduated from La Salle Military Academy in Oakdale, L.I., and served in the Marine Corps.
        He was on the boards of St. Augustine School of the Arts in the Bronx and the African Fund for Endangered Wildlife.
        The wake for Mr. Reynolds is to be held at Frank E. Campbell the Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, from 5 to 7 P.M. on Thursday and Friday. A funeral Mass is scheduled at 9:30 A.M. on Saturday at St. Patrick's Cathedral.
        Mr. Reynolds is survived by his wife, Betsy von Furstenberg, to whom he was married in 1984; two brothers, Michael, of Tarrytown, N.Y., and Christopher of Falls Village, Conn.; two sisters, Margot Prendergast of Manhattan and Barbara Elliott of Palm Beach, Fla.; two stepchildren, Caroline Gerry of Water Mill, L.I., and Glyn Vincent of Manhattan, and two stepgrandchildren.
      