
        Douglas Morse Howell, an artist and educator often credited with reviving the craft of making paper by hand, died on Sunday at Hackettstown Hospital in Hackettstown, N.J. He was 87.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Howell was born in 1906 in New York City. Just before World War I, he went to Europe with his mother, Mary Howell, whose job as a foreign correspondent for The Associated Press took her to Paris, Florence and Genoa. He attended the University of Turin, then worked in New York in the 1930's as a banker and literary agent.
        In World War II, Mr. Howell was in the United States Army for five years and at the war's end learned to make paper by hand in France. Back in New York in 1946, he built the first of several pulp beaters, a machine he continued to refine throughout his life. He used it both to create his own works and to make paper for other artists, especially in printmaking. The artists he worked with included Jackson Pollock, Lee Krasner, Dorothy Dehner and Alfonso Ossorio. For nearly three decades he was the primary papermaker for Tatiana Grossman, whose Universal Limited Art Editions published prints by Jasper Johns, Larry Rivers and Robert Rauschenberg.  Paper From Blue Jeans
        Mr. Howell made paper in an astounding range of weights, colors and textures. All sheets were distinctive and some, like the spiral he made for the sculptor Mary Callary, were three-dimensional. He made paper from flax that he grew behind his house in Oyster Bay, L.I., and from hemp, linen and even blue jeans. He lectured throughout the world and taught primarily by letting students work with him in his studio. Several of these students went on to establish departments of papermaking in art schools and universities in the United States and Canada.
        Mr. Howell had his first one-man show in New York at the Betty Parsons Gallery in 1955 and had retrospectives at the American Craft Museum in 1982 and the New York Public Library in 1986. He is represented in many public collections, including the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the Brooklyn Museum, the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Public Library and the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, England.
        Mr. Howell's marriage to the poet Alice Orcutt ended in divorce.
        He is survived by a brother, Jack Rupnik, of Genoa, Italy; a son, Timothy, of Madison, Wis.; three daughters, Abby Samuels, of Lyme, Conn., Elisabeth King, of Medford, N.J., and Jennifer Howell Van Ness, of Mukilteo, Wash., and 10 grandchildren.
      