
        Jake Gaither, the longtime Florida A&M coach who turned a generation of "mo-bile, a-gile and hos-tile," youngsters into some of the National Football League's fiercest competitors from the 1940's to the 1970's, died yesterday at a hospital in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 90. A school spokesman said he had been in failing health.
        "My boys," as Gaither called them, may have come to him raw, but by the time they graduated to the N.F.L., as more than 40 of them did during his 25-year-run -- including Bob Hayes and Willie Galimore -- they knew how to play football and win.
        From 1945 to 1969, his teams compiled a 203-36-4 record, an .844 winning percentage that is the highest for college coaches with 200 victories.
        As the coach of a historically black college, Alonzo Smith (Jake) Gaither turned Southern segregation to his advantage, recruiting with a religious zeal.
        As Ken Riley, a former Gaither player put it yesterday, "Back then it was the dream of every black kid in Florida to play for F.A.M.U."
        Gaither, who called the football field his laboratory for manhood, was a powerful motivator who stressed character over talent.
        "You knew he cared more about you as a person than as a football player," said Riley, who is an associate athletic director at Florida A&M.
        In his 1993 book, "Black College Football, 1892-1992," (Donning), Michael Hurd tells how Gaither quelled team resentment over attention being paid Hayes, "the world's fastest human," after he won two gold medals at the 1964 Olympics.
        "Tell you how you can get just as much publicity as he gets," Gaither told the team. "Outrun him."
        Hayes, who later played for the Dallas Cowboys and now operates the Daytop Village drug treatment program in Dallas, had to fight back tears last night as he recalled his revered coach.
        "That man was my father, my coach, my friend and my mentor," he said.
        For all his emphasis on character, Gaither knew his football. His book "Split-Line T" was widely hailed by major college coaches.
        Gaither, whose father was a legendary minister in Tennessee, was born in Dayton, Tenn., and after graduation from Knoxville College in 1927, became a teacher and a high school coach. After receiving a master's degree from Ohio State in 1937 he became an assistant coach at Florida A&M.
        He is survived by his wife Sadie. The couple had no children.
      