
        Avery Fisher, the founder of the Fisher electronics company and a philanthropist who donated millions of dollars to arts organizations and universities, died yesterday at the New Milford Hospital in New Milford. He was 87 and had homes in Manhattan and in Washington, Conn.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Janet.
        Mr. Fisher, for whom a concert hall at Lincoln Center was named, was an influential figure in New York musical circles, an amateur violinist whose love of music led him to build his own high-quality radios and phonographs in the 1930's, first as a hobby and later as an extremely profitable business. He sat on the boards of the New York Philharmonic, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the Marlboro Festival and other organizations.
        "I like to be thought of as a musician who incidentally manufactured high- quality, high-fidelity equipment for music lovers," he said in 1973.
        Mr. Fisher was frequently seen in New York's concert halls and was as likely to be there to hear a young performer as an established star. Philharmonic Hall was renamed for him in 1973 after he donated $10.5 million to Lincoln Center. Rescuing a Troubled Hall
        The gift was intended as an endowment fund, with 80 percent of the proceeds to be used for the maintenance of Philharmonic Hall and the remaining 20 percent for the Avery Fisher Artist Program, which gives cash awards to young instrumentalists. When Lincoln Center decided to renovate the acoustically troubled hall, however, Mr. Fisher agreed that $4 million of his gift could be used for the rebuilding.
        The hall, which opened in 1962, had undergone less extensive modifications in 1964, 1965 and 1969, at a combined cost of $2 million. But its problems, which included echoes in some parts of the hall and dry, unresonant sound elsewhere, persisted. In the summer of 1976, the hall was rebuilt under the supervision of the architect Philip Johnson and the acoustician Cyril M. Harris.
        Mr. Fisher took an active if unofficial hand in the process, conferring with Mr. Johnson and Mr. Harris several times a week as the new hall was being planned. It reopened on Oct. 19, 1976. Although some critics still find fault with the hall, the renovation was generally agreed to have solved many of its original problems. First, Books and Graphics
        Avery Robert Fisher was born in Brooklyn on March 4, 1906, the youngest of six children. His father, Charles Fisher, and his mother, the former Mary Byrach, had come to New York from Kiev, then a part of Russia, in 1905. Mr. Fisher said that he had become fascinated with music through his father's large record collection and that everyone in the family had played a musical instrument.
        Mr. Fisher did not choose to pursue a professional career in music, however. He entered New York University in 1924 as a prelaw student but later changed his fields of study to biology and English. After he graduated in 1929, he took a job at an advertising agency that had book publishers among its accounts. In 1932 he left the agency to take a job with one of those publishers, G. P. Putnam's Sons.
        The next year he moved to another publisher, Dodd, Mead & Company, where he worked as a graphic designer for $18 a week. He remained with the company for a decade. Although he left publishing in 1943, he often described book design as "my first love," and he occasionally undertook projects for Dodd, Mead long after he had made his fortune in the audio world. Among the books he designed were "A History of the English-Speaking Peoples," by Winston Churchill (1960) and "The American Seasons," by Edwin Way Teale (1976). He donated his fees for those projects to charities.
        "Looking at a beautiful typographical design," he told an interviewer in 1976, "is like listening to music." Beginnings of a Business
        Mr. Fisher's endeavors in audio design began in the mid-1930's, while he was still working for Dodd, Mead. He began building his own radios to get better sound than ready-made models delivered. By 1937 he had made notable improvements in the design of amplifiers, tuners and speakers, and he established his first company, Philharmonic Radio.
        "I was developing my hobby in hi-fi, and a number of friends asked me to make for them the kind of equipment I was constructing for my own home," Mr. Fisher recalled in 1976, "the sort of thing that was not commercially available, the type of thing found in radio stations or movie theaters. And so I started constructing for this small group of people, and before I knew it I had the beginnings of a business."
        In 1945 Mr. Fisher sold Philharmonic Radio and started a second audio company, Fisher Radio. He assembled his engineering staff by luring the best audio technicians from European companies. "I had the best engineers around," he said in 1986. "Whenever another company needed an engineer, the first place they came to try to steal somebody was my company. I didn't blame them. I got my engineers from Europe, where they were grossly underpaid. I offered them four or five times what they were making. And those fellows turned out superb equipment." Premium Prices and Quality
        Fisher Radio entered the high-fidelity market with a line of components that sold at premium prices and that audio critics of the time described as the Rolls-Royces of sound equipment. But Mr. Fisher and his European engineers never rested on the company's early reputation; their technical innovations kept it at the forefront of the field. In 1956 Fisher offered the first transistorized amplifier.
        Two years later the company brought out the first stereo radio and phonograph combination. From 1959 to 1961, it made several important improvements in AM-FM stereo tuner design, and it consistently found ways to increase the power and improve the sensitivity of its components.
        "I wanted my equipment to be the best that technology made possible," Mr. Fisher said. "So we didn't cut corners. We weren't the biggest in the world. I'm sure other companies sold more units than we did. But we weren't interested in that."
        When the audio market began to veer toward mass merchandising in the late 1960's, Mr. Fisher decided it was time to leave the field. In 1969 he sold Fisher to Emerson, a St. Louis-based company, for just under $31 million. Emerson, in turn, sold Fisher to Sanyo of Japan. Mr. Fisher maintained a consulting relationship with both Emerson and Sanyo, and made a habit of attending the annual sales meetings, even though he no longer had a financial interest in the company. Paying Back With Interest
        After he sold his company, Mr. Fisher devoted himself mainly to philanthropy, "the repaying of old debts," as he put it. In the early 1970's, for example, he endowed the Avery Fisher Listening Room in the Bobst Library of New York University. "I was a graduate of N.Y.U.," he said, "and I owe a great deal to them because I was there on a working scholarship."
        His most public gift, however, was the endowment fund he gave Lincoln Center, and he frequently described the Avery Fisher Artist Program as especially close to his heart.
        "Music has been my life, and my family's, too," he said in an interview in 1986, on the 10th anniversary of the program.
        The program offers two kinds of annual awards. The larger, more prestigious one is the Avery Fisher Prize, a tax-free $25,000 gift awarded to young American instrumentalists whose careers are already established and whose achievements have made them valued members of their profession. Among the recipients are the pianists Andre Watts, Murray Perahia, Richard Goode, Emanuel Ax and Horacio Gutierrez; the cellists Yo-Yo Ma and Lynn Harrell; the violinist Elmar Oliveira, and the clarinetist Richard Stoltzman.
        The other prize is the Avery Fisher Career Grant, a $10,000 fund against which recipients may draw to cover career-related expenses. The program awards up to five of these grants every year.
        Mr. Fisher counted many musicians among his friends and frequently invited groups of them to his Park Avenue apartment for evenings of chamber music. "It's a busman's holiday for them, and we have a grand old time," he said in 1986.
        In addition to his interests in music and graphic design, Mr. Fisher's hobbies included maintaining and driving old automobiles.
        In addition to his wife of 44 years, the former Janet Cane, Mr. Fisher is survived by two daughters, Barbara Snow of Paris and Nancy Fisher Kirschner of Manhattan, and a son, Charles, of Manhattan.
        Correction:  March 1, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary on Sunday about Avery Fisher, philanthropist and founder of the Fisher electronics company, misstated the length of his marriage to the former Janet Cane, who survives him. They were married 53 years, not 44. In addition, the obituary omitted five survivors; they are his grandchildren.
      