
        Dr. Simon Dack, the founder of The Journal of American Cardiology and its editor in chief for more than 30 years, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center, where he had worked most of his life. He was 85.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Dack was one of the founding fellows of the American College of Cardiology, which was established in 1949, largely by members of the New York Cardiological Society, as a teaching institution and professional society for cardiologists. He was the college's president for a year, beginning in 1956, and was asked before he left to develop an official journal for the institution.
        He was editor in chief of the journal from its inception in 1958 to 1983, when its name was changed to the Journal of the American College of Cardiology. He continued as the publication's editor until he retired in 1992.
        Born in Manhattan, Dr. Dack received his medical degree in 1932 from New York Medical College, where he graduated first in his class. While still an intern at Mount Sinai, he worked with Dr. Arthur M. Master to develop the first cardiac stress test, a precursor of the treadmill stress test, in which patients climbed steps to increase their heart rate.
        During World War II, he served with the Army Medical Corps in North Africa, Italy and France as the chief of a cardiovascular section.
        He returned to Mount Sinai after the war and was named head of the hospital's Adult Cardiac and Prenatal Cardiac Clinic. From 1972 to 1974, he was acting chief of the hospital's division of cardiology.
        His greatest energies throughout his career were directed toward teaching, lecturing and trying to raise the level of knowledge in clinical cardiology through his editorship of the journal. In 1966, when the Mount Sinai School of Medicine was established, he joined the faculty. He remained a member until his death, serving as an emeritus clinical professor of medicine since 1976.
        He held several concurrent teaching positions, including ones at New York Medical College and the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
        Shortly before he died, Dr. Dack was given the American College of Cardiology's Distinguished Service Award.
        Dr. Dack is survived by his wife, Jacqueline; a daughter, Jerilyn Beth Dack of Manhattan; a son, Leonard J., of Bethesda, Md., and two grandchildren.
      