
        Dr. Wilbur J. Gould, a Manhattan throat specialist whose professional skills enabled the ailing voices of stage and opera stars to rise to Broadway's cry that the show must go on, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Maureen. He was 74.
        Voices as diverse as those of Frank Sinatra, Luciano Pavarotti, Linda Ronstadt and Elizabeth Taylor were among the many Dr. Gould ministered to during a medical and surgical career of almost half a century.
        He treated Senator John F. Kennedy when he lost his voice during the 1960 Presidential campaign, and removed a benign polyp from the larynx of President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966.
        After that surgery in Washington, Mr. Johnson sent Dr. Gould a photograph inscribed, "To the only legitimate cut-throat in the White House."
        Dr. Gould also numbered Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Senator Robert F. Kennedy among his political patients, but he was primarily known for his work among people in the entertainment industry, especially in New York. Period of Innovation
        He was an attending otolaryngologist at Lenox Hill Hospital since 1948 and between 1966 and 1979 was the director of its department of otolaryngology -- disorders of the ear, nose and throat -- at a time the hospital pioneered in the treatment of voice problems.
        Dr. Gould was also the inventor of several medical instruments, including the Gould forceps and a laryngoscope, and the co-inventor of an optical laryngoscope.
        He founded the Vocal Dynamics Laboratory at Lenox Hill, an internationally recognized treatment center that specialized in physical problems of the ear, nose and throat and related psychological problems.
        Dr. Gould's interest in the problems of performing artists and singers led Oberlin College to award him an honorary doctorate of music in 1986. The Famous Repay Debts
        He was also a director of the Voice Foundation, which gives scholarships to students of voice disorders and promotes such basic research as how and why vocal tones vary from singer to singer. Walter Cronkite was the master of ceremonies at one foundation dinner at which patients like Al Pacino cut short the curtain calls of their own shows to perform for the 100 guests at the fund-raiser.
        Others with famous voices who consulted Dr. Gould included Anna Moffo, Beverly Sills, Dan Rather, Mike Wallace and Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen.
        Dr. Gould was a 1941 graduate of Harvard College and of the New York University Medical School in 1944. He was a captain in the Army Medical Corps.
        At various times he served on the teaching staffs of New York University, Columbia University and New York Medical College, was a consultant to other academic institutions and an adviser to government health organizations.
        Dr. Gould is survived by his wife of 38 years and his daughter, Tamara Leuchtenburg, both of Manhattan.
      