
        Gen. Lucius D. Clay Jr., a four-star Air Force general who directed Air Force combat operations in Vietnam and later headed the North American Air Defense Command, died last Monday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 74 and lived in Fort Belvoir, Va.
        The cause was cardiac arrest and emphysema, his family said.
        In 1973, General Clay was named commander in chief of the North American Air Defense Command and the United States Air Force Aerospace Defense Command, making him responsible for the air defense of the North American continent. He retired two years later, ending a 37-year career that featured some of the highest positions and honors afforded by the military.
        Lucius DuBignon Clay Jr. was born July 6, 1919, in Alexandria, Va. His grandfather was Senator Alexander Stephens Clay of Georgia, and his father was Gen. Lucius D. Clay Sr. After World War II, the senior General Clay, who died in 1978, commanded American forces in Europe, served as the military governor of the American sector of occupied Germany and was a force behind the 1948-49 Berlin airlift and the rebuilding of West Germany. West Point Graduate
        Like his father, the younger General Clay attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, graduating in 1942. He took flight training and earned his pilot's wings that year.
        In England, the young officer commanded a bomber squadron and flew combat missions against Germany. After the war, he became the deputy commander and deputy for base services with the European Air Depot.
        He returned to the United States in February 1947, having by then risen to the rank of lieutenant colonel, and he transferred to the Air Force, which had recently become a separate branch of the military. He served in several positions at the Pentagon, attended the Air War College and Air University, and held posts that included chief of the Plans Division for the Strategic Air Command and commander of the 12th Air Force, Tactical Air Command, in Waco, Tex.
        In 1966 he was promoted to major general and in 1969 became deputy chief of staff for Plans and Operations. Air Strikes in Vietnam
        In February 1970, he was named vice-commander in chief of the Pacific Air Forces, assuming the command of the Seventh Air Force, which was based in South Vietnam, and overseeing air strikes throughout mainland Southeast Asia. In September 1970, he became a four-star general, and in August 1971, was named commander in chief of the Pacific Air Forces.
        During his career, he received more than 20 decorations and service awards, including the Distinguished Flying Cross, the French Croix de Guerre and the Purple Heart. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal five times and had two Joint Service Commendations.
        At the end of his life, General Clay lived at a military retirement community in Fort Belvoir. His wife, Betty Rose Commander Clay, died in 1992.
        He is survived by four children: Dr. Lucius D. 3d of Princeton, N.J., State Senator Charles C. of Marietta, Ga., Carla Berry of New Rochelle, and Dr. Colin McK. of Fort Collins, Colo.; his brother, Maj. Gen. Frank B. Clay, retired, of Chevy Chase, Md., and six grandchildren.
      