
        Randy Shilts, the author of best-selling books on AIDS and gay issues and a newspaper reporter for The San Francisco Chronicle, died yesterday at his home in Guerneville, Calif. He was 42 and also had a home in San Francisco.
        The cause was AIDS, said Linda Alband, his assistant.
        Mr. Shilts was one of the first journalists to recognize AIDS as an important national issue. In the early 1980's he persuaded The Chronicle to let him report on AIDS full time. His work resulted in the widely acclaimed 1987 book "And the Band Played On: Politics, People and the AIDS Epidemic." The book, a history of the first five years of the epidemic, charged the Reagan Administration, the medical establishment and even some gay organizations with indifference to the disease.
        "Any good reporter could have done this story," Mr. Shilts said in a newspaper interview at the time, "but I think the reason I did it, and no one else did, is because I am gay. It was happening to people I cared about and loved."
        Mr. Shilts was born in Davenport, Iowa, and grew up in Aurora, Ill., near Chicago, in a politically conservative and religious household. As a teen-ager, he founded a local chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom. His Coming Out
        While attending the University of Oregon in Eugene, where he studied journalism and was managing editor of the student newspaper, he openly declared his homosexuality. He became head of the Eugene Gay People's Alliance.
        After receiving his bachelor's degree in 1975, he worked briefly as the Northwest correspondent for The Advocate, a gay publication, before moving to San Francisco, where for the next three years he was a Advocate staff writer.
        In 1977, while still working for The Advocate, he began a three-year stint reporting for television station KQED in San Francisco. From 1979 to 1980 he also reported on city politics and gay issues for KTVU television in Oakland.
        In 1982 he was hired as a reporter for The Chronicle, which made him a national correspondent in 1988.
        In 1982, Mr. Shilts published "The Mayor of Castro Street: The Life and Times of Harvey Milk." The book chronicled the life and career of Milk, a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and a champion of gay rights. He was assassinated in 1978, along with the city's mayor, George Moscone, by a former supervisor opposed to a pending rights bill for homosexuals.
        Mr. Shilts did not always please all homosexuals with his reporting. While on the AIDS beat in the early 80's, he discussed the dangers of San Francisco's bathhouses and anonymous sex in the spread of AIDS. And he later attacked the practice of outing, or revealing the homosexuality of public figures, unless the targets promoted anti-gay policies. Both positions were opposed by some homosexuals. 'An AIDS Celebrity'
        Although Mr. Shilts said that he did not expect "And the Band Played On," which was published by St. Martin's Press, to be a commercial success, the book took off, remaining five weeks on the New York Times best-seller list, and turned him into what he called "an AIDS celebrity." The book was nominated for a National Book Award and was made into an HBO movie in 1993 that attracted the participation of stars like Richard Gere, Matthew Modine and Anjelica Huston.
        Mr. Shilts followed up with "Conduct Unbecoming: Lesbians and Gays in the U.S. Military, Vietnam to the Persian Gulf" (1993, St. Martin's Press), which he said he intended to be "my definitive book on homophobia." Based on interviews with military personnel and Government records obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, the book traced the history of persecution of homosexuals in the military. It was on the best-seller list six weeks.
        In 1987, on the day he turned in the manuscript for "And the Band Played On," Mr. Shilts found out that he had tested positive for HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. In August 1992, he developed full-blown AIDS. Later that year his left lung collapsed. He completed the final pages of "Conduct Unbecoming" in a hospital bed.
        For fear of letting his personal situation influence his reporting, he kept his illness secret until February 1993. In a magazine interview, he said, "Every gay writer who tests positive ends up being an AIDS activist. I wanted to keep on being a reporter."
        He is survived by his companion, Barry Barbieri, and four brothers: Gary, of Aurora, Ill; Reed, of Billerica, Mass.; David, of Michigan, and Dennis, who teaches in Poland.
      