
        Dr. Howard M. Temin, a cancer researcher who won the Nobel Prize for his role in discovering an enzyme that overturned a central tenet of molecular biology, died of lung cancer Wednesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 59.
        The enzyme, reverse transcriptase, later played a crucial role in identifying the AIDS virus. It also became the underpinning of much of the biotechnology industry and was crucial to the genetic engineering that has produced drugs like human insulin and tpa, a clot-dissolving agent that stops heart attacks in progress.
        Dr. Temin, an ardent crusader against cigarettes, never smoked. His lung cancer, adenocarcinoma, was a type that is not linked to smoking, said officials of the University of Wisconsin, where he worked for 34 years.
        A soft-spoken man who kept trim by walking long distances and bicycling, Dr. Temin did not hesitate to speak out for his firm convictions, including those on smoking. When he received his Nobel award in Stockholm in 1975 from King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden, Dr. Temin bowed to the King and then turned and scolded members of the audience at the ceremony for smoking when he was being honored for his efforts to combat cancer. Shared Prize With 2 Others
        The Nobel committee cited Dr. Temin for "discoveries concerning the interaction between tumor viruses and the genetic material of the cell." He shared the prize with his former professor, Dr. Renato Dulbecco, and another researcher, Dr. David Baltimore. Dr. Temin's award was for his role in discovering reverse transcriptase, the enzyme that helps certain viruses subvert the genetic machinery of the cells they infect. Dr. Temin found the enzyme in a virus that causes cancer in chickens, while Dr. Baltimore independently discovered reverse transcriptase in a virus that causes cancer in mice.
        Dr. Temin's award came after a lonely battle to overcome derisive criticism from scientific leaders who refused to believe in his theory that some viruses carry their genetic information in the form of RNA, which is then copied into DNA in infected cells. This theory challenged what then was known as the "central dogma" in biology, that that deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) always passed information on to ribonucleic acid (RNA) and never the other way around.
        "The idea that RNA could make DNA was considered ludicrous," said Dr. Robin Weiss, a leading virologist in London, in an interview.
        For six years Dr. Temin persisted against the criticism until he identified the enzyme, reverse transcriptase, that proved the theory. Produced Discoveries
        Dr. J. Michael Bishop, who won a Nobel Prize in 1989, said Dr. Temin had "an exceptional, independent intellect and imagination that produces discoveries, and he produced them."
        In an interview yesterday, Dr. Bishop recalled entering the field and watching "Howard go from a figure thought by some to be irresponsible and lax in interpreting data to be a lion overnight." He added: "It was quite a lesson for me in intellectual courage because he just toughed it. He was not adversarial and not strident. He was way ahead of the pack, carrying the banner and taking a lot of flak for it, and he was in a humbling position for quite a while."
        Howard Martin Temin was born in Philadelphia in 1934. His father was a lawyer and his mother was active in educational affairs. Dr. Temin said his interest in biological research was spurred by participating in a summer program for high school students at the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Me., and a summer at the Institute for Cancer Research in Philadelphia. He published his first scientific paper at age 18, and when he graduated from Swarthmore College, his yearbook described him as "one of the future giants in experimental biology."
        He earned his Ph.D. at California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, where he began investigating how a virus causes cancer in animals. The research was for a thesis, written under Dr. Dulbecco. Worked in a Basement
        In 1960, Dr. Temin moved to the University of Wisconsin. Working in the basement near a sump and under steam pipes, he began the experiments that led to the Nobel Prize.
        At the time, scientists knew there were RNA and DNA viruses. But unlike most other scientists, Dr. Temin was puzzled why RNA viruses were an exception to central dogma.
        Long before the discovery of reverse transcriptase, Dr. Temin suspected its existence and in 1964 he suggested that some animal viruses might carry the enzyme. Its presence would permit duplication of the virus's RNA into DNA for better biological adjustment after the virus entered a DNA-dominated animal cell.
        The early hope was that the enzyme would help unlock the secrets of human cancers. Although viruses have long been known to cause cancers in animals, Dr. Temin went on to express doubt that viruses played a central role in causing human cancer. More important, he believed, were genetic mutations in cells that could be produced by a number of factors like chemicals, physical agents and viruses. He came to believe that some of the most immediate gains in cancer prevention would result from the reduction in smoking. Viruses and Retroviruses
        Scientists found that a group of viruses depended on reverse transcriptase, and they are known as retroviruses. Scientists also found that viruses in other groups, like the liver-damaging Hepatitis B virus and a plant virus, cauliflower mosaic virus, also depend on reverse transcriptase.
        H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, is a retrovirus. The discovery of reverse transcriptase "set the stage for the relatively rapid and persuasive identification of H.I.V.," Dr. Bishop said. He added:
        "I can't imagine we would know a lot about the virus without the enzyme."
        It was reverse transcriptase that researchers at the Institute Pasteur in Paris relied on to detect what they first called LAV and that later became known as H.I.V. Although scientists might have discovered H.I.V. without reverse transcriptase, Dr. Bishop said, its availability saved months to years of research. Important in Industry
        Much of the biotechnology industry depends on reverse transcriptase. The enzyme has proven to be an essential reagent for the biotechnology industry through a technique known as complementary DNA or expression cloning. RNA cannot be cloned. But RNA can be extracted from cells, turned into DNA through reverse transcriptase, and then cloned.
        "Without complementary DNA we would not be cloning so many genes as we do, and half the world's biotechnology industry would not be in business," Dr. Weiss said.
        Dr. Temin had a profound effect in teaching students and colleagues by being a terror and a mentor in the same session. Though some who went through the experience felt emotionally wounded, they also said that Dr. Temin's criticisms helped improve the quality of their scientific work. Dr. Weiss recalled a 1968 visit by Dr. Temin to his lab in London: "He tore up my work and I felt about two inches high. Then he built me up again, saying 'This work is very important but you haven't done the right experiment yet.' " Dr. Weiss added, "There was no sloppy thinking when you were in Howard's presence." Praised by Colleague
        Dr. June Osborn, a virologist who is now the dean of the University of Michigan School of Public Health in Ann Arbor, who said she became close friends with Dr. Temin over the 16 years that they had taught together in Madison, described him as "totally focused, he had incredible control that kept him from getting distracted."
        She recalled walking into his office with another professor just hours after Dr. Temin learned that he had won the Nobel Prize. Though happy to see his friends, Dr. Temin complained that he could not get work done because of the sudden attention thrust on him.
        Dr. Weiss said that Dr. Temin "was not a Nobel Prize winner who rested on his laurels -- it did not go to his head." Dr. Weiss added, "He continued to publish thought-provoking papers" until his last illness.
        Dr. Temin was also a nature admirer, and upon learning of his own cancer diagnosis had 800 daffodil bulbs planted in his garden.
        Dr. Temin was a winner of an Albert Lasker award, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, on the editorial boards of several scientific journals and advised many groups about AIDS research and the development of an AIDS vaccine.
        He leaves his wife, Rayla Greenberg Temin, a medical geneticist at the University of Wisconsin; two daughters, Sarah, of Berkeley, Calif., and Miriam, of San Francisco; and two brothers, Michael, of Philadelphia, and Peter, of Cambridge, Mass.
      