
        Saul Weprin, the Speaker of the New York State Assembly since 1991 and a political fixture in Queens and Albany for more than three decades, died yesterday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens. He was 66.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said Michael Moran, an Assembly spokesman. A Democrat from Fresh Meadows, Queens, Mr. Weprin had been in failing health since November, when he underwent pancreatic surgery. His recovery was proceeding slowly when he suffered a debilitating stroke on Jan. 18.
        With the permission of Mr. Weprin's family, the Democratic-majority Assembly elected Assemblyman Sheldon Silver of Manhattan as Interim Speaker on Jan. 24 to serve in Mr. Weprin's place. Under rules adopted by the Assembly at that time, Mr. Silver automatically became Speaker yesterday upon Mr. Weprin's death.
        Mr. Weprin's relatively brief tenure as Speaker was notable less for his legislative accomplishments than for the feeling of stability and collegiality he restored after the conviction of his predecessor, Mel Miller, on Federal fraud charges. That conviction was later overturned on appeal. Seeker of Consensus
        Mr. Weprin's colleagues considered him an immensely likeable, almost grandfatherly, leader who sought to forge consensus among his diverse Democratic caucus. He was described so frequently in print as "the affable Speaker" that he often introduced himself that way. He sometimes joked with reporters that he wished they would catch him in some indiscretion so he could spice up his reputation.
        State leaders from both parties remembered him warmly today.
        "Saul Weprin's only motivation was to do what was right, and no one had a surer sense of what is right," said Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. "His were an enlightened politics, shaped by his love for all people, and his faith in their innate goodness and potential for triumph."
        Mr. Silver said that "Saul proved what none of us can afford to forget, that it is possible to lead with grace and wit and humility."
        The Senate Majority Leader, Ralph J. Marino, a Republican from Oyster Bay, L.I., and a frequent opponent across the negotiating table, said Mr. Weprin "never lost a willingness to listen to other voices. He mixed intelligence, dedication and humor to create a lifetime of achievement." No Ego Problem
        Bald and slight of stature, Mr. Weprin cut a vaguely Chaplinesque figure as he shuffled through the hallways of the Capitol. He was utterly self-effacing, lacking the oversized ego of many politicians.
        Mr. Weprin was never tainted by scandal, other than the questions raised about his participation in much-beloved poker games that included Albany lobbyists. He grudgingly gave up the card games after newspaper articles disclosed the practice.
        But Mr. Weprin's good nature and warm heart cloaked a shrewd insider's mastery of legislative politics. Shortly after Mr. Miller was indicted, Mr. Weprin began to quietly solicit support for the Speaker's job. Within 24 hours of Mr. Miller's conviction, he had locked up the votes he needed. His colleagues, who appreciate political acumen above all else, considered it a dazzling performance.
        "This is not the way I wanted to become Speaker," Mr. Weprin told members of the Assembly at the time.
        But once he was elected, Mr. Weprin's manner of ascendancy never seemed to curtail his enjoyment of the job.
        During his two years as Speaker, he served as a member of a powerful triumvirate, along with Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Marino.
        A staunch opponent of the death penalty and a supporter of abortion rights, Mr. Weprin did not shun the liberal label. But he also said he would not be bound by traditional Assembly positions.
        As Speaker, Mr. Weprin pushed a gay-rights bill through the Assembly for the first time, sought to increase state aid for schools in New York City, and defended the state's Medicaid and welfare programs against deep cuts proposed by the Republican-controlled Senate.  Other Achievements
        Also under his watch, the state directed more money to community mental health programs, extended rent regulations, lowered workers' compensation insurance costs, set aside money for land preservation and other environmental purposes, required health insurers to accept all applicants regardless of risk and adopted clean air regulations.
        He failed, however, to convince the Senate to join his call for major changes in the state's election laws.
        Mr. Weprin felt the greatest demonstration of his leadership was the passage of two consecutive budgets virtually on time. The year before he became Speaker, the budget was passed 95 days after the April 1 start of the fiscal year. In Mr. Weprin's two years, the budget was passed on April 2 and April 5. He credited himself for making timeliness a priority. The Hardest Call
        The most difficult decision of Mr. Weprin's tenure came in May 1993 after Edward V. Regan resigned his position as State Comptroller in the middle of his term. The State Constitution required the Legislature to choose his successor. Because Mr. Weprin controlled the largest bloc of votes, it fell to him to choose between H. Carl McCall, who is black, and Carol Bellamy, a woman. Both had strong support within the Assembly, and Mr. Weprin's eventual choice of Mr. McCall deeply alienated the women in his chamber.
        It also reinforced the notion among many Assembly members that Mr. Weprin was too close to Mr. Cuomo, who had supported Mr. McCall. Both men came of age in the same Democratic club in Queens, and Mr. Weprin encouraged Mr. Cuomo to pursue politics as a career.
        Mr. Weprin was born on Aug. 5, 1927, in Brooklyn, the son of a wholesale food dealer and a housewife who emigrated to New York from the Kiev area. He graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School, Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School. He served in the United States Coast Guard in 1945. Began in Late 1950's
        He practiced law for most of his adult life, giving up his practice only after being elected Speaker. He got his start in politics in the late 1950's after becoming president of his cooperative apartment board in Hollis, Queens, and served as Democratic leader of the 24th Assembly District since 1962. In 1971, he ran for and won an open Assembly seat.
        In the Assembly, Mr. Weprin served as chairman of the Commerce Committee, the Judiciary Committee and the Ways and Means Committee before becoming Speaker.
        Mr. Weprin's funeral will be tomorrow at 2 p.m. at Hillcrest Jewish Center in Queens.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Matz, a retired teacher; three sons, Barry of Westchester County and David and Mark of Queens; seven grandchildren, and a brother, Jack, of Manhattan.
      