
        Dr. David S. Olton, a psychology professor at Johns Hopkins University who researched the brain's memory systems, died on Tuesday at a friend's home in Bethesda, Md. He was 51 and lived in Phoenix, Md., a suburb of Baltimore.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, a university spokesman said.
        Dr. Olton, a neuroscientist, was an expert on the biological basis of learning and how aging affects memory. He focused on the memory system in a section of the brain called the hippocampus and investigated drug therapies to stem memory loss caused by aging.
        The brain stores memory at sites throughout the cortex. Although it is not fully understood how, the hippocampus links the separate parts of a memory as it is formed, so that the whole is retrieved when the memory is recalled. Memory Improvements in Rats
        By using animal models of the same memory system, Dr. Olton explored practical applications to protect the hippocampal cells.
        "We have found, for example, that if we look at old rats and old monkeys, their memory systems get old just as humans' do," he told an interviewer in 1991.
        In recent research, Dr. Olton and an associate, Dr. Alicja Markowska, found that rats treated with a compound called nerve growth factor learned better and their memories were improved. A paper on their findings is to be published in The Journal of Neuroscience. Dr. Markowska predicted that the drug might one day be useful in treating Alzheimer's disease.
        Dr. Olton was born in Montclair, N.J., and graduated from Haverford College. In 1969, he received a Ph.D. at the University of Michigan in 1969 and joined the department of psychology at Johns Hopkins. He was chairman of the department from 1982 to 1987 and at his death headed its behavioral biology program.
        Dr. Olton is survived by his father, the Rev. Robert Matthew Olton of Charlottesville, Va.; a sister, Judith Olton Mueller of McLean, Va., and a brother, Robert M. Jr., of Belmont, Calif. He was separated from his wife, Lisbeth Redfield Olton of Annapolis, Md.
      