
        Dr. Bruce Voeller, a specialist on human sexuality and sexually transmitted diseases who was in the forefront of the fight against AIDS, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Topanga, Calif. He was 59.
        The cause was AIDS-related, said Richard Liuck, his companion and associate at the Mariposa Education and Research Foundation in Topanga.
        At his death, Dr. Voeller was president of the foundation, which he founded in 1978 to conduct research in the field of human sexuality in general and to find ways to reduce the risks of diseases related to it.
        He was also widely recognized as an authority on homosexuality, AIDS research and the gay-rights movement, in which he was long active. He was a founder of the National Gay Task Force, an influential lobbying group for gay rights, in 1973, and was its executive director from then until 1978. During his tenure, he brought in Jean O'Leary as co-director and prepared the way for an alliance with lesbian groups. The organization, now the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, is based in Washington. Author of Science Books
        Bruce Raymond Voeller was born in Minneapolis and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Reed College. He won a five-year fellowship at the Rockefeller Institute to complete his doctoral studies in biochemistry, developmental biology and genetics. He became a research associate there in 1961, an assistant professor two years later and an associate professor in 1966.
        At Rockefeller he published four books, including "Basic Biology" (1970), with Alfred M. Elliott, and "Three Centuries of Botany in North America" (1967), with Paul F. Cranefield.
        He also edited "The Chromosome of Inheritance" (1968) and co-edited "AIDS and Sex: An Integrated Biomedical and Behavioral Approach" (1990). In addition, he wrote scores of papers and articles and was a consultant to public, academic and private bodies.
        His academic associations included Hunter College and Cornell University. Much of his recent research involved condoms and spermicides, and he was a consultant on the subject to Consumers Union.
        His Mariposa Foundation is supported largely by private contributions, as well as public research grants.
        The foundation commissioned a George Segal sculpture of four homosexuals that was placed in Christopher Park at Seventh Avenue South and Christopher Street in Greenwich Village. The area is the site of the 1969 Stonewall riot, which helped fuel a national movement for gay rights. The statue initially drew protests from several groups for a variety of reasons, including some gay men and lesbians who said that any symbol picturing only white people was an assault on the gay movement.
        Dr. Voeller and his wife, Dr. Kytja Scott Voeller, were divorced after he announced, at the age of 29, that he was gay.
        Besides Mr. Liuck, he is survived by two sons, Jan, of Boulder, Colo., and Christopher, of Toledo, Ohio; a daughter, Dr. Suzanne Sundheim of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Nancy Petron of Sacramento, Calif.; and Ginger Ferguson, a resident of British Columbia.
        Correction:  February 25, 1994, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Dr. Bruce Voeller, a specialist on human sexuality and sexually transmitted diseases, misspelled the surname of his companion, who was his associate at the Mariposa Education and Research Foundation in Topanga, Calif. He is Richard Lucik.
      