
        Lieut. Gen. Eugene F. Tighe Jr., who headed the Defense Intelligence Agency from 1978 to 1981 and investigated the possibility that of American prisoners of war remained in Indochina, died on Jan. 29 at his home in San Diego. He was 72.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his son Steven.
        General Tighe, who retired from the Air Force in 1981, spoke out before Congressional panels and in other settings about American prisoners of war and other subjects related to military intelligence.
        He headed a Pentagon panel that concluded in 1986, after a five-month review of intelligence files, that American prisoners of war were still alive in Vietnam and other parts of Southeast Asia. That was the first time in years that a Defense Department investigation had found that Vietnam might indeed still hold American prisoners of war. The report prompted dissent from many in the military, especially among those who felt that General Tighe was a zealot about the issue. Career in Intelligence
        He said at the time that his panel could not say how many of the missing Americans were alive. The panel also concluded that there had been no effort by the military to conceal evidence that Americans were still being held.
        The General was named director of the intelligence agency by President Jimmy Carter after serving as assistant Air Force chief of staff for intelligence. He retired from the Air Force after 39 years of active and reserve Air Force and Army duty, which included service as an officer with an antiaircraft battery during World War II in the southwest Pacific, Korea and Vietnam.
        Before becoming the director of the agency, he had been its deputy director and acting director for two years. He had also held the senior intelligence positions at the headquarters of the United States Air Force, the Strategic Air Command, the United States Pacific command and the Air Force in the Pacific.
        He was born in New Raymer, Colo., and grew up there and in Los Angeles. He was drafted into the Army in 1942 and became a reserve officer in the Air Force in 1946. He earned a bachelor's degree in 1949 from Loyola University in Los Angeles, and went on active Air Force duty the next year.
        In retirement he was an international-security consultant, served on corporate boards and was a regent of Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles.
        In addition to his son Steven C., of Bronxville, N.Y., his survivors include his wife of more than 40 years, the former Gwen Turk; two other sons, Maj. Eugene F. Tighe, of Washington and Dr. Thomas Tighe, of Fresno, Calif.; six sisters; a brother, and three grandchildren.
      