
        Edward E. Rigney, a retired Manhattan lawyer and former Federal prosecutor whom New York State sent to uncover graft and corruption in Suffolk County in the 1950's, died on Saturday at St. Patrick's Manor, a nursing home in Framingham, Mass. He was 85 and had lived in Manhattan until about two years ago.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Rigney quit Columbia University Law School during the Depression to manage his family's general store in his home town of Holcomb, N.Y., near Rochester. He was a 1931 graduate of Hobart College and earned his law degree at Fordham Law School in 1936.
        He became an assistant United States Attorney in New York and was assigned cases involving mainly tax and mail fraud, counterfeiting and bribery. He entered the United States Army as a private in World War II, worked in the Military Intelligence Section and rose to the rank of captain.
        He was a prosecutor at the war-crimes trials in Nuremberg, serving as a staff member of the United States Chief of Counsel. Deputy Police Commissioner
        He returned to the United States Attorney's Office in New York, but in 1950 Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri appointed him a deputy city Police Commissioner and confidential assistant to his new Police Commissioner, Thomas F. Murphy. Mr. Rigley was to serve as a trouble-shooter for Mr. Murphy, who knew him from their time as prosecutors. Mr. Rigley resigned within months to join a private law firm.
        A Democrat, he returned to public office in 1957 when Jacob K. Javits, the new United States Senator and outgoing State Attorney General, named him Special Prosecutor investigating scandals in Suffolk County. Mr. Javits's fellow Republican and successor in Albany, Louis Lefkowitz, kept Mr. Rigney and vowed to make the inquiry into official wrongdoing a top priority.
        Court cases and some convictions grew out of it, but in 1959 Mr. Rigney resigned, charging that the Republican-controlled Albany Legislature had cut his budget as he was moving in on powerful party figures. "It now seems certain that much wrongdoing and corruption in Suffolk County will go unpunished," he declared.
        As a law partner, he was for many years associated with one of the country's oldest firms, Alexander & Green, now Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green. He retired about 10 years ago when he became of counsel.
        Mr. Rigney's wife, Margaret Gardiner Rigney, died in 1975. He is survived by a daughter, Mary Kate Bluestein of Brookline, Mass.; two grandchildren, and his companion of many years, Marianne Strong.
      