
        Dr. Sheldon M. Wolff, an authority on infectious diseases who championed the cause of increased Federal research support for AIDS, died on Wednesday at the New England Medical Center in Boston. Dr. Wolff, who lived in Wellesley, Mass., was 63.
        The cause was complications from a renal malignancy, said his wife, Lila.
        Dr. Wolff was the physician-in-chief at the New England Medical Center as well as the chairman of the department of medicine at the Tufts University School of Medicine.
        He served in leadership roles on several prominent advisory panels to the Federal Government, most recently in 1986. He was then the co-chairman of an Institute of Medicine review panel that urged that Federal funds for AIDS research be quadrupled so that new avenues of approach could be opened to find a cure for the disease. Worked on Drug Development
        The group's study, entitled "Confronting AIDS," was the culmination of six months of investigation. It became an outline for a public health strategy for structuring research into the disease. Dr. Wolff subsequently directed an Institute of Medicine group concerned with the development of drugs and vaccines for AIDS.
        In 1982 he was the chairman of a panel convened by the National Institutes of Health that concluded that high-absorbency tampons were associated with a much higher risk of toxic shock syndrome.
        Much of Dr. Wolff's own research was directed at the treatment of fevers from infectious diseases like Wegener's granulomatosis and familial Mediterranean fever, for which he helped to demonstrate new therapies. 17 Years in Washington
        Dr. Wolff went to the New England Medical Center in 1977 after 17 years in Washington. In Washington, he was clinical director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and chief of its laboratory of clinical investigation.
        Dr. Wolff was the author of more than 300 scientific papers and book chapters. Born in Newark, he attended the University of Georgia on a music scholarship and intended to become a professional drummer until a hospitalization in college led to an interest in medicine. He received an M.D. from Vanderbilt University.
        He is survived by his wife; his mother, Margaret Wolff of Elizabeth, N.J.; his brother, David of Springfield, N.J.; two sons, Brad of Voorhees, N.J., and Daniel of Waltham, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      