
        Adam Kaufman, a Polish emigre and retired economist who was with the United Nations and the National Bureau of Economic Research, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said his son, Michael T. Kaufman.
        The elder Mr. Kaufman retired 30 years ago as a planning economist with the United Nations. Before that he worked for the National Bureau of Economic Research examining the implications of statistics published by the Soviet Government. He was the author of several books on the Soviet economy.
        In his youth in Poland, he was a Communist revolutionary. He was later expelled by the Communist Party and fled the country in which he had already spent almost 10 years in jail for political activism. He went first to Czechoslovakia, then France, and finally reached the United States in 1941. A Return to Poland
        Mr. Kaufman was the subject of an account of his return to Poland written by his son, then the Warsaw bureau chief of The New York Times. The article, which appeared in The New York Times Magazine in 1985, described a visit that Mr. Kaufman made to Poland, where he had lived 50 years before.
        In Lodz, father and son walked in a weedy, large Jewish cemetery. This is how the article described it: "As we looked fruitlessly for family stones, he was obviously sifting the past. 'I see now that it was inevitable that I became a Communist,' he said. He went on, 'I was poor, Jewish and hungered for answers. The Russian Revolution took place during my adolescence, and Poland was reborn. I wanted desperately to enter into the wonderful romantic sweep of Polish history. One way would have been conversion to Catholicism, which for me was impossible. Another way was the party. It was inevitable, but still a moral mistake.' "
        During World War II Mr. Kaufman worked for the War Department compiling a Russian-English dictionary. He then worked for the United States Army teaching Russian at Indiana University. After the war he graduated from the New School.
        He is survived by his son, who writes the About New York column for The Times, and three grandchildren.
      