
        Pierre Boulle, the author of "The Bridge Over the River Kwai," "Planet of the Apes" and other novels and short stories, died on Sunday in Paris, The Associated Press reported. He was 81 and lived in Paris.
        Mr. Boulle was born in Avignon. After earning a degree in electrical engineering at the Ecole Superieure d'Electricite in Paris, he spent two years in France as an engineer before moving to Malaysia in 1938 to oversee a rubber plantation near Kuala Lumpur.
        In 1939, Mr. Boulle joined the French army in Indochina. After the fall of France, he fled to Singapore, where he joined the Free French and became a secret agent. Posing as an Englishman named Peter John Rule, he helped organize resistance to the Japanese in China, Burma and Indochina.  An Arranged Escape
        In 1943, while trying to float down the Mekong River on a raft and make his way into Hanoi, he was captured by the Vichy French and sentenced to life at hard labor. While in prison, he began keeping a diary on scraps of paper.
        In 1944, with an Allied victory looming, authorities at Mr. Boulle's prison in Saigon arranged for his escape. He returned briefly to his plantation, but then returned to France to begin a career as a writer.
        His wartime experiences led to several books, the most famous being "The Bridge Over the River Kwai" (1954), about Allied prisoners of war at a Japanese camp in Southeast Asia who are forced to build a bridge for their captors that becomes a target for Allied commandos. Last Book Was in 1992
        The novel was made into the 1957 film "The Bridge on the River Kwai," directed by David Lean and starring William Holden and Sir Alec Guinness.
        Mr. Boulle's other books, many of them tales of adventure or espionage that dealt with moral problems, include "William Conrad" (1952), "Face of a Hero" (1956), "The Test" (1957), "A Noble Profession" (1960) and "Ears of the Jungle" (1972). His novel "Planet of the Apes" (1963), the story of a world where talking apes have power over man, was made into a movie in 1968 starring Charlton Heston.
        He published two books of memoirs, "My Own River Kwai" (1967), about his wartime experiences, and "L'Ilon" (1990), about his childhood.
        His most recent book, "A Nous Deux, Satan," was published in France in 1992.
        Mr. Boulle was an officer of the Legion of Honor, and a recipient of the Croix de Guerre and the Medal of the Resistance.
        No immediate family members survive.
      