
        Ellsworth Vines, the lanky, big-serving Californian who won the national tennis championship twice and Wimbledon once in the 1930's and has been revered ever since as one of the game's greatest players, died Thursday at his home in La Quinta, Calif.
        Vines, who abandoned tennis in 1940 for a second career as a professional golfer, was 82. The cause of death was complications from kidney disease.
        Vines was that rare combination, a precision power player who not only aimed for the corners but hit them often enough with such blistering force that there are those who still maintain tennis has yet to see his equal.
        His 6-4, 6-2, 6-0 victory over Bunny Austin in 1932 was called the era's most overwhelming mastery of an opponent in a Wimbledon final, and his five-set loss to Jack Crawford the next year was hailed as Wimbledon's greatest match.
        Even those who would rank Bill Tilden or other players higher would not dispute the widely accepted notion that Vines, in long pants with his little wooden racket, served and stroked as hard as anyone before or since. Quicker Than the Eye
        The ultimate tribute came at Wimbledon in 1932 when Vines closed out the championship match with an ace of such blinding speed that the hapless Austin said he had no idea whether the ball had passed to his left or his right.
        What set Vines apart from other power players was his versatility and his accuracy. His forehand was as feared as his serve, and although known as a serve-and-volley player, he was often a serve-and-serve player. He generally averaged two aces per four-point game and would regularly rip off four in a row, as he did in the 1932 Wimbledon final, scoring 30 aces in 12 service games for a 2.5 average.
        For all his overpowering skill, much of the excitement Vines created on the court came from his come-from-behind charges. In the typical Vines match he would lose the first two sets and come within a point of defeat in the third before staging an incredible comeback.
        Sometimes, of course, he would lose, usually to himself. His all-or-nothing style left no margin for error. When his game was on it was close to perfect. When it was off, it was gone. Disciple of Beasley
        Although he was a natural athlete of finely tuned balance and power, Henry Ellsworth Vines Jr., who was born in Pasadena, Calif., in 1911, brought more than innate ability to the court. His game was honed by one of the sport's most acclaimed coaches, Mercer Beasley.
        Beasley, who became his coach when Vines was 15, flattened his serve and forehand into the rifle shots they became and used ingenuity in developing his fabled accuracy. A narrow strip of canvas with cutouts would be stretched across the top of the net, and Vines would spend hours drilling balls through the holes.
        Vines came East for the first time in July 1930 and promptly beat two of the game's biggest guns, Frank Hunter and Frank Shields. By the time he beat them both again a week later, he was being hailed as the second coming of William Tatem Tilden 2d.
        Success was short-lived. After Vines suffered two crushing losses, to Sidney Wood and Bryan Grant, the 37-year-old Tilden, limping on an injured leg, dispatched the 18-year-old upstart in straight sets. Thought He Was Through
        After elimination in the third round at Forest Hills, Vines returned to California suffering a crisis of confidence.
        "I guess I'm just a false alarm," he said.
        He was back the next year, however, and on fire. When he beat Bruce Barnes in Houston in April, it was noted that at times his serve "knocked the racket out of Barnes's hand."
        After he won the clay court championship in St. Louis, the New York press was in full gush about "the ambling, dour-visaged California stripling," who hit with "stunning speed and precision." The New York Times tennis writer, Alison Danzig, noting that Vines had won all but 2 of some 50 matches during the year, praised his "perfect timing and full leverage," and marveled that the drives hit by the 150-pound youngster "travel with the velocity of a bullet."
        In the final of the national championship, he put on "one of the most sensational exhibitions of machine-gun shooting ever witnessed at Forest Hills," in defeating George Lott. Annihilated Australian
        For all the lasting fame of his 50-minute victory over Austin in the 1932 Wimbledon final, Vines's severest test came in the semifinals when he faced Crawford, the Australian champion, and demolished him, 6-2, 6-1, 6-3.
        "Even such a score cannot tell what an annihilating defeat it was," ran the Times account. "His backhand drives streaked across the net like Tilden's forehand cannonballs."
        He lost to Jean Borota of France on the first day of Davis Cup play, but then beat Henri Cochet, the recognized world champion.
        When the two met again in the final at Forest Hills, 15,000 fans "looked on spellbound," as Danzig put in in The Times, as "the towering 20-year-old youth from Pasadena, Calif., blighted the game of the most gifted artist of the courts."
        If there was any doubt about Cochet's gifts, Vines, whose game tended to rise or fall with the quality of his opposition, dispelled it by disposing of the world champion in straight sets.
        For Vines, now the recognized world champion, 1933 started badly, with a defeat by the 16-year-old Vivian McGrath in the Australian championships, and ended worse, with a straight sets loss to Grant at Forest Hills in a fourth-round match marked by repeated misfires by Vines. World Professional Champion
        Asked later why he had not eased up to improve his aim, Vines seemed indignant. "If I had played it differently," he said, "it wouldn't have been my game."
        Turning pro, Vines regained his form and reigned as the world professional champion for five years.
        Then in 1940, after Don Budge turned pro and established his supremacy, Vines abandoned tennis for golf.
        In his 15-year career, he never won a Professional Golfers Association tournament, but was almost always in contention.
        Vines is survived by his wife of 62 years, Verle; a son, Ellsworth Vines Jr., of San Diego, and a daughter, Edie Vines, of Orange, Calif.
        Services will be held April 1 at the Church of Religious Science in Palm Desert, Calif.
      