
        Dr. Richard Francis Strong Starr, an archeologist who explored the ancient world in the days of arduous travel and later served the Government as an expert on the Middle East, died on March 9 at Morningside House in Leesburg, Va. He was 94 and lived in Upperville, Va.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Sixty-five years ago, Dr. Starr led an expedition to Nuzi, in Iraq, that unearthed the world's oldest map and armor. The map was dated to 2500 B.C.
        A native of Eau Claire, Wis., he had just graduated from Cornell University when he joined a Harvard expedition to the cave temples of Tun-huang, an ancient military outpost in western China, and made a photographic record of its wall paintings. He studied Mandarin in Beijing and traveled by pony and oxcart for 1,800 miles along the Silk Road. Rafting on Yellow River
        His journey home started down the Yellow River on a raft buoyed by inflated sheepskins and proceeded via Indochina, Malaya, Java, Burma, India and Europe. Back at Harvard he became associated with the Fogg Museum of Art. He joined the initial Harvard-Baghdad School dig at Nuzi, near Kirkuk, and directed operations there from 1929 to 1931. Among other findings, the dig turned up cuneiform tablets of an ancient people, the Horites, who are mention in the Bible but who had otherwise been unknown.
        He completed his doctorate at Princeton University in 1938 with a two-volume account of the Nuzi excavations. "Arabic was our language of communication," he wrote of his work force. "We became quite fluent though spectacularly ungrammatical."
        Pearl Harbor changed his scholarly life. He served in the Office of Naval Intelligence from 1942 to 1946 and held the rank of captain in the Naval Reserve. After that he served the State Department as research specialist on the Middle East and filled the same position in the Central Intelligence Agency for four years until his retirement in 1965.
        He was also a student of Civil War history and collected hundreds of antique tools.
        Dr. Starr's wife of 52 years, Dorothy Simpson Starr, died in 1982. He is survived by a son, Nicholas, also of Upperville, and two grandsons.
      