
        Harry Kondoleon, the author of 17 plays and 2 novels who in recent years made his life and his writings a testament to the ravages of AIDS, died yesterday in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 39.
        The cause was AIDS, said his sister, Christine Kondoleon.
        Mr. Kondoleon's second novel, "Diary of a Lost Boy," published by Alfred A. Knopf in February, chronicled the decline of Hector Diaz, a gay man with AIDS, for whom death became an inescapable obsession. Mr. Kondoleon wrote in the novel, "I know how off-putting it is for the well to be seated next to the unwell, with all the ramifications of pain and death." But in the book's epigraph, he wrote, "Please do not feel sorry for me -- I go to some place thrilling!"
        Margo Jefferson, writing in The New York Times, said of the novel that Mr. Kondoleon "brings irreconcilable characters, moods and situations onto a stage and lets them make their way toward a wary truce." 'Zero Positive'
        Mr. Kondoleon, a playwright whose work often caustically portrayed the spiritual minefields in a society held together by self-indulgence and greed, came to prominence in the 1980's. Among his plays are "Self-Torture and Strenuous Exercise" (1978), "The Brides" (1980), "Christmas on Mars" (1983), "The Fairy Garden" (1984), "Anteroom" (1985), "Zero Positive" (1988), "Love Diatribe" (1990), "Half Off" (1993) and "The Houseguest" (1993).
        In a review of "Zero Positive," Frank Rich, writing in The New York Times, noted that the play "forsakes the clinical to take the spiritual temperature of a society torn between blank despair and positive valor as it struggles to emerge from a viral eclipse."
        In a column last month about "Diary of a Lost Boy," Mr. Rich wrote of a telephone conversation with Mr. Kondoleon in which the playwright said he had found the strength to finish the novel "as a personal achievement to show I wasn't dead."
        Mr. Kondoleon's first novel, "The Whore of Tjampuan," was published by PAJ Publications in 1988. He was also the author of "The Death of Understanding" (1987), a book of poems. A collection of his plays, "Self-Torture and Strenuous Exercise: Selected Plays by Harry Kondoleon," was published by the Theater Communications Group in 1991.
        Mr. Kondoleon, who was born in Forest Hills, N.Y., attended New York City public schools. He graduated from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., in 1977. In 1981, he received a master-of-fine-arts degree from the Yale Drama School, where he studied play writing. Obie Award Winner
        He was the recipient of the 1983 Obie Award for most promising playwright, and he won another Obie last year, for "The Houseguest." He won honors and fellowships from many organizations, including the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts and the New York Foundation for the Arts. In 1977, he received a fellowship from the International Institute of Education to study Balinese theater.
        In addition to his sister, he is survived by his parents, Sophocles and Athena Kondoleon, of New York City.
      