
        Walter Lantz, an animator and producer who created the cartoon characters Woody Woodpecker and Andy Panda, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 93 and lived in Beverly Hills.
        The cause was heart disease, said Kenneth Thimmel, a friend.
        Mr. Lantz made more than 800 short films, about 200 of them featuring the brash red-headed woodpecker with the noisy "ha-ha-ha-HA-ha" laugh. Mr. Lantz's cartoons have been translated into more than 60 languages and seen in more than 70 countries, according to Universal Studios, their distributor. From Hearst to Hollywood
        Mr. Lantz was born in New Rochelle, N.Y., on April 27, 1900, the first of three sons of an immigrant grocer. The family name, Lanza, had been changed to Lantz by an immigration official. At the age of 15, Mr. Lantz was hired as an office boy in the art department of The New York American, William Randolph Hearst's newspaper, where, among his other duties, he washed brushes for Winsor McCay, the legendary Hearst illustrator.
        Mr. Lantz took night classes at the Art Students League, and his ambition and competence were such that at the age of 16 he was hired to work in the new Hearst animation studio, which produced films of comic characters owned by Hearst, including Krazy Kat, the Katzenjammer Kids and Happy Hooligan. Within two years, Mr. Lantz was promoted to full-fledged animator.
        When the Hearst studio closed in 1918, Mr. Lantz worked on "Mutt and Jeff" and other cartoon series at other New York studios. Live Action and Animation
        Mr. Lantz became studio manager of the John R. Bray studios, where he created the successful Dinky Doodle films, which were hybrids of live action and animation. Mr. Lantz appeared in these short films as himself, combining live action with the animated adventures of a little boy, Dinky Doodle, and his dog, Weakheart.
        When the Bray studio closed in 1927, Mr. Lantz moved to Hollywood, where he worked as a gag writer for the Mack Sennett comedy factory, coming up with comedy routines for Ben Turpin and Mabel Normand.
        Mr. Lantz then became a writer for Hal Roach and wrote comedy for the Andy Gump series at Universal. Through this assignment he met Carl Laemmle, Universal's founder and president, who asked Mr. Lantz to set up a cartoon studio on the Universal lot.
        In 1929, Mr. Lantz began producing "Oswald, the Lucky Rabbit" cartoons. Later he used Oswald in Universal's first major musical, "The King of Jazz," in an animated opening sequence by Mr. Lantz. The band leader Paul Whiteman appeared in the film, which included the screen debut of Bing Crosby. It was the first Technicolor sound cartoon, Leonard Maltin wrote in "Of Mice and Magic: A History of American Animated Cartoons." Behind the Creations
        In his years as a cartoon director and producer, Mr. Lantz employed such notable animators as Tex Avery, Grim Natwick, Shamus Culhane, Dick Lundy and Jack Hannah, and the writer Michael Maltese, who collaborated with Mr. Avery on two of Mr. Lantz's cartoons nominated for Academy Awards in the 1950's.
        In 1935, Mr. Lantz worked out an arrangement with Universal that enabled him to act as his own producer. After that, he owned all his cartoons, which were distributed by Universal.
        After the donation of a panda to the Chicago Zoo gained national attention, Mr. Lantz had his studio create Andy Panda in 1939. The title of Andy's first film, "Life Begins for Andy Panda," was a parody of an Andy Hardy feature.
        Woody Woodpecker made his first appearance, and uttered his machine-gun laugh for the first time on the screen, in "Knock Knock," a 1940 Andy Panda cartoon. Woody was animated for Mr. Lantz by Ben (Bugs) Hardaway, who had worked on Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck cartoons at Warner Brothers.
        In 1941, Mr. Lantz married Grace Stafford, a stage actress who later became one of those who supplied Woody Woodpecker's voice.
        In 1948, "The Woody Woodpecker Song" was nominated for an Academy Award as best song. Although it lost to "Buttons and Bows," it became a permanent part of the culture and remained the character's regular theme. The composition began: "Ha-ha-ha-HA-ha. Ha-ha-ha-HA-ha. That's the Woody Woodpecker song." Oscar for Life Achievement
        Mr. Lantz gave up making cartoons in 1976 and became a regular guest at film festivals belatedly recognizing the art of the cartoon. In retirement, he rendered oil paintings of Woody Woodpecker posing as "Blue Boy" and "Mona Lisa."
        In 1979, Mr. Lantz received an Academy Award for life achievement from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for contributions to the art of animation. In 1982, 17 of Mr. Lantz's Woody Woodpecker artifacts, including original drawings, were added to the collection of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
        In March 1986, Mr. Lantz was honored by a star on the Walk of Fame on Hollywood Boulevard in California. In 1990, his 90th birthday was celebrated by the dedication of the first star in the Walk of Fame at Universal Studios in Orlando, Fla.
        Mrs. Lantz died on March 17, 1992.
        No immediate family members survive.
      