
        Donald Swann, a composer, pianist and entertainer who performed as half of the Flanders and Swann team, which brought quirky British wit to Broadway with "At the Drop of a Hat" in 1959, died on Wednesday in Trinity Hospice in London. He was 70.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Lyn Smith, a friend.
        "At the Drop of a Hat" opened in London in 1956 and, with its sequel, "At the Drop of Another Hat" (which came to Broadway in 1966), toured the world for 11 years. The show was a celebration of impish wit, wry observation and a generosity of spirit relieved by the occasional barb. Mr. Swann was the gentleman at the piano wearing glasses and a Cheshire-cat grin; Mr. Flanders was the one with the beard, who, disabled with polio, used a wheelchair. 'Having a Whale of a Time'
        During the show's West End run, one critic described Mr. Swann as "the complete amateur, a tight crescent smile always adorning his small, neat, shining face."
        "His piano approach," the critic continued, "is ludicrous, elbows whirling about, the parlor performer to the life having a whale of a time."
        With tongues firmly in cheek, the performers essayed flights of light verse, including a comic ballad about the London bus. They sang in Greek, Russian and Latin, and tossed off songs celebrating the wart hog, the wompom, the gnu, the armadillo and the hippopotamus. Their hippopotamus song went, in part, "Mud, mud, glorious mud, there's nothing quite like it for cooling the blood."
        On Broadway, where the show ran for 215 performances, "At the Drop of a Hat" had a Piccadilly backdrop created by the artist Al Hirschfeld, and Big Ben struck 9 o'clock as the show started.
        Donald Ibrahim Swann was born in Wales on Sept. 30, 1923. He was educated at Westminster School and Christ Church College, Oxford, where he took part in theatrical revues with Kenneth Tynan. He was a conscientious objector during World War II and did relief work in Britain, Egypt and Palestine. Returning to Oxford, he wrote revues and songs with Mr. Flanders, who was the lyricist. "At the Drop of a Hat" began when the team performed their own compositions for friends at parties.
        The partnership ended in 1967, although the performers remained friends until the death of Mr. Flanders in 1975. Solo Shows
        During the 1970's and 80's Mr. Swann performed solo shows in Britain and around the world. He befriended C. S. Lewis and wrote a lyrical opera, "Perelandra," for him; he also wrote a song cycle, "The Road Goes Ever On," for another friend, the author J. R. R. Tolkien.
        Mr. Swann wrote hundreds of song cycles, cantatas and instrumental compositions; in his last years, he devoted much of his time to recording and publishing his works.
        His first marriage, to Janet Oxborrow, ended in divorce in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Alison Smith; two daughters, Rachel of London and Natasha of Suffolk, England.
      