
        Macdonald Carey, who flourished in the 1940's and 50's as one of Hollywood's handsome leading men and then spent the better part of three decades playing a kindly patriarch, Dr. Tom Horton, on the NBC television soap opera "Days of Our Lives," died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills.  He was 81.
        In September 1991, Mr. Carey had a cancerous tumor removed from his lung. He returned to the television show after a period of recuperation.
        Paulette Cohn, a spokeswoman for the show, said that Mr. Carey would not be replaced and that his character would be written out.
        As a young actor, Mr. Carey was in demand for his fresh-scrubbed masculinity, easy ways and smooth, resonant voice. One of his first films was "Wake Island" (1942), in which he played a valiant young Marine officer in the early months of World War II. That film role led him to try to enlist in the Marines. When he was turned down because of an eye problem, he went to a clinic and learned to do eye exercises that months later, he said, made him an acceptable enlistee. As a Marine radar specialist in the Pacific, he participated in the battles of Bougainville and Mindanao.
        He also appeared in Alfred Hitchcock's "Shadow of a Doubt," released in 1943, in which he played an earnest detective who becomes romantically involved with a killer's niece. 'John's Other Wife'
        Among his other films were "Suddenly It's Spring" (1946), "Dream Girl" (1948), "Streets of Laredo" (1949), "Bride of Vengeance" (1949), "The Great Missouri Raid" (1950) and "Comanche Territory" (1950).
        During his early years he was also active in radio, appearing in soap operas like "John's Other Wife" and on shows like the mystery series "Lights Out."
        Macdonald Carey -- his first name was his mother's maiden name -- was born on March 15, 1913, in Sioux City, Iowa, the son of an affluent investment banker. He was educated at Phillips Exeter Academy and later at the universities of Iowa and Wisconsin. He was at first attracted to the law but then became interested in acting.
        He got his first professional acting job in 1931 when he toured the country with the Globe Players, a group that offered capsule versions of Shakespeare's plays. During the tour Mr. Carey was cast as Hamlet, Macduff and Brutus. He also appeared in Shakespearean vignettes at the 1939-40 World's Fair in New York City.
        After that he went to Chicago to become a radio voice in "John's Other Wife" and was encouraged to take acting seriously. In 1941 he appeared in the Broadway production of "Lady in the Dark," opposite Gertrude Lawrence. On the strength of his performance in New York, Hollywood beckoned and he made his screen debut that same year in "Dr. Broadway." He didn't return to the Broadway stage until 1954, when he appeared in "Anniversary Waltz" opposite Kitty Carlisle.
        He maintained his connection to radio and was quickly attracted to television, where he spent most of the remainder of his career. He appeared on programs like the "Ford Theater," the "Alcoa Hour," the "United States Steel Hour" and the "Zane Grey Theater," which were among the leading dramatic shows on television in the 1950's.
        Although critics generally praised his television acting as they had his movie roles, later generations were unaware of his dramatic skills. Mr. Carey said he had remained with television because that was "where the security as well as the money is now." Even though he had not especially liked soap operas when he did them on radio, he found both security and money with "Days of Our Lives," in which his voice opened each episode with the words, "Like sands through the hourglass, so are the days of our lives."
        The role brought him two Emmy Awards for best actor in a daytime television drama.
        Mr. Carey was married to the former Betty Hecksher, who had also acted in radio soap operas in the 1930's. The marriage ended in divorce in 1969.
        He is survived by three daughters, Lynn, of Brentwood, Calif., Lisa, of Artesia, Calif., and Theresa, of Santa Monica, Calif.; three sons, Steve, of Los Angeles, Paul, of Napa, Calif., and Edward, of Emeryville, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      