
        Ezra Stone, who played the comically trouble-prone teen-ager Henry Aldrich on radio as a young man and then became a successful theater and television director, died on Thursday in an automobile accident near Perth Amboy, N.J. He was 76 and lived at Stone Meadows Farm, near Newtown, Pa.
        For 15 years, first on Broadway and then on radio, Mr. Stone was known to millions as the youth who answered, in a high-pitched, put-upon voice, "Coming, Mother," when summoned by the cry "Hen-REE! Henry Aldrich." He originated the role in 1938 in the Broadway show "What a Life," which ran for more than 600 performances and was later translated into an enormously popular weekly radio program, "The Aldrich Family."
        Mr. Stone was born in New Bedford, Mass., and grew up in Philadelphia, where he broke into show business at the age of 7 doing radio recitations and acting in local productions. Directed Army Shows
        After receiving a diploma from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City in 1935, he appeared in a farce called "Three Men on a Horse," produced by George Abbott, who then cast him in the 1936 hit comedy "Brother Rat." It was while he was an assistant casting director in Mr. Abbott's office, working under Garson Kanin, that he was given the lead role in the Clifford Goldsmith play "What a Life," about a comically troublesome teen-ager. In 1939, after being presented as a sketch on the Rudy Vallee radio show, "The Adrich Family" was programmed as the summer replacement for Jack Benny. After picking up the sponsorship of General Foods, "The Aldrich Family" was off and running as a weekly half-hour program.
        During World War II, Mr. Stone served as a producer, director and actor with the Army's Special Services, staging many productions, most notably the Irving Berlin show "This Is the Army." Although an understudy took over for him for a period, he was able to combine military service with regular appearances on the program, which ran until 1953. From 1950 to 1952, he was director of program development at CBS-TV.
        After retiring as Henry Aldrich, Mr. Stone worked steadily as a producer and director on Broadway and in television. He directed the Broadway plays "See My Lawyer," "Me and Molly," "At War With the Army" and "January Thaw." His television directing credits include episodes of "Julia," "The Flying Nun," "Lassie," "The Munsters," "Lost in Space," "Love American Style" and "The Debbie Reynolds Show."
        In 1979, he became director and president of the David Library of the American Revolution, in Washington Crossing, Pa., which was founded by his father, Solomon Feinstone.
        He is survived by a son, Josef, of Newtown; a daughter, Francine Lida Stone, of Wallingford, England; a sister, Miriam Golub, of Washington Crossing, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      