
        Prof. Kenneth St. Joseph, a British geologist who helped develop the use of aerial photography for the archeological study of the Roman empire and other scientific fields, died on March 11 in Histon, near Cambridge, England. He was 81 and lived in Histon.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Professor St. Joseph was a lecturer in the natural sciences and dean at Cambridge University's Selwyn College from 1939 to 1962, with time out for World War II service as a military intelligence analyst.
        From 1962 to 1980, he was a curator and then director in aerial photography and professor of aerial photographic studies at Cambridge University. At his death, he had been a member of the Council for British Archeology for 50 years.
        "St. Joseph's work provided massive new knowledge of Roman Britain," the British newspaper The Independent said on Friday, and "transformed our knowledge of the early history of Scotland." He was also active in the application of aerial photography to archeology in Germany and elsewhere in continental Europe.
        In Britain, his work helped locate more than 200 Roman forts. It also led him to conclude that a Roman invasion of Scotland during the first century under Gnaeus Julius Agricola -- father-in-law of the historian Tacitus -- had penetrated considerably farther than scholars had thought.
        In addition, Professor St. Joseph pinpointed what he believed was the site of the great victory of Agricola's troops over massed Caledonian tribes in A.D.  84. He said the battle of Mons Graupius took place near what is now the city of Aberdeen, on the North Sea 95 miles northeast of Edinburgh.
        Professor St. Joseph was one of a half-dozen pioneers in the use of aerial photography in archeology. The archeologists Warwick Bray of London University and David Trump of Cambridge University name him as a pioneer in their "Penguin Dictionary of Archeology," which says that "air photographs can give new meaning to already known sites; they can make sense of features visible but incomprehensible from ground level, and they can reveal features too vague to be noticed from ground level at all."
        Aerial photography has also been used successfully in other disciplines, like geology, soil science and geography.
        Professor St. Joseph analyzed aerial photographs as a civilian analyst for the Royal Air Force Bomber Command during World War II and grew interested in their use in science. The Independent reported on Friday that "in R.A.F. Intelligence they discovered him to have an eye like a hawk's and to be a genius at the interpretation of photographs."
        His books include "Roman Britain from the Air" (1983, Cambridge University Press), which he wrote with S. S. Frere. He was a Fellow of the British Academy and a Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
        John Kenneth Sinclair St. Joseph was born in Cookley, in Worcestershire, and went to a school in Bromsgrove. He earned a B.A. in 1934 and a doctorate in Geology in 1937, both from Cambridge University.
        He is survived by his wife, Daphne, two sons and two daughters, and nine grandchildren.
      