
        Theodore M. Black, a book publishing executive and former Chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents, died on Saturday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. Mr. Black, who lived in Port Washington, L.I., was 74.
        He had been ill with liver and kidney problems, said his son, Walter J. Black 2d.
        Mr. Black served on the Board of Regents, the state's highest education policy-making body, starting in 1969, and was its Chancellor from 1975 to 1980. In his five years in the unsalaried post he was credited with strengthening the Chancellor's office by exercising firm control over the 15-member board and over the State Education Department.
        During his tenure he sought to toughen the curriculums of public schools, colleges and universities in the state, and enforce greater discipline within the institutions themselves.
        He was fearful that Federal funds would undermine the independence of state and local schools, and in 1979 he began abstaining from voting on any issue that involved requests for or acceptance of Federal money.
        For many years he was president of Walter J. Black, Inc., a publishing company founded by his father. The company specializes in reprints of popular titles, and issues books in the Classics Club, the Detective Book Club and the Giants of Literature series, among others.
        Mr. Black was born in Brooklyn. He graduated summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University in the class of 1941, of which he was valedictorian.
        He enlisted in the Army in October 1941, and was promoted to the rank of captain, serving in the Third Armored Division in Europe, receiving several decorations. Mr. Black began with his father's company after his discharge from the Army in 1945. He served in the Army reserves for 22 years, retiring as a reserve lieutenant colonel in 1967.
        Mr. Black went into World War II as a Democrat but came out as a Republican. He rose in the party to become a Nassau County Republican Committeeman and a delegate to the 1967 Constitutional Convention.
        He resigned from the Republican party upon his election to the Board of Regents, to distance himself from partisan politics. After leaving the board he returned to the party and again became active politically in Nassau County, most recently as chairman of the party's Chairmen's Club.
        Mr. Black was elected a vice president of Walter J. Black in 1952, became president in 1958 and still held the title of chairman at the time of his death. In 1982 he founded his own consulting company, giving advice to schools, colleges and local governments. He was the author of "Straight Talk About American Education," published in 1982.
        Mr. Black is survived by his wife, Barbara of Port Washington; two sons, T. Michael Black Jr., also of Port Washington, and Walter of Glen Cove, L.I., and 11 grandchildren.
      