
        Melvin N. Gough, a test pilot, engineer and inventor who helped promote aircraft safety and led the investigation into New York City's worst aviation disaster, died on Sunday at his home in Melbourne Beach, Fla. He was 87.
        His family said he died of cancer.
        Mr. Gough directed the Federal inquiry into the collision between a United Airlines DC-8 jetliner and a Trans World Airlines Super-Constellation over Staten Island on Dec. 16, 1960. All 128 passengers and crew members on the two planes were killed, and six other people died when the jetliner crashed into a Brooklyn street.
        Mr. Gough was then the director of the Civil Aeronautics Board's Bureau of Safety, which he led from 1960 to 1962. He also directed investigations into a series of fatal crashes involving Electra prop-jet airliners. 32 Years of Flight Research
        In 1926, Mr. Gough joined the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics -- the forerunner of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration -- testing the flight characteristics of civilian and military aircraft at its research center in Langley, Va.
        In his 32 years at the N.A.C.A., he was a research engineer, test pilot, chief test pilot and chief of the Flight Test Research Division. During those years he also invented several aeronautical instruments, including the visiometer, which enabled pilots to land planes more easily by plotting "blind spots" in their line of vision. He was also widely credited with providing engineering data needed for the development of modern aircraft.
        Mr. Gough began his aviation career at the N.A.C.A. after graduating from Johns Hopkins University. He took a leave of absence to complete Navy flight training in 1930, then returned as a test pilot.
        In 1958 and 1959 Mr. Gough organized NASA's Atlantic Missile Range at Cape Canaveral, Fla., the forerunner of the Kennedy Space Center, where satellites, space shuttles and other research rockets are launched.
        In 1962 he became the first director of the Federal Aviation Agency's development service for civilian aircraft. He retired from Government service in 1964.
        Mr. Gough received the Octave Chanute Award for Test Pilots from the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences in 1941, and the Flight Safety Foundation's Laura Taber Barbour Award in 1960 for his contributions to aviation.
        He is survived by his wife, Catharine, of Melbourne Beach; two sons, Melvin Jr., of Huntington, L.I., and Dr. William, of Norfolk, Va.; two daughters, Janet Levine of Zionsville, Pa., and Nancy Oehler of San Antonio, and a sister, Miriam Wingate of Baltimore.
      