
        Representative William Huston Natcher, a Kentucky Democrat whose political longevity and spotless reputation won him the most powerful committee post in the House, died of heart failure late Tuesday. He was 84.
        Outside of Congress, Mr. Natcher was best known for his streak of 18,401 uninterrupted roll-call votes in the House, a feat that ended on March 3, when failing health forced him to miss a vote (on a minor procedural matter) for the first time since he took office in 1954.
        But on Capitol Hill, Mr. Natcher was an icon, a lawmaker who educated himself on the issues rather than rely on his staff, who took no campaign contributions, who was visibly offended by hints of corruption and who honored legislative procedures and courtesies to their last jot.
        He once said that he wanted his epitaph to read, "He tried to do it right."
        Those qualities, and his seniority, landed Mr. Natcher the chairmanship of the House Appropriations Committee in 1992, but only after Jamie L. Whitten of Mississippi surrendered the job. Obeyed Rules of Courtesy
        The chairman, who effectively controls House action on much of the Federal budget, is one of most powerful figures in Congress. House Democratic leaders had beseeched Mr. Natcher to take the job from Mr. Whitten months earlier, after Mr. Whitten suffered a stroke, but Mr. Natcher refused to overthrow his colleague.
        That sense of fairness also led House colleagues to make him chairman of the body's internal gymnasium committee, where they could be assured that he would allot court time and other amenities without regard to politics or personal favors.
        Mr. Natcher was said to take more pride in his voting record, his daily entries in a diary and the weekly essays on history that he sent to his seven grandchildren than in his eminence in the House.
        In his district, in central and western Kentucky, he generally campaigned by placing a few newspaper advertisements and driving from town to town in his own automobile. And in contrast to many House members, who operate publicity machines of Wurlitzer proportions, Mr. Natcher issued one press release each year, summarizing his voting record. Took No Contributions
        In 1990 he spent $6,768 of his own money to rack up 66 percent of the vote against an opponent who had spent $144,315. One Republican who tried to unseat him in the 1980's likened the race to running against God.
        Mr. Natcher was born in 1909 in Bowling Green, a middle-sized town in Kentucky's rolling limestone cave country. He was awarded a law degree from Ohio State University in 1933. After Navy service in World War II and a string of private and public legal jobs, he won a special election to the House in August 1953.
        Mr. Natcher's record of continuous votes, believed to be the longest in Congressional history, became a burden to him in later life. He regularly urged newly elected members to miss a vote early in their careers to avoid his fate.
        As his wife Virginia lay dying in Kentucky in 1991, Mr. Natcher shuttled almost continuously between her bedside and the House floor to avoid missing votes. House Suspends Work
        He was visibly weak in January, when the House returned to business after its winter recess. After he entered Bethesda Naval Hospital, the House suspended voting business on March 1 for one day to allow him to keep his voting stream intact, something the House had never done before for a member.
        On March 2, Mr. Natcher left his hospital bed and had Navy aides wheel him onto the House floor on a gurney. There, studded with intravenous tubes but clad in a dark suit, he cast several votes on routine issues.
        The next day he was unable to leave his bed, and both his streak and his tenure on the Appropriations panel effectively ended. But while House Democrats voted to place Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin in command of the panel, they allowed Mr. Natcher to keep the title of chairman until his death.
        Besides his grandchildren, Mr. Natcher is survived by two daughters, Celeste Jirles of Cambridge, Ohio, and Louise Murphy of Berkeley, Calif., and two great-grandchildren.
      