
        Albert Goldman, the author of no-holds-barred biographies of Lenny Bruce, Elvis Presley and John Lennon, died on Monday while traveling from Miami to London, where he was to take part in a television program on biography. He was 66 and lived in New York City.
        The cause was heart failure, said Deborah Karl, his literary agent and executor.
        Mr. Goldman's "Elvis" (1981), an epic-length work written in a supercharged, impressionistic prose style, provoked howls of outrage from fans of the rock legend, who saw their idol portrayed as a self-indulgent, barely talented rube with perverse sexual inclinations and enormous (and enormously vulgar) appetites, including a gargantuan drug habit.  Compelling Though Negative
        The rock critic Greil Marcus went so far as to call the book "cultural genocide." Other critics, while questioning Mr. Goldman's relentlessly negative approach and his reliance on unnamed or biased sources, described the book as a compelling piece of cultural journalism. In particular, the book was praised for its vivid picture of Presley's notoriously secretive manager, Col. Tom Parker.
        Mr. Goldman was born in Dormont, Pa., and grew up in Mount Lebanon, Pa. He attended the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, where he studied acting and stage design. His studies were interrupted by service in the Navy in 1945 and 1946. Although he did not earn a bachelor's degree, he entered the master's program at the University of Chicago and received a master's degree in 1950.  Hints of a Style
        In 1961, he received a doctorate in English at Columbia University. His dissertation, "The Mine and the Mint: Sources for the Writings of Thomas De Quincey," gave a hint of his later approach to biography. It set out to prove that De Quincy, far from being fearsomely erudite, more often than not mined the material of other writers, polished it up and passed it off as his own.
        While doing graduate work at Columbia, Mr. Goldman taught courses in the colleges of the City University of New York. From 1963 to 1972, he was an adjunct associate professor of English at Columbia. He edited, with Everet Sprinchorn, "Wagner on Music and Drama," and his dissertation was published by Southern Illinois University Press in 1965.
        Mr. Goldman, who once described himself as "one-half New York intellectual, one-half Brooklyn-Broadway wise guy," found his interests shifting from 19th-century English literature to contemporary jazz and rock music. At Columbia, he began teaching a course on popular culture. In 1966 and 1967, he was the host and writer for the Channel 13 series "The Wednesday Review," a survey of cultural events. He also contributed articles on music and popular culture to many magazines, and from 1970 to 1973 he was the pop-music columnist for Life magazine.  On Lenny Bruce
        In 1971, his pop-culture writings were collected in "Freakshow: The Rocksoulbluesjazzsickjewblackhumorsexpoppsych Gig and Other Scenes From the Counter-Culture" (1971), which included an extended essay on Lenny Bruce, the subject of Mr. Goldman's first biography.
        "Ladies and Gentlemen, Lenny Bruce!!," which was published in 1974, won critical praise for its insightful portrayal of a complex, tormented man. In The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote: "He has given us Lenny Bruce in all his many guises: showman, jazzman, hipster and whore; scam artist, liar, fink and junkie; schlemiel, meshugana, tummler and naar; genius, rebel, artist and hero."
        The critical and commercial success of the Bruce biography led to a $1 million advance from McGraw-Hill for a biography of Elvis Presley, who died in 1977. Finding Something Positive
        Mr. Goldman said he conducted 600 interviews in the course of researching "Elvis." He denied that he set out to paint an unflattering portrait. "It's absurd to believe that I wanted to trash Elvis," he said in an interview. "One of the greatest problems was trying to find something positive to say about this man. Every time I started investigating a given area, even one that promised to make him look good, it always ended up making him look bad."
        His next biography, on John Lennon, would be different, he said.  "John Lennon was my idol in the rock world," he told the same interviewer. "He was someone of great intelligence and courage, the opposite of Elvis." A 'Puffed Up' John Lennon
        But 1,200 interviews and 6 years later, a very different Lennon emerged in "The Lives of John Lennon" (1988). In addition to suggesting that Lennon might have committed a murder in his youth, the book portrayed him as a "a once brilliant, rebellious, virile young rocker whom success had puffed up into a fat clown." The book received mostly negative reviews.
        Mr. Goldman's other books were "Carnival at Rio" (1978), "Grass Roots: Marijuana in America Today" (1979), "Disco" (1979) and "Sound Bites" (1992), a selection of his writings on popular music. At the time of his death, he was working on a biography of Jim Morrison for Ballantine Books.
        No immediate family members survive.
      