
        Msgr. Alvaro del Portillo, the head of Opus Dei, the conservative Roman Catholic movement, died in Rome today. He was 80.
        A spokesman for the organization said the cause was a heart attack. News reports said Monsignor del Portillo, who was ordained a bishop by Pope John Paul II in 1991, had returned today from a weeklong trip to the Holy Land.
        Monsignor del Portillo had headed the movement since its founder, Msgr. Jose Maria Escriva de Balaguer, died in 1975.
        A mainly lay organization established in 1928, Opus Dei claims 77,000 members worldwide, 1,500 of them priests. Many liberal Catholics have accused Opus Dei of secrecy, elitism and of wielding disproportionate influence at the Vatican.  Condolences From the Pope
        In a telegram of condolences sent to the organization's Rome headquarters, the Pope said of Monsignor del Portillo, "I remember the zeal with which he led his life as a clergyman and the example of strength and faith in Divine Providence that he offered all the time."
        Born in Madrid, Monsignor del Portillo joined Opus Dei, Latin for "Work of God," in 1935. He was ordained a priest in 1944 and served as secretary of the committee on the clergy at the Second Vatican Council in the 1960's.
        From his first days within Opus Dei, Monsignor del Portillo was a close confidant of its Spanish founder and pressed the campaign to have him beatified. The campaign bore fruit in 1992, when John Paul beatified Monsignor Escriva at a ceremony that drew 200,000 people to St. Peter's Square.
        Many liberal Catholics took the speedy decision on the beatification, which at 17 years was one of the fastest in Catholic history, as a sign of Opus Dei's influence in the Vatican, and the beatification intensified the divisions within the church over the organization's role.
        Opus Dei's stated goal is to promote traditional Catholic values through exemplary conduct and counts among its members many influential Catholics in government and industry. Group Given Special Status
        Since he assumed the papacy in 1978, John Paul has given strong support to the movement and its leader. In 1982 he granted Opus Dei the unusual status of a "Personal Prelature" within the church hierarchy, enabling it to appoint its own priests and run its own affairs without diocesan supervision.
        Monsignor del Portillo always dismissed suggestions that the movement was in any way sinister or excessively secretive.
        "Opus Dei hides nothing and has nothing to hide," he said in a 1992 interview.
        In the same interview, Monsignor del Portillo pointed out that Opus Dei rules did not permit him to retire, and he would therefore step down "only when they say, "Requiescat in pace.' "
        An Opus Dei spokesman said a successor to Monsignor del Portillo would be chosen over the next few months by a special congress that would submit its choice to the Pope.
      