
        Gundaris Pone, a composer, conductor and music professor at the State University College at New Paltz, N.Y., died on Tuesday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 61 and lived in New Paltz.
        The cause was cancer, said Karen Summerlin, a spokeswoman for the college.
        Mr. Pone was a prolific and eclectic composer who was concerned with finding a middle ground between avant-garde techniques and neo-Romantic expressivity. There were also often touches of irony in his work.
        An example is his 1975 orchestral work "Avanti." The title means forward in Italian, but the work actually moves backward through musical styles. Described by the composer as his "statement of esthetic position," it moves from a modernist cacophony, in which the orchestra is divided into groups playing in different time signatures, through a 19th-century waltz on its way to a final quotation from a Bach chorale. The piece won first prize at the Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards in 1982.
        Mr. Pone was born in Riga, Latvia, on Oct. 17, 1932. He moved to the United States with his family in 1950 and completed a doctorate in music at the University of Minnesota in 1962. The following year he joined the faculty at New Paltz. He became a champion of American music and for several years directed the Pone Ensemble for New Music and the Music in the Mountains Festival, a summer series in New Paltz that focused on contemporary works.
        He also maintained his ties with Latvia and Russia. His most recent works include "Il Mio Paradiso," a ballet that the Latvian National Opera is scheduled to perform this year, and a string quartet, "Old Friends," also written for a Latvian ensemble, the Riga String Quartet. His Violin Concerto (1983) had its world premiere at the Riga Music Festival.
        Besides the Kennedy Center Friedheim Award, his music won prizes at the Georges Enescu Competition, the Citta di Trieste International Competition, the International Double Bass Composition Competition and the Louisville Orchestra International Competition.
        He is survived by his wife, Mariolina, and two sons, Adrian, of North Carolina, and Daniel, of New Paltz.
      