
        Laurence C. Craigie, a retired Lieutenant General in the Air Force who was the first military jet pilot for the United States, died on Sunday in the hospital at March Air Force Base in California, the Air Force reported. He was 92 years old.
        General Craigie's career in military aviation began when the Army had a fleet of propeller-driven biplanes and there was no separate Air Force; it ended in the age of supersonic jets.
        For much of his career, he headed the military's development of new aircraft, and on Oct. 2, 1942, he flew the Bell XP-59, the first American jet, from a dry lake in Southern California. He was the second person to pilot the craft; a civilian pilot had flown it first.
        Born on Jan. 26, 1902, in Concord, N.H., General Craigie graduated from West Point in 1923 and went directly into the Army Air Corps, serving as a pilot and flight instructor.
        He joined the Air Corps' Experimental Engineering Section in 1939 and became chief of the Aircraft Projects Branch from 1941 to 1943. In the last two years of World War II, he led fighter wings in New York City, North Africa and Corsica.
        After World War II, he directed the Air Force's research and development programs and became one of the service's most visible proponents of greater financing and experimentation. In 1948 he said, "We have a yacht, and like the man who asked J. P. Morgan how much it cost to run a yacht, we cannot keep a yacht if we have to worry about the cost." Participated in Peace Talks
        He was Vice Commander of the Far East Air Forces in the first year of the Korean War, and a member of the Allied negotiating team in peace talks to end that war.
        In 1951, he became the Air Force deputy chief of staff for development. In 1954, he became commander of the Allied Air Force in Southern Europe, a post he held until retiring the next year for health reasons.
        On leaving the military, General Craigie settled in Southern California and worked in private industry.
        The Associated Press said he is survived by his wife, Victoria Craigie; a son, Jack, and a daughter, Gale Craigie Chidlaw.
      