
        Domenick L. Gabrielli, a prominent upstate jurist who served for a decade as an associate judge of the New York Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, died last Friday at Villa Mary Immaculate Nursing Home in Albany. He was 81 and lived in Albany.
        Judge Gabrielli, who was stricken with pneumonia and admitted to St. Peter's Hospital in Albany a month ago, entered the nursing home last Tuesday to convalesce and died of complications arising from the pneumonia, his daughter, Veronica Dumas, said.
        In a career that spanned more than 50 years, Mr. Gabrielli, a native of Rochester, was a practicing lawyer, corporation counsel, district attorney and judge who rose from county and children's courts to the State Supreme Court, the Appellate Division and then the Court of Appeals.
        A Republican-Conservative, Judge Gabrielli was elected to the Court of Appeals in 1972. Two years later, he was cited by state Republican officials as a possible candidate for lieutenant governor to run with Gov. Malcolm Wilson. In 1978, his was one of seven names submitted to Gov. Hugh L. Carey as candidates for Chief Judge of New York State. Scores of Major Rulings
        During his tenure on the high court, Judge Gabrielli participated in scores of major rulings, upholding the constitutionality of state obscenity laws and the New York City landmarks preservation law as well as the creation of a state agency to guide New York City through its fiscal crisis in the mid-1970's. He was a conservative in criminal procedure cases.
        In a 1976 decision written by Judge Gabrielli, the court became one of only a few state courts in the nation to uphold the principle of "reverse" or "benign" discrimination -- giving special treatment in jobs and education to minorities -- under certain circumstances. The United States Supreme Court had by then not ruled on the controversial issue.
        The judge's dissenting voice was also prominent in many decisions. He voted against the majority in 1976, for example, when it disqualified former Senator Eugene J. McCarthy as an independent Presidential candidate in the state. Judge Gabrielli retired from the bench in 1982 and practiced law in Rochester and Albany until 1992. 'A Lasting Imprint'
        A trim, baldish man who wore glasses and a wry smile, the judge was known among lawyers, judicial colleagues and court personnel for personal warmth.
        "I think of him above all else as a friend and a human being, a kind, gentle, loving human being," said the state's Chief Judge, Judith S. Kaye. "He was a towering judge, a great judge, who will have a lasting imprint on the lives of the people of this state and on the law in this state."
        Associate Judge Joseph W. Bellacosa said of Judge Gabrielli: "He had a sense of his humble origin and that translated into enormous respect for everyone in every station in life."
        Domenick Luciana Gabrielli, the son of Italian immigrants, was born in Rochester on Dec. 13, 1912, and even as a boy worked in a courthouse, shining shoes. He graduated from St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., and the Albany Law School and was admitted to the New York bar in 1937.
        He began as a lawyer and corporation counsel in Bath, N.Y., and other Steuben County communities. In World War II, he was a Navy lieutenant stationed in the Pacific. In 1953, he was appointed Steuben County District Attorney by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey. 25 Years on Bench
        In 1957, beginning his 25 years on the bench, he was elected Steuben County Court judge and served as a Children's Court judge as well. In 1961, he became a State Supreme Court justice in a district encompassing Steuben and seven other counties.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller named him an associate justice of the Appellate Division in the Albany region in 1967 and an associate justice of the Appellate Division in western New York in 1969. He won a seat on the Court of Appeals three years later at a time when associate judges were elected statewide.
        After leaving the bench, he joined the Rochester law firm of Nixon, Hargrave, Devans & Doyle as senior counsel and was in its Albany office from 1987 to 1992. In 1983, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo named him as chairman of a state screening committee that recommended candidates for judicial posts.
        The judge, a trustee of the Albany Law School and a former trustee of Alfred University, received many honorary degrees and awards, including the 1983 Gold Medal of the New York State Bar Association.
        Besides his daughter, Ms. Dumas, who is an assistant district attorney in Albany, Judge Gabrielli is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Hedges; a son, Michael E., of Hammondsport, N.Y.; four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      