
        Dr. Samuel Wesley Perry 3d, a Manhattan psychoanalyst noted for his studies of the mental aspects of illness and injury, including burns and AIDS, died on Tuesday at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 53 years old.
        The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Anna.
        Dr. Perry, the scion of generations of physicians, was professor of psychiatry and associate chairman of research at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where he had been conducting his work since 1977. He was also in private psychoanalytic practice throughout his career.
        He was a native of New Castle, Pa., graduated from Princeton University, received his medical training at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and trained at the American Psychoanalytic Association. Except for two years in the Air Force treating some of the first returning American prisoners of the Vietnam War, he did all his research first at Columbia and then at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Studies on Burn Injuries
        His early studies centered on severe burn injuries and post-traumatic syndrome affecting not only the victims but the attending staff as well. As he tested methods of pain relief during debridement -- cutting away dead tissue -- he broached the issue of undermedication by reluctant clinicians.
        In his work on AIDS, Dr. Perry found a need to document the psychological course of prolonged infection and made a record of adults tested positive for H.I.V., the virus that causes the illness. This led him to conclude that most H.I.V.-infected patients were able to cope reasonably well over time if given proper counseling. His commitment to such AIDS counseling earned him the National AIDS Education Award from the Public Health Service.
        He was the author or co-author of nine books and more than 200 scientific articles and book chapters. He was recently elected to the editorial board of The Archives of Psychiatry. This year he also received the Distinguished Research Award from Columbia's Psychoanalytic Center, where he was a training and supervising analyst.
        Besides his wife of 28 years, Anna Smiley Perry, he is survived by two daughters, Maren and Kimberly; a son, Daniel; his mother, Elizabeth Brumbaugh Perry of New Castle; two sisters, Ann Mayberry of Pittsburgh and Susan Farmer of Del Mar, Calif., and a brother, James B., of Linwood, N.J.
      