
        William W. Golub, a Manhattan lawyer who played a leading role in the renovation of public transportation in the New York metropolitan area in the 1950's, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        During a long legal career, Mr. Golub was an authority on regulatory and legislative issues and later on corporate financing. He was a vital figure in the reorganization of the Long Island Rail Road and the Hudson & Manhattan Railroad connecting Manhattan with New Jersey. He also served as a special consultant to a commuter rail and bus line plan that was submitted to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1959.
        He then became a special assistant in the Rockefeller administration for rail commuter problems. Consultant to Commission
        Five years later, he was named special consultant to the Moreland Act Commission to draft legislation embodying sweeping changes in New York State's liquor laws.
        In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mr. Golub a member of the governing council of the Administrative Conference of the United States, which was created by Congress to streamline governmental agencies and procedures.
        Mr. Golub joined the New York law firm of Rosenman & Colin in 1969 as a partner and went on to specialize in securities and corporate mergers, refinancing and reorganizations. He was named counsel to the firm in 1987. Headed Alumni Association
        Mr. Golub graduated from Columbia College and in 1937 from Columbia Law School. He served as staff lawyer for the United States Attorney General's Commission on Administrative Procedure until 1939. During World War II, he was a consultant to wartime Federal agencies, including the Office of Price Administration.
        In 1976, Mr. Golub was elected president of Columbia College's Alumni Association. He served as a Columbia University trustee in 1981-1982 and received the university's John Jay Award in 1988.
        His wife, Barbara, died in 1990.
        He is survived by his daughter, Joan L., of Manhattan; a sister, Rose Wright, and a grandson.
      