
        Giulietta Masina, the waiflike actress who became one of Italy's best-known movie stars, died today in a Rome hospital less than five months after the death of her husband, the director Federico Fellini. She was 73.
        The cause was cancer, said Prof. Paolo Pola, who had treated Miss Masina in the Columbus Clinic in Rome.
        Miss Masina had been in poor health for months, but she seemed to deteriorate after her husband died in October. When she appeared at his funeral, looking frail in one of her last public appearances, she blew kisses and waved toward his casket as it was carried from the church.
        At the service, Achille Cardinal Silvestrini called her "dear, strong, gentle Gelsomina," using the name of the guileless waif she played in Mr. Fellini's 1954 classic "La Strada," a role that pushed her to renown. An Innocent Outcast
        Miss Masina began her career as a university student in Rome. She met Mr. Fellini, then a young scriptwriter, while working as a radio actress in wartime Italy.
        After hearing her read a part in a radio script he had written, Mr. Fellini called her for a lunch date. They married one year later, in 1943. Her husband died the day after their 50th wedding anniversary.
        Mr. Fellini's nickname for his wife was Lo Spippolo, argot meaning any small thing that inspires tenderness.
        Miss Masina broke into the movies in 1948 working with the director Alberto Lattuada and later with Roberto Rossellini and Luigi Comencini.
        Only in the 1950's, however, did she become internationally known, playing roles in her husband's films and excelling in the portrayal of innocent, pathetic and troubled outcasts living in a world of their own.
        In the Oscar-winning "La Strada," Miss Masina played Gelsomina as a young woman whose simple mind could never be dominated by her destiny: bought for a plate of pasta by Zampano, a circus strongman played by Anthony Quinn.
        Three years later, she won the best-actress award at the Cannes International Film Festival for her performance as a naive prostitute in Mr. Fellini's second Academy Award-winning film, "Nights of Cabiria." She also won critical acclaim playing the betrayed Juliet in his 1965 "Juliet of the Spirits." 20 Years Off, Then a Comeback
        For nearly 20 years, she remained out of the international spotlight, although she starred in Italian television productions and was the host of a radio show, "Open Letters to Giuletta Masina," which ran from 1966 to 1969.
        Miss Masina returned to the cinema in 1985 alongside Marcello Mastroianni in another Fellini film, "Ginger and Fred." The movie received mixed reviews.
        Miss Masina was born in the town of San Giorgio di Piano, near Bologna, the daughter of a schoolteacher. Her earliest ambition was to become a musician. Her parents insisted, however, that she study classics in Rome. But once in the city, she began a career as a singer, dancer, violinist and actress.
        Thoughout the couple's marriage, people close to them said she acted as Mr. Fellini's muse and adviser, often interposing herself between him and the press at his request to protect his privacy.
        "When he was working on an idea, I never asked him anything because he was very jealous about his work in the creative phase," she said in an interview. "Afterward, however, he always came to look for me to show me his ideas, his scripts, his drawings, and asked me what I thought."
        In 1993, when Mr. Fellini received a fifth Oscar for his life's work from Sophia Loren and Mr. Mastroianni in Hollywood, he dedicated it to his wife, who was in the audience. "Please, Giulietta," he said above the applause, "don't cry."
      