
        O. Scott Petty, a geophysicist and inventor since the early years of oil exploration, died last Wednesday at his home in San Antonio. He was 98.
        He died of pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Petty, who had remained active until two days before his death, looking after his interests in ranching and the oil industry, held many patents in geophysical instruments and equipment. In 1925 he developed what he called his "little jigger," an electrostatic seismograph detector about the size of a suitcase that was used to find deposits of petroleum by picking up vibrations in the earth. Years later the device was made smaller for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which used it as an instrument in space exploration. Taught Advanced Physics
        In 1925 Mr. Petty also founded the Petty Geophysical Engineering Company, one of the first seismic service companies in the oil industry. It later merged into Geosource Inc., which eventually became part of Halliburton Geophysical Services Inc. of Houston, a joint venture with Scientific Software-Intercomp Inc. of Denver.
        Olive Scott Petty was born in Olive, Texas, a town named after a maternal uncle, Col. S. C. Olive. He received a degree in civil engineering from the University of Texas in 1917, then served in France as an Army lieutenant in the engineers in World War I. After the war he returned to the University of Texas to teach and study advanced physics until 1923.
        Mr. Petty was the author of "Seismic Reflections: Recollections of the Formative Years of the Geophysical Exploration Industry" (1976), summing up his professional experiences. He edited "Journey to Pleasant Hill: The Civil War Letters of Capt. E. P. Petty, C.S.A." (1982), a collection of letters his grandfather wrote to his grandmother in Texas and Louisiana.
        Among Mr. Petty's achievements were successful explorations of commercial oil fields in England and India in the 1930's. In World War II he had seismic crews working in Cuba, Egypt, England, India, Mexico and Sumatra.
        He was a life member of the Explorers Club and a founding and honorary life member of the Society of Exploration Geophysicists.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Edwina Harris Petty; a son, Scott Jr., of San Antonio, three grandchildren and two great-grandchilden.
      