
        Michael Dewell, a producer, writer and translator who mounted theatrical classics on tour and on Broadway, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Mary Bryant, a friend.
        Mr. Dewell was a co-founder of the National Repertory Theater, which received a Tony Award in 1965 for its work in producing classical theater. Among his Broadway productions were "The Crucible" (1964), "The Seagull" (1964), "Tonight at 8:30" (1967), "A Touch of the Poet" (1967) and "The Imaginary Invalid" (1967).
        The repertory company, founded in 1960 by Mr. Dewell and Frances Ann Dougherty, took classical theater to more than 200 cities in the United States and Canada. It counted among its stars Eva Le Gallienne, Faye Emerson, Farley Granger and Denholm Elliott. Among its best-known touring plays were "Mary Stuart," "Ring Around the Moon," "Elizabeth the Queen," "The Trojan Women" and "The Madwoman of Chaillot." Reopened Ford's Theater
        In 1968, under the direction of Stewart Udall, the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Dewell reopened Ford's Theater in Washington as a working playhouse. He also produced a CBS television special on the reopening.
        In 1973, he founded the Los Angeles Free Shakespeare Festival. More recently, he was a project director for the Humanities and Arts Computer Consortium, which provides nonprofit institutions with automated mailings and fund-raising materials.
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Dewell began translating and publishing Federico Garcia Lorca's plays "Yerma," "The House of Bernarda Alba" and "Blood Wedding" in collaboration with the writer Carmen Zapata.
        Mr. Dewell was born in West Haven, Conn. He received a bachelor's degree from Yale University and a master's degree from the University of London, and he from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London.
        He married the actress Nina Foch in 1966. The marriage ended in divorce in 1993.
        He is survived by a sister, Patricia Dewell Wallace of Woodbridge, Conn.
      