
        Gerald S. Elliott, a lawyer and prominent collector of contemporary art, died on Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 62.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, said Mel Fingerut, a close friend.
        Known throughout the art world as a discerning and passionate collector of contemporary American and European art, Mr. Elliott loved arguing the fine points of an artist's achievement as much as he did pursuing an artwork for purchase. He traveled incessantly to see exhibitions and meet artists and dealers. Under a Pseudonym
        He was born in Chicago in 1931, and received both his undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Illinois. Although he worked most of his life as a lawyer, art was clearly his first calling, one that sent him back to graduate school in art history and that occasionally prompted him to write art criticism, which he published under a pseudonym, Sydney Brearly.
        Although he began as a collector of Abstract Expressionist painting in the early 1970's, Mr. Elliott was increasingly drawn to the art of younger European and American Neo-Expressionists whose work was just beginning to be noticed. Starting in 1978, he devoted himself to building an unusually comprehensive collection of art of the 1970's and 80's.
        The collection, exhibited at the Art Institute of Chicago in 1990, was admired for both its scope and its concentrations of works by such artists as Donald Judd, Robert Ryman, Bruce Nauman and Francesco Clemente. Donations of Photographs
        In 1992, Mr. Elliott gave a group of Conceptual photographs, including works by Vito Acconci, Richard Prince and Cindy Sherman, to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, whose board of trustees he joined in 1979. He gave nine works to the Art Institute of Chicago, including a group of five paintings by Mr. Ryman.
        He recently gave several works to the Museum of Modern Art, where he was a member of the acquisitions committee of the department of painting and sculpture.
        Mr. Elliott is survived by his aunt, Mary Slutzky of Chicago.
      