
        Fernando Rey, the Spanish movie actor known for his roles as the French drug lord in "The French Connection" and as the corrupt ambassador in Luis Bunuel's "Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie," died yesterday in Madrid. He was 76.
        The Associated Press reported that his son, Fernando, gave the cause of death as bladder cancer.
        Although Mr. Rey appeared in more than 150 films, he is best remembered by American audiences for his role as Charnier, the smooth villain who eludes a narcotics detective (Gene Hackman) in William Friedkin's "French Connection" (1971). Europeans and art-film devotees knew him for his effortless portrayals of cosmopolitan, weary men of the world.
        Mr. Rey was born in La Coruna, in northwestern Spain. His name was Fernando Casado Arambillet. Rey was his mother's surname. His family was wealthy, but his privileged situation came to an end when his father, a colonel in the army, remained loyal to the Republic in the face of Gen. Francisco Franco's insurrection. His father was sentenced to death when the Spanish Civil War ended; the sentence was later suspended. Successful Casting Call
        Mr. Rey, who had entered architecture school just before the war broke out, also fought for the Republic during the civil war. In 1940, while he was pawning the family belongings to survive, he answered a casting call for film extras and ended up playing an Englishman in "The Four Robinsons." The film led to steady work as an extra, and then as an actor in dubbing studios. He became familiar to Spanish moviegoers as the voice of Laurence Olivier.
        Mr. Rey achieved a national reputation in the theater and soon became a fixture in Spanish period films, notably "Locura de Amor" ("The Mad Queen"), an enormous success in Spain and Latin America.
        In the 1950's, he made several films with Luis Berlanga and J. A. Bardem, the bright lights of the Spanish cinema at the time.
        A turning point in his career came when Bunuel cast him as the doltish Don Jaime in "Viridiana" (1961), a role that led to an appearance in Orson Welles's "Chimes at Midnight" and to three subsequent collaborations with Bunuel, in "Tristana" (1970), "The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie" (1972) and "That Obscure Object of Desire" (1977).
        In 1975, Mr. Rey returned as Charnier in "The French Connection II." His other film credits include Lina Wertmuller's "Seven Beauties" (1975), Robert Altman's "Quintet" (1979) and Carlos Saura's "Elisa, Vida Mia" (1977), for which he was named best actor at the Cannes Film Festival.
        His most recent American film was "Moon Over Parador," in 1988.
        Mr. Rey recently completed work on his last film, "Al Otro Lado del Tunel" ("The Other Side of the Tunnel"), directed by Jaime de Arminan.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Mabel Karr, an actress, and a daughter, Mabel.
      