
        Dr. Jean Gottmann, the French geographer who scrutinized the Northeastern Corridor of the United States and defined it as a new social, economic and political entity he called Megalopolis, died on Monday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer said his wife, Bernice.
        During the 1950's, Dr. Gottmann conducted a landmark four-year study of the Northeast under the auspices of the Twentieth Century Fund. His report became a model for examinations of smaller but similar regions.
        His first view of the area's future was optimistic.
        In the study, published in 1961 as "Megalopolis: The Urbanized Northeastern Seaboard of the United States," Dr. Gottmann concluded that the area "was the cradle of a new order in the organization of inhabited space." It was almost 600 miles long and at the time had 30 million inhabitants.
        At the time, he said, Megalopolis stretched from just north of Boston to just south of Washington, had gained many characteristics of a single city and had become pre-eminent in the policies, arts, communications and economy of the United States.
        In spite of fears for the future of Megalopolis expressed by city planners, Dr. Gottmann said the area's future was bright in part because it had an "extremely distinguished population" that was "the richest, best-educated, best-housed and best-serviced group of similar size in the world."
        Dr. Gottmann used the term Megalopolis in defining the region, a word he credited to ancient Greeks who coined it for a newly founded city intended to be their largest. The city never fulfilled those aspirations, but Dr. Gottmann retrieved the long lost name for modern usage.
        Dr. Gottmann's four-year examination was the fruit of 20 years of thought and study of human and economic geography, which led to his initial, generally optimistic, view of the region. Optimism Wanes
        But in a retrospective in 1975, Dr. Gottmann was to take a more cautious view. He said that many large and growing American and foreign cities were faced with challenges that had not been foreseen. Among them were the unexpected demand for social services in the midst of shrinking employment prospects and increasing human stress.
        "Local government powers and planning theory in general are not adapted to deal with the entanglements of the new situation," he wrote. "The city becomes a mosaic of diverse but poorly adjusted pieces, offering more contrasts than harmony. The present mutation of American cities reflects the dynamics of a society in search of new structures and a new ethic."
        Dr. Gottmann began his academic career at the University of Paris, where he received a doctorate in geography. During World War II he taught at Johns Hopkins University, returning to France after the war to teach at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes, an affiliate of the Sorbonne.
        In the 1950's he was also a member of the Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton.
        Among his other books were "A Geography of Europe" (1951) and "Virginia at Mid-Century" (1955), the latter written under the auspices of the Mellon Foundation.
        After leaving the University of Paris he became a professor of geography and the head of the department of geography at the University of Oxford. He retired in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife.
      