
        Stephen W. Dunwell, an engineer who guided the development of the I.B.M. supercomputer of the 1960's and designed the AUL computer language in the 1980's, died on Monday at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        He joined International Business Machines in 1934 and retired in 1976. The company named him an I.B.M. fellow in 1966, to pursue any research he wished. From then until his retirement, he produced COURSEWRITER, the first time-sharing software marketed by I.B.M., and laid the foundation for current networks that provide for the exchange of engineering information and sales data.
        Mr. Dunwell was born in Kalamazoo, Mich. He designed and operated an amateur radio station when he was in high school. He studied electrical engineering at Antioch College, then entered the I.B.M. student program for graduate engineers. Decorated in War
        He was designing products for I.B.M. when World War II started. He entered the Army Security Agency, where he worked on cryptography and breaking enemy codes with I.B.M. machinery. He was decorated with the Legion of Merit and promoted to lieutenant colonel.
        After the war he returned to I.B.M. and in 1958, he became director of Project STRETCH, a program designed to broaden transistor technology for commercial and scientific applications. Much of that work went into the I.B.M. 360 mainframe computer.
        After retiring from I.B.M., Mr. Dunwell and his wife, Julia McClure Dunwell, led the effort to rescue an 1869 opera house in Poughkeepsie. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.  Renamed the Bardavon Opera House, it became a community-run, nonprofit home for theater, dance and music.
        In 1980 Mr. Dunwell and his wife formed a computer time-sharing laboratory that developed a universal language for computers, which he regarded as "a road map to the future for the computer industry."
        Besides his wife, Mr. Dunwell is survived by two sons, Roger, of Petionville, Haiti, and Stephen W. Jr., of Boston; a daughter, Frances F. Dunwell of New Paltz, N.Y., and three granddaughters.
      