
        Sir Vincent Brian Wigglesworth, a British biologist who did pioneering studies of the physiology of insects, died on Feb. 12 in Cambridge, England. He was 94 years old and lived in Cambridge and in Lavenham in Suffolk County in southeastern England.
        Sir Vincent, who was knighted in 1964, was Reader in Entomology at Cambridge University from 1945 to 1952; Quick Professor of Biology there from 1952 to 1966, when he retired from that chair; and a longtime Fellow of Cambridge's Gonville and Caius College.
        He was particularly noted for his fruitful researches, beginning years before World War II, into insect hormones and the role they play in reproduction, growth and physical transformations, such as from the larva stage to the pupa stage. Authority on Insect Hormones
        The Times of London recently called him "the acknowledged world authority" on insect hormones. His 1970 book, "Insect Hormones" has been lauded as definitive, and a second edition, edited by J. J. Head, is in print in the United States from Carolina Biological. In addition, as another British newspaper, The Daily Telegraph, put it on Saturday, his findings concerning insect hormones "pointed the way toward similar phenomena in other species."
        Sir Vincent studied at Cambridge and originally planned to be a doctor, but he grew interested in insects through investigations he did at Cambridge into cockroach physiology.
        He went on to become Lecturer in Medical Entomology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine from 1926 to 1945. In 1926, he began studying the main physiological systems of insects considered significant to the study of medicine.
        His first book, "Insect Physiology" (1934) has been called a classic. His next work, "The Principles of Insect Physiology" came out in 1939 and has also been highly praised. Its seventh edition is in print in the United States from Chapman & Hall.
        Sir Vincent's researches yielded numerous concrete insights. The British newspaper The Guardian wrote, in reviewing his career: "He unraveled many of the everyday mysteries of insects; how their feet stick to surfaces; how their eggs breathe; how their brains and nervous systems function."
        He drew widespread attention in 1960, when he discussed, in a London lecture and a report in the magazine The New Scientist, how the gnatlike midge manages to flap its wings more than 1,000 times a second.
        He said that the immense number of flapping cycles per second "follow one another far too rapidly to be brought about by an individual nerve stimulus for each contraction."
        What happens instead, he said, is that a midge's nerves merely turn the flapping on and off; and the pace of the flapping is controlled by the muscles and the elasticity in the insect's body, much as the resiliency of a boxer's punching bag establishes its rhythm. Author of 300 Papers
        All told, Sir Vincent wrote 300 scientific papers -- and was the sole author of most of them -- between 1926 and 1993. He also wrote three other books, was Reader in Entomology at the University of London from 1936 to 1944, formed the Agricultural Research Council Unit of Insect Physiology and directed that unit until 1967.
        He received numerous honors over the years, was elected to the Royal Society in 1939 and was president of the Royal Entomological Society from 1950 to 1952.
        A doctor's son, he was born in Kirkham in Lancashire and was a second lieutenant in the Royal Artillery in the last years of World War I before studying at Cambridge.
        He was married to Katherine Semple, who died in 1986. He leaves three sons and one daughter.
      