
        Robert L. Biblo, who headed two of the nation's largest group health plans, died yesterday at the home of his son, Lee, in Pepper Pike, Ohio. He was 61.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said his wife, Joan Biblo, of Overland Park, Kan.
        Mr. Biblo had headed the New York-based Health Insurance Plan and, earlier, the Harvard Community Health Plan. Most recently he was vice president and regional manager of the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and its hospitals in Kansas City until becoming ill last year.
        Former associates said Mr. Biblo had supervised the growth of H.I.P., the largest New York-based health maintenance organization, as president and chief executive from 1978 to 1990. They said hetransformed H.I.P. from a provider of limited medical services for New York public employees to a comprehensive H.M.O. for New York, New Jersey and Florida. Membership grew by 20 percent, to 870,000, during those years, said Stephen Lewis, a senior vice president at H.I.P.
        Mr. Biblo joined the Harvard Community Health Plan, based in surburban Boston, in 1970, recruiting 80,000 members and becoming its president. "It was about to go under when he was hired," a former colleague, Thomas Pyle, head of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Companies health plans, said of the Harvard plan.
        Mr. Biblo was president of the Group Health Association of America, a trade group of health maintenance organizations, in 1982, and board chairman in 1983. He served on Federal and state health planning groups in Washington, New York and Massachusetts.
        He was also an adjunct professor or visiting lecturer at New York University, the Harvard School of Public Health, Boston University, Pennsylvania and the University of Michigan. And he wrote articles for professional journals and chapters about managed health care for eight books.
        As a young man, Mr. Biblo, who was born in Brooklyn, was an automobile worker and a union official with the United Automobile Workers in Cleveland.
        In addition to his wife and son, Mr. Biblo is survived by a daughter, Lynn Ross, of New Smyrna Beach, Fla., two brothers, Herbert, of Stony Brook, L.I., and Sidney, of Delray Beach, Fla., and four granddaughters.
      