
        Eugene Ionesco, whose wildly innovative plays, among them "Rhinoceros," "The Bald Soprano" and "The Chairs," overturned conventions of contemporary theater and had a profound effect on a new generation of playwrights, died yesterday in Paris, where he lived. He was 84.
        His death was announced by the French Cultural Ministry. The cause was not reported.
        Mr. Ionesco's "anti-plays" satirized modern society while discovering new uses of language and theatrical techniques. Inspired by silent film clowns and vaudeville, he was a playful playwright, clownish in his own personality as well as in his work onstage. With outrageous comedy, he attacked the most serious subjects: blind conformity and totalitarianism, despair and death. Repeatedly he challenged -- and accosted -- the audience and his critics. As he said, "The human drama is as absurd as it is painful." Preserver and Iconoclast
        Along with Samuel Beckett and Jean Genet, he was one of a trinity of pioneering experimental playwrights who lived and worked in Paris. Although there were thematic bridges among the three, Mr. Ionesco's distinction was in his fanciful surrealism and sense of Dada. Among the playwrights he influenced were Tom Stoppard, Fernando Arrabal, Edward Albee, Tina Howe and Christopher Durang. Mr. Ionesco was among the playwrights often grouped as practitioners of the Theater of the Absurd. He objected to the label, preferring, he said, the Theater of Derision.
        In his work, he turned drawing-room comedy on its head ("The Bald Soprano"), had a stage filled with empty chairs ("The Chairs") and transformed man into beast ("Rhinoceros"). Although his playwriting career did not begin until he was 40, he wrote 28 plays as well as several books of memoirs. The plays have been performed around the world in various languages, although in recent years his work has been neglected in the United States. Throughout his career, he was an imaginative iconoclast who could create the most bizarre imagery.
        "Rhinoceros," in its 1961 Broadway production, proved to be his breakthrough play, enriched by Zero Mostel's virtuosic performance, in which he transmogrified himself from man to rhinoceros without altering his makeup or costume. Roaring, bellowing, hilarious Mostel put the playwright on the international theatrical map, and "Rhinoceros" ran for 241 performances. But the play was only one of many that insured Mr. Ionesco's stature.
        Despite his reputation for controversy, he saw himself as a preserver of theater, a classicist and "a supreme realist." He insisted that he wrote archetypes, not stereotypes. As he said in 1958, "I believe that the aim of the avant-garde should be to rediscover -- not invent -- in their purest state, the permanent forms and forgotten ideals of the theater." He added: "I make no claim to have succeeded in this. But others will succeed, and show that all truth and reality is classical and eternal."
        He was "the Moliere of the 20th century," said Rosette C. Lamont, the author of "Ionesco's Imperatives: The Politics of Culture" (University of Michigan Press, 1993) and an acknowledged authority on Ionesco's work. "Like Moliere in his late plays," she continued, "in Ionesco's plays, there is a seamless amalgam of the comic and tragic." In her eyes, he was a master of the "metaphysical farce," an oxymoron that the playwright accepted as accurate. The World in Microcosm
        Eugene Ionesco was born in Slatina, Romania, on Nov. 26, 1909, although he took three years off his age and claimed 1912 as his birth year, presumably because he wanted to have made his name before the age of 40. His father was Romanian, his mother French.
        As a child, he lived in Paris. In an article titled "Experience in the Theater," he remembered his introduction to a world that would preoccupy him for a lifetime. The Punch and Judy show in the Luxembourg Gardens fascinated him as the puppets "talked, moved, clubbed each other." It was, he said, "the spectacle of the world itself . . . presented itself to me in an infinitely simplified and caricatured form, as if to underline its grotesque and brutal truth."
        In 1922, he returned to Romania, where he went to high school and later studied at Bucharest University. At first he wrote poetry, not plays (except for a historical drama he wrote at 13). He married Rodica Burileanu in 1936; eight years later, their daughter, Marie-France, was born. Both his wife and daughter survive.
        In 1939, Mr. Ionesco moved back to France and worked for a publisher. He became a French citizen and remained there for the rest of his life. During World War II, he and his wife were in hiding in the south of France. A 40-Year Run
        "The Bald Soprano" ("La Cantatrice Chauve") was inspired by his own attempts to learn English by using an English-French conversational manual. Copying out phrases, he realized he was relearning obvious truths, that there are seven days in a week and that the ceiling is above, the floor below. Carrying that premise to ridiculous, word-spinning heights, he wrote his first play -- and no bald soprano appeared onstage. An actor improvised those words, and Mr. Ionesco seized upon them and changed the play's title from "English Made Easy."
        The play was intended, he said, as "a parody of human behavior and therefore a parody of theater, too." Presented in 1950 at the tiny Theatre des Noctambules in Paris, it received some initially hostile reviews but became the catapult for his career. More than 40 years later, the play is still running in another theater in Paris.
        "The Bald Soprano" was quickly followed by "The Lesson" (1951), "Jack, or the Submission" and "The Chairs" (1952) and "Victims of Duty" (1953), all of which certified his avant-garde credentials. In "Amedee, or How to Get Rid of It" (1954), a corpse grows larger and larger until it takes over the stage, and in "The New Tenant" (1956), a man rents a new apartment and the furniture takes over the stage. These and other works are filled with sight gags and silent comedy as well as intricate plays on words. Murder and Other Beastliness
        "Rhinoceros" brought him his widest public. Jean-Louis Barrault starred in the play in Paris and Laurence Olivier in London. But it was the Broadway production, directed by Joseph Anthony and starring Zero Mostel and Eli Wallach, that brought him his greatest celebrity. Mostel later starred in an unsuccessful film version of the play, directed by Tom O'Horgan. "Rhinoceros" and other plays charted the progress of Mr. Ionesco's Everyman, a character named Berenger.
        In 1960, "The Killer," a comedy about a serial killer in "the radiant city," had a brief run Off Broadway, and in 1968 Ellis Raab directed "Exit the King" on Broadway. From then on, Mr. Ionesco was often absent from the New York theater. Some of his plays were presented in regional theater, with the United States premiere of "Macbett" at the Yale Repertory Theater in 1973. Taking off from Shakespeare, he regarded "Macbeth" as a grotesque joke. How else could he explain mass murder, a favorite subject for his dark comic contemplation?
        Throughout his life, he said he was apolitical, a fact he often disproved in his plays, especially those in his later period, like "A Stroll in the Air," (a cosmic walk with reference to World War II and the Holocaust) and "Man With Bags," a play about exile, in which a traveler is adrift in a world without place names. (Is there life without geography?) His last play, "Journeys Among the Dead" was scheduled to be performed at the Guggenheim Museum in 1980 but never opened. In his own life, the playwright often took strong stands on public issues, speaking out about the rights of dissidents. Other Forms of Art
        Mr. Ionesco also wrote a novel ("The Hermit") and short stories, dramatic theory ("Notes and Counter Notes"), memoirs ("Fragments of a Journal," "Present Past Past Present" and "The Intermittent Quest") and fairy tales for children. He also painted and made lithographs; in the 1980's he stopped writing plays, and devoted much of his time to painting and exhibiting his artwork.
        In 1970, he was elected a member of the French Academy. In his address to the Academy, he spoke of his faith in illogicality, the confusion of rules and the impotence of intelligence.
        On a number of occasions, he visited the United States, in 1988 for the first New York International Festival of the Arts. He delivered a lecture titled "Who Needs Theater Anymore?" His pithy answer: "Tout le monde." Looking back at "The Bald Soprano," he said that at the time "it was a pleasure to destroy language." Now, he said, he found "the disintegration of language tragic."
        In his early 20's, he wrote about his reasons for wanting to be a writer: "To allow others to share in the astonishment of being, the dazzlement of existence, and to shout to God and other human beings our anguish, letting it be known that we were there." A Manner of Speaking: Ionesco's Words
        Mrs. Martin: I can buy a pocketknife for my brother, but you can't buy Ireland for your grandfather.
        Mr. Smith: One walks on his feet, but one heats with electricity or coal.
        Mr. Martin: He who sells an ox today, will have an egg tomorrow.
        Mrs. Smith: In real life, one must look out of the window.
        Mrs. Martin: One can sit down on a chair, when the chair doesn't have any.
        Mr. Smith: One must always think of everything.
        Mr. Martin: The ceiling is above, the floor is below.
        Mrs. Smith: When I say yes, it's only a manner of speaking.
        Mrs. Martin: To each his own. -- From "The Bald Soprano" (1950)
        Roberta II: What is this, on your head?
        Jack: Guess! It's a kind of cat. I put it on at dawn.
        Roberta II: Is it a castle?
        Jack: I keep it on my head all day. At table, in the parlor, I never take it off. I don't tip it to people.
        Roberta II: Is it a camel? A capricorn?
        Jack: It'll strike with its paws, but it can till the soil.
        Roberta II: Is it a catapult?
        Jack: It weeps sometimes.
        Roberta II: Is it a catarrh?
        Jack: It can live under water.
        Roberta II: Is it a catfish?
        Jack: It can also float on the waves.
        Roberta II: Is it a catamaran?
        Jack: You're warm. -- From "Jack, or the Submission" (1952)
        Old Woman: The Orator should be here, Your Majesty . . .
        Old Man: The Orator will come.
        Old Woman: He will come.
        Old Man: He will come.
        Old Woman: He will come.
        Old Man: He will come.
        Old Woman He will come.
        Old Man: He will come, he will come.
        Old Woman: He will come. He will come.
        Old Man: He will come.
        Old Woman: He is coming.
        Old Man: He is coming.
        Old Woman: He is coming, he is here.
        Old Man: He is coming, he is here.
        Old Woman: He is coming, he is here.
        Old Man and Old Woman: He is here . . .
        Old Woman: Here he is! --From "The Chairs" (1952) A Prolific Writer's Quirky Works
        Eugene Ionesco wrote 28 plays, including several evenings of short sketches. Most of his plays were published by Grove Press in the United States and by Gallimard in France. These are among his principal works, with the date of first production.
        "The Bald Soprano" 1950
        "The Lesson" 1951
        "The Chairs" 1952
        "Jack, or the Submission" 1952
        "Victims of Duty" 1953
        "Amedee, or How to Get Rid of It" 1954
        "The New Tenant" 1955
        "The Killer" 1959
        "Rhinoceros" 1959 (New York, 1961)
        "Exit the King" 1962
        "A Stroll in the Air" 1962
        "Hunger and Thirst" 1964
        "Killing Game" 1970
        "Macbett" 1973
        "Man With Bags" 1975
        "Journey Among the Dead" 1980
      