
        Luba Potamkin, a broadcasting spokeswoman in the 1970's for her family's Cadillac auto dealerships on the East Coast, died yesterday at her home in Miami. She was 73.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said her husband, Victor Potamkin.
        Three years after her husband founded Potamkin Cadillac in 1972, Mrs. Potamkin and other members of her family appeared in television commercials that featured the line: "If this nameplate isn't on the back of your car, you probably paid too much."
        The ebullient commercials, which were also broadcast by Potamkin dealerships on television stations in Pennsylvania and Florida, were noticed. Mr. Potamkin said his forceful merchandising in New York helped his sales.
        Mrs. Potamkin, the former Luba Chalken, was born in Philadelphia. She was married to Victor for 52 years and for a large part of that time was content to be a wife and mother to her two sons.  Fighting Against Alzheimer's
        She said of her career as a Cadillac spokeswoman on television, which she amplified to include health and fashion tips, that she never studied a script in advance. She told an interviewer in 1977, "To me, it's easy because it's my business and I'm thrilled to say, 'Buy a Cadillac.' "
        Her son Alan recalled yesterday that the ad campaign was hatched by his father, who convinced his wife, who was at first reluctant, to do it.
        The Potamkin family relinquished the dealership in 1987, selling the assets and leasing the company's Manhattan real estate to General Motors.  For several years the dealership fell into decline under new operators with a more muted television campaign.
        Two years ago the Potamkin family resumed operations under the name Potamkin Cadillac-Buick-Chevrolet.
        Mrs. Potamkin then became a symbol of the fight against Alzheimer's disease, which she was diagnosed as having in the late 1970's. She and her husband made major donations to research into the disease, and in 1987 the Potamkin family created the Potamkin Prize for Alzheimer Research, an annual award of $100,000. They were also active in sponsoring fund-raising events for medical research.
        In addition to her husband, who maintains homes in New York, Philadelphia and Miami, she is survived by two sons, Robert, of Philadelphia and Alan, of Miami; a sister, Florence Jans of Miami; a brother, Marvin Chaiken of Tucson, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      