
        Bill Winfrey, a trainer of thoroughbreds including Native Dancer and a host of other champions, died on Thursday in a hospital at Lake Forest, Calif. A resident of San Clemente, Calif., he was 77.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        In all, Mr. Winfrey trained 38 stakes winners, including Loser Weeper, Social Outcast, Find, Buckpasser, Bed O'Roses and Next Move. He was inducted into the National Museum of Racing Hall of Fame at Saratoga Springs, N.Y., in 1971.
        In 1964, he was trainer for the Wheatley Stable when it set a record for the most money won in a single year, $1,350,534. But it was Native Dancer -- the come-from-behind Gray Ghost -- with which Mr. Winfrey's name remained linked. One Missing Victory
        The gray colt won the nine races he started as a 2-year-old in 1952. Altogether, he ran 22 races and won them all, except the 1953 Kentucky Derby.
        The odds-on favorite, Native Dancer was slammed and forced wide on a turn. Running fastest from two lengths behind, he lost to Dark Star by a head. He then bested Dark Star in the Preakness and won the Belmont as well.
        A modest man, Mr. Winfrey said his most famous charge "could have trained himself." A foot injury forced the retirement of Native Dancer in 1954. Quit School to Ride
        William Colin Winfrey was born Colin Dickard in Detroit. After his father died, he was adopted by G. Carey Winfrey, a noted horse trainer. He quit school at 15 to become a jockey and won four races before his weight grounded him.
        He began to train at 18 as the youngest licensed trainer in the country, established his own stable with a winning filly named Dini and won his first stakes race in 1938. He served with the Marines in the South Pacific in World War II. At age 49 in 1965, he went into semiretirement in California, where he bought and trained a few horses of his own.
        Mr. Winfrey is survived by his wife of 42 years, Elaine; a son, Carey of Manhattan; three daughters, Mary Harlow of San Clemente, Jan Winfrey of San Diego and Jill Camara of Chiapas, Mexico; two stepsons, Michael and Craig Winfrey, both of Sacramento, Calif.; a sister, Jan Burke of North Palm Beach, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      