
        Rear Adm. Ralph K. James, who headed the Navy's Bureau of Ships from 1959 to 1963 and oversaw repairs to battle-damaged American warships in World War II, died on March 31 at the Ginger Cove retirement community in Annapolis, Md. He was 87.
        Admiral James, who retired from the Navy in 1963, died of pneumonia, said Kathy Osterman of the John M. Taylor Funeral Home in Annapolis.
        While he was the chief of the Bureau of Ships, its broad and varied responsibilities included the design, construction and procurement of naval vessels and related research and development. For the fiscal year 1962, his office was responsible for administering a $4 billion shipbuilding budget. Ship Race in the Atlantic
        In 1961, Admiral James was on board when the Navy's new nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Enterprise outraced one of the greyhounds of the fleet, the destroyer Laffey, during sea trials in the Atlantic.
        The carrier's top speed in the trials was kept secret, but the admiral said afterward that "we whipped this tremendous hull around" somewhat like a speedboat.
        The admiral was president of the American Society of Naval Engineers and of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers while he headed the bureau, which was replaced in 1966 by the Ships Systems Command and the Electronics Systems Command.
        Born in Chicago, he graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1928 and earned an M.S. degree in naval architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1933.
        It was in the South Pacific in World War II that he supervised repairs to a number of major naval vessels, which had been damaged by the enemy. He was awarded the Bronze Star and the Legion of Merit for that work, and the Distinguished Service Medal when he retired from the Navy.
        He then became the executive director of the Committee of American Steamship Lines, an industry organization. He held the post for some years.
        He is survived by his wife of 65 years, the former Virginia Cooper; a daughter, Patricia Withers of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a son, Richard Kirk James of Pittsburgh; four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      