
        Berton Roueche, a staff writer at The New Yorker for nearly 50 years who originated the Annals of Medicine series that chronicled the war against disease in elegant narratives of medical intrigue and detection, died yesterday at his home in Amagansett, L.I. He was 83 years old.
        He committed suicide, said his wife, Katherine Eisenhower Roueche, who discovered the body.
        Cpl. Bert Ryan of the East Hampton Town Police said that Mr. Roueche's body was on a chair on the patio, dead of a shotgun wound to the head. An investigation is continuing.
        Mrs. Roueche said her husband had emphysema for five years and had been depressed after he was discharged from treatment for the ailment at Southampton Hospital on Wednesday.
        Though his last piece for The New Yorker, on aplastic anemia, was published more than three years ago, Mr. Roueche (pronounced roo-SHAY) remained on the magazine staff until his death, a spokesman for the magazine said. He also wrote 20 books, including collections of his New Yorker pieces, the first of which, "Eleven Blue Men" (1954), was awarded a Raven by the Mystery Writers of America for the best book in a mystery field outside the regular categories of crime novels and crime reporting. Educating Doctors
        In an appreciation of Mr. Roueche's work, Lawrence K. Altman of The New York Times wrote: "For many students, collections of his pieces have become unofficial textbooks of epidemiology and sometimes required reading. Occasionally, questions on medical examinations have been based on his articles." He added: "Many doctors may have learned as much about epidemiology from Mr. Roueche as from their medical school professors."
        Mr. Roueche once said in an interview: "My annals of medical detection are often said to resemble the classic detective story. Actually, the classic detective story owes its nature to medicine." He explained that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle derived Sherlock Holmes's method from an Edinburgh diagnostician, Dr. Joseph Ball.
        Mr. Roueche received awards from the American Medical Association, the New England Journal of Medicine, the Kansas City Academy of Medicine, the American Medical Writers Association and the Lasker Foundation.
        His other books include "The Incurable Wound" (1958), "The Neutral Spirit" (1960), "Annals of Epidemiology" (1967), "The Orange Man and Other Narratives of Medical Detection" (1971), "The Medical Detectives" (1980) and "The Medical Detectives II" (1984). Mr. Roueche was also the editor of a medical anthology, "Curiosities of Medicine" (1963), and "Handbook for World Travelers: Field Guide to Disease" (1967). 'Ten Feet Tall'
        His novels of suspense include "Black Weather" (1945), "The Last Enemy" (1956), "Feral" (1974) and "Fago" (1977).
        "Ten Feet Tall," one of his New Yorker medical narratives describing the negative effects of cortisone, was made into a 1956 motion picture, "Bigger Than Life," starring James Mason.
        Mr. Roueche was born in Kansas City and received an undergraduate journalism degree at the University of Missouri in 1933 and was a reporter for The Kansas City Star, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch and The St. Louis Globe-Democrat.
        In 1944 he was hired by William Shawn, the managing editor of The New Yorker, as a staff writer, working on Talk of the Town items and Reporter at Large pieces as well as fiction. The Annals of Medicine department was created for him in 1946 by magazine's editor, Harold Ross.
        Mr. Roueche and Katherine Eisenhower were married in 1936. Aside from his wife, he is survived by a son, Bradford, of Spencer, Mass., and a brother, Col. Mossman Roueche of Sarasota, Fla.
      