
        Joseph Luis Lopez Jr., a co-author of "I Will Sing Life: Voices From the Hole in the Wall," an award-winning book by and about children with life-threatening medical problems, died on Thursday at his family home in Jersey City, N.J. He was 15.
        He died of AIDS after being in a coma for two weeks, said his stepmother, Susan Lopez. The youth liked to call himself Joe Louis Lopez, after the boxer Joe Louis.
        Dr. Howard A. Pearson, a professor of pediatrics at Yale Medical School, said Joe had been H.I.V. positive since birth.
        "He was a fighter and was fighting for life really up until the very end," said Dr. Pearson, who is also the medical director of the Hole in the Wall Gang Camp, a camp for children with cancer and other life-threatening diseases in Ashford, in northeastern Connecticut.
        Joe was at the camp for the last three summers. He collaborated on the 206-page book, published by Little, Brown in 1992, with six other campers -- ages 7 to 19 and suffering from various illnesses -- and with two camp counselors, Larry Berger and Dahlia Lithwick. 'You Have to Beat It'
        "H.I.V. is nothing," Joe said in the book. "It's just a virus. It's just like being sick for a long time, for always. I say, put on your gloves and fight 'em, go 10 rounds. You have to beat it. But some people, they're scared, they just say, 'Nah, I can't beat it, I can't.' They don't care about themselves because they think they're dying. I got nothing to talk about dying. I ain't dying yet."
        "I Will Sing Life," which has an introduction by the actor Paul Newman, the camp's founder and president, won awards from the New York Public Library and the National Association for the Care of Children's Health. It has been published in Denmark and Germany.
        The youth was born in Hoboken, N.J., moved to Jersey City in 1987 and graduated last year from P.S. 27 in Jersey City. At his death he was in the ninth grade at Emerson High School in Union City, N.J.
        His mother, Lucy Santos Lopez, who passed the virus to her son at birth, died in 1986 of AIDS, Susan Lopez said.
        In addition to his stepmother, the former Susan Fallo, he is survived by his father, Joseph Luis Lopez of Jersey City; two brothers, Charles and Matthew, also of Jersey City; his four grandparents, Tomas and Martha Santos of Hoboken, Maria Miranda of Union City, N.J., and Luis Medina of Jersey City; and a step-grandmother, Barbara Fallo of Hoboken.
      