
        Owen Cardinal McCann, a South African foe of apartheid who was the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Cape Town from 1951 to 1984, died on March 26. He was 86 and had a home in Wynberg, a suburb of Cape Town.
        He died of a heart attack, The Times of London said on Friday.
        Cardinal McCann, whose father was from Ireland and his mother from Australia, became South Africa's first Cardinal in 1965.
        Early in Cardinal McCann's tenure as Archbishop, the South African Catholic Church began campaigning against apartheid. In 1976, in an open letter to the Government, he made a particularly strong attack on its racial segregation policy and related matters. His attack came at the height of anti-Government rioting in black communities. 'Sense of Injustice'
        "We see these upheavals as the result of a burning sense of injustice among those who are deprived of so many rights," he wrote. "Depriving a person of his rights as a human being is a kind of violence."
        In the letter, he also set forth demands for widespread reforms, including voting rights for black residents and the abolition of laws segregating education and banning interracial marriage. He also called for better housing for black residents and the elimination of laws permitting detention without trial.
        It was not until 1952 that the Catholic hierarchy in South Africa publicly denounced policies subordinating blacks. By Dec. 31, 1990, South Africa had an estimated 2,800,000 Roman Catholics.
        The Cardinal accompanied Pope John Paul II on his visit in 1988 to five African nations, but not including South Africa. During the journey, John Paul also voiced strong criticism of apartheid. A Vatican official said the Cardinal had been asked to join the Pontiff as a gesture of respect and affection for South African Roman Catholics.
        The Cardinal was born in Cape Town and was a railway clerk and a student at the University of Cape Town before studying in Rome at the Urban College for the Propagation of the Faith. A Newspaper Editor
        He was ordained in 1935 and went on to hold a variety of church posts, including the editorship of The Southern Cross, the national Roman Catholic newspaper.
        In 1971 the Cardinal joined the Chief Rabbi of Johannesburg, B. M. Casper, in endorsing a proposal by the Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, the Most Rev. Robert Selby Taylor, for a commission to investigate charges that the security police had mistreated political prisoners.
        When the Cardinal retired as Archbishop of Cape Town in 1984, he was succeeded by Archbishop Stephen Naidoo, a South African of Indian descent.
      