
        Paul E. Spangler, a retired Navy surgeon who took up running at the age of 67 to prolong his life, died on March 29, providing evidence that his theory on longevity was correct.
        Dr. Spangler, whose family said he died while on one of the seven-mile runs he made three times a week near his home in San Luis Obispo, Calif., was 95.
        In the 28 years since he began running, Dr. Spangler claimed 85 national age group records at various distances. In his last competition, in February, he won several gold medals at a senior Olympics meet in Palm Springs, Calif. Served in World War I
        By the time he began running, in 1966, Dr. Spangler had lived what many would consider a long, full life. A native of Oregon, he had served with the Navy in World War I. He had been graduated from the University of Oregon and from the Harvard Medical College. He had taken up flying, becoming the first doctor, according to his family, to obtain a pilot's license. He had formed barbershop quartets all over the world, and had given long service to his country.
        As a Navy doctor, he was chief of surgery at the base hospital near Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, and after he retired as a captain in 1959, he served as chief medical officer aboard the hospital ship Hope on a 1960 tour of southeast Asia. After that, he was a surgeon at the California Men's Colony, a state prison in San Luis Obispo. Climbing Mountains Not Enough
        Dr. Spangler was chairman of his chapter of the American Heart Association when he realized that being a weekend athlete, playing tennis, climbing mountains and digging clams, was not enough to stave off heart disease.
        Running became his career.
        "Running has meant everything to me," he said before competing in the 1989 New York City Marathon at the age of 90. "My only mission in life now is to convince people this is possible. With proper living, they can eliminate coronary heart disease."
        Dr. Spangler, who had completed 10 marathons, dropped out after 19 miles, having tired himself out before the race, he said, "giving too many interviews." He completed the 1991 race at the age of 92.
        Dr. Spangler, whose first marriage ended in divorce and whose second wife died several years ago, is survived by a son, Paul A. Spangler; three daughters, Barbara Kuhne, Betty Nolen and Margo Krolczyk; 14 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren.
      