
        Dr. Robert Lowell Krigel, a cancer specialist who led a 1979 campaign in New York City to relieve the grinding work schedules of hospital interns and residents, died on Sunday at his home in Elkins Park, Pa. He was 44.
        The cause was angiosarcoma of the liver, a rare cancerous tumor, the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia reported. Dr. Krigel was director of hematology at Fox Chase from 1984 until last year.
        He specialized in cancers of the blood and immune system. At his death, he was chief of hematology and oncology as well as director of the cancer program at Lankenau Hospital in suburban Wynnewood, Pa., while continuing to work as a researcher and consultant for Fox Chase.
        A native of Kansas City, Mo., Dr. Krigel was a high school wrestling star and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1971. He received his medical degree from Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York and trained in internal medicine at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, where he served as chief resident, and at Kings County Medical Center.
        It was at Kings County, in January 1979, that he doffed his white coat and stethoscope, put on a blue parka and, armed with a bullhorn, led some 100 interns and residents in a one-day protest outside. The protest, which received widespread attention, was staged to criticize a cut in financing and to seek a reduced work week, which often reached 80 to 96 hours.
        The protesters returned to the hospital as needed, but their picketing had no immediate effect. Only through legislative action a few years ago were the work schedules lightened because of evidence that the wearying hours could affect a young doctor's judgment.
        Dr. Krigel went on to train in hematology and oncology at the New York University Medical Center, where he played a role in the clinical management of AIDS and AIDS-related cancers. He was among the first doctors to treat AIDS patients with chemotherapy and biological agents known as interferons.
        Dr. Krigel is survived by his wife, Dr. D. Bonnie Perlmutter; their children, Jonathan, 11, and Anna, 7; his parents, Melvin and Selvi, of Kansas City, and two brothers, Michael, of Sunnyvale, Calif., and Barry, of Shawnee Mission, Kan.
      