
        Dr. Carl Pfaffmann, a physiological psychologist who explored the senses of smell and taste and their pathways in the brain, died on Saturday at the Wadsworth Glen in Middletown, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Middletown.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said a spokesman for Rockefeller University, where he served as its first Vincent and Brooke Astor Professor.
        Dr. Pfaffmann investigated how past experience, diet and hormonal conditions influence humans and animals in their preferences or aversions in odors and taste. His findings advanced the understanding of brain mechanisms and the biological basis of behavior.
        He joined Rockefeller in 1965 as a professor and vice president. The appointment was described as a first step toward a broad program of graduate teaching and research in the behavioral sciences, with emphasis on the relations between the natural and social sciences. A Leading Role
        During his tenure, Dr. Pfaffmann played a pivotal role when the university established leading laboratories in physiological psychology, neurobiology and animal behavior. He retired as vice president in 1978, was named Vincent and Brooke Astor Professor two years later, and reached emeritus status in 1983.
        He was best known for his central discovery that a pattern of neuronal, or brain cell, activity could signal the quality of taste, said Prof. Donald W. Pfaff, a former collaborator who now heads the neurobiology and behavior laboratory at Rockefeller. He said his colleague had been "the unquestioned leader in chemosensory research for years."
        Carl Pfaffmann was born in Manhattan and graduated from Brown University in 1933. He studied at Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar and earned a Ph.D. in physiology as a research student at Cambridge University.
        He returned to Brown in 1940 to join the psychology faculty and remained until 1965, except for four years in the United States Navy. Commissioned an officer in World War II, he served as an aviation psychologist and was discharged as a commander. Received a Guggenheim
        Brown appointed him professor of psychology in 1952. In 1960, he was named Florence Pirce Grant University Professor of Psychology and was awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship. He held the endowed chair until his move to Rockefeller five years later.
        The author of more than 100 scientific papers, he was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and numerous other professional organizations.
        Dr. Pfaffmann is survived by his wife of 54 years, Louise Brooks Pfaffmann; a daughter, Ellen P. Rosenzweig of Brooklyn; a son, Dr. William F. of Glastonbury, Conn.; a sister, Anna P. Kuhlmann of Madison, Wis., and four grandchildren.
      