
        William Horowitz, a Connecticut banker who was also a leader in his state's educational, religious and civic affairs, died on Monday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. Mr. Horowitz, who lived in Branford, Conn., was 86.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, David.
        A longtime resident of New Haven, Mr. Horowitz was from 1965 to 1971 a fellow of the Yale Corporation, the university's governing board of trustees. He served on the Connecticut Board of Education from 1955 to 1973.
        Mr. Horowitz graduated from Yale in 1929, working his way through school as a Hebrew teacher in a local synagogue. His bridge between Judaism and education continued throughout his life, and he became the university's first Jewish trustee. In addition, he helped raise funds for Yale's Judaic studies program, and in 1984 the William and Miriam Horowitz Lectureship in Judaic Studies was created at the school to honor Mr. and Mrs. Horowitz. Active in Many Causes
        Mr. Horowitz was a vice president and a director of Botwinik Brothers, manufacturers of machinery in New Haven, a company for which he worked from 1930 until 1972. In 1950 he also became president of the General Industrial Bank, serving for 20 years until it merged with the Hartford National Bank.
        At various times he was a director of the International Student Center in New Haven, the Connecticut Educational Television Corp., the Yale-New Haven Hospital, as well as a trustee of the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History. He also was a vice president of WELI, a New Haven radio station.
        Mr. Horowitz is survived by his wife; his son, of Northampton, Mass.; a daughter, Judith H. Katz, of Buffalo; a sister, Rose Marks, of Kansas City, Mo.; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 4, 1994, Wednesday
        An obituary on April 28 about William Horowitz, a Connecticut banker who was a leader in his state's educational, religious and civic affairs, misstated the given name of his son, who survives him. It is Daniel, not David. The obituary also misstated the business of Botwinik Brothers, where Mr. Horowitz was a vice president and director. The concern sells machinery; it does not manufacture it.
      