
        Jerome Lejeune, a French geneticist who discovered the chromosome abnormality in humans that causes Down syndrome, a common form of mental retardation, died on April 3 in Paris. He was 67 and lived in Paris.
        The cause was lung cancer, Agence France-Presse reported, citing unidentified sources. He was a heavy smoker.
        Dr. Lejeune was a professor of fundamental genetics at Rene Descartes University in Paris and was affiliated with the Hopital Necker-Enfants Malades and, for many years, with the French Centre Nationale de la Recherche Scientifique.
        In 1959, a paper by Dr. Lejeune showed that the cells of people with Down syndrome contain 47 chromosomes, one more than the 46 that had been found, not long before, to be the normal human complement. What causes the extra chromosome has not been discovered. 'A Very Good Investigator'
        Dr. Charles J. Epstein, an American geneticist and expert on Down syndrome who is the chairman of the scientific advisory board of the New York-based National Down Syndrome Society, said: "Dr. Lejeune was very inquisitive and very diligent. He was a very good investigator who used the latest techniques and was concerned about the problem of Down syndrome, and so he put it all together."
        Dr. Lejeune, who was then on the research staff of the Centre Nationale, demonstrated that Down syndrome was caused by the presence of an extra chromosome, of the type known as chromosome 21, in the genome -- the genetic material that is responsible for the development and function of the human being -- in every cell of the body of a person with Down syndrome. The human genome normally contains two chromosome 21's per cell.
        Chromosomes are microscopically small bodies located in the nuclei of cells of animals and plants. They contain hereditary materials that ordain an organism's growth, development and traits.
        Down syndrome had been known for about 100 years before Dr. Lejeune's discovery, and it had been suggested that the syndrome might be due to some kind of chromosome abnormality. A Key Breakthrough
        Then, in 1958, other investigators devised a way of displaying human chromosomes for study on a microscope slide, so that they could be counted easily. It was because Dr. Lejeune was quick to take advantage of that advance that he became the first investigator to show that Down syndrome was in fact due to such a chromosome problem.
        Dr. Epstein, a professor of pediatrics at the University of California, San Francisco, said that Dr. Lejeune's discovery "basically opened up the whole scientific field of what you might call clinical cytogenetics -- the field that deals with genetic disorders resulting from different types of chromosome abnormalities." There are hundreds of such disorders.
        After his discovery, Dr. Lejeune became a prominent advocate of humane care for people with Down syndrome, whose symptoms include characteristic physical features and, frequently, congenital heart disease, in addition to mental retardation. Roughly one in every 800 to 1,000 babies is born with the syndrome.
        "He showed a very deep concern for the individuals affected with the syndrome and attempted to use his findings and the findings of others to help them," said another geneticist, Dr. David Patterson, president of the Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, a research center in Denver. He is heading a largescale study of Down syndrome and chromosome 21.
        In addition, Dr. Lejeune was a pioneer in clinical cytogenetics and carried out numerous clinical and biochemical studies of people with Down syndrome. His 1959 discovery allowed him to begin research to understand how the extra chromosome caused the syndrome's abnormalities. But he and other researchers have not found the answer to that question.
        His discovery also led to the development by other scientists of techniques of prenatal diagnosis of Down syndrome and other chromosome disorders by analyzing amniotic fluid and by other means.
        Dr. Lejeune himself went on to describe several other abnormalities in humans that are associated with extra chromosomes or with missing pieces of chromosomes. These abnormalities include what has been called the cri du chat syndrome, which results from the loss of the tip of another type of chromosome, chromosome 5. That syndrome is associated with severe mental retardation and with a characteristic cry, emitted by newborn infants, which resembles that of a cat.
        Dr. Lejeune was also active in France and elsewhere as an opponent of abortion and as an advocate on related issues. He was the chairman of a French anti-abortion movement called "Let Them Live" and an adviser to Pope John Paul II, who last month named him head of a new Pontifical Academy for Life.
        The doctor was born in Montrouge, near Paris. He studied at the University of Paris and received a doctorate in medicine in 1951 and one in science in 1960.
        His writings include the 1965 book "Les Chromosomes Humains," of which he was a co-coauthor.
        In 1962, President Kennedy presented Dr. Lejeune with an award, for his research on Down syndrome, on behalf of the Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation, which was founded in memory of his oldest brother. The doctor also won a number of other awards.
        In addition, he was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; the French Academies of Medicine and of Moral and Political Sciences; the Pontifical Academy of Sciences and other learned bodies.
        His survivors include his wife of 42 years, the former Birthe Bringsted; two sons and three daughters.
      