
        John Curry, the elegant 1976 Olympic champion who infused figure skating with the possibilities of dance, died yesterday of an AIDS-related heart attack, his agent said. Mr. Curry was 44.
        The British skater died at his home near Stratford upon Avon, England, said the agent, Jean Diamond. As a skater, Mr. Curry was a visionary, redefining his sport with balletic sophistication. Later, attempting to educate the public, he became one of the few athletes who spoke openly of being homosexual and having contracted AIDS.
        "He represented a milestone in skating," Mr. Curry's former coach, Carlo Fassi of Italy, told The Associated Press. "He completely changed skating, turning it into a real art. This is a painful loss for the skating world."
        Dick Button, the men's Olympic champion in 1948 and 1952, said yesterday in a statement that Mr. Curry was "the finest and most intelligent all-around skater I've ever seen. He skated with a combination of superior athleticism, solid technique, classical line and musical sensitivity. And he was choreographically inventive." A Smothered Ambition
        Born in Birmingham, England, in 1949, Mr. Curry wanted to become a ballet dancer, but that ambition was smothered by his father. Instead he turned to the expressiveness of skating. At age 7, he was introduced to the sport, which reminded him of dance.
        By 1970, he had become the British national champion. But Mr. Curry found the training facilities inadequate in England, and in 1973 he moved to Colorado to train with Mr. Fassi, who had previously coached the 1968 Olympic champion Peggy Fleming.
        At the 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria, Curry faced tough competition from Vladimir Kovalev of the Soviet Union and Toller Cranston of Canada, as well as skepticism from Eastern Bloc judges who preferred a more athletic rather than artistic style.
        In the short program, Curry removed a planned spread-eagle flourish from his approach to a double axel jump. The East European judges apparently appreciated that he did not embellish upon what was required. In the long program, Curry sufficiently balanced his refined style with vaulting jumps to receive higher marks than Kovalev, the silver medalist, from eight of the nine judges. Pure Ballet
        "I think he brought the purest form of ballet to the ice," Ms. Fleming said of Mr. Curry yesterday in a telephone interview. "He was a real purist, totally devoted to the art of skating. He also had the technique and athleticism to make that art look effortless. It was a wonderful blend of what skating is about -- art and sport. It's a huge loss."
        Unbound by amateur rules as a professional, Mr. Curry continued to explore alternate forms of skating, bringing his acclaimed "IceDancing" show to Broadway in 1977-78 and later touring with his evolutionary John Curry Skating Company. He disdained the standard glitzy ice shows, telling Jennifer Dunning of The New York Times in 1984, "I never could see the point of spending 12 years training to go dress up in a Bugs Bunny suit."
        Later that year, he told Anita Finkel of The Times, "I was brought up on the Royal Ballet, and I hope it shows in my work."
        In 1987, Mr. Curry contracted H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. By 1991, he had developed AIDS, and he returned to England from New York, where he had been living since the 1980's, to live with his widowed mother, Rita Curry. At first, Mr. Curry told The London Daily Mail in a first-person article in 1992, he felt "ashamed" at having contracted a sexually transmitted disease. Later, he disclosed his homosexuality, writing in The Daily Mail: "I just accept being homosexual as the way I am. I don't think of it as being bad or wrong or to do with any form of illness. I never pretended not to be homosexual, ever."
        Speaking of the AIDS virus, Mr. Curry added: "I think the more open people are, the easier it gets for everybody else because it demystifies it. I don't want others to be frightened like I was, and I want people to understand the importance of safe sex. After all, no one is immune."
        He is survived by his mother.
      