
        Matthew Feldman, a New Jersey Democratic legislative leader who served as Mayor of Teaneck and then for 22 years in the State Senate, died yesterday in Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 75.
        The Office of the Senate Democrats said he died of natural causes.
        Over a long political career, which ended with his retirement from the Senate in January, Mr. Feldman succeeded best in the art of conciliation.
        His first major accomplishment as Mayor in the early 1960's was achieving racial and political harmony during integration of its schools and neighborhoods.
        In a Senate career that began with one term in the mid-1960's and then a stretch of 20 years until his retirement, he sponsored a wide array of legislation. He was the longtime chairman of the Senate Education Committee at the time of his retirement.
        In 1966, he was the principle sponsor of a bill that established the New Jersey Department of Higher Education. He also sponsored bills creating the New Jersey Motion Pictures and Television Commission and the Quality Education Act of 1990.
        As an ally of Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, Mr. Feldman played a leading role in 1976 in lining up votes for an income tax.
        As a young boxer in Jersey City, Mr. Feldman helped break up meetings of the pro-Nazi German-American Bund. He attended a 1985 meeting in Bitburg, Germany, to protest President Ronald Reagan's visit to a cemetery where members of Hitler's Waffen SS are buried.
        Mr. Feldman also was an ardent supporter of the creation of Israel. He attended the University of North Carolina and Panzer College.
        After serving as an Army Air Force captain in World War II, he joined a family-owned wholesale liquor distribution company. In 1977, his political career was briefly jeopardized when he was fined $6,000 in Federal Court after admitting making illegal payments to restaurants that would agree to purchase his liquor.
        Mr. Feldman's wife, Muriel, died five months ago. He is survived by two daughters, Beth Metzger of Englewood, N.J. and Rachel Silverstein of North Brunswick, N.J.; a son, Daniel of Maplewood, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
        A funeral will be held at noon today at the Jewish Community Center in Teaneck.
      