
        Maxwell Stewart McKnight, a retired lawyer and former State Department official who held diplomatic posts in postwar Europe, died on Friday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 83.
        Mr. McKnight, who lived in Washington, died of cancer, his family said.
        He was a native of Bayside, Queens, studied in Paris at l'Institut du Pantheon and the Alliance Francaise and graduated from Yale in 1933. After receiving a degree from Yale Law School in 1935 he became an assistant United States Attorney in Manhattan, where he prosecuted many fraud cases. Prosecuted War Crimes
        Commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army Reserves in 1933, he was called to active duty after the United States entered World War II in 1941 and rose to the rank of colonel. He served in counterintelligence, in the provost marshal's office and with the Under Secretary of War in Washington.
        Mr. McKnight joined the Department of State in 1946 and was attached to the United States mission to the United Nations. In 1948 he was assigned to Dachau, West Germany, to prosecute war crimes.
        He was later posted in Paris and West Berlin, where he served as executive secretary of the Berlin unit of the United States High Commission during the Soviet Union's land blockade of Berlin's Allied sectors in 1948-49. In Paris, he helped to administer the Marshall Plan.
        Mr. McKnight left Government service in 1954 and joined the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, an affiliate of Mobil Oil in the Far East. He later became a senior adviser to Mobil Oil, but moved to the National Petroleum Council in Washington in 1968 as general counsel and petroleum adviser to the United States delegation on the Law of the Sea. He retired in 1975.
        He is survived by his third wife, Laura Winter McKnight; three daughters, Micheline Gunter of London, Gayle Hanset of Sumner, Wash., and Erica Jessel of Stevenson, Wash.; a brother, J. Oakey McKnight of Sarasota, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      