
        Queen Zein al-Sharaf, the mother of King Hussein of Jordan and in past years an influential figure behind the scenes in his turbulent realm, died yesterday in a hospital in Lausanne, Switzerland. She was 86, the Reuters news agency reported, and had lived in Amman, Jordan.
        Queen Zein, who was sometimes called the Queen Mother, had been being treated for a heart ailment, a communique issued by King Hussein's staff in Amman said.
        She married her first cousin, Talal, son of King Abdullah, in 1934, when the country was known as Trans-Jordan and had nominal independence under a British mandate. She gave birth to the future King Hussein on Nov. 14, 1935.
        She played a central role in the Jordanian ruling family in that era, and she led national relief efforts to help tens of thousands of Palestinian refugees who fled to Jordan during the 1948 Middle East War.
        In 1951, King Abdullah was assassinated by a Palestinian belonging to a radical Islamic organization and was succeeded by Talal. But the new King suffered from mental illness, and in August 1952, the Jordanian Parliament removed him and proclaimed his eldest son, Hussein, as his successor.
        Queen Zein emerged as a protector of the young King Hussein's throne in his tense and difficult first years in power. Her influence on the King ranged from matters of state to matters of the heart.
        In 1960, she counseled him at a time when he was angry at some other Arab governments that Syria was more of a danger than was Iraq.
        She also supported King Hussein's decision to marry a Briton, Antoinette Gardiner, as his second wife, in 1961. That marriage lasted 11 years.
        A British journalist and author, Peter Snow, wrote in a 1972 book, "Hussein: a Biography," that Queen Zein "had a strong personality and a keen political instinct that later, after Abdullah's death, made her a powerful backstage influence."
        Her survivors include her and King Talal's four children. In addition to King Hussein, they are Prince Mohammed, Prince Hassan and Princess Basma.
      