
        Andre Tchelistcheff, a seminal figure in the modern California wine industry and an enologist of international renown, died on Tuesday at Queen of the Valley Hospital in Napa, Calif. He was 92.
        Mr. Tchelistcheff had cancer of the esophagus and underwent surgery to remove a stomach tumor last week, said Rich Cartiere, editor of Wine Business Monthly, a trade publication.
        Over the years, Mr. Tchelistcheff worked with dozens of now famous wineries and counseled countless men and women, many of them now retired, who went on to become prominent winemakers in their own right.
        But for most of his of his 56-year wine career in California, he was associated with Beaulieu Vineyards, at Rutherford, in the Napa Valley, and especially with Beaulieu's signature wine, Georges de Latour Private Reserve Cabernet Sauvignon.  Taking On France's Best
        Mr. de Latour, a native of the Dordogne who first bought the Beaulieu estate in 1899, made a fortune selling sacramental wine during Prohibition. After repeal, he decided to make a California wine to rival France's best, and he concluded that only a French wine maker could do it for him.
        He had not planned on hiring a White Russian refugee, but after meeting Mr. Tchelistcheff in Paris in 1938, he decided to do just that. Mr. Tchelistcheff (pronounced CHEL-uh-cheff) arrived in California later that year and began a relationship with Beaulieu that lasted until 1973, when he retired for the first time.
        In 1969, the de Latour family sold Beaulieu to Heublein, a Connecticut wine and spirits company that is now a division of IDV, a British conglomerate. Mr. Tchelistcheff later said his relationship with the corporate entity was never the same as it had been with the de Latour family.
        In a move widely seen as a public relations ploy, Heublein rehired him as a consultant two years ago when he was 90. "I am not looking for a new career," he said at the time. "But I still have work I want to do."
        Andre Tchelistcheff was born in this century, but his life before he came to California was the stuff of a Tolstoy novel. His family had been landowners and farmers in the country 140 miles west of Moscow for eight centuries.
        A sickly child, he was tutored at home until 1911, when he was sent away to school. In the 1917 revolution, his father, a judge and law professor, sided at first with the Bolsheviks. But his socialist credentials were deemed suspect and the family fled south to the protection of the White Russian army.  Studies in Paris
        Andre, then 17, went to a military academy and as a junior officer, joined the Allied armies' retreat through the Crimea to Gallipoli. Unable to return to Russia, he enrolled in the University of Brno in Czechoslovakia and studied agronomy. In 1930 he moved to Paris to continue his studies in wine-making and the cultivation of grapes. For a time he worked in the cellars of Moet & Chandon in Champagne.
        Mr. Tchelistcheff never lost his European savoir-faire and courtly manner. Women were addressed as "madam" and men as "my dear sir." His voice, heavily accented, was easier to understand in French than English.
        "Well, when I think of wine, I think in French," he would say. His long Slavic face and high cheekbones recalled portraits of Nijinsky or an icon of some forgotten Orthodox saint. He was a diminutive man, barely reaching five feet tall, and when he smiled his slanted eyes seemed to close entirely.
        Mr. Tchelistcheff was always quick to dispel myths about the origin of Beaulieu's Private Reserve.
        "I did not create it," he said. "Mr. de Latour did." In fact, the first vintage of the wine was produced in 1936. When it was released in 1940, shortly after Mr. de Latour's death, his name was added to the label.
        To call Andre Tchelistcheff an enologist, or wine maker, was not entirely accurate, even though his professional success was based on his wine-making skills. "Wine begins in the vineyard," he often said, "and always, always, we must come back to the vineyard."
        "I think it was a question of prestige" he once said of his own fame. "The wine maker wore a white coat; he was a scientist; he knew the secrets. The grower was a dirt farmer. What did he know of fine wines?" Offers to Open Winery
        Over the years, Mr. Tchelistcheff consulted with wineries including Robert Mondavi, Louis M. Martini, Franciscan Vineyards, Firestone, Jordan and Buena Vista in California, and with wineries in Washington State and in Italy. But there was never a Tchelistcheff winery.
        "I never had the courage," he once said. "There were offers; people with money who wanted to be my partners. But, remember, I am a child of revolution. I know what it means to lose everything overnight."
        One goal he was never to achieve was to return to his ancestral Russian home. "They told me the estate is gone but that in the graveyard they found the cross on my grandfather's tomb. Oh, I would like to see that."
        Survivors include his wife, Dorothy; a son, Dmitri, a prominent enologist, of Wellington, Nev.; two grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      