
        Tribal warfare brought Cyprien Ntaryamira to power in Burundi and dominated his brief presidency, which reportedly ended yesterday when the plane in which he was traveling was shot down in the neighboring country of Rwanda.
        Mr. Ntaryamira, 39, was the second member of the majority Hutu tribe to become head of state since Burundi gained independence from Belgium in 1962. The first was his predecessor, Melchior Ndadaye, who was assassinated on Oct. 21, along with several members of his cabinet, by factions of the minority Tutsi tribe, which has dominated the Government for most of the country's modern history, and which still dominates the military.
        Burundi, like Rwanda, has been plagued by war between Hutus and Tutsis. The most recent fighting began with Mr. Ndadaye's assassination and has claimed 100,000 lives and left more than one million refugees, according to aid agencies.
        In 1972, during a period of bloody repression of the Hutus, Mr. Ntaryamira left Burundi for Rwanda, an exile that would last 11 years.
        During the violence, which followed an unsuccessful attempt to overthrow Prime Minister Michel Micombero, 100,000 to 200,000 Hutus were killed, another 200,000 fled to Rwanda, Zaire and Tanzania, and all Hutu elements were purged from the military.
        When Mr. Ntaryamira returned in 1983, he took a post with the Foreign Ministry and became a founder of the Front for Democracy, the multi-ethnic party led by Mr. Ndadaye.
        When Mr. Ndadaye was elected President last June, he appointed Mr. Ntaryamira, whose professional background was in agricultural engineering, as his agriculture minister, an important position in a country whose primary source of revenue is coffee exports.
        In January, more than two months after Mr. Ndadaye was killed, the National Assembly elected Mr. Ntaryamira to lead the country of 5.5 million people.
        Unable to gain control of the Tutsi-led military, Mr. Ntaryamira could not put an end to the violence. Fighting around the capital, Bujumbura, escalated a month ago when 200 Hutus were massacred, reportedly by soldiers. The army largely disregarded Mr. Ntaryamira's request that it withdraw from positions in the predominantly Hutu suburbs around the capital.
      