
        Lois G. Forer, an author, a retired Philadelphia judge and a lifelong advocate for the young, the elderly and the poor, died on Monday at Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. A Philadelphia resident, she was 80.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, her family said.
        Judge Forer, an authority on criminal justice, spent 32 years practicing law and 16 years on the bench. Her books on the law received critical acclaim nationally.
        She also headed a poverty law office for children, sat on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union and represented poor people in constitutional cases. As a private lawyer, she worked for wealthy clients and corporations, and as a judge she tried both criminal and civil cases. Benchmark Cases
        From 1955 to 1966, she served Pennsylvania as Deputy Attorney General and played a key role in two benchmark cases. One of them ended the whites-only policy that the founder of Girard College had written into his will. The other opened the celebrated art collection of the tax-exempt Barnes Foundation to the public.
        She became a judge of the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia in 1971 and retired as a senior judge in 1987.
        Lois Goldstein Forer was born in Chicago and graduated from Northwestern University in 1935. She worked briefly as a reporter and then as a union organizer. Dissatisfied, she returned to Northwestern for a law degree and spent several years in public service in Washington before moving to Philadelphia as a law clerk in Federal Court.
        After her stint as Deputy Attorney General in 1966, she organized the Office for Juveniles at Community Legal Services and headed it for nearly two years.
        Judge Forer received national attention with her first book, "No One Will Lissen: How Our Legal System Brutalizes the Youthful Poor" (1970). In it, she argued that the humane ideal to treat juveniles differently had been mangled in practice. For the most part, she wrote, juveniles falling into the system are poor, nonwhite and defenseless.
        Her "Criminals and Victims: A Trial Judge Reflects on Crime and Punishment" (1980) tried to make sense of seeking to mete out justice in an environment of abstract theories of the way things are supposed to be. A judge, she asserted, finds little in the way of either practical guidance or spiritual comfort from abstractions.) Critical Views on Justice
        "Money and Justice: Who Owns the Courts?" (1984) describes a system that costs too much and takes too long and often results in "substantial injustice." "A Chilling Effect: The Mounting Threat of Libel and Invasion of Privacy Actions to the First Amendment" (1987) argued for definitions of what is libelous and what is newsworthy. Federal legislation to that end would help rid the First Amendment of the ballast a litigious society has heaped on it, she contended.
        Since her fourth-stage lymphoma was diagnosed eight months ago, Judge Forer finished two more books. One, "What Every Woman Should Know Before (and After) She Gets Involved With Men and Money," is scheduled for publication by MacMillan later this year.
        Her highly topical last book, "The Rage to Punish: The Unintended Consequences of Mandatory Sentencing," is on W. W. Norton's list for next month.
        Judge Forer is survived by her husband, Morris L. Forer; two sons, Stuart, of Warwick, R.I., and John, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Hope Forer Ross of Manhattan; a sister, Marion Schott of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and two grandsons.
        Correction:  May 14, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Lois G. Forer, author and retired Philadelphia judge, referred incorrectly to the publication of her book "What Every Woman Needs to Know Before (and After) She Gets Involved With Men and Money." The publication, by Macmillan, is not due later this year; it occurred in February.
      