
        Erich Honecker, the stolid Marxist who ruled East Germany for 18 years until a people's uprising swept him aside in October 1989, died yesterday in Chile. He was 81.
        His doctor said the cause of death was liver cancer.
        It took the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe and the absorption in 1990 of his country by the larger, immensely richer West Germany to lay bare the extent to which the Honecker Government had mismanaged the economy and the environment. To the dismay of western Germans and the federal Government in Bonn, eastern Germany's infrastructure, from telephones to railroads, needed to be rebuilt, and vast sources of contamination had to be cleaned up -- all at enormous expense.
        Like other members of East Germany's upper echelon, Mr. Honecker faced charges in the united Berlin. He spent time under house arrest and in prison, but his trial was halted by a higher court, which ruled that prosecutors had violated the civil rights of a very sick man. He was freed in January 1993 and allowed to fly to Chile to join his wife and daughter.
        Mr. Honecker's orthodoxy as a Communist leader did not keep him from risking the Kremlin's displeasure with his own brand of "Westpolitik" toward Bonn, tapping its wealth to strengthen his country's faltering economy and living standards. After coming to power in 1971, he maintained East Germany as the industrial dynamo of the Soviet bloc, and he received international recognition and won a coveted prize when Bonn and Paris received him as a head of state with full honors.
        Mr. Honecker successfully steered East Germany away from Stalinism toward the high-technology pragmatism of a new managerial elite. But his failing health, and his obstinacy in the era of glasnost and perestroika proclaimed by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, dramatically eroded his influence in his last months in power.  Reports of Failing Health
        After Mr. Honecker's forced resignation, he was scheduled to face trial for treason, but action was delayed by his failing health, and in May 1990 the lame-duck East German authorities, citing his fragile condition, decided not to detain or prosecute him.
        In April 1990 the former leader was granted refuge at a Soviet military hospital in Beelitz, 20 miles southwest of Berlin, where he and his wife, Margot, lived in isolation and disgrace while his health deteriorated.
        The German authorities issued a warrant for Mr. Honecker's arrest in late 1990 after discovering documents showing that he had ordered guards at the Berlin wall to shoot anyone seeking to flee to the West. Prosecutors said they wanted to try him on charges of manslaughter and of stealing millions in state funds, but Soviet officers at the military hospital said they were not authorized to turn him over.
        He was secretly flown to the Soviet Union in March 1991 on orders of Mr. Gorbachev, and he reportedly underwent bowel surgery in a Moscow military hospital a month later.
        When the Soviet Union collapsed, President Boris N. Yeltsin threatened to deport Mr. Honecker to Germany. The former East German leader fled to the Chilean Embassy in Moscow.
        For seven months, he was given sanctuary by Ambassador Clodomiro Almeyda, who himself had found refuge in East Germany during the Pinochet years in his country. Mr. Honecker was returned to Berlin in July, 1992. East German Exodus in '89
        Mr. Honecker's political nose dive had begun in the fall of 1989, when a sudden, almost panicky flight westward of working-age people contradicted the East German image of a worker's paradise. Tens of thousands fled to the West through sudden openings in Budapest and Prague, their exodus threatening the East German economy. Soldiers had to do the jobs of factory workers and hospital aides.
        But his political fate was finally sealed by the unrelenting marches of hundreds of thousands of those who wanted to stay and peaceably but loudly called for change.
        In October 1989, at a rally marking the 40th anniversary of East Germany, Mr. Honecker still insisted on the rightness of his course, defying the not-so-subtle intimations of the visiting Mr. Gorbachev. A few days later, he met with leaders of hitherto mute satellite parties -- tolerated largely as stage props but now wanting to be heard -- and allowed that there was room for some change in economic and social policies.
        It was too late. Ceaseless demonstrations for basic change had gone beyond the point where a show of force might have contained them. The Soviet Union had made clear that its troops would remain in East German barracks. And the leadership in East Berlin knew that East German soldiers and tank drivers were unlikely to fire on their own countrymen.
        On Oct. 18, 1989, Mr. Honecker was forced to resign. Calls for his arrest rose with the discovery of hunting lodges and other privileges reserved for the supposedly Spartan leadership. Mr. Honecker and others in his old guard were expelled the day his protege and hapless successor, Egon Krenz, also had to quit.
        Freed from house arrest, he was diagnosed to have kidney cancer early in January 1990 and entered a hospital for unspecified treatment. Released at the end of the month, he was taken to jail but was freed when a court deemed him too sick for prison. He was by then a wan and dejected old man, the 14th member of his old Politburo to be detained in a continuing investigation.  An Agreement With the West
        Mr. Honecker took charge in 1971 as First Secretary of the Socialist Unity Party, the East German ruling party, when its top echelon finally decided to ease out Walter Ulbricht, a Stalinist.
        Mr. Honecker, Ulbricht's protege, had the backing of younger party stalwarts and seemed a logical heir. His credentials of unswerving orthodoxy were impeccable. A lifelong Communist, he had long suffered behind bars for his faith.
        Yet Mr. Honecker charted a new course for the country before the year was out. He began to lace tirades about West Germany's "reactionary, revanchist character" with nuances unheard before. And in December 1972, barely 19 months after Mr. Honecker came to power, the two Germanys signed what they called the Basic Agreement.
        It pledged both countries to good-neighborly relations in the spirit of the United Nations Charter. Further agreement in March 1974 brought an exchange of diplomatic missions that, in turn, opened the way for Bonn's allies to recognize East German sovereignty.
        With the sudden thaw, both countries joined the United Nations in September 1973; under Mr. Honecker, East Germany achieved the full standing that had eluded Mr. Ulbricht.  A More Relaxed Tone
        Domestically, Mr. Honecker set a somewhat more relaxed political tone. There was no pretense at pluralism, but for the first time voters heard about vital concerns in election campaigns.
        Mr. Honecker faulted Mr. Ulbricht for "distortions" in East German industry that would take "years to overcome." To that end, he shook up the central planning staff and embarked on a period of adjustments that kept the East German economy the soundest in the Soviet orbit.
        The productivity and East Germans' relatively high living standard resulted largely from Mr. Honecker's determination to cultivate ties with Bonn even at times when those between Washington and Moscow became strained. Billions of West German marks flowed eastward in credits and more billions for the upkeep of West Berlin's transit links to West Germany. Bonn also paid millions in hard currency to free dissidents, a trade in souls for which East Berlin was roundly condemned.  Leverage in Moscow
        The influx of money stabilized Mr. Honecker's Government while much of the Soviet bloc was in ferment. It paid for Western goods and technology, shoring up a disciplined and relatively well-fed consumer society.
        But there were limits to his independence. Mr. Honecker badly misread the Kremlin's thinking by announcing a visit to West Germany in 1984. At that time, Moscow was embroiled in bitter disputes with Washington and Bonn over American medium-range nuclear missiles and cruise missiles in Europe.
        Under pressure from the Kremlin, Mr. Honecker called off the trip on short notice. The situation eased considerably with the ascent of Mr. Gorbachev in 1985 and the American-Soviet agreement on intermediate-range nuclear forces.
        But Mr. Honecker took a skeptical, even contemptuous attitude toward Mr. Gorbachev's policies of openness and economic restructuring. The East Germans contended that their economy was doing well without taking a chance on a more market-oriented approach. As for glasnost, Mr. Honecker's view was that East Germany had all the openness it could afford.
        In fact, the East German population probably was the best informed of any Communist country. After early attempts at control, the Government resigned itself to the fact that most homes could and would tune to West German and West Berlin television.
        As a quid pro quo, East Berlin paid for credits from Bonn by loosening restrictions on travel, among other human-rights considerations. East Germans had been allowed to travel and move to the West in steeply increasing numbers even before 1989. Born in the Saarland
        Erich Honecker was born on Aug. 25, 1912, in Wiebelskirchen, in the western state of Saarland, the son of a politically militant coal miner. He trained as a roofer, but spent most of his life in the service of the Communist Party.
        At 10, he joined the party's youth organization, and at 17 the party itself. He underwent political training in Moscow in 1930, and in 1931 was a functionary of the youth branch. Imprisoned by the Nazis in 1935 as a member of the underground resistance, he remained in solitary confinement almost the entire time until his liberation by the Russians in 1945.
        He made contact with the Bolshevik Ulbricht group as soon as it reached Berlin and organized the Free German Youth, which was to provide the party with obedient cadre. Its members drove the democrats from the joint Berlin city administration in 1948 and helped Soviet troops squelch the East German workers' revolt in 1953.
        From 1946 to 1955 he was chairman of the youth organization. He also was a member of the putative legislature and in 1956 returned to Moscow for advanced political instruction.
        Within the party, he rose through the Central Committee and the Politburo and was given special responsibility for security questions. His most notable task came in 1961, when he was put in charge of building the Berlin wall.
        After reaching the top of the party hierarchy in 1971, he also took over as head of the National Defense Council, overseeing the armed forces, and in 1976 became chairman of the Council of State as well, formally making him the country's chief of state.
        Shortly after the war, Mr. Honecker married Edith Baumann, an old-line Communist. Divorced in 1953, he soon wed Margot Feist, who studied at the Moscow Communist Party school with him and pursued a political career of her own, becoming Minister of Education in 1963.
        He is survived by his wife; their daughter, Sonja Yaniez, who lives in Chile; a daughter by his previous marriage, Erika Wildau; a sister, Gertrud, of Wiebelskirchen, and two grandchildren.
      