
        Meyer Parodneck, who promoted self-help programs for New York's poor ranging from a milk cooperative to community housing, died on Friday at his winter home in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Parodneck, who lived in Brooklyn, was 89.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Parodneck was the founder and president of the Parodneck Foundation for Self-Help Housing and Community Development, and president of the board of the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board.
        Born in Poland, Mr. Parodneck came to Manhattan at the age of 10 and grew up in poverty on the Lower East Side. He graduated from New York Law School in 1924 and practiced as a trial lawyer and corporate counsel.
        During the Depression he was drawn to social issues. Appalled by the eviction of homeowners unable to meet their mortgage payments, Mr. Parodneck held rallies at courthouses to prevent evictions, and lobbied Congress for mortgage payment relief legislation.  Helped Form Cooperative
        Heeding warnings from social workers and consumer groups that milk was not getting to poor children in New York City and hearing pleas from upstate farmers that they were not earning enough to survive, he helped form the Consumer-Farmer Milk Cooperative in 1938.
        It was the first consumer-farmer cooperative of its kind in the nation. In the beginning, the cooperative sold 10,000 quarts of milk a day at prices as low as 7 cents a bottle, slightly below the going price. It eventually grew into a $6 million-a-year operation with milk processing plants in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
        Over the years the cooperative and Mr. Parodneck waged a series of battles with commercial dairies, trucking groups and labor unions to hold down the price of milk. Housing Projects
        By the 1970's, however, the leaders of the cooperative found that while their organization was financially successful, it had departed from its original purpose, since milk was easily available. To that end, with the guidance of Mr. Parodneck the cooperative sold its milk business and put the proceeds into housing projects of the new Consumer-Farmer Foundation.
        Using a network of settlement houses and community groups, which included its former milk customers, the foundation offered low-interest and no-interest loans to tenants on the Lower East Side and Clinton in Manhattan, and the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn.
        The loans helped tenants rehabilitate their own buildings and abandoned structures, in what came to be known as urban homesteading.
        Last year the Consumer-Farmer Foundation changed its name to the Parodneck Foundation for Self-Help Housing and Community Development.
        Mr. Parodneck is survived by his wife, Pauline, of Brooklyn, and a daughter, Carol Stern of Gaithersburg, Md.
      