
        George Gregory Jr., the nation's first black All America basketball player, who was later a New York City civil service commissioner and a civic leader in Harlem, died on May 11 at his Manhattan apartment. He was 88.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Helen Gregory.
        Mr. Gregory was the captain and star center of the Columbia University basketball team during its 1930-31 season, when the school won its first championship of what was then known as the Eastern Intercollegiate League, the forerunner of the Ivy League.
        During his senior year, college basketball made its debut in Madison Square Garden, and the Columbia team compiled a record of 21 wins and two losses. He was selected an All America by several national sports groups of that era.
        A scholarship student in college, Mr. Gregory, who was 6 feet 4 inches tall, also supported himself by working as a red cap at Pennsylvania Station, which he referred to at that time as "The Leather Factory."
        While still an undergraduate, he became the boys' director for the Harlem Center of the Children's Aid Society. That pointed him toward a career devoted to fighting juvenile delinquency and promoting civil rights. A $150 Season
        After graduating from Columbia, he earned a law degree at night from St. John's University while playing for several semi-professional basketball teams. In his best season he made a total of $150.
        Starting in 1931 and continuing for the next 22 years, Mr. Gregory directed settlement houses and youth clubs like the Harlem Youth Center and the Forest Neighborhood House in the Bronx. He was a founding member of the New York City Youth Board in 1947.
        He was a commissioner on the Municipal Civil Service Commission from 1954 to 1968, and a well-known figure in local Democratic politics. He championed urban redevelopment in Harlem and increased job opportunities for blacks, and was instrumental in starting public jazz concerts and art exhibitions there. Planning Board Chairman
        From 1950 to 1965, during a period when $400 million in public works projects were undertaken in Harlem, Mr. Gregory was chairman of the Community Planning Board 10 in the office of the Manhattan Borough President.
        From 1968 to 1970 Mr. Gregory was an assistant administrator of what now is named the Department of Environmental Protection. He retired in 1970.
        He is survived by his wife, of Manhattan; a daughter, Ginette Gregory Wylie of San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
      