
        George W. Ball, who as Under Secretary of State in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations argued forcefully but unsuccessfully against United States involvement in the Vietnam War, died Thursday night in New York Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause of death was not immediately determined, but his son, Douglas, said that Mr. Ball had entered the hospital on Wednesday and that his doctors had made a diagnosis of terminal abdominal cancer.
        Mr. Ball's opposition to the Vietnam War was based on his belief that Europe, not Southeast Asia, was the central political arena and that the key to East-West rapprochement and world peace lay in a strong, unified Western Europe.
        Mr. Ball, who also served as United States delegate to the United Nations in 1968, retired in 1982 as senior managing director of the New York investment banking firm of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb. Career Began in New Deal
        In a career that began in the New Deal and spanned half a century, Mr. Ball was a lawyer, economist, author, investment banker, high Government official, diplomatic troubleshooter and adviser to Presidents. He never ran for elective office and rose no higher than Under Secretary, the No. 2 post in the State Department, which he held from 1961 to 1966. But he was an influential and often dissenting voice in the making of American foreign policy in the 1960's.
        Mr. Ball was a leading exponent of European economic and political unity and of aid to underdeveloped nations; a mediator of crises in Cyprus, Pakistan, the Congo and elsewhere and a member of President Kennedy's inner circle in the 1962 Cuban missile crisis.
        But he was perhaps best known as an early and consistent opponent of American involvement in Vietnam: a devil's advocate who challenged the basic assumptions about the war, yet never lost his influence within the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations.
        As early as 1961, when most Americans had no inkling of where Vietnam was, let alone what was going on there, Mr. Ball was urging President Kennedy not to send American servicemen, warning that hundreds of thousands of troops might ultimately have to go. The Vietnamese Detour
        Later, when the Johnson Administration built up American involvement in the war, he argued against "the Vietnamese detour with its deep ruts and treacherous quicksands." Later on, he did not favor unilateral American withdrawal, but sought reduced involvement and a political settlement with the Communists.
        "By a series of small steps, taken in good faith over a period of years," he said as the conflict swelled, "we have mired ourselves in a frustrating war that turns our otherwise sensible countrymen into placard-carrying hysterics and impedes our coming to grips with fundamental problems in our cities, our society and the world."
        His opposition was not founded on pacifism, morality or other principles espoused by antiwar demonstrators.  Indeed, he found it "stupid and unattractive" that antiwar protesters engaged "in self-flagellation, declaring in sanctimonious tones that American policy is thoroughly in the wrong and that we as a nation are as brutal and viciously ambitious as the other side."
        His dissenting views stemmed rather from his belief that Southeast Asia was peripheral to American interests, diverting attention from the main arena, which he said lay in Europe. Focus on Europe
        This theme -- that a united Western Europe was the key to American foreign policy because it would strengthen the Atlantic alliance and provide a cushion between the United States and the Soviet Union -- was, in fact, the touchstone of Mr. Ball's vision of global politics.
        In this vision, the United States, a unified Europe and the Soviet Union would come finally to an East-West rapprochement, and these stronger nations of the northern half of the world, working together, would help the poorer peoples of the Southern Hemisphere, ultimately bringing peace and plenty to the planet.
        With Europe and its problems as his immediate focus, Mr. Ball thus concluded that the whole Asian mainland, not merely Vietnam, was peripheral to American interests and that fighting there constituted an enormous waste of human and national resources.
        Communist China, he contended, was overrated as a menace, and its existence should be accepted forthrightly. He favored trade with China, United Nations membership for Beijing and abandonment of the "myth" that Chinese Nationalists on Taiwan represented China. Views Did Not Prevail
        Mr. Ball's views, for the most part, did not prevail while he was in office, though by the end of the Johnson years many top policy makers believed, as he had, that the Vietnam War could not be won. For most of his tenure, however, Mr. Ball was regarded in the Government as a kind of loyal oppositon.
        "I've become," as he once said, "a champion of lost causes."
        Detractors contended he was being used by Secretary of State Dean Rusk and President Johnson as a sophisticated yes man who could be relied upon to raise cogent objections and then be overruled, so critics could not say dissenting views were unheard in policy-making circles. But Mr. Ball's admirers called him a team player in the best sense and said his views were valued and had a moderating influence.
        When he resigned as Under Secretary in 1966 to return to private life, Mr. Ball left on friendly terms and silenced his criticism of the war during the remaining Johnson years. It was not until after President Nixon took office that he attacked America's Vietnam policy publicly again.
        He was called back several times in the Johnson Administration, serving on a Presidential advisory group that urged an end to a further buildup of the Vietnam War and providing counsel when North Korea captured an American intelligence ship, the Pueblo, in January 1968. Author and Counsel
        In May 1968, President Johnson named Mr. Ball as the United States delegate to the United Nations after Arthur J. Goldberg, another opponent of the Vietnam War, resigned, apparently in frustration over his diminishing influence.
        Mr. Ball returned to work as an investment banker when President Nixon entered the White House in 1969, but was called back by President Carter for counsel on crises in Iran and the Persian Gulf and on the Panama Canal Treaties. He also continued to write articles and books, occasionally stirring controversy with his views on Israel, the Middle East and other subjects.
        Mr. Ball was the author of five books, "The Discipline of Power: Essentials of a Modern World Structure," published in 1968; "Diplomacy for a Crowded World," in 1976; "The Past Has Another Pattern," a memoir, in 1982; "Error and Betrayal in Lebanon," in 1983, and "The Passionate Attachment," a history of American-Israeli relations, written with his son, Douglas, in 1992. At his death, he was working on a book about America at the end of the 20th Century.
        Tall, burly, with white wavy hair, a cleft chin and gray eyes behind dark- rimmed spectacles, Mr. Ball was a forceful speaker whose style, in writing too, struck an academic tone with literary flourishes. His sentences often began ponderously but wound up with stingers in the tail. In a memo to President Kennedy, for example, he wrote: "Whenever we extend the hand of friendship to President de Gaulle, he puts into it a dead fish."  Native of Iowa
        George Wildman Ball was born on Dec. 21, 1909, in Des Moines, the third son of Amos and Edna Wildman Ball. His mother was a teacher and his father was a Scottish immigrant who became a vice president of Standard Oil of Indiana.
        The family moved to Evanston, Ill., when George was 11, and he later enrolled at Northwestern University. He majored in English, founded a literary magazine, graduated in 1930 and earned his law degree from Northwestern in 1933.
        Eager to become a part of the New Deal, he went to Washington and worked in the Farm Credit Bureau and in the Treasury Department. But his enthusiasm soon paled and he returned to Chicago in 1935 to join a tax law firm, one of whose partners was Adlai E. Stevenson. The two became close friends, and Mr. Stevenson, who went to Washington in 1941, helped place Mr. Ball in 1942 as a lawyer with the Lend-Lease Administration.
        In London in 1944-45, Mr. Ball was director of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, appraising the effects of the air war against Germany. It was in this capacity that he met and became close to Jean Monnet, who was to become known after the war as the architect of the European unification movement.
        Captivated by Mr. Monnet's vision of Europe as a unified political-economic entity that could be a bulwark of Western strength, Mr. Ball after the war supported the unification cause, in effect becoming its Washington representative. Lobbied for Common Market
        He became a founding partner of the law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Ball, which represented the Common Market and the European Coal and Steel Community, and he pushed the first abortive efforts of British entry into the Common Market.
        It was a short step into the political arena after Mr. Stevenson, then Governor of Illinois, joined the race for President in 1952. Then, and again in 1956, Mr. Ball was chief of volunteers in the Stevenson Presidential campaigns. In 1960, he backed John F. Kennedy.
        When the Kennedy Administration took office, Mr. Ball was named Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. But less than a year later, when Chester Bowles resigned in November 1961, Mr. Ball was named Under Secretary of State.
        Mr. Ball became an Administration trouble-shooter, shuttling between Athens, Ankara and Nicosia to mediate crises over Cyprus, and dashing off to Pakistan, the Congo, the Dominican Republic and other trouble spots to ease tensions or halt fighting. He was a prodigious toiler and traveler, often working six days a week and 70 hours at a stretch, and was usually at his best under pressure. In Kennedy's Inner Circle
        He was one of a small circle of advisers to President Kennedy in the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, when the discovery that Soviet missiles were being transported and installed in Cuba raised the specter of nuclear war with the Soviet Union. Mr. Ball urged a naval blockade of Cuba coupled with a demand that the Soviet missiles be withdrawn, the course that was successfully followed.
        After Mr. Kennedy's assassination in November 1963, Mr. Ball was one of the leaders who went to the White House to work out a transition to the new Administration. Resigning as Under Secretary in 1966, he joined Lehman Brothers and, except for his service at the United Nations and occasional duty as a Presidential adviser, remained with the firm for the rest of his career.
        In the Carter Administration, Mr. Ball helped draft long-range American policy in the Persian Gulf. As an adviser to the National Security Council on Iran, he was critical of supporting Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi, and favored formation of a broad coalition government in Teheran. He also helped mount a bipartisan effort for Senate ratification of the Panama Canal Treaties.
        Mr. Ball's wife, Ruth Murdoch Ball, whom he married in 1932, died last August. He is survived by two sons, John Colin Ball, of West Concord, Mass., and Douglas Bleakly Ball, of Rockville Centre, L.I., and two grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York on June 21.
      