
        E. J. Kahn Jr., who used the globe and its peoples and landscapes as canvases for his voluminous writings as a staff writer for The New Yorker magazine since 1937, died yesterday afternoon in Holyoke Hospital, Holyoke, Mass. Mr. Kahn, who lived in Manhattan and Truro, Mass., was 77.
        The death was caused by injuries suffered on Friday in an auto accident between a car in which Mr. Kahn was riding and a truck, said his son Joseph P. Kahn.
        Ely Jacques Kahn Jr. had reported for more than a generation from the nooks and crannies of the world, bringing his talents -- an eye for the bizarre scene and an ear for the revealing quote -- to an outpouring of magazine articles and books while using the offices of The New Yorker as a base for his wanderings.
        Mr. Kahn seemed almost obsessional about travel, going to the rough edges of six continents seeking out a place that might have a good story just waiting there for him to scoop up to feed to his appreciative readers. From Harvard to Army
        His service to The New Yorker started in 1937 while Mr. Kahn was still a senior at Harvard. He later was to write a book about his alma mater, "Harvard: Through Change and Through Storm" (Norton, 1969).
        Mr. Kahn served in the Army from 1941 to 1945 and filed accounts to the New Yorker of his personal experiences as a chief warrant officer in the South Pacific during World War II. He later was a war correspondent for the magazine during the Korean War.
        Those experiences resulted in the book "The Peculiar War: Impressions of a Reporter in Korea" (Random House, 1952). And he also took a longer look at the result of war in his book "The Stragglers," (Random House, 1962), which reported the eerie and often engrossing stories of Japanese soldiers who held out in the jungles for years after the war ended.
        In later years he was to report and write travel articles and social profiles from many places in Asia and South Africa. Wrote of 48 States
        His book, "The Separated People: A Look at Contemporary South Africa," published by W. W. Norton in 1968, was the result of three months devoted to visiting the country and interviewing its people, black and white.
        He also turned his talents to many places in the United States and was to point out with pride that he had written pieces that involved 48 states.
        Yet the reporting and writing that probably created the most attention involved profiles of many public personalities: David Rockefeller, John Hay Whitney, Joe Pepitone, Herbert Bayard Swope, the King of Morocco and Frank Sinatra, among them.
        He also turned his eye to corporate America, and "The Big Drink: The Story of Coca-Cola" was published by Random House in 1960. Another, "The Problem Solvers: A History of Arthur D. Little Inc." was published by Little, Brown & Company in 1986.  Into Political Intrigue
        Switching from corporate affairs to political intrigue, his book "The China Hands: America's Foreign Service Officers and What Befell Them" (Viking, 1975) dealt with the engrossing cast of characters caught up in this strange period of the historical relationship between the United States and China.
        Mr. Kahn even examined his fellow countrymen and in his "The American People: The Findings of the 1970 Census" (Weybright & Talley, 1974) he even poked his nose into the oddities and absurdities contained in the masses of numbers the Federal Government had amassed.
        He was the author of 27 books, many of them collections of articles that appeared in the New York and many other publications. "Pieces from the New Yorker 1937-1978" (Putnam, 1980) was an example.
        And he also wrote about The New Yorker. First he wrote, "About the New Yorker and Me: A Sentimental Journal" (Putnam, 1979), and later "Year of Change: More About the New Yorker and Me" (Viking, 1988.) The second book was a somewhat nostalgic look at a magazine in transition which he seemed to perceive as having had better times in its past.
        Born in Manhattan to Ely Kahn, an architect, and Elsie Plaut Kahn, a writer, he went to Horace Mann High School, then Harvard, which he viewed with affection and which he later served as president of the Associated Harvard Alumni. He returned to Manhattan after his military service in World War II.
        His first marriage to Virginia C. Rice ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Eleanor Munro Frankfurter, the writer and art critic, of Manhattan; three sons, Joseph P. of Sudbury, Mass., E. J. 3d of Cohasset, Mass., and Hamilton of Wellfleet, Mass.; a stepson, David Frankfurter of Princeton, N.J., and two sisters, Joan Kahn and Olivia Kahn, both of Manhattan. Books Written By E. J. Kahn Jr.
        The Army Life 1942
        The Peculiar War 1952
        A Reporter Here and There 1961
        The World of Swope 1964
        A Reporter In Micronesia 1966
        The Separated People: A Look at Contemporary South Africa 1968
        Harvard: Through Change and Through Storm 1969
        The American People: The Findings of the 1970 Census 1975
        The China Hands: America's Foreign Service Officers and What Befell Them 1975
        About the New Yorker and Me 1979
        Far Flung and FLoot Loose 1980
        Jock: The Life and Times of John Hay Whitney 1981
        The Staffs of Life 1985
        The Problem Solvers 1986
        Supermarkets of the World 1991
      