
        Sir Alfred Beit, a wealthy but unlucky British baronet whose art collection was twice sacked by criminals, died on Thursday in Dublin, the British newspaper The Independent reported. He was 91 and lived southwest of Dublin, in County Wicklow.
        Sir Alfred's collection was chiefly amassed by his father, Sir Otto Beit, who was a mining magnate in South Africa.
        Two extraordinary paintings, a Vermeer and a Goya, and two lesser works, all from Sir Alfred's collection, were recovered in September 1993 by the police in Belgium, seven years after they were taken by thieves. The Vermeer, "Lady Writing a Letter With Her Maid," and the Goya, "Portrait of Dona Antonia Zarate," were among the most valuable artworks stolen in recent years.
        The four oils were found by the police when they arrested three Irishmen and a Yugoslav who were driving near Antwerp. They were among 18 paintings that were stolen in 1986 from Sir Alfred's collection in Russborough House, his Palladian mansion in County Wicklow, in what was seen as one of the most important art thefts in 40 years. Most of the works have been recovered, at sites ranging from County Wicklow to Ankara, Turkey.
        It is said that for a while after that theft, Sir Alfred could not bear to enter the part of his house where his collection was kept. Theft Linked to I.R.A.
        The other crime was in 1979, when a gang linked to the outlawed Irish Republican Army made off with 19 masterworks. But those paintings were recovered, and arrests were made in that case eight days later.
        In the 1980's, Sir Alfred and his wife gave 17 paintings from the collection to the National Gallery of Ireland. He was also a patron of the arts and a philanthropist in various other ways and was a member of the Board of Governors and Guardians of the National Gallery.
        Alfred Lane Beit was born in London, studied at Eton and at Oxford University, succeeded to the baronetcy in 1930, was a Conservative Member of Parliament from 1931 to 1945 and served concurrently in the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Clementine Mitford, whom he married in 1939.
      