
        Dr. James Augustine Shannon, a medical investigator and educator who was director of the National Institutes of Health from 1955 to 1968, died on Friday at the Church Home in Baltimore. He was 89.
        The cause was a ruptured aortic aneurysm, according to the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
        Dr. Shannon's major contributions were in pharmacology, chemotherapy and kidney disorders. He served on many advisory panels, including the President's Science Advisory Commission.
        He first came to the National Institutes of Health in 1949 as associate director in charge of research at the newly created National Heart Institute, where he recruited the initial staff. Two of his charter recruits later won Nobel Prizes, and two others became directors of the institutes. Expanded Medical Research
        Dr. Shannon assumed responsibility for in-house research at all the institutes in 1952. Later, as director, he oversaw a rapid expansion of the nation's biomedical research by using his influence in the executive branch and Congress to get money for the research.
        During his 13-year tenure, the institutes' budget increased about 20 percent a year, to nearly $1.4 billion. And the N.I.H. became the world's largest sponsor of biological and medical research.
        After retiring from the institutes in 1968, Dr. Shannon was an adviser to the president of the National Academy of Sciences. In 1970 he became a professor of biomedical sciences at Rockefeller University in New York, and was special assistant to its president. He was an adjunct professor from 1975 to 1980, when he reached emeritus status.
        He was born in Queens and graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. He received his medical degree from New York University in 1929, and a Ph.D. in physiology from the university in 1935. He was on the N.Y.U. faculty from 1932 to 1946. Specialized in Nephrology
        Dr. Shannon made his mark early with discoveries in kidney physiology and clinical nephrology, the branch of medical science that deals with the kidney. His leadership in the development of antimalaria drugs, which were urgently needed by members of the armed forces serving in the South Pacific in World War II, earned him the Presidential Medal of Merit in 1948.
        From 1946 to 1949, Dr. Shannon was director of the Squibb Institute for Medical Research. He helped reorganize the institute and persuade the parent company, E. R. Squibb & Sons , to produce and market the antibiotic streptomycin for the treament of bacterial diseases.
        He was married for 44 years to Dr. Alice M. Waterhouse, a former classmate in medical school who died in 1977. He is survived by a daughter, Dr. Alice Shannon-Stolzberg of Baltimore; a son, J. Anthony, of Rockville, Md., 11 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      