
        Jack Barbash, a labor economist and educator who was an architect of the 1955 merger of a divided trade union movement into the A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Saturday at a hospital in Madison, Wis. A resident of Madison since 1957, he was 83.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Barbash was the John P. Bascom Professor emeritus of Economics and Industrial Relations at the University of Wisconsin, where he taught for 24 years before retiring in 1981. A prolific author, he wrote, edited or contributed to dozens of books chronicling the labor movement and the history of economic thought.
        After working for the Federal Government in New York and Washington, he went to work for the Congress of Industrial Organizations in 1953. As its economist, he became closely associated with Arthur J. Goldberg, the organization's general counsel and one of the nation's foremost labor lawyers.
        Both men became important participants in the intricate merger negotiations with the American Federation of Labor that, which led to an alliance between to labor organizations that had often disagreed on economics and politics.
        Mr. Barbash left as director of research and education of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1957 and moved to Madison to take a faculty position at the university.
        Mr. Barbash's writings were translated into several languages, including German, French and Spanish. His latest book was "The Elements of Industrial Relations" (1985, University of Wisconsin Press). A work first published in 1961, "Labor's Grass Root's: A Study of the Local Union" (Greenwood Press) is still available in reprint.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Barbash graduated from New York University, where he also earned a master's degree in economics in 1937. He started his career as a research investigator for the New York State Department of Labor in 1935 and later held positions at various union and government agencies, including the Bureau of Labor Statistics in Washington. Before joining the C.I.O., he was a staff director for the Senate Labor Committee.
        Mr. Barbash is survived by his wife of 60 years, Kate Hubelbauk Barbash; three sons, Louis and Fred, both of Washington, and Mark, of Columbus, Ohio, and four grandchildren.
      