
        Etienne Hirsch, a French administrator who was a leading advocate of a United States of Europe, died on Tuesday in Paris. He was 93 and lived in nearby Sevres.
        The cause was a heart problem, his family said without releasing further details.
        After World War II Mr. Hirsch directed a program to modernize the French economy. He served later as an administrator of the European Coal and Steel Community, created in 1951 to pool the production of six Western European countries, and the European Community, founded in 1957 to forge a common market. He was an assistant to Robert Schuman and to Jean Monnet, who were among the guiding forces of postwar European cooperation.
        In 1959 Mr. Hirsch became the chairman of the European Atomic Energy Community but was removed after only 18 months in office by President de Gaulle, who felt Mr. Hirsch was putting the interests of Europe before those of France. Attacked Nationalism
        On leaving office in 1961, Mr, Hirsch attacked the nationalistic spirit that he felt had scuttled his dreams of fusion. He argued that the executive branch of the European Community should be allowed to operate in "complete independence," without accepting instructions from any government. He said he had tried to uphold that ideal, but "I must tell you in all frankness that I had difficulties in doing so."
        The steel, trade and nuclear institutions eventually merged into one entity, the European Union, which now has 12 member countries. In 1993 it eliminated its internal trade barriers, and its members seek to forge common positions on foreign policy.
        Mr. Hirsch was a chemical engineer. Immediately after the fall of France to Hitler's Germany in 1940, he and his wife and four children fled to London, where he became an officer in the Free French forces. General de Gaulle put Mr. Hirsch in charge of supplying arms to the French Resistance forces on the Continent.
        He is survived by his wife, Genevieve, two daughters, Francoise Roth and Helene Eisenmann, all of Sevres; and a son, Antoine, of Paris.
      