
        Mario Einaudi, who spent most of his life explaining Europe to Americans and America to Europeans, died on Sunday in the house in which he was born in Piedmont, Italy. He was 90. For most of the last 30 years he had divided his time between Italy and Ithaca, N.Y.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        At his death he was emeritus Goldwin Smith Professor of Government at Cornell University. At the university, he founded the Center for International Studies, which was later renamed the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies.
        Professor Einaudi was the oldest son of Luigi Einaudi, an economist who was the first President of the Italian Republic, from 1948 to 1955. Mario Einaudi created the Fondazione Einaudi in Turin, in memory of his father. His father's library formed the basis of what has grown into an important collection of texts on economic history. The foundation also provides graduate research fellowships for students from around the world.
        Educated at the University of Turin, Professor Einaudi first came to this country as a Rockefeller Foundation Fellow to study at Harvard University in 1927. He returned in 1933 as a political refugee from the Fascist Mussolini regime in Italy.
        He taught political science at Harvard University and Fordham University before joining the Cornell faculty in 1945. While there he twice served as chairman of the Department of Government and in 1965 founded the Center for International Studies.
        One of his widely known books, still in print, is "The Roosevelt Revolution" (1959), an appraisal of the legacy of the New Deal for American society. He was co-author of two other books that remain in print, "Communism in Western Europe" (1951) and "Christian Democracy in Italy and France" (1969).
        Professor Einaudi's wife of 57 years, Manon Michels Einaudi, died in 1990. He is survived by three sons, Luigi of Bethesda, Md., Roberto of Rome, and Marc of Stanford, Calif.; two brothers, Roberto of Milan and Giuglio of Turin, and nine grandchildren.
      