
        Michael H. Walsh, who struggled to complete the turnaround of Tenneco Inc., one of the nation's largest companies, as he battled a brain tumor, died yesterday. He was 51.
        Mr. Walsh resigned in February as chairman and chief executive of the conglomerate based in Houston whose products range from natural gas to Monroe shock absorbers and J. I. Case farm and construction equipment.
        Mr. Walsh's way of management epitomized the relentless quest for efficiencies and economies that has transformed countless American corporations over the last few years, although at the cost of millions of jobs. He took control of one company after another, slimming them down and shaping them up as if to remake them in his own lean, athletic image.
        But between his career and those of other corporate chiefs, there arose a poignant difference: no regimen, no amount of determination could overcome the effects of the cancer that struck him just as he was emerging as one of the nation's most prominent younger executives and as his company showed signs of responding to his treatment. Open About His Disease
        While other executives slowed by disease have tried to hide or play down their conditions, Mr. Walsh was so intent on remaining the visible leader of his company that the turns in his condition became immediately evident. His hair loss reminded those around him of the rigors of his radiation treatment and chemotherapy, and he often discussed his disease with his aides or the press.
        "Human beings manage their way through these things," he said in one magazine cover article last year on his battle. "It's about 90 percent discipline and sweat."
        One fall day in 1992, Mr. Walsh noticed his left foot dragging in the dirt as he followed a jogging trail near his Houston home. By January, 1993, tests confirmed the cancer and he made his disease public.
        Mr. Walsh continued working out with weights and a stationary bicycle even during his treatment. He claimed victory over the cancer last November, and his doctors called a Jan. 29 operation to remove dead tissue a success.
        When Mr. Walsh suddenly gave up his reign at Tenneco on Feb. 23, his doctor, Kenneth D. Wells, cited the weakening effects of his treatment. The doctor said yesterday that his cancer had in fact recurred, and attributed his death to its complications.
        Dana G. Mead, who succeeded Mr. Walsh as Tenneco chief executive, said that Mr. Walsh's leadership set an example for those around him. "Mike's legacy is our shared inspiration to fight on and never settle for second best," Mr. Mead said in a statement today.
        Mr. Walsh was a leading corporate supporter of President Clinton, working for his election and then campaigning for his economic plans.
        In a statement issued by the White House, President Clinton said: "Hillary and I were deeply saddened to hear of the death of our good friend Mike Walsh. His friendship and advice will be sorely missed. Our prayers and sympathies are with his family during this difficult time."
        Mr. Walsh, educated in the law, did not break into corporate management until he was 38. For the rest of his career, he called himself "a recovering lawyer."
        Michael Harries Walsh was born on July 8, 1942, in Binghamton, N.Y., but named Portland, Ore., where his family soon moved, as his hometown. His father, Thomas Walsh, was a manager of movie theaters.
        In Portland, Mr. Walsh became an all-state running back, gaining a football scholarship to Stanford University. Several shoulder separations forced him to give up the sport. His father died of colon cancer when Mr. Walsh was a junior. A White House Fellow
        After graduating with an economics degree in 1964, Mr. Walsh was named to the first class of White House Fellows in 1965. There, he met Joan Royter, who was an assistant dean of foreign students at American University. They married in 1967.
        From Washington, Mr. Walsh went to Yale Law School, becoming a public defender in San Diego after he graduated in 1969. He joined with John Gardner there to help found Common Cause, a citizens' lobby.
        President Jimmy Carter named him United States Attorney for the Southern District of California in 1977. Three years later, he was recruited by the Cummins Engine Company of Columbus, Ind., as a vice president in its international manufacturing operations. In four years, he was an executive vice president and a director.
        The Union Pacific Railroad Company of Omaha hired him away as its chairman and chief executive in 1986. Analysts gave him credit for cutting costs, gaining market share and improving profits there. "He had a major impact," said Drew Lewis, the chairman and chief executive of Union Pacific's parent company and a former Transportation Secretary. "He was able to pull people together and get things done."
        The Tenneco board initially approached him about running its J. I. Case division but Mr. Walsh refused. Instead, the board hired him to manage Tenneco. Thomas J. Neff of the Spencer Stuart executive search firm said his recruitment of Mr. Walsh was his proudest achievement. Demanding on Goals
        At Tenneco, Mr. Walsh confronted an unwieldy group of businesses with a blunt, immediate insistence on meeting the goals he set. Within weeks he made plans to eliminate 6,000 jobs, halve the dividend and shut down several Case plants, whose high costs and weak sales were leading reasons for the company's $732 million loss in 1991. In all, he eliminated 14,000 of the company's 89,000 jobs, or almost 16 percent.
        Huge write-offs for cutbacks and layoffs increased Tenneco's loss to $1.3 billion in 1992, but the company earned $426 million in 1993. The stock, which reached a low of $27.375 a share in December 1991, closed today on the New York Stock Exchange at $47 a share, down $1.375.
        Mr. Walsh died at the Institute for Rehabilitation and Research in Houston. Funeral arrangements are private.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Walsh is survived by two daughters, Kimberly, a student at Stanford University School of Law, and Jennifer, a student at Texas Christian University at Fort Worth; a son, Jeffrey, a student at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.; his mother, Elizabeth Walsh; two brothers, Robert and Thomas, and a sister, Nora Souther, all of Portland, Ore.
      