
        Jacques Ellul, a French Protestant theologian whose pessimistic assessment of modern technological society found a receptive American audience in the late 1960's, died on Thursday at his home in Bordeaux, France. He was 82.
        From 1946 to 1980, he was a professor of law and history at the University of Bordeaux's law school and its Institute of Political Studies.
        Although 20 of his 43 books have been translated into English, Mr. Ellul was most widely known in the United States for "The Technological Society," written in the 1950's but published here in 1964 by Alfred A. Knopf.
        The book's description of a modern society in which technical efficiency had become an end in itself found an audience in the late 1960's among Americans disillusioned by the nation's political disarray.  Book Is Criticized
        But his bleak portrait of humanity enslaved by its own technology did not go uncriticized. In 1970, noting that Mr. Ellul's books were "enjoying a campus vogue," Alvin Toffler, in his best-selling book "Future Shock," called the French writer "one of the most extreme" of "a generation of future-haters and technophobes."
        Like many American readers of "The Technological Society," Mr. Toffler devoted little attention to the religious underpinnings of Mr. Ellul's thought, except to refer to him as "a French religious mystic."
        In fact, Mr. Ellul's views were rooted in an austere Christian faith to which he had been converted during his university studies. At the same time he was drawn to Marxism. Although he later denounced Communism, he was left with a lifelong inclination to identify the struggle of rival interests and the potential for control in every social institution, from the nation state to the media.
        That combination made him a critic of the status quo. At the same time, he warned that hope in solving contemporary problems through technological, scientific or political schemes was misplaced, and that human efforts apart from God's grace would always be self-destructive.
        Political radicals who embraced his social criticism eventually discovered that he was equally critical of "the political illusion," the title of another of his books, and what he considered the totalitarian pretensions of modern bureaucracies.  Calvinist Influences
        His writings resemble a Calvinist preacher's insistence on the depravity and pridefulness of modern civilization, to which only God can be a sufficient answer. They contained the traditional themes of Reformed Christian theology: the sovereignty of God over history, human sinfulness, hope through faith rather than human works.
        He was born in Bordeaux on Jan. 6, 1912, into a poor family that was not particularly religious. His father was a freethinker and his mother was a Protestant. After receiving his law degree from the University of Paris, he married Yvette Lensvelt in 1937.
        Politically active during the 1930's and briefly a member of the Communist Party, Mr. Ellul was removed by the Vichy Government in 1940 from his post as a law professor at the University of Strasbourg. He joined the Resistance, helped Jews escape the Nazis and served as Deputy Mayor of Bordeaux from the liberation of France in 1944 through 1946. His term in office confirmed his doubts that real social change could be achieved through politics.
        From 1950 to 1970, he was a member of the National Council of the Reformed Church in France. He was a consultant to the World Council of Churches but criticized it in 1966 for what he considered theological shallowness and naive support of third-world liberation movements.
        He was convinced that Christianity involved rejecting the violence needed to maintain any state and that Christians, therefore, could never wholeheartedly participate in any political order. They should strive to introduce a spirit of reconciliation into political struggles, he wrote, but otherwise be "troublemakers, creators of uncertainty, agents of a dimension incompatible with society."
        Mr. Ellul and his wife had four children. Information on survivors was not immediately available.
      