
        Alfred O. C. Nier, a physicist at the University of Minnesota whose early work on lead and uranium isotopes helped determine the age of the earth and usher in the atomic age, died on Monday in Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis. He was 82.
        He died from injuries suffered in an automobile accident on May 2 near his home in Roseville, Minn., a suburb of St. Paul, said Dr. Edward Ney, an emeritus professor of physics and astronomy at the university.
        Dr. Nier's career was built on a high-resolution mass spectrometer that he designed and built while serving a two-year post-doctoral fellowship at Harvard University beginning in 1936. With that device, he began a study of the isotopic composition of elements in the periodic table.
        But it was his work on lead and the two main isotopes of uranium, U 235 and U 238, that contributed to the development of the atomic bomb. Dr. Nier's research also led to a determination that the earth is about five billion years old. Role in Manhattan Project
        In February 1940, at the urging of the physicists Enrico Fermi and John R. Dunning, Dr. Nier modified his spectrometer to separate samples of U 235 and U 238 in his laboratory at the University of Minneapolis. That instrument eventually led to development of the larger, more elaborate calutrons built for large-scale separation of U 235 in World War II.
        Dr. Nier also helped develop mass spectrometers and helium-leak detectors that Dr. Ney said were instrumental in the success of the Manhattan Project, the $2 billion wartime effort to design and build the first nuclear weapons.
        "There are a few people like Fermi that aren't equaled, but Dr. Nier was certainly in the next tier," said Dr. Ney, a colleague of Dr. Nier's for five decades.
        After the war Dr. Nier resumed his geophysical and geochemical research. Among other findings, he showed that argon-40 was a decay product of potassium-40, a discovery that led to the potassium-argon method of measuring geological age. For those discoveries, and his earlier work on the isotopes of uranium and lead, the American Geological Society awarded him the Arthur L. Day Medal in 1956.
        Dr. Nier helped design miniature mass spectrometers that could be launched by rockets to study the earth's atmosphere, and he led a group that determined the composition of the thermosphere, a region of the upper atmosphere in which the temperature increases continuously with altitude. Studied Martian Atmosphere
        When the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was developing experiments for the Viking Project, which landed two spacecraft on Mars in 1976, Dr. Nier headed the team that studied the composition and structure of the Martian atmosphere.
        Alfred Otto Carl Nier was born on May 28, 1911, in St. Paul, the son of German immigrants. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Minnesota before switching to physics. He received his Ph.D. in physics from the university on 1936.
        After two years at Harvard, Dr. Nier returned to the University of Minnesota, and was chairman of its physics department from 1953 to 1965. He was named Regents' Professor of Physics in 1956.
        After his retirement in the early 1980's, he continued to do research at his campus office. At the time of his death he was overseeing a NASA-financed project to determine the composition and origin of cosmic dust.
        Dr. Nier is survived by his wife, Ardis; a son, Keith, of Madison, N.J.; a daughter, Janet Marx, of Springfield, Va., and four grandchildren.
      