
        Joe Layton, the award-winning director, producer and choreographer, died on Thursday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 64.
        He died after a long illness, said his press agent, Michael Sterling.
        Mr. Layton's wide-ranging career included work in theater, film, television and ballet. He was probably best known for his work in the 1960's through the 80's on Broadway musicals including "The Sound of Music," "No Strings" and "George M!" The latter two won him Tony Awards for choreography.
        Mr. Layton brought a special warmth and humor to the Broadway musical, where he always tried to integrate dance, music and drama. For him, he said, it was natural to direct as well as choreograph a musical, as he did for the first time in 1962 in "No Strings." "I always begin with the book anyway, even when I'm only doing the dances," Mr. Layton told an interviewer at the time. "Dances are simply supposed to take the book a step further, either plotwise or on a heightened emotional level." On Broadway at 16
        Mr. Layton, originally named Joseph Lichtman, was born in New York City. As a child, he sang at Catskills resorts where his family vacationed and performed in children's shows in Brooklyn, where he grew up. He made his Broadway debut at 16, while he was still in school, as a dancer in "Oklahoma!" He went on to dance in other shows over the next few years, including "High Button Shoes," "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" and "Wonderful Town."
        Mr. Layton first did choreography and directed musicals and opera in an Army Special Services unit in the early 1950's. When he was discharged in 1954, he went to Europe and worked as a choreographer, director and dancer with the Ballet Ho de George Reich in Paris and Cannes, France. He returned to the United States in 1956 and made his television debut as a dancer in a CBS-TV production of "Cinderella."
        He choreographed and directed Off Broadway and summer stock productions at Camp Tamiment in the Poconos and briefly performed his own singing act in a New York club.
        Mr. Layton's first major assignment was choreographing a revival of "On the Town" in 1959, followed by dances for "Once Upon a Mattress" Off Broadway. His work on both productions was favorably received. Walter Terry, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, called Mr. Layton "pretty much the wonder boy of 1959" and described his choreography for "Once Upon a Mattress" as "marvelously funny, filled with vitality and richly inventive."
        That show, which launched the careers of Carol Burnett and its composer, Mary Rodgers, the daughter of Richard Rodgers, went on to Broadway. In November 1959, Mr. Layton was asked to choreograph the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "The Sound of Music."
        His choreography for "Greenwillow," "Tenderloin" and "Sail Away" was praised, although the shows had only modest runs. He then directed and choreographed the stylish, innovative Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "No Strings" in 1962.
        In 1968, after a string of failures, Mr. Layton had another Broadway hit in "George M!" He went on to direct and choreograph "Dear World," "Platinum," "Two by Two," "Woman of the Year," "Barnum" and, in 1984, "The Three Musketeers." He ventured into popular music on Broadway with "An Evening With Diana Ross" in 1976 at the Palace and "Rock 'n Roll! The First 5,000 Years," a 1982 Broadway revue, which he directed and choreographed. Mr. Layton's stage work in London included a five-hour musical version of "Gone With the Wind," which played there in 1972 after a huge success with a Japanese cast in Tokyo.
        In film, Mr. Layton staged dances for "Thoroughly Modern Millie" and "For the Boys." He directed "Richard Pryor: Live on the Sunset Strip" and was the executive producer of "Annie."
        Mr. Layton made his television debut as a choreographer in 1960 with a Mary Martin Thanksgiving special. He created four specials starring Barbra Streisand; the first, "My Name is Barbra," earned Mr. Layton his first Emmy Award. He also worked on specials starring Cher, the Carpenters, Diana Ross, Olivia Newton-John, Carol Burnett, Dolly Parton and Willie Nelson.
        Mr. Layton's created live concert shows for Julio Iglesias, Joel Grey, Raquel Welch, Diahann Carroll, Vic Damone and the Broadway debut show of Harry Connick Jr. He also staged "An American Reunion," the concert at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington for the Inauguration of President Clinton.
        He staged Lionel Richie's portion of the closing ceremonies for the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles, the 1988-89 Siegfried and Roy World Tour and the first-anniversary celebration of the inauguration of President George Bush at the Kennedy Center in Washington. Mr. Layton also staged two "Commitment to Life" benefits for the AIDS Project in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Layton's classical ballet credits include three works for the Royal Ballet of London and the 1972 "Double Exposure" for the Joffrey Ballet.
        In 1990, Mr. Layton became the creative director of the creative entertainment division of Radio City Music Hall Productions. He created concert acts Bette Midler, Ann-Margret and Travis Tritt. At his death, Mr. Layton was working on the Cy Coleman musical "The Life."
        Mr. Layton's wife, the actress Evelyn Russell, died in the early 1970's. He is survived by their son, Jeb James Layton of Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Correction:  May 11, 1994, Wednesday
        An obituary on Monday about Joe Layton, the director, producer and choreographer, misidentified the lyricist for the 1962 Broadway musical "No Strings." Richard Rodgers wrote the lyrics as well as the music. The lyricist with whom Rodgers had often collaborated, Oscar Hammerstein 2d, died in 1960.
      