
        Ayrton Senna, a Brazilian whose laser-like focus on driving race cars made him a three-time Formula One world champion, died yesterday after a crash during the San Marino Grand Prix in Imola, Italy.
        Senna, 34 years old, died of multiple skull fractures in a hospital in Bologna, Italy, hours after his race car veered off the Ferrari Autodrome at almost 200 miles an hour and struck a concrete wall almost head on. The cause of the accident was not immediately known.
        Ayrton Senna da Silva was born in Sao Paulo, Brazil, on March 21, 1960, and divided his time between homes there and in Monte Carlo, Monaco. He began his career in kart racing as a youth, eventually rising to auto racing's highest level, the international Grand Prix circuit, in 1984. He won the circuit's world championship in 1988, 1990 and 1991.
        He was considered the world's best driver at the time of his death. Possibly the Greatest
        He started 65 Formula One races on the pole position, the coveted spot at the head of the field reserved for the driver who had the fastest qualifying times for the race. His total was a record, and his 41 Grand Prix race victories was second only to the 51 victories of Alain Prost of France.
        "He might have been the greatest driver of all time," said Michael Andretti, who was Senna's Formula One teammate last year. "There was not a weakness in Ayrton Senna."
        Michael Kranefuss, the head of the Ford Motor Company's international racing activities, recalled yesterday watching Senna during a Monaco Grand Prix practice a few years ago, going against such great rivals and fellow world champions as Nelson Piquet, Niki Lauda and Prost.
        "It was like you were watching photographers," Mr. Kranefuss said of Senna's rivals, "and then you were watching a painting done by Michelangelo."
        His success, built on an uncompromising approach in which he demanded everything of himself and those who designed and built his race cars, made him one of the highest-paid athletes in the world. His annual salary the past few years was generally thought to be above $10 million, with commercial endorsement deals adding much more.
        In his native Brazil, he was a hero of the same stature as the soccer star Pele.
        "I think that just about everything can be improved," Senna said in an article in The New York Times in March 1991. "I think as the time goes by, you have to exploit your own limits and the machine's limits."
        Even when he thought he was at his limits, he said, "Perhaps if I try again, if I concentrate even more, focus on that single thing, I might be able to go further." Preferred No Publicity
        But success and wealth -- combined with the nasty politics of the Formula One circuit and the oppressive news media focus it received -- eventually made Senna more reclusive and less revealing.
        "I think he was a more relaxed person than he became after his success," said Raul Boesel, a fellow Brazilian now racing in the United States.
        Besides being the target of an unsuccessful kidnap plot in Brazil a few years ago, Senna shut himself off from the news media and other nonracing outsiders because of his intense conflicts with other drivers, most notably Prost.
        In 1989 and 1990, they took turns edging one another for the world championship -- Prost won in '89 and Senna in '90 -- and had a collision with with each other in the final race each year.
        "He was very intimidating," Mr. Kranefuss said of Senna's driving style. "On the race track, he was not always a nice guy." A Study in Concentration
        The worldwide news media attention surrounding Senna's encounters with Prost -- along with run-ins with Piquet -- made him keep to himself on race weekends so he would not lose the concentration that lifted him into a near-transcendent state when he got behind the wheel.
        "Ayrton was the most misunderstood person out there because he got such a bad rap in the media," Andretti said yesterday. "I can assure you he was a good person. He was very supportive of me last year."
        Mr. Kranefuss said, "He was very loyal to people who helped him early in his career."
        Senna was aware of his image as being difficult (he did speak to reporters more often than Prost), but was willing to accept it in order to win.
        "In our activity, unfortunately, there is a lot of ego and confrontation," he told The Times. "That is not good for making friends."
        His response to bad press was always the same: focus on driving.
        "My choice is simply to do what I believe is right according to my mind and my heart," he said. "Choosing that, you are bound to make some difficult relationships."
        Senna is survived by his parents, of Tatui, Brazil, 70 miles from Sao Paulo.
      