
        Lord Sharp of Grimsdyke, former chairman and chief executive of Cable and Wireless P.L.C., the British-based international telecommunications company, died last Monday in London. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Times of London reported.
        Born Eric Sharp, he was made a life peer in 1989. He was chairman of Cable and Wireless from 1980 until his retirement in 1990 and chief executive from 1981 to 1990.
        Cable and Wireless was founded in 1929 and languished after it was nationalized by the Labor Government after World War II. It was privatized in 1981, one of a group of enterprises privatized while Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister, from 1979 to 1990.
        Under his leadership, the concern's total revenues grew more than fifteenfold a year, and its profits increased more than tenfold. When he retired, it had operations in more than 55 countries.
        Mr. Sharp pushed for the establishment of a fiber-optic cable "highway" operated by Cable and Wireless, linking Europe to Asia via the United States. The "highway" linked major financial centers and offered business customers such features as high-definition television and video-conferencing, high-speed data transmission and faxes.
        In the early 1980's Cable and Wireless, with a group of investors, set up Mercury Communications, the first competitor to British Telecommunications, the Government-owned phone company. Mercury later became wholly owned by Cable and Wireless.
        Eric Sharp was born in London. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics and statistics at the London School of Economics, became a British Army captain in World War II, joined Britain's Ministry of Power in 1948 and remained a civil servant until 1956.
        He entered private industry in 1957 and rose high in the international operations of Monsanto, the American chemicals concern, before joining Cable and Wireless.
        Lord Sharp is survived by his wife, the former Marion Freeman, whom he married in 1950; a son and a daughter.
        Correction:  May 12, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Monday about Lord Sharp of Grimsdyke, former chairman and chief executive of Cable and Wireless P.L.C., the British-based telecommunications company, misstated the increase in the company's revenues under his leadership. The increase was about tenfold from the 1980-81 fiscal year to the 1990-91 fiscal year, not "more than fifteenfold a year."
      