
        Dr. Roy J. Plunkett, the scientist whose accidental invention of Teflon 50 years ago not only changed the way Americans cook but also helped develop a multibillion-dollar plastics industry, died on Thursday at the Wooldridge Place Nursing Home in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lois.
        In 1938 Dr. Plunkett was a 27-year-old research chemist in the E. I. du Pont du Nemours & Company's Jackson Laboratory in Deepwater, N.J., conducting an experiment on a possible new refrigerant when he discovered he had created a new product.
        Dr. Plunkett recalled later that he was looking disappointedly at a glob of white waxy material inside a laboratory cylinder, thinking the experiment a failure, when he decided to test the material for properties other than refrigeration. He found it to be resistant to heat, to be chemically inert and, better yet, to have very low surface friction so it would not stick to anything.
        Mrs. Plunkett recalled, "He recognized almost at once that the material was different and that it had potential, and Du Pont saw it, too." Revolutionized an Industry
        Teflon, the trade name for the polytetrafluoroethylene resin, was to become a houshold name in cooking pans, and three-quarters of the pots and pans sold in the United States are now coated with either Teflon or one of its cousins. Dr. Plunkett was awarded a patent in 1941 for his invention.
        The new nonstick substance also revolutionized the plastics industry by moving such synthetic materials into applications never before believed possible.
        When named to the National Inventors' Hall of Fame in 1985, Dr. Plunkett said he was pleased to be credited with an invention that "has been of great personal benefit to people -- not just indirectly, but directly to real people whom I know."
        He later went into the management at Du Pont and retired in 1975 after almost 40 years of service in Wilmington, Del., as the director of operations producing the company's Freon refrigerants.
        Dr. Plunkett graduated from Manchester College and received a doctorate in chemistry from Ohio State University in 1936 going to work for Du Pont shortly afterward.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Michael, of Charlotte, N.C., and Patrick, of Reston, Va., and two grandchildren.
      