
        John Smith, who died today at the age of 55 after suffering a heart attack, led the opposition Labor Party for the last two years, building a commanding lead in public opinion polls that he hoped would carry him into 10 Downing Street at the next election.
        A lawyer with a reputation as a shrewd political strategist, Mr. Smith took over the Labor leadership from Neil Kinnock after the party's loss to the Conservative Party of Prime Minister John Major in the last general election, in April 1992. He continued the process begun by Mr. Kinnock of moving the traditionally left-wing party toward the center.
        Mr. Smith joined the Labor Party at 16, was elected to Parliament in 1970 at age 31 and held several posts in the Labor governments under Prime Ministers Harold Wilson and James Callaghan in the 1970's.
        Long associated with Labor's more pragmatic, less ideological wing, he battled to shed the party's "loony left" image. At last year's party conference, he fought hard to reduce the power of trade unions to select party candidates, and when he narrowly won he made clear he considered it a major step in making Labor a more acceptable choice to a broader array of voters.
        As party leader, he was widely credited by colleagues with maintaining unity and giving Labor a calm and authoritative face as Mr. Major's political woes mounted over the last year and the Conservative Government's standing in the polls eroded.
        Apparently believing that his best strategy was to let the Conservatives continue to self-destruct, Mr. Smith declined to lay out any details of the policies Labor would pursue should it come to power.  Stamina in Question
        "Labor is now a party appealing to every part of Britain and every part of society," Mr. Smith said last week after the party gained more seats and the Conservatives suffered worse-than-expected losses in local government elections around the country.
        Many political analysts, though, questioned whether the thoughtful, ever-smiling Mr. Smith was aggressive enough in his campaign style to finish off the Conservatives at the next election, which must be held before May 1997. And while being telegenic is not nearly as high a priority for British politicians as for their counterparts in the United States, even some of his colleagues wondered whether the stocky, balding Mr. Smith could project the forceful and charismatic image the party would need in a general election campaign.
        There were also some doubts within his party about Mr. Smith's physical stamina. After suffering a heart attack in 1988, he took three months off to recuperate, and lost more than 40 pounds, bringing his weight down to about 170 pounds.
        Mr. Smith was born on Sept. 13, 1938, in the Scottish village of Ardrishaig. His father, a school headmaster, was a staunch Socialist who encouraged his son's interest in politics. As a student at Glasgow University, Mr. Smith ran twice for Parliament unsuccessfully.
        Mr. Smith received a law degree from Glasgow University in 1967 and won the parliamentary seat for Lanarkshire North three years later.
        He is survived by his wife of 26 years, the former Elizabeth Bennett, and by three daughters, Sarah, Catherine and Jane.
      