
        John B. Swainson, who was Governor of Michigan and then a Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court until he was convicted of perjury and resigned, died on Friday at his home in Manchester, Mich. He was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son John Stephen.
        Mr. Swainson, a Democrat, was elected Governor in 1960, served a two-year term and was narrowly defeated after a re-election campaign in which the state's economy was a major issue. He said he had been thwarted by Republican legislators in efforts to revamp the state's finances.
        He later served as a Wayne County circuit judge, was elected to the state Supreme Court in 1970 and came to be seen as a prospective candidate for the United States Senate.
        But his political career ended in 1975 after he was convicted, in Federal District Court in Detroit, of lying to a Federal grand jury in connection with accusations that he had accepted a bribe in 1972 to help a convicted burglar gain a review of his case. He was acquitted of conspiracy and served 60 days in a halfway house in Detroit.
        Mr. Swainson was born in Windsor, Ontario, and moved with his family to Port Huron, Mich., as a toddler. He went to Port Huron schools, served in the infantry in World War II and lost both legs, just below the knees, in a land mine explosion in 1944 near Metz, France.
        He earned bachelor's and law degrees in 1949 and 1951 from the University of North Carolina. He practiced law in Detroit and was a Michigan State Senator and then Lieutenant Governor before being elected Governor. Until last fall, he worked as a mediator and arbitrator.
        In addition to his son John Stephen, of Santa Fe, N.M., he is survived by his wife, the former Alice Nielsen, whom he married in 1946; another son, Hans Peter, who lives near Groton, Conn.; a daughter, Kristina Ann Way of Manchester, Mich.; his father, John A. C. of Chelsea, Mich.; a brother, Thomas, who lives near Port Huron, a sister, Carol Whitehead of Okemos, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      