
        The trumpeter and band leader Red Rodney, known for his association with Charlie Parker, died yesterday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 66.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Helene.
        Mr. Rodney, whose original name was Robert Chudnick, was one of jazz's best improvisers, a trumpeter whose geniality on and off the bandstand belied his ability to form perfect, competition-crushing solos onstage. In his later years, Mr. Rodney blossomed as a ballad player. He would take a melody and wring it for its meaning, using a soft, full tone and daring harmonic ideas to underscore its significance.
        Mr. Rodney exemplified the idea of wit in his improvisations, trying not so much for innovation as a soloist as for creativity within the basic confines of be-bop. And his improvising, with all its gleaming lines, gentleness and grace, attracted audiences: Mr. Rodney regularly toured the world as a headliner at festivals and clubs, and he often performed on jazz cruises and at jazz parties. Influenced by Harry James
        Mr. Rodney was born in Philadelphia. By his early teens he was working as a professional and quickly rose through the big-band ranks, appearing with Jimmy Dorsey, Georgie Auld, Claude Thornhill, Gene Krupa, Benny Goodman, Woody Herman and others. It was with Woody Herman in the late 1940's that he gained his reputation as one of the better young trumpeters. Mr. Rodney was first influenced by Harry James, but later became friendly with the be-bop trumpeter Howard McGhee and completely absorbed the be-bop language.
        Mr. Rodney had known Charlie Parker since 1944, and in 1949, Parker offered Mr. Rodney the trumpet chair in his quintet, which Miles Davis had vacated, and positioned Mr. Rodney in one of the most visible spots in the jazz world.
        It was a spot he tried to turn down. In Ira Gitler's "Swing to Bop," Mr. Rodney is quoted as saying to Parker, "There's so many people who are much more deserving than me." And Parker said: "Let me be the judge of that. I want you." It placed him next to the most volatile soloist jazz had at the time, and from that experience Mr. Rodney became the masterly trumpeter he was for much of his career. All the while Mr. Rodney had been recording for Keynote, EmArcy and Mercury under his own name, and with Mr. Parker.
        Mr. Rodney then became addicted to heroin, the beginning of several periods in his life when he more or less drifted from the jazz spotlight. In the 1950's he divided his time between jazz, recording with Ira Sullivan, and his business as a society band leader in Philadelphia. In the 1960's he spent time in rehabilitation and performed in a Las Vegas pit band. In 1973 he had a stroke, then decided to return to jazz. Rejoined Old Colleagues
        His return was among the jazz world's brighter moments, and from the 1970's on, Mr. Rodney was one of jazz's more imposing band leaders, rejoining forces with Ira Sullivan, performing with Dizzy Gillespie and others and acting as a talent scout, most notably with the fine young saxophonist Chris Potter, of whom he was extremely proud. Mr. Rodney acted as an adviser on Clint Eastwood's "Bird," in which his character was featured extensively.
        He was also a more than able raconteur, deriving pleasure from telling tales, several of them quite tall, to journalists. He was an occasional performer at Jazz at Lincoln Center, turning in a stunning version of "Everytime We Say Goodbye" at Alice Tully Hall in August 1993, and was a regular performer at JVC Jazz festival concerts.
        He also continued making recordings, most recently releasing "Then and Now" (Chesky), recorded in 1992 and one of his strongest albums. In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons from a former marriage, Jeff Rodney of Palms Springs, Calif., and Mark Rodney of Las Vegas.
      