
        Michael Schwartz, a dancer and pioneer in dance video documentation, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. Mr. Schwartz was 47 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Mark Robison.
        After a career performing with choreographers who included Margaret Jenkins, James Cunningham and Elizabeth Streb, Mr. Schwartz established a career as a video archivist of dance and theater. He founded and was president of Character Generators Inc., one of New York City's major performance videotaping services. Mr. Schwartz made a point of hiring and training dancers to videotape performances, and the company was known for the sensitivity of its work.
        Mr. Schwartz developed special training techniques. Because of the financial constraints on most dance companies, he also developed single-camera techniques and he insisted on the use of the camera's manual rather than automatic features. "The camera danced with the dance," said Mr. Robison, a dancer and video photographer who is vice president of Character Generators.  Studied Dance in College
        Mr. Schwartz was born in Chicago. He began his dance training in college, at Arizona State University in Tempe, and later studied with Viola Farber and Merce Cunningham. He began to work in video in 1979, serving as a cameraman, video consultant and teacher. He began a series of dance video collaborations in 1984, producing pieces with Trisha Brown and later Ms. Streb, Gus Solomons Jr. and Nina Wiener. In 1991, he collaborated with the dance writer Sally Sommer in documenting social dancing in New York clubs and developed an interactive prototype for dance documentation.
        Mr. Schwartz's archival clients included the Brooklyn Academy of Music Next Wave Festival, the DIA Art Foundation Poetry Project, the Danspace Project, Performance Space 122, Jacques d'Amboise's National Dance Institute, Playwrights Horizon, the Lincoln Center Institute and the Library of the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center, where he documented performances for the Dance and the Theater Collections.
        In addition to Mr. Robison, Mr. Schwartz is survived by a sister, Betty Jo Schwartz of Phoenix, and a brother, Charles J. Schwartz of Los Angeles.
      