
        Erwin A. Glikes, a leading publisher of nonfiction books for a quarter-century, whose authors included some of the most prestigious figures in American intellectual life, died on Friday night. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack while on his way to his weekend home in upstate New York, said his wife, Carol Janeway.
        Since 1969, when he left a post as associate dean of Columbia College, Mr. Glikes (pronounced GLICK-ess), who worked at three different publishing companies over the years, gained a reputation for a rare talent in contemporary publishing: making commercial successes of serious books on public policy, history and ideas.
        He was the president and publisher of Basic Books for seven years in the mid-1970's, the publisher of the trade division at Simon & Schuster and, since 1983, the president and publisher of The Free Press.
        After the sale of Macmillan Publishing Company, the parent of The Free Press, to Paramount Communications, Mr. Glikes had begun working only a few weeks ago at Penguin U.S.A., where he was to be in charge of a new nonfiction division, True North Publishing. A Conservative Liberal
        Among the authors published by Mr. Glikes, and whose books have long runs on the New York Times best-seller list, were George Will, Judge Robert Bork and Michael Porter, whose "Competitive Advantage of Nations" was among his early successes.
        At Simon & Schuster, Mr. Glikes signed up a little-known member of the University of Chicago Committee on Social Thought, Alan Bloom. Mr. Bloom's book "The Closing of the American Mind" turned into a surprise best seller, provoking fierce debate between liberals and conservatives in the universities and the news media.
        Mr. Glikes's public reputation was as a publisher of conservative authors like Mr. Will and Judge Bork. In recent years, he published "The End of History and the Last Man," by Francis Fukuyama, and "The Real Anita Hill," by David Brock, both of which stayed on the best-seller list for many weeks. Friends and colleagues, however, tended to describe him as a cold-war liberal whose conservatism was defined by the leftward movement of others in academic and intellectual life.
        "There haven't been many like him," said Irving Kristol, the author and commentator, who hired Mr. Glikes a quarter-century ago for his first publishing job at Basic Books. "He managed to invest smaller publishing houses with serious and intellectual and academic content and make them into profitable enterprises while keeping up very high standards." From Academia to Publishing
        Mr. Glikes was born in Antwerp, Belgium, in 1937, and he came to the United States in 1942, when his family, who were Jewish, escaped the Nazi invasion of Belgium.
        He was educated at Columbia College and did graduate work at the University of Tubingen, Germany, and at Columbia, where he eventually joined the faculty to teach English and comparative literature.
        In 1968, when Columbia erupted in student protests, Mr. Glikes soured on academic life and asked Mr. Kristol, who was then second in command at the recently started Basic Books, to help him get a job in publishing.
        While still at Columbia, Mr. Glikes had published an avant-garde literary magazine as well as a book of poems about the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy. He was hired at Basic as a senior editor, and after three years he became the company's president and publisher, staying until 1979.
        After four years at Simon & Schuster, Mr. Glikes took over at the Free Press, a small division at Macmillan that was languishing despite its distinguished past. Not only did Mr. Glikes insist on making an independent choice of books to publish but, almost alone as the head of a subdivision of a larger company, he also created independent sales and publicity divisions.
        His methods were successful in spurring a rapid growth at The Free Press, which became one of the most profitable divisions in publishing when many major houses were falling on hard times. Mr. Glikes was always proud that The Free Press not only published books on difficult and controversial subjects, but made money doing so.
        He is survived by his wife, an editor and vice president at Alfred A. Knopf; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Lela.
      