
        Mark Lipman, a private investigator for 60 years and founder of an investigative services agency with offices across the nation, died on Sunday at his home in Memphis. He was 88.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Lipman was born in Philadelphia, studied accounting at Temple University and worked for the Office of Price Administration in World War II. He began working as a private investigator before the war, tracking delinquent clients of his brother's finance company in Philadelphia.
        He moved to Little Rock, Ark., in 1935 and formed Mark Lipman Service, specializing in claims work for lawyers and helping businesses to stop theft by their employees. As it grew, the firm began attracting work from Fortune 500 companies.
        Mr. Lipman moved his agency to Memphis in 1958. Since 1970, it has been the Mark Lipman Service division of Guardsmark Inc., a nationwide security firm with headquarters in Memphis. At his death Mr. Lipman was division president and a senior vice president of Guardsmark.
        In 1973, Mr. Lipman teamed up with Robert Daley, a former Police Commissioner of New York City, to write a book titled "Stealing: How America's Employees Are Stealing Their Companies Blind."
        He also lectured widely about crime. In recognition of his efforts to further criminology, the library at the Center for Studies in Criminology and Criminal Law at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School was named after him in 1985.
        Mr. Lipman is survived by his wife of 64 years, Belle Ackerman Lipman; a son, Ira A., of Memphis, who is chairman and president of Guardsmark; a daughter, Carol Lipman of Memphis, and three grandsons.
        Correction:  May 26, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Mark Lipman, a private investigator, referred incorrectly to Robert Daley, a former New York City police official. Mr. Daley, who worked with Mr. Lipman on the book "Stealing: How America's Employees Are Stealing Their Companies Blind," was a deputy police commissioner of New York City, not the Commissioner.
      