
        Dr. Oliver Cope, an innovative surgeon who taught at Harvard Medical School, died on Saturday at his son's home in Woodsville, N.H. A former resident of Lincoln and Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Cope was living with his son at his death. He was 91.
        He died after a brief illness, said his son, Robert.
        At his death, Dr. Cope was professor of surgery emeritus at Harvard Medical School. His wide range of expertise covered endocrinology, treatments for burn victims, diseases of the breast and psychosomatic illness. Techniques he developed for the surgical treatment of diseased parathyroid glands remain in use today.
        His death came a day after the death of his wife of 62 years, Alice DeNormandie Cope. She was 84 and also died at her son's home.
        Dr. Cope was born in Germantown, Pa., and graduated from Harvard, where he also earned his medical degree in 1928. That year he began seven decades of association with Massachusetts General Hospital, retiring as senior surgeon in 1989. He joined the faculty of Harvard Medical School as an instructor in 1933, and reached emeritus status in 1969. Worked on Burn Treatments
        After Pearl Harbor, Dr. Cope sought to improve the treatment of burns by working with petroleum jelly, wraps and intravenous fluids rather than the therapy at the time, tannic acid. At the end of the war he turned his attention to the treatment of burned children.
        He also began to question the routine prescription of radical mastectomies in the 1940's and advocated lumpectomies combined with radiation and drug therapy. After he retired from surgery in 1969, he devoted his time to the care of women with breast cancer.
        The author of six books and nearly 200 articles, he held that a doctor would be out of touch with the world around him unless his education also included psychiatry and the behavioral sciences, anthropology and sociology. Without that broader background, he argued, the doctor remained ignorant of the healing profession.
        Besides his son, who is also a resident of Worcester, Mass., Dr. Cope is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Cope Harrison of Lebanon, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      