
        Dr. Hiroshi Hatanaka, a Japanese neurosurgeon who persevered with research on a new treatment for brain tumors when most of his peers had given up on it, died on May 14 in a Tokyo hospital. He was 62 and lived in Tokyo.
        He died of a stroke, said Prof. Rolf F. Barth, a friend and colleague at Ohio State University in Columbus.
        At his death Dr. Hatanaka, who lived in Tokyo, was a professor of neurosurgery at Teikyo University in Tokyo. He was internationally recognized for advancing the brain tumor treatment, known as the boron neutron capture therapy.
        He received his medical degree from Tokyo University in 1957 and came to the United States as a Fulbright Scholar in 1964. For the next three years he worked at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital with Dr. William H. Sweet, chief of surgery at Massachusetts General, who had previously treated brain tumor patients with the new therapy. Disappointing Initial Trials
        The therapy combines the use of a boron-containing drug with neutron irradiation of the brain. But the initial trials proved disappointing because the boron compounds, intended to infiltrate the cancer cells and attract neutrons that lead to the destruction of the cells, lacked the selectivity to localize a tumor.
        Dr. Hatanaka continued his research despite the skepticism of specialists who pointed to the clinical failures in the United States in the 1950's and 1960's. When he returned to Japan in 1967, he used a new boron compound that was more selective, and started clinical trials.
        From 1968 to 1993, he treated more than 120 patients. Most of the patients had a highly malignant form of brain cancer and underwent surgery along with the neutron capture therapy.
        Professor Barth said Dr. Hatanaka succeeded in curing some patients and prolonging the lives of others. As a result, he said, there is a growing belief that the treatment has "great potential."
        Dr. Hatanaka is survived by his wife, Louisa Beck, and two daughters, Elsa and Clara, all of Tokyo.
        Correction:  June 2, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary headline on Tuesday about a Japanese neurosurgeon, known internationally for advancing the brain tumor treatment known as the boron neutron capture therapy, misspelled his given name. He was Dr. Hiroshi Hatanaka.
      