
        Dr. Margaret Shaughnessy Gordon, who became a prominent economist in an academic discipline long dominated by men, died on Saturday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 83.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Gordon was a professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, where she had served as associate director of the Institute of Industrial Relations from 1954 until 1969. She produced numerous books and studies on health, welfare, employment and, later, higher education.
        One of her books, "Employment Expansion and Population Growth: The California Experience, 1900-1950," published in 1954, was among the first analyses to arrive at the conclusion that California, more than any other state, depended on military spending. Another, "Social Security Policies in Industrial Countries: An International Perspective" (Cambridge University Press, 1989) remains in print.
        Other books by Dr. Gordon included "Barrier to World Trade" (1941), "The Economics of Welfare Policies" (1963), "Retraining and Labor Market Adjustment in Western Europe" (1965), and "Youth Education and Unemployment Problems: An International Perspective" (1979). Role in War on Poverty
        She drafted more than a dozen reports for the Carnegie Commission and Council on Higher Education while serving consecutively as associate director of both from 1969 to 1979. In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her to the Commission on Income Maintenance Programs to examine all "welfare and related programs" in his War on Poverty.
        A native of Wabasha, Minn., she graduated from Bryn Mawr College and received her Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1935. In World War II she worked in the Federal Government's Office of Price Administration.
        Dr. Gordon's husband, Robert A. Gordon, who died in 1978 after the couple had been married 42 years, was also a Harvard-educated ecomonics professor, as were her two sons. In Berkeley she was active in civic affairs and was a committeewoman with the Democratic Party of Alameda County. Her husband was also a professor of economics at Berkeley.
        She is survived by her sons, Robert J., of Evanston, Ill., an economics professor at Northwestern University, and David M., of Manhattan, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research. .
      