
        Josephine Moy Hong, active in Chinese-American affairs and Republican Party politics, died on Sunday in Flushing Hospital. She was 93 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens.
        She suffered a brief illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Hong was born in Boston but spent much of her childhood in southern China, where her father moved when she was 8 years old to help develop the mining industry.
        She returned to the United States in 1917 and studied economics and psychology at the University of Chicago and New York University. In 1923 she married Louis Fong Sui Hong, who was instrumental in expanding operations in Asia for the National City Bank of New York. The family went to live at Shanghai's International Settlement, an enclave of foreigners guarded by Western forces, when the Japan invaded China in 1937. Mrs. Hong tended to the wounded and sick while under bombardments.
        Back in the United States in 1939, she organized a group of Chinese volunteers to raise funds for war refugees in New York. After Pearl Harbor, she served as a director of the National Board of the American Women's Voluntary Service and as chairman of its Chinese unit in New York.
        In the decades since, she held leading positions in the Chinese Women's Benevolent Association, the Institute of Chinese Culture, the Chinese Cultural Renaissance Society and the Asian American Assembly, among others.
        She turned to Republican Party politics in the 1960's and was vice president of the New York State Republican Heritage Groups Council.
        She was inducted as a Life Member of the Republican Party in 1979. In 1982, President Ronald Reagan named her to his Peace Corps Advisory Council.
        Mrs. Hong is survived by three sons; Alfred of Jamaica Estates, Robert of Syosset, L.I., and Morris of Fresh Meadows, Queens; a daughter, Virginia Wei of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Moy of Chicago; a sister, Mae Wu of Berkeley, Calif.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      