
        Fredi Washington, one of the first black actresses to gain recognition for her work on stage and in film, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn., where she lived. She was 90.
        The cause was pneumonia, which developed after a stroke, said her sister, Isabel Powell.
        Miss Washington's best-known performance was as the young mulatto who passes for white in the 1934 film "Imitation of Life." Her performance was so convincing that she was accused of denying her heritage in her private life.
        "She did pass for white when she was traveling in the South with Duke Ellington and his band," said Jean-Claude Baker, a restaurateur and author and a friend of Ms. Washington's. "They could not go into ice-cream parlors, so she would go in and buy the ice cream, then go outside and give it to Ellington and the band. Whites screamed at her, 'Nigger lover!' " Danced With Josephine Baker
        Miss Washington, whose given name was Fredricka, was born in Savannah, Ga., on Dec. 23, 1903. She made her first cabaret appearance in New York at 16 as a member of the Happy Honeysuckles hired by Josephine Baker, Mr. Baker's foster mother, and was a chorus girl in the musical "Shuffle Along" in 1921. While performing at the Club Alabam in Manhattan, she was noticed by the producer Lee Shubert, who recommended her for the co-starring role opposite Paul Robeson in the play "Black Boy" (she played the role under the stage name Edith Warren).
        At the end of the run, with no serious productions for black actors in view, she turned to dancing and toured Europe with her dance partner, Al Moiret.
        When she returned to the United States, she appeared in such stage productions as "Run, Little Chillun," "Great Day," "Singing the Blues," "Mamba's Daughters," "Lysistrata" and "A Long Way From Home" (an all-black production of Gorky's "Lower Depths"). Her film work included roles in "The Emperor Jones," "Black and Tan Fantasy," "Drums in the Night" and "One Mile From Heaven."
        Miss Washington worked for equal rights for blacks in the theater and film industry and was a founder of the Negro Actors Guild. She also was a drama editor and columnist for The People's Voice, a New York weekly newspaper published by Adam Clayton Powell Jr., her sister's husband at the time.
        Miss Washington's marriage to Lawrence Brown, a trombonist in the Duke Ellington Orchestra, ended in divorce. Her second husband, Dr. Anthony H. Bell, died in the early 1980's. In addition to Mrs. Powell, of New York City, she is survived by two other sisters, Rosebud Smith of Jamaica, Queens, and Gertrude Penna of Orlando, Fla., and a brother, Floyd Washington of Hempstead, L.I.
      