
        Terence de Vere White, an Irish author and former editor, died on Friday in London. He was 82 and had lived in London since 1977.
        He had Parkinson's disease, British newspapers reported.
        Mr. White wrote 26 books, mostly novels and short-story collections. He was the literary editor of The Irish Times from 1961 to 1977 and a central figure in the cultural life of his native Dublin for years, serving on the boards of the National Library, the Gate Theater and the National Gallery of Ireland. He was also a member of the Irish Academy of Letters.
        Mr. White once observed cheerfully, "One expects books to loom large on the literary scene but, in Ireland, not so large as authors." In his London years, he became a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.
        Appraising his fiction writing on Saturday, The Times of London called him "a mot juste stylist and a delicate anatomist of the heart's affections" with a "gift for high comedy tempered with human understanding."
        His writing won praise from American critics. In 1969, his book "Ireland," a popular history of the island, was called admirably concise and lucidly written. His novel "Lucifer Falling" was described in 1967 as sparkling satire about the law of the jungle operating in Irish academic life. Another novel, "The Minister for Justice," was lauded in 1971 as refined entertainment that was civilized, clever and full of honest sentiment.
        The son of a Protestant father and a Roman Catholic mother, he studied at Trinity College, Dublin, worked as a solicitor for decades and began writing part time. His second book, "Kevin O'Higgins," a 1948 biography of the first Irish Minister of Justice, who was shot to death in 1927, is still in print, from Anvil.
        He had two sons and a daughter with his first wife, the former Mary O'Farrell, from whom he was later divorced.
        His survivors include his second wife, Victoria Glendinning, an author and journalist.
      