
        Edward Kienholz, whose elaborate, often macabre sculptural tableaux were savage indictments of American life, died on Friday at the Bonner General Hospital in Hope, Idaho. He was 65 and had homes and studios in Hope as well as Berlin and Houston.
        The cause was heart failure, said Peter Gould, whose gallery, L. A. Louver, has represented Mr. Kienholz since 1981.
        Mr. Kienholz was a member of a talented generation that emerged in the late 1950's in the wake of Abstract Expressionism, gradually forsaking painting in favor of three-dimensional art like sculpture. His contemporaries in time, if not sensibility, included Claes Oldenburg, Donald Judd, Dan Flavin and Robert Irwin. But while these artists were part of the relatively cool Pop or Minimalist art movements, Mr. Kienholz, who first established his career in Los Angeles, remained largely a stylistic loner drawn to heated subjects.
        His work combined elements of Surrealism, Expressionism, Pop and the technique of assemblage, which he expanded to a theatrical, walk-in scale. The basic unit of his art was the found object, especially life-sized mannequins and stuffed animals from the taxidermist shop, often supplemented with casts made from real people. His technique was itself a kind of taxidermy, although his figures tended to be fantastical, with clocks or animal skulls for heads. His subject was the human condition on a bad day. Harsh Mirror of Society
        In the 1960's in particular, his work was a harsh mirror of society. His tableaux included a 1943 Nevada bordello ("Roxy's"), a view of a couple having sex in a car ("The Back Seat Dodge '38"), and a down-and-out Los Angeles saloon ("The Beanery"). The last sculpture prompted his work to be condemned as "pornographic" and "revolting" at the time of his first retrospective, at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in 1966.
        Many of his pieces were based on his own experiences. "State Hospital," which depicted two neglected inmates on a threadbare bunk-bed, reflected a stint as a hospital attendant. "Sollie 17," a bleak view of an old man playing solitaire in a hotel room, resulted from a chance encounter he had in the Green Hotel in Pasadena in 1962.
        Born in Fairfield, Wash., in 1927, Mr. Kienholz grew up on his family's wheat farm. He moved to Los Angeles in 1953, where his interest in art moved from painting into large reliefs. He showed his work for the first time in 1955 at the Cafe Galleria, and the next year helped establish the Ferus Gallery, which became the center of the burgeoning Los Angeles art scene.
        At Ferus, Mr. Kienholz hung the pictures, manned the desk and also exhibited his work in three solo shows before he left the gallery in 1960. In the late 1970's, after building a house and studio in Hope, he opened the Faith and Charity in Hope Gallery there holding summer exhibitions of both well-known and emerging artists, including Francis Bacon, Jasper Johns, Peter Shelton and Robert Helm. Acknowledging Collaborator
        The gallery was a joint effort with his fifth wife, Nancy Reddin Kienholz, a photojournalist whom he married in 1973. In 1979, he announced, to the surprise of his wife, that her involvement with his work was so great that he considered everything he had done since 1972 a collaboration between the two of them. Thereafter their names appeared together in all references to their work.
        Work by Mr. Kienholz and also by the two Kienholzes has been exhibited in museums around the world and is represented in major museums in the United States and Europe.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Kienholz is survived by two children from his third marriage, a son, Noah, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Jenny, of San Francisco; his stepdaughter, Chrissy, of Moscow, Idaho; a sister, Shirley White, of Sandpoint, Idaho, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 14, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary in some copies on Sunday about the sculptor Edward Kienholz misstated his age. He was 66, not 65.
      