
        Baron Marcel Bich, whose inexpensive Bic disposable pens, lighters and razors made him wealthy enough to sustain an 11-year quest for the America's Cup, died on Monday in Paris. He was 79 and lived in suburban Neuilly-sur-Seine.
        After fixing up a leaky shed in Clichy, a northern Paris suburb, after World War II, Baron Bich and a partner, Edouard Buffard, began turning out inexpensive penholders and pencil cases. Later he obtained the patent rights to a ball-point pen invented by a Hungarian, Ladislas Biro, and formed Societe Bic in 1953. (The baron's name and the pen's are pronounced beek in French.)
        The inexpensive pens proved irresistible to consumers, beginning with the French. The corporation rapidly expanded, with factories in many countries turning out billions of pens sold singly or by the carton. Later he produced disposable razors and lighters. Annual Sales of $1.1 Billion
        In 1993 the Bic group reported worldwide sales of $1.1 billion and a profit of $70.5 million. In the United States, the French parent is represented by the Bic Corporation, based in Milford, Conn., and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Societe Bic also owns the French fashion and perfume house Guy Laroche, the stocking company Dim and the lingerie maker Rosy.
        Last year the baron stepped down as chairman of Societe Bic in favor of Bruno Bich, one of his 11 children.
        A stocky, flamboyant man, Baron Bich reveled in the publicity that his public ventures attracted but valued his personal privacy and family life.
        He was born in Turin, Italy, the son of an engineer, on July 29, 1914. He obtained French citizenship, studied law in Paris and served in the French Air Force at the outset of World War II. The 12-Meter Racers
        He lavished many millions on his stubborn, even obsessive, pursuit of the America's Cup, yachting's prestigious prize. His challenge in 1970 was the first from outside the English-speaking world, and he raced his handsome 12-meter sloops France and France I, II and III off Newport, R.I., with a dash of high theater and in sartorial splendor.
        After competing in 1970, 1974 and 1977, France III entered in 1980 with a 0-18 team record. This time the sloop survived the initial round-robin trial against Lionheart of England but lost to Australia in the semifinals.
        The Baron's title, which goes back to 1848 and Duke Charles Albert of Savoy, now goes to his eldest son, Claude, executive vice president of Societe Bic. Baron Bich was also a Knight of the French Legion of Honor.  His first wife, Louise Chamussy, died in 1950. He is survived by his second wife, Laurence Courier de Mere, and by 11 children, 11 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      