
        Charles E. Saltzman, a soldier, statesman and civic leader, died on Thursday at his East Side apartment. He was 90.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Clotilde Saltzman.
        In the 50 years after his graduation from West Point in 1925, Mr. Saltzman was a Rhodes Scholar, a decorated brigadier general in the United States Army, a vice president of the New York Stock Exchange, an Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas in Europe, an Under Secretary of State for Administration in Washington, and a partner in several Wall Street investment houses. Born at an Army Post
        Charles Eskridge Saltzman was born into an Army family at a military post in Zamboanga, the Philippines. His father was Maj. Gen. Charles McKinley Saltzman, a West Point graduate, and his mother, Mary Eskridge Saltzman, was the daughter of an Army colonel and the granddaughter of an Army general.
        At West Point Mr. Saltzman graduated fourth in his class, then became one of the Military Academy's first two Rhodes Scholars, graduating from Magdalen College of Oxford University in 1928.
        Mr. Saltzman served two years on active duty, including as a White House aide during the Hoover Administration, then left the Army to go to Wall Street, where he eventually became secretary and a vice president of the New York Stock Exchange.
        He returned to the Army as a lieutenant colonel in 1940 and during the next five years served as a staff officer in Washington, London, Morocco and Italy. Promoted to brigadier general in 1945, Mr. Saltzman served as deputy chief of staff of the 15th Army Group under General Mark W. Clark. At the end of the war Mr. Saltzman was the director of public economy and public administration in the American Zone of Occupation in Austria. Back to the Stock Exchange
        He returned to the New York Stock Exchange in 1946, then resumed government service the next year as Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas in Europe, a post he held until 1949.
        Back in Wall Street, Mr. Saltzman became a partner in Henry Sears & Company, a venture capital company. In 1954 he served for six months as Under Secretary of State for Administration to help reorganize the State Department and Foreign Service. In 1956 he became a partner in Goldman, Sachs & Company, where he remained until his retirement in 1973.
        Mr. Saltzman's decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Order of the British Empire, the Croix de Guerre, the Polish Cross of Merit, the Order of the Crown of Italy and the Brazilian War Medal. A Director and Trustee
        Mr. Saltzman served as a director or trustee of many academic, religious, financial, international and philanthropic groups in New York. Among them were the Association of Graduates of West Point, American Council on Germany, the International Chamber of Commerce, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Japan Society, the Bond Club of New York, Barnard College, the Brearley School, the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, the American Red Cross, the English-Speaking Union, the Alliance Francaise, the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, the American Bible Society, and Christ Church-United Methodist.
        Among Mr. Saltzman's clubs were the Century Association, the Lambs, the Leash, River Club, Downtown Association, Union Club, University Club, the Recess, Army and Navy Club of Washington, Metropolitan Club and the Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.
        In 1931 Mr. Saltzman married Gertrude Lamont, from whom he was divorced in 1947. That same year he married Cynthia Southall Myrick, but that union also was dissolved in 1969. In 1978 he married Clotilde Knapp McCormick, who survives him.
        He is also survived by his son, Charles McK. Saltzman 2d of Aspers, Pa., and two daughters, Penelope Billings of Washington and Cynthia Motley of Brooklyn.
      