
        Archer Cole, who spent more than 50 years in the American labor movement, the last 10 as president of the New Jersey Industrial Union Council, died on Saturday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Roselle, N.J.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At his death, he was also director of organization and assistant to the president of the International Union of Electrical and Electronic Workers. He helped draft the union's bargaining position for contract negotiations with the General Electric Corporation now under way in New York.
        Mr. Cole, a native of New York City, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from City College. Since 1940 he served in many capacities, from shop steward to international representative to secretary to president of District 3 of the electrical workers, which covers New Jersey and New York.
        "He was a great labor leader and just a wonderful human being and like a brother to me," said Bill Bywater, president of the union. "His only concern was for working people, and I never saw someone who spent so much time fighting for their interests." Held Trenton Positions
        While Mr. Cole was head of the New Jersey Industrial Union Council, the membership reached 200,000 people.
        He also held various public jobs. Gov. Brendan T. Byrne named him to the New Jersey Economic Recovery Commission in 1977. He was then chairman of the state's Employment Security Council through successive administrations in Trenton.
        Gov. Thomas H. Kean recruited him in 1984 for a blue-ribbon Commission on Unemployment, which helped to revise the state's unemployment insurance program. He also taught labor studies at colleges, lectured and appeared on broadcast programs on behalf of organized labor.
        While attending City College in the 1930's, Mr. Cole worked nights for Western Union. He was a shop steward from 1937 to 1941 before the electrical workers' union made him an organizer in Newark.
        Mr. Cole is survived by his wife, Phyllis Salvato-Cole; four sons, Henry, of Upper Marlboro, Md., Fred, of New Brunswick, N.J., Stephen, of Chicago, and Theodore, of New York City; a brother, Jack Cohen of Fairfield, Conn.; a sister, Susan Kissler of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      