
        Kenneth N. Pontikes, the founder of Comdisco, a pioneer in computer leasing and support services, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. He was 54 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was colon cancer, the company said.
        Mr. Pontikes founded Comdisco in 1969 with a $5,000 loan and the goal of using his five years of experience as an International Business Machines salesman to broker deals between companies buying and selling used computers. He took the company public in 1971 and built his leasing business by buying I.B.M. computers.
        Later he began building centers to provide backup processing power to customers with computers that had been damaged by natural disasters or power failures. By the 1980's, he had prospered enough to be put on Forbes Magazine's list of the nation's 400 wealthiest people.
        Mr. Pontikes (pronounced pahn-TEE-kiss) led Comdisco through several challenges to its prosperity. During the 1980's, the company weathered a Government investigation over its accounting practices and sales of investment tax credits. It also faced strong competition, led by I.B.M. itself, as the leasing business grew. In recent years, it branched into refurbishing and leasing medical equipment and other high-technology items. In recent years, annual sales have topped $2 billion.
        Mr. Pontikes was chairman of the board and president of Comdisco at the time of his death. The day-to-day management of the company has been in the hands of an "office of the president" led by Jack Slevin, chief operating officer, since Mr. Pontikes's cancer was diagnosed in December.
        Mr. Pontikes was born on the South Side of Chicago on March 15, 1940. His parents, who emigrated from Greece, ran a grocery store. He graduated from Southern Illinois University in 1963 and worked at Data Power Inc., a computer service firm in Chicago, for a year before joining I.B.M.
        He is survived by his wife, Lynn; a son, Nicholas K., of Chicago; two daughters, Victoria Gallegos of San Francisco and Melissa Scanlan of West Dundee, Ill.; his father, Nicholas K., of Chicago; a brother, William, of Riverwood, Ill.; a sister, Beatrice, of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      