
        Jose Jaime Pierluisi, an aide to to the Governor of Puerto Rico, was killed on Tuesday night during a robbery in the San Juan area. He was 28 years old.
        Mr. Pierluisi, the brother of Puerto Rico's Justice Secretary, was fatally shot just before midnight in what the police said was a carjacking outside his parents' home in the affluent Condado section of the capital. The thieves stole his car, wallet and briefcase, the police said.
        Mr. Pierluisi, who graduated cum laude from Harvard College and earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School, had been Gov. Pedro Rossello's aide for economic development since January.
        Mr. Pierluisi was the youngest of five children in a politically active San Juan family.
        His father, Jorge, was Puerto Rico's Secretary of Housing from 1977 to 1984. His brother, Pedro, is the Justice Secretary, and his other brother, Jorge Jr., is a San Juan lawyer in private practice. One of his two sisters lives in Miami and the other in Boston.
        Mr. Pierluisi was engaged to be married in December to Consuelo Sifre, a third-year student at the University of Puerto Rico Law School.
        After Mr. Pierluisi's body was identified early on Wednesday, Governor Rossello declared three days of mourning, said a spokesman for the Governor, George McDougall. Governor Rossello served as a pall bearer at the funeral on Thursday, Secretary Pierluisi said.
        In brotherly competition, "he broke all our records," Secretary Pierluisi said. "He was the first one to go to Harvard from our family."
        Mr. Pierluisi graduated from Harvard College in 1987 and went to work for the First Boston Corporation in San Juan as a financial analyst. In 1989, he enrolled at the Harvard Business School, from which he graduated in 1991 with an M.B.A. He was hired as vice president and treasurer of The Bank and Trust of Puerto Rico, where he worked until the inauguration of Governor Rossello in January. In his post with the Governor, Mr. Pierluisis worked on trade and other economic issues.
        Carjacking has become common in Puerto Rico, said Richard Schwein, the special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's office in San Juan. He said the city alone had about 4,000 carjackings last year, several of which resulted in fatalities.
        A year ago, the Federal Government formed a task force of local and Federal authorities to fight carjackings. Mr. Schwein said it was the work of that task force that led to the arrest on Thursday of a suspect in Mr. Pierluisi's killing, 26-year-old Jose Antonio Nunez Rodriguez of San Juan. Under a year-old Federal carjacking law, Mr. Schwein said, Mr. Nunez, if convicted, would face a maximum penalty of life in prison for carjacking with a firearm.
        At least one other suspect is being sought in Mr. Pierluisi's death, which authorities said did not appear to be politically motivated.
        A bail hearing for Mr. Nunez is set for Monday in Federal District Court in San Juan.
      