
        Otis M. Smith, the first black to serve on the Michigan Supreme Court and the first to be named a corporate officer of the General Motors Corporation, died in his sleep at his home in Detroit yesterday after a four-year bout with prostate cancer. He was 72.
        Mr. Smith, who retired from General Motors in 1984 as vice president and general counsel, became one of the highest-ranking blacks in corporate America when Thomas Murphy, G.M.'s chairman, appointed him as the auto maker's top lawyer in 1977. At the time the corporation was under attack on several legal and regulatory fronts, including accusations of tax fraud and lawsuits by consumers angry about the substitution of engines from one car division in models from another G.M. division.
        "I don't ignore the obvious," Mr. Smith said at the time of his appointment as general counsel, "but I like to think color didn't play a part."
        In a 1986 interview with the University of Michigan's alumni magazine, he recalled growing up poor in rigidly segregated Memphis. A light-skinned black, he described the advice of a teacher, which he ignored, to try to pass as a white man. During World War II he served as a journalist attached to the illustrious all-black airmen's unit based in Tuskegee, Ala. State Posts in Michigan
        As a young man Mr. Smith worked as a messenger and a porter in the Tennessee state capitol. He received his undergraduate education at Fisk University and Syracuse University and received his law degree in 1950 from Catholic University.
        He started his legal career as an assistant prosecutor in Flint, Mich. He came to statewide attention in 1957 when he was appointed to the Public Service Commission by Gov. G. Mennen Williams. He served as chairman of the commission from 1957 to 1959, auditor general of Michigan from 1959 to 1961 and as justice of the Supreme Court of Michigan from 1961 to 1966. After that, he joined the G.M. legal staff.
        Mr. Smith was a secretary of the Urban League, a member of the University of Michigan Board of Regents from 1967 to 1971 and was chairman of the board of Oakland University.
        He is survived by his wife, Mavis Livingston Smith; a brother, Hamilton of Washington; four sons and four grandchildren.
      