
        Sidney Gilliat, a British screenwriter, film director and producer who with his partner, Frank Launder, made a string of successful suspense and comedy films from the 1930's to the 1960's, died on Tuesday at his home in Pewsey Vale, England. He was 86.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Gilliat and Mr. Launder were partners for nearly 40 years, forming what The Times of London called "one of the most sparkling writing, directing and producing partnerships in postwar British cinema." They began their collaboration as screenwriters for the 1936 suspense film "Seven Sinners"; they also wrote the screenplay for "The Lady Vanishes," a 1938 film directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
        The pair became known for producing thrillers with a comic edge and needle-sharp wit, including "I See a Dark Stranger" and "Green for Danger," both of which were made in 1946, and "State Secret" (1950). 'State Secret'
        In a review of "State Secret," which Mr. Gilliat wrote and directed, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that the team of Gilliat and Launder had made "a film with both color and excitement which Glynis Johns and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. play in a mood of perpetually rigid terror that is as surely infectious as the plague."
        In the 1960's, Mr. Gilliat and Mr. Launder ran British Lion, an independent production and distribution company. During this time, they produced, and Mr. Gilliat directed, the 1962 film "Only Two Can Play," with Peter Sellers as an amorous library clerk in a small Welsh city. They also had commercial success with a popular series of comedies about St. Trinian's, a fictional boarding school for girls.
        Mr. Gilliat, who was born in Edgeley, England, in 1908, began his career writing lines for silent movies. He later wrote jokes for slapstick comedies before moving on to the writing of scripts with the 1931 film "A Gentleman of Paris."
        His wife, Beryl, died in 1981. He is survived by their two daughters, Joanna Russell and Caroline Brown, both of England.
      