
        Herbert Bienstock, a former regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics with the Department of Labor, died on Monday at his home in Bayside, Queens.
        He was 71 and died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Bienstock was principal spokesman on statistics for the Labor Department, covering a region that included New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and the Canal Zone, until he retired in 1979. Spicing Up Reports
        He was known for enlivening the government's monthly Consumer Price Index reports and for making the figures meaningful for consumers. For instance, he urged the public to eat turkeys when their prices dropped and even suggested stuffing them with green peppers when they were a bargain.
        "An economic, if not a gastronomical, delight," he said at the time.
        Mr. Bienstock told the public what was behind the cost of a steak or a new car, and why buying a chicken (fresh, not frozen) might be a prudent investment.
        Mr. Bienstock served as commissioner through nearly two decades, recording the wave of Government spending in the 1960's and the recession that hit New York City in 1970 and held for 10 years.
        During his tenure, he became an authority on human resources, employment and the growing problem of youths who could not find jobs.
        In 1983, three years after his retirement and a professor of labor and urban values at Queens College, he described teen-age unemployment as at its worst in the city's history.
        "We are living through a period of a teen-age employment disaster," he said. "What has it done to the teen-agers and the city? We have created a lost generation."
        Throughout his career, Mr. Bienstock combined a social conscience with a love of statistics -- almost, he said, making figures speak for themselves.
        But then, he also asked in 1975, "What can you say with figures? It all needs explaining."
        Educated in New York City public schools, Mr. Bienstock was graduated from City College in 1945 when he joined the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
        He was appointed regional commissioner in 1962. He also was a visiting lecturer and adjunct professor at Yeshiva University, the Hunter College Graduate School of Education, Baruch College, the New School for Social Research, Pace University's Graduate School of Business Administration, and at Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations. He also was the author of numerous articles dealing with employment.
        In 1970, City College awarded Mr. Bienstock the Townsend Harris Medal, for "Outstanding Achievement" in his chosen field. He was a fellow of the American Statistical Association and a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Christians and Jews Mobilization for Youth.
        He also helped found the Hebrew Academy, an elementary school in Bayside.
        Mr. Bienstock is survived by his wife, June; a daughter, Ruth Bienstock Anolik, of Penn Valley, Penn.; a son, Joshua, of Fresh Meadows, L.I.; a sister, Clara Schneider, of Bayside; and three grandchildren.
      