
        Roberto Burle Marx, whose mark on Brazil's landscape ranged from the undulating mosaic sidewalks of Copacabana Beach to the hanging gardens in the new capital of Brasilia, died on Saturday. He was 84 and lived in his lush, botanical retreat, a former coffee farm, 35 miles from here.
        He died of congestive heart failure, friends said.
        During a 60-year career, Brazil's most prominent landscape artist brought his nation's rich flora out from Europe's shadow and became a tireless champion of Brazil's orchids, palms, water lilies and bromeliads.
        His nearly 3,000 landscape projects in 20 nations ranged from the gardens of the Organization of American States headquarters in Washington to a redesign of Biscayne Boulevard in Miami, from the gardens of the Unesco headquarters in Paris to a tropical garden under glass at Longwood Gardens in Pennsylvania. Designed a Rio Park
        In Brazil, he was best known for Rio's postcard Flamengo Park -- 300 acres of lawns, playing fields, artificial beach and automobile parkway that connect the city's financial center with beachfront residential neighborhoods.
        "Unlike any other art form, a garden is designed for the future, and for future generations," Mr. Burle Marx said in an interview prior to his 1991 show at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The exhibit, "Roberto Burle Marx: The Unnatural Art of the Garden," was the museum's first devoted to a landscape architect.
        Born in Sao Paulo in 1909 to a Brazilian mother and a German father, Mr. Burle Marx only discovered the power and variety of Brazilian plants when he traveled to Berlin in 1928 to study at the Dahlem Botanical Gardens. Moving to Rio on his return to Brazil, he was experimenting in his backyard with local flora when he caught the eye of a neighbor, Lucio Costa.
        Decades later, the two worked together on the daring design for Brasilia, the new capital in the central high plains. Mr. Costa designed Le Corbusier-style buildings and Mr. Burle Marx designed landscapes, which ranged from monumental parks to the hanging gardens of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
        "He was the creator of Brazilian gardens," Mr. Costa said on Saturday. "He was an innovator because he associated abstract art with landscaping. Before him, our gardens were planned following French and English models."
        A self-taught botanist, this bear of a man with an unruly shock of white hair came to have 13 plant species named after him. Mr. Burle Marx also became a pioneering critic of Brazil's treatment of its historic and biological heritage.
        Although he escaped a kidnap attempt last year, apparently in an effort to get ransom, he criticized Rio's steady retreat behind walls, saying that a move last year to enclose city parks behind cast iron fences amounted to "Rio in a cage." On one occasion, he stalked out of a Brazilian Embassy in Greece when he encountered, in a waiting room, a plastic plant.
        Raising alarms about Amazon destruction decades before it became fashionable to do so, Mr. Burle Marx warned in 1971: "I fear that by the time people become enlightened, there won't be any more forests in this country."
      