
        Einar Ingvald Haugen, a professor of Scandinavian language and literature, died on Monday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88.
        Dr. Haugen, who lived in Belmont, Mass., suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        At his death he was the Victor S. Thomas Professor emeritus in Scandinavian studies at Harvard University, where he taught for 11 years before retiring in 1975.
        He was born to Norwegian immigrants in Sioux City, Iowa. His family said his lifetime interest in Scandinavian culture began in boyhood with a two-year sojourn at his parents' hometown, Opdal, a village in central Norway.
        He received a bachelor's degree from St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minn., and master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Illinois. 33 Years at U. of Wisconsin
        He started teaching as an assistant professor of Scandinavian languages at the University of Wisconsin in 1931 and rose through the academic ranks to become the university's Vilas Research Professor in Scandinavian and Linguistics in 1962 before joining the Harvard faculty in 1964.
        In World War II, Dr. Haugen taught a specialized language-training program for the armed forces, then served as the cultural relations attache in the United States Embassy in Oslo for a year.
        He was the author, co-author, translator or editor of scores of books, biographies, textbooks and dictionaries, many of which remain in print, and lectured at various universities in the United States, Europe and Japan.
        Professor Haugen's work to promote the study and understanding of Scandinavian culture in the United States earned him the Order of St. Olaf, First Class, the highest honor bestowed by the Norwegian Government. He was also honored by Sweden, which named him a commander of the North Star.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Eva Lund Haugen; two daughters, Anne Margaret Littlefield of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Camilla Christine Cai of Gambier, Ohio, and three grandchildren.
      