
        Jack Miller, who as an executive of the Miller Harness Company in Manhattan sold boots and saddles to the world's equestrians, died on Wednesday at his ranch at Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Diane Himmelbaum.
        Founded in 1912 by his father, Mayer Miller, a master harness maker from Russia, the five-floor family business at 123 East 24th Street sold all manner of horseback-riding paraphernalia, including haberdashery and tack.
        Originally geared to providing harnesses to the thousands of horses in commercial use in Manhattan, the business at one time maintained factories in England, India and Japan.  The Family Hangs On
        Though all but bankrupted by the internal combustion engine, the Miller family hung on, convinced that the horse would never be replaced entirely by the automobile, and credited gasoline rationing during World War II with a resurgence in the public's interest in horses.
        In the 1950's, during the height of its popularity, the company did a multimillion-dollar annual business, specializing in equestrian haute couture and offering more than 10,000 items for horse racing, sport riding, fox hunting, dressage and polo. While selling mainly to adherents of the English style of riding, the Millers also outfitted the cavalries of Venezuela, Colombia, Haiti and Cuba.
        Mayer Miller died in 1962. The family sold the company in 1975, and while the store remains in Manhattan, the wholesale division, which supplies 1,500 riding shops, is now based in East Rutherford, N.J.
        Jack Miller was executive vice president of the company before the sale.
        He was also an artist and sportswear designer, and in 1942 he designed a widely copied riding skirt. He exhibited paintings, sculptures and photographs at galleries in Manhattan and Provincetown, Mass., where he kept a summer home for many years.
        He is survived by his wife, Diana Jane Miller of Santa Barbara; two daughters, Mrs. Himmelbaum of Brooklyn and Martha Ann Miller of Santa Barbara; his brother, Joseph of Manhattan; two sisters, Ida Sherman of Jackson Heights, Queens, and Sally Greene of Valley Stream, L.I., and two grandchildren. His former wife is Hazel Reiss of Riverdale, the Bronx.
      