
        The Rev. James M. Demske, a Jesuit priest and an expert on Existentialist philosophy who led an expansion of Canisius College in Buffalo as its president from 1966 until last year, died on Wednesday at Sister's Hospital in Buffalo. He was 72 and lived in Buffalo.
        The cause was complications from leukemia, said Janet Holler, a spokeswoman for the college.
        At his death, Father Demske had been chancellor of the college, which was founded by the Jesuits in 1870, for a year.
        A native of Buffalo and a 1947 Canisius graduate, Father Demske held a doctorate in Philosophy from the University of Freiburg, Germany. His books included "Introductory Metaphysics" (1955), a textbook; "Encounters with Silence" (1960), about Existentialist philosophy; and "Being, Man and Death" (1970), about the philosophy of the Existentialist Martin Heidegger. Student Body Doubles
        Jerome L. Neuner, associate vice president for academic affairs at Canisius, said that as president, Father Demske "oversaw the greatest growth in the history of this institution," virtually doubling the student body, to more than 4,700 students, this spring.
        While he was president, the college's endowment grew to more than $27 million from $1 million, and its physical plant was enlarged. Under his administration, a school of business was added, and now roughly one-third of Canisius's students are majoring in business as undergraduates or are graduate students in business. About 1,400 students are studying for degrees in education, another field in which Canisius's program grew during his tenure.
        In World War II, Father Demske, then a layman, interrupted his undergraduate studies at the college and became an Army captain and company commander in Europe. He entered the Jesuit order in 1947 and pursued further study, in theology, at Woodstock College in Maryland and at the University of Innsbruck, Austria. He was ordained in 1957 in Innsbruck and earned his doctorate at Freiburg in 1962.
        From 1951 to 1954, he was a philosophy instructor at St. Peter's College in Jersey City, and from 1963 to 1966 he was a professor of theology and director of students at Bellarmine College in Plattsburgh, N.Y.
      