
        Dr. Herrlee Glessner Creel, a University of Chicago professor of East Asian languages and a highly regarded authority on Confucius, died on Wednesday at his home in Palos Park, Ill. He was 89.
        He had suffered a long illness, according to the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Creel, an authority on early Chinese history, philosophy and literature, joined the Chicago faculty in 1936 as an instructor and became a full professor in 1949. He was named the Martin A. Ryerson Distinguished Service Professor of East Asian Languages and Civilizations in 1964 and was given emeritus status 20 years ago.
        Versed in both modern and ancient Chinese script, he made his mark in the 1930's as a fledgling Sinologist when he discovered 3,000-year-old oracle bones that cast new light on the dawn of a civilization.
        He left a lasting impression with "The Birth of China" (1937), a book that drew a portrait of China's formative era, based on his exploration of the Shang dynasty and the Great City Shang on the Huan River.
        "Herrlee Creel was a giant in the field of Chinese studies," said David Roy, a professor of East Asian languages and civilizations at the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Creel was a founder of the university's Far Eastern studies program in the 1930's and was chiefly responsible for establishing its Far Eastern Library, an eminent collection of classical Chinese literature. He returned to China in 1939 to oversee the acquisition of more than 75,000 volumes for the library. A Literary Treasure
        He began by ordering some 5,000 books a year directly from Chinese dealers. With the support of the Rockefeller Foundation, he and his wife ventured to Beijing in 1939, when the city was already under Japanese occupation. "I thought there was going to be a war and that we should go to Beijing to get as many books out as we could before it was too late," he told an interviewer a few years ago.
        He bought trunkloads of books, most of them dealing with China before 1644. The year 1644 marks the Manchu conquest of China and the beginning of the Ch'ing dynasty, which scholars consider the start of modern China. Dr. Creel returned to Chicago in 1940 via Korea, Japan and Hawaii, while the war destroyed many books left behind.
        "His work helped to establish the University of Chicago as a leading international center of East Asian studies," Professor Roy said.
        Dr. Creel was the author of "Confucius: The Man and the Myth" (1949), which was acclaimed by his peers and lay critics alike. He contended that Confucius had been a genius whose factual biography and verifiable ideas had been nearly buried under a mass of false legends. After 20 years of studies, he proclaimed Confucius a reformer and an individualist, as well as a democratic and revolutionary teacher.
        His other books, still in reprints, included "Chinese Thought from Confucius to Mao Tse-Tung" (1971), "The Origins of Statecraft in China: The Western Chou Empire" (1970), "What is Taoism?" (1970), and textbooks on literary Chinese.
        A native of Chicago, Dr. Creel received his degrees from the University of Chicago and studied in Beijing before joining the faculty. He worked for Army intelligence in World War II, reaching the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Lorraine Johnson Creel.
      