
        Craig Miller, a lighting designer for ballet, theater and opera, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 43 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Miller was the resident lighting designer for the Santa Fe Opera since 1979. He worked with David Hockney on the 1993 design for "Die Frau Ohne Schatten" at the Royal Opera House in London. He also worked with the Houston Grand Opera, the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. and the Dallas Opera.
        His theater credits included the Roundabout Theater's revival of "Black Comedy/White Liars" last season. He was nominated for a Tony Award for his lighting for "Barnum" and created lighting for other Broadway productions including "The Most Happy Fella," "Safe Sex," "On Golden Pond," "The Wind in the Willows" and "Take Me Along."
        Off Broadway, Mr. Miller worked with the Manhattan Theater Club, the Circle Repertory Company and the New York Shakespeare Festival. In regional theater, he worked at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., the Long Wharf in New Haven and the Tyrone Guthrie in Minneapolis. At his death, he was creating lighting for the Williamstown Theater Festival production of "A Little Night Music," in Massachusetts. Subtle Effects in Dance
        Mr. Miller was also the resident lighting designer for the dance companies of Laura Dean, Elisa Monte and Lar Lubovitch. He also worked with Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Joffrey Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet and the Royal Danish Ballet.
        A protege of the lighting designer Tom Skelton, Mr. Miller worked in big, bold colors and effects at times, most notably in "Die Frau Ohne Schatten" and Ms. Dean's recent season at the Joyce Theater. But he was also known for the sensitive subtlety of his lighting.
        His cool, gray monochromatic lighting for Mr. Lubovitch's "Cavalcade" made the dancers' waving of orange streamers a stunning final effect. And for the 1983 New York Shakespeare Festival production of Samuel Beckett's "Company," Mr. Miller helped to create the effect of what Mel Gussow, reviewing the play for The New York Times, called "a planetarium setting for an expedition into inner space."
        He is survived by his mother, Mrs. R. Bruce Miller of Overland Park, Kan., and a brother, Jeffrey, of Los Angeles.
      