
        Matthew S. Cohen, an artist, graphic designer and a founder of the Museum of Modern Mythology in San Francisco, died on June 2 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 41.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said Ellen Havre Weis, the museum's executive director.
        The Museum of Modern Mythology was founded in 1982 to display the trademarks and other images of commerce that have become icons of American culture through advertising on television and in print. Its permanent collection of more than 3,000 items includes models of Bibendum, the Michelin Tire Man; Poppin' Fresh, the Pillsbury Doughboy; the Jolly Green Giant; Mister Clean; Mister Peanut; Charlie the Tuna, and Ronald McDonald.
        The nonprofit museum was damaged by the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, which rendered its gallery unsafe. Ms. Weis said that only a few pieces had been lost. The rest are in storage while the museum searches for a new home. Among the requirements is a space large enough to display its 22-foot-high Chicken Boy. Several cities have expressed interest, she said. Artifacts of Mass Culture
        Mr. Cohen and the other museum founders, Ms. Weis and Jeff Errick, said they thought that the ever-present emblems of marketing and advertising were modern myths that reflected both a product's designer and its user. Their aim was to document and preserve the artifacts of mass culture, especially the pantheon of characters that have sprung from American advertising.
        As one of the museum's directors, Mr. Cohen gave conceptual direction, collected pieces and designed exhibitions, imbuing the museum with many of his ideas about the study of signs and symbols, semiotics. Joseph Campbell, the scholar of classic myths and folklore, was on the museum's advisory board until his death in 1987.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Cohen grew up in suburban Philadelphia and trained at the Tyler School of Art at Temple University. He worked in Philadelphia designing covers for jazz albums, industrial graphics and commercial displays until he moved to San Francisco in 1982.
        He is survived by his parents, Manuel and Evelyn Cohen of Elkins Park, Pa., and two sisters, Judith Calder of Brooklyn and Sybil Cohen of Woodbury, N.J.
      