
        Dr. Jerome W. Conn, a medical investigator, teacher and clinician best known for finding the cause of a severe hormonal disturbance and working out a treatment, died last Saturday in Naples, Fla. He was 86 and had lived in Naples since his retirement in 1976.
        Dr. Conn died in a Naples hospital after a brief illness, said a spokesman for the University of Michigan, Bruce Weintraub.
        He is credited with recognizing a disorder called potassium-losing nephritis, a serious kidney disease that had long puzzled endocrinologists. Dr. Conn, then at the University of Michigan Medical School in Ann Arbor, found the hormonal disorder causing the disease in 1953. He called it "primary aldosteronism"; it now is also known as Conn's syndrome. The disorder stems from an adrenal tumor that produces too much aldosterone, a hormone that affects the kidneys and causes the retention of salt and excretion of potassium. Surgical Cure
        Unlike many serious hypertensive diseases, it can be cured completely, if it is recognized early enough, by surgically removing the adrenal tumor. Dr. Conn devised diagnostic techniques that made University Hospital in Ann Arbor an international center for the study and treatment of the disorder and related diseases.
        In 1941, Dr. Conn announced a treatment for Addison's disease, another adrenal abnormality. Addison's disease is a hormonal disorder that affects the balance of substances like salt, potassium, water, sugar and protein. He found that the administration of corticosterone could restore the balance, but the drug had to be taken for the rest of the patient's life.
        In 1948, Dr. Conn caused a stir with a paper reporting that he had succeeded in producing diabetes temporarily by injecting adrenocorticotropin, a pituitary hormone. He wrote that the research had helped highlight "the abnormalities that initiate the diabetic state."
        Jerome Conn was born in Manhattan and graduated from Rutgers University in 1928. He received his M.D. from the University of Michigan in 1932 and spent virtually all his career at Michigan. He directed its Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism from 1943 to 1973. He became the L. H. Newburgh Distinguished University Professor in 1968 and retired in 1973.
        Dr. Conn is survived by a daughter, Yvonne Muller of Durham, N.C.; a son, William, of Ann Arbor; a brother, Harold, of New Haven, and one granddaughter.
      