
        Jeffrey Lawrence, headmaster of the Professional Children's School in Manhattan, which teaches young performers and young people studying or careers in the arts, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 56 and lived on the Upper West Side and in Stony Creek, Conn.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said his companion, Harold S. Spitzer.
        Mr. Lawrence, who was trained as a classical musician, was born in Duncan, Okla. He graduated from the University of Michigan as a voice major with a master's degree in music. He studied music and opera theater at the Manhattan School of Music, graduating with a master's degree. He later earned a third master's in musicology at New York University.
        He began his academic career in 1964 as a lecturer in Music at Hunter College. Three years later, he joined the faculty of N.Y.U.'s Washington Square College as a music instructor. Named Headmaster in 1985
        From 1976 to 1985, Mr. Lawrence was associated with the Rhodes School in Manhattan, serving as a music teacher, chairman of the Performing Arts Department, college adviser and director of admissions. The school has since closed.
        In 1985, he was appointed headmaster of the Professional Children's School, on West 60th Street. It is the country's only fully accredited nonprofit school offering an academic college-preparatoryeducation for those studying for careers in the arts and young performers with special scheduling needs.
        Founded in 1914 for children performing on Broadway and in vaudeville, the school has an enrollment of 200 in grades 4 through 12. Its alumni include Emanuel Ax, Suzanne Farrell, Elliott Gould, Marvin Hamlisch, Ruby Keeler, Sidney Lumet, Yo-Yo Ma, Midori, Leslie Uggams and Pinchas Zuckerman.
        Mr. Lawrence had been a member of the vestry of St. Thomas Church on Fifth Avenue since 1981 and served as secretary of the Guild of Independent Schools.
        Besides Mr. Spitzer, his survivors include his mother, Ruth Lawrence of Duncan, Okla., and a sister, Jo Ellen Ballard of Kirbyville, Tex.
      