
        Henry Heydenryk Jr., patriarch of the American branch of the House of Heydenryk, one of the world's oldest makers of fine picture frames, died on Thursday at the Mary Elizabeth Nursing Home in Mystic, Conn. A resident of Stonington, he was 89.
        The cause of death was a heart attack.
        Known as H.H., he has been called the concertmaster of his trade, and his strong views on how to frame and hang a picture are still widely considered authoritative.
        The House of Heydenryk (pronounced HI-den-rike) was founded in 1845 by his great-grandfather in Amsterdam to rekindle the rich, artistic traditions in framing that marked the days of the Old Masters. It branched out to London and, in 1937, to New York.
        His workshop, on East 76th Street, continues to make frames. It restores and cleans them and paintings ravaged by time or careless owners and mends torn canvas and cracked pigments. It also handles antique frames.  A Consultant
        Over the years, Mr. Heydenryk was a consultant to some of the world's great museums and collections, including the National Gallery of Art. He also framed some of their finest pieces.
        Mr. Heydenryk worked for artists and private owners as well. He framed for modern artists, like Picasso and Salvador Dali. He also framed for the Kennedy White House, Katherine Hepburn, Lauren Bacall, Greta Garbo and Marlene Dietrich and advised them on how to hang their art.
        Under his guidance the New York House of Heydenryk amassed a collection of antique frames dating to the 15th and 16th centuries. It has an inventory of about 4,000 items.
        Mr. Heydenryk was the author of "The Art and History of Frames" (1963) and "The Right Frame" (1964). Published originally by Heineman, each went through several printings and remains in print as trade paperbacks.
        Mr. Heydenryk graduated from the Amsterdam Municipal Commercial School in 1923. He worked for trading and steamship companies, played Dixieland as an amateur jazz musician before coming to the United States in 1927. He spent the next 10 years in the punch-card machines business, but his father eventually prevailed upon him to become the American agent for the House of Heydenryk and to open the New York branch.
        He went into semi-retirement in 1973 and was succeeded by Charles Schreiber as president and manager, but Mr. Heydenryk kept in touch with the business until his health failed him a few years ago.
        He is survived by his wife, Margit Stenderup Heydenryk.
      