
        Frederick A. Praeger, an Austrian immigrant who borrowed $4,000 from friends and founded a major Manhattan publishing house that brought to many Western readers their first incisive views of life under Communism, died on May 28 in Boulder, Colo. Mr. Praeger, who lived in Boulder and died at the Manor Care Nursing Home there, was 78.
        The cause was a stroke, said his daughter, Andrea Praeger.
        The eponymous book company that he founded in Greenwich Village in 1950 evolved into a leader in the fields of international relations, Russian and German history, military science and art.
        Mr. Praeger, who had been an intelligence officer and military government official in Europe during and after World War II, sought out anti-Communist dissidents from the Soviet Union, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Hungary and during the height of the Cold War brought their manuscripts detailing the realities of Communism to the Western reading public.
        Among the more memorable of the company's 2,000 titles were: "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" (1963) by Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn; "The New Class" (1957) by Milovan Djilas; "The Naked God: The Writer and the Communist Party" (1957) by Howard Fast, and "Revolution in China" (1952) by Charles Patrick Fitzgerald. Imprisoned for Book
        The work by Mr. Djilas, a denunciation of Communism written when he was a vice president of Yugoslavia, caused a furor in Eastern Europe and contributed to his eventual imprisonment by the regime of Josip Broz Tito. More than three million copies were printed in various editions.
        The books devoted to painting and architecture in the Praeger World of Art series included "Picasso" (1965) by Frank Elgar and Robert Maillard, and "The Arts and Civilization of Angkor" (1957) by Bernard-Phillippe Groslier.
        In 1966, Mr. Praeger sold the company to William B. Benton, publisher and chairman of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Mr. Praeger severed ties to his former company two years later. He moved to Boulder in 1975 and started Westview Press, which was devoted to scholarly scientific and technical works. The press was sold in 1991 to SCS Communications.
        Mr. Praeger was born into a book publishing family in Vienna. He immigrated to the United States after the forced unification with Germany in 1938, while the other members of his family remained in Austria; they died at Auschwitz.  Returned With Army
        He returned to his birthplace as a lieutenant in the Army during World War II. He stayed on for several years in the American military government before returning to New York in 1948 to open a book exporting company and finally the publishing firm bearing his name.
        Mr. Praeger is survived by his wife, Kellie Masterson of Boulder; four daughters, Claudia Sargent of Cambridge, Mass., Andrea Praeger of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., Manya Praeger of Seattle, and Alexandra Praeger of Chapel Hill, N.C., and four grandchildren.
      