
       G. Edward Pendray, a proponent of the peaceful uses of rocket power and space flight since the 1930's, died of complications from Parkinson's disease Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Jamesburg, N.J.
        G. Edward Pendray, a proponent of the peaceful uses of rocket power and space flight since the 1930's, died of complications from Parkinson's disease Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Jamesburg, N.J.
        In his many early writings and speeches on rocketry, Mr. Pendray envisioned such uses for high-altitude rockets as photography and mapping, mail transport, commercial travel and space exploration.
        ''If shooting rockets across the Atlantic is feasible, there is no obstacle to shooting them to another planet with the moon as a beginner,'' Mr. Pendray said in a 1931 interview.
        Mr. Pendray was born in Nebraska and graduated from the University of Wyoming in 1924. He received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1925 and was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws by the University of Wyoming in 1943. Science Editor at Herald Tribune
        Mr. Pendray joined the staff of The New York Herald Tribune in 1925 as a reporter and later became science editor. After leaving the paper in 1932, he served as an editor for other publications until 1936, when he joined the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company as assistant to the president.
        He helped develop and administer the annual Westinghouse Science Talent Search and was responsible for the time capsule buried at the 1939 New York World's Fair.
        In 1945, he left to open his own industrial public relations firm, Pendray & Company, where he was a senior partner until 1971.
        Mr. Pendray was the founder of the American Rocket Society, which later became incorporated into the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
        The author of several books, including ''The Coming Age of Rocket Power' in 1947, he also sat on the board of directors of the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation and was a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        He is survived by his second wife, Annice; two daughters, Elaine Jennings of Canandaigua, N.Y., and Lynette Wertsch of Baltimore; two stepdaughters, Mary Ann Wallace of Cranbury, N.J., and Barbara Crema of Oceanville, N.J.; a brother, Arthur, of Port Hueneme, Calif.; two sisters, May Earickson of Loveland, Colo., and June Wagoner of Fairbury, Neb.; 10 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      