
       Lindesay Parrott, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times who covered the Pacific theater in World War II and later the Korean War and served as Tokyo bureau chief for 10 years, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86 years old.
        Lindesay Parrott, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times who covered the Pacific theater in World War II and later the Korean War and served as Tokyo bureau chief for 10 years, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Parrott, who joined The Times in 1937, covered the return of Gen. Douglas MacArthur to the Philippines during the American invasion in October 1944. He followed General MacArthur on his campaigns through the Philippines and to Tokyo at the end of the war.
        Mr. Parrott was wounded by shell fragments on Nov. 24, 1944, as American troops moved ashore at Leyte. He was removed by plane, but returned two months later to cover the final stages of the war.
        Following the surrender of the Japanese aboard the battleship Missiouri in 1945, Mr. Parrott reopened The Times bureau in Tokyo. Traveled in Japan
        As bureau chief, he had direct supervision of Times correspondents in the Korean peninsula, providing daily coverage of the war and the cease-fire negotiations. He would open the bureau at 4 each morning - midafternoon in New York - to prepare and forward the copy on the previous day's fighting or negotiations.
        During his 10 years in Japan he traveled from the northern island of Hokkaido to the southern island of Kyushu. He wroted in 1953 that ''these field trips, so necessary to the understanding of a people still in great degree rural, are among the pleasant interludes of a Tokyo correspondent's life.''
        ''Sleep on the floor's straw matting of a village inn,'' he wrote. ''Soybean soup, rice and green tea for breakfast. Crazy! But some of us like it.'' He spoke Japanese, in addition to French, Russian and Italian. New York a 'Sharp Contrast'
        He left Tokyo in December 1955 and came home to New York to report from the United Nations. He wrote of his move from the Far East to the East River, ''There is a sharp contrast between the polite chitchat of the United Nations and the harsh realities of the Korean War or a Japan where most of the inhabitants still must spend about 70 percent of their incomes just for food to stay alive.''
        However, he noted, ''anyone who thinks of the Japanese as a slow-moving people should take a look at the rush hours'' in Tokyo. ''Times Square can't match it.''
        Mr. Parrott was born July 26, 1901, in Edinburgh, Scotland. He attended schools in England and Switzerland, the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey, and Princeton University, where he graduated in 1921. His father, Dr. Thomas Marc Parrott, was a professor of English at Princeton for 39 years.
        Mr. Parrott's first newspaper job was with The Newark Evening News. He then moved to The New York Evening Post, for which he covered the Lindbergh kidnapping. Covered Sale of His Paper
        From The Post he went to The Morning World. His last story there was about the sale of the newspaper, the lead story in its last issue.
        Between the demise of The World and joining The Times, Mr. Parrott workd for the International News Service. He headed that organization's bureaus in Moscow, in Rome during Mussolini's war in Ethiopia, and finally in Paris.
        Mr. Parrott's last story for The Times, on May 26, 1961, was written from the United Nations on a crisis in the Belgian Congo.
        Following his retirement from The Times in 1961, Mr. Parrott moved to his 50-acre farm at Bradford, Vt. Several years later he moved to Arlington.
        He is survived by his son, Lindesay Marc Parrott, of Honolulu, two grandsons and one great-grandson.
      