
       Charles Harris Wesley, one of the nation's most eminent black scholars, died Aug. 16 at Howard University Hospital in Washington after a long illness with pneumonia. He was 95 years old.
        Charles Harris Wesley, one of the nation's most eminent black scholars, died Aug. 16 at Howard University Hospital in Washington after a long illness with pneumonia. He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Wesley wrote a number of works that broke ground in the writing of black history. His doctoral dissertation, ''Negro Labor in the United States 1850 to 1925: A Study in American Economic History,'' was considered the first scholarly examination of the black labor force in the period after slavery. When it was published in 1925, The New York Times called it ''a valuable contribution to the economic history of the United States.''
        He wrote a dozen books on black history, specializing in the 1930's in studies of slavery and emancipation in the British West Indies. Just before his death he was preparing two more books.
        He was born in Louisville, Ky., and graduated from Fisk University in 1911. At 19 he was awarded a graduate fellowship at Yale University, where he waited on tables to earn his board while completing his master's degree in 1913. In 1920 he received his doctorate from Harvard and accepted a position at Howard University.
        For the next 20 years Mr. Wesley served at Howard as professor, dean of the liberal arts college and finally as dean of the liberal arts graduate school. He was also active in the African Methodist Episcopal Church.
        In 1942 he accepted the presidency of Wilberforce University in Ohio, where he served for five years before leaving to help establish Central State University, also in Ohio. He was president of Central State for 18 years before ending his teaching career.
        He continued to write. ''Neglected History'' appeared in 1965, and ''Collapse of the Confederacy,'' published in 1930, was reissued in 1968. He also wrote numerous scholarly articles and edited the International Library on Negro Life and History and the Negro History Bulletin.
        In 1974, at the age of 82, Mr. Wesley came out of retirement to become the first director of the Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum in Philadelphia.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Dorothy Porter; one daughter, Charlotte Wesley Holloman of Washington; one stepdaughter, Constance Porter Uzelac of Santa Marina, Calif.; and a grandchild. Mr. Wesley's first wife, the former Louise Johnson, died in 1973. He also had a daughter, Louise J. Wesley, who died in 1950.
        CHARLES WESLEY IS DEAD AT 95
      