
       Irving Lang, a senior judge of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Irving Lang, a senior judge of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Justice Lang was appointed to the Criminal Court in 1969 by Mayor John V. Lindsay. He was promoted to Acting Justice of State Supreme Court three years later, the post he held at the time of his death.
        Justice Lang's 18 years on the bench followed 15 years of legal work as a narcotics expert to Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, as a prosecutor under District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan and as a Legal Aid Society defense lawyer in Criminal Court.
        Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, called Justice Lang ''a fair, talented and impartial judge.''
        In recent years, the most publicized of the thousands of cases that came before Justice Lang was the 1982 trial of Jack Henry Abbott, the convict-author and literary protege of Norman Mailer. An Informal Manner
        Mr. Abbott, who had spent 25 of the 26 previous years in jail, was convicted of manslaughter in the fatal stabbing of a waiter in the East Village after a three-week trial.
        Irving Lang, a short, stocky man of informal manner who occasionally dispensed with his judicial robe when on the bench, was born March 13, 1929, in Brooklyn, the son of Anna and Morris Lang.
        After attending elementary and public schools in Brooklyn, Justice Lang entered Columbia University in 1945, earning his undergraduate degree in 1949 and his law degree in 1952.
        He was editor of The Columbia Spectator, which may explain why, years later as a judge, he would frequently drop in to talk with reporters in the press room in the cavernous Criminal Courts building on Centre Street.
        A two-year stint in the Army, where he rose to sergeant as a defense counsel in courts-martial, was followed by two years as a Legal Aid lawyer defending the indigent in the city's criminal courts. Helped Rockefeller
        In 1956, he joined Mr. Hogan's staff. Over the next 10 years, he prosecuted cases involving extortion, homicide, official corruption and narcotics, eventually rising to chief of the narcotics bureau.
        In 1966, after helping to draft Mr. Rockefeller's tough anti-narcotics program, Justice Lang was named chief counsel of the State Narcotic Addiction Control Commission, and two years later a commissioner on the panel.
        Besides his mother, he is survived by his wife, Judith; a daughter, Tamar Deborah Lang, and a son, David Benjamin.
        IRVING LANG DIES
      