
       Emlyn Williams, the Welsh actor, playwright and director who wrote many hit plays, including ''Night Must Fall'' and ''The Corn Is Green,'' both of which he starred in, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 81 years old.
        Emlyn Williams, the Welsh actor, playwright and director who wrote many hit plays, including ''Night Must Fall'' and ''The Corn Is Green,'' both of which he starred in, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Williams, who carved out a new career in mid-life touring the world in his one-man show, ''Emlyn Williams as Charles Dickens,'' underwent surgery for cancer recently.
        Mr. Williams, who came from a poor Welsh family, directed his fellow Welshman Richard Burton in his first film, and years later toured in a one-man show based on the works of another Welshman, Dylan Thomas. In recent years he had been in ill health and in semi-retirement, but he appeared in occasional television roles.
        He was a master at writing vivid roles for actors, such as that of the indomitable schoolteacher Miss Moffat of ''The Corn Is Green.'' It won raves for Sybil Thorndike, with whom Mr. Williams co-starred as Morgan Evans, on the London stage. The role became one of Ethel Barrymore's most memorable when she appeared in the play on Broadway and on tour, and it was as Miss Moffat that Bette Davis scored one of her major film triumphs. Katharine Hepburn revived the role in a 1979 television movie and she, too, received lavish praise as Miss Moffat. Played Killer Bellhop
        Similarly, the role of the psychopathic killer Danny in Mr. Williams's macabre thriller, ''Night Must Fall,'' his first great success as a playwright and actor, won critical acclaim for him on both the London and Broadway stages. Robert Montgomery was extavagantly praised for his movie Danny, and, 20 years later, Albert Finney gave a tour-de-force performance in a movie re-make, although the film itself was a failure.
        Mr. Williams wrote more than two-dozen plays, adaptations of plays, screenplays and books, including two memoirs, and he became a first novelist, at the age of 75, with ''Headlong.''
        After he became a success as a playwright, he preferred not to perform in the works of others, but was commended for his ''Richard III,'' at the Old Vic, and for his role as Pope Pius XII in Paul Hochhuth's play, ''The Deputy,'' and as Sir Thomas More in ''A Man for All Seasons,'' both on Broadway.
        No stranger to the movies, Mr. Williams made his film debut in 1932 in ''The Frightened Lady'' and also appeared in Alfred Hitchcock's ''Man Who Knew Too Much'' (1933), ''Broken Blossoms,'' for which he also wrote the screenplay in 1936, ''The Citadel'' (1938), ''Jamaica Inn'' and ''The Stars Look Down'' in 1939, as Snobby Price in ''Major Barbara'' (1941), ''Ivanhoe'' (1952) and ''The L-Shaped Room'' (1962).
        In 1948, he wrote, directed and starred in ''The Last Days of Dolwyn,'' about a Welsh village threatened by a dam construction project. The film marked Richard Burton's movie debut.
        Mr. Williams, named George Emlyn Williams at his birth on Nov. 26, 1905, in Mostyn, a small coal-mining village in Flintshire, North Wales, was the son of Richard and Mary (Williams) Williams. He spoke nothing but Welsh until he was 8 years old, but early showed a talent for languages and wound up with a scholarship - in French - to Christ Church, Oxford. A Coal Miner's Son
        Mr. Williams said he would most probably have started working in the coal mines with his father at age 12, like most boys he knew, had he not attracted the approving attention of Miss S. G. Cook, a social worker from London, who set up a school in Mostyn in 1915. She saw talent in the young boy, helped him perfect his English, and for the next seven years guided him in his ambition to be a teacher. She got him a scholarship to study French in Switzerland for a time, and when he was 17 wangled him the scholarship to Oxford.
        There, he saw his first play, Somerset Maugham's ''Camel's Back,'' and ''by next day knew that my future would be the theater,'' he said, adding that ''I'm Welsh, and the theater is one of the fundamental instincts of my people.''
        While still an undergraduate, his first play, ''Full Moon,'' was produced by the Oxford University Dramatic Society. It was directed by J. B. Fagan, who in 1927 gave the budding playwright a backstage job and a supporting part in ''And So to Bed.''
        Mr. Williams made his first trip to New York to appear in the play, then spent three struggling years back in London. His first recognition as a playwright came in 1930, with ''A Murder Has Been Arranged'' and his first success as an actor came in 1931 when he starred in the Edgar Wallace mystery ''The Case of the Frightened Lady'' on Broadway and in the movie version in 1932.
        His reputation as a playwright and actor was established in 1935 with ''Night Must Fall,'' in which he played a psychopathic bellhop who murders a woman and carries her head around in a hatbox. He played the role in New York, and on his return to England co-starred briefly with Sir John Gielgud in another Williams play, ''He Was Born Gay.'' Thereafter, he joined the Old Vic Repertory Theater and was in several plays, including ''Measure for Measure'' and Ibsen's ''Ghosts.'' Film About Mentor
        In September 1938, his next great success, the autobiographical ''The Corn is Green,'' based on his experiences with his devoted schoolteacher, Miss Cook, opened in London. But not before he had sent her the playscript and asked that she delete anything she found irksome. ''She replied that she thought it was a fine piece of work, but couldn't understand how anyone would be interested in the life of a schoolteacher,'' he said.
        In ''Emlyn,'' the second of his ''early biographies,'' covering the years 1927 to 1935, published in 1974, Mr. Williams devoted much space to the sexual frustrations that coincided with the writing of his first successful plays. He was, he said, for a time ''wildly asexual, then homosexual and bisexual,'' and finally settled down and married Molly O'Shann, who died in 1970. They had two sons.
        Mr. Williams kept busy, writing and acting, creating the role of Sir Robert Morton in Terence Rattigan's ''Winslow Boy'' in 1946 and appearing on Broadway in Lillian Hellman's ''Monserrat,'' in 1949. On his return to London in 1950 he began work on what was to become a whole new career, the devising of ''Emlyn Williams as Charles Dickens.'' In the years that followed he was to take the one-man show from London to New York and on to Geneva, Berlin, Zurich, Copenhagen, North and South America, South Africa, Australia, and the Soviet Union.
        In the Dickens piece, he tried to duplicate one of Dickens's own readings, with which the 19th century author himself toured Britain and the United States. Dressed in Victorian attire and wearing a beard cut in the Dickens manner, he used a lectern copied from the one Dickens designed for himself. ''I am playing the people in the stories as I imagine Dickens would have played them - playing them through him,'' he said.
      