
       Michael Stewart, who won Tony Awards as the author of the Broadway musical hits ''Bye Bye Birdie'' in 1961 and ''Hello, Dolly!'' in 1964, died of pneumonia early yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Michael Stewart, who won Tony Awards as the author of the Broadway musical hits ''Bye Bye Birdie'' in 1961 and ''Hello, Dolly!'' in 1964, died of pneumonia early yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Between 1953, when he earned a Master of Fine Arts degree in drama from Yale University, until his death, Mr. Stewart was a prolific writer of books and lyrics for the musical theater, often with Mark Bramble, his partner since 1974. In recent years, Mr. Stewart had major successes with ''I Love My Wife'' (1977), for which he wrote the book and lyrics to the music of Cy Coleman; ''Barnum'' (1980), for which he wrote the lyrics to Mr. Bramble's book and Mr. Coleman's music, and ''42d Street,'' co-written with Mr. Bramble to the songs of Harry Warren and Al Dubin.
        Last year, a musical version of ''Treasure Island,'' written by Mr. Stewart and the composer Jule Styne, had its premiere in Edmonton, Alberta.
        ''He was an extremely talented and knowledgeable man of the theater,'' Mr. Styne said yesterday. ''He was one of the great musical-theater writers, and his string of hits showed that.''
        ''This is the end of an era in my life,'' Mr. Bramble said. ''Michael Stewart and I were great collaborators. I was a little bolder than him, but Mike brought a wonderful sense of form and structure to his work.'' Inspired by Porter
        Mr. Stewart was born on Aug. 1, 1924, in Manhattan and grew up in Jamaica, Queens. He attended Queens College before enrolling at the Yale School of Drama. He told friends that he decided to write for the theater when, as a 10-year-old, he had gone with his family to see Ethel Merman in the Cole Porter musical ''Anything Goes.''
        In 1951, Mr. Stewart's sketches were featured in ''Razzle Dazzle,'' a revue at the Edison Hotel. After Yale, Mr. Stewart wrote sketches for three more popular shows. ''The Shoestring Revue,'' in 1955, featured such rising young talents as Beatrice Arthur, Chita Rivera and Arte Johnson. That was followed by ''The Littlest Revue'' and ''Shoestring '57.'' He then joined a staff that included Neil Simon and his brother, Danny, Carl Reiner, Mel Brooks and others to write Sid Caesar's ''Your Show of Shows.''
        Mr Stewart met the composer Charles Strouse and the lyricist Lee Adams in 1954. A few years later, they began collaborating on ''Let's Go Steady,'' a musical that strove to capture the spirit of a generation spellbound by Elvis Presley. With Gower Champion directing a cast that included Dick Van Dyke, Miss Rivera and Paul Lynde, the show went through several transformations, including a change of title to ''The Day They Took Birdie Away.'' The show opened in New York in 1960 with the title ''Bye Bye Birdie.'' Mr. Champion, Mr. Strouse, Mr. Adams and Mr. Stewart all won Tony Awards for their contributions. The following year, Mr. Stewart and Mr. Champion worked together on ''Carnival,'' which won the New York Drama Critics Circle award. 'No Recognition'
        Mr. Stewart's next show was an even greater success than ''Birdie.'' Working again with Mr. Champion and, this time, the composer Jerry Herman, Mr. Stewart wrote a musical adaptation of Thornton Wilder's play ''The Matchmaker.'' ''Hello, Dolly!,'' produced by David Merrick, opened at the St. James Theater on Jan. 16, 1964, and has been a staple of the musical-theater canon ever since.
        Mr. Stewart often bemoaned the fact that musical-book writers did not get the kind of appreciation accorded composers and lyricists. ''I don't know why any bright person would want to be a musical-book writer,'' he said in an article in The New York Times in 1979. ''You're scorned by critics, you get no recognition from the public, and the money isn't that good, either. I feel I've written two classic American musicals - 'Birdie' and 'Dolly' - but both books got terrible reviews.''
        Ironically, one book for which Mr. Stewart did win a strong critical response was the 1974 ''Mack and Mabel'' - another collaboration with Mr. Herman - which ran for just 65 performances. In the 1980 ''42d Street,'' Mr. Merrick credited Mr. Stewart and Mr. Bramble only for writing ''lead-ins and crossovers,'' rather than the book for the musical.
        Among the other shows for which Mr. Stewart wrote the book, the lyrics or both were ''George M.'' (1968), ''The Grand Tour'' (1979) and ''Harrigan 'n Hart'' (1985). In 1981, ''Bring Back Birdie'' failed to rekindle the excitement set off by the earlier show. In 1984, ''Elizabeth and Essex,'' which Mr. Stewart and Mr. Bramble adapted from Maxwell Anderson's ''Elizabeth the Queen,'' was an Off Broadway succes d'estime.
        Mr. Stewart is survived by his mother, Kate Rubin; a brother, Burt, and a sister, Francine Pascal, all of Manhattan.
        A memorial service will be held tomorrow at 2 P.M. at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 333 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street.
      