
       H. R. Gross, a United States Representative from Iowa for 26 years, died Tuesday night in the Veteran's Adminstration Hospital in Washington, D.C., of complications from Alzheimer's disease. He was 88 years old.
        H. R. Gross, a United States Representative from Iowa for 26 years, died Tuesday night in the Veteran's Adminstration Hospital in Washington, D.C., of complications from Alzheimer's disease. He was 88 years old.
        A conservative Republican whose career spanned the terms of six Presidents, Mr. Gross was widely known for his tight-fisted approach to fiscal matters and his strong isolationist views on foreign policy.
        ''His committment and tenacity earned him a legendary reputation as watchdog of the Treasury,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who succeeded Mr. Gross when he retired from his Third District seat in 1975.
        Mr. Gross often began his speeches with the question, ''How much will this boondoggle cost?'' He once startled his colleagues on the House floor by questioning the use of Federal funds to pay for the gas consumed by the eternal flame on the grave of John F. Kennedy. Opposed 'Double-Dipping'
        In the early 1960's he took an early stand against ''double-dipping,'' the practice of retired service personnel getting a military pension and another Federal paycheck. He opposed restoring former President Dwight D. Eisenhower to his generalship unless Congress stipulated that he would only receive his Presidential pension and not a general's salary also.
        His foreign policy stances often reflected his anti-Communist zeal and isolationism. He opposed Preident Kennedy's creation of the Peace Corps, calling it a ''haven for draft dodgers'' beacuse its members would have been exempt for the selective service process.
        He frequently opposed appropriations for the United Nations. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee in 1963, he was a vocal critic of the Kennedy Adminstration's foreign policy. He tried to block the sale of grain to the Soviet Union. He appeared on national televison with four other legislators demanding stronger measures to get Russian troops out of Cuba.
        Harold Royce Gross was born in on his parents' 240-acre farm in Arispe, Iowa, in 1899. He was educated in the region's rural schools and joined the First Iowa Field Artillery as a teen-ager. He served in the Mexican border campaign in 1916 and in France in World War I. Background in Journalism After the war he attended Iowa State College and the University of Missouri School of Journalism. He spent 13 years working on various small newspapers. In 1935 he became a radio news commentator, working for stations in Des Moines and Waterloo. Thoughout his broadcasting career he was known as the ''fastest tongue in radio.''
        In 1948 he challenged John W. Gwynne, the Republican incumbent, for renomination from the third district. He won the primary without the help of the party organization and went on to victory in the general election.
        He is survived by Hazel Webster Gross, his wife of 58 years, and by two sons, Phil, a lawyer of McLean, Va., and Alan, an Army colonel of Alexandria, Va. Other survivors include a brother, Sidney L. Gross of Osceola, Iowa, and a sister, Lillian Underwood of Oxnard, Calif., two grandsons and many nieces and nephews.
        A funeral is scheduled for Friday afternoon in Fort Meyer Chapel in Arlington Cemetery.
        H.R. GROSS IS DEAD
      