
       Lord Soames, who as Britain's last colonial Governor in Rhodesia presided over its transition to majority rule as Zimbabwe, died today at his family home in Hampshire. He was 66 years old. Lord Soames, a son-in-law of Sir Winston Churchill, had suffered a series of heart ailments and underwent surgery to remove an abdominal obstruction this year.
        Lord Soames, who as Britain's last colonial Governor in Rhodesia presided over its transition to majority rule as Zimbabwe, died today at his family home in Hampshire. He was 66 years old. Lord Soames, a son-in-law of Sir Winston Churchill, had suffered a series of heart ailments and underwent surgery to remove an abdominal obstruction this year.
        He had a long and varied career of public service, serving as a soldier, Conservative politician and diplomat. His four-month stint as Governor of Rhodesia in the difficult months leading to up to elections and its independence in 1980 was his greatest achievement in public life, a task considered one of the most challenging in Britain's lengthy process of decolonization.
        Yet Lord Soames was credited with many other successes in his long political and diplomatic career. For example, he played a vital role in insuring Britain's entry into the European Economic Community as Ambassador to France from 1968 to 1972. A Taste for Wry Humor
        Lord Soames was a stout, balding man with mannerisms that some found imperious. In a conversation about him, Iain Macleod was once asked, ''What lies behind that incredibly bluff exterior?'' Mr. Macleod, who once served in the Cabinet with Lord Soames, reportedly pondered the question for a minute, then replied, ''Behind that incredibly bluff exterior lies an incredibly bluff interior.''
        But close friends described him as serious in public yet often lighthearted and playful in private, a bon vivant with a taste for good wine and wry humor.
        Soon after his family announced Lord Soames's death this afternoon, tributes poured in from leading figures in the British Government and former colleagues. ''He gave a lifetime of unrivaled service to the country as a member of successive governments and Governor of Rhodesia during the transition to independence,'' Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said tonight. ''He was a towering personality and he will be very greatly missed.''
        Lord Carrington, Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Foreign Secretary when Lord Soames was dispatched to Rhodesia, said, ''He did a job there that I don't think anyone else could have done.''
        Dr. Herbert Murerwa, Zimbabwe's Ambassador to London, called Lord Soames's death ''a very sad loss,'' noting that ''he played a very significant and honorable part in the establishment of Zimbabwe.'' A Delicate Posting
        After talks in London in 1979 produced an agreement between Rhodesia's white leaders and black guerrillas to return to British colonial status in preparation for majority rule, Mrs. Thatcher sent Lord Soames to Rhodesia as Governor to preside over the transition.
        Though a seasoned diplomat, he had no African experience, assuring that he was not identified with any of the factions in the Rhodesian conflict. But it assured little else, and the posting was considered delicate and risky. The Rhodesian issue had been one of Britain's most nettlesome foreign policy issues since Ian D. Smith's unrecognized declaration of independence 14 years earlier.
        With a force of 1,200 soldiers from Britain and other Commonwealth countries, Lord Soames had to rely mostly on his considerable skills of persuasion, bluster and charm to oversee the election campaign. Despite factional violence and intimidation, the elections proceeded, with Robert Mugabe, a left-leaning nationalist, emerging as the Prime Minister.
        Arthur Christopher John Soames was born on Oct. 12, 1920, the son of a Buckinghamshire landowner. He was educated at Eton and at the Royal Military College at Sandhurst, where he won a commission in the Coldstream Guards shortly before World War II broke out.
        He served in Italy, France and North Africa during the war, winning the French Croix de Guerre at El Alamein. After the war, he was sent to British Embassy in Paris as an assistant military attache. There, in 1946, he met Mary Churchill, the youngest of the five Churchill children, and they were married within a year. 'A Moving Relationship'
        In her best-selling biography of her mother, Clementine Churchill, Lady Soames recalled that ''from their very first meeting my father and Christopher took to each other.'' Lady Soames described the friendship between her father and her husband as ''a warm, a moving relationship, which grew in affection and trust.''
        ''It had an enormous effect on Christopher's personality and life. And if my father gave much to Christopher, Christopher also was able to bring the breath of fresh air from outside.''
        Mr. Soames, undoubtedly helped by his family connections, got a fast start in politics, first winning a seat in the House of Commons when he was 29 years old. He held his seat in Bedfordshire, northwest of London, for the Conservatives for 16 years, until 1966. In 1952, he became parliamentary private secretary to Sir Winston when he was returned to 10 Downing St. Later, he held junior ministerial posts before he entered the Cabinet in 1960 as Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
        Mr. Soames was knighted in 1973 and made a life peer in 1978. From 1979 to 1981, he was leader of the House of Lords. Lord Soames was removed from
        Mrs. Thatcher's Cabinet in what has been called the ''purge of 1981.'' Since 1979, Mrs. Thatcher has steadily removed the more liberal ''wets'' from the Cabinet, with the landed aristocrats and old Etonians like Lord Soames among the first to go.
        Lord Soames is survived by his wife and three sons and two daughters. Funeral arrangements were not announced.
        LORD SOAMES DIES
      