
       Howard Moss, a poet who for almost 40 years was the poetry editor of The New Yorker, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. Mr. Moss was 65 years old.
        Howard Moss, a poet who for almost 40 years was the poetry editor of The New Yorker, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. Mr. Moss was 65 years old.
        ''He was a tremendous force for poetry in this country,'' said Galway Kinnell, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet. ''He was often accused of publishing 'The New Yorker poem,' but as a matter of fact the variety and quality of poems he published was astonishing. I don't know any pure literary magazine that has had as consistent a quality of poetry as The New Yorker under Howard Moss.''
        With only two published poems to his name, Mr. Kinnell submitted a poem directly to Mr. Moss, whom he did not know, and the editor telephoned and said he was going to publish it. Many other prominent poets published their early work with Mr. Moss, including James Dickey, James Scully, Anne Sexton, Theodore Roethke, L. E. Sissman, Richard Wilbur, Sylvia Plath and Mark Strand.
        Mr. Moss did not hesitate to suggest changes or revisions. ''The words in poems are no more sacred than words in anything else,'' he told Publishers Weekly in 1973. ''I will often make suggestions on changes, cuts, different punctuation. I would never edit without the approval of the author, but I feel quite free to make suggestions for improvement if we are seriously interested in his work. Think of what Pound did for Eliot, after all.'' Poetry for a General Audience
        Not only does The New Yorker pay well, in contrast to most other magazines that publish poetry, but it is an important showcase as well. ''Most poetry magazines are 90 percent read by poets,'' Mr. Kinnell said, ''but the poems in The New Yorker are read by many people who don't buy the magazine for its poetry, including people who just open it and read it in a doctor's or dentist's office.''
        In part to encourage poets, Mr. Moss invariably bought more poems than the magazine could publish. ''If only I could get all the poems I wanted to buy into print promptly,'' he said, ''without being haunted by the thought of all the ones waiting to be published.''
        When Mr. Moss took a year's leave of absence from the magazine in the fall of 1972, at which time the backlog of poems stood at 130, the magazine stopped considering new poetry submissions for that year.
        Mr. Moss was 24 years old when he published ''The Wound and the Weather,'' the first of 12 volumes of poems. He also published four books of criticism and two plays, and he edited several volumes of poetry, a collection of short stories written by poets and an anthology, ''New York: Poems.'' Won Many Honors
        His volume ''Selected Poems,'' published in 1971, won the National Book Award. His most recent collection, ''New Selected Poems,'' won the Lenore Marshall-National Prize for Poetry in 1986, the same year in which he received the Academy of American Poets fellowship for ''distinguished poetic achievement.'' In 1971 he was elected to the National Institute of Arts and Letters, the nation's foremost honor society of fine arts.
        ''He was an extraordinary poet,'' said Harry Ford, a senior editor at Alfred A. Knopf, who, while at Atheneum Publishers, edited Mr. Moss's last seven volumes. ''From the very beginning he had a sense of his own worth as a poet, and it came through.'' Mr. Moss dedicated ''New Selected Poems'' to Mr. Ford, who said yesterday that Mr. Moss had a new volume of poetry ''pretty near to completion,'' and Knopf would probably publish it.
        Mr. Moss was born in Manhattan on Jan. 22, 1922, and was graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1943. He taught English at Vassar College for a year before joining The New Yorker in 1948 as a fiction editor. Two years later he asked Harold Ross if he could edit the poetry, and he remained poetry editor until his death.
        Mr. Moss is survived by two newphews, Richard Evans and Daniel Evans, both of Manhattan, and a niece, Anne Simmons of Lexington, Mass.
        The funeral will be at noon on Friday at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street.
      