
       Gen. J. Lawton Collins, a combat leader in World War IIa former Army Chief of Staff, died Saturday at his home of cardiac arrest. He was 91 years old.
        Gen. J. Lawton Collins, a combat leader in World War IIa former Army Chief of Staff, died Saturday at his home of cardiac arrest. He was 91 years old.
        The New Orleans native had his first military service with the occupation forces in Germany after World War I. He won the nickname ''Lightning Joe'' when he commanded a division early in World War II on Guadalcanal. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower selected him to lead one of the two Army corps that landed at Normandy on D-Day, June 6, 1944. His VII corps, part of Gen. Omar Bradley's First Army, then led the breakout from Normandy at St. Lo.
        General Bradley later called him ''one of the most outstanding field commanders in Europe'' for his leadership in battles across France, Belgium and Germany. Won a Silver Star
        When he received the Silver Star for achievement at Guadalcanal, one of his many honors, the citation accompanying the presentation said General Collins had ''walked through some 800 yards of recently captured ground infested with enemy snipers.
        ''His example and the word of praise and encouragement with which he continually encouraged the men contributed materially to the success of the offensive operations.''
        After the war, he was deputy commanding general and chief of staff of the Army Ground Forces, director of information of the War Department, deputy chief of staff and vice chief of staff.
        President Truman named him to succeed General Bradley as Chief of Staff in 1949 after General Bradley became chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In the tumultuous period leading to President Truman's decision to relieve Gen. Douglas MacArthur from command in the Far East, General MacArthur communicated with the administration in Washington through General Collins.
        General Collins's tenure as Chief of Staff ended in August 1953. Over the next two years, before he retired in 1956, his posts included service as special envoy to Vietnam. At Anniversary Ceremonies
        In 1957, he became vice chairman of the board of Pfizer International subsidiaries, and in 1984 he was President Reagan's personal representative at the Normandy ceremonies commemorating the 40th anniversary of D-Day.
        General Collins's honors included three Distinguished Service Medals and two Silver Stars. His foreign honors included the British Companion of the Order of the Bath; Russian Order of Suvorov, second class; French Legion of Honor, Degree of Office, and the Belgian Order of Leopold II, Grand Officer.
        J. Lawton Collins, the second youngest of 11 children, was born May 1, 1896, the son of an Irish native who joined the Union Army in the Civil War at the age of 16. He graduated from West Point in 1917. In 1919, he was sent to command a battalion of the 18th Infantry at Koblenz, Germany.
        He is survived by his wife, Gladys, whom he married in 1921; a son, Col. Joseph E. Collins of the Army, retired, of Lewiston, Idaho; two daughters, Gladys Stenger of Potomac, Md., and Nancy Rubino, of Bethesda, Md.; 17 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
        He is to be buried Wednesday at Arlington National Cemetery after a Mass of Christian Burial at the Fort Myer Chapel, all in Virginia.
      