
       Charles W. Nichols Jr., a retired engineering executive and prominent philanthropist, died at his home yesterday after a long illness. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Charles W. Nichols Jr., a retired engineering executive and prominent philanthropist, died at his home yesterday after a long illness. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Nichols retired in 1973 as chairman of the Nichols Engineering and Research Corporation when it merged with the Neptune International Corporation, an engineering and manufacturing concern. He had been with the Nichols concern, which was started by his father in Manhattan, since 1933.
        He was a director of the Allied Chemical Corporation and its successor, Allied-Signal Inc., for 31 years until his retirement last April. At that time Allied-Signal named its new $40 million corporate research center in Morris Township, N.J., in honor of him.
        Edward L. Hennessy Jr., Allied-Signal's chairman, said at the dedication that Mr. Nichols's experience as an engineer and businessman had contributed to the company's growth.
        Mr. Nichols was born in Brooklyn. He attended the Choate School and Williams College and soon after joined the Nichols engineering concern. After the merger with Neptune, Mr. Nichols became a director of Neptune and chairman of its executive committee.
        He was also president of the Nichols Foundation, vice chairman of the board of trustees of New York University, honorary chairman of the board of the New York Zoological Society, chairman emeritus of the Cooperative Social Settlement Society (Greenwich House) and a trustee of the Animal Medical Center.
        His marriage in 1934 to the former Marjorie Huntington Jones ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Dr. Marguerite Prince Sykes; two sons, C. Walter 3d, of Katonah, N.Y., and David, of London; a daughter, Joan Rizzo of Manhattan; a sister, Kathleen Van Pelt of Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla., and 10 grandchildren.
      