
        Marion Williams, a pioneering gospel singer, died on Saturday at the Albert Einstein Medical Institute in Philadelphia. She was 66 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The cause was vascular disease, said her record producer, Anthony Heilbut.
        Miss Williams was a flamboyant singer who put her songs across with pure sustained tones, swooping phrases and deep growls. Her influence was heard throughout gospel music and in secular music as well. Little Richard has said her octave-leaping high whoops were the source for his vocals in "Tutti Frutti" and other songs, and Aretha Franklin recorded Miss Williams's two biggest hits, "Packin' Up" and "Surely God Is Able." Miss Williams performed in churches, at concerts and in nightclubs, and in 1993 she received a MacArthur Foundation grant and was a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors.
        "When I'm singing, I get inspired by God," she said in a 1980 interview with The New York Times. "I call it 'the anointing.' It's an extra-special thing. When the inspiration of God is missing, I just rely on talent." In Church and on Broadway
        Miss Williams was born in Miami in 1927 and grew up singing in sanctified churches, although she was also exposed to blues and jazz. In 1947 she joined the Clara Ward Singers, the preeminent gospel group of the 1950's, and soon became the lead singer. In 1958 she and other members of the Ward Singers started their own group, the Stars of Faith, and in 1961 they appeared on Broadway in "Black Nativity," a gospel musical by Langston Hughes.
        Miss Williams began performing as a soloist in the mid-1960's, appearing at churches and colleges and touring the world. In 1966 the State Department sponsored her tour of Africa. She recorded for Savoy, Vee Jay, Columbia and Atlantic Records from the 1950's through the 1970's. In 1976, her album "Prayer Changes Things" won a Grand Prix du Disque in France.
        In 1980, she made her first appearance in a club serving alcohol, singing a celebrated long engagement at the Cookery in Greenwich Village. From the mid-1980's onward, she made albums for Spirit Feel Records. She was active at the B. M. Oakley Memorial Church of God in Christ, in Philadelphia, as both a church mother and an occasional performer.
        Miss Williams began to undergo dialysis regularly in 1988, but she continued to perform. In December 1991 she sang "Amazing Grace" in a Public Broadcasting Service program about the song. She appeared in the 1992 film "Fried Green Tomatoes," which was dedicated to her, and was the guest soloist in 1992 for the premiere of Wynton Marsalis's gospel-influenced jazz suite "In This House/On This Morning." On April 28 this year, she was inducted into the Philadelphia Walk of Fame.
        Miss Williams is survived by her son, Robin, of Philadelphia; a brother, Isaac, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
      