
        Robert Rodriguez, a leader of New York's Hispanic community and former New York City Councilman from East Harlem-South Bronx, died on Sunday at the apartment of a friend in Albany. Mr. Rodriguez was 43.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Albany County Coroner's office said. Mr. Rodriguez, who had been working for the State Department of Civil Service in Albany, was using the apartment of the friend, State Assemblyman Angelo Del Toro, a Democrat of Manhattan, while Mr. Del Toro was in New York City during the legislative recess.
        At his death, Mr. Rodriguez was overseeing affirmative-action and diversity programs in state agencies for the Department of Civil Service. He joined the department 14 months ago to direct its Division of Diversity, Planning and Management.
        Mr. Rodriguez had been active in community affairs in Manhattan, serving on the boards of Community School District No. 4, Metropolitan Hospital Center, the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, the East Harlem district of the Boy Scouts of America and the Edwin Gould Services for Children Foundation. He was a past chairman of the Community Mental Health Center, a Democratic district leader and a member of Community Planning Board No. 11 in East Harlem.
        In 1979 he was a coordinator in New York's Hispanic community for Jimmy Carter's Presidential campaign.
        Mr. Rodriguez was a member of the City Council from 1978 to 1982. He lost the Democratic primary that year to Carolyn B. Maloney, now a member of Congress.
        He graduated from Alfred E. Smith High School in the Bronx and studied history at Nyack College. Before his election to the City Council, he was a senior employment consultant for the State Department of Labor's Equal Employment Opportunity Office in Manhattan.
        More recently, he was director of labor relations in the city's Fire Department and chief of staff for Assemblyman Jose Serrano, after which he held executive positions at the SCS Business and Technical Institute in Manhattan and with the state's Hispanic Housing and Economic Development Task Force.
        Mr. Rodriguez's survivors include his wife, Edith Delerme Rodriguez; his parents, Carmen and Juan Rodriguez; two sons, Robert J. and Jonathan R., and a daughter, Tina Rasheen, all of New York City.
      