
        Walter Clemons, a book critic and writer who was on the staff of Newsweek in the 1970's and 80's, died yesterday morning in his house in Long Island City, Queens. He was 64.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said Bernard X. Wolff, a friend, who found Mr. Clemons's body.
        Mr. Clemons was with Newsweek from 1971-82 and from 1983-88. In those years, he was an editor, a book critic and a senior writer; he also occasionally wrote criticism of ballet. He wrote a number of cover stories, most of them about authors, including Joyce Carol Oates, Saul Bellow and John Cheever. After 1988, he continued to write reviews for the magazine from time to time.
        He also wrote criticism for The New York Times, where he was an editor of The Book Review from 1968-71, and for other publications. Easy Access to Tradition
        "His gift as a critic was that he had an enormous and easy access to the tradition of literature, and he could call on it without pedantry and without strain," the author Mary Gordon said yesterday of Mr. Clemons. "And he could attach his great sensitivity and appreciation for contemporary literature to this sense of the past that was very lively."
        Mr. Clemons was born in Houston, graduated from high school there. He received an A.B. with highest honors in English from Princeton in 1951 and a master's degree with first-class honors in English in 1953 from Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.
        After Oxford, he went to work as a seaman in the Gulf of Mexico, in offshore seismic exploration. He also worked as a nightclub pianist in New York City and Rome, where he went in 1960 as a recipient of a Prix de Rome. Author of a Volume of Stories
        Mr. Clemons was a freelance writer from 1955-65 and was the author of a book of short stories, "The Poison Tree and Other Stories," that came out in 1959. He was an editor with McGraw-Hill in New York from 1966-68, and an editor and writer with Vanity Fair magazine in 1982 and 1983.
        Late in his career, Mr. Clemons worked on a biography of Gore Vidal, but friends said yesterday that the book was not finished.
        He is survived by a brother, Robert E. (Buddy) Clemons, of Houston.
      