
        Gilbert Le Coze, a French-born chef whose innovative ways with seafood at his Manhattan restaurant, Le Bernardin, influenced a generation of American cooks, died on Thursday. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Le Coze had a heart attack while working out at a health club, said Eric Ripert, chef at Le Bernardin.
        In addition to the restaurant in New York, Mr. Le Coze and his sister, Maguy, owned Brasserie Le Coze in the Coconut Grove section of Miami, and they recently opened another restaurant with the same name in Atlanta.
        Over the years, Mr. Le Coze had been turning over the kitchen reins at Le Bernardin to Mr. Ripert and spending more time running the three businesses with his sister. "I have been cooking since I was a teen-ager," he said in a recent interview, "and the time finally comes to give others a chance to express themselves."
        A Passion for the Sea
        His major influence as a chef may have been his technique of treating fish the way one treats meat -- that is, basing cooking times on a particular fish's  texture and character, not according to a fixed formula. His presentations, too, sometimes reminiscent of Japanese simplicity, influenced chefs from coast to coast.
        Mr. Le Coze, who had a passion for the sea and an encyclopedic knowledge of  seafood, said he learned his trade from his father, also a chef, and his grandfather, a fisherman. At 13, Mr. Le Coze started working in the kitchen of an inn his parents owned in Port Navalo, a tiny seaport town on the coast of Brittany. He also spent much time fishing.
        In 1972, Mr. Le Coze left Brittany for Paris with dreams of opening a restaurant with his sister. They pooled their money, borrowed from friends and bought a small antique shop on the Left Bank, turning it into a 35-seat restaurant specializing in fish. Mr. Le Coze and his sister named the restaurant after a folk song their father sang to them as children, "Les Moines de St. Bernardin," about monks who, Mr. Le Coze said, "loved life -- the good life especially."
        Within four years, Le Bernardin was awarded one star by the Michelin Guide.  After eight years, the Le Cozes moved the restaurant to larger quarters near the Etoile and the Arc de Triomphe, where they received their second Michelin star.
        'An Epiphany of Sorts'
        In 1986, the Equitable Life Assurance Company invited them to open a restaurant in the company's new Manhattan headquarters on West 51st Street. The  opulent new Le Bernardin garnered four stars from The New York Times within four months of opening. The Times described the seafood served there as "so fresh and lovingly prepared as to be an epiphany of sorts."
        For years, Mr. Le Coze would rise at 3 A.M. to inspect the daily catch at the Fulton Fish Market. He also contracted individual fishermen to provide Le Bernardin with special fish and shellfish.
        Typical of Mr. Le Coze's dishes were sheets of black bass flecked with coriander and basil and lacquered with extra-virgin olive oil, black bass with a coriander infusion, saffron-tinted sea scallops served in their shells and fresh sea urchins with truffle juice.
        In addition to his sister, who lives in New York and Miami, Mr. Le Coze is survived by his father, Gabriel, of Port Navalo.
      