
        Robert E. Lee, a prolific playwright and adapter of material for radio and the stage and a co-author of the historical courtroom drama "Inherit the Wind," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 and lived in Encino, Calif.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Lucy.
        Mr. Lee, who had a hand in dozens of stage plays and films and hundreds of radio scripts, was best known for his collaboration with Jerome Lawrence, an association that lasted more than 50 years and produced, among other works, 39 plays, 14 of them on Broadway.
        In addition to "Inherit the Wind," the fictionalized version of the Scopes "monkey" trial, which opened in 1955, ran for three years and has been translated into 34 languages and performed around the world, their works include "A Call on Kuprin" (1961), an early Cold War thriller; "First Monday in October" (1978), about the first woman on the Supreme Court, which was later made into a film, and "The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail." The pair also wrote "Auntie Mame" (1956), the stage play based on the writings of Patrick Dennis, and, a decade later, the book for "Mame," the Jerry Herman musical.  Partnership Formed Over Lunch
        Mr. Lee was born in 1918 in Elyria, Ohio. He attended Ohio Wesleyan University and later moved to New York, where he joined the advertising firm of Young & Rubicam. It was in January 1942, while he was working as a director of radio advertisements, that he met Mr. Lawrence, another Ohioan who was then a writer for CBS radio. A week later, over lunch in Manhattan, the two began their first collaboration, a radio play called "Inside a Kid's Head."
        In 1948, their first Broadway play, "Look, Ma, I'm Dancin' " was directed by George Abbott and choreographed by Jerome Robbins. Their most recent collaboration, "Whisper in the Mind," about an imagined meeting between Benjamin Franklin and Franz Anton Mesmer, an 18th-century Austrian hypnotist, was based on material discovered by Norman Cousins. It was produced this spring at the Missouri Repertory Theater in Kansas City.
        On his own, Mr. Lee was the author of several plays and the book "Television: The Revolution," which was published in 1944. He recently completed an epistolary novel about his namesake, the Confederate general, called "The Lost Letters of Robert E. Lee."
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Janet Waldo; a son, Jonathan, and two grandchildren, all of Los Angeles.
      