
        Dr. Charles Scott Benson, an expert on the economics of education, died on Saturday in Carlsbad, Calif., while on a weekend visit with relatives. He was 72 and lived in Kensington, Calif., outside Berkeley.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, said the University of California, where Dr. Benson was a professor emeritus and, from 1964 until his retirement three years ago, taught educational administration and policy analysis.
        Dr. Benson was also the director and chief investigator of the National Center for Research in Vocational Education. The center, based on the Berkeley campus, is a consortium of seven institutions financed by the United States Education Department to study the relationship between classroom studies and the workplace. Models of Change
        Through his three decades at Berkeley, Dr. Benson's writings and advice contributed to public policy in America and abroad. He once said he regarded the center he headed as an instrument of changing a system that, he said, could doom a person who had no college degree to "wander from one minimum-wage job to another for about 10 years before finding a place to begin a career."
        Most recently he focused on models for a vocational education that would integrate academic and vocational studies in high school as an alternative to the traditional college-preparatory curriculum.
        He combined his research with public service in matters like school finance reform, social policies affecting pupils and their families, and the relationship between education and employment. He often served as a consultant to the World Bank, the Ford Foundation and American foreign aid officials, among others, on educational development planning overseas.
        He played a role in the search for school finance reforms in the 1960's and 70's, and his text "The Economics of Public Education" (Houghton Mifflin) helped to define the subject.  Dr. Benson, a native of Atlanta, received his bachelor's degree in economics from Princeton University and his master's and Ph.D. from Columbia University. Before joining the Berkeley faculty, he taught at Bowdoin College from 1950 to 1955 and at Harvard University from 1955 until 1963.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Merrick Benson; two daughters, Michele S., of Berkeley, and Sally M., of Richmond; a son, Charles S. Jr., of Pocatello, Idaho; a brother, Lawrence W., of Monroe, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
      