
        John Joseph Driscoll, who served for 24 years as president of the Connecticut State Labor Council, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport. A Bridgeport resident, he was 82.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Driscoll presided over his state's Labor Council -- representing the constituent unions of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations -- from 1961 until he retired in 1985. During that period he was considered one of Connecticut's most influential citizens.
        But Mr. Driscoll resisted the title of Connecticut's "Mr. Labor" that was sometimes bestowed upon him and played down references to his power. "The only power I have is the power of persuasion," he said.
        The son of Irish immigrants, he was born in Waterbury and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in philosophy from Wesleyan University, from which he also received a master's degree in English. Earlier, he had wanted to be an architect, but a year at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology convinced him that this talents lay elsewhere. After Wesleyan, a year at Harvard Law School left him with the same impression about law.
        He had his first taste of labor at 17 working in a factory in Waterbury for the summer. He said the "horrendous" noise caused muscle spasms that disappeared only when he left the mill gate. Familiar Figure in the Capitol
        Mr. Driscoll went to work in 1937 for 40 cents an hour at the Bristol Company in Waterbury. He was so good at organizing fellow workers that the International Union of Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers hired him full time. He moved on to the C.I.O., the United Auto Workers and, finally, to the newly merged A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        He became executive secretary of the State Labor Council in 1957 and was elected president four years later. After that, his slight figure and white mustache became as familiar in the Capitol corridors of Hartford as they were in union halls.
        Mr. Driscoll served on the Governor's Council of Economic Advisers and on the state's first Commission for Higher Education. He often voiced concern that the rising fees at public colleges were shutting out the children of blue-collar families.
        He was outspoken in his support of civil rights and marched in Selma, Ala., in 1965. As chief spokesman for his state's unionized labor, he was a delegate to five Democratic National Conventions.
        His only serious challenge for re-election as head of the Labor Council came in 1983, but he won handily.
        Mr. Driscoll is survived by his wife, Margaret Connors Driscoll, a retired Superior Court Judge; a son, David, of Bridgeport, and a grandson.
      