
        Han Xu, a senior Chinese diplomat whose lifelong association with the United States culminated in a four-year tour as Ambassador to Washington in the 1980's, died in Beijing on Tuesday, the official New China News Agency reported yesterday. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, the news agency said.
        From his rescue of American fighter pilots in China in World War II, to his role in President Nixon's groundbreaking 1972 trip to Beijing and finally as one of China's main spokesmen to the United States after the Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989, Mr. Han's career was intertwined with Chinese-American relations. Naturally gregarious and fluent in English, he became so popular in Washington that when he was recalled from a 1973-79 tour as the deputy head of the Chinese liaison office, 30 members of Congress gave him a farewell party. 'Charming and Tough'
        With a head of thick, silvery white hair and wide eyes that seemed to express a permanent sense of wonder, Mr. Han was easily noticeable at diplomatic gatherings.
        "He was vivacious, charming and tough," said Michel C. Oksenberg, who worked with him during the negotiations that proceeded China's normalization of relations with the United States in 1979. Mr. Oksenberg, who was then on the National Security Council, said that "beneath everything else was a very tough Communist."
        Like many successful members of China's Foreign Ministry, Mr. Han came from an elite backround. His father was a judge in the high court of the Nationalist Government, which was defeated by the Communists in 1949.
        Born in Beijing in 1924, Mr. Han went to an elite school and his education included a heavy dose of traditional Chinese painting, for which he retained a passion throughout his life.
        He attended Yanjing University in Beijing in the early 1940's, joining an underground Communist movement that brought him into contact with Zhou Enlai, later the Prime Minister.  Helped Rescue U.S. Flyers
        As a guerrilla fighter in the Communist army, he belonged to a unit that helped rescue American flyers downed by the Japanese while on air raids over the mountains of northern China. He told an interviewer that he had saved currency notes signed by American pilots whom he helped save. Mr. Han also worked as an interpreter for United States-brokered talks between the Nationalist and Communist forces.
        Working as an aide to Mr. Zhou after the Communist victory, he rose through the ranks of the Foreign Ministry, serving as a counselor in the Chinese Embassy in Moscow in 1964-65. He became head of the ministry's protocol office, a position of importance in a country where protocol was supreme, shortly before China's reconciliation with the United States.
        Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said yesterday that when he visited in China in 1971, Mr. Han was the first person to greet him. "He did many extraordinary things to further Chinese-American relations," Mr. Kissinger said.
        Years later, Mr. Han recalled the significance of that trip to China, and how Mr. Zhou had insisted that protocol was as important as anything else during the visit. Early Contact With Bush
        In 1974-75, Mr. Han's job brought him in contact with another American he would work with over the years, George Bush, who headed the United States liaison office in Beijing.
        "Han Xu was an outstanding representative of China," Mr. Bush said yesterday. "Barbara and I knew him well when Xu was chief of protocol. He represented his country with great dignity and honor."
        During his two tours in Washington, from 1973-79, and then as Ambassador from 1985-89, Mr. Han became widely known to American officials, going out of his way to become familiar with members of Congress, State Department officials and White house staff members. He also served as a Vice Foreign Minister from 1982-85.
        "He was really outstanding in his appreciation of all our problems," said John Holderidge, former assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific, who met Mr. Han during the Kissinger trip to Beijing. "And he was very adept at making his Government's positions understandable to us."
        In the summer of 1989, Mr. Han put the best face he could on the June 1989 massacre in Beijing, which occurred a month before his tour as Ambassador ended.
        "There was, I regret to say, loss of life on both sides," Mr. Han said at the time, referring to the deaths among the protesters and among the soldiers sent to crush them. "I wonder whether any Government confronting such an unprecedented uprising would have handled the situation any better than mine did."
        Until recently, Mr. Han was president of the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, frequently meeting with American visitors. "His whole life was really caught up in the Sino-American relationship," Mr. Oksenberg said.
        Mr. Han is survived by a wife, Ge Jiyun, two daughters and a son.
      