
        Dr. David Axelrod, whose innovative policies as New York State's Health Commissioner for 12 years became models for the nation in the 1980's and 90's, died early yesterday at the Eddy Cohoes Rehabilitation Center in Cohoes, N.Y. He was 59 years old and lived in Albany.
        The cause of death was respiratory failure, said Peter Slocum, a spokesman for the State Health Department. He noted that Dr. Axelrod had never recovered from an incapacitating stroke suffered in February 1991, prompting his retirement two months later.
        Dr. Axelrod, who was named Commissioner by Gov. Hugh L. Carey in 1979 and became Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's most influential cabinet member, with authority far beyond health issues, gained national attention for his stringent regulation of hospitals and doctors, efforts to protect the confidentiality of AIDS patients, and support for anti-smoking legislation and universal health insurance.
        In a statement yesterday, Mr. Cuomo expressed sorrow at the loss of a friend and colleague, calling Dr. Axelrod "the people's doctor" and "a brilliant, dedicated and marvelously effective public servant" who had been "a national pioneer in health care reform." A Vigorous Campaign
        Throughout the 1980's, Dr. Axelrod waged a vigorous campaign to make health care broadly available and affordable across the state, especially to the poor and in neighborhoods and communities not adequately provided with medical services. He also imposed stiff controls to cut costs and improve the quality of care.
        Among other things, he issued rules to limit working hours and establish better supervision for hospital interns and residents, curtailing exhausting round-the-clock work shifts that were blamed for a number of deaths. He opposed increases in insurance reimbursement rates for hospitals to increase efficiency and redirect primary care to community clinics.
        He required more paper work for doctors and hospitals to help the Health Department track patterns of adequate care. He also pushed for measures to ban smoking in public places and initiated strict new procedures for doctors to prescribe certain tranquilizers.
        As the AIDS epidemic emerged in New York in the 1980's, Dr. Axelrod was instrumental in establishing major policies to fight it. He lobbied for money for AIDS research and treatment, originated programs to offer free and anonymous testing for the AIDS virus, assured the confidentiality of AIDS patients and helped set up centers for treatment of the disease. AIDS activitists generally gave him high marks for his efforts.
        And long before the Clinton Administration began its campaign for national health care reform, Dr. Axelrod in 1989 proposed a universal health insurance plan for New Yorkers -- including 2.5 million who had no insurance -- that would have given Albany sweeping control over the fees hospitals and doctors charge.
        While his Unicare plan was never adopted -- it languished after the Clinton Administration began its push for national reform -- Dr. Axelrod began several subsidiary programs, including Child Health Plus, a state insurance subsidy that now covers 67,000 children in families earning too much to qualify for Medicaid, and a prenatal care program, covering uninsured pregnant women.
        His whirlwind of programs and regulations, many aimed at cutting costs and improving medical services, made the New York medical establishment one of the most regulated in the nation. The regulations also forced many efficiencies on hospital administrators and doctors unused to tough oversight, and he sharply increased the number of disciplinary actions against doctors.
        Dr. Axelrod was often criticized by the health care community, which called him too confrontational and many of his regulations burdensome, expensive and unnecessary. And in the late 1980's, after his efficiency campaigns had sharply reduced hospital beds in the state, and shortages of beds were soaring on a tide of AIDS and drug-addiction cases, he was widely criticized for failing to anticipate trends. Sense of Humor
        He took most of the criticisms seriously, but after the New York Medical Society called for his dismissal in 1989, he displayed what colleagues called a typically impish sense of humor, writing to the society's chief lobbyist and challenging him to a duel, saying, bogusly, that he had ready the brace of pistols used by Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr.
        Beyond his work as Health Commissioner, Dr. Axelrod was one of Governor Cuomo's most trusted advisers. In his capacity as chairman of the Governor's Disaster Preparedness Commission, he took charge of state efforts to recover from blizzards and hurricanes and to investigate crises like the collapse of an upstate bridge that killed 10 motorists in 1987.
        David Axelrod was born in Great Barrington, Mass., on Jan. 7, 1935, the son of an Orthodox rabbi who brought him up with a keen sense of responsibility for others and for society. He graduated with high honors from Harvard University in 1956 and took his medical degree there in 1960. After a two-year internship and residency in Rochester, he joined the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., as a research scientist in viruses. Warning on Love Canal
        He joined the New York State Health Department in 1968, serving first as the director of its infectious disease center and later as director of laboratories and research. It was in that capacity that he came to public attention in 1978, becoming the first to warn of the toxic and environmental dangers of the Love Canal landfill near Buffalo.
        A year later, he was named Health Commissioner by Governor Carey, and was reappointed by Mr. Cuomo after his election in 1982, continuing his tenure in a department with 5,000 employees, a $1 billion annual budget and jurisdiction over New York's doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and other health centers.
        Colleagues said that Mr. Cuomo and Dr. Axelrod had shared an activist vision of government, and that the Governor granted his Commissioner virtual autonomy to design state health care policies, allowing him to take on vested interests and fight for health care reforms.
        Dr. Axelrod is survived by his wife, the former Janet Claire Ross, whom he married in 1964; one son, Jonathan N., of Albany; two sisters, Edith A. Reder, of Pittsfield, Mass., and Rose A. Levensohn, of Delmar, N.Y., and a brother, Irving, of Plainview, L.I.
        A funeral will be held at 3:30 P.M. today at Temple Israel in Albany.
      