
        E. Frederic Morrow, a retired banker, author and executive assistant to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Morrow was the first black to reach an executive position at the White House and the first black vice president at the Bank of America, then the world's largest privately owned bank.
        As described in his writings, he traversed a "jungle of racial barriers" to get there.
        The son of a Methodist minister, Everett Frederic Morrow was born in Hackensack, N.J., and earned his bachelor and Doctor of Laws degrees at Rutgers University.  In Commerce Department
        Before World War II, he was a field secretary for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. He joined the United States Army Field Artillery as a private in 1942 and left as a major in 1946.
        After the war, he was a public-affairs writer for the Columbia Broadcasting System. In 1952, he boarded General Eisenhower's Presidential campaign train as a personal adviser and administrative assistant.
        He was an executive in the Commerce Department in 1955 when the President appointed him Administrative Officer for Special Projects. That made him the first black to serve as a Presidential Executive Assistant. He also worked as a speechwriter.
        Mr. Morrow publicly urged the White House and the Republican Party to champion racial integration and equal rights all the way down to the district level, and to respond to black pressure for first-class citizenship. He held that the party's failure to do so was responsible for its "ignominious defeat" in the Congressional elections in 1958, and he called on its leadership to do some "soul-searching."
        How he himself was engulfed by questions of race and color was evident in "Black Man in the White House" (1963), his account of the Eisenhower years and the social and professional snubs he encountered. A review in The New York Times said the book made the reader squirm and must have caused many party leaders to wish he had kept his diary "personal and private."
        Leaving the White House in 1960, Mr. Morrow scouted the private sector but instead became a vice president of the African-American Institute in New York. "It still shocks many captains of industry," he said at the time, "when a Negro seeks a job on the executive level even though he dealt with them directly as part of his official White House assignment."
        The Bank of America made him an assistant vice president at its international subsidiary on Wall Street in 1964. His responsibilities included foreign loans and business development, and he retired as a senior vice president in 1975. After that he worked as an executive associate at the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N.J.
        He is survived by his wife of 37 years, Catherine Gordon Morrow; a sister, Nellie Parker of Baltimore, and a brother, Dr. John H. Morrow of Huntington Beach, Calif.
      