
        Charles Allen Jr., who quit school at the age of 15 to become a runner on the New York Stock Exchange, founded the influential investment house of Allen & Company and became the financial speculator known as the shy Midas of Wall Street, died on Friday at his apartment in the Sherry Netherland Hotel. He was 91.
        The Allen firm, since it was founded in 1933 by Mr. Allen, has been engaged in many hugely profitable investment-banking endeavors throughout the world, initially buying companies in the early Depression years when large blocks of stock were for sale at bargain prices.
        In later years Allen & Company, in which he was joined by his brothers Herbert and Harold Allen, was to provide initial capital to such companies as the Syntex Corporation, which developed oral contraceptives and anti-inflammatory drugs, and the Teleregister Corporation, a pioneer in online computer systems.
        Mr. Allen also helped develop the Irvine Ranch in Orange County, Calif., which is becoming the largest master-planned urban development in the United States.
        Mr. Allen's other ventures included oil and mineral developments in Libya, Algeria, Morocco and Mauritania, as well as gold mines in the Philippines and the Grand Bahama Port Authority in the Bahamas.
        Mr. Allen also was a director of many major American companies including Pepsico Inc., the Ogden Corporation, CF&I Steel Corporation, Warner Brothers and the Ambac Corporation.
        A shy, even unassuming man, Mr. Allen avoided the limelight over the years, even preferring to take taxis around Manhattan while other members of his family were chauffeured in Rolls-Royces.
        He grew up in a family whose members seldom discussed their private lives. The senior Charles Allen and his wife, Frances, began raising a family of seven soon after the turn of the century in a cold-water, Upper West Side flat with a tub in the kitchen. The senior Mr. Allen was a photographer and publicist.
        Four years after dropping out of the old Commerce High School and becomming a runner on Wall Street, he opened his own office. His brother, Herbert, joined him five years later after he dropped out of DeWitt Clinton High School. Legend has it that -- still in their 20's -- the brothers made and lost a million dollars in the Crash of 1929.
        Charles Allen Jr. was a voracious reader, from Variety to The New England Journal of Medicine, from which he often developed investment ideas. His interest in medicine also extended to philanthropy.
        In 1986, Mr. Allen and his brother Herbert and their children donated $15 million to help complete a community hospital known as the Allen Pavilion, which is a part of the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.
        Mr. Allen was also a trustee of the Frances Allen Foundation, which is named after his mother, and was a member of the visiting committee of the Stanford University School of Medicine.
        Mr. Allen is survived by his daughter, Terry Kramer of Manhattan; two sons, C. Robert Allen 3d of Sands Point, L.I., and Bruce Allen of Nevada; two brothers, Herbert of Manhattan and Harold of Kings Point, L.I.; two sisters, Evelyn Henry of Arcadia, Calif., and Marjorie Bisgood of Manhattan; seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 18, 1994, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Charles Allen Jr., an investment banker, misidentified a survivor, Terry Kramer, in some copies. She is his daughter, not his sister.
      