
        Paul Delvaux, a painter of incongruous dreamscapes who was, after Rene Magritte, the best known of the Belgian Surrealists, died yesterday in Veurne, Belgium, a small town near the French border where he had lived for 15 years. He was 96.
        Although encounters with the paintings of de Chirico, Dali and Magritte converted Mr. Delvaux to an implicitly Surrealist style, he remained otherwise closed to the currents of modernism. And while critics and historians constantly associated him with the Belgian Surrealists, he never participated in their meetings or activities and did not consider himself one of their number.
        Mr. Delvaux, a quiet, somewhat reclusive man, saw himself instead as working in the tradition of minutely detailed realism of Flemish artists like Jan Van Eyck and Hans Memling, and often painted on plywood made specially for him by a Belgian manufacturer of matchboxes. Convention and Incongruity
        Nonetheless, he never really emerged from the shadows of his influences. A typical Delvaux painting combined Surrealist incongruity with conventional academic rendering of a rather illustrational sort to create images of restrained unease and sexual tension. Absent from his art are the sinister shadows and spatial distortions of de Chirico, the plasmatic surprises of Dali or even the calculated artificiality of Magritte.
        His goal, Mr. Delvaux once said, was "poetic shock" created by "putting heterogeneous but real things together in an unexpected way." His best-known pictures, like "Phases of the Moon," which is frequently on view in the collection galleries of the Museum of Modern Art, feature images of passive, Neo-Classical women, usually shown nude, whose trancelike encounters with clothed men take place in unlikely settings that evoke Italian piazzas, Greek ruins, or the the parks and squares of Brussels. Mr. Delvaux, who looked a bit like Buster Keaton, often modeled the male figures on himself.
        Mr. Delvaux, who was born in 1897, studied architecture and then painting at the Brussels Academy Royal des Beaux Arts. His early work followed an expressionist direction until he was introduced to the paintings of the Surrealists in 1936. By the following year, his own variation on Surrealism was formed, and changed very little for the remainder of his life. Blindness forced him to give up painting in 1986.
        During the 1940's, Mr. Delvaux, like many European Surrealists, exhibited regularly at the Julien Levy Gallery in New York; in the 50's and 60's, his New York representative was the George Staempfli Gallery. His last New York exhibition was a show of prints at the Carlton Gallery in 1976.
        Mr. Delvaux was married twice, but had no children.
      