
        Richard B. Salomon, a philanthropist and former chairman and chief executive of Lanvin-Charles of the Ritz, died yesterday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Stamford.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, his son Richard said, and he had had chronic lung disease for several years.
        At his death, Mr. Salomon was on several committees of the New York Public Library and a member of the boards of Lincoln Center and Brown University, of which he was an alumnus and benefactor. In giving him a leadership award in 1977, the Brown alumni association said Mr. Salomon had devoted himself to Brown's welfare "to a conspicuous degree, but without ostentation."
        From 1979 to 1988 Mr. Salomon was chairman of Brown's board of trustees; he held the same position from 1977 to 1981 at the New York Public Library, where he was also a benefactor.  President at 24
        "The rejuvenation of the library was in great part due to his leadership, advice and counsel," Marshall Rose, the library's chairman, said.
        Mr. Salomon was 24 when he was named president of Charles of the Ritz, a cosmetics and perfume concern owned at that time by his uncle.
        In 1964 he became chairman and chief executive of Lanvin-Charles of the Ritz, also a cosmetics and perfume concern. The products that it distributed included Lanvin, Hermes, Dior and Yves St. Laurent perfumes. Lanvin-Charles of the Ritz was formed through a merger of Charles of the Ritz and Lanvin Parfum.
        He resigned as chief executive of Lanvin-Charles of the Ritz in 1972, the year after it was acquired by E. R. Squibb and Company, but he continued as chairman for some years afterward. From 1971 to 1983, he was a member of the Squibb board of directors and of that board's executive committee.
        Mr. Salomon was born in Manhattan, the son of Emanuel Salomon, a Belgian who was raised in France, and the former Mignon Eckstein.
        He received a bachelor's degree from Brown in 1932 after spending his junior year studying in Paris and Nancy, France. In later years, he said his fluency in French contributed to his success in the business world.
        Over the years, Mr. Salomon served on the boards of WNET, the PBS station in New York; the Stamford Hospital; the Fashion Institute of Technology; the French-American Cultural Society for Educational Aid, and the Connecticut Ethics Commission, and other organizations.
        Among the other recipients of his largesse were the Institute of East- West Security Studies in Manhattan.
        The other honors he was awarded by Brown included an honorary degree in 1972. In 1993, he was elected to the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Besides his son Richard, of Greenwich, Conn., he is survived by his wife of 55 years, Edna Barnes Salomon; two other sons, Robert, of Woodside, Calif., and Ralph, of Katonah, N.Y., and 12 grandchildren.
      