
        Dr. Murdock Head, who spent about a year in prison in 1983 and 1984 after being convicted of conspiring to bribe two Congressmen, died on Thursday at his  home in Airlie, Va. He was 70.
        He had been suffering from a rare form of brain cancer, said his daughter Karen Schlegel.
        Dr. Head, who had degrees in medicine, dentistry and law, retired in 1983 as a professor at George Washington University, where he had begun teaching in 1957 and had become a department chairman at the medical center.
        In 1981, he was convicted of conspiring to bribe Representatives Otto E. Passman, Democrat of Louisiana, and Daniel J. Flood, Democrat of Pennsylvania, to obtain lucrative contracts for the Airlie Foundation conference center, near  Warrenton, Va., which he had established and whose operations he had directed. Judge Oren R. Lewis of Federal District Court sentenced him to four and a half years in prison but indicated that the term might be reduced.
        Dr. Head had been convicted on similar charges in 1979. That verdict was overturned on appeal on the ground that Judge Lewis had failed to instruct the jury properly on the statute of limitations.
        In the case, the prosecution charged that Dr. Head had paid $49,000 in bribes to Mr. Passman and Mr. Flood. An aide to Mr. Flood testified that he had received payments in cash in the early 1970's. At both trials, Dr. Head denied under oath that he had made illegal efforts to sway the Congressmen, who headed  appropriations subcommittees.
        Returned to Work
        After being released from prison, Dr. Head resumed work with the Airlie Foundation. He also secured permission to practice medicine and law again and went on to do consulting work for various educational institutions.
        Mr. Flood resigned from the House in 1980 and later pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge involving payoffs. He was placed on probation for a year. Mr.  Passman was defeated in 1976 after 30 years in Congress and was later acquitted  after an influence-buying investigation.
        Dr. Head was born in Trinity, Tex., and served in the Army Air Forces in the  World War II. He attended Washington University in St. Louis and studied dentistry at the University of Louisville in Kentucky. He then practiced as a dentist in Louisville before earning his medical degree at the University of Vermont.
        He later served as a doctor in the Air Force, at Andrews Air Force Base, and  concurrently earned a law degree from George Washington University. He subsequently worked as a surgeon in Washington.
        It was not long after he joined the George Washington faculty that he acquired a large farm that became the site of the conference center. Hundreds of gatherings are held at the center each year by Federal, international and private agencies, institutions and other organizations.
        Over the years, Dr. Head also produced documentary films. His writings included a health book, "Living Young," that drew in part on his time in prison.
        His marriage, in 1951, to Jane Gardner ended in divorce. In addition to Mrs.  Schlegel, of Bloomington, Ind., he is survived by another daughter, Kimberly, of Richmond and Airlie; a son, Mark Murdock Head of Airlie; a sister, Jean Head Sisco of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      