
        Dr. George Edward Block, a surgeon who developed new techniques in gastrointestinal surgery, died last Sunday at the University of Chicago Medical Center. He was 67 and lived in Yorkville, Ill.
        Dr. Block, who had undergone three heart bypass operations, died of cardiac arrest, according to the center, where he was the Thomas D. Jones Professor of Surgery.
        Dr. Block was a past chairman of the University of Chicago's department of surgery, as well as president of the medical staff. He was an authority on the surgical treatment of colon and rectal cancers and of inflammatory bowel conditions like ulcerative colitis. Longtime Instructor
        Performing thousands of such operations, he introduced new methods and refined established ones to achieve better results with fewer complications. He built his reputation in the 1960's and 70's by performing more extensive and more radical operations than many of his colleagues.
        Dr. Block was born in Joliet, Ill., graduated from Northwestern University and received his medical degree from the University of Michigan in 1951. He was a regimental surgeon in the Seventh Infantry Division in the Korean War, and won a Bronze Star for meritorious service in combat. After the war he remained active in the Army Reserve, reaching the rank of colonel.
        He received an M.S. degree in surgery from the University of Michigan in 1958, and taught there for two years. Dr. Block joined the faculty in Chicago in 1960 as an assistant professor of surgery. He became a professor of surgery and chief of general surgery in 1967, and held the Thomas D. Jones chair for the last 10 years.
        Dr. Block wrote about 140 articles for professional journals, as well as 25 book chapters and a textbook. He was a guest lecturer and visiting professor at scores of universities and medical centers in the United States and overseas.
        A nationally known breeder of Angus cattle, he received the 1993 Breeder of the Year Award.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Cobb Block; three sons, George E. Jr., of San Antonio, John R., of Chicago, and Edward L., of Nashville, and three grandchildren.
      