
        Julian Schwinger, a theoretical physicist whose work in electro dynamics earned him a Nobel Prize in 1965, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76.
        He died of pancreatic cancer, said officials at the University of California at Los Angeles, where he had been a member of the faculty for the last 22 years.
        Dr. Schwinger shared the Nobel Prize with Dr. Richard P. Feynman, a longtime colleague and rival, and Shin'ichiro Tomonago of Japan. They were cited for their independent contributions in the field of quantum electrodynamics or, as the citation said, for doing "fundamental work" with "deep-ploughing consequences for the physics of elementary particles."
        Specifically, Dr. Schwinger and Dr. Feynman broke ground in the late 1940's and early 50's for an ensuing revolution in theoretical physics and the quantum field theory. They helped bring about much of the phenomenal progress in physics during the four decades that followed, particularly in ultrahigh-energy physics and in probing ultimate structure of matter. Quantum Theory of Radiation
        In a career that spanned nearly 60 years, Professor Schwinger advanced the quantum theory of radiation. His mathematical formulations led to a better understanding of the interaction between charged particles and an electromagnetic field.
        "Julian was a gentle, cultivated man and one of a handful of scientists whose magnificent contributions made science the great intellectual adventure of the 20th century," said Prof. David Saxon, a colleague at U.C.L.A. and president emeritus of the University of California.
        He said Dr. Schwinger had worked intensively until a few days ago, "seeking perfection to the end."
        Professor Schwinger was an acclaimed teacher with a polished delivery of lectures that seemed seamless and uninterruptive. He was also a mentor to at least four generations of graduate students, guiding their research and directing more than 70 doctoral theses. Three of his students went on to win Nobel Prizes. Won National Science Medal
        He shared the first Albert Einstein Prize with the mathematician Kurt Godel in 1951. President Lyndon B. Johnson awarded Dr. Schwinger the newly created National Medal of Science in 1964.
        He wrote his first scientific paper when he was 17 years old and produced nearly 200 others since then, along with books and a large body of unpublished work. In lectures and on film, he tried to make physics understandable to all as he reached out to students in the humanities and the general public.
        Julian Seymour Schwinger was born in Manhattan, the son of a well-to-do garment maker. He was reared in Harlem and then on Riverside Drive, graduated from Harris High School and entered City College at 16.
        Engrossed in the abstract world of theoretical physics, he got into administrative difficulties for skipping classes. At that point the physicist I. I. Rabi took him under his wing and had him transferred to Columbia College.
        He graduated from Columbia at 19 with the research for his dissertation completed. He was 21 when he received his doctorate in physics from Columbia in 1939.
        Dr. Schwinger went to the University of California at Berkeley to work with J. Robert Oppenheimer, and began to make fundamental contributions to the burgeoning science of nuclear physics that brought him to international attention. In World War II, Dr. Schwinger was at the Radiation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, working on radar for the Allied war effort.
        After the war he joined the faculty at Harvard University as an associate professor. By the time he turned 29 in 1947, he became a full professor. It was at that time that he started publishing the papers on quantum electrodynamics for which he shared the Nobel Prize. He moved from Harvard to U.C.L.A. in 1972 as a professor of physics, and was named University Professor in 1980.
        "His students and their students fill the faculties of America's best universities," said Professor Saxon, Dr. Schwinger's colleague.
        Dr. Schwinger is survived by his wife of 47 years, Clarice Carrol Schwinger.
      