
        Dr. Walter A. Fairservis Jr., an authority on the rise and fall of ancient civilizations, died on Tuesday at his home in Sharon, Conn. He was 73.
        He had a long illness, his family said.
        A longtime archeologist with the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, Dr. Fairservis first became associated with the museum as a volunteer in 1941. He retired recently from Vassar College, where he was professor of anthropology and director of Asian studies.
        Dr. Fairservis entered the Army Intelligence Branch in World War II and was assigned to Gen. Douglas MacArthur's staff in Japan before returning to the museum in New York as a full-time staff archeologist. He soon made a name for himself locating and exploring "lost" cities, some known only from legend.
        In 1949 he led the first American archeological expedition to Afghanistan, where he and two associates found the imposing ruins of a long-forgotten imperial city.  Planned Museum's Asian Hall
        In 1960, Dr. Fairservis led a team to Pakistan and discovered a sprawling ceremonial complex: the find shed new light on the prehistoric Harappan civilization and the ancient people then inhabiting Baluchistan and the Indus Valley.
        While continuing his travels to remote regions, he prepared a "Costumes of the East" exhibition at the museum in 1970. That exhibition provided a taste of what was to come -- the largest anthropological exhibition in the museum's history, the Gardner D. Stout Hall of Asian Peoples.
        For 14 years Dr. Fairservis served as the scientific authority in planning that hall, which opened in 1980. Its thousands of rare artifacts trace the cultural history of Asia from Peking Man to recent times.
        Dr. Fairservis was born in Brooklyn, and during his childhood traveled around the country with his mother, Edith Yeager, an actress, as she performed. He received B.A. and M.A. degrees in anthropology from Columbia University and a second M.A. and a Ph.D. from Harvard University. Playwright and Producer
        He was a prolific writer of books too numerous for even him to remember, he said. They included "The Roots of Ancient India" (1969), "The Ancient Kingdoms of the Nile and the Doomed Monuments of Nubia" (1962) and "Cave Paintings of the Great Hunters" (1959). Most recently, he wrote "The Harappan Civilization and Its Writing: A Model for the Decipherment of the Indus Script" (1992) and "The Archeology of the Southern Gobi -- Mongolia" (1993).
        He also wrote many plays, some of which were produced by the East-West Fusion Theater, which was housed at his estate, called Fairland, in Sharon. It is also home to the Center for East-West Studies, a meeting place for artists and scholars from around the world. For many years he was a director, producer and actor at the Sharon Playhouse.
        Over the years Dr. Fairservis was associated with the Peabody Museum at Harvard, the University Museum at the University of Pennsylvania and the Thomas Burke Memorial Washington State Museum in Seattle, among others.
        Vassar invited him to head its new anthropology department in 1969, and he taught at the college through last year. He helped develop an Asian Studies program and a "Comparative World Views" course.
        Dr. Fairservis is survived by his wife of 45 years, Jano Bell Fairservis, who was the illustrator for his writings; and four daughters, Teviot Fairservis of Sharon, Elf Lefferts of Manhattan, Jenny Fairservis of Monkton, Md., and Beth Fairservis of Sharon.
      