
        Dr. Ernst T. Theimer, a pioneer in the field of fragrance chemistry, died on Saturday at the Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, N.J. Dr. Theimer, who lived in Rumson, N.J., was 83.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Jo-Anne.
        In 1971, Dr. Theimer retired as vice president and director of research and development at International Flavors and Fragrances Inc. in Manhattan. He had been with the company 40 years.
        He held a doctorate in chemistry from New York University and was the editor of the 1982 book "Fragrance Chemistry: The Science of the Sense of Smell." He also served as an officer of the American Chemical Society.
        In addition to his career in fragrances, he was devoted to intellectual games and was a constructor of crossword puzzles, about 30 of which were published by The New York Times. When his puzzles were published, hundreds of readers often phoned or wrote letters expressing their bewilderment at their intricacy. One of his classic crossword brain teasers appeared in The New York Times Magazine in 1986 under the theme title "Planted Antonyms." One of the clues, for example, was "Like the heavenly gates," and the answer was "Plate."
        As Dr. Theimer was to explain, to arrive at the answer the person solving the puzzle would have to first equate the clue with the word "pearly," which contains the word "early," the antonym for which is "late." "Late" then replaced "early" as the planted antonym in "pearly," so the answer was "plate."
        Another puzzle published by The Times the following year was "Numbers Game." The clue to 2 Down was "Jewish teacher's title," and the answer was "Rab." The definition for 23 Down was "two bits," and the answer was "Coneys." As Dr. Theimer was to explain, the solver had to refer back to 2 (i.e. "two") Down, take its answer, "Rab," add "bits" and get "rabbits," for which "coneys" was the proper definition.
        Dr. Theimer also had a strong interest in chess and won several Northeastern regional championships. He later became a life master at bridge and wrote extensively on the subject. His collection of bridge stories, "The Bridge Adventures of Androcles MacThick," was published in 1981.
        He is survived by his wife; a son, James E., of Redding, Calif., and a daughter, Catharine S. Nepomnyashchy of Manhattan.
      