
        Gen. Charles Lawthers Donnelly Jr., who rose from fighter pilot in Vietnam to command all of America's and NATO's air power in Europe, died on Sunday in Malcolm Grow Medical Center at Andrews Air Force Base. A resident of Arlington, Va., he was 64 years old.
        The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the Air Force said.
        General Donnelly reached four-star rank in 1984, a few months after he took over as commander in chief of United States Air Forces in Europe, and commander of Allied Forces Central Europe. He had his headquarters at Ramstein Air Base, in the German Rhineland, and he retired from those commands and from the service three years later.
        Before moving to Germany, he was stationed at Yokota Air Base in Japan for three years, commanding the Fifth Air Force and United States Forces in Japan. That placed him in charge of American air units in both Japan and South Korea and made him overall the senior American military man based in Japan. 8,000 Hours of Flight Time
        Born in Barberton, Ohio, he graduated from Otterbein College in Westerville, Ohio, in 1950, a year before he joined the Air Force as an aviation cadet. He later received a master's degree in public administration from George Washington University and graduated from the Squadron Officer School, the Air Command and Staff College, the Air War College, and the Royal College of Defense Studies in London.
        In all, General Donnelly was credited with over 8,000 hours of flight time in 38 types of aircraft. In the early 1950's he flew F-51's and F-86's for the 431st Fighter-Interceptor Squadron at Selfridge Air Force Base in Michigan and what was then Wheelus Air Base in Libya.
        He completed a series of assignments as an instructor, operations officer and aide-de-camp at a training command in this country before he was posted to the 555th Tactical Fighter Squadron at the Ubon Royal Thai Air Force Base in 1966. A major and flight commander, he logged 100 combat missions over North Vietnam and 27 over Laos until he was attached to Air Force headquarters in Washington eight months later.
        Just before he took his post in Japan, he was the chief of the United States Training Mission to Saudi Arabia. As such he oversaw the American security-assistance and military sales programs in Saudi Arabia. He coordinated all Department of Defense activities in that country.
        Among his many decorations were the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit with two oak-leaf clusters, Distinguished Flying Cross and Air Medal with 12 oak-leaf clusters.
        General Donnelly is survived by his wife of 42 years, Carolyn Vandersall Donnelly; a daughter, Linda E. Wieland of Fredericksburg, Va.; two sisters, Susan Hartfield of Columbus, Ohio, and Margaret Bischoff of Antioch, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      