
        Dorothy Hodgkin, a British scientist who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for 1964, died on Friday in her home at Shipston-on-Stour, in Warwickshire in central England. She was 84.
        She died after suffering a stroke, her family said.
        Professor Hodgkin was the chancellor of Bristol University from 1970 until her retirement in 1988, and also taught at Oxford.
        She was the third woman to win the Nobel chemistry award. The first two were Marie Curie, in 1911, and her daughter Irene Joliot-Curie, in 1935.
        Professor Hodgkin had used X-rays to probe into the inner architecture of key biochemical compounds, elucidating their structures and providing essential aid for those seeking to understand how and why these compounds work in living organisms.
        Over the years, she was the author of a variety of scientific writings on the X-ray crystallographic analysis of structures of molecules, including penicillin, vitamin B12 and insulin.
        The Times of London, in looking back over her career, observed on Saturday, "She will always be remembered for her discovery of the structure of penicillin, of the antipernicious anemia factor vitamin B12 and of the diabetic hormone, insulin."
        The Swedish Academy of Science, in announcing Professor Hodgkin's prize, praised her "exceptional skill, in which chemical knowledge, intuition, imagination and perseverance have been conspicuous."
        In 1965, Queen Elizabeth II made Professor Hodgkin the first woman since Florence Nightingale (1820-1910), the founder of modern nursing, to become a member of the Order of Merit, Britain's most respected royal order. It is limited at any time to 24 members, who have excelled in science, art, letters or the armed services. Years before, in 1947, Professor Hodgkin was elected a fellow of the Royal Society for her analysis of penicillin.
        In 1960 she became Royal Society Wolfson Research Professor at Oxford, and she retired from that chair in 1977. She held other titles at Oxford in earlier decades, and was a fellow of that university's Somerville College from 1936 to 1977. Among her undergraduate students at Oxford was Margaret Thatcher, who went into politics, not chemistry, to become a long-serving Prime Minister.
        In addition, Professor Hodgkin was a member or fellow of numerous learned bodies in Britain, the United States and other countries. And she was a founding member of Pugwash, the international organization of scientists who tried to improve communication between scientists on the Iron Curtain's two sides during the cold war. Pugwash was established in 1957, in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, to study problems linked to the development of weapons of mass destruction.
        Professor Hodgkin was born Dorothy Mary Crowfoot in Cairo, where her father worked for the Egyptian Government. She went on to a school in England -- the Sir John Leman School in Beccles, in Suffolk -- and to study chemistry at Oxford and then at Cambridge, in an era when few British women pursued university-level studies in science.
        She married Thomas Lionel Hodgkin, an eminent Africanist and Arabist, in 1937; he died in 1982.
        Her survivors include two sons and a daughter.
      