
        Louis H. Bean, who was an Agriculture Department economist when he became nationally known for a book that predicted Harry S. Truman's surprise victory in the 1948 Presidential election, died on Friday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 98.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Elizabeth Fountain.
        Mr. Bean, who had a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University, was an economic and political analyst over the years. He was a Government official from 1923 to 1953, mostly in the Agriculture Department. Later he was a private consultant for various clients until he was in his mid-80's. He also wrote on a variety of subjects.
        He was an aide to the Secretary of Agriculture and did his political prognosticating in his spare time when his book "How to Predict Elections" came out in 1948. In that work, which is still in print, from Greenwood Press, he correctly forecast that voters would return Truman, who was generally seen as the underdog, to the White House. He also forecast the victory of the Democratic Party, which regained control of Congress at the same time.
        Years later, no less an authority than Truman himself wrote, "Only Louis Bean, an economist of the Department of Agriculture, and a few others forecast any chance of a Democratic victory."
        In 1948, Mr. Bean called his predicting technique the Bean Poll. It was described at the time as a complicated method of analyzing various sets of statistics, including characteristics of groups of voters and long-term voting trends. He kept on predicting election returns in the 1950's and 1960's, with a high degree of success.
        Mr. Bean was born in Russia, came to the United States in 1906 and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester. He married Dorothy May Wile in 1923; she died in 1991.
        In addition to his daughter, of Montross, Va., he is survived by a son, David, of London; a sister, Sarah Kizell of North Miami Beach, Fla.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      