
        Irvin M. Horowitz, an editor at The New York Times for more than 30 years, died on Saturday in Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 69 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        The cause of death was a stroke, said his wife, Marjorie Horowitz.
        Mr. Horowitz joined The Times in May 1957 and spent most of his career on the national news desk, first as a copy editor, later as the assistant national editor who coordinated daily assignments from early morning through the first-edition deadline in the evening. For correspondents and freelance writers around the country, his gruff voice at the end of the telephone was often the voice of The Times.
        Mr. Horowitz had an extraordinary memory for articles that had appeared in the paper, down to what page they had appeared on and what kind of headline they had appeared under. He also had an encyclopedic knowledge of politics. He coordinated The Times's day-to-day coverage of the Presidential campaigns in 1972, 1976, 1980 and 1984. On Harvard Crimson Staff
        Mr. Horowitz was born on Oct. 24, 1924, in Elizabeth, N.J. He entered Harvard three months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, then was drafted into the Army after his sophomore year and served in Europe as a combat infantryman. At Harvard, from which he graduated in 1947, he was sports editor and briefly managing editor of The Crimson.
        He worked full time for only two newspapers: The Times and, from 1947 to 1957, his hometown paper, The Elizabeth Daily Journal.
        In the 1970's and 80's, he taught news editing as an adjunct professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
        He spent two years in Paris in the 1960's as assistant news editor of the international edition of The New York Times. When he retired in 1991, he was The Times's obituaries editor.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Michal Ann Bowen of Montclair, Rachel Horowitz of Somerset, N.J., and Ruth Horowitz of Burlington, Vt.; a son, Benjamin, of Montclair, and seven grandchildren.
      