
        Colin M. Turnbull, a British-born anthropologist whose reports on African societies could be admiring, fond or searing, died on Thursday at Rappahannock General Hospital in Kilmarnock, Va. He was 69 and lived near Kilmarnock.
        The cause was pneumonia, The Associated Press reported.
        In retirement in recent years, Dr. Turnbull, who had a doctorate in social anthropology from Oxford, had lived in Hawaii, Samoa and India, where he became a Buddhist monk. In 1985 he retired as a professor of anthropology at George Washington University, whose faculty he had joined in 1976.
        Dr. Turnbull was particularly known for two starkly contrasting books based on fieldwork in Africa. One, "The Forest People" (1961, Touchstone), is mainly about a group of pygmy hunters and gatherers in what is now Zaire. He depicted them as having made a skilled adjustment to a not-so-arduous forest existence, a happy people with a remarkably free and fair society.
        When the book appeared, it was lauded, and it has become a standard anthropological text. A Sharp Contrast
        The other book, "The Mountain People" (1972, Touchstone), is a shocking portrait of the Ik, a hapless and dwindling hunting people in northern Uganda. The Ik had been deprived of their hunting grounds and had come to lead a demoralized, dog-eat-dog life on the edge of starvation. The book became a best seller and was praised as a powerful depiction of evil.
        His other books include "The Human Cycle" (1983, Touchstone), which is about the ways in which different cultures organize the main phases of a person's life, from childhood to old age.
        Earlier in Dr. Turnbull's academic career, he taught anthropology at Virginia Commonwealth University from 1972 to 1975 and at Hofstra University from 1969 to 1972. From 1959 to 1969, he was assistant curator and associate curator of African ethnology at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. There he supervised the construction of the Hall of Man in Africa.
        When the hall opened in 1968, he said that one message of its displays was "that tribal society achieved a stability and developed moral and social characteristics often thought of as being a monopoly of the Western world."
        Over the years, Dr. Turnbull was also a visiting or part-time professor or lecturer at Columbia University, New York University and other universities and at Vassar and Hunter Colleges. He received grants and awards from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the Royal Anthropological Institute and other institutions.
        Dr. Turnbull was born in Harrow, England, and served in the British Navy during World War II. He received a bachelor's degree from Oxford in 1947 and a master's degree in 1949, and he studied Indian religion and philosophy in India from 1949 to 1951. His journey back to England took him through Africa, and he became interested in anthropology and the pygmies, with whom he arranged long stays over the years. He received his doctorate in 1964.
      