
        Yeshayahu Leibowitz, an iconoclastic philosopher, scientist and social critic who outraged Israelis with lacerating commentary on their country's political, military and religious practices, died today in Jerusalem. He was 91.
        Active until his last day, Mr.  Leibowitz died in his sleep of unknown causes, acquaintances said.
        A grim visionary to his disciples and a provocateur to his opponents, Mr. Leibowitz kept up a relentless critique of Israel's policies in the occupied territories and of its political and religious culture. His remarks infuriated many listeners and often set off heated debate about the values of Israeli society.
        President Ezer Weizman hailed him today as "one of the greatest figures in the life of the Jewish people and the State of Israel in recent generations," adding that he was "a spiritual conscience for many in Israel."
        Aviezer Ravitzky, a professor of Jewish thought at the Hebrew University and an associate of Mr.  Leibowitz, said, "He was the raging prophet, confronting society with both moral and social courage, sometimes smashing truths, but forcing people to reconsider their world and everything they considered self-evident."  Rabin Threatened Boycott
        A religious thinker and biochemist with doctorates in philosophy and medicine, Mr. Leibowitz turned down Israel's most prestigious award, the Israel Prize, last year, after Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said he would boycott the ceremony. Mr. Leibowitz said he had decided to forgo the honor because of the public furor it had caused, and because he did not want to embarrass Mr. Rabin.
        A Zionist and an Orthodox Jew, Mr.  Leibowitz railed at what he considered abuses that plagued Israeli political and religious life.
        Soon after Israel captured the West Bank and Gaza Strip in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, Mr. Leibowitz began warning that the occupation of the territories would turn Israel into an agent of repression, whose citizens would be employed in growing numbers to police the Palestinians. Israel had to "liberate itself from this curse of dominating another people," he said, arguing that prolonged Israeli rule over the Palestinians would "bring about a catastrophe for the Jewish people as a whole."
        He supported Israeli Army resisters who refused to serve in the territories, and he warned that soldiers in the occupied areas risked becoming "Judeo-Nazis." Israeli undercover units that tracked down and sometimes killed Palestinian fugitives there were no different from gunmen of the militant Islamic group Hamas, he asserted.
        Mr. Leibowitz warned darkly of a possible civil war in Israel over the future of the occupied territories and of a danger that the country would become a "fascist state" that would imprison political dissidents like himself in concentration camps. For Church-State Separation
        A staunch believer in the separation of state from religion, he argued that the blend of religion and politics in Israel corrupted the faith. He condemned the veneration of Jewish shrines and rituals as tokens of good luck, labeling the Western Wall, a popular pilgrimage site, "a religious disco."
        Born in Riga, Latvia, in 1903, Mr.  Leibowitz studied chemistry and philosophy in Berlin and medicine in Basel, Switzerland, before emigrating to Palestine in 1934. He taught at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem for nearly six decades, lecturing in biochemistry, neurophysiology, philosophy and the history of science.
        He was editor of the Encyclopedia Hebraica, and published 10 books in Hebrew on religion, ethics, philosophy, history and science. A volume of his work was published in English under the title "Judaism, Human Values and the Jewish State" by Harvard University Press in 1992.
        He is survived by his wife, Greta; his sister, Nehama Leibowitz; four children, Yosef, Eliah, Mira and Yiska; 25 grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      