
        Buff Donelli, a one-time soccer star for the United States national team who coached Columbia to its only Ivy League football title, died on Tuesday at the Florida Medical Center in Fort Lauderdale. He was 87.
        The cause of death was complications from aplastic anemia, a blood disorder, his family said.
        By the time he rounded out his coaching career with an 11-season run at Columbia from 1957 to 1967, Aldo T. Donelli had already nailed down two singular footnotes to sports history: one as the only American to score a goal in the 1934 World Cup and the other as the only man to coach a college and National Football League team at the same time, a feat he achieved in 1941 when he coached five games for the Pittsburgh Steelers (all losses) while leading Duquesne to an undefeated season.
        Donelli was an outstanding halfback and punter at Duquesne in the late 1920's who later coached at Duquesne, Boston University and Columbia, but his first love was soccer.
        He was good enough to make the national team that was eliminated by Italy, 7-1, in the first round of the 1934 World Cup, with Donelli scoring the only American goal.
        In 1941, Donelli was head coach at Duquesne when Bert Bell stepped down as coach of the Steelers and his partner, Art Rooney, asked Donelli to fill in.
        Donelli coached the Dukes in the morning and the Steelers in the afternoon, but after five Steeler losses, Elmer Layden, the N.F.L. commissioner, gave him an ultimatum and Donelli chose Duquesne, which he coached to a 29-4-2 record in four seasons.
        When Donelli returned to the pros, he coached the Cleveland Rams to a 4-6 record in 1944 before being inducted into the Navy, which gave him the curious homefront duty of serving as Lou Little's assistant at Columbia. Successor to Little
        After the war, Donelli coached Boston University for a decade, compiling a 46-36-4 record. Then, fulfilling a promise to Little, he moved to Columbia in 1957, after Little's retirement.
        In 11 seasons, Donelli's Lions compiled an unimpressive 30-76-4 record, but one season stood out: Columbia's 6-3 record in 1961, including a 6-1 mark in the Ivy League that provided the Lions with a share of the title with Harvard, the closest a Columbia football time has come to winning an Ivy title.
        After his retirement, Donelli divided his time between Ambridge, Pa., and Florida.
        In addition to his son, Richard, a dentist in New York, Donelli is survived by his wife, Dolores, a daughter, Melinda Donelli; a brother, Allen Donelli; three sisters, Olympia Matulis, Evalena Shuck and Violet Pearock, and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 16, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary last Thursday about Buff Donelli misstated his overall record as football coach at Columbia University from 1957 through 1967. It was 30-67-2.
      