
        Dr. Wing-tsit Chan, a leading scholar of Asian philosophy who taught at Columbia University, died on Friday at Braddock Medical Center in Pittsburgh, where he had lived since 1966. He was 92.
        Dr. Chan died of natural causes, said his son Lo-Yi.
        During an academic career of more than 60 years, Dr. Chan also taught at the University of Hawaii, Dartmouth College and Chatham College in Pittsburgh.
        In 1992, the Association for Asian Studies, honoring Dr. Chan for distinguished contributions to Asian studies, said in its citation, "Your studies and translations, spanning the entire history of Chinese philosophy, traditional and modern, have opened the way for generations of scholars who, through you, have gained not only a larger understanding of Chinese philosophy but a lively sense of its richness and its implications for the conduct of life in China over the course of centuries." Work Forged Links
        Among his writings was the influential "Source Book in Chinese Philosophy" (1963) and his collection of essays, "Chu Hsi: New Studies" (1989). Dr. Chan was the translator of many books and articles from the Chinese and the author of hundreds of articles in English that helped forge links between scholars from China and the West.
        A son of peasants, he was born Aug. 18, 1901, in China. With money sent from the United States by their elder sons, his parents sent Mr. Chan for schooling in Hong Kong, where, he once said, he longed to see wonders like "boats that can fly and ships that can sink and come back again."
        In 1924, he graduated from Lingnan University, a Christian college near Canton, now Guangzhou, and left for further schooling in the United States. A chance meeting with a former professor in Harvard Square led him to study philosophy at Harvard, from which he received a doctorate in philosophy in 1928.
        After a year of travel around the world, he was named academic dean at Lingnan. From 1936 to 1942, he was a professor at the University of Hawaii. From 1942 until he retired in 1966, he was a professor at Dartmouth, teaching Chinese philosophy, religion and esthetics.
        His reputation flowered after his retirement, when he taught part-time at Chatham College and at Columbia and wrote voluminously.
        Dr. Chan's wife of 65 years, Wai-Hing, died last year.
        He is survived by a daughter, Jan Thomas of Berkeley, Calif; two sons, Lo-Yi, of New York, and Gordon, of Mobile, Ala., and five grandchildren.
      