
        Walter T. Wittman, a Bergen County lawyer specializing in municipal law and an equal-rights advocate since the 1940's, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Paramus, N.J.
        The cause was respiratory failure, according to the firm of Beattie Padovano in Montvale, N.J., to which Mr. Wittman was counsel.
        A native of Dresden, Germany, Mr. Wittman graduated from Columbia College in 1935 and Columbia University Law School three years later.
        He began his public service in Paramus in 1939 as judge of the Recorder's Court. The same year he was appointed attorney for the Paramus Board of Education, a post he held for 32 years. He was the borough attorney of Paramus from 1940 to 1954 and the borough attorney of Hillsdale from 1956 to 1979.
        As a lawyer and a member, he played a role in community organizations in Paramus, including the Volunteer Ambulance Corps, the School Service Association and the Paramus Library. On Governor's Panels
        Over the years, he represented many planning boards, zoning boards and boards of education in Bergen County. He was a member of the Governor's Subcommittee on Drafting the Municipal Planning Act of 1953. He also sat on Gov. William T. Cahill's Housing Task Force in 1971-72 that sought to remedy inequities in exclusionary suburban zoning and help people to obtain affordable housing.
        In the 1940's, as the attorney for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Bergen, Mr. Wittman brought a successful action against a Hackensack restaurant accused of refusing service to a black woman. He also helped bring an end to the systematic exclusion of blacks from the county grand jury.
        In 1964, he spent the summer in Mississippi to support the voting-rights campaign there. He assisted local lawyers in gathering evidence to challenge arbitrary and racially discriminatory actions by election officials.
        He is survived by his daughter, Jane Van De Bogart of Woodstock, N.Y.
      