
        Manuel J. Gonzalez, the first Hispanic agent to reach the rank of assistant director at the Federal Bureau of Investigation, died on Monday at the Hospice of Northern Virginia, in Arlington, his hometown. He was 50.
        The cause was cancer, said the bureau, which appointed him assistant director for personnel last October.
        Mr. Gonzalez had a 21-year career with the F.B.I., working as a special agent in the Philadelphia and New York field offices, at the bureau's headquarters in Washington and then at the Miami field office, where in January 1993 he was promoted to senior assistant special agent in charge.
        Last week he received the F.B.I. Medal for Meritorious Achievement from Attorney General Janet Reno. On Tuesday, in announcing his death, Director Louis J. Freeh called him "a leader and a strong role model for the F.B.I. of tomorrow." Native of New York
        Mr. Gonzalez was among three people whom Mr. Freeh named assistant directors in October to increase racial and sex diversity among the bureau's leadership. Beginning in 1987, a number of lawsuits had charged that the bureau routinely discriminated against Hispanic, black and female agents.
        One of the largest of these was a suit brought by 300 Hispanic employees of the bureau. In 1988, Judge Lucius D. Bunton 3d of Federal District Court in Midland, Tex., ruled for the plaintiffs, finding widespread discrimination in the bureau's treatment of Hispanic employees, particularly a lack of opportunity for career advancement.
        Mr. Gonzalez, born in Manhattan, graduated from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice there. He served five years with the New York City Police Department, winning several decorations and reaching the rank of detective.
        He joined the F.B.I. as a special agent in 1973, and in 1983 was chosen chief investigator for the President's Commission on Organized Crime. After transferring to F.B.I. headquarters in Washington, he was assigned to the organized-crime section. He also served as ombudsman for the F.B.I. before being posted to Miami.
        Mr. Gonzalez is survived by his wife, Sherry; two sons, Nicholas, of Arlington, and Anthony, of New York City, and a daughter, Teresa, also of New York.
      