
        Bert Yancey, the professional golfer who overcame manic depression after the disintegration of a brilliant 15-year-career, died yesterday after collapsing while practicing for the Senior PGA Franklin Quest Championship in Park City, Utah. He was 56.
        Professional Golfers Association officials said Mr. Yancey apparently had a heart attack.
        Until the recurrence of a previously misunderstood chemical imbalance forced him to abandon the tour in 1976, Mr. Yancey was one of the nation's leading golfers, as admired by his peers for the fluid grace of his precise drives and fairway shots as he was for his eye on the green.
        In his 15 years on the tour, he won only 7 tournaments and a total of just under $700,000, but he was almost always in the hunt. His record included two third-place finishes and a fourth at the Masters, a third-place tie at the 1974 United States Open and a number of individual achievements that put him among golf's elite. A Putting Record
        Among other feats, he set a tour record that lasted for 11 years when he needed just 102 putts, an average of 1.4 a hole, in winning the 1966 Portland Open. And in 1974 he set a tournament record for the Bob Hope Classic with a round of 61 at the Indian Wells course.
        Although it would not be diagnosed as manic depression until years later, the disease apparently first struck when Mr. Yancey, an honors student and captain of the golf team, began to exhibit exaggerated and irrational behavior as a senior at West Point.
        The Army diagnosis at the time was a nervous breakdown, and after nine months of hospital treatment, he was discharged from the Army in 1961.
        He almost immediately joined the PGA tour and had no further episodes until 1974, when he went berserk during a visit to Japan. It was the first of a series of similar episodes that led to the diagnosis of manic depression, an illness caused by a chemical imbalance in the brain and characterized by rapid and extreme mood swings.
        Treatment with lithium controlled the disease, but the medication caused hand tremors that all but destroyed his once-flawless game. Mr. Yancey became an acclaimed teaching pro, but the tremors were so pronounced that he needed an assistant to demonstrate the strokes.
        In 1984, he was switched from lithium to Tegretol, a medication that caused less-pronounced side effects and allowed him to resume his career in 1987. He joined the senior tour when he turned 50 in 1988.
        Since then he had won no tournaments, but had accumulated more than $400,000, bringing his career winnings to $1.1 million.
        He never regained his old mastery, but for Mr. Yancey, who lectured widely on his disease, even playing golf poorly was a relief. As he put it in 1987, when he finished 52d in his first tournament since 1976, "I've been in padded cells and straitjackets, and, believe me, this is better."
        Mr. Yancey is survived by his wife, Cheryl; their daughter, Andrea; a daughter, Tracy, and three sons, Charles, Scott and Jeffrey, from a previous marriage; his mother, Annie Mae Yancey of Tallahassee, Fla.; two brothers, six sisters and two grandchildren.
      