
        Dr. Thomas Roger Beam Jr., an expert on infectious diseases who was known internationally for his research on drug-resistant bacteria and viruses, died suddenly last Wednesday in his office at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Buffalo. He was 48 and lived in Williamsville, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the State University at Buffalo. At his death, Dr. Beam was a professor in the university's Department of Medicine and an associate professor in the Department of Microbiology in the School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences.
        Dr. Beam took a leave of absence in 1989 to direct a two-year project for the Food and Drug Administration and the Infectious Diseases Society of America to speed the F.D.A.'s approval process for new antibiotics. Those approval guidelines had not been updated since the 1970's. The project also tightened procedures for monitoring new drugs on the market to spot quickly adverse side effects.
        He also headed the F.D.A.'s Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee and the Antibiotics Use and Clinical Trials Committee of the Infectious Diseases Society. He served as the society's liaison to the European Community. A Growing Problem
        Born in Elizabeth, N.J., Dr. Beam graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and its School of Medicine. He joined the University of Buffalo in 1974 as an instructor in the Department of Medicine. For the last 11 years, he was chief of the infectious diseases section at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
        Most recently, he expressed his concern about a growing problem with drug-resistant bacteria and lagging research in the field of disease-causing organisms. He believed that many pharmaceutical companies had quit the antibiotics market because, he said, they "thought that the fight against bacteria had been won."
        He was the author or co-author of numerous articles and a reviewer for professional publications. He was editor in chief of two national journals, Infections in Medicine and Abstracts in Infectious Disease.
        He is survived by his wife, Janice Niesz Beam; two children, Nancy V. and Thomas R. (Todd) 4th; his parents, Thomas R. Sr. and Lillian, of Sarasota, Fla., and a brother, Jeffrey, of Paramus, N.J.
      