
        Dana Adams Schmidt, a correspondent for The New York Times for three decades who covered Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, died yesterday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, his sister, Elizabeth Schmidt Crahan, said. He had been in poor health and broke some ribs in an accident on Tuesday, she said.
        Mr. Schmidt was with The Times from 1943 to 1972. He won the Overseas Press Club's George Polk Award in 1963 for "the best reporting requiring exceptional courage and enterprise abroad" for a series of articles on the Kurdish rebels in Iraq. At the time, Mr. Schmidt was based in Beirut, Lebanon.
        James Morris, a British author and correspondent, praised Mr. Schmidt's enterprise in a review of a book Mr. Schmidt wrote later on the Kurdish rebellion: "It is not often nowadays that eminent foreign correspondents steal away on borrowed mules into forbidden rebel territories, leaving no forwarding address and revealing no details of their route."
        In 1965, while covering the civil war in Yemen, Mr. Schmidt broke his neck when the jeep in which he was riding turned over in soft sand in northern Yemen. He was taken to Jidda, Saudi Arabia, and then evacuated to Beirut. On the following day, he sent a cable from his hospital bed to the Times's foreign editor, Sydney Gruson, proposing to begin sending articles about the war.
        Over the years, Mr. Schmidt was based in Paris, Frankfurt, Athens, Beirut, Jerusalem, Cairo, Vienna, Prague, London and Israel. His assignments in the United States included covering the State Department during the tenure of of John Foster Dulles, who served as President Eisenhower's Secretary of State.
        Mr. Schmidt was born in Bay Village, Ohio, near Cleveland, on Sept. 6, 1915. He spent his boyhood in Cleveland and in Europe -- where his father represented an American company -- and went to boarding schools in Switzerland and Ohio. He graduated from Pomona College, in California, and worked briefly for the Los Angeles City News Service. He received a degree from the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University in 1937 and won a Pulitzer traveling scholarship.
        From 1938 to 1943 he was a correspondent for United Press in Berlin, Turkey and Cairo, covering the Allied campaign in North Africa and the invasion of Sicily.
        From 1970, when he finished his last foreign posting, in Beirut, until he left The Times in 1972, he was a correspondent in the Washington bureau. He then was a Christian Science Monitor correspondent in Washington and did freelance writing.
        He wrote four books: "Anatomy of a Satellite" (1952), "Journey Among Brave Men" (1964), "Yemen: the Unknown War" (1968), and "Armageddon in the Middle East" (1974).
        In addition to his sister, Mrs. Crahan of Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, the former Tatiana Constantinedes, known as Tania, whom he married in 1947; and a son, Dana Jr., also of Bethesda.
      