
        James A. McCurdy, a noted naval architect who embellished traditional design to create modern sailboats, died on Sunday at Huntington Hospital in Huntington, L.I.
        His death was caused by complications from heart failure, said his wife, Faith Higgins McCurdy. He was 72.
        Born in Philadelphia, Mr. McCurdy graduated from Yale University in 1944. He devoted most of his personal and professional life to sailing. In the late 1950's, he was chief of the sailboat design office of Philip L. Rhodes, an architectural firm that designed the 12-Meter yacht Weatherly, the 1962 defender of the America's Cup. Designed Naval Training Boat
        Mr. McCurdy also designed highly competitive yachts through McCurdy & Rhodes, a design firm he co-founded in 1968 with Philip H. Rhodes. Included among Mr. McCurdy's designs was the Navy 44, a sail training boat used by the United States Naval Academy.
        "He was a good, solid designer who wholeheartedly believed in designing a yacht for cruising that could also be raced," said David Pedrick, a naval architect from Newport, R.I.
        In the last decade, Mr. McCurdy had been instrumental in developing the International Measurement System, the sport's most popular handicap rule for grand prix sailboats and cruiser-racer yachts.
        He had competed in 20 Newport-Bermuda Races, as well as in trans-Atlantic competitions, and in the Fastnet, the premier race of the British Admiral's Cup series.
        Mr. McCurdy was a former commodore of the Cruising Club of America and the Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club of Oyster Bay, L.I. He was a member of the New York Yacht Club, the Storm Trysail Club, the Royal Bermuda Yacht Club and the Royal Ocean Racing Club of England.
        He is survived by his wife; two sons, Ian, of Oyster Bay, and Charles, of New York City; two daughters, Hope Olmsted, of Tazewell, Va., and Sheila, of Middletown, R.I.; two brothers, John G. McCurdy, of Philadelphia, and Richard B. McCurdy, of Santa Fe, N.M., and eight grandchildren.
      