
        Goodhue Livingston Jr., an independent investor and a former member of the New York City Planning Commission, died on Sunday at his home in Wainscott, L.I. He was 97 and was active as an investor until shortly before his death.
        Mr. Livingston, who described himself as "for the most part an enrolled Republican," was a member of the Planning Commission from 1945 to 1960. He once recalled that Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia had said that he chose Mr. Livingston for the commission because he thought Mr. Livingston would stand up to the master builder and planning titan Robert Moses. And indeed, Mr. Livingston recalled that the two men differed often.
        Mr. Livingston said later that despite opposition from Mr. Moses, he had persistently advocated the creation of what came to be the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. In 1952, Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri reappointed him to the Planning Commission.
        In 1944 and 1945, Mr. Livingston was executive secretary to Mayor La Guardia, producing, under the Mayor's direction, the "I am an American Day" celebrations on the Mall in Central Park. The celebrations were attended by more than 500,000 people each year. Mr. Livingston also arranged an Eisenhower Day as a tribute to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower and ceremonies for other American military leaders and for Gen. Charles de Gaulle.
        He was secretary for the city's Department of Health from 1938 to 1942 and president of the New York Fine Arts Federation from 1953 to 1955. Over the years, he was on the boards of Freedom House, Roberts College in Istanbul, the American Liberal Association and the insurance brokers Freeborn & Company. He was also active in Planned Parenthood.
        Mr. Livingston was born in Manhattan, the son of a prominent architect. Among his ancestors were Robert R. Livingston, who immigrated to New York in 1673 and became a crucial adviser to the colony's governors, and Edward Livingston, the Mayor of New York from 1801 to 1803. He was a graduate of Groton School in Groton, Mass., and attended Harvard College in 1916 and 1917. During World War I he was a second lieutenant in the United States Army field artillery, was wounded in action in France and received the Purple Heart and, from France, the Croix de Guerre.
        He was with the American Foreign Banking Corporation from 1920 to 1923, with the Equitable Trust Company from 1923 to 1927 and was an associate editor with Pathe News from 1930 to 1932. During World War II, he served in the Office of Strategic Services in Africa and elsewhere.
        His marriages to Joan Allen, Lorna Mackay and Ruth Monsch Gordon ended in divorce. He married the former Dorothy Michelson in 1966; she died in April of this year.
        He is survived by a son, Dr. Goodhue Livingston 3d of Seattle; three daughters, Lorna Livingston and Louisa Livingston Kennedy, both of Manhattan, and Linda Livingston Houghton of Washington; 12 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      