
        Robin Cook, an English writer who wrote under the pseudonym Derek Raymond and who won a loyal following with his dark and brutally graphic crime novels, died on Saturday in London, where he lived. He was 63 and also had a home in France.
        The cause was cancer, according to Reuters, the British news agency.
        His first novel, "The Crust on Its Uppers," published in 1962 under his own name, grew out of his experiences as a young man who rebelled against his middle-class background and went to work for gangsters from the East End of London. That book and his other early novels, including "Bombe Surprise" and "The Legacy of the Stiff Upper Lip," quickly gained a cult following.
        His later novels, including "He Died With His Eyes Open," "The Devil's Home on Leave," "How the Dead Live" and "I Was Dora Suarez," were written under his pseudonym, which he said he took to avoid confusion between himself and another Robin Cook, the author of "Coma," "Terminal" and other books.
        Mr. Cook's fiction grew out of his diverse experiences, which included associations with small-time criminals, dissidents and others who led unconventional lives. A son of a textile magnate, he was born in London in 1931 and named Robert William Arthur Cook. After attending Eton, he worked as a front for a gangster's real-estate companies, and he combined writing with stints as a pornographer and an organizer of illegal gambling. He also drove a taxi while unsuccessfully trying to earn a living as a writer.
        Mr. Cook, whose five marriages ended in divorce, moved to France after his third marriage broke up and worked as a farm laborer. On his return to London, and to writing novels, he completed "He Died With His Eyes Open," which was published in 1984. The book first became a success in France, which in 1991 named him a Chevalier of Arts and Letters.
        His memoir, "Hidden Files," was published in 1992, and his last novel, "Not Till the Red Fog Rises," is to be published this fall.
        He is survived by a son, Sebastian, and a daughter, Zoe.
      