
        David G. Lyon, a retired advertising executive who helped make the Marlboro Man a popular image and who later ran his own advertising agency from his Connecticut home, died on Aug. 5 at Norwalk Hospital. He was 83 and lived in Westport.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Lyon spent 20 years working on big accounts at four agencies in Manhattan. Before he set out on his own, he was a senior vice president at Cecil & Presbrey in charge of the Philip Morris account.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Lyon directed the company's advertising campaign that introduced the rugged cowboy lighting up its Marlboro filter cigarette under wide, open skies. The campaign also helped popularize the flip-top box and became a big success for Marlboro and Philip Morris.
        After Cecil & Presbrey folded, Mr. Lyon wrote a book about his experiences in advertising, "Off Madison Avenue" (1966). He also started his own agency, working out of his garage in Westport. He signed up small companies vying for room in the marketplace with big-spending advertisers for nuts and bolts, pet food, dairy products and packaging materials.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Lyon operated the Brown Bag Institute, a separate agency that had as its clients such major food-related companies as General Foods and Nabisco Brands. He and his representatives questioned people in 10 cities on what they put in their sandwiches for lunch, and their preferences were reflected in quarterly reports he sent to subscribers.
        Mr. Lyon retired five years ago.
        Born in Montreal, he was the son of Alfred E. Lyon, a former president and chairman of Philip Morris.
        Mr. Lyon is survived by his wife, Ruth; two sons and a daughter by a previous marriage, Michael of San Francisco, Mark of South Glastonbury, Conn., and Kathi Feldman of Boca Raton, Fla.; three stepdaughters, Diane Woodner and Andrea Woodner, both of Manhattan, and Sarah Jackson Dufault of Great Barrington, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      