
        Peter Cushing, a British actor who chilled a generation of filmgoers as the evil Baron Frankenstein, died yesterday in a hospice in Canterbury, England. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        With his gaunt figure, gentlemanly demeanor and controlled acting, Mr. Cushing brought a creepy power to his portrayal of the mad scientist Baron Frankenstein in films like "Frankenstein and the Monster from Hell" and "Frankenstein Created Woman." His film roles also included Dracula. Hammer's Olivier
        The horror films were produced by Hammer Films in Britain. In 1970, in his review of "Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed" in The New York Times, Vincent Canby called Mr. Cushing "Hammer's Laurence Olivier."
        He "plays the baron once again," Mr. Canby wrote, "impeccably seedy in his spats and raspberry smoking jackets. If for no other reason, I would cherish Cushing for having inspired the following biographical note in Leslie Halliwell's 'Filmgoer's Companion.' Cushing, says Halliwell, 'has played Baron Frankenstein, Van Helsing, Sherlock Holmes and Captain Clegg, and has dealt firmly with mummies and gorgons.' "
        Mr. Cushing was born on May 26, 1913, in Kenley, England, and won a scholarship to the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London. He made his stage debut in 1935, then set off for Hollywood. He found work in several films, including "The Man in the Iron Mask" and "A Chump at Oxford" with Laurel and Hardy.
        He returned to Britain during World War II to help entertain the troops and met and married the actress Helen Beck, who died in 1971. After the war, he was a member of Olivier's Old Vic company and was praised for his performance as the foppish courtier Osric in Olivier's 1948 film version of "Hamlet." He branched into television and won awards in the 1950's playing a range of classic roles, in "Pride and Prejudice," "The Winslow Boy," "Beau Brummell" and "1984."
        In the 1960's, he starred with Christopher Lee in "Dr. Terror's House of Horrors," and in 1972, he appeared with Vincent Price in "Dr. Phibes Rises Again." Among his many other film credits are "The Hound of the Baskervilles," "The House That Dripped Blood," "Tales From the Crypt" and "Star Wars."
      