
        Benny Ong, a Manchurian-born immigrant who rose through underworld struggles in New York to become what law-enforcement officials called the leader of the most powerful organized crime group in Chinatown over the past 20 years, died early yesterday at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 87 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed, but Mr. Ong's family, who had kept a vigil at his bedside in recent days, had said in an interview with The Daily News earlier in the week that he entered the hospital two weeks ago, suffering from prostate cancer and pneumonia. The family made no statement yesterday.
        In keeping with the secrecy that surrounded much of his life, Mr. Ong, whose real name was Kai Sui Ong, had apparently been hospitalized under a pseudonym. A hospital spokeswoman, Maureen Flatley, said no one named Ong was registered as a patient.
        But Richard Eng, executive secretary of the Hip Sing Association, confirmed that the man long known as the Godfather of Chinatown had died, and he said three days of public ceremonies marking the occasion would be held in Chinatown Aug. 17 to 19. Mr. Eng denied that Hip Sing or Mr. Ong were involved in criminal activities, and referred to Mr. Ong simply as "a very nice old man." Through the Decades
        From pushcart days of the Roaring 20's through the era of cellular phones and global networks, Mr. Ong was a familiar figure on Pell Street in Chinatown, where he lived and operated, walking about with a cane, consulting associates in the tangled, narrow byways and sipping tea or playing Pai Gaw poker with friends.
        Mr. Ong, also known as Uncle Seven because he was the seventh child in his family, had the formal title of adviser-in-chief-for-life of the Hip Sing Association, the largest of the 70 tongs that have dominated life for a century in the teeming Chinatown district in lower Manhattan, where 300,000 people live in 40 blocks of shops, factories, restaurants, tenements and housing projects.
        Organized like traditional secret societies in China, tongs are business and neighborhood associations, many with tens of thousands of members and with chapters in cities across the country and abroad, that provide merchants and immigrants with credit unions, social outlets, job markets and other legitimate services.
        But law-enforcement officials say the Hip Sing, with New York headquarters at 16 Pell Street, and a few other major tong groups have provided cover for wide-ranging, behind-the-scenes criminal activities, from extortion and theft to gambling, smuggling, drugs, prostitution and murder, using international contacts and employing notorious street gangs to carry out many of their activities. Cited in Senate Report
        Mr. Ong has repeatedly been identified by the New York Police Department and Federal Government investigators as a Hip Sing organized-crime leader. A United States Senate subcommittee report in 1992 described him as the "so-called Godfather of Chinatown" and leader of the Hip Sing Tong, which has used the Flying Dragons street gang as its enforcers.
        While others held executive titles, real power was exercised by Mr. Ong in his advisory role, the report said. "Now in his 80's, Ong has long been associated with organized crime in Chinatown," it said. "Mr. Ong invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer questions during a staff deposition."
        An organizational chart in the report showed three tongs in Chinatown besides the 140-year-old Hip Sing -- the On Leong Association, which reportedly uses the Ghost Shadows gang; the Tung On Association, reportedly using the Tung On Boys, and the Fukien American Association, reportedly employing a gang known as Fuk Ching.
        According to "Chinatown: A Portrait of a Closed Society," a 1992 book (HarperCollins) by Gwen Kinkead, Mr. Ong was born in Harbin, China, in 1907 and, following an older brother, immigrated to New York in 1923, when he was 16. He first worked in a Chinatown laundry and took other menial jobs, and like thousands of young immigrants he soon joined the Hip Sing Tong.
        Inducted by an elaborate ritual that included solemn vows and chanted oaths, swearing blood brotherhood to avenge wrongs to fellow members and to die before cooperating with the police, he made himself available to provide protection or revenge and to fight rival gangs, and by degrees joined Hip Sing's criminal activities and began his rise through the hierarchy, the book said. Convicted of Murder
        Mr. Ong was convicted of second-degree murder in 1935 and went to prison for 17 years; the origins of the case are obscure, but experts said the word in Chinatown for many years was that he had allowed himself to be framed and imprisoned to protect someone higher in the organization.
        After emerging from prison in 1952, Mr. Ong resumed his activities in Hip Sing, which by then was under the presidency of his brother, Sam, and became the organization's leader after his brother's death in 1974, according to Ms. Kinkead.
        But, she said, he went to jail once more in 1977-78 after a conviction for bribery. "In conversations recorded by investigators, he boasted that he was the payoff man in Chinatown and had numerous friends among district attorneys, police inspectors and chiefs of detectives," Ms. Kinkead said.
        In recent years, as Mr. Ong's health deteriorated, his power is believed to have eroded somewhat; in any case, his death was regarded in his community of 300,000 as the end of an era. Since Mr. Ong was technically a mere adviser to Hip Sing, it will not be necessary to select a replacement leader at the organization's annual convention in Chinatown next month, officials note.
        Separately, law-enforcement officials say, the underworld organization long directed by Mr. Ong is expected to face a leadership struggle for control over what investigators call a host of lucrative rackets.
      