
        Henry Geldzahler, the curator, critic and public official whose enthusiastic advocacy of contemporary art made his name synonymous with the art scene in New York for three decades, died yesterday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 59.
        The cause was cancer, said Kay Bearman, a longtime friend.
        At once commentator and protagonist , Mr. Geldzahler seemed, for most of the period from the 1960's through the 80's, to be at the nexus of art and public affairs. He began his career as a curator of American art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and at the age of 33 he put together the museum's sweeping centennial exhibition, "New York Painting and Sculpture: 1940-1970," a highly personal selection of 408 works by 43 artists that thrust the staid Met into the swirling currents of modern art and led one journalist to call Mr. Geldzahler "the most powerful and controversial art curator alive."
        In 1966, he served as the United States commissioner to the Venice Biennale, for which he selected the American artists to be exhibited, and that same year he took a leave of absence from the Met to become the first director of the visual-arts program of the National Endowment for the Arts. In 1977, he was appointed by Mayor Edward I. Koch to be the Commissioner of Cultural Affairs for New York City, a post he held for five years. Well-Known Portrait by Hockney
        An omnipresent figure on the social scene, he was a close friend of many artists, and his rotund, bearded figure made him a favorite subject of their work. Mr. Geldzahler was nearly as well known for a celebrated portrait of him and his friend Christopher Scott painted in 1969 by David Hockney as for any of his accomplishments; the painting, now owned by David Geffen, changed hands in late 1992 for $1.1 million. But Mr. Geldzahler was also painted by Larry Rivers, Alice Neel and Frank Stella, among others; he was also depicted in sculptures by Marisol and George Segal and featured as the centerpiece of "happenings" staged by Claes Oldenburg. Andy Warhol, who once said, "Henry gave me all of my ideas," made a film consisting only of Mr. Geldzahler smoking a cigar for 90 minutes.
        Mr. Geldzahler could be both charming and undiplomatic, often at the same time. He was fiercely sure of himself, and was as blunt in his dismissal of work he did not like as he was in his approval of art that pleased him. He seemed free of the anguish that possessed so many critics, and rarely took a middle ground: art either met his standards, in which case it received his effusive praise, or it did not.
        Pop artists like Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, James Rosenquist and Mr. Oldenburg were the first beneficiaries of Mr. Geldzahler's evangelism. Though as a young curator at the conservative Metropolitan he had few opportunities to acquire their work, his close association with the rising stars of the art world allowed his career and theirs to rise together, each helping to keep the other in the public eye.
        Mr. Geldzahler had a sure sense of politics, and unlike many curators he was comfortable with the give-and-take of life within cultural institutions and in government. But he enjoyed most the role of patron, which his job as a curator as well as his arts-endowment and city-commissioner positions gave him. Just after he accepted the city post, he compared it to being "commissioner of wheat in Kansas."
        "Culture is our best crop," he said. "It nourishes and excites." Born in Belgium
        Mr. Geldzahler was born in Antwerp, Belgium, on July 9, 1935, to Joseph Geldzahler, a diamond broker, and his wife, Charlotte. The family immigrated to New York City in 1940.
        He traced his love of art to an experience at an exhibition of the work of Arshile Gorky at the Whitney Museum that he saw in 1951, when he was 15. "It made me sick, physically sick," he told the writer Calvin Tomkins in an interview for a 1971 profile in The New Yorker. "I went home and slept for 18 hours, and then went back and saw the show all over again. This was the first time I realized that modern art was interesting enough to make me sick."
        After graduating from Yale in 1957, he began work on a doctorate in art history at Harvard, but he left graduate school in 1960 to join the staff of the Metropolitan. His intense involvement in the 1960's art scene irritated some trustees, but ultimately focused considerable attention on the Met, especially when the huge centennial exhibition, widely referred to as "Henry's show," became the talk of the town.
        At the arts endowment, Mr. Geldzahler initiated numerous programs, including museum grants for the purchase of art made by living American artists and one of direct grants of $5,000 to individual artists of his own choosing. He later returned to the Met while continuing to work for the endowment, and was promoted to the position of curator of a new department of contemporary arts, later changed to 20th-century art. From Politics to Politics
        When Mr. Geldzahler left the Met at the end of 1977 to join the Koch administration, he was asked why he would give up a career at the museum for one in city government. "I thought it was about time I got out of politics," he said.
        In fact, he proved an eager and ardent politician, and not only wooed the City Council at budget time, but also worked hard to supplement the city's meager cultural-affairs budget with money from private corporations and foundations. When he felt it would serve the end of strengthening the city's cultural institutions, he could appear to talk the language of business as comfortably as the language of art. But he continued to press for more public money as well, and by the end of his tenure, the Cultural Affairs Department's budget had more than doubled.
        After he left city government in 1982, Mr. Geldzahler became an independent curator. He served as the Distinguished Guest Curator at P.S. 1 in Queens, from 1983 to 1986. Since 1987, he had been the curator of the Dia Art Foundation's gallery in Bridgehampton, L.I., where he mounted shows of such artists as Warhol, John Chamberlain and Keith Haring.
        He wrote frequently, producing essays not only on artists who were becoming virtual old masters like Mr. Hockney and Ellsworth Kelly, but also on newer figures, continuing to seek what he once described in a speech as "the shock of quality, that instantaneous weakness, that breathlessness we feel when in the presence of something that is absolutely right."
        In 1993, his book "Andy Warhol's Portraits" was published by Thames & Hudson, and next month a collection of his essays and criticism, "Making It New," is to be published by Turtle Point Press, with an introduction by Mr. Hockney.
        Mr. Geldzahler is survived by his mother, Charlotte, of Manhattan; a nephew, Jonathan Geldzahler of Richmond, and a niece, Annette Geldzahler Bantan of Redding, Conn. A memorial service is to be held at the Metropolitan in the fall.
      