
        Manfred Worner, the first German to be named to the highest civilian post of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, died yesterday at his home in Brussels. He was 59.
        The cause was cancer, a spokesman said.
        Mr. Worner, born in Stuttgart on Sept. 24, 1934, was committed to the idea that European and North American security were inseparable, and was involved in military policy issues for most of his life. He volunteered in the West German armed forces and eventually earned the wings of a fully qualified jet fighter pilot while serving as a member of Parliament in Bonn from the mid-1960's.
        Mr. Worner, who spoke fluent English and French, succeeded Lord Carrington as NATO Secretary General in July 1988 after serving as German Defense Minister for six years. His popularity among the allies at NATO headquarters in Brussels, and strong political backing from Chancellor Helmut Kohl, led the allies to extend his tenure twice, until June 1996. Operations in 1992
        But in April of 1992 he underwent the first of three major operations for intestinal cancer. Jogging and hiking had kept him trim, but by the end of 1993 he had wasted away so much that he began talking openly about his illness, joking that his doctors had put him on a "delicious" diet of carrot juice, rice, and vegetables instead of a heartier diet of meat, potatoes and wines. As for his appearance, he said, he was like the alliance he headed: "leaner and meaner."
        His pallor and a slight trembling of the hands at times showed that the struggle was not easy. But after an operation in mid-December, he told NATO representatives on the eve of the alliance's summit meeting in January that he believed he had beaten the cancer. A week after the meeting, he was operated on again, in a German hospital in Aachen for acute intestinal blockage.
        Mr. Worner began his political career as a young lawyer in the state legislature of his native Baden-Wurttemberg. He had studied law in Heidelberg, Paris, Munich and finally Stuttgart, obtaining a doctorate of laws there in 1961 after writing a dissertation on the criminal prosecutability of military forces stationed in friendly countries.
        A member of the Christian Democratic Union party since 1956, he won a seat in the Bonn Parliament in 1965, quickly making a name for himself as a military expert and joining an air force fighter squadron to earn his wings the following year. Eventually he became a lieutenant colonel of the German air reserve with over 1,200 hours flying time. A Defense Chairman
        With the Christian Democrats in opposition during the 1970's, Mr. Worner served as their chief military spokesman and became a member of the national leadership of the party. He had no difficulty working with the Social Democratic Defense Minister of the time, Georg Leber, and when the Christian Democrats made gains in the 1976 national elections, he became chairman of the defense committee in Parliament.
        He was also chairman of the committee that investigated the most notorious of the East German spy scandals that rocked the Defense Ministry during Mr. Leber's tenure. Between 1978 and 1982, as the Social Democrats moved toward the left and opposition grew to American plans to station medium-range nuclear missiles in Germany to counter the equivalent Soviet forces in Eastern Europe, Mr. Worner became known as a firm supporter of close ties with the United States.
        After Mr. Kohl became Chancellor in 1982, he made Mr. Worner Defense Minister, strongly supporting the Reagan Administration's arms buildup despite widespread skepticism in Germany. But at the end of 1983, he made a misstep that damaged his domestic political career when he dismissed a four-star German General, Gunter Kiessling, as deputy commander of NATO on the ground that security checks had shown that he supposedly frequented homosexual milieus and was thus subject to Communist blackmail attempts. Franco-German Defense
        General Kiessling denied any homosexual contacts, disproved the charge and was reinstated in 1984, and by then Mr. Worner's critics were calling for his ouster. Mr. Kohl stood by him, and Mr. Worner carried on, arguing after the American and Soviet leaders agreed in late 1987 to remove all intermediate-range nuclear forces that NATO needed to strengthen its conventional forces instead.
        He was also an architect of increased Franco-German defense cooperation to strengthen Europe's contribution to its own defense, and supported the Franco-German brigade, outside NATO, whose formation was announced despite considerable American misgivings in mid-1987.
        Enough time had gone by then that the allies were ready to consider giving Germany, which provided the bulk of the continental European military forces that NATO had at its disposal, the right to the alliance's highest civilian post. Mr. Worner was chosen at the end of 1987 and became Secretary General the following July 1, giving up his seat in the German Parliament.
        After the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, and the subsequent collapse of the Warsaw Pact communist military alliance, Mr. Worner's job became one of trying to help NATO find a new purpose. Sought Role in Bosnia
        The alliance offered partnership to the Soviet Union, but it collapsed at the end of 1991. NATO was unable to make a coherent response to the nationalist extremism that broke out into open war in Yugoslavia the following summer, though Mr. Worner called for the allies to do so. The alliance finally agreed in August 1993 to provide air strikes to protect civilians in Bosnia and Herzegovina if the United Nations called for them.
        "NATO has done everything it has been asked to do," Mr. Worner responded when critics accused the alliance of inaction in the face of continuing fighting in Bosnia.
        The United Nations finally did authorize NATO strikes to break the Bosnian Serb siege of Sarajevo in February. In April, when they began a similar siege in eastern Bosnia, Mr. Worner insisted forcefully that the alliance could not sit by while the Serbs defied its ultimatums. His insistence, and American backing, persuaded the allies to take a forceful stance, and the Serbs backed down, at least for awhile.
        But failing health prevented him from attending subsequent meetings of NATO defense and foreign ministers.
        Mr. Worner also argued that NATO should make clear to newly emerging eastern European democracies afraid of renewed expansionism from Russia that they could eventually enjoy the protection that membership in the alliance would bring, if they qualified for it.
        At the 1994 summit meeting, President Clinton proposed a "partnership for peace" plan that offered the possibility, eventually, to all the former communist states. Some eastern Europeans criticized it as a watered-down version of the security guarantees that they had sought, but 22 nations, including Russia, eventually signed on.
        "There is only one guarantee for the continued health of our alliance," Mr. Worner said in early 1994, "the leadership and solidarity of our member nations. Without a clear sense of purpose and a strong common will of our member states, NATO could still wither away."
        Mr. Worner is survived by his wife, Elfriede Reinsch, a journalist, and her son, Marc.
      