
        Giovanni Spadolini, a former Prime Minister, a prolific author and a stalwart of many Italian administrations, died here today. He was 69.
        His office said he died of respiratory failure while recovering from a stomach operation last month.
        With his bulky, shuffling gait and heavy spectacles, Mr. Spadolini had been a familiar figure for many years in a career that spanned journalism, the academic world and politics.
        On June 10, 1981, two years after becoming head of the small Republican Party, he became the first postwar Prime Minister to be drawn from outside the ranks of the Christian Democratic Party. He headed two five-party coalitions that fought Red Brigade urban terrorism at the close of the period Italians call the "years of lead." Strength and Politics
        Despite his long association with the political system that produced Italy's huge corruption scandal, Mr. Spadolini was never personally implicated in the graft inquiries that have destroyed many political careers.
        His status as a historian and as an editor of Corriere della Sera, the nation's leading daily, enabled Mr. Sapdoline to project an aura of intellectual strength, political wisdom and sound judgment. His membership and longtime leadership of the Republican Party -- a political home favored by intellectuals and business leaders -- also enabled him to depict himself as aloof from corruption.
        Even when the old guard finally collapsed in disgrace in elections last March, Mr. Spadolini came within one vote of being re-elected as Senate speaker. A Native of Florence
        Mr. Spadolini was born in Florence on June 21, 1925, and graduated with a law degree from the city's university 22 years later. At 25 he became professor of contemporary history at the university, specializing in Italy's unification in the 19th century.
        In 1955 he went into journalism to edit Il Resto del Carlino in Bologna. He took over at Corriere della Sera 13 years later.
        It was only in 1972 that he entered Parliament, elected as an independent on the Republican Party list in Milan. He held a variety of Government jobs -- including the ministries of culture and education -- before he became head of the party in 1979. A Historian's Project
        One of his most cherished projects, which he established in 1980, was Fondazione Nuova Antologia, a historical foundation that has produced specialized publications and houses one of Italy's greatest collections of historical works.
        Mr. Spadolini's period as Prime Minister in 1981 and 1982 was marked by the Red Brigades' kidnapping and subsequent release of an American general, James Lee Dozier; the Mafia assassination of Pio La Torre, a leading Communist official in Sicily; the collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, and investigations into P-2, a spurious Masonic lodge suspected of plotting against the Government.
        A 1985 official biography of Mr. Spadolini, issued after he spent two years as Defense Minister, said his administrations "saw the victory of political democracy over terrorism."
        He became Speaker of the Senate in 1987 and was made a Senator-for-life in 1991. He was never married. A Prolific Author
        Over the years he published an array of works on subjects including the history of Florence; Giovanni Giolitti, a leading Italian statesman of the late 19th century, and Giuseppe Garibaldi, the best-known of the founders of modern Italy. He also wrote widely on contemporary Italian politics.
        In responding today to news of Mr. Spadolini's death, his peers described him as a great scholar and a statesman. The Senate, which was in session when word of his death became known, fell silent for five minutes in his memory.
        "He will be remembered as one of the most eminent figures of the young Italian Republic, to which he made a rich and profound contribution," said Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.
      