
        Dr. L. Stanley James, a researcher in the physiology of the newborn and the fetus in the womb, died on Thursday while vacationing at Center Harbor, N.H., the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center announced. He was 69 and lived in West Redding, Conn.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Robin Donaldson, a spokeswoman for Columbia University, where Dr. James worked for many years.
        Dr. James, who earned a medical degree in his native New Zealand, retired last year as a professor of pediatrics and of obstetrics-gynecology at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He became an assistant professor there in 1959.
        He was also the director of perinatal medicine at the medical center's Babies Hospital for two decades, beginning in 1972. He became an attending physician there in 1967.
        Dr. James was a specialist in neonatal and perinatal medicine. The fields involve the health of the fetus and the care of infants in the first weeks after birth.
        Dr. Stephen A. Fernbach, a neonatologist who is an associate clinical professor at Stanford University's medical school and the director of nurseries at Kaiser-Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif., said: "In many ways Dr. James was one of the fathers of modern neonatal care. He was one of the first people to recognize that premature babies were worth taking care of."
        Dr. William Oh, the head of the department of pediatrics at Brown University's medical school, said of Dr. James: "His research was most notable for finding new ways of improving the welfare of the fetus, particularly with regard to enhancing the ability of the fetus to overcome adverse environments, such as lack of oxygen supply, and to be able to survive and maintain a good quality of life." Looked After Quintuplets
        Dr. James conducted research with Dr. Virginia Apgar, who developed the Apgar score, a standard system for assessing the condition of a newborn. He was in the news early in 1970 because he looked after quintuplets born prematurely that February to Margaret and William Kienast of Liberty Corner, N.J.
        Dr. James was born in Te Awamutu, New Zealand. He received a bachelor's degree and then, in 1948, a medical degree from the University of Otago. In the mid-1950's, he became chief resident in pediatrics at New York University's Bellevue Medical Center in Manhattan.
        He is survived by a brother, David, of Melbourne, Australia.
      