
        Albert P. Blaustein, a law professor who dedicated nearly three decades of his life to drafting constitutions for nations in transition, died on Sunday at Duke University Hospital in Durham, N.C., after suffering a heart attack. He was 72.
        A fervent believer that a constitution could help a nation define its legal, political and moral identity, Mr. Blaustein wrote the constitutions now in use in Liberia and Fiji, contributed large parts of the constitutions of Zimbabwe, Bangladesh and Peru, and had a hand in the drafting of about 40 others, including those of Nicaragua, Romania and post-Soviet Russia.
        From his home in Cherry Hill, N.J., Mr. Blaustein, who taught at the Rutgers University School of Law in Camden, was frequently summoned by dissident groups as disparate as the Inkatha Freedom Party in South Africa and a coalition of lawyers in Nepal to help them stake out their positions in drafting new constitutions. Those calls became frequent in recent years, as areas of the world, from Central America to Eastern Europe, underwent wrenching change.
        In a 1983 interview, Mr. Blaustein said: "A constitution is more than a structure and framework for government. It is in many senses a nation's frontispiece. It should be used as a rallying point for the people's ideals and aspirations, as well as a message to the outside world as to what the country stands for."
        Mr. Blaustein would try to interject Western liberal notions into the constitutions he drafted; in the 1970's he tried, unsuccessfully, to persuade the leaders of the new majority-rule government of Zimbabwe to grant equal rights to women. But he acknowledged that for a constitution to work, it must reflect a country's culture and history. "We cannot put constitutions together like prefabricated henhouses," he said in the 1983 interview.
        While he praised the United States Constitution as a document that had worked well, even in crisis -- he noted that "when Mr. Nixon left power, the only person with a gun was a policeman directing traffic" -- he said that if he were asked to revise it, he would make the right to privacy and freedom of travel explicit provisions.
        Mr. Blaustein's contributions to nation-building began in 1966, when, at the request of the United States Government, he traveled to South Vietnam to advise that country in drafting a constitution.
        By that time, he had established a formidable reputation as a legal scholar and as the author and editor of many books. "Desegregation and the Law," (Rutgers University Press, 1957), of which he was co-author with Clarence Clyde Ferguson Jr., was a critical and commercial success. His other works include "The American Lawyer: A Summary of the Survey of the Legal Profession," (University of Chicago, 1954), which he wrote with Charles O. Porter.
        He taught at New York Law School in the mid-1950's and at Rutgers from 1955 until his retirement in 1992.
        Born on Oct. 12, 1921, in Brooklyn, Mr. Blaustein graduated from Boys High School at age 16. He graduated from the University of Michigan at 19 and became a reporter with The Chicago Tribune.
        He served in the Army during World War II and again in the Korean War, attaining the rank of major. Between the wars, he went to law school at Columbia University and practiced law in Manhattan at his father's firm.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Migden; a daughter, Dana Litke of Northfield, N.J.; two sons, Mark Blaustein of Fort Lee, N.J., and Eric Blaustein of Cary, N.C.; a sister, Marjory Simon of Purchase, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      