
        Dorothy Buehring Phillips, a lifelong champion of the disabled and the founder and first State Director of the New York Special Olympics, died on Wednesday at Fannie Allen Hospital in Colchester, Vt. She was 83 and lived in Albany until three months ago, when she moved to Williston, Vt.
        She suffered a long illness, said a spokesman for the Special Olympics organization.
        Mrs. Phillips was president of the board of directors of the New York Special Olympics from its beginning in 1970 until 1982.
        In 1969, Mrs. Phillips first became involved in the games by soliciting private donors and recruiting athletes for a New York contingent to the Northeast Regional Special Olympics Games for the Handicapped in Boston in 1969. After that event, she worked to create a permanent New York organization, which now trains and holds competitions for almost 35,000 children and adults statewide. Tribute from Governor Cuomo
        Gov. Mario M. Cuomo paid her tribute yesterday for a quest of more than half a century to build bridges for those with mental and physical disabilities to the rest of society.
        "She has seen her vision of Special Olympics in New York State grow to become the largest organization of its kind in the country, providing athletes with mental retardation an opportunity to enjoy the benefits of organized athletics," he said.
        Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the founder and honorary chairman of Special Olympics International, said, "As we celebrate 25 years of achievement, I continue to reflect on those early days and say a heartfelt thanks to those pioneers such as Dorothy Buehring Phillips, who helped to make it all possible."
        Born in Scottdale, Pa., Mrs. Phillips graduated from Geneseo State College and began to work with the mentally retarded in Hornall, N.Y. She also earned a bachelor's degree in special education and a master's degree in educational and vocational guidance at New York University.
        Over the years she taught at the University of Rochester, Syracuse University, and Bar-Ilan University in Israel. She was a member of many state and national boards and the recipient of many honors. She also remained active on the Special Olympics' board and several committees after retiring as its president.
        Mrs. Phillips, whose husbands, Donovan Franklin Buehring and William Holgate Phillips, are both dead, is survived by her daughter, Sandra D. Buehring of Williston, and three granddaughters.
      