
        Dolly Haas, a petite and vivacious actress on stage and screen, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 84.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, the Broadway artist Al Hirschfeld. For many decades the two were an elegant couple on the aisle at all Broadway opening nights, watching the actors and actresses whom Mr. Hirschfeld would sketch for The New York Times.
        Before their marriage in 1943, Miss Haas was a celebrated movie star in Germany and had a brief Hollywood career. She also played leading roles in plays on and Off Broadway. When Miss Haas made her New York stage debut in 1941 in Erwin Piscator's production of the Chinese fantasy "The Circle of Chalk," Brooks Atkinson, the drama critic of The Times, wrote that she was "an exquisitely beautiful actress, with the limpid grace of a Chinese poem or print."
        She was born in Hamburg, Germany, the daughter of a German mother and an English father. As a child, she studied ballet and, before she was 20, was acting in cabaret and musical comedy. She easily made the transition to films, in 1929 in "One Summer of Happiness," playing a department store doll that came to life. In this and other romantic movies, written or directed by Billy Wilder, Anatol Litvak and Fritz Kortner, among others, she often portrayed figures of innocence.
        With the rise of Hitler, she left her native country and her growing career and went to London, playing the Lillian Gish role in the sound movie version of D. W. Griffith's "Broken Blossoms." The film was directed by Hans Brahm, who became Miss Haas's first husband. Whisked off to Hollywood, she languished for a time as producers looked for suitable roles and tried to persuade her to change her name to Lilli Marlowe. Soon she left for New York and a life on the stage.
        After "The Circle of Chalk," she was in Piscator's version of "War and Peace" and in 1946 replaced Mary Martin opposite Yul Brynner in the musical "Lute Song," which she and Mr. Brynner later took on tour to London. In 1947 she acted with John Gielgud and Miss Gish in "Crime and Punishment" on Broadway. She was also in the Off Broadway productions of "The Threepenny Opera" and "Brecht on Brecht." In 1953 she returned to the movies, appearing notably in Alfred Hitchcock's "I Confess."
        Miss Haas and Mr. Hirschfeld met when the artist was on assignment to draw a sketch of a summer theater company for The Times. On occasion, Miss Haas's portrait appeared in the background in her husband's drawings. In 1975, she returned to Germany, where she was honored with a retrospective of her films at the 25th annual Berlin International Film Festival.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Nina, and two grandchildren.
        Services will be at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Maddison Avenue, at 81st Street, Manhattan, at 4 P.M. on Sunday.
      