
        Arthur Siegel, a pianist and composer whose best-known song was "Love Is a Simple Thing," died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70.
        The cause was heart failure, said Dr. Howard Rosen, a cousin of Mr. Siegel.
        Mr. Siegel, whose career in show business spanned nearly five decades, was born in Lakewood, N.J., on Dec. 31, 1923, and grew up in Asbury Park, N.J. He came to New York City in the 1930's and studied at the Juilliard School and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, where he met the entertainer Eddie Cantor's daughter and got his first big break as Cantor's accompanist.
        By the 1940's, he was writing special material for nightclub performers. He and the lyricist June Carroll wrote production numbers for the "New Faces" radio show produced by Leonard Sillman in the late 1940's. The pair then wrote 8 of the 20 songs in Sillman's hit Broadway revue, "New Faces of 1952," including the song "Monotonous," performed in the show by Eartha Kitt; it became Ms. Kitt's signature tune. Their other contributions to the show included "Love Is a Simple Thing," "Penny Candy" and "He Takes Me Off His Income Tax."
        Mr. Siegel also wrote special material for other performers, among them Nancy Walker, Hermione Gingold, Imogene Coca, Beatrice Lillie, Gypsy Rose Lee, Stanley Holloway and Kaye Ballard. With the producer and director Ben Bagley, he made dozens of recordings under the "Revisited" rubric, in which he performed the lesser-known songs of major Broadway composers.
        He wrote the score for the 1963 Off Broadway musical "Tallulah," which starred Helen Gallagher, and with Tony Lang wrote "The Last Musical Comedy," a spoof of 1950's musicals about New York City. The show was produced Off Broadway in 1988. His last show, written with his longtime collaborators Miriam Fond and Tony Lang, was the 1992 revue "Corkscrews," a satire of big-city life.
        Mr. Siegel was a regular performer on the cabaret circuit, singing both familiar and forgotten songs and chatting about their origin. In 1992 he recorded a CD, "Arthur Siegel Sings Arthur Siegel" (Original Cast Records), which included all of his compositions.
        He is survived by a brother, Edward, of Jacksonville, Fla., and a sister, Harriet Nabutovsky of Miami.
        Correction:  September 21, 1994, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday about the composer and pianist Arthur Siegel misstated the year that the Off Broadway musical "Tallulah," for which he wrote the score, was produced. It was 1983, not 1963.
      