
        Richard A. Heyman, a former Mayor of Key West, Fla., who was among the first openly gay Americans to be elected to public office, died on Friday. He was 59 and lived in Key West.
        He died of pneumonia that was brought on by AIDS, said his former assistant, June Keith.
        Mr. Heyman was elected to the Key West City Commission in 1979 and elected Mayor in 1983. He stepped down after serving a two-year term, then ran again and won in 1987.
        According to organizations that track the political involvement of homosexuals, Mr. Heyman was one of a small group of openly gay politicians who in the early 1980's were the first to be elected to local offices around the country.
        "When he was elected to the city commission there were very few if any openly gay and lesbians who had been elected to any public office in this country," said Michael Dively of Key West, who in the 1960's and 1970's served six years in the Michigan Legislature without disclosing he is homosexual.
        "It was still relatively unusual up until he late '80s," said Mr. Dively, who now serves as a local fund-raiser for the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund, a national group that supports political campaigns by openly gay candidates.
        Although Mr. Heyman ran as a gay candidate, he focused much of his work on the difficulties of finding environmentally sound ways to dispose of human waste on a 2-mile-by-4-mile island. The Key West City Commission next week plans to rename the sewage plant he helped build, dubbing it the Richard A. Heyman Memorial Waste Treatment Plant.
        In his second term as Mayor, before he learned he had the virus that causes AIDS, the Key West City Commission passed a resolution barring the city government from dismissing an employee with AIDS.
        Mrs. Keith, who was Mr. Heyman's assistant in office, said, "If there was a gay issue, he was there."
        Mr. Heyman was reared in Grand Rapids, Ohio, where he was an Eagle Scout. He graduated from Ohio State University in 1957 and then served in the Army. He later taught school in his home town, after which he moved to Toledo, Ohio, where he founded several employment agencies.
        In the mid-1960's he moved to Florida and eventually settled in Key West, where he was a founder in 1972 of the Gingerbread Square Gallery. The gallery showed paintings by the playwright Tennessee Williams, who lived in Key West, as well as other artists, including Mr. Heyman's partner of many years, John Kiraly.
        In addition to Mr. Kiraly, Mr. Heyman is survived by a sister, Glenda Heyman of Grand Rapids, Ohio, and several nieces and nephews.
      