
        Robert A. Weaver, an influential illustrator who combined dazzling draftsmanship with an unusually painterly style, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother, Fritz.
        At the height of his career in the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Weaver's distinctive images appeared regularly in the pages of Life, Sports Illustrated, The New York Times Magazine, Esquire and Look, accompanying news stories, profiles and works of fiction. His style combined loose, rough-hewn rendering, deft abbreviations and sometimes elements of collage, with a startling degree of realism that seemed to capture of essence of any face or pose without resorting to photographic detail. He was influential both as an artist and as a teacher at the School of Visual Arts, where he worked for more than 35 years.
        Mr. Weaver, born in Pittsburgh on July 5, 1924, was a natural draftsman who drew from childhood. He completed a year of study at Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh. A conscientious objector, he worked in mental hospitals during World War II. In 1949 and 1950, he studied painting in Venice, in part because he was uninterested in the abstract art dominant on the American art scene and also because he admired the unglamorized reality of the films of Roberto Rossellini and Vittorio DeSica.
        After 1970, Mr. Weaver's work was increasingly curtailed because he suffered from glaucoma, but he continued his classes at the School of Visual Arts. Retrospectives of his work were held at the S.V.A. Gallery in 1985 and 1992. In 1982, he was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Society of Illustrators.
        Mr. Weaver's two marriages, to Dorothy Dobbs Weaver and Skipwith Duncan, ended in divorce. In addition to his brother, Fritz, of Manhattan, he is survived by his companion of 23 years, Roberta Miller; two daughters from his second marriage, Francesca, of Berne, Switzerland, and Antonia, of Manhattan; a sister, Mary Dodson of Los Angeles, and another brother, Daniel, of Boston.
      