
        George A. LeMaistre, a former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, died on Monday at University Hospital in Birmingham, Ala. He was 83.
        He died of complications after heart surgery, said his daughter Alice LeMaistre of Bethesda, Md.
        Mr. LeMaistre, who was born in Lockhart, Ala., established the firm LeMaistre & Partlow in Tuscaloosa, Ala., after graduating from the University of Alabama School of Law in 1933. Six years later, he also began teaching law at the University of Alabama, a position he held until his death.
        Mr. LeMaistre left his law practice in 1960, accepting an offer to become chairman and president of City National Bank of Tuscaloosa, now part of the First Alabama Bank of Birmingham. In 1970 he was named president of the Alabama Bankers Association, and served as vice chairman of the government relations council of the American Bankers Association.
        He was an active Democrat, supporting John F. Kennedy's Presidential campaign in 1960 and Robert F. Kennedy's in 1968, and was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon in 1973 to the F.D.I.C. board to a seat traditionally held by a Democrat.
        Mr. LeMaistre was elected chairman of the F.D.I.C. in June 1977, and served for 14 months. He resigned in August 1978.
        During his tenure as chairman, the F.D.I.C proposed that state-chartered banks be permitted to offer interest-bearing checking accounts and allow customers to transfer funds automatically from savings accounts to checking accounts, a controversial proposal at that time. Mr. LeMaistre was opposed to allowing banks to charge for such transfers or requiring customers to forfeit any interest accrued in a savings account.
        Besides his daughter Alice, Mr. LeMaistre is survived by his wife, Virginia; another daughter, Virginia Jones Decatur of Tuscaloosa; a son, George A., of Fairhope, Ala.; two brothers, Charles A., of Houston, and Sam A., of Eufaula, Ala., seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      