
        Charles Jeremy Sopkin, an author, book editor and publisher, died on Thursday at Stanford University Medical Center. He was 62 and had lived in Palo Alto, Calif., for the past five years.
        Mr. Sopkin had been in poor health for several years, and died apparently after a heart attack, said his brother, Elliott.
        Mr. Sopkin spent several years with Doubleday and was managing editor of its Literary Guild book club before forming his own publishing company, Seaview Books, which he later sold to Playboy Enterprises. He was general manager of trade books at PEI Books, which included Playboy Press and Seaview Books.
        His first book, "Money Talks" (Random House, 1964), consisted of interviews with 11 self-made millionaires, including William P. Lear, the jet manufacturer, and Wallace Johnson, a founder of Holiday Inn.
        In 1967, he lined up seven television sets in the living room of his New York home and watched them for a week. His subsequent book, "Seven Glorious Days, Seven Fun-Filled Nights" (Simon & Schuster, 1968), offered the following advice: "I recommend the experience for all Americans, living or dead."
        Later, Mr. Sopkin taped and edited "From Those Wonderful Folks Who Gave You Pearl Harbor: Front-line Dispatches from the Advertising War" (Simon & Schuster, 1970) by Jerry Della Femina, which was on The New York Times best-seller list for one week. The two men also collaborated on "An Italian Grows in Brooklyn" (Little, Brown, 1978). Mr. Sopkin's name appeared on the cover of both books as editor.
        A Chicago native, Mr. Sopkin moved to Atlanta with his parents as a teen-ager when his father, Henry, became conductor of the Atlanta Symphony. He graduated from Emory University, served two years in the United States Coast Guard, and earned a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He worked at The Atlanta Constitution and The Louisville Times and became an editor of The Saturday Review of Literature.
        His marriage to Victoria Mayes ended in divorce.
        In addition to his brother, of Palo Alto, he is survived by a son, Nicholas Mayes Sopkin of New York.
      