
        Dennis Morgan, who appeared in Hollywood films opposite Bette Davis, Betty Grable and Barbara Stanwyck, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Fresno, Calif. He was 85 and lived in neighboring Madera County.
        A family friend said he had had heart problems for some time, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Morgan was in several low-budget movies before his breakthrough as a society snob in the 1940 film "Kitty Foyle." Appearing opposite Ginger Rogers, who won an Oscar for her performance, Mr. Morgan and the actor James Craig were described by Bosley Crowther in a review in The New York Times as "wholly attractive rivals for her love."
        Among his other films were "My Wild Irish Rose," "Desert Song," "God is My Co-Pilot," "Cheyenne" and "Christmas in Connecticut." Getting a Start
        Mr. Morgan, whose real name was Stanley Morner, was born in Prentice, Wis. He became interested in acting and singing in high school. After graduating from the University of Wisconsin, he worked in his father's lumber camps in northern Wisconsin. Later he walked into a radio station in Milwaukee and landed a job as a singer and announcer. He was also a sportscaster for the Green Bay Packers. He studied music in Chicago at the American Conservatory of Music and the Chicago Music College.
        While performing in Chicago in "Carmen," he was spotted by a talent scout, and a screen test was arranged at Warner Brothers. The studio signed him to a long-term contract, changed his name to Dennis Morgan and began casting him in dramatic parts. His career did not click until Warner Brothers lent him to RKO for a leading part in "Kitty Foyle." After that, Warner Brothers gave him leading roles in major films.
        In 1946 he was teamed with Jack Carson as Warner's answer to Bob Hope and Bing Crosby. The pair starred in "Two Guys from Milwaukee," "Two Guys from Texas" and "It's a Great Feeling," with Doris Day.
        Mr. Morgan retired from acting in the late 1960's and became a rancher.
        He is survived by his wife, Lillian, and three children.
      