
        Charles H. King, a social worker known for his work with troubled adolescents, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was cancer, said Chris Dolin, the executive director of Creative Arts Workshop for Kids, a Manhattan agency for which Mr. King was a consultant.
        "He worked with aggressive and violent adolescents and was quite an expert in the field," said Dean Ronald A. Feldman of the Columbia University School of Social Work, from which Mr. King received a master's degree in 1951.
        At his death, Mr. King was also a consultant to Louise Wise Services, a Manhattan agency that provides a variety of social-work services. In that post, he was concerned largely with the problems of adolescent boys and girls who had become unwed parents.
        He worked for the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services before retiring five years ago; he then served briefly as a consultant.
        For 15 years, beginning in 1974, he was the director of the West Side School Day Treatment Program, a school for troubled adolescents of which the Jewish board was a sponsor. He also ran training workshops for the board for years.
        From 1959 to 1967, Mr. King was the executive director of the Wiltwyck School for Boys, in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., a residential school mainly for delinquent and troubled boys. Then, in 1967 and 1968, he was the executive director of Haryou-Act, an agency carrying out anti-poverty activities in Harlem.
        From 1968 to 1974, Mr. King worked variously for Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx, Metropolitan Hospital in Manhattan, the New York State Drug Addiction Control Commission and the New York State Division for Youth.
        He was president of the New York City chapter of the National Association of Social Workers from 1970 to 1972 and of the American Orthopsychiatric Association in 1972 and 1973.
        Mr. King was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree from the Hampton Institute in Virginia in 1941 and was an infantryman in Italy during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Gordon; two sons, Tony and Charlie, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Elise Carnegie of Mount Vernon.
      