
        Boris B. Yegorov, the first physician to fly in space, died in his apartment in Moscow on Monday night, Russian news agencies reported yesterday. He was 57.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Itar-Tass news agency said.
        Dr. Yegorov and two colleagues were launched aboard the Voskhod (Sunrise) 1 spacecraft from the Baikonur space center in Kazakhstan on Oct. 12, 1964, on the seventh manned Soviet space flight. The three astronauts were crammed aboard a spacecraft designed for one. The flight was the first with more than one astronaut, the first in which trained scientists were sent into space and the first in which Russian astronauts flew without space suits, perhaps because there was too little room.
        During the 24-hour, 16-orbit flight, Dr. Yegorov, a 27-year-old lieutenant in the Soviet Army's medical corps, observed the astronauts' reactions to microgravity and drew blood samples. He also experimented with fruit flies and plants.
        One other crew member, Konstantin P. Feoktistov, was an engineer and scientist. The third was the mission commander, Col. Vladimir M. Komarov of the Soviet Air Force.
        Upon their return to Moscow, the astronauts were given a triumphal reception and honored in ceremonies at Red Square. An editorial in The New York Times said: "Space is no longer the exclusive preserve of the astronaut; now many sciences will look forward to preparing some of their practitioners to use their knowledge and skills outside this planet and to bring back new knowledge for the benefit of mankind."
        Dr. Yegorov was born in Moscow on Nov. 26, 1937, the son of Boris G. Yegorov, one of the Soviet Union's leading brain surgeons. The younger Yegorov decided at an early age to go into medical research and entered the First Moscow Medical Institute, where he chose aviation and space medicine as a specialty.
        He worked in several medical research institutes before being trained for space flight. After his flight aboard Voskhod 1, he earned the equivalent of a Ph.D. from Humboldt University in East Berlin. Later in his career he was the head of a number of medical research institutions in Russia. From 1984 to 1982, he was the director of the Scientific-Industrial Center for Medical Biotechnology under the Soviet Health Ministry.
        Dr. Yegorov was awarded some of his nation's highest decorations, including the gold star of the Hero of the Soviet Union and the Order of Lenin.
        He and his wife, Eleonora, also a physician, had a son, Boris.
      