
        Sol A. Shenk, who built a single surplus outlet in Columbus, Ohio, into the Consolidated Stores Corporation, an empire with more than 700 stores and annual sales of $1.1 billion, died yesterday in Columbus, his hometown. He was 83.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said Brady Churches, the company's president.
        Mr. Shenk was best known for his purchase of the remains of DeLorean Motors, the automobile company founded by the former General Motors executive John Z. DeLorean.
        When DeLorean Motors filed for bankruptcy in 1982, Mr. Shenk bought the remaining stocks of the exotic-looking cars with the stainless steel exterior and as many spare parts as he could find.
        "We bought about 2,500 cars and 150 trailer loads of parts and sold every one of the cars," Mr. Churches said. "We sold about half of them to car dealers and retailed the other half."
        The DeLorean was not Mr. Shenk's only encounter with a car with upward-opening doors known as "gull wings." In the mid-1970's he bought what remained of the company that manufactured the Bricklin sports car and apparently did something that neither Mr. DeLorean nor Malcolm Bricklin had been able to do: make money by selling parts to car owners.
        Mr. Churches said the company that would become Consolidated Stores was founded in 1967 by Mr. Shenk, who bought odd lots of merchandise from production overruns, bankruptcies and overstock and sold it through the store in Columbus. As the business grew, he bought and sold vans, jeeps, office equipment, Veg-o-Matics and stocks of car parts, adding stores along the way.
        Today the company, based in Columbus, operates stores with names like Odd Lots, Big Lots, All for $1 and It's a Deal.
        Mr. Shenk tried to start a cable television home-shopping network in the Columbus area in 1988, but lack of response caused it to fold after a few months. "We had to sink a lot of money into it or get out, and he decided not to be in the television business," Mr. Churches said. "He was a little ahead of his time."
        Mr. Shenk retired as chairman of Consolidated in 1989 but retained the title chairman emeritus. "He still came and visited," Mr. Churches said. "He had a caretaker attitude toward the company."
        Mr. Shenk is survived by his wife of 56 years, Florence; his sons, Charles, Richard and William; his sister, Sarah Greene of Great Neck, L.I., and eight grandchildren.
      