
        Richard V. Irizarry, a playwright and a political figure, died yesterday at Beth Israel North Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 38 and lived in the Inwood section of Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, his mother, Margaret, said.
        Besides writing plays, including a new musical, "Newyorico!" under development at the Joseph Papp Public Theater, Mr. Irizarry served for the last four years as an aide to the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger.
        "He was a man of broad and passionate talents," said Andrew Breslau, director of public affairs for Ms. Messinger.
        For years, Mr. Irizarry taught the handicapped, often spending his own money to buy them school supplies and clothes and to take them on outings, his mother said. Two years ago, he ran unsuccessfully in the Democratic primary for the State Senate from the 28th District in the Bronx and Manhattan.
        Mr. Irizarry's first play, presented in 1988 and 1990 by the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, was "Ariano." It was adapted from a story he wrote while he was studying for a master's degree in theater at New York University in 1980. He graduated with a bachelor of science in 1978 from Fordham, where his major was political science.
        Grappling with what it meant to be a Puerto Rican on the American mainland, "Ariano" was an exploration of race and color described by Richard F. Shepard of The New York Times in 1990 as "stronger thematically than it is theatrically."
        He wrote, "The tidal sweeps from shoes-off down-home comedy to supercharged melodrama are very much in the tradition of folk theater."
        In 1990, the play won the National Drama Award of Puerto Rico.
        In the 1980's, he was a special-education teacher at Bushwick High School and an adjunct professor of writing for the College of New Rochelle. Mr. Irizarry was also active on the boards of several organizations. These included the Latino Gay Men of New York, the Hispanic AIDS Forum and Gay Men of African Descent.
        Besides his mother, of Brooklyn, Mr. Irizarry is survived by his companion, James King of Manhattan; his father, William, of Queens; his brother, Robert, of Hollywood, Fla., and his sister, Lisa Irizarry Toro of Queens.
      