
        Frederick R. Weisman, a businessman, philanthropist and avid collector of contemporary art, died on Sunday at his home in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles. He was 82.
        He died after a long struggle with pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        In a career that spanned several art movements and business fortunes, Mr. Weisman amassed an enormous collection of modern and contemporary art, much of which he gave to museums around the country and abroad. He also donated money to causes ranging from the medical and social to the artistic.
        Mr. Weisman was born to Russian immigrants on April 27, 1912, in Minneapolis and grew up in Los Angeles. He studied at the University of Minnesota and at the University of California at Los Angeles. Collecting Postwar Art
        He began his peripatetic business career in wholesale produce. By the time he was 31, he was president of Hunt Foods. He founded a savings and loan association, bought a racetrack and developed a line of drugstore products. In 1970, just as Americans began buying Japanese cars, he established a huge Toyota distributorship.
        In 1938, he married Marcia Simon, sister of the billionaire Norton Simon. The Weismans began collecting art in the late 1940's, starting with the works of American and European postwar artists including Willem de Kooning, Alberto Giacometti and Mark Rothko.
        The Weismans were divorced in 1981 and split the collection. Mrs. Weisman donated some of her half to the newly formed Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art. Mr. Weisman gave many works to museums, but his largest gifts were to two museums named for him, one at Pepperdine University and one at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. He also served for many years as a trustee at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and supported exhibitions and acquisitions at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art.
        Mr. Weisman donated millions of dollars to medical research organizations, the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, the Venice Family Clinic in Los Angeles, and the Devereux Foundation, which provides care for the physically, emotionally and mentally handicapped. Two of Mr. Weisman's children, Nancy and Daniel, are mentally handicapped and live in Devereux facilities
        In addition to those children, Mr. Weisman is survived his second wife, Billie Milam Weisman, whom he married in 1992; a brother, Ted, and a son, Richard, all of Los Angeles.
      