
        Leonard Feather, the dean of American jazz critics and a composer and musician, died on Thursday at Encino Hospital in Encino, Calif.  He was 80 and lived in Sherman Oaks, Calif.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said a friend, Virginia Wicks.
        Mr. Feather's influence in jazz was far-reaching. As a critic, he was an elegant, straightforward stylist, who from the 1930's on chronicled the jazz scene, both in the United States and abroad. Mr. Feather was an early advocate of be-bop, and over the years he maintained, as a critic for The Los Angeles Times, an admirable enthusiasm, regularly searching out and championing younger musicians.
        His talents were not restricted to criticism. As a child in London, he studied piano and clarinet, and taught himself arranging. Mr. Feather became an important record producer and composer, writing pieces for Dinah Washington ("Evil Gal Blues" and "Blowtop Blues") that have frequently been recorded. His biggest hit, "How Blue Can You Get?," was recorded by both Louis Jordan and B. B. King.
        Mr. Feather was also an exceptional talent scout, producing the first recordings of Dinah Washington and Sarah Vaughan. And he was a friend to many musicians. It was the saxophonist Benny Carter, during a stay in England in the early 1930's, who encouraged Mr. Feather to write, and maintained a lifelong friendship with him, as did Duke Ellington, who hired Mr. Feather as a press agent. Many of the major bandleaders of the swing era, including Ellington, Mr. Carter, Lionel Hampton, Count Basie and Louis Armstrong either recorded his pieces or his arrangements.
        In 1949, Mr. Feather wrote "Inside Bebop," one of the first and more important books on that style. In 1955, he compiled the Encyclopedia of Jazz, which has regularly been updated. He was at work on a new volume, with the critic Ira Gitler, at the time of his death. Over the years, Mr. Feather wrote and edited for Metronome, Downbeat, Esquire, Playboy and Jazz Times magazines.
        "Leonard was for a while the most influential person in jazz," said Dan Morgenstern, the director of the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers University. "He started very young and covered a tremendous slice of jazz history."
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Feather moved to Los Angeles, and began writing for The Los Angeles Times. He also taught at the University of California at Los Angeles, the University of California at Riverside and California State University at Northridge.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane; a daughter, Lorraine Feather of La Crescenta, Calif., and a sister, Gwen Cannon of London.
      