
        Michael Peters, the Tony Award-winning choreographer and director, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 46.
        The cause was AIDS, said his publicity agent, Simon Halls.
        Mr. Peters shared a Tony with Michael Bennett for their choreography for "Dreamgirls," the 1981 Broadway musical based on the story of the Supremes, and won two Emmy Awards, for choreographing "Liberty Weekend Closing Ceremonies" and "The Jacksons: An American Dream."  Art of the Video
        Mr. Peters was also among the first to establish a name for the choreography of music videos, in the process helping to raise their production values and claims to being serious works of popular culture.
        His work with Michael Jackson on the "Beat It" and "Thriller" videos, in which Mr. Peters also danced, was a sophisticated blend of musical theater and pop values. Mr. Peters was also vocal in pressing publicly for more acknowledgement of choreographers in film and began a campaign last year to push for an Oscar for choreography.
        Mr. Peters was born in Brooklyn, and performed with modern-dance choreographers and company directors in the 1960's and 70's, among them Talley Beatty, Alvin Ailey, Bernice Johnson and Fred Benjamin. He also created dances for the concert stage before his first major breakthrough in theater in 1979 in the Broadway musical "Comin' Uptown," an all-black version of Dickens's "Christmas Carol," which starred Gregory Hines. He directed his first Broadway musical, "Leader of the Pack," in 1985.
        Mr. Peters also choreographed and directed videos for Diana Ross, Lionel Richie, Billy Joel, Pat Benatar and Earth Wind and Fire, whose world tour he also directed. For Film and TV
        His film credits include choreography for "Sister Act 2: Back in the Habit," "What's Love Got to Do With It," "Sarafina!," "The Mambo Kings" and "The Five Heartbeats." He directed the television special "New Kids on the Block" and segments of "Knots Landing," "Fresh Prince of Bel Air" and "A Different World."
        He is survived by his mother, Rebecka Peters; two aunts, Ruth Seff and Hatti Sieffert, and an uncle, George Ross. A memorial service is to be held on Sept. 17 at the Performing Arts Center in Van Nuys, Calif.
      