
        Alexander Louis Levine, a commercial real-estate developer and philanthropist who gave $5 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art last year, died on Saturday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Verona, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his daughter Peggy Tagliarino.
        Mr. Levine, who was known as A.L., was president of Levco Shopping Centers, which owns and manages shopping centers at sites ranging from upstate New York to Florida.
        His gift to the museum underwrote the transformation of a former sculpture court on the mezzanine of its Lila Acheson Wallace Wing into the Blanche and A. L. Levine Court, a gallery for 20th-century painting and sculpture, which opened last year.
        Yesterday, the museum's director, Philippe de Montebello, called the project "the renovation of a great gallery, a beautiful space." He said, "A. L. was a very generous benefactor and a great friend" of the museum.
        Years ago, Mr. Levine also gave the museum the Picasso painting "Standing Nude and Seated Musketeer." Last year he said: "I kept 50 percent of it at first because I loved it so much. I had it six months a year and the museum had it six months. Now they have it completely."
        His 1993 gift stemmed from a talk he had with William S. Lieberman, chairman of the museum's department of 20th-century art. "I said I was getting on in years," Mr. Levine recalled later, "and thinking of giving a very nice gift to the Metropolitan because I love it and my wife loves it."
        The beneficiaries of his largess and other assistance included medical research and cultural and educational institutions and charities in New York, New Jersey and Palm Beach. Among them were Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and Carnegie Hall. He was on a variety of boards of directors.
        Mr. Levine was born in southern Russia and came to the United States with his family when he was 3. He grew up in Paterson, N.J. and founded his own business at 18.
        His marriage to Bertha Watson ended in divorce.
        In addition to his daughter Ms. Tagliarino of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 39 years, the former Blanche Shulman Stein; three other daughters, Carole Ann Steiger of Ridgewood, Dr. Claire Lehr of Irvine, Calif., and Elizabeth Horowitz of North Caldwell, N.J.; a son, Peter of Short Hills, N.J.; 10 grandchildren; five great-grandchildren, and two brothers, Hy of Hackensack, N.J., and William of Hollywood, Fla.
      