
        Hollis B. Chenery, an economist who served the World Bank and the Agency for International Development and was a Harvard professor, died on Thursday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 77.
        The cause was pneumonia, and he had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, said his daughter Teresa Seamster.
        Mr. Chenery was the World Bank's vice president for development policy from 1972 to 1982. In 1977 the bank, which then administered $40 billion of loans, made a fundamental change in its development strategy by trying to focus more on projects meeting the needs of the very poorest people.
        In an interview then, Mr. Chenery said: "We're looking at what governments are doing on income distribution. It's one of the considerations now in making project loans."
        Mr. Chenery joined the United States Agency for International Developent in 1961, and rose to become an assistant admnistrator. He left in 1965.
        He was a professor of economics at Stanford from 1952 to 1961, a Guggenheim fellow in 1961 and a professor of economics at Harvard from 1965 to 1970, and again after leaving the World Bank.
        The books of which he was author or co-author include "Industrialization and Growth," "Patterns of Development" and "Studies in Developmental Planning."
        Mr. Chenery was born in Richmond, grew up in Virginia and Pelham Manor, N.Y., and earned bachelor's degrees from the Universities of Arizona and the University of Oklahoma. He was an Army Air officer in World War II and received master's degrees from California Institute of Technology and the University of Virginia. He was awarded a Ph.D. by Harvard in 1950.
        His 1942 marriage to Louise Seamster ended in divorce in 1964. In 1970 he married Mary Montgomery; she died in 1993.
        He is survived by two daughters, Mrs. Seamster of Santa Fe and Sister Hollis Ann Chenery, a Holy Rosary Sister, of Nova Maraba, Brazil; a granddaughter; a sister, Helen Chenery, of Lexington, Ky., and three stepsons.
      