
        Langbourne Meade Williams Jr., the retired chairman of a company now known as Freeport-McMoRan Inc., died on Thursday at his country home near Rapidan, Va. He was 91.
        Mr. Williams was born in Richmond and was the descendant of a family that had been socially prominent since the founding of the country. One ancestor was Edmund Randolph, who was the Attorney General in George Washington's first Cabinet and in part of his second and also served as Governor of Virginia. Another, Bartholomew Dandridge, was Treasurer of Virginia and the brother of Martha Washington.
        Mr. Williams graduated from the Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Va. in 1921 and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia in 1924. Two years later he received a masters degree in business administration from Harvard University.
        He worked for a year in New York at the investment banking firm of Lee, Higginson & Company before returning to Richmond to join the family investment firm, John L. Williams & Sons.
        One of the Williams firm's investments was in the Freeport-Texas Company, a sulfur-mining company based in New York. Concerned that the management of the company was not moving aggressively to increase reserves, Mr. Williams and some associates decided to become corporate raiders, waging a proxy fight in 1928.
        The existing management fought back, at one point filing a $1 million libel suit against Mr. Williams and his associates because they had made accusations that Freeport-Texas managers were working more for themselves than the shareholders. Two years later, in 1930, the Williams group prevailed by less than 4,000 shares. Mr. Williams, then 27, was sent to the company's headquarters in New York as vice president, treasurer and a director of the company. Company Branched Out
        Three years later, he advanced to president of the company, with John Hay Whitney, a prominent New York investor, named chairman. Mr. Williams stayed with the company as president until 1958 and as chairman until 1967, building the company's operations to the point where it became the largest producer of sulfur in the country and branching out into other minerals like nickel.
        The company's nickel operations brought Mr. Williams into conflict with the Federal Government, which stockpiled the metal as a strategic commodity during the cold war. The chairman of a House Government Operations subcommittee, Representative Jack Brooks, Democrat of Texas, denounced Mr. Williams for "disgraceful, ethically reprehensible snooping," for hiring an investigator to look into the private life of a General Services Administration official supervising a nickel plant in Cuba.
        Mr. Williams responded that the official was so hostile "that we felt it necessary to find out whether there was some special reason for his attitude." Freeport's nickel-mining operations in Cuba were seized after Fidel Castro came to power in 1959.
        Today, Freeport-McMoRan, the product of a 1981 merger of the Freeport Minerals Company and the McMoRan Oil and Gas Company, is a mining company with operations worldwide and revenues last year of about $1.6 billion. Its headquarters were in New York from 1912 until they were moved to New Orleans in 1985.
        For many years, Mr. Williams lived in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y., and had a town house on East 71st Street in Manhattan. He also raised cattle and horses on his 400-acre farm in Virginia. Helped With Marshall Plan
        In 1948, Mr. Williams took a leave from the company to help with the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe and was later a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He was also a trustee of the George C. Marshall Research Foundation.
        He became a governor of New York Hospital in 1941 and served until 1961, when he was named a life, or honorary, governor until his death. He was also a former member of the Commerce Department's business advisory council and a former chairman of the Conference Board.
        He married Elizabeth Goodrich Stillman in September 1930 in a ceremony that news accounts at the time said "united two families that have been prominent in New York, Connecticut and Virginia since Colonial times." Mrs. Williams died in 1956.  Three years later, Mr. Williams married Frances Pinckney Breckinridge, who died in 1984.
        His survivors include a sister, Anne Williams Lind of Oakville, Ontario; a stepdaughter, Isabella Breckinridge of Washington, and a stepson, Dr. John Cabell Breckinridge of Lakewood, Colo.
      