
        Dr. Davidson S. H. W. Nicol, who was an Under Secretary General of the United Nations and the executive director of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, died on Sept. 20 at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge, England. He was 70 and lived in Cambridge and in Freetown in his homeland, the West African country of Sierra Leone.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter-in-law, Ann Nicol.
        Dr. Nicol, a physician, was his country's chief United Nations delegate from 1969 to 1971 and headed a United Nations committee on decolonization. He was president of the Security Council in September 1970 when it unanimously called for the release of people "held as a result of interference in international travel." At the time, three aircraft had been hijacked to the Jordanian desert by Palestinians, and their occupants were hostages.
        He was Under Secretary General and head of the institute, known as Unitar, from 1972 until he retired from the United Nations in 1982. The institute's headquarters was then in New York and is now in Geneva. It carries out research and training, mainly of diplomats and officials of developing countries. The training is in diplomacy, negotiation, conflict resolution, economic and social development and other subjects.
        Davidson Sylvester Hector Willoughby Nicol was born in Freetown, studied at Cambridge University and elsewhere in Britain and earned B.A., M.A., M.D. and Ph.D. degrees. He taught medicine and did medical research in Britain and Nigeria and became principal of Fourah Bay College in Sierra Leone and a vice Chancellor of the University of Sierra Leone.
        His many and varied writings include fiction that he wrote under the pen name of Abioseh Nicol. He was a co-writer of the book "The United Nations Security Council: Towards Greater Effectiveness" (1982, Unitar) and a co-editor of the book "Regionalism and the New International Economic Order" (1981,Pergamon).
        In his later years, he was president of the World Federation of United Nations Associations and taught at the University of South Carolina and the Center of International Studies at Cambridge University.
        His marriage to Dr. Marjorie Johnston Nicol, also a physician, ended in divorce, but his family said that when he died, she was at his bedside, along with his children.
        He is survived by two daughters, Aina Addo-Yobo of Reading, England, and Ayo Nicol of Los Angeles; three sons, Charles Nicol of Glen Ridge, N.J.; Dr. Olu Nicol of Toronto, and Dr. Sylvester Nicol of Cleveland; a brother, Tani Nicol of Freetown, and eight grandchildren.
      