
        Dr. Julius Segal, a psychologist and author who for 12 years was the director of the Office of Scientific Information at the National Institute of Mental Health, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, said Dr. Robert Cohen, a family friend and the former director of clinical and behavioral research at the institute.
        Dr. Segal was an expert on the trauma faced by prisoners of war and hostages; he studied and treated veterans from the Korean War and the Vietnam War and the Americans taken hostage by Iran in 1979. Most recently, he focused on child development issues.
        He wrote a number of books, including a widely used textbook, "Psychology: An Introduction," written with Jerome Kagan and Ernest Havemann, and "Sleep," written with Gay Gaer Luce. His most recent book was "Winning Life's Toughest Battles: Roots of Human Resilience," published in 1986.
        He wrote more than 100 government and research reports, including a 25-year review of the mental health institute's activities, published in 1975. He also wrote frequently for newspapers and magazines and was a contributing editor and monthly columnist for Parents magazine.
        He started at the mental health institute in 1959 as chief of program analysis, became the information director in 1974 and retired in 1986. He was a research scientist at the operations research office of George Washington University from 1951 to 1959 and a lecturer in psychology at the university. He also taught at the University of Maryland and Montgomery College.
        Dr. Segal was a member of the President's Commission on Mental Health in 1977-78.
        Dr. Segal, a native of Scranton, Pa., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Scranton in 1948, a master's degree in psychology from Fordham University in 1951 and a Ph.D. in psychology from Catholic University in 1952.
        He is survived by his wife, Zelda; a daughter, Rebecca Cooper, of North Potomac, Md.; a son, Theodore, of Bethesda; a sister, Mildred Harris of Scranton; a brother, Joseph, of Rockville, Md., and four grandchildren.
      