
        Sister Mary Margaret Johanning, a lecturer and consultant on theological affairs and the former international community leader of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, died on Saturday at St. Marys Health Center in Jefferson City, Mo. She was 57 and lived at St. Peter's Convent in Jefferson City.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Jefferson City said.
        Sister Mary Margaret was elected to the Provincial Council of the School Sisters of Notre Dame in St. Louis in 1971 and served as the international leader in Rome from 1977 to 1987. In that position, she led the community through a revision of its constitution, enabling the nuns to expand on their roles as teachers in Catholic schools to add a variety of activities, including parish ministry. The order has 7,500 women serving in 35 countries.
        In 1989, Sister Mary Margaret became Chancellor of the Jefferson City diocese, a position reached by only a few women in the Catholic Church in the United States. As such, she served as Bishop Michael F. McAuliffe's principal administrator for 87 parishes and their 37 parochial schools.
        She held the title of Chancellor at her death and was on leave from that position. She also directed the planning commission of the diocese and the office of leadership services. As of the end of 1993, the diocese counted 87,000 parishioners.
        Sister Mary Margaret, a native of Glasgow, Mo., was an economics graduate of Notre Dame College in St. Louis. She earned a master's degree in theology and a doctorate in religious studies at Marquette University in Milwaukee.
        Beginning in 1962 as an elementary school teacher in a St. Louis parochial school, she was soon lecturing widely at workshops and retreats in the United States and abroad. Before her election to the Provincial Council in St. Louis, she was an instructor in theology at her alma mater, Notre Dame College.
        She entered the Congregation of the School Sisters of Notre Dame in 1958 and professed her final vows in 1966.
        Sister Mary Margaret is survived by her parents, Bernard and Gertrude Johanning of Glasgow; four brothers, Jerome, of Mound, Minn., Myrl, of Shawnee, Kan., Bob, of Glasgow, and Don, of Sturgeon, Mo., and two sisters, Joetta Jones of Jasper, Ind., and Cindy Monnig of Jefferson City.
      