
        Virginia E. Montes, a former national secretary and lobbyist for the National Organization for Women, died Thursday at her home in Atlanta. She was 50.
        The cause was a stroke, the Atlanta medical examiner's office said.
        Ms. Montes, a native of Honduras, had been active in NOW for 13 years and was the first Latin American woman to serve as a national officer of the organization.
        She was elected secretary of NOW and of its national political action committee in 1991 and served until last year. In the spring of 1993 she led the organization's defense of Lani Guinier, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was nominated by President Clinton to head the Justice Department's civil rights division. The President withdrew the nomination after conservatives criticized Ms. Guinier for papers she had written on ways for blacks to increase their influence in elections.
        Earlier, Ms. Montes was involved in NOW's lobbying efforts while serving as its government liaison officer. In two terms on the organization's national board she headed the committee for racial diversity.
        Ms. Montes, who was known as Ginny, came to the United States when she was 10 years old. She was a delegate to three Democratic national conventions and frequently lobbied for civil rights groups in the halls of Southern state legislatures. One cause she advocated was the redrawing of election districts to strengthen minority representation.
        In 1980 she became director of legislative research for the Southern Regional Council, based in Georgia. For a time she directed the Georgia Housing Coalition, but later returned to the council, where she was a senior consultant.
        She also conducted leadership training activities for NOW, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Women's Political Caucus and other groups.
        Ms. Montes is survived by a daughter, Rebecca Albury of Atlanta; her mother, Greta Hyde Montes of Tampa, Fla.; two sisters, Greta Montes of Wayne, Pa., and Jacqueline Zaborski of West Palm Beach, Fla., and three brothers, Robert, of Clearwater, Fla., and Ronald and Hiram, both of Tampa.
      