
        Dr. Myron S. Malkin, a physicist who was the first director of the space shuttle program and a former Defense Department official, died on Monday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 70 and lived in Bethesda.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        From 1973 to 1980, Dr. Malkin led the effort to bring together all the components that became the space shuttle, which remains the nation's principal space launching vehicle.
        He took the concept of a re-useable, piloted space plane from the drawing boards to reality. Known as an efficient and sometimes cantankerous manager, he pushed to get the shuttle orbiter, its external fuel tank and twin solid-fueled booster rockets built on time and integrated as a system.
        "He was instrumental in getting the shuttle developed," said Dr. Jerry Grey, aerospace and science policy director for the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and the author of a history of the shuttle program. "He really put the pieces together."
        Dr. Malkin left the National Aeronautics and Space Administration before the shuttle's first flight, in April 1981, but was in the control room as an agency consultant during the historic event to which he had contributed so much effort.
        After leaving the space agency, he became a vice president for research and development at Fairchild Industries before starting his consulting firm, Malkin Associates Inc.
        Born in Youngstown, Ohio, Dr. Malkin enlisted in the Marine Corps during World War II and landed with the 5th Marine Division at Iwo Jima. He started attending Yale College while in the service and graduated with honors with a degree in physics in 1948, becoming a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He subsequently received his M.S. and Ph.D degrees in nuclear physics from Yale University.
        He was a faculty member in the physics department at Yale from 1952 to 1961, when he left to join the General Electric Company, where he stayed until 1969. At General Electric, he worked on missile nose cones and re-entry vehicles for strategic ballistic missiles, and served as general manager for the Air Force's proposed Manned Orbiting Laboratory, a small space station program that was canceled before it began.
        From 1969 to 1972, he was president of NUS Corporation, a Rockville, Md., company involved in nuclear power plant engineering. In 1972, Dr. Malkin was named the first Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Technical Evaluation, a job he held until going to NASA.
        Dr. Malkin is survived by his wife of 46 years, Dr. Jocelyn Schoen Malkin, a psychiatrist; a son, Peter K. of White Plains; a daughter, Martha Malkin Zornow of Manhattan; a brother, Gerald A., of Youngstown, Ohio; two sisters, Charlotte R., of Youngstown, and Elsa Brenner of Van Wert, Ohio, and three grandchildren.
      