
        William A. Leonard 2d, a former president of CBS News who helped oversee the creation of "60 Minutes" and was a pioneer of magazine-style television journalism, died yesterday of a stroke at Laurel Regional Hospital in Laurel, Md.
        He was 78 and lived in Washington, said Tom Goodman, a CBS News spokesman.
        Mr. Leonard, who worked at the network most of his adult life as a correspondent, producer and then executive, was perhaps best known in the television industry as the man who chose Dan Rather, then a "60 Minutes" correspondent, to succeed Walter Cronkite as anchor of the "CBS Evening News" in 1981.
        As chief of the network's news division from 1979 to 1982, Mr. Leonard was also responsible for creating "Sunday Morning," one of the network's longest-running and most successful news programs.
        He envisioned "Sunday Morning" as a news program for people who did not watch television, with a leisurely pace more like that of leafing through a Sunday newspaper. The program continues to dominate its time slot after 16 years on the air.
        After leaving the Navy in 1945, Mr. Leonard joined CBS as a radio anchorman for "This Is New York" on the network's flagship station, WABC, which later became WCBS. He continued with the program when it moved to television as "Eye on New York," on WCBS-TV, with Mr. Leonard as its host for 15 years. It is regarded as a forerunner of current magazine-style news programs.
        Mr. Leonard's witty, penetrating interview style led the network to choose him to become a floor reporter for the 1952, 1956 and 1960 political conventions. He became a full-time CBS News correspondent in 1959, and at the request of Fred W. Friendly, then head of the news division, joined the group that would later produce the award-winning "CBS Reports" documentary series.
        Among the documentaries that Mr. Leonard helped produce and which included his voice as narrator, were "Hunger in America," a critical look at the Department of Agriculture, and "The Selling of the Pentagon," which examined the Defense Department's expensive efforts to sway public opinion in favor of the military. Several years earlier, Mr. Leonard persuaded Gen. Rafael Trujillo, the dictator of the Dominican Republic, to give his only full-ranging interview, just weeks before the fall of his government.
        From 1961 to 1965, Mr. Leonard led the newly formed news election unit at CBS, which worked with Louis Harris, the pollster, and I.B.M. to develop the exit-poll method of estimating election results, now a familiar part of network election broadcasts.
        In 1964, the technique was first used to allow Mr. Cronkite to declare Henry Cabot Lodge the winner in the New Hampshire Republican Presidential primary with only 8 percent of the vote reported, 39 minutes before any other network.
        Mr. Leonard continued to supervise political coverage at the network until 1972, but by 1965 he had moved almost completely into management, as a vice president and later senior vice president of CBS News programming, with responsibility for originating long-format news programs, including "60 Minutes."
        Mr. Rather, co-anchor of the evening news, said, "I owe him a lot, and so does everyone else who cares about television news of integrity."
        In 1975, Mr. Leonard went to Washington as vice president of government relations for CBS. In 1979, he became president of CBS News, the first on-air broadcaster ever named to that job.
        He retired in 1982, after CBS broke long-standing corporate policy to allow him to stay on after he reached the mandatory retirement age of 65. No other CBS executive besides William S. Paley, the network's chairman, had been allowed to stay on past retirement age.
        After retiring Mr. Leonard lived in Washington with his second wife, the former Norma Kaphan Wallace, ex-wife of the "60 Minutes" correspondent, Mike Wallace.
        He is survived by his wife and by five sons from his first marriage, Will of Panama City, Fla.; Andrew of Portland, Ore.; Nicolas of Sacramento, Calif.; James of Hawaii; and Oliver of Washington. He is also survived by a stepson of Mrs. Leonard's first marriage, Chris Wallace of Washington, an ABC News correspondent, and 15 grandchildren. A second stepson, Peter Wallace, died in 1962 in Greece.
      