
        Gen. Yang Dezhi, a Chinese military leader for more than half a century and a former Army Chief of Staff who opposed the Tiananmen Square crackdown, died on Tuesday, the official New China News Agency reported. He was 83. The cause of death was not given.
        General Yang's military career stretched from the creation of the Communist army in 1927 to China's invasion of Vietnam in 1979. He made his name as a daring military leader during the fabled Long March and was a top commander of Chinese forces during the Korean War.
        He also proved skilled in politics, avoiding repeated purges, making a successful transition from the reign of Mao Zedong to that of Deng Xiaoping and eventually rising to the Communist Party Politburo.
        General Yang was born in 1910 into a poor family in the town of Liling in Hunan Province. He joined the Communists in 1927, when Mao began the uprising in Hunan that marked the founding of the Communist army.
        In 1934 and 1935 he commanded a vanguard unit in the Long March, the Communist Army's 6,000-mile retreat before the advancing Nationalist forces. He established his reputation in May 1935, when the Communist army was threatened with being pinned down by the Nationalists along the Dadu River in Sichuan Province. General Yang's unit surprised the Nationalist forces on one bank of the river, seizing the only ferry, then crossed and defeated the Nationalists on the other side, clearing the way for the Communist army's escape.
        He moved steadily up the military and political ladders, becoming a member of the Communist Party Central Committee in 1969.
        In 1979, General Yang was deputy commander of Chinese forces in their brief incursion into Vietnam, and the failures of that venture did not appear to hurt his fortunes. The next year, he was named Chief of Staff of the Army, a post he held for seven years. He was on the Politburo from 1982 to 1987.
        As Chief of Staff, General Yang oversaw deep cuts in the size of the military, over the objections of hard-liners, many of them holdovers from the Mao era.
        In May of 1989, two weeks before the army crushed demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, General Yang was one of seven retired military leaders to sign a letter warning Prime Minister Li Peng against a crackdown and saying the military should not enter the city.
      