
        Jerome B. Wiesner, the influential science adviser to President John F. Kennedy who went on to be president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Friday night at his home in Watertown, Mass., outside Boston. He was 79.
        Dr. Wiesner died after an unspecified illness that lasted several months, said an M.I.T. spokesman, Ken Campbell. He suffered a stroke several years ago, but battled back to recover his ability to speak as well as to walk with relative ease.
        An electrical engineer who became an analyst of military technology, Dr. Wiesner worked with President Kennedy in the 1960 campaign. He took the adviser's post, with the title of Special Assistant to the President for science and technology, in February 1961, becoming the chief planner, arbitrator and counselor of science within the Administration.
        Dr. Wiesner was the third person to hold the title. His predecessors, both scientists who served under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, were Dr. James B. Killian of M.I.T. and Dr. George B. Kistiakowsky of Harvard University. Dr. Wiesner stepped down in 1964, early in the Johnson Administration.
        Dr. Wiesner played what a 1964 editorial in The New York Times described as "a key role in trying to work a sensible public policy out of the increasingly complex interrelationships between Government and science."
        His many activities in the Kennedy era included much preliminary work on the treaty to ban all but underground nuclear tests that was signed in 1963 by the United States, the Soviet Union and Britain.
        Shortly after President Kennedy was assassinated on Nov. 22, 1963, Dr. Wiesner wrote that the treaty "can inspire us to persist in the efforts to avoid the nuclear holocaust that so haunted him."
        Dr. Wiesner's work toward the treaty included suggesting to a high-ranking Soviet science official, Yevgeny K. Fyodorov, that Washington and Moscow could compromise on the number of on-site inspections to be held each year. Not long afterward, Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, wrote to President Kennedy saying, "We are ready to meet you halfway." The two sides were then able to work out the agreement.
        After his Washington service, Dr. Wiesner became dean of the School of Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where his career of teaching, research and administration began in 1942. He became provost, the university's senior academic officer, in 1966 before beginning his nine years as its 13th president.
        Dr. Wiesner did much to expand the university's instruction and research in the humanities, including the social sciences and the fine arts. He also put emphasis on the application of science and engineering to housing, health care, mass transportation, urban blight and other problem-ridden practical fields.
        After retiring as president, he had the title of institute professor, the university's highest faculty rank, which he held from 1962 to 1971. He was also a founding member of the International Foundation for the Survival and Development of Humanity, a group of American and Soviet scientists and educators that raised money for research on global problems. Among the board members was Andrei Sakharov, the Soviet dissident and winner of the Nobel peace prize.
        After retirement, Dr. Wiesner remained an outspoken critic of the nuclear arms race. "If the United States doubles the number of nuclear weapons and delivery systems, the U.S.S.R. does the same," he said in an interview in 1981. "If we develop a new weapon, they do, too.
        "We desperately need to break this cycle of escalation before it becomes totally unmanageable," he added, arguing that each round of increases "produces a situation more dangerous for both countries."
        In 1993, Dr. Wiesner collaborated with two other M.I.T. scientists, Philip Morrison and Kosta Tsipis, in calling for deep cuts in American military procurement and expenditures. They published their proposals in a booklet, "Beyond the Looking Glass: The United States Military in 2000 and Later."
        Early in his career, however, Dr. Wiesner advocated and assisted in developing weapons systems. At the end of World War II, after doing work on radar at M.I.T., he went to Los Alamos to develop electronic components that were used in the atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll in 1946.
        In 1957, as staff director of a Presidential committee on military policy, he argued fervently for developing and manufacturing ballistic missiles.
        In his long career as a scientist and teacher, Dr. Wiesner also became an expert in microwave theory, communications science and engineering, signal processing and aspects of radio and radar. After being prominent in the development of radar in the 1940's, he went on to do important work concerning radio transmission from the earth's upper atmosphere.
        The qualities that brought Dr. Wiesner to the fore in science, government and education, friends said, included driving energy and ambition, an innovative intellect and an ability to see through to a subject's core.
        In the Kennedy Administration, his influence arose partly from a personal rapport with the President and partly from wide-ranging activities that gave him a strong voice in budgetary matters for research and development and in filling Government scientific posts.
        As the Kennedy era progressed, Dr. Philip H. Abelson, editor of Science, the journal of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, declared in a speech, Dr. Wiesner "accumulated and exercised more visible and invisible power than any scientist in the peacetime history of this country."
        Dr. Abelson also said Dr. Wiesner had acquired too much secret power that could result in "corruption either of the intellect or of the purse." Dr. Wiesner called the accusation "uncalled for, in bad taste and wrong."
        In Washington, the matters Dr. Wiesner dealt with included disarmament, long-range policy and management problems of science and technology, the improvement of scientific education and the stimulation of scientific research.
        It was while Dr. Wiesner was science adviser that the decision was reached by President Kennedy that the United States should land astronauts on the moon, but Dr. Wiesner was one of those who argued against the landing method that was eventually used.
        Jerome Bert Wiesner was born May 30, 1915, the son of a shopkeeper in Dearborn, Mich. As a boy he showed a precocious flair for technology. By the time he was a teen-ager, he had set up a private telephone network to communicate with his friends.
        He once tried to use a kite for stringing telephone line but the kite swooped too low and dropped the line across an electric-power line, plunging the neighborhood into darkness.
        Jerry, as he was known, went on to study at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, where he assisted in the electrical engineering laboratory while working as a cook, dishwasher and bartender to finance his education.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics and electrical engineering in 1937, a master's in electrical engineering in 1938 and a doctorate, also in electrical engineering, in 1950.
        In 1942, after the United States entered World War II, he joined the staff of M.I.T.'s Radiation Laboratory and soon displayed a capacity for scientific leadership, becoming head of the Laboratory's Project Cadillac, which was concerned with the development of airborne radar.
        It was in 1945 that he moved to the staff of the University of California's Los Alamos Laboratory in New Mexico before becoming an assistant professor of electrical engineering at M.I.T. the next year. In 1950 he became a full professor. In addition to his teaching, he was director of M.I.T.'s Research Laboratory of Electronics from 1952 to 1961.
        Dr. Wiesner was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, a life member of the M.I.T. Corporation and, over the years, a director or trustee of numerous companies and organizations.
        He wrote numerous articles in professional journals and was the author of a book, "Where Science and Politics Meet," published in 1961, and the co-author, with Abram Chayes, of another, "A.B.M.: An Evaluation of the Decision to Deploy an Anti-Ballistic Missile System," published in 1969.
        Dr. Wiesner is survived by his wife, Laya; a daughter, Dr. Elizabeth Wiesner of Branford, Conn., and three sons, Stephen, of Mitzpeh Ramon, Israel; Zachary, of Watertown, Mass., and Joshua, of Cambridge, Mass.
        Correction:  November 2, 1994, Wednesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Oct. 23 about Jerome B. Wiesner, the science adviser to President John F. Kennedy and a former president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, omitted the source of a 1981 quotation in which Dr. Wiesner criticized the nuclear arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union. The quotation first appeared in the January 1981 issue of Technology Review.
      