
        Howard Evans Quirk, a former executive officer of the Victoria Foundation of New Jersey, one of the country's oldest and largest community-oriented philanthropies, died on Sunday at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 70.
        The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said.
        During his tenure at Victoria, which is based in Montclair, he gave millions of dollars to nonprofit agencies in and around Newark. The foundation's grants are channeled to childhood and elementary education, urban development, family planning, social services, minority training and leadership programs.
        Mr. Quirk was the executive officer from 1968 to 1989, after which he remained personally involved in community work and the foundation. The foundation was founded in 1924 by the Chubb family, prominent in insurance.
        Over the last decade, Mr. Quirk developed a firm attachment to the Cathedral of St. John the Divine on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Until last Friday, he conducted a 90-minute "Vertical Tour" of the church, the world's largest Gothic cathedral, several times a month.
        Mr. Quirk's love for grand structures was awakened when he visited the cathedrals of Europe during a sabbatical from the Victoria Foundation. He was the author of "The Living Cathedral: St. John the Divine" (Crossroad), which was published last year to mark the Episcopal cathedral's 100th anniversary.
        Born in Manhattan within sight of St. John's, Mr. Quirk interrupted his education to serve in the Maritime Service and the merchant marine in World War II. He graduated from the State University at Cortland, N.Y., received a master's of divinity from Bangor Theological College and served as a Congregational minister at parishes in Maine and in Cortland and Ithaca, N.Y. He was an administrator at Cornell University before he joined the foundation in Montclair.
        He is survived by his wife of 42 years, Barbara Benjamin Quirk; a son, Allen, of Waltham, Mass.; three daughters, Priscilla Quirk-Garvan of Newton, Mass., Rebecca Kilbourne of Seattle, and Bronwyn Mohlke of Montclair; a sister, Lois Racz of Brewster, Mass., and three grandsons.
      