
        Rabbi Shlomo Goren, a former Chief Rabbi of Israel who opposed Israeli cooperation with Yasir Arafat and the evacuation of Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, died early yesterday in Israel. He was 77.
        Rabbi Goren had suffered a heart attack on Monday and was taken to Ichilov Hospital in Tel Aviv, The Associated Press reported. Yoel Amichai, the director of the rabbi's seminary in Jerusalem, said, "He was studying Torah until the last minute."
        Rabbi Goren was Israel's Ashkenazic Chief Rabbi from 1972 until 1983. Ashkenazic Jews are those of Eastern and Central European origin, as distinct from Sephardic Jews, who have Mediterranean, Middle Eastern and North African backgrounds.
        The rabbi was elected for a five-year term beginning in 1972, and his tenure was extended. But he was prevented by a 1980 law from running for re-election after mid-March 1983, and an electoral college of rabbis and laymen chose Rabbi Avraham Shapira to succeed him.
        Rabbi Goren commanded wide respect among his countrymen, for his erudition and for his past service in the Israeli Army and in the Haganah military underground in Palestine before Israel's birth.
        Before becoming a Chief Rabbi of Israel, he rose to be his country's chief military chaplain and, in that capacity, became the first person to lead a prayer service at the Western Wall after Israeli soldiers captured East Jerusalem in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
        When the Israeli troops arrived at the wall, which is the most sacred site in Judaism, Rabbi Goren blew a shofar, or ram's horn, in celebration.
        In recent years, while Israel reached an accommodation with the Palestine Liberation Organization, Rabbi Goren, who opposed that reconciliation, was repeatedly outspoken, controversial or both. Earlier this year, he denounced Rabbi Moshe Hirsh, the only Jew in Yasir Arafat's Palestinian self-rule council, as "a criminal, a fraud."
        Going further, Rabbi Goren asserted that Jews were required by religious law to kill Mr. Arafat because he endangered Jewish lives. But in the main, the rabbi was waved off by Israelis at the time as an extremist of questionable influence.
        In December 1993, he added fuel to an existing debate by asserting that the Law of Moses overshadowed Government policies and that Israeli soldiers must disobey any order to evacuate Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
        His call was assailed by Cabinet ministers. Some called for an official investigation that could lead to a court-martial for the rabbi, who was a major general in the army reserve.
        Another reserve army general, Housing Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, contended that Rabbi Goren had incited troops to "rebel against the Government."
        But in reply the rabbi argued that the overriding requirement was "first of all to obey the Law of Moses."
        That controversy was academic, since the Israeli Government said it had no plans to evacuate the roughly 130,000 residents of the 140 Jewish settlements in those territories.
        Rabbi Goren was born in Poland, was taken to what was then Palestine in 1925, studied at Hebrew University and was elected a Chief Rabbi of Tel Aviv before rising to be a Chief Rabbi of Israel.
        He is survived by a wife, two daughters and a son.
      