
        Charles E. Stewart Jr., who presided over the criminal trials of racketeers and shady Wall Street manipulators and a host of tangled civil cases during 22 years as a Federal judge in Manhattan, died on Friday at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie. He was 78 years old and lived in Pawling, N.Y.
        Judge Stewart, who retired last July 1, had been in failing health for more than a year and suffered heart attacks last November and December. He entered the hospital with phlebitis on Oct. 20 and died of heart failure, said his son, Charles E. Stewart 3d.
        A Harvard-educated lawyer, Mr. Stewart was a prominent and successful specialist in antitrust law in 1972 when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him to the Federal bench in Manhattan, where many of the nation's most complex financial cases are adjudicated.
        But over the next two decades, he presided over a wide range of criminal and civil matters, stepping deftly from maritime law and election issues to census questions and educational crises, and on to the cases of mobsters and schemers, including Anthony M. Scotto, a waterfront boss he jailed for racketeering, and Robert L. Vesco, the financier who became a fugitive after looting $200 million from companies he controlled.
        Through it all, colleagues said, Judge Stewart presided in pressure-filled courtrooms with a fatherly patience, a thorough understanding of issues and personalities and a methodical bearing.
        Prosecutors and defense lawyers alike praised him. "He's a warm, careful, sensitive man who believes in justice," James M. LaRosa, Mr. Scotto's lawyer, said of Judge Stewart in 1979 near the end of a nine-week trial in which his client, a politically influential leader of the International Longshoremen's Association, and another union leader, Anthony Anastasio, were found guilty of extortion and racketeering.
        Judge Stewart, who once told a friend that sentencing was the most painful and difficult aspect of his work, sentenced Mr. Scotto to five years in prison and Mr. Anastasio to two years. Their appeals for a new trial were rejected by the United States Supreme Court.
        While the Scotto-Anastasio case was the most prominent of his judicial career, Judge Stewart also presided over and ruled on lawsuits by investors and the Securities and Exchange Commission against Mr. Vesco, who looted various companies and fled in 1973, initially to Costa Rica and then to the Bahamas.
        In 1973, the judge reinstated Luis Fuentes, a superintendent who had been ousted by a local school board on Manhattan's Lower East Side, and in another case ordered New York City's Board of Elections to hold bilingual elections, with all voting instructions, amendments and propositions on the ballot in Spanish as well as English.
        In other notable cases, Judge Stewart held New York State authorities in contempt for failing to provide due process to inmates in prison disciplinary hearings, ruled that it was discriminatory for a company to dismiss a man for wearing long hair, and struck down a state law that said drugs found in a car were presumptive evidence that all in the car were guilty of possession.
        Charles Edward Stewart Jr. was born in Glen Ridge, N.J., on Sept. 1, 1916, attended Phillips Andover Academy and graduated from Harvard in 1938. He worked as a clerk for an oil company and as a copy boy for The Daily News. In World War II, he was an Army captain in Gen. George S. Patton's tank corps, and won the Bronze Star.
        After the war, he returned to Harvard, earned a law degree in 1948 and joined the New York law firm of Dewey, Ballentine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood. He became a partner in 1952 and a protege of John M. Harlan, who later became an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Stewart, specializing in antitrust law, won many prominent cases, among them one in which major pharmaceutical companies were accused by the Government of price-fixing. President Nixon appointed him a United States District Court judge for the Southern District of New York on June 30, 1972. He became a senior judge of the court about a decade ago.
        Besides his son, a resident of Pawling, Judge Stewart is survived by his wife, the former Virginia L. Browne, whom he married in 1941; a brother, John Stewart, of Rumson, N.J.; a sister, Jane Heckman, of Lombard, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      