
        Francis Steegmuller, the American novelist, biographer and translator whose works on Gustav Flaubert illuminated the agonies and thrills of creating fiction, died at a Naples hospital on Thursday. He was 88 and had homes in New York City, on Capri and in Naples.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, the writer Shirley Hazzard.
        Mr. Steegmuller was a prodigious writer, whose output also included highly admired biographies of Jean Cocteau, Isadora Duncan and Guy de Maupassant. His 1957 translation of "Madame Bovary," some scholars say, remains unsurpassed. He also published a translation of correspondence between Louise d'Epinay, a Parisian intellectual and hostess, and the Abbe Ferdinando Galiani, a Neapolitan diplomat, called "A Woman, a Man and Two Kingdoms." He demonstrated his versatility with three detective mysteries, "A Matter of Iodine," "A Matter of Accent" and "Blue Harpsichord," which he wrote under the pen name David Keith.
        His extensive works on Flaubert included three volumes of the writer's selected letters, his correspondence with George Sand (with Barbara Bray), Flaubert's intimate notebooks and his travel notes in Egypt.
        Mr. Steegmuller continued writing until two years ago, when his memory began failing, and he would spend more time reading the classics aloud with his wife in the quiet hours after breakfast. The day before his death, Ms. Hazzard said, the couple had just finished reading Shakespeare's "Antony and Cleopatra" to each other "for the umpteenth time," surrounded by the potted geraniums he loved to tend on their terrace over the Bay of Naples.
        At the start of his career, Mr. Steegmuller formed part of a particularly promising coterie of young men who attended Columbia University in the 1920's, and would prove illustrious in their lifetimes. He was a 19-year-old student there when his first book, a fictional biography of Ben Jonson, was published under the pseudonym Byron Steel.
        Mr. Steegmuller's friends at Columbia included Lionel Trilling, Clifton Fadiman, Jacques Barzun, Meyer Shapiro, Richard Snow, the architect, and Dwight Minor, a historian. "We met often, went to the theater, museums and so forth," said Mr. Barzun, who became a lifelong friend. "Francis was a survivor of that group."
        It was a period of intense American romance with Europe, and as a teen-ager Mr. Steegmuller set off for England with a friend, working in the ship's galley to pay their way. (He had pretty much worn out the pages on France in his family's reference books by the age of 9, his mother would say, years later.)
        The two teen-agers landed in England without passports, but those were days when this was not an insurmountable obstacle for two Americans abroad, Ms. Hazzard said. "They wouldn't have dreamed of sending them back without letting them ashore."
        It was, in retrospect, an inevitability that Mr. Steegmuller would find his way back to Europe shortly after graduation. He did not frequent the American expatriate writers' haunts, but he found friends in artistic circles easily enough, including the Cubist painter Jacques Villon, who introduced him to his first wife, the artist Beatrice Stein.
        Mr. Steegmuller, fluent in French, spent the 1930's exploring England, France and Italy. With the fascism of Italy and the specter of Nazi Germany, he became disillusioned with Europe, and found his way home, eventually serving in the American military. He returned to France after the war, working initially in military intelligence. He was a recipient of the French Legion of Honor. In 1971, he won a National Book Award for "Cocteau: A Biography."
        Mr. Steegmuller's editor at The New Yorker, William Maxwell, said yesterday that Mr. Steegmuller, a close friend, "was meticulous about detail and wrote well, which isn't to be said about most biographers."
        Mr. Steegmuller met Ms. Hazzard at the home of the writer Muriel Spark in 1963, two years after the death of his first wife, who had polio. Ms. Hazzard had lived in Italy, and with his second marriage, Mr. Steegmuller grew more interested in Italian culture and literary subjects, and would spend long hours in the archives at Naples. But Flaubert remained an abiding passion; Ms. Hazzard affectionately described her marriage as "an extended menage a trois with Flaubert."
        Ms. Hazzard said that after his long and industrious career, her husband had difficulty accepting the memory lapses that came with age, and no longer trusted himself to write for publication. "He at first felt very deeply the lack of his daily work," she said. "And I said, 'You're 86 and you've been publishing since you're 19, that's not a sad story.' And he became reconciled to it."
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review in January 1992, Victor Brombert, a professor of Romance and Comparative Literature at Princeton University, said Mr. Steegmuller's book "A Woman, a Man and Two Kingdoms," was written with "expert skill, urbanity and insight." Mr. Steegmuller's last book, "The Incident at Naples," an account of having been mugged on a Naples street, was published in The New Yorker.
      