
        Timothy Asch, an anthropologist whose ethnographic films captured the life and rituals of remote societies, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62.
        The cause was lymphoma, his family said.
        Over decades, Mr. Asch collaborated with other anthropologists to produce more than 70 films documenting cultures in South America, North America, Africa, Afghanistan and Indonesia. His films were shown in classrooms around the world.
        At his death he was a professor of anthropology at the University of Southern California and directed both its International Anthropological Archive and Center for Visual Anthropology, where he created a graduate program in that field.
        He made 40 films with Napoleon Chagnon, an ethnographer, in 1968 and 1971 while they lived with the Yanomami Indians in the Amazon rain forests of northern Brazil and southern Venezuela.
        His most recent honors included the Grand Prix du Bilan from the Musee de l'Homme in Paris and a special screening at the Third World Film Forum in Freiburg, Germany. Last year his first retrospective in New York was featured at the 17th annual Margaret Mead Film and Video Festival at the American Museum of Natural History.
        The festival is the United States' only annual event exploring cultural diversity through documentaries. For Professor Asch, it also recalled an early relationship with Dr. Mead at Columbia University.
        Mr. Asch was born in Southampton, L.I., and apprenticed with the photographers Ansel Adams, Minor White and Edward Weston in the early 1950's. He served as a teaching assistant to Dr. Mead at Columbia, where he received a bachelor's degree in anthropology in 1959. He later studied at Boston University and Harvard, and received a master's degree in anthropology from the former.
        He credited Dr. Mead with encouraging his interest in film, and he started his career in ethnographic filming in 1959 by editing John Marshall's South African documentaries at the Peabody Museum at Harvard.
        In 1975, after his work with the Yanomami, he began to work in partnership with his wife, Patricia Wood Asch. With other anthropologists in Afghanistan and Indonesia, they produced films widely used in education and research.
        Besides his wife, Professor Asch is survived by two daughters, Caya Asch of East Windsor, N.J., and Kim Asch of Manhattan; two sons, Gregory, of Brooklyn, and Alexander, of Canberra, Australia; two sisters, Behri Knauth of Stonington, Conn., and Maedra Kelman of Newark, and two grandchildren.
      