
        They came in running shoes, high heels, flats and wingtips; in brightly colored warm-up jackets, dark gray business suits and T-shirts and shorts. By the time they had all walked hand in hand across the marathon finish line on a glorious fall day in Central Park, the police estimated that from 3,000 to 4,000 people had taken part in yesterday's noontime tribute to Fred Lebow, the founder of the New York City Marathon, who died of brain cancer on Sunday at the age of 62.
        There were well-known runners like Grete Waitz and Eamonn Coghlan, familiar political names like Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Parks Commissioner Henry Stern and Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, and business executives like Lew Rudin, the real estate magnate, and Charles McCabe, the executive vice president of Chemical Bank, a major marathon sponsor.
        Some, like Joe Kleinerman, Raleigh Mayer, Cara Tabac, Nancy Rowe, Ellen Cunningham, Nancy Coplon, Jake Lasala and Bob Wynn, had worked closely with Mr. Lebow at the New York Road Runners Club, which he helped build into an organization of more than 30,000 members.
        Others had no more than caught a glimpse of Mr. Lebow, riding in the marathon pace car or on his daily runs through the park. But all seemed to regard him as a dear and cherished personal friend.
        "He gave people a lot of personal goals to work toward," said Davidson Garrett, a substitute school teacher and a four-time marathon finisher, who recalled that he had once seen Mr. Lebow running in the park after his initial bout with brain cancer in 1991. "In the marathon, you are your own competition. Fred Lebow did a lot to promote that spirit."
        Deborah Carabet, who showed up in running shorts and knee brace so she could get in a training run for her first marathon, said she had come with her boyfriend, Jeff Berman, who has leukemia and had joined Mr. Lebow in starting a cancer support group for athletes. "He was an inspiration," Ms. Carabet said. "He taught you that you could do whatever you want to do."
        Marguerite Cronin, who had run five miles before the ceremony, echoed the point. She recalled running a half marathon when she was a beginner, and Mr. Lebow falling in step with her. "He was so enthusiastic," she said. "He meant a lot to me. I felt I should come here today and think about how much he has done for the people of New York and around the world."
        Indeed. "Fred Lebow was a New Yorker," is the way Mr. Giuliani began his brief eulogy, but there was ample evidence that Mr. Lebow, who was credited with stimulating the world-wide boom in long-distance running and was regarded as the inspiration for countless international marathons, knew no boundaries.
        The single display of flowers in front of the speakers' platform was a gift from the runners of Japan. Before the ceremony, Allan Steinfeld, the Road Runners club president, was approached by Guenter Erich, the American representative of the Berlin Marathon, who said he had been asked personally to convey condolences on behalf of that event.
        "Fred helped start the first Berlin Marathon in 1982," Mr. Erich said. "His guidance was instrumental in making it a success."
        Mr. Giuliani, noting that Mr. Lebow had come to New York penniless, pointed out that he had become a successful garment executive. "Then," the Mayor said, "he had an idea."
        "It was his idea, and he executed it," so well, the Mayor added, that a race that began in Central Park 1n 1970 with just 127 starters has grown to one that attracts 30,000 runners from all over the world.
        Describing the marathon as a living legacy to Mr. Lebow, the Mayor said that when the 25th marathon is held on Nov. 6, "everyone who crosses the finish line will dedicate the race to him."
        Ms. Waitz, the nine-time New York Marathon winner who accompanied a weakened Mr. Lebow on his five-and-a-half- hour personal marathon triumph in 1992, recalled that Mr. Lebow had wanted her to have a 10th victory. "Crossing the finish line with Fred in 1992 meant more to me than a possible 10th victory," she said.
        Those who walked silently across the finish line in his honor yesterday would probably not be surprised that Mr. Lebow had been there first, and with more fanfare.
        On Monday, as Mr. Lebow's remains were being taken to Mount Hebron Cemetery in Flushing, Queens, after a private funeral on the Upper West Side, Mr. Steinfeld, mindful that Mr. Lebow relished marathon hoopla, arranged for eight police motorcyles, their sirens blaring and lights flashing, to lead the funeral motorcade across the finish line.
      