
        Donald Ashwander, a composer and musician best known for the effervescent scores he wrote for the Paper Bag Players, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 65 years old, and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was a heart attack while he was preparing for a performance for public school children at the Riverbank State Park Cultural Center in Harlem, said Judith Liss, the managing director of the Paper Bag Players.
        For nearly 30 years, he was the musical director for this popular children's theater. While sitting at his electric harpsichord and in later years at a keyboard, he also tooted and fluted a variety of instruments, including a kazoo, whistle and rhythm box. He was so in tune with his harpsichord that he seemed plugged into it.
        He was not just an instrumentalist but was very much a part of every performance, filling a theater with happy bleats, burbles, pops and music of his own creation. With his instruments, he also provided background sounds: a chugging train transformed into a high-flying plane; a hissing snake, leaky plumbing (in "Plumber, Plumber, Fix My Sink"). His music added spontaneity to the cheerful children's plays enacted by the troupe.
        Mr. Ashwander once described himself as "a ragtime piano player." His musical compositions are also in the repertory of the Canadian Ballet and the Royal Ballet in London. His work was frequently recorded, and his latest compact disk, "Traditional Patterns," was released this week by Premier Recordings. As a musician, he was equally at home playing in New York City parks and in concert halls.
        He was born in Birmingham, Ala., and grew up in Hanceville, Ala. After studying at Sacred Heart College in Cullman, Ala., and Birmingham Southern University, he attended the Manhattan School of Music. He joined the Paper Bag Players in 1966 and, Ms. Liss said, never missed a performance.
        With the company (led by Judith Martin as artistic director), he toured the United States and Europe, delighting children, who sometimes gathered around the composer after a performance to see where the funny sounds came from. The young audience carried home such tunes as "I Won't Take a Bath." Mr. Ashwander wrote the scores for "Everybody, Everybody," "Dandelion," "Hot Feet," "To the Rescue," "Any Friend of Yours Is a Friend of Mine," "You Won't Believe This But" and many other shows.
        He is survived by his mother, Lois Jones, his stepfather, Howard Jones (both of Foley, Ala.), a brother, two sisters and two nieces and a nephew.
        A memorial service is scheduled for Wednesday at 7:30 P.M. at the Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street.
      