
        Robert Lansing, whose rugged good looks and deep voice served him well on stage and in films and television, died on Sunday at Calgary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Ann.
        Mr. Lansing starred in the television series "12 O'Clock High" and in Broadway plays including "The Great God Brown," "Suddenly Last Summer" and "The Little Foxes." His film career included roles in "The 4-D Man," "A Gathering of Eagles," "Under the Yum Yum Tree," "The Scalpel" and "The Nest."
        Mr. Lansing was born in San Diego and began working on Broadway in the 1950's in productions that included "Stalag 17," "Richard III," "Cyrano de Bergerac" and "Charlie's Aunt." His natural air of authority proved an asset in his best-known television role, as Brig. Gen. Frank Savage in "12 O'Clock High," the role that won him fame. He also appeared on episodes of "Alfred Hitchcock Presents," "The Twilight Zone," "Star Trek," "Simon and Simon," "Murder, She Wrote" and "Law and Order."
        Mr. Lansing also appeared in Broadway productions of "The Little Foxes" and "Finishing Touches." Off Broadway, he starred in Strindberg's "Father," the "Sea Plays" of Eugene O'Neill and two one-man shows, "Damian" and "The Disciple of Discontent." He also appeared frequently at the Williamstown Theater Festival, the Long Wharf Theater and the Cherry Lane Theater.
        In a New York Times review of Mr. Lansing's performance in the 1985 television drama "The Cost of Living," Walter Goodman said, "Mr. Lansing, craggy and world-weary, captures the desperation of a man who has so hardened himself against life's buffetings that he no longer knows how to respond to simple affection when it is offered."
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children by previous marriages, Robert Frederick Orin Lansing and Alice Lucille Lansing.
        Services will be held today at Congregation Rodeph Shalom, 3 West 83d Street, Manhattan.
      