
        Dr. Rollo May, an innovative American psychologist and psychotherapist who was widely known through his writings, died on Saturday at his home in Tiburon, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, and he had been in declining health for two years, said Nancy Ramsey, a friend of his family.
        Dr. May, who grew up in Michigan, had a doctorate in clinical psychology from Columbia University and received psychoanalytical training early in his career. He wrote several books that became highly influential in the world of psychotherapy and in the culture beyond it.
        In his writings, Dr. May emphasized people's desire for self-fulfillment and the positive aspects of humanity's potential. His admirers said he was skilled at making psychological and philosophical concepts accessible to lay people.
        The magazine editor and author Norman Cousins once wrote: "I have never come away from a book by Rollo May without a feeling that the game of life is worth the candle, or without an added increment of faith in the ability of human beings to be equal to their problems."
        Dr. May's best-known books included "Love and Will" (1969, Dell, Norton and Doubleday) and "The Courage to Create" (1975, Bantam), which posed the question, "Shall we seize the courage necessary to preserve our sensitivity, awareness and responsibility in the face of radical change?"
        When it appeared at the end of the 1960's, "Love and Will" was described as containing an argument for the fashioning of values appropriate to people's biological, historical and individual selves in those fitful times.
        Dr. May was one of the first, and among the most influential, thinkers in the field of psychotherapy to be influenced by the European existentialists. In the 1950's, he was also one of the first thinkers in the field of psychotherapy to formulate a view of human nature that was not based on Freudian principles. One of his main insights was a conviction that much of human behavior is motivated by a profound, underlying sense of anxiety, which he felt it was important to address in psychotherapy. His doctoral dissertation was about anxiety and became his 1950 book, "The Meaning of Anxiety," an interdisciplinary study.
        Dr. May was also one of the originators of the humanistic psychology movement, which concerns itself with the ways in which people can grow, and it avoids the Freudian approach of trying to heal personal difficulties that are residues of childhood. The movement blossomed in the 1960's and provided the intellectual platform for the human potential movement, which also bloomed in that decade. Both movements remain influential today. Dr. May was also a co-founder of the Association for Humanistic Psychology.
        Humanistic psychology is sometimes seen as the third force in the world of psychology. In that view, the first force is psychoanalysis, and the second wave is behaviorism, a movement focusing on the role of rewards and punishments in changing people's behavior.
        Robert H. Abzug, a professor at the University of Texas, in Austin, who is working on a biography of Dr. May, said yesterday that Dr. May's prominence was greatest in the 1960's and 1970's.
        Over the years, Dr. May was a visiting professor at Harvard, Yale, Princeton and other institutions. The honors he received included the American Psychological Association's award for making a distinguished contribution to clinical psychology and the association's gold medal for a distinguished career in psychology.
        Born in Ada, Ohio, he graduated in 1930 from Oberlin College in Ohio and taught at a missionary school in Greece. He was inspired by the lectures of the Austrian psychologist Alfred Adler, near Vienna in 1932, and Dr. May resolved to work, as Professor Abzug put it, in "psychology in the service of religion."
        He went on to earn a bachelor's degree in divinity from the Union Theological Seminary, in Manhattan, and served briefly as a Congregational minister before resigning to begin his studies for his doctorate.
        Dr. May went on to become a member of the faculty at the William Alanson White Institute, in Manhattan, from 1958 to 1975, and a lecturer at the New School for Social Research, also in Manhattan, from 1955 to 1976.
        His first two marriages, of 30 years to Florence DeFrees, and of 7 years to Ingrid Kepler Scholl, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of five years, the former Georgia Lee Miller Johnson; a brother, Pat, of Howell, Mich.; a son, Robert, of Amherst, Mass.; two daughters, Allegra, of Portsmouth, N.H., and Carolyn, of Belmont, Mass.; two stepdaughters, Leila May of Berkeley, Calif., and Diane Johnson-Fussey of Oakland, Calif.; two stepsons, Richard Boyd Johnson of Toronto and Stuart Craig Johnson of Redwood City, Calif.; 12 grandchildren and step-grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      