
        Dr. Paul V. Trad, a child psychiatrist, teacher and prodigious writer in his field, died on Oct. 5 in Berkeley, Calif., where he spent his final weeks at the home of friends. He was 41 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said Dr. Paulina F. Kernberg, director of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at the Westchester division of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He had worked at the White Plains unit for the last 11 years.
        At his death, Dr. Trad was an assistant professor of psychiatry at Cornell University Medical College. Until recently, he directed the child and adolescent outpatient department at the Westchester division.
        He was editor in chief of the American Journal of Psychotherapy. He also was editor of the Child and Adolescent Multi-Disciplinary Book Series, published by Jason Aronson Inc., and of several periodicals.
        Between 1986 and last year, he published 90 papers on infant depression and the evaluation and treatment of preschoolers. He also specialized in working with parents and infants and published nine scholarly books on such topics.
        He had completed work on two more books to be published posthumously, "Encyclopedic Dictionary of Psychotherapy," for Blackwell Publishers, and "The Developmental Vicissitudes of Adolescent Mothers," for American Psychiatric Press.
        Dr. Trad was born into a large and closely knit family in Mexico City and graduated from the University of La Salle there, which also granted his medical degree. He interned and trained in adult psychiatry at New York Medical College.
        He was certified as a psychoanalyst by the William Alanson White Institute in New York before taking advanced training in child and adolescent psychiatry at Cornell's Westchester division. In 1985, he became acting director of the outpatient division there for a year. He was director from 1989 until last June, when he asked for medical leave.
        Dr. Trad is survived by his mother, Blanche Trad, and his brothers Jorge, Emilio, Robert and Alex, all of Mexico City.
      