
        Peter O. Murphy, a former deputy United States trade representative who was the chief American negotiator of the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement in 1988, died on Thursday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 46.
        Mr. Murphy died of a brain tumor, said Dorothy Dwoskin, the assistant United States trade representative for multilateral trade negotiations, who was a former aide and a friend.
        He was widely respected by fellow trade officials as a civil servant with few political connections who nonetheless rose swiftly through the ranks at the Office of the United States Trade Representative to hold three top jobs. Mr. Murphy was named chief textile negotiator in 1981, served as deputy United States Trade Representative in 1983 and as chief negotiator of the United States-Canada pact in 1986.
        Clayton Yeutter, who was the United States trade representative when the United States-Canada pact was negotiated, said Mr. Murphy "had an immense amount of experience, and he was able to assert the diplomatic skills and sensitivities that separate the really outstanding negotiators from the run-of-the-mill."
        The United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement took effect in 1989 and began the gradual elimination of tariffs and many other trade barriers in the world's biggest bilateral trading relationship. It laid the groundwork for the North American Free Trade Agreement, which took effect at the beginning of this year and expanded the free-trade zone to include Mexico.
        Mr. Murphy was the American delegate to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva from 1983 to 1986. He led the drafting of American objectives for the seven years of negotiations that produced a 117-nation agreement last December to reduce tariffs and broaden the GATT's free-trade rules. The House and Senate are scheduled to hold a special session at the end of November to consider whether to approve the pact.
        Mr. Murphy also played a large role in some of the preliminary contacts with Mexican trade officials in 1989 that eventually led to the negotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1991 and 1992. After a 14-year career at the trade office, he left in 1989 to work as vice president for international affairs at Cassidy & Associates, a Washington-based consulting firm.
        He is survived by his wife, Deirdre Maloney, and daughters Brigid and Caitlin Murphy, all of Chevy Chase, Md.; his parents, William T. Murphy Sr. and Martha O. Murphy of New Canaan, Conn.; his brothers, William T. Murphy Jr., also of New Canaan, and John F. Murphy of Milwaukee; and his sisters, Jane Murphy Sargent of Moorestown, N.J., and Sarah Murphy of Minneapolis.
      