
        Rabbi Shlomo Carlebach, the foremost songwriter in contemporary Judaism, who used his music to inspire and unite Jews around the world, died on Thursday at Western Queens Community Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan, Toronto and Moshav Or Modiin, Israel.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, according to his sister-in-law, Hadassa Carlebach.
        Rabbi Carlebach put the words of Jewish prayer and ceremony to music that is heard at virtually every Jewish wedding and bar mitzvah, from Hasidic to Reform.
        In a recording career that stretched over 30 years, the rabbi sang his songs on more than 25 albums. His most famous song was "Am Yisroel Chai" ("The People of Israel Live"), which was an anthem of Jews behind the Iron Curtain before the fall of Communism. It continues to be sung at Jewish rallies and celebrations today.
        One of Rabbi Carlebach's few English songs, about the beauty of the Jewish Sabbath, begins, "The whole world is waiting to sing the song of Shabbos."
        Rabbi Carlebach was constantly on tour, rushing from one capital to another. He appeared in large concert halls, like Carnegie Hall in New York and the Opera Palace in St. Petersburg, as well as synagogue basements and college coffeehouses.
        In the last year, Rabbi Carlebach gave concerts in Morocco, Australia, France, Germany, Austria and Israel.
        Rabbi Carlebach, who was Orthodox, had a full head of white curls and a white beard that he pinned back rather than cut, and wore a trademark white shirt and vest. He operated outside traditional Jewish structures in style and substance, and spoke about God and His love in a way that could make other rabbis uncomfortable. "Holy brothers and sisters, I have something really deep to tell you," was his way of addressing a crowd.
        At the end of Yom Kippur, what most rabbis call the most solemn day of the year, Rabbi Carlebach would joyously sing and dance late into the night.
        Most of his songs seemed to have no ending, but would keep going and going until the crowd was exhausted. The rabbi would rise and tell an elaborate Hasidic tale or bit of Torah wisdom until he began another song.
        Shlomo Carlebach was born in 1925 in Berlin, where his father, Naftali, was an Orthodox leader. The family, which fled the Nazis in 1933, lived in Switzerland before coming to New York in 1939. His father became the rabbi of a small synagogue on West 79th Street, Congregation Kehlilath Jacob; Shlomo Carlebach and his twin brother, Eli Chaim, took over the synagogue after their father's death in 1967.
        He studied at the Yeshiva Torah Vodaath in Brooklyn and at the Bais Medrash Gavoah in Lakewood, N.J. From 1951 to 1954, he worked as a traveling emissary of the Grand Rabbi of Lubavitch, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson.
        During that period, he also picked up a guitar and began writing songs and visiting coffeehouses and clubs in Greenwich Village, where he met Bob Dylan, Pete Seeger and other folk singers. They encouraged his singing career and helped the rabbi get a spot at the Berkeley Folk Festival in 1966. After his appearance, he decided to remain in the Bay Area to reach out to what he called "lost Jewish souls," runaways and drug addicted youths. He founded a communelike synagogue called The House of Love and Prayer.
        "If I would have called it Temple Israel, nobody would have come," he said. "I had the privilege of reaching thousands of kids. Hopefully I put a little seed in their hearts."
        Eleven years later, he closed the House of Love and Prayer and took the remnants of the congregation to Israel, where he established the small settlement of Moshav Or Modiin, in Lod, near Ben Gurion Airport. The settlement now has about 35 families.
        Rabbi Carlebach is survived by his wife, Neila Carlebach, and two daughters, Neshama and Nadara, all of Toronto, and a sister, Shulamith Levovitz of Monsey, N.Y.
        The funeral will be on Sunday at 9 A.M. at Congregation Kehilath Jacob, 305 West 79th Street, in Manhattan.
      