
        Frank McGuire, who helped popularize the game in the South after developing a pipeline that transported big-city high school basketball stars to the region, died yesterday at his home in Columbia, S.C.
        He was 80 years old, and had been in failing health since suffering a severe stroke two years ago, officials at the University of South Carolina said.
        A New York City native who began his college coaching career at St. John's, Mr. McGuire was one of only two coaches to take two different college teams to the National Collegiate Athletic Association final: His 1952 St. John's team lost to Kansas, while his 1957 North Carolina team defeated a Kansas team featuring Wilt Chamberlain.
        (Larry Brown, whom Mr. McGuire coached at North Carolina, is the other coach to take two different teams to the Final -- with U.C.L.A. in 1980 and Kansas in 1988.
        In 30 years of coaching college basketball, at St. John's, North Carolina and South Carolina, Mr. McGuire posted a 550-235 record and played in 22 post-season tournaments. He also coached the Philadelphia Warriors during the 1961-62 season, when Chamberlain scored 4,029 points and averaged 50.4 points a game, both National Basketball Association records. In 1977, he was elected to the National Basketball Hall of Fame.
        Mr. McGuire once recalled his experience after his St. John's team lost to Kansas in 1952. "After the gun went off, everybody mobbed the Kansas players and there we were -- me and 12 basketball players," he said. "We were second in the United States. But we might as well have been 50th. It was a lesson."
        The lesson was that it is better to be first. The following season he moved on to North Carolina. There, he began the process of importing New York players to the Chapel Hill school, building a basketball following that helped fuel the wild popularity currently enjoyed by the region's Atlantic Coast Conference.
        Five years after arriving, Mr. McGuire finished first when North Carolina, with a starting five of all New Yorkers, defeated Kansas for the title in triple overtime.
        Francis Joseph McGuire, the 13th child of a New York City policeman, was born on Nov. 8, 1913, in Greenwich Village. He attended St. Francis Xavier High School, where he later taught history and coached for 11 seasons.
        A four-letter man at St. John's, from where he graduated in 1936, Mr. McGuire returned to his alma mater in 1947 to begin a career that would make him a coaching legend by the time he left South Carolina after the 1980-81 season. He was also the St. John's baseball coach when the Redmen went to the 1949 College World Series.
        After compiling a 103-35 five-year basketball coaching record at St. John's, Mr. McGuire left New York in 1953 to become the North Carolina coach.
        "When I got to North Carolina," Mr. McGuire once said, "there was little or no interest in college basketball there. Everybody was a football fan."
        The story goes that when Mr. McGuire arrived at North Carolina, he sat, arms folded, calmly watching his team being routed. At his side was Buck Freeman, his longtime assistant. At one point, Mr. Freeman reportedly said: "Frank, they're killing us. What are we going to do?"
        "Get better players," Mr. McGuire told him.
        So was born the "underground railroad," through which Mr. McGuire recruited New York talent and brought it to Chapel Hill. The 1957 team, which won all of its 32 games and the N.C.A.A. title, consisted of an all-New York starting five: Lennie Rosenbluth, Pete Brennan, Tommy Kearns, Joe Quigg and Bob Cunningham.
        Explaining his recruiting of New York-area talent, Mr. McGuire said: "I believe we know more about basketball in New York. Even the players are better. A kid has to dodge and fake just to get on the subway. It makes him a good feinter just to walk on the streets.
        "At St. John's, it was simple to recruit. I'd just get on the subway and see the coaches I knew and I'd get the players. It was no different when I got to North Carolina. There, I'd just jump on a plane after every practice. I logged more miles than anybody and it paid off. We got the players."
        Mr. McGuire compiled a 164-58 record at North Carolina before leaving to become the general manager and coach of the Philadelphia Warriors.
        "I had a couple of fancy titles," Mr. McGuire once said, "but let me tell you, I was also the traveling secretary, the ticket agent and a lot of other things. I spent almost as much time trying to get my team transported from one game to another as I did coaching."
        The job lasted only one year. After the Boston Celtics eliminated the Warriors in the Eastern Division final, the franchise was sold and moved to San Francisco. Mr. McGuire decided to stay behind and in the spring of 1964, he became the coach at South Carolina, where in 16 seasons his teams won 283 games and lost 142.
        By the time he left coaching, he had been named national Coach of the Year at three different colleges. Many of the players he coached or assistants he tutored went on to make their mark in the game, including Lou Carnesecca, later the St. John's coach; Dean Smith, an assistant to Mr. McGuire at North Carolina, and Bobby Cremins, who played for Mr. McGuire at South Carolina and is now the coach of Georgia Tech. He also coached Donnie Walsh, Doug Moe, Al and Dick McGuire (no relation) and Billy Cunningham.
        Mr. McGuire was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane; three children by a previous marriage, Patricia Jeanne Ventling of Corpus Christi, Tex.; Frank Jr. of Columbia, and Carol Ann Morgan of Columbia, and six grandchildren.
      