
        Dr. Arthur Wagg Pollister, a zoologist at Columbia University who helped unravel the secrets of the cells that make up all living matter, died on Tuesday at the Peter Becker Community in Harleysville, Pa., where he lived for several years. He was 91.
        He suffered a brief illness, said his son, James.
        Dr. Pollister was among the first scientists to use the electron microscope in biological research. In 1949, he led a team that built an electronic device employing both visible and invisible light to determine the quantities of the constituents of a cell.
        Named the micro-spectro-photometer, it was sensitive enough to "weigh" quantities of a single cell's components existing in less than one-trillionth of an ounce. That made it possible to determine with unprecedented precision differences in the constituents of normal and diseased cells.
        Dr. Pollister's device, which took seven years to develop, advanced the studies of cells for research on cancer, anemia, genetics, biology, biophysics and related fields. Within a year, his team located and estimated the amount of DNA, the vital chemical substance that is responsible for hereditary control of life functions.
        He and his colleagues invented cutting techniques and "glass knives" that cut biological samples thin enough to view with the electron microscope. Using slices of frog's eggs one-millionth of an inch thick, they reported in 1954 the existence of tiny "threads of life" that link the nucleus of a living cell with its outer membrane.
        "Using microscopes and chemical dyes he was able to predict, correctly, that it was the DNA of the chromosome that carried the genetic information of the cell," said Dr. Robert E. Pollack, professor of biological sciences at Columbia. "It was a prediction which he could not confirm because he was not a chemist."
        Dr. Pollister was born in Turner, Me. He graduated from Bates College with a degree in Latin and received his master's and Ph.D. in zoology at Columbia. He stayed on there, advancing to full professor by 1950. He reached emeritus status in 1969.
        Besides his son, James, of Belle Mead, N.J., Dr. Pollister is survived by a daughter, Patricia O'Neal, of Deepwater, Mo., three granddaughters and two great-grandsons. His wife of 67 years, Dr. Priscilla Frew Pollister, a biology professor at Brooklyn College, died in 1992.
      