
        Devendra P. Varma, a scholar of English Gothic tales and a connoisseur of vampire lore, died on Monday at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, L.I., while visiting friends in Merrick. He was 71 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
        The cause was a stroke, said a spokesman for Dalhousie University in Halifax, where Professor Varma taught for 31 years.
        As a professor of English and Gothic romance literature, he oversaw the publication of more than 100 Gothic novels. Some required him to patch together pieces of books that had not been seen or read since they left the print shop in the late 1700's or early 1800's. In those days, Gothic romances were mass-produced, replete with psychic phenomena, grim landscapes and haunted castles. To Mr. Varma, discovering and putting them back together was like making a broken urn whole again.
        "My researches are archival," he once said. "You'll find 40 pages in one treasure room, another 50 with a collector, the title page somewhere else."
        His own books included "Gothic Flame: Being a History of the Gothic Novel in England" (1957) and "The Evergreen Tree of Diabolical Knowledge" (1972). He also wrote many academic articles.
        His courses at Dalhousie were among the most popular in the English department. Hollywood sought him out as a consultant and, come Halloween, he was usually interviewed about Dracula and the supernatural.
        Professor Varma traveled the world to visit spooky places, like Dracula's castle, and regale audiences in and out of the classroom with tales of the macabre. At his death he was on a lecture tour of the United States.
        A Canadian citizen, he was born in Darbhanga, India, a Himalayan village with a view of Mount Everest. He taught English at universities in India, Nepal, Syria and Egypt before joining the Dalhousie faculty in 1963. He became a full professor in 1969, formally retired in 1991 but retained the title of honorary adjunct professor.
        Professor Varma is survived by a son, Hemen, of Halifax, and two grandchildren.
      