
        Viola Spolin, who as a teacher and author was an inspiration for the improvisational theater movement, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 88.
        Her sister, Beatrice Lees, said Mrs. Spolin had three strokes in recent years.
        Through her theater games and her book "Improvisations for the Theater" as well as the subsequent work of her son Paul Sills at the Compass and Second City in Chicago and with Story Theater, Mrs. Spolin influenced several generations of actors and directors, including Mike Nichols, Elaine May, Alan Arkin, Severn Darden, Barbara Harris, Anthony Holland, Paul Sand and Avery Schreiber. Although she did not have a career as a professional director, her guidance as a vital and highly demonstrative teacher was to indispensable as actors increasingly responded to the idea of improv.
        Various comic techniques came later, but she was a primary source of the practical mechanics of theater games, exercises designed to free actors. Explaining her approach, she once said, "My vision is a world of accessible intuition." Mr. Sills said his mother wanted "to help players hit their intuition" and become more spontaneous.
        Most of Mrs. Spolin's theater work was with children. She was born in Chicago, where she trained with Neva Boyd, an educator who used games to help children adjust to life in the city. Mrs. Spolin added the idea of theater games, exercises that led to role-playing. Later she worked for the W.P.A. When Mr. Sills joined David Shepherd in creating the Compass improvisational theater, his mother's games became part of the work process.
        Since 1945 Mrs. Spolin had lived in Los Angeles, where she founded the Young Actors Company, which is both a school and theater. She retired in 1980. "Improvisations for the Theater," her best-known book (published by Northwestern University Press) remains a standard theatrical text.
        In addition to her sister, of New York City, and her son Paul, of Baileys Harbor, Wis., she is survived by her third husband, Robert Kolmus Greene; another son, William Sills of Oakland, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      