
        John Wood Blodgett Hadley, an investor and philanthropist, died on Monday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 64 and lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I.
        The cause was heart failure resulting from lung cancer, according to the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, of which Mr. Hadley was chairman for the last nine years.
        A native of New York City, he lived in Chicago from 1957 until 1981 and began his business career with a Chicago-based concern, the Michigan-California Lumber Company, which was owned by his family. When the company was sold to the Georgia-Pacific Corporation in 1966, he ventured into investments, chiefly in health care. But he also established the Lauzun Corporation of Huntington Station, L.I., to help develop electric cars.
        In the early 1980's, he moved to Lloyd Harbor, where he had spent most of his summers.
        His charitable interests lay in health, the arts and education, particularly on Long Island. In 1992, he announced a $3 million gift to expand the Heckscher Museum, and a year ago, he and his wife gave $2.5 million to Chatham Hall, a Massachusetts boarding school from which she graduated.
        Other beneficiaries were Cold Spring Harbor (L.I.) Laboratory and Planned Parenthood Federation of Suffolk County. He was treasurer of the Pratt Institute until last month.
        He graduated from the Groton School and, in 1952, Yale University.
        Mr. Hadley is survived by his wife of 20 years, Robin Tieken Hadley; three sons, William B., of Hampstead, N.H.; Morris H., of Munich, Germany, and James D., of Greensboro, N.C.; a daughter, Helen H. Johnstone of Newport, R.I.; a brother, Arthur T. 2d, and a sister, Barbara H. Stanton, both of Manhattan, and a grandson. His first wife, Katrina Boyden Hadley, died in 1969.
        Correction:  November 19, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Nov. 10 about John Hadley, an investor of Lloyd Harbor, L.I., misstated the location of the boarding school from which his wife, Robin Tieken Hadley, was graduated. The school, Chatham Hall, is in Chatham, Va., not Massachusetts.
      