
        George J. Feldman, a former United States Ambassador to Luxembourg and Malta and a leading figure in the United States space effort, died Tuesday at the Bryn Mawr Terrace Nursing Home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 91.
        A native of Boston, Mr. Feldman received his law degree from Boston University and later alternated between private law practice in Boston, Washington and New York and government service. Among his corporate clients, Mr. Feldman represented the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, better known as A.& P.
        He was also an author of numerous articles and books on business law, including "Business Under the New Price Laws" (Prentice-Hall, 1937), a study of the economic problems arising from the passage of New Deal fair-trade legislation.
        During the 1930's, he became an administrative assistant to Senator David L. Walsh, a Massachusetts Democrat, and later served as a lawyer with the Federal Trade Commission and the National Recovery Administration. During World War II, he joined the Air Force, eventually attaining the rank of major.
        After the war, he was a consultant to the legal counsel of the Department of State, chief counsel to the House Select Committee on Astronautics and Outer Space and, in 1959, a member of the United States delegation to the 14th United Nations General Assembly.
        That same year, the House majority leader, Representative John W. McCormack, Democrat of Massachusetts, appointed Mr. Feldman as chief counsel of the newly formed House Committee on Astronautics and Space Exploration.
        In that capacity, Mr. Feldman was a chief author of a study that recommended the establishment of a civilian space agency, later named the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, to take on the assignment of overtaking the Soviet Union in space, rather than giving the job to the military.
        In 1962, President John F. Kennedy named Mr. Feldman one of the original directors of the Communications Satellite Corporation, the world's first commercial venture in space, which had been established by Congress to create a system of communications satellites.
        In 1960, Mr. Feldman served as vice chairman of the Democratic Party's finance committee and, four years later, he was an adviser to the party's platform committee.
        From 1965 to 1967, after being appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson, he served as the nation's first Ambassador to Malta. Then President Johnson named him Ambassador to Luxembourg.
        In 1976, President Gerald R. Ford named Mr. Feldman a member of his Democrats for Ford Committee in his unsuccessful campaign against Jimmy Carter. Mr. Feldman, wearing a "Ford-ocrat' button, said at the time that he was "baffled by Mr. Carter."
        Mr. Feldman is survived by a son, George, of Bryn Mawr; a daughter, Margot, of South Kent, Conn.; a brother, Cabot, of Washington;, two sisters, Rose Adler of Washington and Gennette Stargatt of Wilmington, Del., and a grandchild. His wife, Marion, died in 1982.
      