
        Thomas H. Kuchel, a Californian who spent 16 years in the United States Senate and who as Republican whip there played a vital role in enactment of major civil rights legislation in the 1960's, died on Monday night at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 84.
        He had been under treatment for lung cancer, said Dick Arnold, a former law partner.
        For a decade, from 1959 to 1969, Mr. Kuchel (pronounced KEEK-uhl) was the minority whip in the Senate, where he was co-manager on the floor for the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. He was also among a dozen Republican senators who provided important backing for enactment of the Medicare program, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty and conservation measures.
        A liberal in a largely conservative party, Mr. Kuchel was noted for declining to endorse Republican candidates whom he deemed too far to the right. While Republican whip, he withheld his endorsement from Richard M. Nixon for governor of California in 1962, Barry Goldwater for President and George Murphy of California for the Senate in 1964, and Ronald Reagan for governor of California in 1966.
        Mr. Kuchel had long been active in California Republican politics when he was appointed to the Senate by Gov. Earl Warren in 1952. The seat had been vacated by Mr. Nixon, who had just been elected Vice President.
        Unapologetic about his liberalism as his party moved increasingly toward the right, Mr. Kuchel himself led sharp attacks on the ultraconservative John Birch Society.
        In an interview after his retirement in 1981 from the Los Angeles law firm of Wyman, Bautzer, Rothman, Kuchel & Silbert, he said: "Progressive Republicans brought to politics the philosophy of governing for the many. What comes particularly to my mind is Medicare. If it weren't for Medicare today, there would be tens of thousands of Americans living in the poorhouse, with no care."
        Mr. Kuchel served in the Senate -- and as deputy to the Republican leader there, Senator Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois -- until 1969. Seeking a third term, he lost a primary election to a conservative educator, Max Rafferty, who was defeated in the general election by the Democratic nominee, Alan Cranston.
        Mr. Kuchel was not one who became very rich in politics. In 1968, when his annual Senate income was $33,239, he listed net assets of $134,224.
        Thomas Henry Kuchel was born on Aug. 15, 1910, in Anaheim, Calif. His father, Henry Kuchel, was a publisher whose newspaper campaigned against the Ku Klux Klan.
        His first public office was as a State Assemblyman from Orange County, a seat he won in 1936. Four years later, at age 30, he was elected chairman of the Republican State Central Committee.
        Mr. Kuchel graduated from the University of Southern California, where he also earned a law degree. He served in the Navy from 1942 to 1945.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Mellenthin, and a daughter, Karen Bianchi of Los Angeles.
      