
        Dr. C. Andrew L. Bassett, a New York orthopedic surgeon whose work led to faster healing of broken bones, died yesterday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 70.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.
        Dr. Bassett was associated for many years with Columbia University, where he was a professor of orthopedic surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons. From 1957 to 1986, he headed the college's Orthopedic Research Laboratories.
        In 1978, after 20 years of investigation and a five-year study of outpatients, he reported that electromagnetic waves could be used to heal fractured limbs. He developed devices that put to work the discovery that cell functions within the organism could be controlled by external electromagnetic fields.
        Many thousands of patients, not all of them human, have benefited from the treatment. The Bi-Osteogen he designed with Dr. Arthur A. Pilla, a device that looks like a pair of shin guards, has also been used to heal injured thoroughbreds.
        In 1975, Dr. Bassett was a founder of Electro-Biology Inc. of Parsippany, N.J. The company marketed a device that stimulates bone growth to heal fractures that refuse to knit.
        He also founded Osteodyne Inc., in Research Triangle Park, N.C., again applying his lifelong experience in the area of the influence of electromagnetics on the human cell. He was the company's chairman until he resigned last month because of his health.
        Mr. Bassett was born in Crisfield, Md. He graduated from Princeton University and received his M.D. from Columbia. He completed his training at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan, Mary Imogene Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown, N.Y. and New York Orthopedic Hospital. He joined the staff of Presbyterian Hospital and the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1955.
        Dr. Bassett is survived by his wife of 48 years, Nancy Clark Bassett; a daughter, Dr. Susan Wilson of San Francisco; two sons, David C. of Branford, Conn., and Lee S. of Sausalito, Calif.; a brother, Govert L. of Raleigh, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      