
        Dr. Marion Thomas Jenkins, the Texas anesthesiologist who tried to resuscitate both President John F. Kennedy and his assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, 31 years ago, died on Monday at his home in Dallas. He was 77.
        The cause was stomach cancer, his family said.
        Testifying during the Warren Commission's investigation in 1964, Dr. Jenkins related the particulars of the President's wounds and the actions he and his colleagues took on Nov. 22, 1963. His testimony was taken at Parkland Hospital by Arlen Specter, then the assistant counsel of the commission and now a Republican Senator from Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Jenkins again was in the emergency room two days later for the treatment of Oswald, who was gunned down by Jack Ruby while in police custody. The doctor's role was described in the best-selling book by Gerald L. Posner, "Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of J.F.K." (Random House, 1993), which sought to refute the various conspiracy theories about the murders.
        Dr. Jenkins was born in Hughes Springs, Tex., the son of a country doctor. He was a graduate of the University of Texas at Austin and received his medical degree from its medical branch in Galveston in 1940.
        He served in the Navy in the Pacific during World War II. He went to Dallas in 1946 for a residency in surgery at Parkland Memorial Hospital for a year and trained in anesthesiology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
        He became the director of the Department of Anesthesiology at Parkland in 1948 and professor and chairman of the Department of Anesthesiology at the Medical School in 1951.
        Dr. Jenkins and a colleague devised a procedure that is used every day in operating rooms around the world when they found that by giving an intravenous saline solution to surgical patients with strong blood pressure and pulse, the need for a blood transfusion was reduced.
        Dr. Jenkins is survived by two sons, Dr. Gregory L. Jenkins of Los Gatos, Calif., and Dr. Philip N. Jenkins of Dallas; a daughter, Christine L. Jenkins of Los Angeles; a brother, Vance K. Jenkins of Hughes Springs, and two grandsons.
      