
        Sam Francis, a painter known for lyrical, color-drenched abstractions, died on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 71 and had homes in Santa Monica, Point Reyes Station, Calif., and Paris.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Andre Emmerich, whose New York gallery has represented the artist since 1971.
        Mr. Francis was usually considered a founding member of Abstract Expressionism's second generation, which emerged in New York in the early 1950's and included painters like Joan Mitchell, Morris Louis and Helen Frankenthaler. Indeed, his work was deeply influenced by Jackson Pollock's drip paintings, as well as the work of Arshile Gorky, Mark Rothko and Clyfford Still, which he encountered in the San Francisco area in the late 1940's. In particular, the mural-like paintings that made Mr. Francis's reputation restated Rothko's monochrome surfaces as fields of closely stacked translucent spheres, creating a limpid effect of considerable elegance.
        The elements of this style served him for the remainder of his life. Over time, he pulled back the veils of color to disperse his blurry, gestural shapes over fields of blazing white. He arranged them in loose grids or mobile-like clusters, or pushed them to the canvases' outer edges.
        Despite his New York School affinities, Mr. Francis spent little time in the city. He came to maturity around 1950 while living in Paris, from a distance taking command of a style whose practitioners were generally a generation older. He had his first exhibition in Paris in 1952 and was an instant success. Throughout the 1950's he was probably the American artist of his generation most celebrated in Western Europe and Japan. He was less well known and less highly regarded in New York, where he made his artistic debut in 1956 with a solo show at the Martha Jackson Gallery and a place in the Museum of Modern Art's "12 Americans" exhibition.
        The international scope of Mr. Francis's stature was in many ways reflected in his art, which flavored Abstract Expressionism with intimations of Asian calligraphy and the saturated colors of European painters like Monet, Matisse and Bonnard, as well as Klimt.
        Samuel Lewis Francis was born in San Mateo, Calif. His father was a mathematics professor, his mother a pianist. He studied botany, medicine and psychology at the University of California at Berkeley. Joining the Army in 1943, he trained to be a pilot until he was seriously injured in a flying accident, which caused recurring bouts of spinal tuberculosis throughout his life. He began painting while convalescing in a hospital in Denver.
        In the late 1940's, he studied painting with David Parks at the San Francisco Art Institute and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in fine arts and art history from Berkeley. In 1950, he moved to Paris, becoming part of a circle of young American painters who included Al Held, Shirley Jaffe, Kimber Smith, Norman Bluhm and Joan Mitchell.
        A jovial-looking man who loved to travel and set up studios in different parts of the world, Mr. Francis didn't see painting as something that necessarily had to stay on canvas. In addition to several large-scale public murals, he also orchestrated environmental paintings on a Japanese ski slope and over Tokyo Bay, using sprayed pigments, in the late 1960's.
        After the mid-1960's Mr. Francis lived primarily in the Los Angeles area, making his headquarters the Litho Shop in Santa Monica, which he established in 1974. There he worked with a master printer, George Page, converting his well-known style into lithographs. He was a founding trustee of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles.
        His work, which is in museums around the world, has been the subject of several museum retrospectives.
        Mr. Francis's first four marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his fifth wife, Margaret Smith Francis; three sons, Augustus, Osamu, of San Francisco, and Shingo, of Santa Monica; a daughter, Kayo Francis Malik of Hilo, Hawaii; a brother, George, of Clinton, Wash., and three grandchildren.
      