
        Donald Ballard Jones, a Trenton lawyer and preservationist, died on Saturday at his home in Sergeantsville, N.J. He was 83.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Jones was the president and counsel of Charles Jones Inc., a computer information company dealing with title searches and related aspects of legal and real-estate services. The family business dates to 1906, when his father, Charles, started a legal search firm; Donald Jones formally established it under its present name in 1937.
        But to a wider public, Mr. Jones was best known as a determined preservationist who spent much of his time and money -- well into the six figures, he said -- over the last 35 years to save what he called those "lovely old landmarks."
        Among the New Jersey structures he saved from developers and decay were the Green-Sergeantsville Covered Bridge, named after families in that area and the last of its kind in the state; the Lockton Church in Hunterdon; the Prallsville Mills in Stockton, and the Tudor mansion in Trenton, which once belonged to the family of John A. Roebling, the builder of the Brooklyn Bridge. All were restored and are used as cultural and educational centers.
        A gentleman farmer, Mr. Jones grew alfalfa, hay and timothy on the 250-acre Brook Hollow Farms, where his house has stood since 1760.
        He was born in Montclair, N.J., and graduated from Yale University and its law school. Under his guidance, Charles Jones Inc. installed equipment that by 1972, made the company a leader in the field of computerized search systems.
        He was a past president of the New Jersey Conservation Foundation and was active in the Tidelands Resource Council, the Hunterdon County Planning Board and Delaware and Raritan State Park.
        "I like rural scenery and good architecture," he once said. "I guess I'm a sucker for saving New Jersey landmarks."
        Mr. Jones is survived by his wife of 41 years, Beverley Johns Jones; two sons, Christopher, of Anchorage, and Brian, of Lambertville, N.J.; four daughters, Sandra Praeger of Colorado Springs, Leslie Sauer of Philadelphia, Candace Phillips of Solebury Township, Pa., and Stephanie Starkey of Boston; a sister, Shirley Durbin of La Jolla, Calif.; 14 grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      