
        James William Moore, a legal scholar, teacher and authority on Federal Court practice and procedure, died on Wednesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 89.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Professor Moore was the Sterling Professor Emeritus of Law at Yale University, where he taught for 37 years. He was also the author of the 34-volume "Moore's Federal Practice" (2d ed., 1948) and the three-volume "Moore's Manual: Federal Practice & Procedure" (1962).
        Both works are updated with loose-leaf binders that his publisher, Matthew Bender & Company of New York, circulates to subscribers four times a year. Until about 10 years ago, Professor Moore wrote most of the updates, and until 1990 he continued to contribute to them, a spokesman for the publisher said.
        On Law Day 1962, the Federal Bar Council of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut honored Professor Moore with its first Learned Hand Medal for excellence in jurisprudence.
        Professor Moore was a member of the United States Supreme Court's Advisory Committee on Federal Rules and of the Judicial Conference of the United States, and he served as Co-Reporter of the International Academy of Comparative Law at The Hague. His expertise extended to bankruptcy law, corporate reorganization and the rights of debtors and creditors, subjects to which he contributed as an author and editor.
        He was born on a farm in Condon, Ore., and attended a one-room school in rural Montana. In 1922, at age 18, he graduated from Montana State College in Bozeman with high honors, and in 1934 he graduated cum laude from the University of Chicago Law School.
        After earning a doctorate at Yale Law School, he taught at Chicago for two years before returning to Yale as an associate professor. He was named Sterling Professor in 1943 and reached emeritus status in 1974.
        Professor Moore is survived by his wife of more than 60 years, Etta Gracey Moore; a son, William E., of Old Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Valerie A. Woodard of Gainesville, Fla.; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      