
        John Anthony Volpe, a former Governor of Massachusetts, Ambassador to Italy and United States Secretary of Transportation, died last night of natural causes in Nahunt, Mass., the police said. He was 85.
        Mr. Volpe, who was born in a Boston suburb the son of Italian immigrants, began his long political career as a Republican organizer while operating a successful construction business during the 1930's. His business was built from the earnings he eked out from the construction jobs he had had since he was 9 years old, with a small loan and with a $300 insurance policy he cashed at the height of the Depression.
        In World War II, he served with the Seabees, the Navy's construction battalions, and became a lieutenant commander.
        In 1953, Gov. Christian A. Herter appointed him Commissioner of Public Works in Massachusetts. Three years later, President Dwight D. Eisenhower named him interim Federal Highway Administrator and he helped to start the Interstate Highway System. In 1960, he returned to Massachusetts and was elected Governor, but lost what was then the two-year post in 1962. He regained the office two years later and was easily elected to a third term in 1966, when the term of office became four years.
        As a Republican, Mr. Volpe was in a political minority in a state of powerful Democrats, but he was an early and loyal supporter of Richard M. Nixon, and was briefly considered by Mr. Nixon as a running mate in 1968.
        President Nixon named him Transportation Secretary in 1969, a job in which he served as a leader in the fight against drunk driving and as a vociferous supporter of a national transportation system, including improved passenger train travel.
        Mr. Volpe held that position until 1973, when President Nixon named him Ambassador to Italy, where he stayed for four years and where his primary concern was with the re-emergence of the Communist Party in his parent's native land.
        He was a religious man who hewed closely to his Roman Catholic upbringing, often peppering his conversations and news conferences with references to "the Dear Lord," and who eschewed alcohol for tea laced with honey.
        He is survived by his wife, Giovaninna Benedetto; a daughter, Mrs. Loretta Jean Rotondi, and a son, John Jr.
      