
        Vicente Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon, who played a leading role in the transition from dictatorship to democracy in Spain as Archbishop of Madrid and head of the Council of Bishops, died this morning in Casa de Salud, a hospital in Valencia. He was 87.
        He died of lung cancer, according to his doctor, Eduardo Benlloch. His body will lie in state on Tuesday in San Isidro Church in Madrid, where he will be buried later as he requested.
        Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon is credited with steering the Spanish Roman Catholic hierarchy, which had supported the dictatorship of Francisco Franco since the civil war of 1936-1939, to a more conciliatory attitude toward the democratic opposition.
        Scholars consider the Cardinal's sermon at the Coronation Mass of King Juan Carlos on Nov. 27, 1975, one of the most important texts of the Spanish political transition. Only days after the death of Franco, the homily called for a national reconciliation of all political forces. This was to become the guiding principle behind the democratic transition in Spain and an inspiration to other countries evolving from totalitarian governments to democracy.
        At the coronation, the Cardinal also called for the separation of church and state.
        Born on May 14, 1907, to a poor farming family in Burriana, in rural eastern Spain, Vicente Enrique y Tarancon was ordained a priest in 1929. He became Bishop in 1946 and was named Cardinal in 1969 by Pope Paul VI. That same year he had become Primate of Spain and Archbishop of Toledo.
        In 1971 he became Archbishop of Madrid and was elected the next year to head the Council of Bishops, where he soon had frequent clashes with the Franco dictatorship because of his outspoken support of free workers unions and calls for more democratic freedoms. He headed the council until 1981.
        After his retirement from ecclesiastical duties in 1983, the Cardinal continued to be the conscience of Spanish politics, criticizing corruption in the Socialist Government of Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez in 1989.
        Elias Cardinal Yanes, the current head of the Council of Bishops, said Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon "was a historical figure of extraordinary importance in the history of the church in Spain, who will go down in history."
        Asked in an earlier interview on Spanish Television what his greatest accomplishment was, Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon said, "I influenced all I could to avoid another armed confrontation between Spaniards."
        Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon is survived by his sister, Vicenta, with whom he lived during the final years of his life.
      