
        Sir Ian Potter, an Australian financier and philanthropist, died on Oct. 24 at his home in Melbourne, Australia. He was 92.
        Sir Ian, who was knighted in 1962, retired in 1967 from his stockbrokerage, where he had been the principal partner for 30 years after founding it in 1936 as Ian Potter & Company. Later it changed its name to Potter Partners, and it is now Potter Warburg Ltd.
        In 1967, Sir Ian also retired from Australian United Corporation Ltd., one of Australia's first merchant banks, which he had set in operation in 1957. An Australian newspaper, The Weekend Australian, said that in founding the bank he had help from J. P. Morgan, Morgan Grenfell and Lazard Brothers, "which courted him for some time before he joined the venture."
        Sir Ian founded the Tricontinental merchant bank in 1969 and sold most of his interest in it in 1979, the newspaper reported.
        He was born in Sydney, Australia, while his British parents were working there in connection with their wool business, which was based in Bradford, England.
        Sir Ian grew up largely in England and in Scotland and earned a bachelor's degree in economics in Australia, at Sydney University. He was a stockbroker in Melbourne and an economist for the Australian Treasury in Canberra before founding his stockbrokerage and serving in the Australian Navy in World War II. With time, the firm prospered and broadened its activities to encompass underwriting.
        He was on the international advisory board of Chemical Bank from 1967 to 1977 and on the boards of a variety of Australian companies. Charles Goode, chairman of Potter Warburg Asset Management Ltd. in Melbourne, said that, over the years, Sir Ian was chairman of the Australian boards of units of major international companies like Nestle and Ciba-Geigy. He was also active in his country's Liberal Party.
        In 1964, he set up the Ian Potter Foundation, and his money has gone mainly to the arts and charitable fields. He has been a governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company at Stratford-on-Avon, England, and chairman of the Australian Ballet and the Australian Opera.
        Sir Ian is survived by his wife of 19 years, the former Primrose Dunlop; two daughters from earlier marriages, Robin Potter and Carolyn Parker Bowles; a stepdaughter, Primrose Krasicki; two grandchildren and a step-grandchild
      