
        Milton J. Petrie, the retailer and philanthropist who gave to charities, arts institutions and people he read about in the newspaper, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.
        Mr. Petrie, who had been ill most of this year, died of lung and kidney problems, his wife, Carroll, said.
        One of the country's wealthiest men, with a fortune estimated at $940 million by Forbes magazine, Mr. Petrie became known as one of its most generous, using his millions to ease the burdens of everyday people in distress as well as for more traditional causes like cancer cures, the arts, and religious and educational institutions.
        "He gave to a lot of organized charities," said Joseph H. Flom, a corporate lawyer in New York who was a friend of Mr. Petrie. "That's easy. But there are literally hundreds of people, just regular people, that he takes care of and has taken care of for years."
        When Officer Anthony J. Venditti of the New York City Police Department was killed by mobsters in 1986, Mr. Petrie sent Mrs. Venditti a check for $20,000, set up a $100,000 trust fund to pay for the education of the three Venditti children and paid off the family's mortgage.
        He did much the same in 1984 for the Kienast family of Liberty Corner, N.J., after William Kienast, the father of quintuplets and two other children, took his own life. Mr. Petrie helped countless other families and individuals whose plight he learned of while reading The New York Post.
        He was also a generous donor to Beth Israel Medical Center and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, and in 1987, he and Carroll Petrie, his fourth wife, gave $10 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art for the Carroll and Milton Petrie European Sculpture Garden. In 1992, Mayor David N. Dinkins declared June 12 Milton Petrie Day in New York City to honor Mr. Petrie's many philanthropic acts.
        While his friends from the financial world usually met Mr. Petrie during business deals, they got to know him over the card table at the Regency Whist Club on East 67th Street in Manhattan. There, Mr. Petrie whiled away hours playing bridge with luminaries like Alan C. Greenberg, the chairman of Bear, Stearns & Company; Laurence A. Tisch, the chairman and chief executive of the Loews Corporation and CBS Inc.; A. Alfred Taubman, the shopping center magnate, and Jack Dreyfus, the founder of the Dreyfus Corporation.
        The son of immigrants from Russia, Milton Petrie was born on Aug. 5, 1902, in Salt Lake City, where his parents had opened a pawn shop. The family later moved to Indiana, and Mr. Petrie dreamed of becoming a baseball player.
        Instead, he built a fortune from a retailing business that he built over several decades starting in the 1920's, as well as from investments he made for himself and for the Petrie Stores Corporation.
        Mr. Petrie's first attempt to accumulate a fortune failed when a chain of hosiery stores he founded in 1927 with his winnings from a craps game went bankrupt.
        But he paid his creditors in full, a fact that he liked to mention in interviews and that apparently stood him in good stead with banks and other financial institutions whose help he needed when he began putting together his retailing empire.
        His company's stores, which operate under a variety of different names, like Marianne, Stuarts, Rave and G& G, catered to budget-conscious women with inexpensive clothing and accessories. As shopping malls became fixtures of the American landscape, Petrie Stores began to acquire regional specialty store chains, establishing a strong national presence.
        Mr. Petrie was able to obtain low rents from mall operators, which, coupled with a no-advertising policy and his no-frills store decor, helped the company keep prices low. It also perfected a method of testing new merchandise by buying small quantities and watching sales in a few stores. If sales took off, it would reorder for all its stores, using its size to extract better prices from its vendors.
        That practice of testing merchandise in a few locations is now used by the Limited Inc. and several other specialty store retailers.
        But retailing changed. Competition became more intense, shopping shifted away from regional malls and customers began putting a premium on service, which was never a Petrie Stores strength. In the mid-80's, Wall Street urged Mr. Petrie to bring in new management to help the company adapt to the changes that were sweeping the industry, but he never loosed his grip on the business, continuing to run it with the help of trusted lieutenants.
        While the company's business floundered, its shares continued to attract investors because of a shrewd investment Mr. Petrie made. In 1978, he began accumulating shares of a little-known toy retailer, Toys "R" Us, whose stock traded for what amounted to pennies.
        Today, Petrie Stores owns 14.1 percent of Toys "R" Us, which today is worth about $1.5 billion. Petrie Stores itself is in the process of liquidating by selling its 1,674 stores to an investor group and distributing its Toys "R" Us shares to its shareholders, most of whom will reap a hefty profit. Mr. Petrie's death is not expected to alter those plans.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Petrie is survived by three children, a son, Bernard, of San Francisco, and two daughters, Marianne Miller of Greenwich, Conn., and Patricia Hugenberg of Belvedere, Calif.; his first wife, Yetta, and two grandchildren.
        Services are to be held today at 11 A.M. at Temple Emanuel in New York City.
      