
        Erwin E. Kelm, who led Cargill Inc. through a period of rapid growth in the 1970's that helped propel the agribusiness giant to its position as the nation's largest family-owned company, died on Sunday at his home in Minneapolis, the company said yesterday. He was 83.
        Mr. Kelm died after a long struggle with heart disease, the company said.
        Mr. Kelm spent his entire career at Cargill, joining the company as a barley and grain trader after graduating from the University of Minnesota in 1933 with a marketing degree. As chief executive from 1961 until his retirement in 1977, he was the only person to head Cargill who was not a Cargill or a MacMillan, the two families related by marriage that own the 129-year-old company.
        Cargill, which is based in the Minneapolis suburb of Minnetonka, had sales of more than $47 billion in the fiscal year that ended May 31.
        Before becoming chief executive, Mr. Kelm was a major supporter of Cargill's entry into international grain trading. The company's Tradax subsidiary, based in Switzerland, rapidly became a major handler of grain from all over the world. Mr. Kelm conceded that the international business exposed Cargill to far more freight and currency risks, but he asserted, "Risk management is our strength."
        He later strongly backed an expansion of American agricultural trade with the Soviet Union and led a major buildup in Cargill's capacity to export grain and processed soybean oil to that country and others. Cargill also set up its first European soybean processing plants under his leadership and expanded into both steel production and financial services.
        Mr. Kelm was born Nov. 4, 1911, in Grand Rapids, Minn., the son of Edward Kelm, a tailor, and Adele Hachez. He rose quickly through Cargill's ranks after spending his first 13 years as a grain trader, becoming vice president of the grain division in 1946, director of operations in 1954, a member of the board in 1955, executive vice president in 1957 and president in 1960. He added the title of chairman to his job as chief executive in 1968.
        Mr. Kelm is survived by his wife, Caroline; a son, David E., of New Orleans; a daughter, Susan Kelm Talbot of Edina, Minn.; three grandchildren, and five stepchildren. His first wife, Joyce Bankston, died in 1980.
      