
        Cab Calloway, the flamboyant band leader who strutted and scat-sang his way to enduring fame as the "Hi-de-ho" man of jazz, died on Friday in a nursing home in Hockessin, Del. He was 86 and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y.
        The cause was a stroke he suffered in June, said his wife, Nuffie.
        Mr. Calloway, who gave up law school and spurned an offer to play basketball with the Harlem Globetrotters to pursue his music, led one of the most successful bands in the Big Band era. He later toured the world playing Sportin' Life in "Porgy and Bess," a role that George Gershwin, who composed the score, had modeled on Mr. Calloway's colorful performing style.
        The trademark Calloway image, which combined an almost cat-like grace on the bandstand with a singing style that could be slyly insinuating one moment and wildly exuberant the next, came into full bloom on a night in 1931 when he was leading his band in a radio broadcast from the Cotton Club in Harlem.
        He had recently written "Minnie the Moocher," a new radio theme song for his band. The song combined a melody that was very close to the band's previous theme, "St. James Infirmary," with lyrics patterned on those of two other popular songs of the day, "Willie the Weeper" and "Minnie the Mermaid."
        As he started to sing the song, Mr. Calloway suddenly realized that he could not remember the lyrics.
        "I couldn't leave a blank there as I might have done if we weren't on the air," he wrote in his autobiography, "Of Minnie the Moocher and Me." "I had to fill the space so I started to scat-sing the first thing that came into my mind."
        What he scatted was: "Hi-de-hi-de-hi- de-ho. Ho-de-ho-de-ho-de-hee. Oodlee-odlye-odlyee-oodlee-doo."
        "The crowd went crazy," Mr. Calloway recalled. "I asked the band to follow me. I sang 'Ho-de-hi-de-hi-de-do.' And the band responded. I sang, 'Dwaa-de-dwaa-de-dwaa-de-doo.' I asked the audience to join in. They hollered back and nearly brought the roof down."
        His record of "Minnie the Moocher," issued in 1931, became his first big hit and gave his band an immediate identity. In 1980, he introduced the song to a new generation when he appeared in the film "The Blues Brothers."
        Although he studied law at Crane College in Chicago, Mr. Calloway's interests as a young man were sports and show business.
        Cabell Calloway was born on Dec. 25, 1907, in Rochester. His father was a lawyer, his mother a teacher. The family soon moved to Baltimore, where he was reared. His older sister, Blanche, who was a singer, got him his first show-business job singing in "Plantation Days," a touring show in which she was featured.
        When the tour ended in Chicago, Mr. Calloway kept a promise he had made to his sister that he would enter law school. But at the same time he was playing basketball well enough to get an offer from the Globetrotters. And he was moonlighting as a nightclub singer at the Sunset Cafe, where Louis Armstrong was playing in Carroll Dickerson's orchestra.
        Mr. Calloway and Armstrong became friendly during the six months they were together at the club. Armstrong was already scat-singing and he planted the seeds for Calloway's later success.
        Mr. Calloway's energetic versatility began to show at the Sunset. He became the master of ceremonies and was soon leading the Alabamians, the band that succeeded the Dickerson orchestra.
        With the Alabamians, Mr. Calloway came to New York for an engagement at the Savoy Ballroom in November 1929. The band was so ineffective musically that it received its two-week closing notice after opening night. On their final night at the Savoy, the Alabamians were trounced in a Battle of Bands, a Savoy institution, by another new band from the Midwest, the Missourians. The same audience that voted overwhelmingly in favor of the Missourians also voted with equal strength for Mr. Calloway as the better of the two band leaders.
        Soon afterward the Savoy management decided to blend the winners and asked Mr. Calloway to become the leader of the Missourians. As Cab Calloway and His Orchestra, the band replaced Duke Ellington's orchestra in 1930 at the Cotton Club. Its music was broadcast from there almost nightly and the stage was set for the radio explosion of "Minnie the Moocher."
        The band continued to play and record until 1948 when, as the Big Band era faded, he gave up the band and performed with a small group that included Jonah Jones, Milt Hinton and the drummer Panama Francis.
        In 1952, he finally played the role that George Gershwin had offered him in 1935, the drug-peddling Sportin' Life in "Porgy and Bess." He toured in the show overseas and in the United States with great success for three and a half years.
        When the production opened on Broadway in March 1953, Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times: "Cab Calloway's Sportin' Life is a marvelous creation -- heroically wicked, magnetic, an evil man with the courage of his convictions."
        In 1967, he was back on Broadway in an all-black version of "Hello, Dolly!" with Pearl Bailey. He also appeared in many movies, starting with "The Big Broadcast of 1932" and including "The Singing Kid" with Al Jolson in 1936 and "Stormy Weather" with Lena Horne in 1943.
        Among the songs Mr. Calloway made famous were "Jim, Jam, Jump," "Are You All Reet?" "The Jumpin' Jive," "Boog it" and "Peck-a Doodle Doo." A lexicographer as well as a composer, Mr. Calloway compiled the "Hipsters Dictionary," which was updated several times.
        In addition to his wife of 49 years, he is survived by four daughters, Camay Murphy of Baltimore; Chris Calloway of Santa Fe, N.M., a singer; Eulalia Tyson of Gaithersburg, Md., and Cabella Langsam of Wilmington, Del., and seven grandsons.
      