
        Edward Rogers Wardwell, a retired New York lawyer and patron of the arts, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 and also had a home in Lawrence, L.I.
        He died after a brief illness, said a partner in his old firm, Francis J. Morison.
        Mr. Wardwell, an amateur pianist, was a promoter of classical music in New York along with his wife, Lelia. Their decadeslong involvement fostered Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the Juilliard School and Yale Music School.
        He was a senior partner in Davis Polk & Wardwell, a large international law firm based in Manhattan. He practiced corporate law during more than 40 years at the firm, working for clients like Morgan Stanley and J. P. Morgan & Company, and retired about 20 years ago.
        In the late 1930's, he was one of the organizers of the American Lyric Theatre, which made its debut in 1939 to encourage and produce the lyric musical drama. He was the company's first president.
        He was commissioned a captain in the United States Army Air Force in World War II and served as a legal officer. He was discharged in 1945 as a lieutenant colonel.
        He was made a law partner in 1946, and in 1962 opened his firm's first European office in Paris and remained as resident partner until two years later.
        He served as a director of the Juilliard School from 1951 to 1962, and of Lincoln Center from 1973 to 1980. His involvement with the Chamber Music Society predated the society's birth in 1968. He belonged to an exploratory committee the year before, and became the society's first vice president and a director when it emerged as a constituent of Lincoln Center. He later served as president and remained a director at his death.
        He joined Alice Tully, another founding director, in 1980 to endow the society's Music Chair for piano. The income from their gift helped pay the fees of performing pianists. He was a backer of the Education Committee, and attended its annual meeting and the society's season opener even last month.
        Mr. Wardwell, a native of Lawrence, graduated in 1927 from Yale University. In 1931, he received his law degree at Columbia Law School and joined Davis Polk.
        He is survived by his wife of 64 years, Lelia Morgan Wardwell; two daughters, Lelia Seidner of Inverness, Calif., and Helen DuBois of Manhattan; a son, Allen, also of Manhattan; nine grandchilden and three great-grandchildren.
      