
        Dr. Jules H. Masserman, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who was a former president of the American Psychiatric Association and a former member of the Northwestern University medical school faculty, died on Nov. 6 at his home in Chicago. He was 89.
        He had been suffering from lung ailments in recent months, said his wife, Christine.
        Dr. Masserman was the association's 107th president, in 1978 and 1979. In past decades he was also president of the American Society for Group Therapy, the American Association for Social Psychiatry, the American Society for Biological Psychiatry and the American Academy of Psychoanalysis.
        He taught psychiatry and neurology at Northwestern University's medical school from the 1940's to the 1970's, serving for some years as co-chairman of the psychiatry department. He received a succession of honors in his field.
        The monthly Current Biography wrote in 1980: "A unifying force in a field fraught with divergent schools and tendencies, Dr. Jules H. Masserman has combined erudition with a strong scientific commitment in formulating his major contributions to psychiatric theory, research and clinical practice."
        He was the author of a score of books and more than 400 articles. He also edited numerous books and journals and had a hand in the making of more than a dozen films.
        In 1987, Dr. Masserman retired from clinical practice after settlements were reached in lawsuits by women who were former patients asserting that he had drugged and sexually abused them. He denied the accusations, and no criminal charges resulted. By early 1992, four malpractice claims against Dr. Masserman had been settled out of court.
        One of the women who sued, Barbara Noel, a singer and composer, wrote a 1992 book, "You Must Be Dreaming," with Kathryn Watterson, in which she detailed her charges against him. Her story was the subject of a made-for-television film.
        Ms. Noel wrote that she became in thrall to Dr. Masserman and awoke on the couch in his examination room during a session in 1984 involving the intravenous use of sodium amytal, to discover him raping her.
        Dr. Masserman went on to write a book in collaboration with his wife that was published by Regent earlier this year under the title "Sexual Allegations and Social Turmoil: What Can Be Done." The Massermans said that medical and police investigations had proved the allegations by Ms. Noel to be false.
        Ms. Noel filed a complaint with the Illinois Psychiatric Society, which found cause for sanctions, and voted to suspend Dr. Masserman's membership in the society for five years. Dr. Masserman appealed unsuccessfully to the parent group, the American Psychiatric Association. A spokesman for the national group declined to discuss the specific grounds for the suspension.
        Jules Masserman was born in Poland and emigrated to Detroit with his family when he was small. He grew up there and received his medical degree from Wayne University.
        In addition to his wife of 52 years, the former Christine McGuire, he is survived by a brother, Theodore of Detroit.
      