
        Milton Taylor, who with his brother Ralph took over the venerable Caswell-Massey pharmacy on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan in 1936 and helped build it into an international purveyor of fashionable toiletries, died on Saturday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 86.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Mr. Taylor's son Adam.
        The flagship store, at 518 Lexington Avenue, at 48th Street, is believed to be a descendant of the oldest pharmacy in America. The business was opened in Newport, R.I., in 1752 by Dr. William Hunter, a Scottish physician, and moved to its first New York location in 1856. The flagship store has been a Caswell-Massey pharmacy since 1926.
        Although legendary for such concoctions as elder-flower-and-cucumber cream, spermaceti-oil soaps and Florentine-violet-orris sachet, the store is perhaps best identified with its Number 6 cologne, a concoction of orange, lemon, neroli, oil of rosemary and bergamot that was sold to George Washington, the Marquis de Lafayette and Jenny Lind.
        Mr. Taylor, a linguist who spoke Japanese, cultivated many well-known clients at the store, including the Aga Khan, Katharine Hepburn, Albert Einstein, Greta Garbo and Van Johnson. This continued the tradition of Caswell-Massey, which has had as customers Lillian Russell, Diamond Jim Brady, Edwin Booth, John Drew and Sarah Bernhardt.
        Milton Solomon Taylor was born March 3, 1907, in Manhattan. His father, Simon, was a retail merchant who owned hat and hardware stores.
        After graduating from De Witt Clinton High School and the Columbia University School of Pharmacy, Mr. Taylor worked as a pharmacist in a variety of stores before buying Caswell-Massey with his brother.
        Ralph Taylor, who died in 1993, ran the wholesale and manufacturing business; Milton ran the store and mail-order businesses.
        When Milton and Ralph Taylor sold the store for an undisclosed price to Peter Hsu and Sally Aw, Hong Kong investors, there were 35 Caswell-Massey stores and the company's merchandise was sold in 4,000 retail outlets worldwide.
        Industry trade newspapers have estimated Caswell-Massey's 1993 annual sales at $50 million. The company's catalogue is mailed to 500,000 households worldwide, and there are 28 stores in the United States and two in Hong Kong.
        Milton Taylor is survived by his wife, Zelda, of Manhattan; his sons, Adam, of Marina del Rey, Calif., and Joshua, of Jersey City, and a sister, Lucille Ruderman of Jerusalem.
      