
        Helen Payne Wilshire Walsh, who for decades worked on behalf of the disabled, died on Monday in Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. A resident of Greenwich, she was 97.
        Mrs. Walsh suffered a long illness, said her niece, Helen Payne Clarke, also of Greenwich.
        To Fairfield County, Mrs. Walsh was a matriarch of Republican politics and a doyenne of society. But she was known internationally for her work with the disabled, traveling the world to speak, raise funds and visit hospitals and refugee camps.
        She was a friend of former President George Bush, at one time a Greenwich resident, who appointed her to a three-year term on the National Council on Disability in 1990 when she was 92. The panel drafts legislation on behalf of the disabled.
        "Of all the people who gave of themselves to the political process," Mr. Bush said from his office in Houston, "Helen Walsh ranks right up there with those I admired the most." She was, he said, a "revered friend and an inspiration to me in both my private and public life."
        Over the years, Mrs. Walsh worked inside many institutions and organizations, including the Institute of Rehabilitative Medicine of New York University Medical Center. She served as president of Rehabilitation International USA and vice president of Rehabilitation International, a worldwide volunteer agency.
        President Richard M. Nixon named her to his National Advisory Council of Vocational Rehabilitation in the early 1970's.
        She received the 1972 Howard A. Rusk Award from the Institute for Rehabilitative Medicine.
        She was vice chairman of the Republican Town Committee and a member of the party's State Central and Finance Committees.
        Helen Payne was born in 1897 in Cincinnati. She came to Greenwich in 1932 with her first husband, Joseph Wilshire, a future chairman of Standard Brands. He died in 1951, and in 1968 she married William Walsh, a political consultant, who died in 1983.
        Mrs. Walsh is survived by a stepson, William James Walsh, of Princeton, N.J., and two step-grandsons, Joseph W. Wilshire 4th of Goshen, Conn., and Van H. Wilshire of Greenwich.
      