
        Mildred Hilson, a grande dame of New York's charity circuit who entertained royalty and heads of state in her suite at the Waldorf Towers, died yesterday morning at home. She was 96.
        She had been in poor health for five years, her granddaughter, Wendy Levey, said.
        Even in her later years, Mrs. Hilson possessed a certain mischievous charm. "She lived on chocolate-covered marshmallows," Mrs. Levey said. "She had them hidden all over the house. The only ones who knew where they were were she and my 5-year-old daughter, Mariel."
        Mrs. Hilson was the widow of Edwin I. Hilson, an investment banker, who died in 1952. She took his seat on the board of the Hospital for Special Surgery after his death, and five years later was named vice president, a title she held until her death.
        As perennial chairwoman of the hospital's annual benefit, Mrs. Hilson raised more than $15 million. The plaza of a new hospital residence was dedicated to her in 1989. That year another of her charities, the New York City division of the American Cancer Society, gave her its humanitarian award. She also received the Sarnoff Award for volunteer service from the women's division of Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
        An effective fund-raiser for the Republican Party, Mrs. Hilson lent her name to a series of citizens' committees to elect or re-elect Republican candidates to state and national office.
        She was a patron of the arts, serving on the board of the Museum of the City of New York and on the New York City Cultural Council. In the late 1960's she was Mayor John V. Lindsay's unsalaried representative on cultural affairs.
        "Don't make me sound all good-workish," she once told an interviewer. "I really so enjoy life. I adore to entertain."
        The guest lists for her parties were dazzling. The Duke and Duchess of Windsor were among those who dined in her scarlet drawing room, as were the actor Laurence Olivier, numerous United Nations ambassadors and several American presidents.
        President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, who occupied a Towers suite when he was chief United States delegate to the United Nations, returned to visit their friend and neighbor after moving to the White House.
        President Dwight D. Eisenhower painted a portrait of Mrs. Hilson that hangs in her study. And in 1988, former President Richard M. Nixon played "Happy Birthday" on the piano at her 90th-birthday gala at the St. Regis while 200 guests sang along.
        Mrs. Hilson maintained her interest in politics throughout her life. "Only a year ago, when Mayor Giuliani and his wife, Donna, were dining at my apartment," Mrs. Levey said, "she called and asked to speak to the Mayor and gave him half an hour of her advice on running the city."
        A stately, elegant woman almost 6 feet tall, Mrs. Hilson was dressed by several of the great couturiers. In 1989, although bedridden, she was still able to have a preview of the spring collection, when Hubert de Givenchy took one of his models to her apartment for a private showing.  Mrs. Hilson's daughter, Mary Wolf, died in 1987, and her son, John S., in 1991. She is survived, in addition to Mrs. Levey, by four grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      