
        Luther H. Foster Jr., who headed Tuskegee Institute for 28 years, died on Sunday at the South Fulton County Medical Center in East Point, Ga., while on his way home from vacation. He was 81 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Adrienne Foster Williams of Iselin, N.J.
        Dr. Foster was president of Tuskegee, a 113-year-old historically black college in Tuskegee, Ala., from 1953 to 1981, a tenure that included the civil rights and antiwar movements. Tuskegee's current president, Dr. Benjamin F. Payton, said his predecessor's "quiet but firm" hand had been a stabilizing influence on the campus during those tumultuous years. During that time, the institute grew to more than 3,500 students from about 2,000. In 1985, it was renamed Tuskegee University.
        After retiring, Dr. Foster devoted his time to working with educational and other organizations. At the time of his death, he was chairman of the Academy for Educational Development, a Washington nonprofit organization that promotes educational programs in more than 80 American communities and 100 countries. He was a board member and former president of the United Negro College Fund and was a director of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies.
        Dr. Foster was born on the campus of St. Paul's College in Lawrenceville, Va., where his father was an administrator. He earned undergraduate degrees from Virginia State College in 1932 and from what is now Hampton University in 1934.  He received a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University in 1936 and a master's degree from the University of Chicago in 1941 and and a Ph.D. in 1951.
        He joined Tuskegee as business manager in 1941, and in 1953 he became its fourth president.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife of 53 years, Vera Chandler Foster; his mother, Daisy P., of Petersburg, Va.; a son, L. Hilton, of Washington; two sisters, Virginia Hendrick of Petersburg and Mary Allen Burleigh of Clarksburg, W. Va., and five grandchildren.
      