
        Former Gov. Orval E. Faubus of Arkansas, whose defiance of a Federal desegregation order in 1957 led to a school crisis in Little Rock and set the tone for the South's white resistance to integration, died yesterday at his home in Conway, Ark. He was 84.
        The cause of death was not immediately announced, although he had acknowledged that he had bone cancer and had had two operations for prostate cancer.
        Mr. Faubus rose from rural poverty to win election as governor for six terms, serving from 1955 to 1967. In their resistance to integration, he and some of his fellow Governors, including Ross Barnett of Mississippi and George C. Wallace of Alabama, helped define the bloody canvas of the civil rights era when white Southerners defied court-ordered desegregation of the public schools.
        But rather than a symbol of racial hatred, many historians of racial relations and the South say Mr. Faubus stands for something else: the way Southern politicians, either through cowardice or expedience, used race as a path to power whether they were animated by racial animus or not.
        Indeed, Mr. Faubus, the son of a Socialist, was a relatively liberal figure who had never used race as an issue until fate placed him center stage in one of the early defining moments of the civil rights era.
        "He could possibly be closer to a tragic figure than anyone I can think of in this century," said Robert Savage, chairman of the political science department at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. "People use the term all the time, but Faubus come closer than most because his hubris, his romping ambition, got in the way of doing what I suspect he knew was right."
        His most famous moment, his defiance of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's order to desegregate Central High School in Little Rock, proved to be a supremely mixed experience. The order came after the 1954 Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education, which ruled that states must desegregate the public schools "with all deliberate speed."
        The violent confrontation that followed Mr. Faubus's defiance of the desegregation order galvanized whites and cemented his position of power. That allowed him to become the first Governor of Arkansas to serve more than two two-year terms. The only other Governor to do it was the man he challenged in 1986 in one of his hapless, intermittent comeback bids: Bill Clinton.
        But the confrontation at Central High obliterated the rest of Mr. Faubus's record to the extent that, at the end of his long life, he felt bitter and frustrated that his entire career as a progressive, often innovative governor was overshadowed by his one moment on the national stage.
        Orval Faubus was born on Jan. 7, 1910, in a two-room shack near Greasy Creek in the isolated and desperately poor hills of northwestern Arkansas. He was one of seven children of Sam Faubus, a farmer who worked the hillside soil to raise corn and light grain; Orval Faubus was reared in a world that owed little to the rhythms of the Deep South.
        Among the differences was politics. His father was a Socialist, bitterly resentful of Wall Street and the big-money world far from the mountain hollows where he raised his children. As a reflection of his world view, Sam Faubus gave his son the middle name of Eugene, after one of his heroes, the Socialist leader Eugene Debs.
        Orval grew up in the age before electricity and running water, at a time when rattlesnakes and copperheads in the high grass were more a part of life than any expectation of a world beyond the incessant labor of the hills.
        At 18, with only an eighth-grade education, he passed an examination for a state teaching certificate and began teaching school five miles from his home in the town of Pinnacle. While he was teaching, he also earned a high school diploma. In the summers, between teaching and classes, he took to riding trains as a hobo, following the strawberry harvests north to Michigan or heading west to pick apples and cut timber.
        The poverty of the hills and the Depression convinced him that government could be a force for good, and he returned home to enter county politics, eager to bring his region into the 20th century.
        In World War II he joined the Army, and rose to the rank of major in Army intelligence. After the war he returned home and continued in politics, becoming the State Highway Commissioner with a reputation as the most liberal member of the administration of Gov. Sid McMath.
        In 1954 he ran for governor as a populist champion, promising to bring roads, schools and prosperity to the Arkansas countryside, and was elected after surviving his opponent's effort to paint him as a radical.
        As Governor, Mr. Faubus was regarded as a moderate with little interest in race, less a defining issue in Arkansas than in other Southern states. Early in his term, Arkansas desegregated buses and and public transportation. He brought blacks into the ruling circles of the Democratic Party and looked on as some measure of school integration began to take place. Early in 1957, he passed a debated tax increase to raise teachers' pay, and faced a challenge on the right from a segregationist, Jim Johnson.
        Mr. Faubus has always said his actions at Central High were misunderstood, and his motives may never be fully known. But many historians believe that in facing a challenge on the right and a constituency uneasy about integration, and needing an issue to divert attention from his tax increase, he decided to draw the line with Washington over desegregation.
        Last year, in an interview with The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Mr. Faubus danced around the question of what his motives were, only to conclude: "It's true in politics as it is in life that survival is the first law." And he added: "One of my black friends came in during 1957 and said, 'Governor, if you hadn't done something, you'd have been a goner.' Voted out."
        Whatever the case, on Sept. 2, 1957, after a Federal court ordered the desegregation of the Little Rock schools, Mr. Faubus ordered the Arkansas National Guard to prevent nine black students from entering Central High. In a radio broadcast he assured white listeners and warned blacks that the school would be "off limits" to blacks.
        He said at the time that he acted because he had been told that caravans of white toughs were preparing to descend on Little Rock, and that he intervened to prevent violence. He never disclosed who had told him about the impending violence, and many skeptics say it was only a pretext.
        His action provoked a crisis that in some ways defined the course of integration battles elsewhere. Southern states, whether under the rubric of states' rights or the importance of defending segregation, defied Federal integration orders -- and it took Federal intervention to enforce them.
        On Sept. 20, a Federal judge ordered him to stop interfering with the desegregation plan. Three days later, the nine blacks entered Central High School through a side door as the police held off an angry crowd of whites cordoned off behind barricades.
        President Eisenhower, who had federalized the Guard to lift Mr. Faubus's control of it, then sent 1,200 paratroopers to protect the nine students. The students entered through the front door the next day while an Army helicopter hovered overhead and soldiers with rifles and bayonets held off rioting whites.
        Rather than back down, Mr. Faubus called the Federal action "the military occupation of Arkansas" and said, "We are now an occupied territory."
        The Governor maintained that his move was a principled one and that he knew it would harm him, but it made him politically unassailable in Arkansas, where he served four more terms before retiring.
        But, for a man who was once considered a possible Vice-Presidential candidate, it ended any chance of moving beyond the governorship. And much of Mr. Faubus's subsequent life was either troubled or unfulfilled.
        He divorced his first wife, Alta Haskins Faubus, in 1969 after 38 years of marriage. He was estranged from his second wife, Elizabeth Faubus, when she was found strangled in the bathtub of her home in Houston in March 1983. A Florida fugitive later pleaded guilty to the murder, and was sentenced to life in prison. Mr. Faubus is survived by his third wife, Jan.
        His only child, Farrell Faubus, died of a drug overdose in Seattle in 1976. Besides his wife, he is survived by two granddaughters.
        After leaving office, Mr. Faubus made sporadic attempts at a comeback, running for governor unsuccessfully in 1970, 1974 and 1986 and spending much of his time as a bank teller in the Ozark town of Huntsville.
        In his later years, he took to handing out copies of "The Faubus Years," his chronicle of his goals and accomplishments as Governor. And even his tombstone reflects a desire, if not an expectation, to be remembered on his own terms.
        It reads: "When I come to this, my last earthly resting place, may it be said of me: In the rise from obscurity, he served his country and the people well. He forsook not his own kind -- the common people; he dealt fairly with all men; his promises were kept; his debts were paid."
        Correction:  December 17, 1994, Saturday
        A picture caption on Thursday about Army troops sent to Little Rock, Ark., in 1957 to integrate Central High School misstated the content of one photograph in some copies. Gov. Orval Faubus, who resisted integration, was not shown in the 1957 photo.
      