
        Prof. Philip Morris Hauser, a demographer and a leading expert on urban affairs, died on Tuesday at Montgomery Place, a retirement home in Chicago. A lifelong resident of Chicago, he was 85.
        He suffered a long series of illnesses, including cancer, according to the University of Chicago, whose Population Research Center he founded in 1947 and headed until 1979. He was the Lucy Flower Professor Emeritus of Urban Sociology at the university and a past chairman of the department of sociology.
        Dr. Hauser shaped the Population Research Center into a pioneering institution for the study of demographic processes. His interests included the relationships between population characteristics and development, the problems of overpopulation, factors affecting fertility and mortality rates, the study of racial segregation and various aspects of urbanization.
        In his three decades as director of the center, he trained generations of graduates in sociology, with an emphasis on demography. About half of his students came from other countries and are now at work throughout the world, the university said.
        He was the author, co-author or editor of many books and studies, including a 1964 report on the racial integration of Chicago's public schools. He also served as a consultant to the United Nations.
        Born in Chicago, Dr. Hauser received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Chicago, whose faculty he joined in 1932. He worked at the United States Census Bureau in Washington as assistant chief statistician for population and was deputy director from 1938 to 1947, when he returned to the Chicago campus as a professor of sociology. He was named to the Lucy Flower chair in 1974.
        In 1949-50, he served as acting director of the Census Bureau while continuing to teach on weekends. His work at the bureau helped to improve methods for estimating the size of undercounted communities, particularly blacks.
        He was a longtime governor of the Metropolitan Housing and Planning Council of Chicago. In 1963 he became chairman of an advisory panel for the desegregation of the city's schools. But the panel did not act on his proposal for clustering the high schools so students could attend one of their choice.
        In the 1960's he and Prof. Evelyn M. Kitagawa, a former student, examined mortality figures and found significant differences based on social status and income, with college graduates living longer than those with less education. The result was their book, "Differential Mortality in the United States" (Harvard University Press, 1973), which remains in print.
        Among his other titles in print are "Social Statistics in Use" (Russell Sage, 1975), "The Population Dilemma" (American Assembly, 1963) and "World Population and Development: Challenges and Prospects" (Syracuse University Press, 1979).
        He was a past president of the American Sociological Association, the American Statistical Association and the Population Association of the United States.
        Dr. Hauser is survived by a son, William B., of Rochester; a daughter, Martha H. Baxter of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a brother, Julius, of Rockville, Md.; two sisters, Isobel Katz of San Diego and Lillian Dreiser of Downers Grove, Ill., and four grandsons.
      