
        Zail Singh, who was born to a poor peasant family but rose to become the first Sikh to win India's largely ceremonial office of President in 1982, died yesterday in the northern city of Chandigarh after suffering injuries in a car crash last month, an official communique said. He was 78.
        Before his five-year presidential term, Mr. Singh held powerful positions in the central Government and in his native state of Punjab.
        A veteran of the Indian independence movement against Britain, Mr. Singh was personally popular for his earthy humor and political skills.
        Mr. Singh was a close political confidant of Indira Gandhi, the Prime Minister from 1966-77 and 1980-84, who engineered his selection as President by the electoral college. Critics said this was a result of what they called his sycophancy, but the move was more widely seen as an attempt to calm Sikh militancy in Punjab.
        Mr. Singh was born into a poor farmer's family in the village of Sandhwan in Punjab on May 5, 1916. As a young man he resolved to become a professional reader of the Sikh scriptures, but instead joined the independence movement begun by Mohandas K. Gandhi when it swept the district where he lived.
        Mr. Singh founded a unit of Gandhi's Congress Party in the area and was imprisoned for five years for his political work. His involvement brought him to the notice of Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi's father, who became India's first Prime Minister when the country became independent in 1947.
        Mr. Nehru arranged a berth for Mr. Singh in the Punjab state cabinet soon after independence. He held a series of ministerial posts in Punjab until 1972, when he was elected Chief Minister, the state's top official. Under his administration, Punjab became the "wheat bowl" of India, with steady agricultural and industrial growth.
        After Mrs. Gandhi's defeat in the 1977 general elections, the new Government in New Delhi, led by Prime Minister Morarji R. Desai, dissolved several state legislatures, including Punjab's, and Mr. Singh was ousted.
        He remained steadfast by the Gandhis during their years in the opposition. When Mrs. Gandhi returned to power in January 1980, she rewarded his loyalty by appointing him Minister of Home Affairs, the head of the administrative department responsible for the police and law enforcement.
        Many saw his appointment, and his elevation to the presidency in 1982, as an effort by Mrs. Gandhi to appease the extremist demands in Punjab, which culminated in the storming of the Sikhs' holiest shrine, the Golden Temple in Amritsar, by Indian troops in 1984 and Mrs. Gandhi's assassination by Sikh bodyguards four months later.
        President Singh fell out with Mrs. Gandhi's son and successor, Rajiv, who declined to consult him on major issues.
        Mr. Singh and his wife, Pradhan Kaur, had one son and three daughters.
      