
        Herbert S. Zim, a prolific writer of children's science books who was best known for the Golden Nature Guides, died on Dec. 5 in Plantation Key, Fla., where he had lived for many years. He was 85 and suffered from Alzheimer's disease, family members said.
        Mr. Zim, the author or co-author of more than 100 books and countless articles, was known to generations of children as the man who explained everything from the workings of parachutes to which birds could be found in Central Park in the fall.
        The Golden Nature series, including "Birds," "Insects," "Fishes" and "Trees," exemplified his style: concise, engaging and comprehensible to children without being simplistic. The 1966 book "Birds of North America," which he co-wrote, is still regarded as a staple of the field.
        Herbert Spencer Zim was born on July 12, 1909, in New York City, and was raised here and in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        He attended City College and Columbia University, graduating from the latter in 1933. He received a master's degree and a doctorate from Columbia. He taught science at the Ethical Culture Schools in the 1930's and 40's, and he taught education at the University of Illinois from 1950 to 1957.
        Starting with "Mice, Men and Elephants" in 1942, he set about writing children's science books at a dizzying pace. His early works, like "Air Navigation," "Parachutes" and "Submarines," often dealt with mechanical science.
        In 1947 he became the editor of Simon & Schuster's Golden Nature Guides, and he began writing some of the books in 1949. He also wrote articles for magazines, particularly those devoted to education. He edited a children's encyclopedia, "Our Wonderful World," for Spencer in the mid-1950's.
        His first wife, Sonia Bleeker, a writer and anthropologist, died in 1971. He is survived by his wife, Grace Showe Zim; two sons, Roger Zim of California and Aldwin Zim of Texas; his brother, Milton Zim of Arizona, and two grandsons.
      