
        Friedel Dzubas, an abstract painter associated with the New York School in the 1950's and Color Field art in the 60's, died on Sunday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 79.
        He died after a long illness, said Malinda Hatch, his companion.
        Mr. Dzubas was born in Berlin in 1915. He left Germany in 1939, moving to Chicago, where he found work as an illustrator. By the late 40's, he settled in New York City and became associated with some of the leading young painters of the time. Jackson Pollock was his close friend, and he shared a studio with Helen Frankenthaler.
        He had his first solo show at the Tibor de Nagy Gallery in 1952. Several years later, the critic Stuart Preston, writing in The New York Times, admired his "airy explosions of shape and color," which could bring to mind storms and sea swirls.  By the late 50's and early 60's, his art could also be described as "a sort of delightful rococo postscript to the baroque thunder of Abstract Expressionism," as the critic Brian O'Doherty put it in The Times.
        During the mid-60's Mr. Dzubas painted hard-edged blocks of color. But he soon returned to a more expressive and improvisational manner that sought to bridge the contemporary concerns of American abstraction with his European past. He especially admired the Romantics, and his art was sometimes linked in its spirit to German Romanticism.
        Mr. Dzubas exhibited at the Castelli, Knoedler and Emmerich galleries, among other places, and had retrospectives at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington. He was included in an important Color Field survey in 1975 at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
        Mr. Dzubas's four marriages ended in divorce.
        In addition to Ms. Hatch, he is survived by a brother, Harry Dzubas of Konstanz, Germany, and three children, Hannele Dzubas Brooks and Morgan Dzubas, both of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and Adam Dzubas of Allston, Mass.
      