
        Judge Winston Eugene Arnow, who shared the national limelight when he presided over the monthlong trial of the antiwar Gainesville Eight, died on Monday at West Florida Hospital in Pensacola. He was 83.
        Judge Arnow, a resident of Pensacola, died after a long illness, his family said.
        At his death, he was a senior judge of the Federal District Court in Pensacola. He was known for his tight courtroom regimen and strict constitutional views, at times exasperating lawyers on both sides.
        He handled a number of significant civil rights and desegregation cases. Among his cases were ones involving the United States Air Force and the government, schools and jails of Escambia County, of which Pensacola is the county seat.
        But it was the conspiracy trial of the Gainesville Eight that made daily headlines from coast to coast. The defendants were seven combat veterans of the Vietnam War, most of them decorated, and one supporter of the Vietnam Veterans Against the War. All were charged with having planned an assault on the 1972 Republican National Convention in Miami Beach. The attack was not carried out.
        Paid Government informers and an undercover police officer testified about bombs, bullets, slingshots and crossbows and the plot that the defendants were said to have been hatched in Gainesville. During the trial, there was a brief imbroglio when two agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation were discovered in a broom closet, laden with telephone and electronic gear, near the courtroom. Defense lawyers contended that the agents were trying to bug their conversations, but the bureau said the agents were making sure that the agency's telephone lines were not tapped.
        At one point during pretrial hearings Judge Arnow threatened CBS News with a contempt-of-court action after drawings of the court proceedings were broadcast. He also brushed aside defense efforts to bring up the defendants' political views because, he said repeatedly, "The Government is not on trial here."
        In the end, the defense called only one witness and rested "on what the prosecution has called its case." The jurors spent little time before acquitting the eight.
        Judge Arnow was born in Micanopy, outside Gainesville. He was a business graduate of the University of Florida, where he also earned his law degree in 1933, and practiced with firms in Gainesville.
        He was a municipal judge in 1968 when President Lyndon B. Johnson named him to the District of Northern Florida. He was the court's chief judge when he assumed senior status in 1981.
        He ordered the Escambia school system desegregated in 1969. In 1978 he drew up a special district to assure that the county commission would have at least one black member.
        In 1981 he sealed a settlement in a discrimination case, requiring the Air Force to establish a $2 million fund and Eglin Air Force Base to hire 100 black workers for its civilian labor force and promote others already on the payroll.
        Judge Arnow is survived by his wife, Frances Day Arnow; a daughter, Ann Moulton of Pensacola; a brother, Dr. L. Earle, of Convent Station, N.J.; a stepsister, Marian M. Jelks of Maitland, Fla., and a grandson.
      