
        Karl Schiller, a former government minister who dominated West German economic and financial policy in the late 1960's and early 70's, died in a hospital in Hamburg on Monday. He was 83.
        The cause was vascular collapse, his doctor said.
        Mr. Schiller was a leading member of the West German Social Democratic Party, and when the party formed a grand coalition Government under the Christian Democratic Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger at the end of 1966, Mr. Schiller became Economics Minister.
        He believed that government should play a far more active role in creating conditions favorable for economic growth than his free-market predecessors, notably Ludwig Erhard, thought desirable.
        His most lasting innovation was periodic meetings of labor union leaders, industrialists and government experts in what he called "concerted action" round-tables to create a stable pattern of union contracts and steady growth.
        West German economic growth surged, and by 1969 Mr. Schiller was urging a sharp revaluation of the German mark against the French franc and the dollar, despite the fact that Chancellor Kiesinger and his conservative Bavarian Finance Minister, Franz Josef Strauss, were against it.
        The dispute figured in the campaign that led to the first postwar Social Democratic election victory, in 1969. Mr. Schiller remained Economics Minister, and the mark was substantially appreciated, but the new Government of Chancellor Willy Brandt soon increased spending far beyond levels he thought wise. He took on the additional post of Finance Minister in 1971.
        By then inflation was becoming a major problem, and Mr. Schiller's voluble urging of big cuts in government spending caused him to fall out with his party. He resigned both of his ministerial positions in July of 1972 and handed in his Social Democratic membership card two months later.
        He did not rejoin until 1980, two years before Chancellor Helmut Kohl relegated the Social Democrats to the opposition, but remained a sharp critic of some of their policies, denouncing the labor unions' embrace of the 35-hour week, for example, in the mid-1980's.
        Mr. Schiller was born in Breslau, now the Polish city of Wroclaw, but grew up in the north German port of Kiel. An economist who received a doctorate at Heidelberg University in 1935, he served with German military intelligence on the eastern front during World War II. After his discharge, he returned to academic life at the universities of Kiel and later Hamburg.
        He was married four times. He is survived by his fourth wife, Vera Sylvia, and four children.
      