
        Robert Howard Metzger, one of the contemporary interior decorators who epitomized an opulent, elegant style, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 55 and lived on the Upper West Side and in Water Mill, L.I.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said Michael Christiano, his business partner since 1976.
        Born in the Bronx, Mr. Metzger graduated from New York University in 1961 and began working as an investment analyst on Wall Street. But after traveling extensively in Europe, he returned to New York to study at the New York School of Interior design, from which he received a certificate in 1971. After working as a freelance interior designer for a few years, he established Robert H. Metzger Inc. in 1973.
        Mr. Metzger was widely known for his flamboyantly decorated and dramatically lighted rooms, with their eclectic mix of antique furnishings, extravagant flower arrangements and well-appointed table tops. In his rooms, whether dotted with Roman urns or filled with Art Deco pieces, drama was the order of the day. Mr. Metzger was invited to take part in the second Kips Bay Decorator Show House in 1974, and the room he designed put him on the map.
        His own homes were filled with his numerous collections. Shagreen, the granulated skin of sharks that has been used since the 17th century to cover boxes and furniture, was a particular passion.
        His wealthy clients, many of whom became close friends, included Carolina Herrera, the fashion designer, and her husband, Reinaldo; Clive Davis, the record executive; James Robinson 3d, the former American Express chairman, and his wife, Linda, and Blaine Trump and her husband, Robert, the real estate developer.
        The apartments and houses he designed for them in New York, Palm Beach and Monte Carlo were often seen in the pages of magazines like Architectural Digest, Town and Country and Maison et Jardin in France. In 1991, Mr. Metzger was inducted into the Interior Design Hall of Fame, and he was the recipient of many other interior design awards.
        Mr. Metzger is survived by a sister, Elinor Sherman, of Tucson, Ariz.; a brother, James, of Chester, N.Y., and three nieces and a nephew.
      