
        Herman W. Liebert, a bibliophile, author and librarian emeritus at Yale University, died on Tuesday at his home in Prospect, Conn. He was 83.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Frederick P. Liebert.
        Mr. Liebert had a lifelong passion for the work of Samuel Johnson. He collected his books and was instrumental in bringing papers of Johnson and James Boswell to Yale, where Mr. Liebert was librarian of the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library.
        He was the chairman of the Yale Editions of the Works of Samuel Johnson and frequently wrote on his favorite subject, publishing articles in various university journals. He wrote several books on Johnson and was a trustee of Dr. Johnson's House Trust in London.
        Mr. Liebert was born in New York City. After graduating from Yale College in 1933, he became a reporter, columnist and feature writer for the Paul Block Newspapers. During World War II, he worked for the Research and Analysis Branch of the Office of Strategic Services. After the war, he was appointed secretary of the drafting subcommittee for President Harry S. Truman's Committee on Foreign Aid. He organized and edited reports to the President recommending the Marshall Plan.
        After conducting private research on Johnson and his circle, he returned to Yale as a research assistant at the university library. He became the Beinecke Librarian in 1963. In a speech that year to the National Book Committee at the Pierpont Morgan Library, he defined his role by saying that rare books and manuscripts "serve the few whose influence is out of all proportion to their small number." On his retirement in 1972, he was named librarian emeritus.
        Mr. Liebert was also an appraiser of rare books, taught a seminar in the history and uses of rare books, and was a past president of the Grolier Club in New York.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Brevard, N.C., he is survived by a daughter, Lucy Bradford Liebert of Prospect, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      