
        Ronald Edwards, a flower seller who had served a jail term for his part in the $7 million Great Train Robbery in Britain in 1963, was found dead in London on Tuesday. He was in his early 60's and lived in London.
        He was found hanging by his neck in a garage, the British newspaper The Independent reported. An inquest was opened on Thursday and adjourned until Feb. 7.
        Mr. Edwards, known as Buster, was one of more than a dozen accomplices involved in the robbery. His life became the subject of a 1988 movie, "Buster."
        He told an interviewer once that selling flowers in his later years was "so boring" compared "to the life I was leading."
        He added, "Obviously you are a thief because you like money, but the second thing is the excitement of it."
        By tampering with signal lights, the robbers halted a night mail train at an isolated spot in Buckinghamshire in southern England. They clubbed the engineer and made off with bags containing $:2,600,000 in used British banknotes -- the equivalent of $7 million in those days. Most of the robbers were captured but only one-fourth of the money was recovered. Mr. Edwards said later that he had done the clubbing.
        Afterward, he took his share of the loot and made his way, with his family, to Mexico. But the money dwindled, partly through extravagance. And it is said that he, his wife, June, and their daughter, Nicky, grew homesick.
        In 1966, Mr. Edwards returned to London, surrendered and was charged at Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire with participation in the robbery. Later that year he was called a "master criminal" at his trial, convicted and sentenced to 15 years in prison.
        He was the 14th person to be convicted in the case. In 1964, 13 men received prison sentences of up to 30 years for various roles in the robbery. The prosecution was aided by the discovery of fingerprints at a farm the gang had used.
        Mr. Edwards was released from jail early, in 1975, and had a flower stall at Waterloo Station until his death.
        The Times of London reported on Wednesday that by the early 1950's he had been "accepted into a safe-cracking gang which provided him with a dependable source of income."
        "Burgling shops was another staple," it added.
        His survivors include his wife and daughter.
      