
        Max Bill, a painter, a sculptor, an architect and a former member of the Swiss Parliament who was known for his austere geometric forms and advocacy of modern design, died on Friday in Berlin after collapsing at Tegel Airport. He was 85 and lived in Zumikon, a Zurich suburb.
        He had had a heart attack and died en route to a hospital, said an airport spokeswoman.
        Mr. Bill, who was born in 1908 in Winterthur, Switzerland, was among the last surviving students of the Bauhaus. He attended the school from 1927 to 1929 after its relocation to Dessau, Germany, studying with Josef Albers, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Lazlo Moholy-Nagy and Oskar Schlemmer. He remained loyal to the Bauhaus emphasis on geometric design principles. "I am of the opinion that it is possible to develop an art largely on the basis of mathematical thinking," he wrote.
        The hard-edged, sometimes impersonal art he developed ranged through different media, just as his thinking touched on many aspects of modern living. He made spare geometric paintings and spherical sculptures, some based on the Moebius strip, in stone, wood, metal and plaster. His designs included a clock, furniture, a bridge, a prefabricated house, a movie theater and many buildings in Germany and Switzerland, most notably the Hochschule fur Gestaltung in Ulm, Germany, where he served as head of the departments of architecture and product design from 1951 to 1956.
        In addition to his teaching, Mr. Bill wrote and lectured extensively on art, architecture and design, appearing at symposiums and design conferences around the world. From 1967 to 1971, he served as a member of the Swiss Parliament.
        Mr. Bill executed many public sculptures in Europe and exhibited extensively in galleries and museums, including a retrospective at the Kunsthaus Zurich in 1968-69. He had his first exhibition in the United States at the Staempfli Gallery in New York City in 1963 and was the subject of retrospectives at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo in 1974 and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City in 1988. In 1993, he received the Imperial Prize for sculpture, awarded by the Emperor of Japan.
        He is survived by his wife, Angela Thomas Bill; a son, Jakob, of Lucerne, Switzerland, and three grandchildren.
      