
        William Tapley Bennett Jr., a career diplomat who served as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic during that country's 1965 civil war, and who recommended that President Johnson intervene with United States troops, died on Tuesday in Washington after a long illness. He was 77.
        Mr. Bennett's two-year assignment as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, in 1964 and 1965, was the stormiest during a career with the Foreign Service that spanned more than 40 years. In May 1965, when rebel forces in Santo Domingo tried to overthrow the Government of David Reid Cabral, Mr. Bennett advised President Johnson and members of Congress that the revolt was led by Communists.
        Before order was restored, 21,800 American troops were deployed in the Dominican Republic. Mr. Bennett was later criticized by Senator J. W. Fulbright for overreacting in the crisis and giving President Johnson "faulty advice" that he said reflected a tendency of the United States to suspect Communist domination of any attempt to force social change in Latin America.
        Born April 1, 1917, in Griffin, Ga., Mr. Bennett joined the Foreign Service in 1941 after receiving his law degree from George Washington University. He served as an Army intelligence officer during World War II, and held posts in United States embassies in Vienna, Rome and Athens before being appointed Ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
        He was also Ambassador to Portugal from 1966 through 1969. Later in his career, after serving as State Department adviser to the Air War College and Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations, he was appointed Permanent Representative to NATO. He remained in that job, under Presidents Carter and Reagan, from 1977 to 1983.
        Since his retirement from the Foreign Service in 1985, Mr. Bennett had been an adjunct professor of international law at the University of Georgia.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret R. White, of Washington; five children, William T. Bennett 3d of Washington, Cmdr. John C. W. Bennett of Charleston, S. C., Anne B. Bennett of Lexington, Mass., Ellen B. Godsall of London and Victoria R. Bennett of Seattle; and three grandchildren.
      