
        John Charles Walker, an agricultural scientist whose pioneering research in disease resistance in plants had a strong impact on world agriculture, died on Friday in Boswell Memorial Hospital in Sun City, Ariz. Dr. Walker was 101 and lived in Sun City.
        The cause was pneumonia, said David Dixon, a nephew.
        Dr. Walker, professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, was the first scientist to demonstrate the chemical nature of disease resistance in plants.
        In 1978, when he received a $50,000 Wolf Foundation Prize in Agriculture, he was cited for making "significant and lasting contributions to the advance of world agriculture." The prize committee wrote that "he may be judged among history's greatest three or four plant pathologists."
        Paul Williams, a professor of plant pathology at Wisconsin and a close friend of Professor Walker, said: "Walker was miles ahead of other scientists at the time of his earliest discoveries. Modified versions of some of the disease-resistant vegetables he developed are still on the market today."
        Professor Williams said that in addition to his research, Professor Walker tutored 75 graduate students before his retirement in 1964 and that about half of them went on to prominent careers in agriculture, applying his methods around the world.
        Professor Walker, who was born in Racine, Wis., earned his bachelor of science and master's degrees and doctorate from Wisconsin. He joined its faculty in 1919, when he first explored genetic resistance to plant disease while working with cabbages, a major crop in the state.
        Dr. Walker, who also studied environmental factors that caused disease, went on to develop disease-resistant varieties of onions, cabbages, beans, peas, beets and cucumbers.
        In the 1940's, he was credited with saving the cucumber industry in Wisconsin by discovering the source of resistance to the spot rot that killed the plants in early spring. In the same decade, he restored the state's canning beet industry by developing an inexpensive treatment to cure the boron deficiency he had identified in the crop.
        His textbook "Plant Pathology" was used around the world.
        He was a life member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a recipient of the Merit Award of the Botanical Society of America.
        Professor Walker's first wife, Edna Dixon Walker, died in 1966; his second wife, Marian Dixon Walker, the sister of his first wife, died in 1982.
      