
        Antoine Pinay, a French statesman who played a major role in restoring health to France's economy after the ravages of World War II, died yesterday at his home in St.-Chamond in central France. He was 102.
        News reports quoted local officials as saying he had been weakened by an attack of flu last month and died in his sleep.
        Mr. Pinay served in a number of Government posts. He was, at various times, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Finance Minister. A former industrialist and moderate conservative, he believed that affairs of state should be run much like any business, with fiscal good sense. He imposed budget limits, refused to raise taxes and adhered to a tight monetary policy.
        He was known as the father of the "new franc," which he created as Finance Minister in 1960 by lopping two zeros off the inflated franc to restore confidence in the currency.
        The currency reform was a success, though to this day many people prefer to count in "old francs."
        He remained a popular figure after policy differences with de Gaulle caused him to leave the national Government in 1960. Politicians continued to make the pilgrimage to St.-Chamond to seek his advice even this year, though he said he was bored by such visits.
        The son of a milliner, Antoine Pinay was born on Dec. 30, 1891, in the central town of St.-Symphorien-sur-Coise. Wounds suffered in World War I almost cost him his right arm, and he received France's highest military award for courage. After the war, he went into the leather business and married the daughter of a tannery owner in St.-Chamond, near Lyons in southeast-central France.
        He was elected Mayor of the town in 1932 and in the late 1930's entered the national legislature in Paris. He lost office after World War II because he had voted with other French lawmakers during the German occupation to grant extraordinary powers to Marshal Henri-Philippe Petain and his Vichy Government.
        The ostracism blew over when it became known that he had hidden German Jews from the Gestapo. He returned to the Legislature in 1946 and was appointed in 1950 to his first high-level Cabinet post, Minister of Public Works, Transportation and Tourism. He continued to serve as Mayor of St.-Chamond until 1977.
        Mr. Pinay's survivors include two daughters. His wife, Marguerite Fouletier Pinay, died in 1970.
      