
        Stuart Levin, who ran elegant Manhattan restaurants, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia complicated by advanced multiple sclerosis, his family said.
        Mr. Levin, who learned the trade from the ground up, was an owner or manager of shrines of haute cuisine like the Four Seasons and Le Pavillon. He acted as a consultant for the city's Department of Public Events. He also advised on the preparation of formal dinners for royalty and catered private affairs.
        He was put in charge of a languishing Le Pavillon on East 57th Street in 1968, then past its peak as the finest French restaurant in the country. It had been sold the year before by its founder, Henri Soule, to a group of investors who were losing money.
        As its president and part owner, he restored some of its past glory. But Le Pavillon was reported to be losing money again by 1972, when Mr. Levin closed it. Once the quintessence of sophistication, it reopened its doors only to put everything on the premises up for auction.
        "Truly," Mr. Levin said at the time, "the era of the grand luxe restaurant in New York is over."
        But he went on to run Top of the Park atop the Gulf and Western Building, until retiring in 1982.
        Mr. Levin had been a supporter of Phoenix House, a drug treatment organization, from its early days in the 1970's. In retirement, despite his illness, he became a volunteer teacher and adviser offering training in the culinary arts to hundreds of young people being treated for drug addiction. Many of them went into restaurant careers.
        For that service, President George Bush honored him with a Point of Light award in 1991.
        He was born in Brooklyn, and attended the University of Wyoming and Syracuse University. He started in the restaurant business as a teen-ager, working at Gilmore's Steak House, owned by his parents, Louis Levin and Lynne Gilmore.
        When restaurants ranging from Nathan's to "21" joined in 1974 to form the Hospitality Industry Foundation to polish the city's image, he was named its president. He also was a past president of the city chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association.
        Mr. Levin is survived by adaughter, Meryl Hillsberg of Upper Montclair, N.J.; a son, Kenneth, of Los Angeles; a sister, Adrienne Hara of Forest Hills, Queens, and three grandchildren.
      