
        Rabbi Jacob S. Kassin, Chief Rabbi of the Syrian Sephardic community in Brooklyn for more than six decades, died on Tuesday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 94 and a resident of Brooklyn.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        Rabbi Kassin was the spiritual leader of a community that claims as many as 100,000 people, many of them clustered in Flatbush. They include families who emigrated from the Middle East over the last half century, particularly from Syria.
        An influential figure among Brooklyn Jews of Syrian ancestry, he avoided the limelight. Yet he was known as an authority on the cabala and for his efforts to promote education and the building of community institutions for his constituents. He was among the prominent rabbis who reinstated the edict that Syrian Jews may not marry Jews who converted from other religions or non-Jews.
        A funeral service was held on Wednesday night. The hearse carrying his remains wended its way through Flatbush, stopping at Shaare Zion, his synagogue on Ocean Parkway; the Sephardic Community Center and yeshivas with which he was associated. About 4,000 worshipers and schoolchildren paid their last respects by singing hymns. His body was flown to Jerusalem, where the burial was yesterday.
        Rabbi Kassin was born in Jerusalem, the descendant of a long line of rabbis and judges whose ancestors immigrated to Syria during the Spanish Inquisition centuries ago. Orphaned at 16 in a cholera epidemic, he was educated and ordained at a yeshiva, Porat Yosef, near the Western Wall.
        Called to New York to lead the Sephardic faithful in 1932, he had served as their Chief Rabbi since then. During those years, the Sephardic community in Brooklyn increased about tenfold to more than 20 congregations.
        He himself officiated at about 3,000 marriages and founded many schools. He led Shaare Zion until two years ago, when his son, Rabbi Saul Kassin, succeeded him as its leader.
        He wrote numerous volumes on Talmudic issues and served as a Talmudic court justice.
        Rabbi Kassin's wife of 59 years, Mazal Hedaya Kassin, died in 1980.
        Besides his son Saul, he is survived by two daughters, Charlotte Ben Hayim and Esther Hanano, both of Brooklyn; five other sons, Albert, Isaac, Meyer, Leon and Morris, all of Brooklyn, and many grandchildren, great- and great-great-grandchildren.
      