
        William D. Fleming, former president of what was once one of the largest brokerage firms in the United States, died last Wednesday at the Mesa Verde Convalescent Center in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Richard, of Wilton, Conn.
        Mr. Fleming was president of Walston & Company, one of the five largest brokerage firms in the United States until it merged with duPont Glore Forgan in 1973. He served as vice chairman of duPont Walton under Ross Perot, who was chairman, until the firm was liquidated in 1974.
        Mr. Fleming was born in San Mateo, Calif., and began his career in the investment business as a clerk in 1925 at Blyth & Company in San Francisco.
        He joined Doak Aircraft in 1941 as an assistant manager in Torrance, Calif., where he worked during World War II. In 1945 he joined Walston, Hoffman & Goodman as manager of its Los Angeles office. He was promoted to manager of the firm's Southern California operations in 1950, then moved to New York to manage Walston's East Coast operations.
        In 1957, Mr. Fleming was appointed senior vice president and moved to Chicago to create the firm's Midwest division. Within seven years the division had expanded to 15 offices.
        When Vernon C. Walston, the firm's founder, died in 1964, Mr. Fleming was elected president. The firm became one of the nation's largest under Mr. Fleming, with more than 100 offices in the United States and Europe.
        Mr. Perot's Electronic Data Systems Corporation was hired in 1971 to automate the department that handled all of Walston's paperwork. This relationship led to the merger of Walston and duPont Glore Fogan, in which Mr. Perot had a controlling interest.
        When the combined firm closed in 1974, Mr. Fleming retired to Corona del Mar, Calif.
        Besides his son Richard, Mr. Fleming is survived by his wife, Barbara; another son, Gerald, of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      