
        Philip S. Foner, an eminent Marxist labor historian who won an apology from City College 40 years after a hunt for Communists cost him his position there, died on Tuesday at Hahnemann Hospital in Philadelphia after a long illness. He was 84.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Laura.
        Dr. Foner, professor emeritus of history at Lincoln University at Lincoln University, Pa., was the author of more than 110 published works, among them "Organized Labor and the Black Worker," published in two editions in 1974 and 1982; the two-volume "Women in the American Labor Movement," published in 1979 and 1980 and "American Labor Songs of the Nineteenth Century," published in 1975. For this book, Dr. Foner was awarded the Deems Taylor Award, presented by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, known as Ascap.
        Dr. Foner was also the author of "Life and Writings of Thomas Paine" (1946), five volumes of "Life and Writings of Frederick Douglass" (1949-1952) and the two-volume "History of Cuba and Its Relations With the United States" (1962-1963).
        Dr. Foner, a son of Russian immigrant parents, was born on Manhattan's Lower East Side and grew up in Brooklyn, where he graduated from Eastern District High School.
        He received his bachelor's and master's degrees from City College and his doctorate from Columbia University, where he and his brother were pupils of the historian Allan Nevins. Dr. Foner began his career at City College in 1932.
        In 1941, Dr. Foner was among 50 faculty members at New York's city colleges who lost their jobs as a result of an investigation of Communist activity at the colleges, an investigation carried out by a state legislative body, the Rapp-Coudert Committee.
        Although no one was charged with misuse of their position, the teachers were suspended and then called before a committee of the Board of Higher Education. The committee voted 2-1 for Dr. Foner's dismissal.
        As a result of the actions of the committee, Dr. Foner's three brothers were also dismissed: Jack, also a member of the history department at City College; Moe, who worked in the college registrar's office, and Henry, a substitute teacher in the city's high schools.
        In 1981, the Board of Trustees of the City University of New York adopted a resolution apologizing to those who had been dismissed for the actions of the earlier board as a violation of academic freedom and promising that there would be no recurrence.
        After his dismissal from City College, Dr. Foner entered publishing, becoming a principal and chief editor of Citadel Press.
        In 1967, he joined the faculty of Lincoln University, where he taught until he retired in 1979. Afterward, he continued to write and lecture until he became ill four years ago.
        Earlier this year, the New York Labor History Association honored him with an award for lifetime achievement in labor history.
        Dr. Foner's first wife, Roslyn Held Foner, a book designer, died in 1983. His second marriage, to Rhoda Lichtash, ended in divorce. He is survived by two daughters, Dr. Elizabeth Vandepaer of Manhattan and Laura Foner of Jamaica Plain, Mass.; his three brothers, Jack, of Manhattan, Moe, of Queens and Henry, of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      