
        Connie Kay, a drummer best known for his work with the Modern Jazz Quartet, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his manager, Evelyn Levine.
        Mr. Kay, whose name was originally Conrad Kirnon, brought an extremely broad variety of experience to his drum work for the Modern Jazz Quartet. When he played, he used all sorts of sounds, tapping on the sides of his drums; using small cymbals, triangles and tympani, and muffling cymbals and regularly shifting his rhythmic emphasis, from shuffles to flat-out swing.
        A performance by Mr. Kay was mosaiclike, a compilation of sounds, ideas and rhythmic figures. He was a master of coloration, and everything he did swung with real intensity. He did it all without ever raising his musical voice.
        Mr. Kay gained his experience early in life. By the time he was a teen-ager, he was performing at Ann's Red Rose, a club in the Bronx, where he grew up. He played for comedians, singers, tap-dancers and chorus girls, devising different accompaniments for each act. By the 1940's, he was playing rhythm-and-blues, along with jazz; at the time, the stylistic differences were much less clear than they later became. As he reached his maturity as a drummer, he was leaving his mark on two major musical movements of the 1940's and 50's: be-bop and what eventually became rock-and-roll.
        He became the house drummer at Minton's Playhouse in Harlem, an incubator of be-bop, and was associated with virtually every important figure of that movement, from Thelonious Monk, Dizzy Gillespie and Charlie Parker to Bud Powell, Sonny Rollins and Miles Davis. He regularly worked with swing era musicians, as well, recording and performing with Cat Anderson and Lester Young, among others.
        As a house drummer at Atlantic Records, he was a factor in the success of some of the seminal rock-and-roll records of the time, recording with Ruth Brown, Ray Charles, Joe Turner and the Clovers.
        Mr. Kay joined the Modern Jazz Quartet in 1955, and it was in that group that all his knowledge could be displayed. He brought with him an astonishing arsenal of ideas, adapting his fierce sense of swing to the quartet's compressed, pristine sound. And his sonically sophisticated approach to the drums was perfect for the group's more static, chamber-musiclike approach, adding crystalline, metallic textures.
        He also kept up a busy freelance career, recording with the jazz musicians Lucky Thompson, Cannonball Adderley, Jimmy Heath, Paul Desmond, Tommy Flanagan and Chet Baker in the 1950's and 60's. And he kept up a career in rock, recording with Van Morrison and many other musicians.
        In 1992, Mr. Kay had a stroke that temporarily affected his ability to perform, but a few months ago, he was again touring with the quartet, playing at the peak of his abilities.
        He is survived by two sons, Conrad Jr. and Noel.
      