
        Enrique Lister, one of the most highly regarded Loyalist combat officers in the Spanish Civil War and an unrepentant Communist to the end, died on Thursday in a hospital in Madrid. He was 87.
        He was in a coma and had been treated for a brain hemorrhage in November.
        General Lister -- he was promoted to that rank in 1938 -- participated in almost all the major battles against the nationalist forces of Francisco Franco in the civil war, in which 500,000 died between 1936 and 1939. He described his side of the struggle this way: "We were waging an anti-Fascist war and a revolution at the same time: The peasants had their land, the workers ran the factories and the people had weapons."
        He led the Fifth Regiment, which he had organized as a militia, in the defense of Madrid in 1936, then commanded the 11th Division at Guadalajara in one of the few Loyalist victories over the better armed insurgents.
        But it was the losing struggle in 1937 over Gandesa, in northeastern Spain, that immortalized his fight in a civil war song, "The Battle of Gandesa." It tells of eight days of hand-to-hand combat on a barren razor-backed ridge called Hill 666, where General Lister's troops and the American volunteer unit called the Abraham Lincoln Brigade faced overwhelming odds. The remnants of the Loyalist forces had to retreat under fire across the Ebro River. The song is punctuated with drum rolls imitating the heavy machine guns of Franco's troops.
        Described by contemporaries as burly and bluff, General Lister was a formidable combat officer, twice capturing garrison commanders in their beds by attacking at night.
        By the end of the civil war, in which Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy provided substantial assistance to Franco and the Soviet Union gave feebler assistance to the Loyalists, General Lister was second in command of the Eastern Army. In one of his final messages to his officers, General Lister said, "If anyone loses an inch of ground, he must retake it at the head of his men or be executed."
        In the end he made his way with a handful of other Loyalists to exile in Moscow. He resurfaced in 1942 in the Battle of Stalingrad where, as a Soviet citizen, he commanded a Red Army division in the great rout of the German Wehrmacht.
        He had one more cat's life as a military man in the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, when he served for six months as an adviser on rocket artillery to Fidel Castro's forces.
        For much of the cold war he lived in Europe, for a time in Paris, later in Prague. He remained loyal to Stalin as "a great revolutionary," although he later deplored Stalin's "crimes." But otherwise he retained an independence of mind. He was critical of Khrushchev and of Brezhnev, but praised Mikhail S. Gorbachev as "a realist."
        After 38 years abroad, Enrique Lister returned to Spain in 1977. There he struggled against the leader of the Spanish Communist Party, Santiago Carrillo, who he denounced as a "Eurocommunist." General Lister formed a breakaway faction, which reconciled with the mainstream party only in 1986.
        Enrique Lister Forjan was born April 21, 1907, to a peasant family in Amaneiro, near La Coruna, in Galicia. His father's name was Liste, but a registrar added an "r" and the name Lister stuck. When he was 11 his father took him to Cuba, where he worked in a quarry.
        In 1927 he became active in the labor movement, and he stayed active after he returned to Spain. There he was jailed until 1933, when he made his way to Moscow and worked on the subway system. He also trained at a Soviet Army academy.
        General Lister is survived by his wife and a son.
      