
        Lord Joseph, a former Cabinet Minister and one of the main ideological architects of the Conservative Party's free-market philosophy under Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died today. He was 76.
        His office said the cause of death was chest complications from a stroke suffered last year.
        Keith Joseph was a Conservative member of Parliament from 1956 until 1987. During that period, he served in a succession of Cabinet posts when the Conservatives were in power, starting with Minister for Housing and Local Government from 1959 to 1961 and ending with Education and Science Secretary for five years until 1986.
        He was combative and sometimes unpredictable and made many political enemies over the years. But Mrs. Thatcher considered him one of her chief mentors and most important aides. She entrusted to him a central goal of her administration when she became Prime Minister in 1979, transforming British industry by privatizing state-owned companies and diminishing the power of unions.
        He served as Secretary of State for Industry for two years, until 1981, and played a central role in breaking a strike at British Steel. He also helped begin a process that led over the following decade to the sale of British Airways, British Telecommunications and many other large state-owned companies by the Government.
        As Education Secretary he clashed bitterly with the teachers' unions in an effort to hold down pay increases.
        In a statement, Lady Thatcher said: "Today I have lost one of my dearest friends, England one of her greatest men."
        She praised Lord Joseph as one who "spoke out boldly, however hostile the audience," but who was a man of integrity who "hated to give offence."
        When he resigned as Education Secretary in 1986 and said he would not seek re-election to the House of Commons, she wrote to him: "You more than anyone else were the architect who, starting from first principles and involving many people, shaped the policies which led to victory in two general elections."
        Dennis Healey, a former Chancellor of the Exchequer in the last Labor Party Government in the mid-1970's, said that Lord Joseph's political ideas were "bizarre and damaging" but that he was a "very nice man."
        Keith Sinjohn Joseph was born in London on Jan. 17, 1918, the only child of Sir Samuel Joseph, a wealthy builder, and Edna Cicely Joseph. He graduated from the Harrow School and Magdalen College at Oxford University. In World War II he became a captain in the Royal Artillery.
        After being elected to Parliament from a constituency in Leeds, he rose rapidly through the ranks, and considered competing for the party leadership in 1974 but decided against it.
        He is survived by four children from his first marriage, and by his second wife, the former Yolanda Sherrif, whom he married in 1990.
      