
        Vera Maxwell, one of a legendary group of American sportswear designers who came to prominence in the 1940's, died on Sunday in Rincon, P.R., at the home of her grandson, Douglas Maxwell.
        She was 93 and died after a brief illness, said her daughter-in-law, Rhea Maxwell.
        One of the pioneers of women's sportswear along with Claire McCardell, Clare Potter, Carolyn Schnurer and Tina Leser, Vera Maxwell continued to design clothes that were casual, comfortable and classic until her retirement in 1985.
        Among her innovations was the "weekend wardrobe" of 1935 that consisted of two jackets, two skirts and a pair of trousers; the wraparound jersey blouse; the riding jacket suit and the fencing suit. In the 1940's she designed a cotton coverall uniform for war workers at the Sperry Gyroscope Corporation that was a forerunner of the jump suit. She was also the first American designer to make clothes of Ultrasuede.
        She won the Coty American Fashion Critics' Award in 1953 and was honored in 1970 with a retrospective exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. In 1980 there was another retrospective, this time at the Museum of the City of New York, which opened with a party attended by Princess Grace of Monaco and her daughter Princess Caroline. Mrs. Maxwell had met the former Grace Kelly in Dallas in 1955 when they were both there to receive Neiman Marcus Awards, and she frequently visited her and Prince Rainier in Monaco.
        Born Vera Huppe in New York City on April 22, 1901, of Viennese parents, she traveled to Europe with them as a child and lived for a while in Vienna. She attended high school in Leonia, N.J., and studied ballet in New York, becoming a member of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet in 1919. She danced with the company until her marriage in 1924 to Raymond J. Maxwell, who worked on Wall Street. They were divorced in 1937. She married Carlisle H. Johnson, an architect, in 1938 and divorced him in 1945.
        While married to Mr. Maxwell, she had started to model on Seventh Avenue and developed an interest in making clothes. She studied tailoring in London and worked as a designer for several American sportswear houses including Adler and Adler, Glenhunt and Max Milstein. (In 1970, Mrs. Maxwell formed a business partnership with Mr. Milstein's nephew Morton Milstein.)
        Mrs. Maxwell became known as a designer in the 1930's when American fashion was struggling to be born and most designers toiled anonymously. She achieved fame with such designs as a weekend wardrobe of a collarless jacket with four patch pockets that she made in tweed and in gray flannel to be mixed and matched with a short pleated flannel tennis skirt, a longer tweed skirt with pressed-down pleats and a pair of flannel cuffed trousers -- all designs so classic they could still be worn today.
        Following the precepts of her idol, Coco Chanel, Mrs. Maxwell devoted herself to making timeless clothes that women could move around in. In 1975, she showed what she called a "speed suit," which was actually a pull-on dress with a stretch top and no zippers, buttons, snaps or ties. A woman could slip it on in seconds.
        After years of designing for other manufacturers, Mrs. Maxwell founded her own company, Vera Maxwell Originals, in 1947. Her heyday was in the 1950's when her easy-to-wear styles attracted customers like Pat Nixon, Martha Graham and Lillian Gish. By 1960 her clothes were being sold in 700 stores around the country. In the 60's, her star waned as fashion's attention shifted to swinging London designers like Mary Quant and Zandra Rhodes.
        In 1964, Mrs. Maxwell showed a collection of American Indian-inspired clothing that failed to find an audience. "It bombed," she said in an interview that appeared in The New York Times in 1970. "So I decided to lie fallow for a while."
        She resurfaced in 1970 with a collection that was introduced at a tea in B. Altman's. Until her retirement, she continued to turn out the tasteful classic suits, coats and dresses that her loyal customers would wear for years.
        She made a brief comeback as a consultant to a knitwear company but spent most of her time working on her memoirs. They have never been published, her daughter-in-law said, partly because "people wanted gossip about Grace Kelly, but she wouldn't write that."
        She sold her Manhattan apartment three years ago and retired to Gilgo Beach, L.I., with her son, Dr. R. John Maxwell, and daughter-in-law and spent winters in Rincon with them and her grandson. She is also survived by her granddaughter, Sarah Maxwell of Santa Fe, N.M., and a great-granddaughter, Isabel Maxwell.
      