
        Kay Brown Barrett, who bought "Gone With the Wind" for the movie producer David O. Selznick after discovering the novel as his New York representative, died yesterday at the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J., where she had lived for the last 14 years. She was 93.
        The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Laurinda Barrett.
        In 1986, on the 50th anniversary of the sale of Margaret Mitchell's novel to the movies, Mrs. Barrett recalled that when she told Mr. Selznick she thought the book was "absolutely wonderful," he replied, "A Civil War story won't go."
        But when Mr. Selznick's financial backer, John Hay (Jock) Whitney agreed to buy the rights even if Mr. Selznick was not interested in the property, Mr. Selznick changed his attitude. And, Mrs. Barrett noted, "when he did buy it, he made a wonderful, wonderful picture."
        Securing "Gone With the Wind" was far from Mrs. Barrett's sole triumph. In a long career as representative, talent scout and powerful agent with Leland Hayward, MCA and ICM, she brought other novels, like Edna Ferber's "Cimarron" and Daphne du Maurier's "Rebecca," to the attention of her employers. She also persuaded Ingrid Bergman to leave Stockholm for Hollywood; signed Laurence Olivier to his first American contract, and coaxed Alfred Hitchcock into signing with the Selznick studio.
        She represented Alec Guinness, John Gielgud, Ralph Richardson, Rex Harrison, Fredric March, Patricia Neal and Montgomery Clift. Her clients also included Lillian Hellman, Isak Dinesen and, for 40 years, Arthur Miller. Mrs. Barrett retired when she was 80.
        A daughter of Kate Ross and Henry Collins Brown, a founder of the Museum of the City of New York, Kay Brown was born in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. In 1924, she graduated from Wellesley College, where she majored in English and was active in the dramatic society.
        Her first job after graduation was as a girl Friday in the Mary Arden Theater School in Peterborough, N.H. When Joseph P. Kennedy and the school's other owners, the Guy Curriers of Boston, bought a motion-picture company, they offered her a job and put her to work reading stories to find properties. The company, called the File Booking Offices, was renamed RKO. Her first major find for the company was "Cimarron," which brought the studio an Academy Award in 1931.
        Mrs. Brown's husband, James Barrett, died in 1967.
        In addition to her daughter Laurinda, of Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Kate Barrett of Greensboro, N.C.
      