
        Jim Lee Howell, the perennial Giant who played in four championship games and coached the team to three others during a career that began in the leather-helmet era of the 1930's, died on Wednesday at his home in Lonoke, Ark.
        He was 80, and according to his wife, Susan, who would give no precise cause of death, he died of natural causes after a three-year illness that began when he broke his hip in a fall.
        "He was just sick," she said last night, "and he never came out of it."
        As a rangy, two-way end from the University of Arkansas, Howell, who was 6 feet 5 inches and had captained the Arkansas basketball team, was a stalwart on the Steve Owen Giants' teams that played in four National Football League championship games from 1937 to 1948.
        But Howell, who served three years as a Marine company commander in the Pacific in World War II and who worked five years as an Owen assistant after he retired as a player in 1948, is probably most remembered by Giant fans for his seven-year tenure as Owen's successor as head coach .
        During that span, from 1954 through 1960, Howell coached some of the team's most acclaimed players, including quarterback Charley Conerly, running back Frank Gifford, wide receiver Kyle Rote, linebacker San Huff, defensive back Jim Patton and defensive end Andy Robustelli.
        By most measures, he coached uncommonly well. He never had a losing season, and his overall record of 55-29-4, for a winning percentage of .663, is the best of any Giant coach of comparable tenure.
        His teams also played in three championship games, including a memorable victory, the 47-7 drubbing of the Chicago Bears for the 1956 title, and a memorable defeat, the 23-17 overtime loss to the Baltimore Colts for the 1958 title, still widely proclaimed as pro football's greatest game.
        By one measure, his own, Howell hardly coached at all. A man with an eye for talent and the confidence to defer to it when he spotted it, he was noted for delegating coaching responsibilities to his assistants. But then he didn't have just any assistants.
        Days before a big game, the story goes, the Giants' offensive coordinator could be found in one room hard at work with the offensive players, the defensive coordinator in another room deep in discussions with the defensive players and the head coach in a third room reading a newspaper. The offensive coordinator was Vince Lombardi and the defensive coordinator was Tom Landry.
        Or as Howell often put it in a remark recalled yesterday by the team's president, Wellington Mara, "I just blow up the footballs and keep order."
        Howell, who was an assistant coach at Arkansas in 1936 and at Manhattan College in 1940 as well as head coach at Wagner College from 1947 to 1953, found himself growing snappish under the pressures of the head-coaching position and announced his retirement a year ahead of time.
        He left after the 1960 season, spending the next 19 years as the Giants' director of player personnel and the following seven as a special scout and consultant. He retired completely in 1986.
        Howell, who had served in the Arkansas Legislature during his Giant playing days, returned to his native state and worked the family cattle farm outside Lonoke.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two brothers, Murray and Pat; a sister, Marijene Wright; three sons, Timothy, Mark and Lee; a daughter, Susan, and three grandchildren.
      