
        William M. Blair, a longtime New York Times correspondent who specialized in agricultural and environmental issues, died on Jan. 13 in Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 83.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said a son, Jeffrey.
        Known from the 1950's as Farmer Bill -- in part to distinguish him from another Bill Blair who covered international affairs for The Times -- Mr. Blair came to his subject early, working for a year after high school as a farmhand in the western United States.
        William Melville Blair was born on June 14, 1911, in Cleveland. Lacking funds to finish college after three years at Ohio State University, he decided to "try starving in New York," writing freelance articles without much success.
        The Times hired him in 1942 and for the next nine years, he headed bureaus in Philadelphia, Boston, St. Louis and Des Moines.
        Joining The Times' Washington bureau in 1951, he continued to cover agricultural issues, traveling around the country frequently.
        The Interior Department, in an unusual tribute to a nonemployee, gave Mr. Blair its highest honor, the Conservation Service Award, in 1969. Stewart L. Udall, Secretary of the Interior, in a tribute to Mr. Blair, praised him for "helping make the concept of conservation a familiar and accepted part of everyday life."
        Mr. Blair was elected president of the National Press Club in 1964.
        Mr. Blair also received political assignments, including campaign tours of Vice President Richard M. Nixon during the 1956 elections. Later, Mr. Blair was dispatched in advance of national political conventions to set up special bureaus for The Times.
        Mr. Blair retired in 1977 and moved to Palm City, Fla.
        Survivors include two sons -- Jeffrey William, of Bethesda, Md., and Jonathan Stern, of Wilmington, Del.; a daughter, Christopher Jo, of Aurora, Ill., and four grandchildren. His wife, the former Helen Stern, died in 1983.
        Correction:  January 21, 1995, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about William M. Blair, a longtime correspondent for The New York Times who died on Jan. 13, misstated the hometown of his surviving daughter Christopher Jo. She lives in Aurora, Ohio, not Aurora, Ill.
      