
        Daniel Guido, who had headed the police departments of Nassau, Westchester and Suffolk counties as well as those of Yonkers and Stamford, Conn., died on Saturday at J. T. Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, L.I. He was 63 and lived in Dix Hills, L.I.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said a son, Robert, of Huntington, L.I.
        Mr. Guido, whose career spanned 40 years, was known for his readiness to square off with legislators or officials intent on cutting his budget or reducing his authority. In 1992, he stepped down from his last command post, as Police Commissioner of Suffolk County, after elected officials cut his budget and staff.
        He had been hired in 1988 to lead the troubled department after a three-year state investigation led to charges that it had engaged in illegal wiretaps and coerced witnesses. When Mr. Guido was appointed, Patrick G. Halpin, the Suffolk County Executive, described him as a "tough, no-nonsense, nonpolitical police professional."
        At the time of his death, he was on leave as a professor of police science from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
        Born in the Bronx, Mr. Guido left a job at an aviation plant in 1954 to become a police officer in Nassau County. By 1976, he had earned undergraduate and law degrees from Hofstra University and had become the youngest person to be named the county's police commissioner. In 1978, he became the Police Chief in Yonkers.
        When Westchester County was struggling with the merger of its Sheriff Department and Parkway Police in 1982, Mr. Guido was appointed Commissioner of Public Safety with orders to streamline operations and bring an end to the warring between political factions.
        He encouraged police officers to take more initiative on their community assignments and to act as neighborhood problem-solvers. He resigned in 1984 after the Police Advisory Board was given the power to overrule his disciplinary measures against police officers.
        He was Police Chief of Stamford for eight months before being appointed to the job in Suffolk County.
        Besides his son Robert, he is survived by his wife of 44 years, Jeanne; four other sons, Michael, of East Northport, Philip, of Dix Hills, Daniel, of Williston Park, and Vincent, of East Meadow, all on Long Island; a daughter, Lucy, of Centerport, L.I.; his mother, Lucia, of Port Washington; two sisters, Damarida Frasca of Port Washington and Teresa Geithman of Newport News, Va., and 11 grandchildren.
      