
        Dr. A. Earl Walker, former chairman of neurosurgery at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions in Baltimore, died on Sunday while traveling near Tucson, Ariz. He was 87 and lived in Albuquerque, N.M.
        He apparently suffered a heart attack, a spokesman for Johns Hopkins said.
        Just as Dr. Walker's research helped to advance knowledge about the human brain, his teaching shaped a generation of young neurosurgeons. Dr. Walker retired in 1972 as professor of neurological surgery, and moved to Albuquerque as a professor at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine.
        He had more than 400 research papers and eight books to his credit. A 1938 study, "The Primate Thalamus," explained the function of the brain. Among his other important publications were a study of the effects of penicillin on the central nervous system in 1946 and a history of neurological surgery in 1951, written in collaboration with colleagues and students.
        Arthur Earl Walker was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and graduated from the University of Alberta, where he also received his medical degree. He completed his training at the University of Chicago and, early in his career, joined a new generation of neurosurgeons who strove to integrate research in various neurosciences and to apply experimental findings to patient care.
        A World War II stint as chief of neurology at Cushing General Hospital in Framingham, Mass., whetted his interest in post-traumatic epilepsy, about which he published extensively. Shortly before and after the war, he taught at the University of Chicago.
        In 1947 he was appointed professor of neurological surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital. In his 25-year tenure there he established a division of neurosurgery and began courses in various specializations in that field, as well as a formal resident training program. He also founded the university's Electrophysiology Laboratories, which now bear his name.
        Dr. Walker was a past president of the American Association of Neurosurgeons and the World Federation of Neurological Societies. Last year he became a professor emeritus at the University of New Mexico and stopped teaching full time.
        He is survived by his wife, Agnes Marshall Walker; two daughters, Carol W. Jones of Naples, Tex., and Kristina Walker of Palm City, Fla.; a son, Earl, of Saugatuck, Mich.; a brother, Gordon, of Calgary, Alberta; two sisters, Mabel Catlow of Lake San Marcos, Calif., and Ora Hollingsworth of Victoria, British Columbia, and two grandchildren.
      