
        Adolf Butenandt, a German scientist whose pioneering work on sex hormones earned him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1939, died today in Munich at the age of 91. His death came after a long illness, The Associated Press reported.
        His work in isolating and synthesizing several hormones opened the way to a profound understanding of their role in human sexuality and reproduction and made possible the development of birth control pills.
        The Nazi Government compelled Dr. Butenandt to decline the Nobel Prize, which he shared with Leopold Ruzicka, a native of Croatia who worked in Zurich. Dr. Butenandt was not able to accept the gold medal and diploma until 1949.
        The Nazis blocked six Germans from accepting Nobel awards after the Nobel Peace Prize for 1935 was awarded to Carl von Ossietzky, a leading German journalist and pacifist, who had been sent to a Nazi concentration camp.
        Mr. Butenandt studied chemistry, biology and physics, first at the University of Marburg and later at Gottingen. There he worked under Adolf Windaus, receiving his doctorate in 1927. Dr. Windaus won the chemistry Nobel in 1928.
        A year later Dr. Butenandt succeeded in isolating estrone, the hormone that determines sexual development in females, in a pure crystalline form, working with the urine of pregnant women. His discovery occurred almost simultaneously with that of an American, Edward Doisy. At the time, not much was known about sex hormones. In pure form the only hormones then known were adrenaline, thyroxin and insulin.
        Two years later, working with another chemist, Dr. Butenandt isolated androsterone, a male hormone, by obtaining 15 milligrams of crystalline substance from 3,960 gallons of male urine.
        Further research after chemical purification established not only that the male hormone was very similar in structure to the female hormone, but also that both were closely related to steroids. Dr. Ruzicka then demonstrated that cholesterol could be transformed into the male hormone androsterone.
        On the basis of this work, Dr. Butenandt and Dr. Ruzicka were able to synthesize testosterone, the hormone that stimulates the development of masculine characteristics. Dr. Butenandt isolated a second female hormone, progesterone, using extracts from the ovaries of sows.
        Later Dr. Butenandt conducted research on viruses, cancer and insecticides. His work on insects led to his discovery, together with Erich Hecker, of the first crystallized pheromone, an attractant, in bombykol, the sexual substance of the silk worm.
        His discoveries about the structure of sex hormones led to the synthesis of steroids like cortisone, and paved the way for the development of birth control pills.
        Mr. Butenandt felt the impact of the Nazis on his career well before the Nobel Prize award. He was compelled to reject an offer to teach at Harvard in 1935, although he was allowed to accept a three-month fellowship from the Rockefeller Foundation in that year.
        But he was given prestigious positions in the German scientific establishment after his professorship at the University of Danzig. He directed the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Biochemistry in Berlin from 1936 to 1945, and its postwar successor, the Max Planck Institute for Biochemistry -- initially in Tubingen, later in Munich -- from 1945 to 1960. He was then named president of the Max Planck Society, supervising the postwar rebuilding of German science until 1972.
        Adolf Friedrich Johann Butenandt was born March 24, 1903, in Bremerhaven-Lehe.
        He was married to Erika von Ziegner in 1931. They had two sons and five daughters.
      