
        George P. Baker, dean of the Harvard Business School in the 1960's and a leading authority on transportation, air defense and the organization of business and government, died on Wednesday in the Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center in Phoenix. He was 91.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, the business school said.
        Mr. Baker served on Federal agencies and on the Harvard faculty for more than three decades, retiring as dean of the business school in 1969.
        He led the school's drive to raise money for 22 endowed professorships, or almost twice as many as had been established in the 50 previous years. Throughout his career at Harvard, he held many governmental and corporate positions.
        After World War II, he served as director of the Office of Transport and Communications Policy at the State Department, leading a delegation to a conference that completed the first bilateral agreement on international air rights.
        In 1948 he was named vice chairman of President Harry S. Truman's Air Policy Commission, which planned the nation's strategy for a larger and more strategic air defense and a concept of mutual deterrence in the cold war.
        Fulfilling a commitment made by President John F. Kennedy, Mr. Baker helped organize a group of Harvard Business School faculty members in 1964 to assist Central American countries in integrating their economies.
        In 1969 he was a member of an advisory council appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to recommend changes in the organizational structure of the executive branch to make it "a more effective instrument of public policy."
        Mr. Baker, who was trained at Harvard as an economist, was attracted to the transportation field as a boy when he developed a lifelong fascination with railroads.
        He was an instructor in economics at Harvard College from 1928 to 1936, when he moved to the faculty of the business school. He earned a doctorate in economics at Harvard in 1934.
        He left the business school in 1940 to serve on the Civil Aeronautics Board, becoming vice chairman in 1942.
        After World War II, in which he served in the Army, he specialized in transportation issues at the business school. When the Korean War began, he directed the center that coordinated the school's military research programs.
        In 1963 he ended the business school's policy of admitting only men.
        In addition to being a leading consultant to major airlines, railroads and government, he served as a director of numerous major corporations, including the Mobil Oil and Lockheed Aircraft Corporations. After his retirement from the business school, he was a bankruptcy trustee for the Penn Central Railroad.
        From 1954 to 1968 he was president or chairman of the Transportation Association of America. He was also president of the Transportation Research Foundation. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations
        Mr. Baker moved to Phoenix in 1978, where his first wife, Ruth, died in 1981.
        He is survived by his second wife, Mary; a son, George Jr., of Boston; two daughters, Sarah Uhle of Salt Lake City and Ruth Ursul of Brookline, Mass.; eight grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      