
        John C. White, a Texas sharecropper's son who became Democratic national chairman under President Jimmy Carter, died here today at Georgetown University Hospital, where he had been under treatment for a heart ailment. He was 70 and lived in Washington.
        Mr. White had a successful career in state politics before he was drawn to Washington, and along the way he won the friendship of powerful older Texas Democrats such as Senator Lyndon B. Johnson and Representative Sam Rayburn, the longtime Speaker of the House.
        Within the fractious state party, he gained a reputation as a conciliator. "He always took a position on one side or the other, but without indulging in mean-spirited things or personal attacks," Robert S. Strauss, another Texan who became a national leader of the party, said today. "He literally had no enemies."
        Mr. Strauss, who had earlier served as party chairman, endorsed Mr. White for the post in 1977. Mr. White was chosen by President Carter late that year and was elected by the national committee in January 1978.
        The next year he found himself in the middle of a fight over movements in six states to replace Mr. Carter as the party's 1980 Presidential nominee with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. Mr. White denounced those efforts as a recipe for discord that would "hand the Presidency on a silver platter to the Republicans." In the end, after Paul G. Kirk, the Kennedy campaign chairman, had failed to oust Mr. White from the party chairmanship, Senator Kennedy withdrew from the race.
        But Mr. Carter lost the subsequent general election to Ronald Reagan.  Of his own future, Mr. White said afterward that the chairmanship was not much but was "the only bone in the yard." A few weeks later, however, he announced his resignation. He remained in Washington as a lobbyist.
        John Coyle White was born on Nov. 26, 1924, on his family's tenant farm near the North Texas town of Newport, in Clay County, and chopped cotton as a boy in the Depression. His father was able to buy the land in 1937 with one of the first loans issued by Franklin D. Roosevelt's Farm Security Administration, and it stayed in the family thereafter.
        Mr. White attended rural schools, earned an undergraduate degree at Texas Tech University in 1946, then worked as a farm manager and taught agricultural courses at Midwestern University in Wichita Falls.
        At age 24, he ran for an influential state post, Commissioner of Agriculture, and defeated five candidates, including the incumbent. He was re-elected 13 times.
        He served Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson as an adviser on international agricultural issues and in 1977 was appointed Deputy Secretary of Agriculture by President Carter, a post he held for nine months before the President asked him to become party chairman.
        Tall, with a shock of hair the light brown color of his North Texas home country, Mr. White kept a patchwork quilt on a settee in his Washington home. "My mother made the quilt," he once said. "We had nothing new. Every year we moved to a different shack with no electricity or plumbing. All you had was your wagon and your team." And the quilt.
        Mr. White is survived by his wife, the former Wynelle Watson; two sons, John R. White and Edward P. White, both of Austin, Tex., and two grandchildren. A third son, Jake, from a previous marriage, has died.
      