
        Clifton W. Phalen, who set out in 1928 as a telephone lineman and student engineer in Syracuse and retired 38 years later as chairman of the New York Telephone Company, died on Friday at his home on Shelter Island, L.I. He was 88.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Phalen, who earned a reputation in the Bell System for leadership, put it to work in public service and for civic and social causes as well. Those benefiting from his voluntarism included the State University of New York, the Community Service Society of New York and the Greater New York Fund.
        Clifton Walter Phalen was born in Washington, the son of a geologist. While he was attending Yale University, he spent the summer before his senior year as a student engineer at New York Telephone. He returned after graduation to start his career.
        He became a plant superintendent in Albany in 1939 and, after his election as a vice president, held significant positions in personnel and public relations at New York Telephone and what was then the parent American Telephone & Telegraph Company.
        For a time, he was president of Michigan Bell Telephone Company, after which he returned to A.T.& T. headquarters as executive vice president and director. He was elected president of New York Telephone in 1959, and chairman and chief executive in 1965.
        He retired toward the end of 1966, but remained as chairman of the executive committee for another year. He also assumed similar responsibilities at Marine Midland Bank for a few years.
        While at New York Telephone in 1965, he and Mayor Robert F. Wagner inaugurated a citywide emergency number to speed the response time for police and ambulance calls. The number, 440-1234, was a forerunner of 911.
        The State University of New York was growing in the 1960's under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. Mr. Phalen had been a trustee since 1961, and, in 1965, the Governor named him to the unsalaried post of chairman of the system's board.
        Mr. Rockefeller set up a State University Construction Fund to handle the physical growth, and Mr. Phalen became chairman of that, too. He retired as board chairman in 1968 but stayed on as a trustee.
        He was a past trustee and president of the Community Service Society of New York and a fund-raiser for the Greater New York Fund. He also served as a leader on Mayor Wagner's Citizens Committee to Keep New York City Clean, a state-city panel trying to untangle the finances of the city's transit system and the state's Citizens Council for Traffic Safety.
        Mr. Phalen is survived by his wife of 37 years, Jane Radford Brown Phalen; two sons, Clifton A., of Boxford, Mass., and Daniel K., of Seattle; a daughter, Carol H. Swiggett of Lloyd Harbor, L.I.; two stepdaughters, Martha J. George of Woodstock, Conn., and Ann R. Omohundro of Belmont, Mass; 11 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren. His first wife, Helen Masters Phalen, died in 1956.
      