
        Dr. Bernard L. Oser, a biochemist whose work enriched public awareness of what can safely go into food and drink and cosmetics, died yesterday in Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 95 years old.
        The cause was a gastrointestinal illness, his family said.
        Dr. Oser lived for many years in Forest Hills, Queens, but in the last two years had lived at a nursing home, the Dunrovin Health Center, in Creskill, N.J.
        Dr. Oser spent 47 years with Food Research Laboratories, later Food and Drug Research Laboratories, as it grew into one of the country's foremost commercial testing grounds for wholesomeness. He retired as chairman and sole owner in 1973.
        Dr. Oser was credited with alerting the food industry in the 1950's to the need for toxicological studies and safety evaluations. His expertise in two related fields, nutrition and toxicology, helped move food science forward at a time when there was growing concern over new additives and preservatives.
        He took moderate positions in an often shrill debate, pointing out, for instance, that if used safely and judiciously, additives could enhance a food product. "There are more than 100 chemical substances in orange juice alone, and not all of them can inherently be bad," he once noted.
        He counseled caution on the imposition of rules, observing that no law could guarantee beyond any doubt that no harm would result from a substance under any conceivable circumstances.
        He was a founding member of the Institute of Food Technologies and frequently served on advisory panels of the National Research Council and the Expert Committee on Food Additives, sponsored jointly by the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
        A native of Philadelphia, Bernard Levussove Oser graduated in 1920 from the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned a master's degree in science in 1925. Two years later, he received a Ph.D. from Fordham University.
        He joined Food Research Laboratories in 1926 as assistant director of the modest enterprise in midtown Manhattan. The company grew as it migrated to Queens, and then to upstate Waverly, N.Y., where it is now Liberty Research under different ownership.
        Dr. Oser served as director and then as vice president and director from 1934 to 1957, and in 1951 bought up the remaining shares of the founder, Dr. Phillip B. Hawk. He was president and director from 1957 to 1970, served two more years as chairman and retired as a corporate director in 1976.
        There will be a memorial service at 10 A.M. Monday at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, Manhattan.
        Dr. Oser is survived by his wife, the former Clara Kotkin, also a resident of the Dunrovin Health Center; a daughter, Zelda Oser Zelinsky of Wilmette, Ill.; a son, Alan S., of Staten Island, an editor in the real estate section of The New York Times; a brother, Fil Oser of the Bronx; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      