
        Victor Riesel, the crusading syndicated labor columnist who was blinded by an acid attack in 1956, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, according to his son, Michael.
        In a crime that shocked the nation, Mr. Riesel was assaulted just after leaving Lindy's restaurant in midtown Manhattan at 3 A.M. on April 5, 1956. An hour earlier, he had finished a radio broadcast in which he assailed the leadership of a Long Island local of the International Union of Operating Engineers.
        "I wasn't important as a man, but I was important as a symbol," Mr. Riesel (pronounced re-ZELL) wrote later. "The attack on me was an attack on the entire free press, challenging its right to expose crime and injustice. In hitting me, the underworld was thumbing its nose at the community and the forces of law and order."
        Accompanied by a friend and his secretary, Mr. Riesel was headed for his car on 51st Street that night when a young man emerged from the shadows near the Mark Hellinger Theater.
        "The acid caught me right between the eyes," he wrote. "He stood there calmly for a moment, deliberately appraising his work. Then he ambled away."
        One month later, doctors told Mr. Riesel that he would never see again.
        "There was no terror at the moment when I knew I had crossed the line into permanent darkness," Mr. Riesel wrote. "There was only a sudden feeling of shame. I was afraid that people would treat me too gently or shy away from me as though from a freak. And suddenly, I wondered if I could go on writing and earning a living."
        But he did.
        Abe Telvi, the man accused of throwing the acid, was found dead on Mulberry Street on the morning of July 28, 1956. There was a bullet in his head.
        On Aug. 18, the F.B.I. arrested eight men and said the blinding was the work of garment district terrorists determined to silence Mr. Riesel.
        Despite his blinding, Mr. Riesel never stopped inveighing against gangster infiltration and other corruption in labor unions that had stirred his emotions since his youth.
        His column, which appeared locally in The Daily Mirror in New York, was syndicated to as many as 350 newspapers at its height.
        Until he retired about 1990, he typed his own columns. Mr. Riesel attributed his prowess at the keyboard to the fact that "I fell in love with my typing teacher."
        His son, Michael, said: "He was an expert on the typewriter. He never learned the computer. He knew how to touch-type and typed his own copy to the end. Somebody else would edit it for him and send it to the syndicate for distribution.
        "He would wake every morning about 7 o'clock or earlier. My mother would read the paper for him, I would say cover to cover."
        And afterward, Michael said: "He would go down to the office. Then he would be on the phone till it came time to write the column."
        Mr. Riesel also lectured and taught, as well as making radio and television appearances. And he had served as president of the Overseas Press Club of America.
        He never forget how he was inspired to devote his life to helping ordinary working people.
        "What really got to me," he once recalled, "was something I saw on March 6, 1930, the day of a demonstration in Union Square. I went into the day room of my father's union, and there was a grown man weeping. He had no job. His family had nothing to eat."
        Mr. Riesel's father, Nathan, held the No. 1 card in a small union of skilled workers and frequently took his son to meetings.
        Victor Riesel was born and reared on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. When he was 13, his family moved to the Bronx.
        At 15, he graduated from Morris High School. He spent the years from 1928 to 1940 at City College, where he attended night classes, specializing in personnel and industrial relations.
        By day, he worked at various times in a hat factory, a lace plant and a steel mill. He had his introduction to journalism as director of undergraduate publications and as an editor, columnist, book and drama critic.
        Later, he worked in the mines and mills in Pittsburgh, Detroit, Cleveland and Youngstown, Ohio, and reported what he saw for labor publications. He became a correspondent for several foreign papers. He became managing editor of The New Leader magazine, then joined The New York Post in 1941 and began his column in 1942. At the time of the acid attack, it appeared in 193 newspapers.
        In addition to his wife, the former Evelyn Lobelson, and his son, Michael, of Manhattan, Mr. Riesel is survived by a daughter, Susan Riesel Hurwitz of Arcadia, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      