
        Roderick Stephens Jr., a leading yachtsman and boat systems expert who sailed in three America's Cup defense campaigns, died early Tuesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 85.
        Bill Langan, a spokesman for the family, said Mr. Stephens died in his sleep. He had suffered a stroke in the late 1980's but still sailed occasionally.
        "His long curiosity about boats was infectious," said Mr. Langan, chief designer for Sparkman & Stephens, the New York naval architecture firm Mr. Stephens joined in 1933. "He loved boats and made everybody around him love boats."
        He was associate designer and later president of Sparkman & Stephens. His brother, Olin J. Stephens 2d, was a co-founder of the firm in 1929 with the late Drake Sparkman.
        Mr. Stephens, who was born in New York City, left Cornell University in 1928 to work at the former Henry Nevins boat yard on City Island. During World War II, he was instrumental in developing the DUKW, an amphibious Army vehicle that subsequently earned Mr. Stephens a United States Medal of Freedom.
        In yachting, he was particularly skillful at improvising on boats, whether it be with the rig, sails or deck layout. One of his most notable projects was Dorade, an innovative 52-foot sailboat he and Mr. Olin designed and built in 1930.  The yacht went on to win numerous long-distance races, including the 1931 British Fastnet Race and that same year, the Trans-Atlantic Race from Newport, R.I. On the crew's return home, the Dorade crew was given a ticker-tape parade in New York City.
        Mr. Stephens also aided in the design of the America's Cup yacht, Ranger, in 1937; Columbia, in 1958, and Constellation, in 1964, and sailed in the cup races for all three boats.
        Mr. Stephens was a member of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers. He belonged to several yacht clubs, including the New York Yacht Club, and was a former commodore of the Cruising Club of America. He was also an honorary member of the United States Naval Academy Fales Committee and was chairman of the New Ship Committee of the Sea Education Association.
        He is survived by his daughter, Betsy Stephens, of Washington; his brother, of Hanover, N.H., and his sister, Marguerite Stephens Sheridan, of Seaford, Del.
      