
        Prof. Edward Shils, a theoretical sociologist noted for his research on the role of intellectuals in the formation of public policy and the exercise of power, died on Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, according to the University of Chicago, where he held the title of distinguished service professor.
        One of the most sought-after experts in his field, Professor Shils was esteemed for his erudition and the breadth of his interests. His ties with the University of Chicago went back more than five decades, and he had continued to write and travel and meet with students until just weeks ago.
        Professor Shils taught sociology, social philosophy, English literature, the history of Chinese science and many other subjects that reflected his grasp of various cultures and fields.
        He spent part of the year in England, where he was associated with the University of London, Kings College and Peterhouse at Cambridge University, and the London School of Economics. Over the years he had lectured at various European universities.
        He was the editor of Minerva, a quarterly that is circulated internationally as a "review of the social, administrative, political and economic problems of science and scholarship." He founded the journal, published in London, in 1962. It was named for the Roman goddess of wisdom, invention and technical prowess, and its influence belies its modest circulation of about 800.
        In 1979, at the invitation of the National Council on the Humanities, Professor Shils became the eighth person to deliver the annual Jefferson Lecture, the highest national distinction for scholarly achievement.
        He also received the Balzan Prize, awarded by an Italian foundation for fields without Nobel Prizes. In presenting Professor Shils the 1983 prize, the foundation cited him for combining the empiricism of American sociology with the theoretical thinking of European sociologists, thus contributing "toward a truly universal, general sociology, as opposed to the 'French,' 'German,' and 'American' sociologies."
        Born in Springfield, Mass., Professor Shils graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1931 and earned a master's degree at Cambridge in 1961. In 1933 he went to the University of Chicago as a research assistant and became an instructor and, by 1950, a professor.
        As a high school student, he discovered the work of the German sociologist Max Weber, whom he continued studying and writing about throughout his career. He translated works by Weber as well as the sociologist Karl Mannheim.
        Among his many publications and books was "Tradition" (University of Chicago Press, 1982). Showing the sweep of his knowledge with a wide-ranging analysis, the book's theme was that the modern tendency to exalt in the new just because it is new ran counter to basic anthropological and sociological realities.
        He is survived by a son, Adam, of Chicago.
      