
        Solomon D. Erulkar, a neurophysiologist and professor emeritus at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 70.
        His death was caused by complications from heart surgery, said his son Matthew.
        Dr. Erulkar spent most of his career in the laboratory, where he studied how nerves communicate, and in the classroom, where he shared his knowledge.
        He was the first researcher to make electrophysiological recordings from single nerve cells in the part of the brain that deals with hearing, the auditory cortex. He determined the role of calcium and magnesium in neural transmissions in the central nervous system. And he explained the role played by steroid hormones in neural transmissions in the spinal cord.
        He was born in Calcutta, India, and studied at New College, Oxford University, from 1942 to 1945 before receiving a bachelor's degree and a master's degree from the University of Toronto and a doctorate in physiology from Johns Hopkins Medical School in Baltimore. Continuing his research, he earned a second doctorate at Oxford before joining the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania in 1960. He became a tenured professor of pharmacology in 1966. He retired in 1993, but remained active as a researcher and lecturer.
        Dr. Erulkar was a visiting professor at Hadassah Medical School of Hebrew University in Jerusalem, an exchange professor at the Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris and a visiting professor at the University of Basel in Switzerland. He was the author of more than 70 scholarly articles, including the "Nerves and Neurons" section of the 1989 Encyclopedia Britannica.
        Besides his son Matthew, of Ardmore, Pa., Dr. Erulkar is survived by his wife, the former Tass Bear; another son, Benjamin, of Takoma Park, Md.; two sisters, Mary Visanti Burtle of Los Angeles and Sarah de Normanville of London, and a grandchild.
      