
        Robert Warren Harlan, a former executive director of the National Council of Young Men's Christian Associations, died on Monday at Grossmont Hospital in La Mesa, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Alpine, Calif.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Frank C. Kiehne, a family spokesman in Washington.
        Dr. Harlan directed the Y.M.C.A. council from 1971 to 1980, when it represented 2,100 local Y.M.C.A.'s with 13 million members.
        He later became executive vice president of the Independent Sector in Washington, a nationwide network of 650 organizations, foundations and corporations that promotes giving and volunteering. He retired in 1985.
        He was born in London Mills, a village in west-central Illinois, and began his career as a part-time worker at the Y.M.C.A. in Whittier, Calif., while studying at Whittier College. He received a bachelor's degree from Whittier in 1947, a master's degree from the University of Southern California and a doctorate in adult education and business administration from Ohio State University in 1970.
        During his student years he also worked at Y.M.C.A.'s in Monrovia and Bakersfield, Calif., and at regional Y.M.C.A. offices. The organization awarded him a scholarship that enabled him to complete his doctorate before he became national executive director.
        During his tenure, he emphasized social activism and diversity to make the Y.M.C.A. more closely resemble the general population and increase its effectiveness in inner cities.
        Dr. Harlan also sought to give neighborhood Y.M.C.A.'s a more international cast in their programs and to cultivate partnerships with independent Y's in 90 other countries. He helped form alliances with other youth service agencies as a founding member of the Coalition of National Voluntary Organizations.
        He was active in the Geneva-based World Alliance of Y.M.C.A.'s and visited 30 countries, including the Soviet Union, where he helped create an exchange program for young workers.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Effie Henley Harlan; four daughters, Nancy Billings of Long Beach, Calif., Linda Ucciferri of Westfield, N.J., Kathryn Hoxmeier of Ashland, Ore., and Betsy Haines of Alpine; a brother, Dale, of Benson, Ariz., and eight grandchildren.
      