
        Sol Tax, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago who is credited with helping to organize anthropology as a global discipline, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 87.
        The cause was a heart attack, said William Harms, a spokesman for the university.
        In 1957, Professor Tax founded Current Anthropology, an international journal that publishes research and commentary, and while serving as its editor until 1974 he used the journal to bring people from around the world together to discuss important issues in anthropology.
        "More than any other single person, Sol Tax was the facilitator and organizer of anthropology as an international discipline," said George Stocking, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago and an expert in the field's history.
        Professor Tax studied at the University of Wisconsin and received a doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1935.
        He often recounted that he was urged to specialize in anthropology in 1928 by a professor because there were only about 50 anthropologists working in the United States then.
        "When I went to my first national meeting of anthropologists," he told colleagues at a meeting in 1970, "we could sit in a little room."
        Professor Tax was a specialist on the cultures of North and Middle American Indians, and while working with Indian tribes, he established an approach known as action anthropology, in which researchers worked to solve social problems of groups they were studying.
        Professor Tax joined the faculty of the university in 1940 and from 1955 to 1958 he was the chairman of the anthropology department. In 1959, he served as president of the American Anthropological Association. He was also a director of the Smithsonian Institution's Center for the Study of Man, a research and educational group.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gertrude Katz; two daughters, Susan Freeman of Chicago and Marianna Choldin of Champaign, Ill., and three grandchildren.
      