
        Oren Root, a former New York Superintendent of Banks and an aide and adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Saturday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Oren Root Jr.
        Mr. Root, a lawyer, was a great-nephew of Elihu Root, a former United States Senator who was Secretary of War and then Secretary of State under President Theodore Roosevelt.
        Oren Root first gained prominence in the Republican Party in 1940, when he drummed up support for Wendell L. Willkie, who became the Republican Presidential nominee that year, with Mr. Root serving as chairman of the Associated Willkie Clubs of America. Mr. Willkie lost to President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        From 1959 to 1964, Mr. Root served in Governor Rockefeller's administration. For two years, he served as the Governor's special assistant for Federal and interstate relations. After briefly practicing law, he was Superintendent of Banks from 1961 to 1964.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Root was the son of another Oren Root and of the former Aida de Acosta. He graduated in 1933 from Princeton, and received a law degree in 1936 from the University of Virginia. In World War II, he was a Navy officer and won the Croix de Guerre for service in the Normandy invasion.
        For years, he practiced law in New York City, mainly with the firm of Root Barrett Cohen Knapp & Smith, which he helped found. Later, he was counsel to the firm of Lord Day & Lord, Barrett Smith until it was dissolved last year. From 1965 to 1972, he was a senior officer of Irving Trust Company.
        He was a longtime member of the executive committee of the International Rescue Committee, and was the first president of the National Association for Mental Health.
        In addition to his son Oren Jr. of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, the former Daphne Skouras, whom he married in 1947; two other sons, Spyros, of Barcelona, Spain, and Anthony, of Hong Kong; a daughter, Dolores Root of Shelburne Falls, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      