
        Eugene P. Wigner, a physicist who made fundamental advances in nuclear physics and quantum theory and helped usher in the atomic age, died on Sunday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Princeton.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Princeton University, where he spent much of his career.
        His greatest contribution to science, for which Dr. Wigner won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1963, was his insight into quantum mechanics, a cornerstone of modern science that looks at the behavior of subatomic particles. He discovered a way to understand the complex actions of electrons, which circle all atomic nuclei in discrete energy bands, jumping from one quantum level to another.
        In pioneering this approach, Dr. Wigner became one of the first scientists to peer into the subatomic realm to see the deep symmetry involved in the balance of countervailing forces and particles, a perception that subsequently emerged as one of the guiding principles of 20th-century physics. Today the scientific canon includes Wigner crystals, Wigner theorems, Wigner energy and Wigner rules -- all tending to be expressions of symmetry and order.
        Dr. Wigner was part of a circle of remarkably visionary scientists born and educated in Budapest who eventually came to the West and transformed the modern world.
        In 1939, having glimpsed the possibility of a nuclear chain reaction, Dr. Wigner was one of three prominent scientists who persuaded Albert Einstein to alert President Franklin D. Roosevelt that an atomic bomb was probably feasible and that Hitler might build it first. Their warning led the United States to start the Manhattan Project to build the atomic bomb.
        In 1942, he took a leave from Princeton University to work at the University of Chicago, where he made important contributions to the bomb effort. He helped perfect the world's first nuclear reactor, which marked the beginning of the nuclear era.
        In the decades after the war, Dr. Wigner became a leader in the development of nuclear energy as well as a staunch anti-communist and political conservative. He sought to minimize the potential effects of nuclear war by urging the construction of bomb shelters, in contrast to colleagues who focused on trying to prevent the bomb's use.
        Late in life, he became fascinated by the philosophical implications of quantum mechanics and what he called "the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics" in describing the natural world. The two, he said, are "disturbingly similar."
        Physics, Dr. Wigner once remarked, "has given us the ability for a deeper understanding of nature, this leading to a more carefree life both materially and also spiritually." But he added that it had also "induced some humility into our thinking by acquainting us with the fact that we are not at the center of the universe -- that we inhabit one of the planets of one of billions of stars."
        Eugene Paul Wigner was born in Budapest on Nov. 17, 1902, as the second of three children. His father directed a leather factory, and his parents put great emphasis on his education.
        Budapest at the turn of the century had celebrated schools that produced no fewer than seven of the 20th-century's leading scientists. In addition to Dr. Wigner, they are Theodor von Karman, George de Hevesy, Michael Polanyi, Leo Szilard, John von Neumann and Edward Teller. While growing up in Budapest, Dr. Wigner befriended Dr. von Neumann as well as others who became prominent scientists.
        He developed a lifelong hatred of communism when revolutionaries took over Hungary after World War I, forcing his family to flee their city temporarily.
        Graduating from high school in 1920, he studied chemical engineering under Dr. Polanyi at the Berlin Institute of Technology; he received his Ph.D. in 1925 and got an appointment there soon afterward. In Berlin, he met some compatriots from Hungary, Dr. Teller and Dr. Szilard, and formed close friendships with them.
        Dr. Wigner was soon swept into the turmoil of modern physics, which was trying to right itself after being upended by bizarre new theories like quantum mechanics, which seemed akin to magic in some ways. In the ordinary world, an object either exists or does not. But quantum theory provides that something at the subatomic level can both exist and not exist simultaneously. It also postulates that some nebulous, wavelike states of being assume definite form only when they are actually observed.
        Dr. Wigner's pioneering ideas on group theory and quantum mechanics appeared in a series of six papers published in 1927 and 1928, when he worked at the Institute of Technology in Berlin. He wrote three of those papers with Dr. von Neumann. His book, "Group Theory and Its Application to Atomic Spectra," originally published in German in 1931, remains a scientific classic.
        Dr. Wigner came to the United States in 1930 and took a post at Princeton University, where he remained, except for short stints elsewhere, until his retirement in 1971.
        In the 1930's, he made major contributions to nuclear physics, elucidating new details of how protons and neutrons are bound together in atomic nuclei and helping to explain how free neutrons can be absorbed in nuclei. Such work eventually played a role in the effort to create a nuclear bomb and a nuclear reactor.
        Under the direction of Enrico Fermi, Dr. Wigner helped develop many of the theoretical methods that formed the basis for the world's first controlled chain reaction, which began on a squash court at the University of Chicago on Dec. 2, 1942, as a neutron counter began clicking wildly.
        "Nothing very spectacular had happened," Dr. Wigner once recalled. "Nevertheless, when the rods were pushed back in and the clicking died down, we suddenly experienced a letdown feeling, for all of us understood the language of the counter.
        "For some time we had known that we were about to unlock a giant," he continued. "Still, we could not escape an eerie feeling when we knew we had actually done it. We felt as, I presume, everyone feels who has done something that he knows will have very far-reaching consequences which he cannot foresee."
        Fearful that Hitler's scientists were making nuclear progress, Dr. Wigner threw himself into designing reactors for Hanford, Wash., which made plutonium for atomic bombs.
        As the war's focus shifted to the Pacific, he came to feel that Japan would surrender without the devastation wrought by an atomic bomb and signed a petition opposing its use.
        After the war, Dr. Wigner served briefly as the director of research and development at the Clinton Laboratories in Oak Ridge, Tenn. The site, which pioneered new kinds of reactors, eventually became known as the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
        Back at Princeton, he pursued his theoretical studies, receiving the Nobel Prize. The range of his contributions was reflected in the citation, which honored him for "systematically improving and extending the methods of quantum mechanics and applying them widely."
        From 1964 to 1965, he served as director of civil defense research at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He called such work "one of the most essential endeavors in this country."
        Dr. Wigner was often outspoken and went out of his way to laud Dr. Teller, an old Hungarian compatriot who became vilified in liberal circles for his hawkish views. On the occasion of Dr. Teller's 80th birthday, Dr. Wigner called him a "great man" of vast imagination and "one of the most thoughtful statesmen of science."
        Over his long career, Dr. Wigner collected many prizes and honors, including the National Science Medal, the Albert Einstein Award and the Max Planck Medal of the German Physical Society. He held honorary degrees from Princeton and 26 other schools.
        In 1990, after the fall of Communism in Hungary, Dr. Wigner accepted a high prize in that country, the Order of the Banner of the Republic of Hungary With Rubies. In 1994, he was given the country's highest accolade, the Order of Merit, "as an acknowledgment of his scientific career and of his outstanding achievements in the enrichment of universal human values."
        Dr. Wigner is survived by his wife, Eileen Hamilton Wigner of Princeton; three children, Erika Zimmerman of Berlin, David Wigner of Paris and Martha Upton of Hudson, Ohio; two grandchildren, and two sisters.
        A memorial service is to be held at the Princeton University Chapel at 1:30 P.M. on Jan. 28.
      