
        Franz Allers, a classically trained conductor who was the musical director for the original production of "My Fair Lady" and other Broadway musicals by Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe, died on Thursday at Desert Springs Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev., while traveling to California. He was 89 and lived in Munich, Germany.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Chandler Holmes, his brother-in-law.
        Mr. Allers once said that for him there was "no distinction" between popular music and classical music. "There is only good music and bad music," he said. Harold C. Schonberg of The New York Times wrote that Mr. Allers, along with the conductor Maurice Abravanel, "completely revised the standards of Broadway pit work," demanding the highest quality from both the orchestra players and the singers.
        Long associated with the musicals of Lerner and Loewe, Mr. Allers was the musical director for the original productions, and later some revivals, of that team's biggest successes, including "Brigadoon," "Paint Your Wagon," "My Fair Lady" and "Camelot."
        In 1905, he was born in Carlsbad, Czechoslovakia, and started playing the violin at the age of 7. In 1920, he moved to Berlin where he became a violinist in the Berlin Philharmonic. Eventually, he turned to conducting, and had a distinguished career in Europe as an opera and symphonic conductor before moving to the United States in 1938.
        In this country, Mr. Allers started out as a ballet conductor, and traveled all over North and South America with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. He found his way to Broadway by accident, when Mr. Abravanel asked him to step in as the musical director of Lerner and Loewe's "Day Before Spring." They were so impressed with his work that they asked him to be their permanent conductor.
        Mr. Allers selected the orchestra for the 1956 Broadway debut of "My Fair Lady" and helped revise the orchestration of the score. He later conducted the first performances of "My Fair Lady" in West Berlin and Munich, Germany; Milan, Italy; Moscow, and Vienna.
        When Lerner and Loewe's partnership dissolved in 1962, Mr. Allers returned to Europe, becoming the director of the Tonkunstler Orchestra in Vienna and later of the Gartnerplatz Theater, Munich's secondary opera house. From that time on, he divided his time between Europe and the United States, between opera or symphonic music and musical theater.
        He conducted "Die Fledermaus," "Hansel and Gretel" and "Der Rosenkavalier" at the Metropolitan Opera, and served for a while as the director of the Music Theater of Lincoln Center at the New York State Theater.
        In addition to his brother-in-law, he is survived by a daughter, Carol Hopper of Santa Fe, N.M.
      