
        Ron Luciano, a former major league umpire known for his flamboyant style and later the author of a series of colorful reminiscences on the baseball world, was found dead yesterday afternoon in the garage of his home in Endicott, N.Y., the police reported. He was 57.
        "The preliminary investigation shows no obvious signs of foul play," said Detective Lieut. Harlan Ayers of the Endicott police, who reported that officers found Luciano's body at about 3:50 P.M. No one was at the home when the police arrived in response to a 911 call.
        An autopsy was to be conducted at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Binghamton.
        In his 11-year career as an American League umpire, Luciano had a theatrical flair in making calls and did not shrink from confrontations.
        Recalling the reaction of a fellow umpire, Luciano once remembered how "One game, Bill Haller came into the locker room afterward and said: 'I just can't believe it. You set a new record out there today. You called that runner out at second base 16 times without stopping.' "
        His chest-to-chest encounters with Manager Earl Weaver of the Baltimore Orioles were memorable, and he once ejected Weaver from both ends of a 1975 doubleheader.
        After retiring in 1980, Luciano worked as a sports commentator for NBC. In the books "Strike Two," "The Umpire Strikes Back," "The Fall of the Roman Umpire" and "Remembrance of Swings Past," he spun scores of baseball stories and become a personality off the field.
        At 6 feet 4 inches and 300 pounds, Luciano, a former football lineman at Syracuse from 1956 to '58, cut an imposing figure. He worked the 1974 World Series and the American League playoffs in 1971, 1975 and 1978.
        After leaving baseball, he reflected on the changes in the game during his career.
        "When I started, it was played by nine tough competitors on grass, in graceful ball parks," he observed. "But while I was trying to answer the daily Quiz-O-Gram on the exploding scoreboard, a revolution was taking place around me. By the time I was finished, there were 10 men on each side, the game was played indoors, on plastic, and I had to spend half my time watching out for a man dressed in a chicken suit who kept trying to kiss me."
      