
        Walter J. Sheridan, a Federal investigator who was an associate of the Kennedy family and pursued the teamsters' union leader James R. Hoffa, died on Friday at his home in Derwood, Md. He was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, friends said.
        Mr. Sheridan worked closely with Robert F. Kennedy in the 1950's when Mr. Kennedy was chief counsel to the Senate rackets committee and John F. Kennedy was a committee member. Mr. Sheridan and Robert Kennedy spent much time investigating labor corruption, especially in the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
        When Robert Kennedy became Attorney General, he recruited Mr. Sheridan as a special assistant to investigate Federal crimes, particularly involving the teamsters.
        In March 1964, a Federal Court jury in Chattanooga, Tenn., convicted Mr. Hoffa of tampering with a Federal jury two years earlier, and he went to prison. He was released in 1971 when his sentence was commuted by President Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Sheridan was the author of a 1972 book, "The Fall and Rise of Jimmy Hoffa." Mr. Hoffa disappeared in 1975.
        Mr. Sheridan was an agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation for four years but resigned, he said later, because J. Edgar Hoover's fierce brand of anti-Communism made him uneasy. He was also an investigator for the National Security Agency for three years.
        As a principal aide for the Senate Judiciary and Labor and Human Resources Committees in the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Sheridan led investigations into drug companies that tampered with data submitted to the Food and Drug Administration, working conditions in mines and exploitation of farm workers.
        Mr. Sheridan was a regional coordinator for John F. Kennedy's 1960 Presidential campaign. He also worked in the senatorial and Presidential campaigns of Robert and Edward M. Kennedy.
        From 1965 to 1970, he was a special correspondent for NBC, producing documentaries on crime, gun control and other issues.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy; four sons, Walter, of Gaithersburg, Md., John, of Germantown, Md., Joseph, of Lansdale, Pa., and Donald, of Harrisburg, Pa.; a daughter, Hannah Shorey of Dallas, and 14 grandchildren.
      