
        Daniel Robbins, an art historian who specialized in 20th-century art and helped encourage the study of it while director of the Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design and briefly of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University, died on Saturday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 62 and lived in Troy, N.Y., and Braintree, Vt..
        The cause was Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, a cancer of the lymphatic system, said wife, Eugenia Scandrett Robbins.
        Mr. Robbins was born in Brooklyn in 1932. He studied at the University of Chicago, Yale University and the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, where his teacher was Robert Goldwater, the modernist historian. He became a specialist in early modernism, writing on salon Cubists like Albert Gleizes, and he was a champion of contemporaries like Louise Bourgeois and the Color Field painters.
        After a Fulbright scholarship in Paris, Mr. Robbins became a curator at the National Gallery of Art in 1959, then at the Guggenheim Museum two years later. As director in Rhode Island, from 1965 to 1971, he presented shows of new art, notably one called "Raid the Icebox," for which Andy Warhol chose works from the museum's collection, and another on contemporary still life.
        While he was the director at the Fogg and a professor at Harvard, he organized an exhibition, in collaboration with students, on Villon, showed the work of living artists not seen there before, like Roberts Irwin, and stressed the collecting of contemporary prints and photographs. Later he became a fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., taught at Dartmouth and since 1981 had been the May I. C. Baker professor of the arts at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y.
        Mr. Robbins also wrote on Vermont history, American sculpture and folk art. In addition to his wife, he is survived by his mother, Ora Robbins of Oakland, Calif.; a brother, Matthew, of San Francisco, and two daughters, Juliette, of San Francisco and Miranda, of Manhattan.
      