
        James P. Grant, the American foreign aid expert who in 1980 became executive director of Unicef and made it into a major force for helping children, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N. Y. He was 72 and lived in Croton, N.Y.
        The cause of death was cancer, Unicef officials said. Mr. Grant resigned from the United Nations Children's Fund last week.
        The direction and urgency he gave to Unicef have widely been credited with helping to save millions of children's lives. Mr. Grant, who had also been an Under Secretary General of the United Nations, was still traveling and promoting what he called his "child survival revolution" until late last year.
        His message was simple: low-cost, practical methods for saving young lives and curtailing the spread of easily preventible diseases can quickly make a difference. He advocated treating diarrhea, a leading killer of children, using doses of water, sugar, and salt that village people could make themselves.
        To measure the successes and sometimes the failures of Unicef and the countries it assisted, Mr. Grant introduced an annual report, The State of the World's Children, now in its 15th year. In 1990, he organized a World Summit for Children, which he considered a highlight of his career.
        In a statement after Mr. Grant's death, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said: "Very few men or women ever have the opportunity to do as much good in the world as James Grant. And very few have ever grasped that opportunity with such complete and dedicated commitment."
        In 1994, Mr. Grant received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Clinton, who cited him for his "compassion and courage in his crusade for the world's children."
        Mr. Grant was born in Beijing on May 12, 1922, the son of a public health expert working in Asia. He received a bachelor of arts degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a law degree from Harvard.
        He began a lifelong career in international service in the 1940's, working with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration in China.
        In 1962 he became Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near East and South Asian Affairs and a deputy director of the International Cooperation Administration, a precursor of the United States Agency for International Development. In 1964, he moved to Turkey to head the American aid mission there.
        Three years later, Mr. Grant was appointed an assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development, serving until 1969, when he helped found the Overseas Development Council and became its president and chief executive officer. He remained there until moving to Unicef in 1980.
        In 1943, Mr. Grant married Ethel Henck. The couple had three sons, John, James, and William. His wife died of a heart attack in 1988 on a trip in India. In 1989 he married Ellan W. Young, a photographer. He is survived by his wife, his sons and five grandchildren.
      