
        George Kinzler, a specialty food consultant and former gourmet foods buyer who helped to create the Cellar Marketplace at the Macy's at Herald Square, died on Sunday at his Manhattan home. He was 81.
        The cause was liver failure, his family said.
        Mr. Kinzler, a graduate of City College, spent 42 years at Macy's, starting in the executive training program in 1936. He was the store's principal food buyer for 27 years, when the department was still on the eighth floor.
        He helped to plan and stock the Marketplace in the basement along the lines proposed by Edward S. Finkelstein, who was the new president of the store when The Cellar opened in 1976. It had 10,000 square feet of tile, glass and natural wood decor devoted to displaying and selling fine foods.
        Mr. Kinzler retired from Macy's in 1979 and joined Fay & Allen's Foodworks on the Upper East Side as vice president of marketing. He later became a consultant to clients throughout the country, including the Food Emporium chain in New York and The Market at Larimer Square in Denver. He also contributed to various publications and wrote the monthly Bottom Line column for Specialty Foods Merchandising magazine.
        While at Macy's, he made more than 50 buying trips to 14 European countries to find and bring back new foods and candies. The French Government awarded him its Ordre de Merite Agricole.
        "Long before so-called gourmet foods were ubiquitous in the city, George Kinzler doggedly and devotedly pioneered them at Macy's," Mimi Sheraton, the food critic and writer, said yesterday. "I learned a great deal about judging quality and spotting scams from him."
        Mr. Kinzler is survived by his wife, Jayne; a son, Peter of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Ellen Schlossberg of Chappaqua, N.Y.; two sisters, Hazel Goddess of Bellevue, Wash., and Winifred Breuning of Media, Pa.; a stepson, David Rutkin of Monroe, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Wendy Rutkin of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      