
        Jess Stacy, one of the leading pianists of the swing era and long a mainstay in Benny Goodman's orchestra, died on Sunday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 90.
        The cause was congestive heart failure after a brief illness, said his wife, Patricia.
        Mr. Stacy was a widely admired musician, even if he never received as much attention as some of his peers. His light, pensive touch, along with his lyricism, set him apart and made him a pianist who required careful listening. But his harmonic knowledge and his rhythmic grace made him a valuable asset to many bands.
        He spent his career -- truncated by a decision to leave the music industry in the late 1950's -- working with Benny Goodman, Lionel Hampton, Bob Crosby, Tommy Dorsey, Gene Krupa and other band leaders. He also recorded and played with a constantly changing group of Chicago Dixieland musicians who were affiliated with Milt Gabler's Commodore label and with the guitarist and band leader Eddie Condon.
        Mr. Stacy was introduced to jazz early. As a boy he lived in several towns on the Mississippi River, and by the time he was 14 had heard Fate Marable's New Orleans band, featuring the young Louis Armstrong and Johnny and Baby Dodds. At 16 he was playing piano on a river steamboat, and by the time he was 20 he had moved to Chicago and started a long association with Condon.
        In 1935, at the suggestion of the producer and talent scout John Hammond, he was hired by Benny Goodman, and spent four years working with him. It was at Goodman's famous 1938 concert at Carnegie Hall that Mr. Stacy gave one of his most memorable performances, a three-chorus improvisation on "Sing, Sing, Sing" that brought lyricism into an event filled with crowd-pleasing bombast. After Mr. Stacy retired, he occasionally joined Mr. Goodman for television broadcasts.
        Mr. Stacy also made some important recordings of piano compositions by the cornetist Bix Beiderbecke, including "Flashes" and "In the Dark," that helped establish Beiderbecke as a composer worthy of interpretation. From 1938 on, Mr. Stacy recorded prolifically for Commodore. His work included all-star sessions under his own name, solo pieces, band music with the saxophonist Bud Freeman, a piano trio featuring Willie (the Lion) Smith and Joey Bushkin, and many recordings with Condon.
        In the late 1950's, he grew dissatisfied with the music industry and retired, performing only on special occasions.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Fred, of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      