
        Joe Slovo, the Communist intellectual widely credited with being a mastermind of South Africa's national reconciliation, died yesterday after a long battle with cancer of the bone marrow. He was 68.
        Mr. Slovo, who was active in the South African Communist Party for half a century, was a folk hero to many blacks, the first white admitted into the leadership of the African National Congress, a member of the team that negotiated the end of white rule, and Minister of Housing in the first freely elected Government.
        With the arguable exception of F. W. de Klerk, the President who surrendered the white political monopoly, probably no white man did as much as Mr. Slovo to shape the new South Africa.
        He immensely enjoyed the irony of it: that although fellow whites vilified him as a Stalinist and a revolutionary, his major contributions to the new order were acts of compromise and moderation.
        President Nelson Mandela, who described his close friend as "a great African patriot," said yesterday, "Joe Slovo dedicated his life to the struggle for justice, democracy and freedom in our country."
        It was Mr. Slovo, with his militant credentials as a former commander of anti-apartheid guerrillas, who in 1990 persuaded Mr. Mandela and other resistance leaders to suspend their military assaults to create a climate for negotiations.
        And it was Mr. Slovo who in 1992 first broached the idea of a unity Government, including a five-year guarantee of job security for the powerful and potentially disruptive whites in the civil service and military.
        Born in Lithuania in 1926, he moved to South Africa with his parents at age 9. He fought with a South African armored division against the Nazis in World War II, then used a veteran's grant to study law at the University of the Witwatersrand, where he met a fellow law student named Nelson Mandela.
        Mr. Slovo had joined the Communist Party in 1942. Mr. Mandela was something of a black nationalist at that time, and, as he explained in his recent autobiography, he disdained Communism as a foreign, white ideology.
        But the men forged a friendship that grew into an unshakable political alliance. Over the years Mr. Slovo and other white Communists assumed influential places in the African National Congress. Mr. Slovo often said that his party's greatest role was in steering the A.N.C. away from black nationalism to a doctrine of nonracialism.
        "The culture of nonracialism is now deeply embedded," he said in a recent interview, surveying the prospects of racial conflict in the future. "That has a great deal to do with the Communist Party."
        Although the A.N.C. probably lost white support at home and abroad for its alliance with the Communists, Mr. Mandela doggedly defended the partnership, likening it to the West's alliance with Stalin against Hitler in World War II.
        Even while the Communist Party was legal, Mr. Slovo was repeatedly arrested and banned from public gatherings or political activities.
        As a lawyer he often defended political dissidents. He was part of the legal team that defended 156 anti-apartheid campaigners (including himself and Mr. Mandela) charged with treason in 1956. The trial lasted five years and ended without convictions.
        In 1963 he was fortuitously out of the country drumming up support for the A.N.C.'s military wing when police swooped down on the top leadership of the anti-apartheid struggle. He spent the next 27 years in exile, working as a propagandist and strategist of the A.N.C. guerrilla army and a conduit of aid and training from Moscow.
        Mr. Slovo was a faithful apologist for the Soviet Union, even when others in the anti-apartheid movement, including his wife, were anxious about Soviet behavior.
        In a recent interview, Mr. Slovo said he began to have deep doubts about his Communist patrons in the 1960's, but suppressed them. For example, he said that to have spoken out against the crushing of dissent in Czechoslovakia would have meant his ostracism from the Communist Party and probably also from the A.N.C., which was equally slavish in defending its Soviet sponsors.
        "The choice that you face is that you either continue to be able to make a contribution to the struggle or not," he says. "Because at that stage, that kind of thing just was not tolerated."
        "I was wrong, and I'm ashamed of some of the traps I was led into," he added, citing specifically his defense of the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
        But he said that given the chance, he would do nothing different, because fealty to Moscow was a prerequisite for leadership in the anti-apartheid struggle.
        "Our minds were completely focused on what our position would be if we cut ourselves off," he said.
        In 1985 Mr. Slovo became the first white member of the A.N.C. National Executive Committee, and the next year he was chosen General Secretary of the Communist Party. He held that post until 1991, when he retired to the more symbolic post of party chairman.
        Although his cancer had already been diagnosed, he was a key strategist among the A.N.C. leaders who prodded the white Government into accepting democracy. Mr. Mandela and others said Mr. Slovo's status as a liberation hero -- his name was given to dozens of squatter camps and black township neighborhoods -- enabled him to counsel compromises that militants in the movement found difficult to accept.
        During his months as a Cabinet Minister, Mr. Slovo was widely praised by voters and the business establishment for his plans to deliver on one of Mr. Mandela's most important campaign promises to the have-nots: the promise to build a million homes in five years.
        An agreement he signed in October with the country's mortgage lenders promised $500 million in new housing loans to residents of black townships. In exchange, the Government agreed to indemnify lenders against the persistent protest culture of payment boycotts and violence.
        For the most destitute of the homeless, who stand no chance of obtaining a commercial loan on any terms, Mr. Slovo earmarked state subsidies that -- pooled in community projects -- were intended to buy a family a plot of land with water, sewer and electricity, and a rudimentary shelter.
        His main battle as Housing Minister has not been with the capitalists, but with people in his own ranks, who contended Mr. Slovo was promising the poor little more than improved squatter camps when they should all get real houses.
        Mr. Slovo derided his critics as "populists" who would bankrupt the fledgling Government for the sake of egalitarian show.
        "I don't see myself as that kind of Communist," he said. "I think the reason socialism collapsed is precisely because of that kind of approach. I fully accept that you cannot build a society purely on the basis of a culture of entitlement."
        In 1982, his wife, Ruth First, a fellow Communist as well as a fellow anti-apartheid campaigner, was killed by a parcel bomb later attributed to the South African security forces.
        He is survived by his second wife, Helen Dolny, and three daughters by his first marriage.
      