
        Brooks Stevens, an industrial designer whose works ranged from corporate logos and clothes dryers to the Oscar Mayer Weinermobile, died on Wednesday in Milwaukee at 83.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son William.
        Mr. Stevens was a founder of the industrial design business in the 1930's, along with men like Raymond Loewy, who designed the Coca-Cola logo and John Vassos, who modernized the exterior appearance of radios.
        Unlike them, he resisted the temptation to move to New York, keeping his business, Brooks Stevens Design Associates, in the Milwaukee area.
        In later years he recalled how difficult it was to persuade companies to pay him to redesign their products during the hard times of the Depression. "I had to fight my way in to talk to anybody in the 30's," he said. "I had to not only justify myself, but justify my profession."
        But gradually he convinced manufacturers to engage his services, often with memorable results. The front fender design he did for the 1949 Harley-Davidson Hydraglide motorcycle is still used by the company in its Heritage Classic series of motorcycles.
        One of his early successes was with a prototype clothes dryer, which had been developed by Hamilton Industries in Two Rivers, Wis. At the time, the only way to dry clothes was to hang them on a line.
        Hamilton's engineers had developed a metal box with an electrically powered rotating drum inside and equipment for gas heating. The device was featureless except for an on/off switch.
        "You can't sell this thing," Mr. Stevens recalled telling the developers. "It's just a sheet metal box." Mr. Stevens suggested putting a glass panel in the front and loading it with the most brightly colored boxer shorts the manufacturer could find for demonstrations in department stores. That is what happened, and modern clothes dryers still follow the same basic layout.
        "He did everything from cigarette lighters to pavement rippers," said Gary Wolfe, curator of the Brooks Stevens Gallery of Industrial Design at the Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design. "His specialty was to make products more user-friendly. He was best at understanding how products were meant to function and modifying them so the customer could use them more easily."
        Mr. Stevens worked for a total of 585 different clients, designing lawn mowers for Briggs & Stratton and Lawn Boy, outboard motors for Evinrude and the civilian Jeepster after World War II.. He designed the corporate logo for Miller beer and persuaded the company to use clear bottles, rather than the traditional brown, to go with its advertising slogan "the champagne of bottled beer."
        Automobiles were a favorite of Mr. Stevens, who both designed and collected them. He designed a two-seat sports car called Excalibur for the ailing Kaiser-Frazier company in 1964, and later formed a company to produce cars bearing that name that had styling vaguely reminiscent of a 1930's Mercedes-Benz. Although they looked exotic, they were thoroughly conventional under the skin and drew mixed reviews.
        "He was a fine industrial designer, but he had quirky ideas about cars," said David E. Davis Jr., editor of Automobile magazine. "He said he was a friend of sports cars, but I said if you have a friend like that, you don't need enemies."
        Mr. Stevens also designed the last prototypes for Studebaker, including a station wagon with a sliding roof to permit hauling tall objects. The cars were never produced, but the prototypes wound up in the Brooks Stevens Car Museum in Mequon, Wis., along with the 75 antique cars he had collected. In 1958, he designed the "Weinermobile," with a giant hot dog replica on the top, for the Oscar Mayer Company.
        Mr. Stevens was born in Milwaukee in 1911 and attended local schools. He contracted polio as a boy and was encouraged by his father to develop his talent for drawing while bedridden.
        He attended Cornell University from 1929 to 1933, studying architecture, but he returned to Milwaukee without graduating because the Depression had put a stop to most building. At the suggestion of his father, who was a vice president of the Cutler-Hammer Company, a producer of industrial equipment in Milwaukee, he opened an office in 1934 as a design consultant. One of his first projects was to design a line of electrical controls for Cutler-Hammer and a corporate logo for the company.
        In 1944, along with Raymond Loewy and eight other men, he helped form the Industrial Designers Society of America, which today has thousands of members.
        Mr. Stevens turned the design company over to his son Kipp in 1979, but continued to speak and teach.
        In addition to Kipp and William, Mr. Stevens is survived by his wife Alice; a son, David; a daughter Sandra A. Stevens, and five grandchildren.
      