
        Catherine H. Sweeney, a patron of the sciences and arts for whom the Sweeney Mountains of Antarctica were named, died on Jan. 25 at the Miami Heart Institute. She was 80 and lived in Coconut Grove, Fla.
        The cause was heart failure, said her son-in-law, Eric Fraunfelter.
        Mrs. Sweeney called herself "just a lady gardener," but her efforts on behalf of botany, exploration, education and the arts earned her such honors as a silver medal from the Massachusetts Horticultural Society and an honorary doctorate from Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa., where she sent eight women from Sri Lanka to be educated at her expense.
        She was also a trustee of the Congressionally chartered National Tropical Botanical Garden, the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Miami, the American Horticultural Society, the World Wildlife Fund and the Conservation Foundation. She was a member-at-large of the Garden Club of America and a founder of the Florida chapter of the Society of Women Geographers.
        Among other enterprises, Mrs. Sweeney rescued and restored the eight-acre estate called The Kampong in Coconut Grove in 1963. She donated the property, the former residence of the plant explorer David Fairchild, to the National Tropical Botanical Garden as a refuge and retreat for horticulturalists.
        After she helped finance the Norwegian explorers Finn and Jackie Ronne in an expedition to Antarctica in the late 1940's, the Ronnes named the Sweeney Mountains in her honor.
        She was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and of the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies in Rye, N.Y., and a life trustee and national board member of the Aspen Music Festival and School in Aspen, Colo.
        Born Catherine Denkmann Hauberg, she was a granddaughter and grandniece of the two brothers who established the company that became the Weyerhauser lumber empire.
        She was a graduate of Dana Hall in Wellesley, Mass., and of the University of Illinois. Her husband, Edward C. Sweeney, a former president of the Explorers Club, died in 1967.
        Mrs. Sweeney is survived by her children, Edward Jr., of Black Forest, Colo.; Philip, of Amherst, Mass.; John, of Aspen, Colo.; Susie Kayyali of Coral Gables, Fla., and Harriet Fraunfelter of Washington; her brother, John Hauberg Jr. of Seattle; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      