
        Robert Mier, a professor of urban planning and public administration at the University of Illinois at Chicago and a leading expert on economic and social issues facing American cities, died on Sunday at his home. He was 52 and lived in Chicago.
        His family said he died of a form of lymphoma that resulted from his exposure to the chemical defoliant Agent Orange during the Vietnam War.
        Mr. Mier's wife, Joan Fitzgerald, said her husband had applied for disability connected with his exposure and had received a letter granting his claim two days before he died.
        Mr. Mier was the architect and chief proponent of Chicago's highly regarded 1984 development plan, which he created as the city's director of economic development. Known as Chicago Works Together, the plan became a national model for other large cities struggling to retain their industrial and economic base while making neighborhoods easier to live in.
        Some of his major accomplishments included a new $175 million public library, an export program for small businesses and a community-based general delivery system. Over all, he led efforts to keep factories open and to help neighborhoods control their own economic development.
        At the University of Chicago, he founded the Center for Urban Economic Development in 1978. During its 17 years, the center has helped communities help themselves with technical assistance and research.
        Mr. Mier also served as a consultant to cities here and abroad. In the wake of the 1992 Los Angeles riots, he was asked by the American Planning Association to conduct seminars for planning directors in Southern California.
        Born in St. Louis, he graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a degree in civil engineering in 1965. He received a doctorate in city and regional planning at Cornell University in 1974.
        He served as a Navy lieutenant in Vietnam, but later resigned his commission because of opposition to the war.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Mier is survived by two sons, Brian and Brendan, both of Chicago; two daughters, Lian Mier, of Huntsville, Ala., and Shelly Fitzgerald, of Chicago; a sister, Nell Newton, of Washington; a brother, Fred Boehm, of St. Louis, and two grandsons.
      