
        Art Taylor, a leading jazz drummer and bandleader who taught or inspired many young musicians, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65.
        Mr. Taylor was a marvel on the bandstand. He swung like a strong breeze and tried to make every performance conversational, pushing and prodding soloists into exchanges, elevating jazz into a fully improvisational art. He was a complete drummer: his brush work was extraordinary in its quiet drive, and he was a master of changing dynamics. In his later years he assimilated the expansiveness of post-be-bop drumming, but he never forgot how to swing a band with his ride cymbal or how to use his intensity and power in a quietly effective way.
        Mr. Taylor's gifts as a musician made him one of the most sought-after drummers in the 1950's. Between Blue Note and Prestige, the two most important independent jazz record labels of the 1950's and early 60's, he recorded roughly 100 sessions. And he recorded or played with some of the great figures of the era, including Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, Bud Powell, Coleman Hawkins, Miles Davis, Thelonious Monk, Buddy DeFranco, Art Farmer, Gene Ammons, George Wallington, Gigi Gryce, Donald Byrd and Sonny Rollins. Along with Art Blakey, Max Roach and Philly Joe Jones in the 1950's, he helped define the sound of modern jazz drumming.
        He can be heard on a number of celebrated albums, including John Coltrane's "Giant Steps," Miles Davis's "Miles Ahead," many of Bud Powell's better sessions for Blue Note and Thelonious Monk's Town Hall recordings.
        Mr. Taylor was born in New York City and as a teen-ager became part of the fertile New York be-bop scene of the late 1940's and early 50's, joining a group that included Sonny Rollins, Jackie McLean and Percy Heath. His first professional work was with the trumpeter Howard McGhee in 1948. Mr. Taylor often transcribed the improvisations of Parker, Powell and Monk and learned much of his music from them.
        Mr. Taylor was an important collaborator, but he also led groups and recorded under his own name during the late 1950's and early 60's, including a fine session for Prestige featuring both Jackie McLean and Charlie Rouse on saxophones. Mr. Taylor also recorded "A.T.'s Delight" for Blue Note, a session that featured Stanley Turrentine on saxophone.
        Disenchanted with the jazz scene and American politics, Mr. Taylor left for Europe in 1963. He lived in France until 1970 and then in Belgium until 1980, when he returned to the United States. While in Europe, he put together "Notes and Tones," a collection of interviews with other musicians in which they expressed concerns about racism, drugs and other issues.
        Mr. Taylor spent the last 10 years of his life in New York. In the late 1980's he began performing more regularly with his band, Taylor's Wailors, which eventually included a number of young musicians, among them the pianists Jacky Terrasson and Marc Cary and the saxophonists Abraham Burton and Willie Williams.
        It is hard to overestimate the importance of Mr. Taylor's band over the last half decade: not only did he hire and train young musicians, but he showed them how to establish a relationship to the audience, using extraordinary small-group arrangements, dynamics and more. He also taught them how to swing, and his performances in Manhattan were regularly attended by other musicians. He helped set the standard for what could be achieved by a small group. Mr. Taylor recorded several albums for Enja and Verve, and had recently finished recording a session with the organist Jimmy Smith.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sylvie Taylor of California.
      