
        Stanley Barrows, an educator and mentor to generations of New York City's top designers, died yesterday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was respiratory failure from complications of pulmonary disease, said Susanna Barrows, Mr. Barrows's niece.
        As director of the interior design department at Parsons School of Design from 1946 to 1968, Mr. Barrows taught the history of interior design from the 17th to 20th centuries to many generations of design students, including Mario Buatta, Thomas Britt, Albert Hadley, Ronald Bricke and the late Angelo Donghia. He taught lessons of harmony, balance and serenity both in the classroom and during the summer European study program, an elective five-month tour of chateaus, museums, cathedrals and private homes in England, France and Italy.
        For many students, the tour was pivotal in their design education.
        "He taught you to see houses and objects," Mr. Buatta recalled. "I came back and reinterpreted these things -- how to cover walls with pictures, how to hang brackets and place furniture in rooms. You came back from Europe and made these ideas your own. But most of all, he helped you find your own way."
        Mr. Barrows was born in Texas, and graduated from Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va., and Parsons in Manhattan. From 1968 to 1985, he was the chairman of the interior design department at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan.
        Last year, even as he struggled with emphysema, Mr. Barrows oversaw the restoration of the Consulate of the Russian Federation in Manhattan. A perfectionist, he had the color combinations of draperies changed three times. He asked that the panels in a ballroom be repainted in a shade of pale almond green that the Russian workers had never heard of.
        Besides his niece, Susanna, of Berkeley, Calif., he is survived by a brother, George Barrows of San Antonio, and a grandniece, Alexandra Barrows, also of Berkeley.
      