
        Alberto Burri, the Italian artist whose abstractions in burlap, plastic, corroded metal and charred wood made him one of the pioneers of postwar European art, died on Monday at Pasteur Hospital in Nice, France. He was 79.
        The cause was respiratory failure, the Italian news agency ANSA reported. Mr. Burri suffered from emphysema.
        Mr. Burri helped to bring Italy out of the provincial cultural milieu that existed after its defeat in World War II into a period of remarkable artistic recovery. Like other members of the postwar generation, he saw creative possibilities in mundane objects, which he sought to combine with the new language of expressive abstraction. Specifically, he built on the achievements of Italian predecessors like Enrico Prampolini, who had earlier experimented with unusual materials, and on the example of Kurt Schwitters, whose collages were made out of throwaway scraps of paper.
        Mr. Burri's originality was in taking what these artists had done in new directions, working on a larger scale than Schwitters and working with substances, like plastic, untried by Prampolini.
        His art was linked with Jean Dubuffet's and the other Art Brut figures in postwar France. Dubuffet possibly influenced Mr. Burri, who saw the Frenchman's iconoclastic paintings when he visited France in 1949. Mr. Burri, in turn, inspired a generation of younger Italian artists who formed the Arte Povera movement in the 1960's and 70's, elaborating on his work with humble and unorthodox materials. Mr. Burri may even have affected American artists like Robert Rauschenberg, who as a young man went to Italy and met him, and whose early paintings, including the all-black ones, have an affinity with Mr. Burri's art.
        Indeed, during the mid-1950's, Mr. Burri became the Italian artist Americans knew best, thanks to several shows in the United States, including one at the Guggenheim Museum in 1953, organized by James Johnson Sweeney. Mr. Sweeney also wrote the first book in English about him.
        Mr. Burri worked in series. One series, "The Sacks," consisted of collages of patched and stitched burlap mounted on stretcher frames. Another, "Hunchbacks," involved paintings bent so that they resembled sculptural reliefs. Still other works used burned plastic, which evoked associations with the human figure, suggesting scars and wounds.
        Mr. Burri was born on March 12, 1915, in Citta di Castello, in Umbria. In 1940, he received a medical degree from Perugia University. He served as a doctor in the Italian Army until his unit was captured in Tunisia by the British in 1943. He was sent to a prisoner-of-war camp in Texas, where he took up painting. He returned to Italy in 1946, and lived in Rome, and the next year, had his first one-man show there. It consisted of still lifes and landscapes.
        Beginning in the late 50's, Mr. Burri experimented with wood and iron, and from the mid-70's on, he painted monumental, brightly colored, hard-edged abstractions on large sheets of particle board.
        Increasingly, he dropped out of the spotlight. Partly this was because he became a reclusive figure, splitting his time between Citta di Castello and Los Angeles, and rarely granting interviews. Four years ago, he settled in Beaulieu, near Nice, and moved between there and Italy.
        Still, his work, especially from the 1950's, was included in many shows, recent among them a retrospective in Milan in 1985, the 1988 Venice Biennale, a survey of 20th-century Italian art in London in 1989 and the overview of Italian postwar art organized last year by the Guggenheim.
      