
        Gerald M. Durrell, a British conservationist and author who is credited with creating a role for zoos in the preservation of endangered species, died on Monday in a hospital in St. Helier on the island of Jersey in the Channel Islands. He was 70 and lived in the town of Trinity, Jersey.
        He died of complications related to a liver transplant he received last year, said Dr. Mary Pearl, executive director of the Wildlife Preservation Trust International, a conservation group that Mr. Durrell founded in 1971.
        "He was the first person to think of the zoo as existing for the animals rather than the people who come to see them," Dr. Pearl said. "That meant two things. First that the animals would have to be treated humanely and with dignity. Second, he was also the first person to suggest that captive breeding of endangered species could play a role in conservation efforts."
        In 1958, Mr. Durrell founded a zoo in Trinity, where he began breeding rare animals for eventual reintroduction into the wild. His captive breeding program, initially denounced by zoologists as unnecessary, has since been acknowledged as a useful tool in efforts to save animals from extinction.
        Mr. Durrell was as well known for his humorously engaging books about animals as for his conservation efforts. Written at the suggestion of his eldest brother, the novelist Lawrence Durrell, Mr. Durrell's first book, "The Overloaded Ark" (Viking, 1953), recounted his adventures while collecting animals in the British Cameroons in West Africa.
        This expedition, at the age of 21, was the first of many zoological expeditions Mr. Durrell conducted in Nigeria, Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, India and the Soviet Union, among other places.
        "Gerry Durrell had an extraordinary ability to capture a child's sense of wonder in adult language," Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington said yesterday. "He had a way of grasping the vivid details of life and he used his humor as the key to peoples' hearts and minds. And the humor didn't distract from the integrity of his passion for conservation."
        Along with his work at the Jersey Zoo and childhood experiences on the Greek island of Corfu, these travels provided the basis for many of Mr. Durrell's 37 books, including the best sellers "My Family and Other Animals" (Viking, 1956), "The Bafut Beagles" (Viking, 1954) and "A Zoo in My Luggage" (Viking, 1960).
        Mr. Durrell's passion for all things animal also inspired his fictional efforts, including the novels "Rosy Is My Relative" (Viking, 1968) and "The Mockery Bird" (Collins, 1981).
        His popularity extended to radio and television, where programs based on his writings and adventures were heard or seen by millions worldwide. He presented 12 television series for the British Broadcasting Corporation, including "The Amateur Naturalist," which featured Mr. Durrell's animal expeditions around the globe. A 12-part adaptation of his autobiographical "My Family and Other Animals" was broadcast in the United States in 1988 by A & E.
        Today the Jersey Zoo is controlled by the Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust. In collaboration with conservationists and governments worldwide, the zoo continues its rare-species breeding program. Another program established there by Mr. Durrell in 1977 has helped educate more than 700 students from 80 countries in animal care, field research and conservation education.
        Gerald Malcolm Durrell was born Jan. 7, 1925, in Jamshedpur, India. After the death of his father, Samuel, in 1928, the family lived in England and Europe before settling in Corfu, where he spent much of his childhood. Educated by private tutors, he became interested in natural history and amassed a private collection of dozens of creatures from scorpions to owls.
        Mr. Durrell received numerous honors for his contributions to conservation efforts, including the Order of the British Empire. He was also a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and the Royal Geographical Society, among other affiliations.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Lee Durrell of Trinity, who has succeeded him as honorary director of the Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust.
      