
        J. William Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat whose powerful mind and eloquent voice helped to rally opposition to the Vietnam War, died at 1:15 this morning at his home here. He was 89.
        The cause of death was a stroke that he suffered three weeks ago, said his wife, Harriet Mayor Fulbright. He had suffered an initial stroke that weakened his right side in 1988 and another, more severe one in 1993.
        A Senator during three decades of cold war and domestic upheaval and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee for 15 years, Mr. Fulbright left a lasting imprint not only on foreign affairs but also on education, as creator of the Fulbright fellowships for international study. His skepticism about the statements of his own Government, stemming from the Gulf of Tonkin incident off Vietnam in 1964, affected a whole generation of Americans.
        Bookish and sometimes supercilious, the antithesis of a "good ol' boy," Mr. Fulbright introduced legislation as a young man that helped pave the way for the establishment of the United Nations. He criticized Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin when few dared to speak out against Communist witch hunts, and he untiringly preached American withdrawal from Vietnam -- in his 1966 book "The Arrogance of Power" and in vivid televised hearings in 1966 and 1967.
        Yet, Mr. Fulbright said in an interview six years ago that he was proudest of his role as legislative father of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
        "If it hadn't been for him I don't think I'd be here today," President Clinton said of Mr. Fulbright. "He made an amazing contribution to the life of our country and, of course, to our home state. He was a great inspiration to thousands and thousands of us who were young when he was a Senator and serving."
        Mr. Clinton worked on the Senator's Washington staff in 1966 and 1967 and followed him to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar. During those years the future President imbibed the fierce antiwar mood of the Fulbright office, and that no doubt influenced his own desire to avoid military service in Southeast Asia.
        For the young Arkansan, Senator Fulbright was also a role model in a deeper, more personal sense.
        "People dumped on our state and said we were all a bunch of back-country hayseeds," Mr. Clinton once recalled. "And we had a guy in the Senate who doubled the I.Q. of any room he entered. It made us feel pretty good, like we might amount to something."
        But the two clashed during Mr. Fulbright's re-election campaign in 1968, according to David Maraniss's new biography of Mr. Clinton, "First in His Class" (Simon and Schuster).
        "They exasperated each other," Mr. Maraniss wrote. "Fulbright exasperated Clinton because he could never win an argument with the old man. Clinton exasperated Fulbright because the young buck would never shut up."
        Perhaps no other 20th-century Senator, with the exception of Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts and Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan, influenced American foreign policy more than Mr. Fulbright. And his influence lasted.
        Like Mr. Clinton, many of the leading figures in the current Administration were shaped by Mr. Fulbright's fierce critiques of American policies abroad, including relations with Western Europe and the Soviet Union as well as Vietnam. Leading journalists and scholars were formed in the same crucible.
        "What was most amazing," said the historian Michael Beschloss, "is the degree to which he was an agitator and critic while standing at the center of the American power structure. That has seldom happened in our history."
        Senator Fulbright had an impact abroad, too. He was one of the few American politicians of his time, other than Presidents, whose name was known around the world. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany, visiting Mr. Clinton today, said the Fulbright fellowships were a welcome signal of reconciliation at the end of World War II. The Senator's name became synonymous, he said, "with openness, with friendship and with people striving together."
        Mr. Fulbright, who served in the Senate from 1945 to 1974, was dedicated to peace and wary of power. And he did not shy from opposition to the White House or to his Senate colleagues.
        He pressed for detente with the Soviet Union throughout his career, but not always with complete consistency. On Oct. 22, 1962, at the height of the Cuban missile crisis, President John F. Kennedy met with senior officials just before going on television to announce his decision to "quarantine" Cuba as a way to stop Soviet ships from reaching the island.
        According to recently declassified audio tapes released to historians, Senator Fulbright berated Kennedy, arguing that the action was too feeble a response and advocating instead an invasion, accompanied by bombing.
        Mr. Fulbright was not without his critics, to put it mildly. President Harry S. Truman once called him "an over-educated Oxford S.O.B." Senator McCarthy dubbed him "Senator Halfbright." President Lyndon B. Johnson said he was "unable to park his bicycle straight." But Senator Frank Church of Idaho said, "When all of us are dead, the only one they'll remember is Bill Fulbright."
        Though internationalist and tolerant in foreign affairs, Mr. Fulbright was a much more typical Southern conservative on domestic issues, including race. He voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. As late as 1975, he opposed civil rights legislation, "first, because I doubted its efficacy; second, because my constituents wouldn't have tolerated it."
        James William Fulbright was born on April 9, 1905, in Sumner, Mo., and grew up on the outskirts of Fayetteville, Ark., the home of the University of Arkansas. His father, Jay Fulbright, was a farmer and wealthy businessman; his mother, the former Roberta Waugh, was an outspoken newspaper columnist.
        An excellent scholar, the future Senator enrolled at the university when he was 15. He became captain of the tennis team, starred as a halfback on the football team and was elected president of the student body. A professor suggested that he apply for a Rhodes Scholarship. He was accepted, and after graduating in 1925 he spent three years studying modern history at Oxford.
        "Oh, God, it was wonderful," he said in 1989 of his days at Oxford. "I used the language in the most primitive manner, as you can imagine; the University of Arkansas in those days was not that impressive."
        Not long after returning to this country, while visiting Washington, Mr. Fulbright met a Philadelphia socialite, Elizabeth Williams. To remain near her, he enrolled in the law school at George Washington University. They were married in 1932, and when Mr. Fulbright received his law degree in 1934 he became an intern in the antitrust division of the Justice Department.
        Mr. Fulbright was only 34 in 1939 when he was named president of the University of Arkansas. Two years later a new Governor, Homer Adkins, persuaded a new board of trustees to seek Mr. Fulbright's resignation. He refused to resign -- to keep his record clear, he said -- and was dismissed on Graduation Day, June 9, 1941.
        The next year, when the district's Congressional seat fell vacant, Mr. Fulbright defeated Mr. Adkins's choice in a campaign that emphasized the need to win World War II and establish a successor to the League of Nations. When Mr. Adkins announced his candidacy for the Senate in 1944, Mr. Fulbright decided to run against him, and easily won a four-way Democratic primary, which at that time meant automatic election.
        In August 1946, President Truman signed the law that created the Fulbright exchange fellowships. In the years since, the number of Americans sent abroad and foreigners brought to the United States to study under the plan has reached almost 250,000, according to Dr. Joseph Duffey, director of the United States Information Agency, which oversees the exchange program,
        In the Senate, Mr. Fulbright viewed the budding cold war between the United States and the Soviet Union as being "like two big dogs clawing on a bone." As the conflict deepened, Mr. Fulbright supported the Truman Administration. He backed United States intervention in Korea in 1950, but by early 1951 he was so troubled by the prospect of a new world war that he called for the withdrawal of American forces.
        Mr. Fulbright was the only Senator to vote in 1954 against financing the McCarthy investigation into reported Communist influence in the Government. And later that year it was Mr. Fulbright who wrote the bill of particulars attached to the censure motion that, in effect, ended McCarthy's career.
        The Senator admired the prudence of President Dwight D. Eisenhower and commended it to his successor, President Kennedy. When Johnson became President in November 1963, Mr. Fulbright privately urged him not to escalate the war in Vietnam but publicly went along with him as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. This led to the episode of which Senator Fulbright was most ashamed.
        In August 1964, the White House announced that North Vietnam had attacked two United States destroyers in the Gulf of Tonkin. At the President's request, Mr.  Fulbright introduced a resolution approving the bombing of North Vietnam in retaliation -- in effect, giving carte blanche to make war. Only Senators Wayne Morse of Oregon and Ernest Gruening of Alaska voted against it.
        Johnson had insisted that the bombing would end the war. As it dragged on, Mr. Fulbright came to believe that he had been deceived. "The biggest lesson I learned from Vietnam," he said later, "is not to trust government statements. I had no idea until then that you could not rely on government statements."
        In March 1974, Dale Bumpers, then the 48-year-old Governor of Arkansas, announced his candidacy for Mr. Fulbright's seat. Avoiding any criticism of the 69-year-old Senator, to the latter's frustration, Mr. Bumpers ran instead on the need for new blood in Washington. Mr. Bumpers won the primary by a margin of about 2 to 1.
        Much later, Mr. Fulbright said in an interview: "I rather think the decision of the voters may have been correct. I got into kind of a rut."
        He stayed in Washington, joining the law firm of Hogan & Hartson, where he became counsel for Japan and the United Arab Emirates. He continued to travel widely and to accumulate foreign decorations, honorary degrees and the Presidential Medal of Freedom. He retired from the law firm last October.
        Mr. Fulbright's first wife died in 1986. In 1990 he married Harriet Mayor, director of the Fulbright Association, a nonprofit organization that serves as an alumni body for the Fulbright scholarships and other exchange programs.
        Besides his wife he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Roberta Fulbright Foote of Coral Gables, Fla., and Elizabeth Fulbright Winnacker of Columbia, Mo.; three stepdaughters, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 18, 1995, Saturday
        The obituary of former Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas on Feb. 10 misidentified the politician who derided him as Senator Halfbright. A reader's letter, initially misdirected at The Times, points out that it was President Harry S. Truman, not Senator Joseph R. McCarthy.
      