
        Robert B. M. Barton, the president of Parker Brothers who first rejected and then acquired the rights to Monopoly, died last Tuesday at his home in Marblehead, Mass. He was 91.
        The cause was old age, said Mr. Barton's son Randolph.
        Mr. Barton was practicing law with his father in Baltimore in 1932 when his father-in-law, George S. Parker, the founder and chairman of Parker Brothers Games, persuaded him to go to Salem, Mass., and run the company, which was struggling.
        Recalling his father's account, Randolph Barton said Charles B. Darrow, the inventor of Monopoly, took the game to Salem in 1934.
        "They sat around in the office, and they played it a little bit with him," Randolph Barton said. "They felt it was terribly complicated and terribly long, and, most important, that the subject matter -- real estate -- was of no interest to anybody.
        "So Darrow took it away and took it to Milton Bradley, and they turned it down, too. Then Darrow went off and had a lot of copies made. He sold most of them to John Wanamaker in Philadelphia. And it made quite a little excitement.
        "People were playing it, and a friend of my mother's living in Philadelphia called her: 'Have your husband and your father seen this marvelous game?'
        "And my father, immediately upon hearing that, said, 'Oh, we'd better look at this thing again.' "
        Early in 1935 the two men signed the agreement that gave Parker Brothers the worldwide rights to the game in exchange for a royalty that Randolph Barton said is being paid to Mr. Darrow's estate to this day.
        In Mr. Barton's years as president of Parker Brothers, the company also acquired rights to such games as Sorry, Clue, Risk, Rook, Pit, Careers, Mille Bornes and Flinch.
        Mr. Barton was president of Parker Brothers until the company was sold to General Mills in 1958, when he retired. Parker Brothers is now owned by Hasbro.
        Mr. Barton, who was born in Pikesville, Md., was a graduate of Exeter Academy, Harvard College and Harvard Law School.
        Besides Randolph, of Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass., Mr. Barton is survived by his wife, the former Sally Parker; son Richard of Bristol, Me.; a daughter, Sally Mann of Seattle; nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      