
        Frank Layton Schaub, a former Florida state prosecutor who drew national attention with two cases he tried in the 1960's, died on Thursday at Cypress Memorial Hospital in Inverness, Fla. A former resident of Bradenton, Fla., he was 73 and had recently lived in Inverness.
        He had suffered from heart problems and cancer for several years, his family said.
        Facing the defense lawyer F. Lee Bailey in 1967, Mr. Schaub won a murder conviction of Dr. Carl A. Coppolino, a former New Jersey anesthesiologist who was accused of killing his first wife and fellow doctor, Carmela Coppolino, at their home on Longboat Key, near Sarasota, a year earlier.
        During a stormy trial, Mr. Schaub asserted that the doctor had injected the victim with a hard-to-trace toxin in order to marry another woman.
        The Florida case, which led to Dr. Coppolino's imprisonment until his parole in 1979, was brought just after his trial and acquittal in Freehold, N.J., in the 1963 death of William E. Farber, a neighbor of Dr. Coppolino's in Middletown Township. Both deaths had originally been attributed to obstruction of the coronary arteries.
        In Mr. Schaub's second celebrated case, in 1968, a jury convicted James J. Richardson, a fruit picker from the Sarasota area, in the death of one of his seven children who died after eating a lunch laced with insecticide. But the verdict was overturned in 1989 with a sharp rebuke to the prosecution.
        Mr. Schaub was found at a judicial hearing to have withheld evidence that could have led to an acquittal and to have allowed witnesses to lie, which resulted in the child's real killer, an elderly nanny, going free.  Mr. Schaub denied wrongdoing, describing the case as "one of the strongest" he had ever presented.
        Mr. Schaub was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., graduated from the University of Idaho after serving in the United States Navy in World War II, and earned his law degree at Stetson College of Law in Florida. He was first elected as a prosecutor in 1960, later served for two terms as a circuit judge and then again prosecuted cases until his retirement in 1989.
        Survivors include his wife, Evelyn; two daughters, Catherine S. Bradshaw of Pensacola, Fla., and Marianne S. Armstrong of Dallas, and three sons, Fred, of St. Petersburg, Fla., Michael, of Holdrege, Neb., and Frank L. Jr., of Tampa, Fla.
      