
        Dr. George Robert Stibitz, whose mathematical calculations and tinkering at the kitchen table led him to invent the first digital computer in 1940, died on Tuesday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 90.
        He had been in declining health for about a year and died of natural causes, said a spokeswoman for Dartmouth College, where Dr. Stibitz was a professor emeritus of physiology at the medical school.
        Dr. Stibitz worked as a research mathematician at the Bell Telephone Laboratories in the 1930's. In 1937, he built a primitive electric contraption that added. It was made of dry-cell batteries, metal strips and flashlight bulbs soldered to wires from two telephone relays. A replica sits in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
        He and a Bell switching engineer, Samuel Williams, then expanded the machine into the closet-size Model I Complex Calculator and put it into routine operation at the beginning of 1940. That version solved problems faster than 100 human operators with mechanical desk calculators.
        Later that year, at a joint meeting of three mathematical societies at Dartmouth, Dr. Stibitz demonstrated what was described as the first remote computer operation. He sent problems by Teletype to a Model I 250 miles away at Bell Labs in New York City and received numerical answers back in Hanover within seconds.
        He worked on increasingly powerful binary computers that were put to military use in World War II. For the duration of the war, he was attached to the Office of National Defense Research.
        Until he joined the Dartmouth faculty in 1964, he was a private consultant in Burlington, Vt., helping businesses and government agencies define and solve various problems. A desk-size electronic digital computer that he developed in 1954 was a forerunner of present-day minicomputers.
        At Dartmouth Medical School, Dr. Stibitz focused on biomedicine, applying computer science to subjects like the movement of oxygen in the lungs, renal exchange, brain cell anatomy, the diffusion of nutrients and drugs in the body, and a mathematical model of capillary transport. He reached emeritus status in 1973, but continued his research at the school for another decade.
        Born in York, Pa., he graduated from Denison University and earned his doctorate in physics at Cornell University in 1930. Besides the patents for his inventions assigned to Bell Labs, he held 38 in his own name, ranging from computer systems to a stereophonic organ.
        Dr. Stibitz is survived by his wife of 64 years, Dorothea Lamson Stibitz; two daughters, Mary Pacifici of Waterford, Conn., and Martha S. Banerjee of New London, N.H.; a brother, Earle, of Carbondale, Ill.; two sisters, Mildred T. Stibitz and Eleanor Billmyer, both of Albany, and a granddaughter.
      