
        Ferrucio Tagliavini, an Italian lyric tenor who was a favorite of Metropolitan Opera audiences in the late 1940's, died on Saturday at his home in Reggio Emilia, Italy. He was 81.
        Aldo Mancusi, the curator of the Enrico Caruso Museum in Brooklyn, who was a friend of Mr. Tagliavini's, said the cause was a heart attack.
        Admired for his honeyed tone, a technique that included gorgeously spun pianissimo lines and a warm, expressive approach to phrasing, Mr. Tagliavini specialized in the popular Puccini leading roles -- Rodolfo in "La Boheme," Pinkerton in "Madama Butterfly" and Cavaradossi in "Tosca" -- as well as in the title role of Mascagni's "Amico Fritz." He was also regarded as an exemplary Donizetti tenor, and appeared regularly as Nemorino in "L'Elisir d'Amore" and as Edgardo in "Lucia di Lammermoor."
        Yet Mr. Tagliavini approached his opera career reluctantly. He was born in Reggio Emilia on Aug. 14, 1913, and as a child studied the violin and sang in a church choir. But although his parents encouraged him to take formal voice lessons, Mr. Tagliavini insisted that music was too unstable a career and studied for an electrician's license instead. It was only after his father dared him to enter a vocal competition in Parma, where he won a scholarship to study at the Parma Conservatory, that he agreed to study. Even then, he continued working as an electrician and took voice lessons in his spare time.
        A second competition victory, at the Florence May Festival in 1938, led to Mr. Tagliavini's professional operatic debut as Rodolfo at the Teatro Communale in Florence the following year. He quickly added Bellini, Donizetti, Mascagni and Massenet roles to his repertory, and made debuts in houses all over Italy, including La Scala in Milan.
        He also began a sideline career as a film star. Between 1941 and 1958 he made a string of Italian comedy films in which he typically played characters who turned out to have remarkable operatic voices. One of these, "Anima e Core" (1951) had an autobiographical twist: Mr. Tagliavini played an electrician.
        After World War II, Mr. Tagliavini toured Italy performing for American soldiers, whose reports brought him to the attention of the American opera world. His recordings, which included a 1942 version of "L'Amico Fritz" conducted by Mascagni, as well as arias by Verdi, Bellini, Cilea and Puccini, seemed to support those early reports. He made his United States debut at the Chicago Opera in October 1946, after a tour of Central and South America.
        When Mr. Tagliavini made his Met debut in "La Boheme," three months later, critics praised his sound and his projection, and noted that every one of his arias was followed by a show-stopping ovation.  By the early 1950's, though, he cut down on his appearances at the Met, preferring to spend his time in Europe.
        His last Met appearances were in 1962, but he returned to New York in the 1970's to sing recitals at Avery Fisher Hall and Carnegie Hall, and for a concert performance of "L'Amico Fritz" in 1981.
        He is survived by his wife, Isabella Stramaglia, and a daughter, Barbara, both of Reggio Emilia.
        Correction:  February 3, 1995, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about an Italian lyric tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera in the late 1940's misspelled his given name. He was Ferruccio Tagliavini.
      