
        Fred Perry, the finest male tennis player in Britain's history and the last British man to win the Wimbledon singles title, died yesterday in Melbourne, Australia. He was 85.
        He had been hospitalized on Sunday after breaking four ribs in a fall at a hotel in Melbourne, where he was providing radio commentary for the BBC at last week's Australian Open, the Australian Associated Press reported. He was released from the hospital but was readmitted after reportedly falling again. No cause of death has been released.
        From 1921 -- the year Wimbledon required its champions to play in all rounds instead of just the final -- until Bjorn Borg's five consecutive titles from 1976 to 1980, Perry was the only man to prevail on the grass courts of Wimbledon three consecutive years. Perry claimed the championship there from 1934 to 1936 without dropping a set. He held the world's top ranking from 1934 to 1936.
        Frederick John Perry was born in Stockport, Cheshire, on May 18, 1909. He already played an invincible brand of table tennis when, at 18, he took up the full-scale version of the sport and quickly proved himself a natural competitor.
        A player for all surfaces, seasons and continents -- adept everywhere it seems, except for the practice court, where he confessed to boredom regardless of the locale -- Perry was the first man to conquer all four Grand Slam tournaments, although he didn't accomplish the feat in a single calendar year. He came closest to a Grand Slam in 1934, when he won at Wimbledon and the United States and Australian titles. His sole French Open crown came in 1935.
        In 1933, Perry became the first British player in 30 years to win a United States Championships title and in the process denied Jack Crawford's calendar-year Grand Slam with a stunning 6-3, 11-13, 4-6, 6-0, 6-1 comeback victory in a match played in gale-force winds.
        Perry also turned the British Davis Cup team into a powerhouse that won the international team competition from 1933 through 1936.
        His 6-4, 4-6, 6-2, 15-13 defeat of the United States' Francis X. Shields in the 1934 Davis Cup championship not only retained the cup for Britain but marked the first time in 21 years that the British team claimed a championship on its home turf at Wimbledon.
        "That last set has taken 20 years off my life," Perry said after staggering away from his epic victory. A master of the passing shot and possessor of a dauntingly crisp, low forehand drive taken on the rise and launchable at full sprint, Perry rebounded from his Davis Cup exhaustion within a month to successfully defend his United States Championships title.
        Then his five-set defeat of Don Budge in the 1936 final of the United States Championships distinguished the Englishman as the first foreign player to claim three United States titles. Always fond of finishing with a flourish, Perry sealed the victory with an ace.
        With eight Grand Slam singles titles to his credit and a hankering to earn some income from the sport, Perry turned professional in 1937.
        The lean, emotive Perry, attractive to spectators and confounding to his opponents whether the venue was amateur or professional, won his final pro title in 1941. The urbane player -- who favored natty cuffed trousers and striped tennis vests -- founded the clothing company Fred Perry Sportswear in 1949.
        He dabbled in journalism for a London newspaper and became a tennis commentator from the radio and television broadcast booth. Perry was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I., in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; his daughter, Penny and his adopted son.
      