
        Howard Geld, known as Howie the Harp to the mentally ill and homeless to whom he committed his life after spending time in institutions for the emotionally disturbed while a teen-ager, died on Feb. 5 at his home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 42.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Steve Coe, executive director of Community Access, a nonprofit housing and advocacy agency for the mentally ill.
        Mr. Geld was widely credited with being a pioneer in advocacy for mental patients, founding or co-founding many organizations that are now part of national and international movements.
        At his death, Mr. Geld was director of advocacy for Community Access. Since taking the job in 1993, Mr. Coe said, he began the New York City Recipients Coalition, a group dedicated to making former mental patients a political force. And he wrote proposals that led to $150,000 in financing from the state and other organizations for the Peer Specialists Training Center to train former patients to help others like them.
        Mr. Geld was born in New York City. He was hospitalized for more than a year at 14 when he tried to commit suicide, his parents said, and spent a year in a school for emotionally disturbed adolescents before returning home. At 17, he ran off to experience life among others like him in single-room-occupancy hotels.
        "I've been diagnosed as a schizophrenic, as psychotic, as manic-depressive and as psychotic depressive," Mr. Geld said later. "I don't really believe in those labels, but there have been times in my life when I went into what can be called a manic episode, and when I went into severe depressions. What I'm doing with my life right now is trying to learn how to control what I call manic energy. If it can be controlled and directed and channeled, it could be really valuable and real powerful. I'd rather learn how to control it, rather than be cured of it."
        While institutionalized, he had trouble sleeping, and a night attendant taught Mr. Geld to play the harmonica. He said he got his nickname, Howie the Harp, when he played his harmonica on the streets of Greenwich Village to earn money for food and a place to sleep.
        Mr. Geld became involved in formal advocacy through the Insane Liberation Front in Oregon in 1971 and returned to New York shortly thereafter to begin the Mental Patients Liberation Project. He also founded or helped found Project Release in New York in 1975 and several advocacy groups in California in the 1980's.
        He is survived by his parents, Rose and Isadore Geld of San Diego, and his sister, Helen Geld of Seattle.
      