
        Marshall Schalk, a geologist known for his studies of the Arctic shoreline of Alaska, died on Tuesday at Cooley Dickenson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. Dr. Schalk, who lived in Northampton, was 87.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for Smith College, where he was professor emeritus of geology. He was hospitalized with pneumonia on Monday.
        Dr. Schalk, who remained an active member of the college community to his death, explored shoreline and beach changes in Arctic Alaska in the 1950's and 60's, making his base at the Naval Arctic Research Laboratory in Point Barrow.
        Born in Boston, he graduated from Harvard College and went on to receive his master's and doctorate degrees in geology from Harvard University.
        For several years, he also worked for private industry in Mexico, Texas and Pennsylvania exploring for copper and petroleum. His interest in shoreline changes and submarine topography dated to the 1930's and 1940's, when he worked at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and on Eleuthera, in the Bahamas.
        In 1941 he was hired as an assistant professor at Smith, where he had previously been an assistant in geology. He advanced to full professor in 1970, after serving two stints as department chairman for a total of nine years.
        During a sabbatical in the 1960's, he was the first Westerner to work at the Ujigawa Hydraulic Laboratory at Kyoto University's Disaster Prevention Research Institute. He also contributed to professional journals and served as a visiting scholar at Wesleyan University, the University of Maine at Orono and American International College.
        He reached emeritus status at Smith in 1972, but kept an office on campus to continue his involvement with students and colleagues. He took part in classes and only last week delivered what turned out to be his final lecture, on global warming.
        Dr. Schalk is survived by a daughter, Dorry Schalk Brown of Newton, Mass.; three sons, John, of Northampton, Ellery, of El Paso, and David, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. His wife of 50 years, Dorothy Stowell Schalk, died in 1983.
      