
        Dr. Li Zhisui, the personal doctor of Mao Zedong whose recently published memoirs portrayed the Chinese leader as a manipulative egomaniac with little tolerance of dissent and a penchant for young women, died Monday at his home in suburban Chicago. He was 75.
        The cause apparently was a heart attack, said Jason Epstein, Dr. Li's editor at Random House.
        Dr. Li was little known outside China until his book, "The Private Life of Chairman Mao: The Memoirs of Mao's Personal Physician," was published in October 1994. The book provided an unusually intimate look at the workings of the upper echelons of the Chinese Government.
        In the book's foreword, Andrew Nathan, professor of political science at Columbia University, said: "No authorized account offers a portrait of Mao that rings as true as Dr. Li's. It is the most revealing book ever published on Mao, perhaps on any dictator in history."
        Dr. Li, who was born in Beijing in 1919, studied medicine during World War II at the West Union University Medical School in Sichuan Province in south-central China. After the Communists took power in China in 1949, Dr. Li was given a job at a special clinic set up to treat China's top leaders. Five years later, he was appointed Mao's personal doctor. He lived with his wife, Lillian Wu, and their two sons in Zhongnanhai, a tightly guarded compound within the Forbidden City in Beijing where China's top leaders lived and worked.
        From then until Mao's death in 1976 -- after which Dr. Li supervised the efforts to preserve the body -- Dr. Li stayed close to Mao. Beyond his duties of a personal doctor, Dr. Li said, he acted as a confidante, accompanying Mao on trips around the country and catering to Mao's frequent late-night summonses.
        Dr. Li wrote that he was initially spellbound by Mao's political acumen. But Dr. Li, who said he had to keep quiet to survive, finally became disillusioned with what he saw as Mao's selfishness and cruelty.
        Dr. Li described Mao as having a craving for young women and fatty pork and a reluctance to bathe or brush his teeth, which Dr. Li said were covered by a green patina.
        Dr. Li came to the United States in 1988 to seek medical treatment for his wife, who died later that year. He then settled in the suburban Chicago area with his two sons.
        Dr. Li is survived by his sons, John and Erchong, both of Carol Stream, Ill.
        Correction:  February 16, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Frederic N. Schwartz, a former chairman and chief executive of the Bristol-Myers Company, named his wife incorrectly. She is the former Eleanor Haley.
      