
        Frederic N. Schwartz, a retired chairman and chief executive of the Bristol-Myers Company, the diversified health care company, died on Monday in New York. He was 88 and lived in New York and had a summer home in the Berkshires.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, a spokesman for the company, now known as Bristol-Myers Squibb, said yesterday.
        Mr. Schwartz was chief executive from 1957 to 1967 as the New York-based company grew from a medium-sized pharmaceutical manufacturer into a multinational health and beauty care products company with 12,000 employees and annual sales that exceeded $400 million by 1967.
        A gregarious onetime salesman who liked to be addressed as Fred by employees, Mr. Schwartz remained on the Bristol-Myers board as executive committee chairman until 1972. In retirement, he continued to go regularly to his office at the company's Park Avenue headquarters until becoming ill last December.
        Mr. Schwartz joined the company's Bristol Laboratories division in 1945 and rose to president of Bristol-Myers in 1957 and chairman in 1964. He was the first head of the company who was not a member of the Bristol family.
        Bristol-Myers acquired the United States rights to the antibiotic penicillin after World War II and used the steady profits from that to develop other drugs and acquire a number of other businesses, including Mead Johnson & Company, which makes infant formula.
        In one of Bristol-Myers's most astute business moves while Mr. Schwartz was chief executive, it bought Clairol, a family-owned hair-coloring company, from the Lawrence M. Gelb family for $15 million in cash in 1959 plus $7.5 million to be paid when certain sales goals were met. Bristol-Myers borrowed the money and spent heavily to advertise Clairol products. Sales rose rapidly, and it was able to repay the loan within six months.
        Richard L. Gelb, chairman of Bristol-Myers Squibb and a son of the Clairol company founder, recalled yesterday that Mr. Schwartz associated his work in pharmaceuticals with "his tough years" as a tuberculosis patient in childhood. Rejected for poor health when he tried to enlist in World War II, he got a civilian job in Washington and helped organize plasma and blood programs for the Army Medical Corps. In recognition, he was given the rank of lieutenant colonel and awarded a Legion of Merit medal.
        Mr. Schwartz was born in 1906 in Springfield, Mass. He was a 1931 graduate of Syracuse University, which later gave him an honorary degree as doctor of laws.
        He was a former director of the American Standard Company and the World Medical Association and a trustee of the Institute of Research at Syracuse University.
        He and his wife of 60 years, the former Elizabeth Staley, were longtime financial supporters of the Clark School for the Deaf in Northampton, Mass. Dennis Gjerdingen, president of Clark, said Mr. Schwartz had been moved by the hearing problems of a sister-in-law.
        Mr. Schwartz is survived by his wife.
      