
        Dr. Robert McC. Netting, who helped establish cultural ecology as a scientific discipline, died on Saturday in Tucson, Ariz., where he was professor of anthropology at the University of Arizona. He was 60.
        The university said the cause was bone-marrow cancer, diagnosed last December, complicated by valley fever, which is endemic in parts of the Southwest.
        Dr. Netting's areas of research ranged from the Kofyar tribe in the mountains of Nigeria to a small community in Switzerland. Cultural ecology, as defined by Dr. Glenn Davis Stone, an anthropologist at Columbia University, delineates the relationship in a society between environment, production and culture.
        Several years ago Dr. Netting told an interviewer: "I want students to be aware of the range of human experience and the systematic and intelligent ways that other groups have used to solve human problems. Other ways of doing things may seem strange and exotic to us, yet they make sense."
        But the way they make sense, he added, "is not always obvious to those of us who see things with cultural blinders."
        In his Nigerian studies he found that despite periodic wars, the chief control of Kofyar population was not combat but land availability. Inhabitants did not marry and bear children unless land became available, as by a death in the family.
        In spite of great cultural differences at the village of Torbel in the Swiss Alps, the same factors helped keep the population stable. In both societies farming was intensive. Crops and livestock were kept in enclosures. Dr. Richard Wilk, a former student and longtime associate who is now an associate professor of anthropology at Indiana University, said Dr. Netting found that everything was done on a small scale, with crops being watered by hand.
        In the Swiss village Dr. Netting had access to family records dating back 350 years. From these he learned, for example, how the average age of marriage and how family life adapted to new ways of farming, like introduction of the potato in the 18th century.
        He argued that worldwide, small farms had succeeded where large-scale agricultural enterprises tended to fail. The most productive farming, he said, is where governments do not intrude in production decisions, the household being the most effective management unit. His methodology became widely imitated and his textbook, "Cultural Ecology," is widely used.
        Robert McCorkle Netting was born in Racine, Wis., and was a summa cum laude graduate of Yale University. He earned his master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Chicago. In 1972, after teaching for nearly 10 years at the University of Pennsylvania, he joined the faculty of the University of Arizona. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1993.
        He is survived by his wife, Rhonda Gillett-Netting, of Tucson; a brother, the Rev. William J., of Quarryville, Pa.; his mother, Martha M. Netting, of Harrisonburg, Va.; and three children from an earlier marriage, Robert F., of Portland, Ore., Jessa F., of San Diego and Laurel M., of Los Angeles. His previous marriage ended in divorce.
      