
        Rowland Watts, a lawyer who spent much of his career fighting on behalf of often-unpopular causes, died on Saturday at his home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 82 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y., until last year.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Watts was a past national secretary and president of the Workers Defense League, a legal-aid group for the poor in Manhattan. He also served as a staff attorney and legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union.
        He defended sharecroppers and farm laborers, conscientious objectors to military conscription, anti-war protesters, illegal immigrants facing deportation, and citizens forbidden to travel abroad without hindrance. In the 1950's, he was in the forefront of a battle against the Army for discharging soldiers it considered security risks without a hearing.
        Mr. Watts, a native of Baltimore, briefly practiced divorce and real-estate law, but in 1938 he became increasingly involved in civil liberties.
        He was active in anti-war politics with the Baltimore Peace Congress. He represented men denied conscientious-objector status and, refusing to be drafted himself, served time in a Quaker camp and as an attendant in a mental hospital.
        After World War II, he became assistant national director of the Workers Defense League, which took up the cause of the Southern Tenant Farmers Union. This led him to travel to the South to investigate working conditions.
        In 1955, he became the first legal director of the A.C.L.U. But he returned to the Workers Defense League in the 1960's as president and continued to work for it as a volunteer lawyer until about 10 years ago.
        He was a graduate of the University of Chicago and the University of Baltimore Law School.
        Mr. Watts is survived by his wife of 52 years, Fay Bennett Watts; a daughter, Linda Watts of Shelburne; two sons, David, of Charlotte, Vt., and Lanny, of Burlington, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      