
        Calder Willingham, the novelist and screenwriter whose first book, "End as a Man," made him a literary star at 24, died on Sunday at the Lakes Region General Hospital in Laconia, N.H. He was 72 and lived in New Hampton, N.H.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son Tom.
        Mr. Willingham was a part of the widely heralded generation of young, salty writers of naturalistic fiction, including Norman Mailer and James Jones, who came to the fore of American literature in the postwar era. Although he published 10 novels between 1947 and 1975, he was probably better known in recent years for his work on screenplays for films including "The Graduate" (1967), "Little Big Man" (1970) and "Rambling Rose" (1991), which he adapted from his 1972 novel of the same title.
        Once described by Mr. Mailer as "a clown with the bite of a ferret," Mr. Willingham specialized in acerbic, comic fiction that shied away from neither sexual explicitness nor Southern Gothic excess. He was born in Atlanta in 1922, grew up in Rome, Ga., and attended the University of Virginia. But it was his earlier experience at the Citadel, the South Carolina military college where he spent a year, that formed the basis for his best seller "End as a Man."
        Published in 1947, this dark study of sadism among students at a Citadel-like institution generated both critical praise and controversy. Charges of obscenity were brought against the book's publisher, Vanguard Press, by the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice. The charges were dismissed, but not before a publicity-garnering trial in which the novelist James T. Farrell described the book as "a powerful, vivid presentation of existing evil."
        The success of "End as a Man," which was turned into a play and a movie in the 1950's, cast a shadow its author never seemed to be able to escape. "Success is always dangerous, and early success is deadly," he said in a 1953 interview. "What I went through writing my second book shouldn't happen to a dog."
        In fact, although Time magazine called Mr. Willingham the "forgotten writer" and "perhaps the outstanding talent" of his generation in 1969, many critics thought he failed to develop his early potential. "I bother critics," he said. "They can't seem to fit me into a neat little category."
        After the stage version of "End as a Man" opened at the Theater de Lys in 1953, Mr. Willingham and his wife, the former Jane Bennett, moved to New Hampton, where he lived until his death. "It's dry, beautifully cold and quiet," he said. "I'm not distracted by other writers."
        Around the same time, he began his association with the movies, which partly accounted for his eight-year hiatus in novel writing, between "To Eat a Peach" (1955) and "Eternal Fire" (1963). His screenplay credits range from Stanley Kubrick's "Paths of Glory" (1957) and Marlon Brando's "One-Eyed Jacks" (1961) to the 1957 adventure epic "The Vikings." He received an Academy Award nomination for his work on "The Graduate."
        "I go to Hollywood purely for the money," he said in 1963. "I do an honest job, but I write to order. It's like being a tailor."
        Mr. Willingham recently completed an original screenplay for Steven Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment. His last book, "The Big Nickel," the story of a novelist paralyzed by early fame, was published in 1975.
        In addition to his son Tom, of Armonk, N.Y., he is survived by his wife; three other sons: Fred, of New Hampton, N.H.; Mark, of Bristol, N.H., and Chris, of Kittery, Me.; two daughters, Pamela and Sara, both of Concord, N.H.; a brother, Warren, of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Francis Todd of Cambridge, Md., and five grandchildren.
      