
        Dr. Robert L. Kaiser, an epidemiologist who helped change the direction of malaria control around the world, died today at his home here. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, where Dr. Kaiser was a leading researcher on tropical diseases for 30 years until his retirement in 1993.
        His work contributed to a shift in strategy on malaria control away from the use of the insecticide DDT to control mosquitoes and toward the use of drug therapy to prevent infection and to treat those already ill with the parasitic disease.
        He recently worked on a program to eradicate the parasitic disease guinea worm. If the program succeeds, the disease would be only the second to be eliminated from the world; the first was smallpox.
        Dr. Kaiser joined the epidemic intelligence service at the C.D.C. in 1959. Four years later, he established the parasitic disease control program at the agency. He demonstrated that parasitic diseases continued to be a threat in the United States as well as in the developing world. He worked with state and local health departments on efforts to combat parasitic diseases in this country.
        In the early 1970's, assessments ofmalaria eradication programs, led by Dr. Kaiser, found that they would not succeed in many countries. By this time, mosquitoes were developing resistance to insecticides, and the malaria organism was becoming resistant to some treatments.
        He served on many committees of the World Health Organization.
        In recent years, he worked on programs to combat schistosomiasis, guinea worm and other parasitic diseases in Africa and Asia.
        He was born in Erie, Pa., and graduated from Brown University. He received his medical degree from Yale University in 1957 and earned another degree, doctor of tropical medicine and hygiene, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in England in 1963. He previously spent a year in clinical practice in Kenya as a medical officer with the British Colonial Service.
        After retiring from the Public Health Service, he became a consultant to Global 2000, a public health program based at the Carter Presidential Center in Atlanta.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; a son, Eric; two daughters, Karen Summerour and Wendy Conroy, and one grandchild.
      