
        James R. Kerr, an executive who helped to lead the Avco Corporation into the conglomerate era, died on Wednesday at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 77 years old.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his son William said.
        During his 12-year tenure as chief executive of Avco, Mr. Kerr broadened the company's focus beyond defense and aerospace, so that it included businesses like motion pictures, life insurance, financial services and land development. Avco, which was founded in 1929 as the Aviation Corporation of America, was sold to Textron Inc. in 1985, four years after Mr. Kerr retired as chairman and chief executive.
        Mr. Kerr, a longtime friend of the late Daniel K. Ludwig, the shipping magnate, became associated with some of Mr. Ludwig's enterprises in 1981. He was president and chairman of National Bulk Carriers and chairman of Universe Tankships until his death. He was also chairman of the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, an international medical research organization.
        Mr. Kerr was born in Las Vegas, N.M., in 1917 and was raised in Alhambra, Calif., where his father owned a freight-forwarding business. He attended Pasadena City College for a short time before going to work for the Bank of America. After being drafted in 1941, he became an officer in the Army Air Corps and remained in the service until 1954.
        Mr. Kerr joined Avco in 1954 as director of its West Coast division and was elected a corporate vice president the next year. He became president in 1960, chief executive in 1969 and chairman in 1974. He remained a member of the board of directors and chairman of the finance committee until 1983.
        While he was head of Avco, Mr. Kerr moved its headquarters from New York City to Greenwich, Conn. But his residence had been in La Jolla since 1963. He commuted regularly to the East Coast and traveled extensively on business. "I find it as easy traveling from the West Coast as New York," he once said.
        During the years that Mr. Kerr was in charge of Avco, he transformed it into one of the first big United States conglomerates -- companies that diversified through acquisitions in a variety of industries -- in an effort to pick up the slack as Government contracts were declining.
        He bought Embassy Pictures, which produced the hit film "The Graduate," and changed its name to Avco Embassy. He bought Carte Blanche, the credit-card company. And he also acquired, and later divested Avco of, many other manufacturing and service companies.
        Mr. Kerr is a former chairman of the Aerospace Industries Association and United Way's board of governors. He was a founder and trustee of Sacred Heart University in Bridgeport, Conn.
        In addition to his son William, of San Diego, Mr. Kerr is survived by his wife of 51 years, Colleen; another son, James Jr., of Del Mar, Calif.; two daughters, Mary Lou Dwyer of Tucson, Ariz., and Cathy Rice of Flagstaff, Ariz.; two brothers, Louis, of La Verne, Calif., and Sheridan, of Manteca, Calif.; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      