
        U Nu, the magnetic but star-crossed Prime Minister who led Burma through 12 of its first 15 years of independence and helped found the nonaligned nations movement, died yesterday at his home in Yangon, formerly Rangoon. He was 87.
        In announcing his death, his family did not disclose the cause, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Nu, who called himself a believer "in democracy and democratic methods," was popular as Prime Minister but was ousted by a military coup in 1962.
        In the decades that followed, while military men maintained a durable and resilient dominance in his country, he called for the return of genuine multiparty democracy and made vain attempts to bring that about. Burma was renamed Myanmar in 1989.
        For some years ending in the 1970's, Mr. Nu was the Thailand-based leader of an armed insurgency at the Thai-Burmese border, which was aimed at overthrowing his homeland's military-controlled Government.
        In 1988, having returned to his country, he proclaimed a largely symbolic provisional opposition government, with himself as Prime Minister, during a nationwide spate of mass pro-democracy demonstrations. But the military reasserted its control and went on to put him under house arrest from December 1989 to April 1992.
        A pious Buddhist and a former schoolteacher, U Nu (both words are pronounced to rhyme with "woo") was prominent in the movement that led to Burma's independence from Britain in 1948. He became Prime Minister just before that, in 1947, and held the office -- with two interruptions and many problems -- until the 1962 coup.
        In the 1950's his party won sizable majorities in two national elections. In 1960, in what turned out to be Burma's last free multiparty elections, his supporters won a solid majority of the seats in the lower house of Parliament.
        In an essay published in 1961, a British historian of Burma, Hugh Tinker, wrote, "The man chiefly responsible for Burma's adherence to democracy is U Nu."
        While Mr. Nu was Prime Minister, his views on nonalignment came to be influential on the world stage. In 1951 he declared, "Burma has no intention of taking sides in the struggle between Communist and anti-Communist forces."
        Maintaining that position, he became a dominant figure at the 1955 conference of newly emergent nations at Bandung, Indonesia, which affirmed five "principles of coexistence."
        In addition, he was one of the five national leaders who brought to life the ensuing movement of countries professing nonalignment. In that cosmopolitan role, he cut a distinctive figure with his round, expressive face and his long Burmese wraparound skirt, called a longyi.
        But in later years he distanced himself from the movement. In 1980 he declared, in reponse to a reporter's questions, that it was no longer truly nonaligned.
        As Prime Minister, Mr. Nu was less distinguished in his administration of many matters within Burma. At the time of the 1962 coup, his Government was generally seen as sluggish and inefficient. And some recent historians of Southeast Asia have given him mixed marks.
        D. R. SarDesai, an authority on South and Southeast Asia at the University of California at Los Angeles, has written that early in Mr. Nu's years as Prime Minister, "his reputation for personal honesty, integrity, devotion to Buddhism and determination to end corruption won him considerable support" from the populace, but his Government was plagued by political factionalism, unsuccessful economic planning, armed conflict with Communists and ethnic minority groups' separatism and revolts.
        In addition, Mr. Nu's day-to-day administrative skills, while he was Prime Minister, have often been called inadequate. He himself once observed, years before the 1962 coup, "I am a dreamer, a writer, slow to go from thought to deed."
        Yet he interwove thoughts and deeds in his years overseeing the insurgency at the Thai-Burmese border. That opportunity arose when he moved on to Thailand after being allowed in 1969 to leave Burma, where he had undergone long periods of imprisonment and house arrest after the coup.
        By 1970, radio broadcasts by Mr. Nu from Thailand were being openly listened to in the tea shops of Mandalay, Burma's second city. Mandalay lies 350 miles north of the capital, which was renamed Yangon in 1989. But his position as a rebel leader declined with time.
        Then, after factional strife, and after the Thai Government told him he would have to leave Thailand, Mr. Nu abandoned the armed struggle against the Burmese Government. He went on to take up residence in the central Indian city of Bhopal in 1974, living largely in seclusion.
        In 1980 he received an invitation to leave India and return to Burma from U Ne Win, who led the 1962 coup as an army general and then became Burma's longtime strongman, holding the title of President from 1974 to 1981. Mr. Nu moved back to his homeland, where he had remained widely respected and popular, and at first he abided by Mr. Ne Win's stipulation that he keep away from politics.
        Then, in March and June 1988, anti-Government demonstrations broke out in Rangoon and elsewhere. Western diplomats in Rangoon said at the time that the protesters were expressing disillusionment with the Government, which had monopolized power and mismanaged the economy. Burma, once a large-scale exporter of rice, had become one of the world's poorest countries by then.
        Months of further turmoil followed, and a broad-based, largely spontaneous protest-movement-turned-popular-uprising spread from students to Buddhist monks to factory and dock workers to civil servants and professional people and even to groups of soldiers.
        In July, Mr. Ne Win resigned as chairman of the governing, mostly military-controlled Burma Socialist Program Party, which had long permeated Burmese life. He announced a referendum on one-party rule. In August, large nationwide street demonstrations put the Government on the retreat, although it retained the loyalty of powerful military commanders.
        And then, late that month, Mr. Nu became the titular leader of a new opposition alliance, the League for Democracy, Peace and Freedom. Soon afterward, on Sept. 9, 1988, he announced the formation of his provisional opposition government. He also called for free elections.
        On Sept. 10, the governing party proclaimed an end to its monopoly of power and called for elections. But mass anti-Government demonstrations continued, and most of the Government had effectively ceased to operate.
        Then, on Sept. 18, Rangoon Radio announced a military takeover -- what David I. Steinberg, an expert on Burma at Georgetown University, has called "a coup staged to support the regime" and "the military's way of reasserting control over an urban population in revolution." The army mounted a crackdown in which as many as 3,000 people are said to have been gunned down in the streets.
        With that, the military regained its authority in the country, which is largely Buddhist and has a population of 40 million in an area almost the size of Texas.
        It was in southern Burma that U Nu was born, in Wakema, a country community where his parents had a drapery store.
        He went on to earn a B.A. in philosophy at the University of Rangoon in 1929. He then was a schoolteacher and headmaster before enrolling as a law student at the university. He became active in the cause of Burmese independence and was expelled from law school in 1936.
        The members of one nationalist group he belonged to used the title thakin (master), usually reserved for the ruling British. And so he was known for years as Thakin Nu.
        During the Japanese occupation of Burma in World War II, he was a minister in a puppet government. After the war ended in 1945 and the British returned to power in Burma, he again attained high legislative and Government posts. When the British Governor chose him to become the equivalent of Prime Minister in 1947, it was in place of another Burmese leader, U Aung San, who had been assassinated.
        Mr. Aung San was at a Cabinet meeting when, as his daughter Daw Aung San Suu Kyi wrote years later, he and several other victims "were assassinated by uniformed men who burst into the unguarded conference chamber with machine guns."
        The assassins escaped, but as Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, a pro-democracy dissident who was awarded the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, wrote, another Burmese political figure was sentenced to death in connection with the killings. "Nu completed the final negotiations" preceding Burmese independence, she wrote, "and the independent Union of Burma was born."
        Mr. Nu's many writings include his autobiography, "U Nu: Saturday's Son" (1975).
        His survivors include a son, Maung Aung, whom Myanmar's official press agency recently called an "anti-Government activist" operating from the Myanmar-Thailand border.
      