
        Dr. Thomas L. Marchioro, a surgeon whose research laid the foundation for the first successful liver transplants, died on Sunday at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle. He was 66 and lived in Bellevue, Wash.
        The cause was complications from heart disease, said the university, where Dr. Marchioro had been a member of the medical faculty since 1967.
        Dr. Thomas E. Starzl, an early transplant surgeon who is now at the University of Pittsburgh, recruited Dr. Marchioro as a member of his research team in Denver in the 1960's. In an interview, Dr. Starzl described Dr. Marchioro as "the main partner in the explosive developments that led to the first real consistent success in kidney transplantation and the first trials in liver transplantation."
        Dr. Marchioro helped refine drug therapy to suppress a transplant patient's immune system, a crucial requirement, and was co-author of a research paper published in 1963 in the journal Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, reporting that rejection of a transplanted kidney could be reversed and that the body seemed to adapt to the new organ to some degree.
        He also carried out fundamental research on how the liver regenerates itself after part of it is removed, and on other aspects of liver function.
        He was born in Spokane, Wash., on Aug. 1, 1928, and grew up in Butte, Mont., the son of a copper miner and his wife. He worked his way through college, attending Colorado College and the University of California at Berkeley before receiving a bachelor's degree from Gonzaga University in Spokane in 1951.
        He received his medical degree from St. Louis University in 1955, and after residencies at several hospitals became chief resident at Colorado General Hospital. He also joined the faculty of the University of Colorado School of Medicine.
        In 1962, Dr. Starzl recruited him as assistant chief of surgery at what was then the Veterans Administration Hospital in Denver, where path-breaking work on organ transplants was getting under way.
        "My feeling is that Tom did not get the recognition he really deserved," Dr. Starzl said. Perhaps one reason, he added, was that Dr. Marchioro left the Denver program in 1967, less than a month before the first successful liver transplant operation.
        He joined the University of Washington's medical school, where he established and led a program that performed the first kidney transplants in the Pacific Northwest. He was appointed professor of surgery in 1969, and was chief of the division of transplantation from 1971 to 1988 and vice chairman of the department of surgery from 1983 to 1991. He began a series of lung transplants at the university's medical center in 1992.
        Dr. Marchioro helped promote organ donations and was a founder of the United Network for Organ Sharing, a national organization that coordinates organ donations. He was president of the Association for Academic Surgery in 1974 and president of the American Society of Transplant Surgeons in 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, Karen, of Bellevue; four sons, Thomas 2d, of Ames, Iowa, Kevin, of Boston, Stephen, of Okinawa, Japan, and Greg, of Woodenville, Wash.; three daughters, Ann Ystad of Fevik, Norway, Kathy Johnston of Redmond, Wash., and Joan Marchioro of Olympia, Wash.; a brother, Robert; two sisters, Clare DeRusla and Phyllis Marchioro, and seven grandchildren.
      