
        Yank Lawson, a jazz trumpeter who was an important member of several popular bands in a career that spanned six decades, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Indianapolis. He was 84 and lived in Indianapolis.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Bill York, a friend.
        Mr. Lawson began playing trumpet as a teen-ager and joined Ben Pollack's band in 1933. When the group broke up the following year, he joined other Pollack alumni in the new Bob Crosby band. He was featured in a smaller Crosby ensemble, the Bob Cats, and on a number of memorable recordings, including "Dogtown Blues" and "Five Point Blues." He left Crosby for a two-year stint with the Tommy Dorsey orchestra, rejoined the Crosby band and briefly played with Benny Goodman.
        He also worked in radio and television and made many recordings, among them a highly regarded version of "Stormy Weather" with Frank Sinatra in 1944. He portrayed the legendary New Orleans trumpeter King Oliver on Louis Armstrong's 1957 recording "Satchmo: A Musical Biography." He toured with his own band in the early 1960's before settling down at Eddie Condon's jazz club in New York City from 1964 to 1966.
        Mr. Lawson, whose original name was John Rhea Lausen, was born in Trenton, Mo., and studied at the University of Missouri. He was taught to play the piano by his mother and then played the saxophone for a time before turning to the trumpet.
        In 1968, Mr. Lawson and the bassist Bob Haggart formed a group called the World's Greatest Jazz Band, which also included, at one time or another, Bud Freeman on tenor saxophone, Bob Wilber on soprano saxophone and clarinet, Billy Butterfield on trumpet and Ralph Sutton on piano. In a review of a smaller edition of the band in 1979, John S. Wilson of The New York Times called Mr. Lawson "one of the great masters of the muted trumpet" who "plays with a mixture of whispering delicacy and exclamatory yawps that sets an easygoing, reflective mood for the group."
        Mr. Lawson was still musically active at his death and had planned to perform in Japan in May.
        He is survived by his wife, Harriet; a son, John; three daughters, Margaret Armont, Elizabeth Burgess and Linda Franke; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      