
        Homer Kripke, a professor emeritus of law at both New York University and the University of San Diego who was an authority on commercial law, accounting and securities regulation, died last Thursday at the Kearney Mesa Convalescent Hospital in San Diego. He was 83 and lived in San Diego.
        The cause of death was complications of diverticulitis and kidney failure, said his wife, the former Ann Ehrenfeld.
        Professor Kripke's scholarship furthered the development of modern consumer credit, commercial financing and accounting.
        He served as assistant solicitor of the Securities and Exchange Commission under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and his books included "The S.E.C. and Corporate Disclosure: Regulation in Search of a Purpose," published in 1979 by Law and Business, a subsidiary of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.
        Professor Kripke worked on the development of the Uniform Commercial Code, a successful effort to unify regulations governing commercial transactions, and was a member of its permanent editorial board. He was also a member of the council of the American Bar Association's section on corporation banking and business law, the S.E.C.'s advisory committee on corporate disclosure and the National Bankruptcy Conference, and a life member of the American Law Institute.
        Professor Kripke, a native of Toledo, Ohio, received bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Michigan in 1930 and 1933, respectively. He practiced law in Toledo and Chicago, then joined the S.E.C. In the mid-1940's, he became assistant general counsel of the C.I.T. Financial Corporation and taught part time at Yale School of Law.
        At the age of 50, he became the Chester A. Rohrlich Professor of Law at New York University, where he taught for 17 years before moving to California and later joining the faculty of the University of San Diego.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Bernard, of Arlington, Va., and Daniel, of San Diego; a daughter, Nanette Kripke of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      