
        Albert Elsen, an art historian at Stanford University and a leading authority on the sculpture of Auguste Rodin, died on Thursday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 67.
        The cause was a heart attack, a university spokesman said.
        In a career that spanned more than four decades, Mr. Elsen was known as an expert on late-19th-century and early-20th-century sculpture and as an outstanding teacher and lecturer. He wrote books on Matisse, Seymour Lipton and Paul Jenkins as well as several on Rodin, and two surveys of modern sculpture.
        His former graduate students include many museum professionals, among them Kirk Varnedoe, chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Varnedoe said Mr. Elsen was central in restoring Rodin's reputation, and cited his 1963 Rodin exhibition at the Modern as the moment the sculptor's work "was annexed into the history of modern art."
        But Mr. Elsen's activities took him far beyond the library and classroom. He contributed frequently to museum exhibitions and catalogues, and served as director of the National Gallery's enormous exhibition "Rodin Rediscovered" in 1981. He was an authority on many facets of the art world, including museum practices, artists' rights, arts legislation, art forgeries and art law.
        With John Merryman, a Stanford law professor, he established the first university course on art law in the early 1970's and also wrote "Laws, Ethics and the Visual Arts." And because of Mr. Elsen, Stanford has not only an extensive collection of outdoor sculpture, but also the second largest collection of works by Rodin in the world.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Elsen was vocal in the heated art world debate on the authenticity of sculptures made from posthumous casts. As president of the College Art Association from 1974 to 1976, he supervised the drafting of a comprehensive "Statement on Standards for Sculptural Reproduction and Preventive Measures to Combat Unethical Casting in Bronze."
        Mr. Elsen was born in New York in 1927 and earned all his degrees -- bachelor's, master's and doctoral -- from Columbia University, where he wrote his dissertation, "Rodin's 'Gates of Hell,' " under the supervision of Meyer Schapiro. After teaching at Carleton College (1952-1958) and Indiana University, he joined the faculty of Stanford University in 1968.
        His first marriage, to Patricia Morgan Kline, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Sharon McClenahan Elsen; a son, Matthew, of Portland, Ore.; two daughters, Nancy McVickar of Tiburon, Calif., and Katherine, of Fairfax, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      