
        Paul Monette, a writer whose autobiography, "Becoming a Man: Half a Life Story," a memoir of suppressing and then celebrating his homosexuality, won the 1992 National Book Award for nonfiction, died at home on Friday. He was 49 and lived in West Hollywood, Calif.
        Elisabeth Nonas, a close friend, said the cause was complications from AIDS.
        For many people, Mr. Monette's memoir and a previous book about nursing a lover who died of AIDS humanized the tragedy of the disease and the torment of denying one's homosexuality, but it also brought to life the rich relationships that some gay men enjoy.
        When he won the National Book Award, Mr. Monette said that writing the autobiography "literally kept me alive" after he contracted AIDS, but he also said he feared it would be his last published work.
        He said the award sent a message that gay and lesbian literature "is significant."
        Mr. Monette was born in Lawrence, Mass., on Oct. 16, 1945. In "Becoming a Man," he described growing up in an ordinary middle-class world in which he became obsessed with his homosexual yearnings but had to suppress them: "Never lost my temper, never raised my voice. A bland insipid smile glazed my face instead, twin to the sexless vanilla of my body."
        Educated at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and at Yale, he taught English at Milton Academy in Milton, Mass., and Pine Manor College, an independent women's college in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He often joked that his background was frighteningly similar to many of the "conservative homophobes" with whom he crossed political swords.
        Mr. Monette publicly acknowledged his homosexuality in 1974, when he met Roger Horwitz, a lawyer, and the two moved to Los Angeles. They lived together for 10 years while Mr. Monette wrote what he described as "glib and silly little novels," many with gay protagonists, including "Taking Care of Mrs. Carrol" and "The Gold Diggers."
        But his life and career changed when Mr. Horwitz died of AIDS in 1985, an experience Mr. Monette chronicled in the best-selling and critically acclaimed "Borrowed Time: An AIDS Memoir" (1988). In a review in The New York Times, William M. Hoffman praised the book, saying, "Mr. Monette has etched a magnificent monument to his lover's bravery, their commitment to each other and the plague of hatred and ignorance they had to endure."
        Mr. Monette wrote another tribute to Mr. Horwitz, a book of poems called "Love Alone: 18 Elegies for Rog" (1987). A few years later, he lost a second companion to AIDS, Stephen F. Kolzak, a casting director for several television shows, including "Cheers" and "Starsky and Hutch."
        After "Borrowed Time," Mr. Monette wrote several novels, all dealing with the devastating effects of AIDS on gay men. "Afterlife" (1990) is the story of three gay men who meet in a hospital as their lovers are dying of AIDS. "Halfway Home" (1991) is about a gay man with AIDS who is reconciled with his older brother, who needs his help.
        Mr. Monette also wrote an episode for the popular television series "Thirtysomething" about an advertising executive who learns he has the AIDS virus. The show, written with Richard Kramer, a producer for the series, was one of the first prime-time network series to deal with AIDS.
        He kept writing until the end. When he was found to have full-blown AIDS two years ago, he wrote his last book, "Last Watch of the Night," while hooked up to three intravenous tubes and taking a mound of oral medications daily. The book is a collection of essays that move through themes from the painful lives of gay priests to the unending bigotry against gay men to the insensitivity of some journalists.
        But "Becoming a Man: Half a Life Story" was by far Mr. Monette's most ambitious and praised work. In a review in The Times, Wendy Martin wrote: "Fiercely committed to bequeathing a map of his psychic terrain, to spare others the pain of his solitary journey, his fine memoir is affirmative and ultimately celebratory."
        In the book, Mr. Monette described the goal of his work: "This is what I am sifting for, to know what a man is finally, no matter the tribe or gender." And he wrote, "I can't conceive the hidden life anymore, don't think of it as life. When you finally come out, there's a pain that stops, and you know it will never hurt like that again, no matter how much you lose or how bad you die."
        Mr. Monette said that the torment of suppressing his sexuality for so long and the inescapable threat of AIDS inspired him to become active in gay politics and to encourage young writers, which he continued whenever his health allowed.
        He is survived by his companion, Winston Wilde; his father, Paul Monette Sr. of Massachusetts, and a brother, Robert, of Doylestown, Pa.
      