
        Robert Bolt, the Academy Award-winning screenwriter and playwright whose works included the films "Lawrence of Arabia" and "Dr. Zhivago" and the play and film "A Man for All Seasons," died on Monday at his home near Petersfield, Hampshire, in southern England. He was 70.
        He had been suffering from heart trouble for some time, said his agent, Tom Erhardt.
        Though he became one of the most successful British writers of his generation, Mr. Bolt, who was born near Manchester in 1924, began his working life as a teacher in a pair of country schools. It was there that he honed his passionate love of history and language and there that his first play was produced, for a Nativity pageant. His next play, the comedy "Flowering Cherry," was performed at the Haymarket Theater in London in 1958 and came to Broadway the next year with Wendy Hiller and Eric Portman in the lead roles.
        By that time, Mr. Bolt was well into writing "A Man For All Seasons," the now-classic exploration of the fatal confrontation between Henry VIII and his Lord Chancellor, Sir Thomas More, over issues of religion, power and conscience. The play, produced in 1961 at the Globe Theater in London, was an instant hit and established Mr. Bolt as a major force in British theater. In 1962, with Paul Scofield as More, it went on to win five Tony Awards on Broadway. The 1966 film version, written by Mr. Bolt and again starring Mr. Scofield, won six Oscars, including the one for best screenplay.
        Despite his success and his political activities, which included a monthlong spell in jail in 1961 after he participated in an antinuclear demonstration, Mr. Bolt resisted attempts to label him one of Britain's Angry Young Men. In truth, he said, he was "anxious rather than angry."
        It was with the director David Lean, during what is now considered British cinema's golden age, that Mr. Bolt collaborated to produce two famous epic films: "Lawrence of Arabia," in 1962, starring Peter O'Toole, and "Dr. Zhivago," two years later, starring Omar Sharif and Julie Christie.
        "Lean relied very much on Bolt for the scripts for his films," Adrian Wootton, controller of the British Film Institute at South Bank in London, told the British Press Association. "Without him, I don't believe 'Lawrence of Arabia' or 'Doctor Zhivago' would have been the great films they are." "Dr. Zhivago" brought Mr. Bolt his second Academy Award. He received an Oscar nomination for "Lawrence of Arabia."
        The Bolt-Lean team also produced "Ryan's Daughter," a 1970 film that starred Mr. Bolt's on-again, off-again wife, the actress Sarah Miles.
        In 1978, he suffered a severe stroke that left him partly paralyzed and forced him to relearn many of the things essential to his work, like speaking and writing. But he quit his old ways -- a taste for wine and whisky and a smoking habit that had reached 80 cigarettes a day -- saying later that "I decided I just couldn't face the wall and die." And he continued working.
        Mr. Bolt's last credited screenplay was for the 1986 film "The Mission," directed by Roland Joffe, which he also wrote as a novel; the film starred Jeremy Irons and Robert De Niro. At the time of his death he was in the midst of adapting Jung Chang's novel "Wild Swans," a memoir about life in a changing China, for BBC television, and had also recently reworked "The Thwarting of Baron Bollingrew," a children's play he wrote in 1966, into a novel for children.
        Mr. Bolt was married to three women, including Miss Miles, whom he married twice. In 1949, he married his first wife, Celia Roberts, a painter. They divorced 18 years later, and he married Miss Miles. He and Miss Miles separated in 1975, and he married the actress Anne Zane. When that marriage collapsed, he secretly remarried Miss Miles, who had nursed him through much of his illness. She was with him when he died.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four children.
      