
        David L. Norman, a chief of the Justice Department's civil rights division in the Nixon Administration and a Superior Court judge in Washington until his retirement in 1983, died on Monday at the Washington Home and Hospice. He was 70 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was pneumonia, the hospice said.
        Mr. Norman, joined the Justice Department in 1956 fresh out of law school. He went into the civil rights division when it was created by President Dwight D. Eisenhower the next year.
        He became chief of the division in 1971 in President Richard M. Nixon's first term. In a shake-up of top department officials after Mr. Nixon's re-election, Mr. Norman resigned and in 1973 was appointed to the Superior Court.
        In the Justice Department, Mr. Norman was involved in many civil rights issues, including cases of school desegregation and voting rights in the South.
        In the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations he helped create detailed studies of voting records that the department used to prove charges of racial discrimination. He was also credited with developing a legal theory that blocked Southern voter registrars from holding potential black voters to a higher standard than whites.
        In 1970, when he was deputy chief of the civil rights division, Mr. Norman was one of five winners of the Rockefeller Public Service Awards given annually by the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University.
        Later, Mr. Norman found himself in the middle of a protracted dispute, caught between civil rights advocates demanding a more aggressive stance in rights cases and senior Nixon Administration officials who wanted a less militant position.
        Later, , Mr. Norman was known as an unorthodox judge who declared the District of Columbia's marijuana laws unconstitutional and ruled that punitive laws against homosexuals were discriminatory.
        Born in Stromsberg, Neb., he severely injured his eyes as a boy, when he peered at a partial eclipse of the sun. But he went on to become a summa cum laude graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and third in his graduating class at the university's law school.
        Mr. Norman is survived by his companion, Monica Gallagher of Washington; a daughter from a marriage that ended in divorce, Nancy Davies of Manhattan; five sisters, and two brothers.
      