
        Dr. Fritz Friedrich Fuchs, a New York obstetrician and gynecologist who advanced the knowledge and treatment of the female reproductive system, died on Feb. 17 at a hospital in Hamburg, Germany. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan.
        A spokeswoman for Cornell University Medical College, where he performed much of his research, said the cause was a stroke. He was in Germany accompanying his wife, Dr. Anna-Riitta Olsson Fuchs, a chemist who frequently collaborated with her husband, on her sabbatical from Cornell at the University of Hamburg's Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research.
        Dr. Fuchs was noted for his research on the endocrinology and physiology of human reproduction. Endocrinology is the study of the form, function and treatment of the endocrine system, the network of glands that secrete hormones that affect the workings of organs.
        He was best known for developing an effective intravenous agent to prevent premature labor and for his pioneering work with amniocentesis to detect fetal genetic disorders. He also helped introduce the laparoscope for routine use in gynecological practice in this country. The laparoscope is a tube that can be inserted through a small incision to view the internal organs or do surgery.
        He was born in Frederiksberg, Denmark, and studied medicine in Copenhagen and Stockholm. In World War II, he served with the Allies in Europe as a medical officer in the Danish Brigade and completed his training in surgery at hospitals in Denmark.
        In 1950, he and his Finnish-born wife came to the United States as fellows in the embryology department of the Carnegie Institution.
        Dr. Fuchs and a Danish colleague, Povl Riis, reported in 1960 that they had successfully performed amniocentesis to diagnose male fetuses at risk for hemophilia and muscular dystrophy. In that procedure, a small amount of the fluid from the pregnant womb is tested for serious fetal disorders like Down syndrome, Tay-Sachs disease or spina bifida.
        In 1965, Dr. Fuchs became the Given Foundation Professor and chairman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Cornell University Medical College as well as obstetrician and gynecologist in chief at New York Hospital. He later served as Uris Professor of Reproductive Biology, reaching emeritus status in 1980, though he continued his work after that.
        During his tenure, he established the New York-Cornell amniocentesis laboratory. At the time, the procedure was becoming fully established in this country and Europe, helping to determine chromosomal and metabolic aberrations.
        He took an interest in the mechanism of labor and the prevention of premature labor and delivery. His wife's discovery in the 1960's that alcohol inhibited labor in rabbits led him to devise a related technique for women.
        When his wife went into labor in her seventh month in 1964, he repeatedly dripped an alcohol solution into her veins. The contractions stopped, and the baby was carried to term. He similarly succeeded with many other women whose waters had not yet broken and, with continuing research, helped to develop the treatments in use today.
        He was the author or co-author of some 200 papers and co-editor of two books. Many of the papers were written with his wife of 47 years, a professor of reproductive biology at Cornell Medical School.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Anneli Fuchs of Copenhagen; three sons, Martin, of Boston, Peter, of Tokyo, and Lars, of Hong Kong; a brother, Hans, also of Copenhagen, and five grandchildren.
      