
        John Melser, an innovative educator and retired principal of an alternative elementary public school in Greenwich Village, died on Friday at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 73.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        He was the head teacher and principal of Public School 3 on Hudson Street, between Grove and Christopher Streets, from its beginning in the fall of 1971 until his retirement in 1990. One of the first alternative elementary schools in the public-school system, it achieved national recognition for its fresh approach to open classrooms, mixed grades, whole-language instruction with books rather than primers, and an emphasis on arts as an integral part of education.
        John Daniel Frederick Melser, who was born in England, was raised in New Zealand and graduated from the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand. He started a career as an elementary-school teacher but soon began to teach future teachers as well.
        He headed the English department at Ardmore Teachers College before going to work for the New Zealand Ministry of Education, where he became editor of school publications. In 1966, he was sent to Trinidad and Tobago to set up a publication unit and to develop school texts for it.
        He came to New York in 1970 and taught at Hunter College and the Bank Street College of Education when a group of Greenwich Village parents engaged him to organize an alternative school for them. In its early days, P.S. 3 lay outside the jurisdiction of the city's Board of Education. He hired the staff and assumed the title of head teacher. The school still is known for a high degree of parental involvement in its programs.
        It draws visitors and student teachers from the United States and abroad who observe the workings of its open education. Mr. Melser traveled widely to discuss his ideas on the approach and worked with training programs for teachers and principals at Bank Street, City College and Queens College.
        Mr. Melser is survived by his wife, Nancy; four sons, Peter, of Sydney, Australia, and Derek, Paul and Jeremy, all of Masterton, New Zealand; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Weisman of Boston and Tanya Weisman of Brooklyn, and eight grandchildren.
      