
        Max Rudolf, a conductor and teacher who played a big part in the training and guidance of two generations of American conductors, died on Tuesday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 92.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Along with his colleagues Erich Leinsdorf, George Szell and Fritz Reiner, Mr. Rudolf brought a broad European education and sensibility to a New World environment. He was music director of the Cincinnati Symphony from 1958 until 1970. He recorded frequently and was a guest conductor with most of this country's major orchestras. At various times he advised the symphonies of Dallas, Detroit and New Jersey.  Opera was a specialty, especially the Mozart and bel canto repertory.
        But it is through his teaching -- and especially his long, if intermittent association with the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia -- that he will probably be best remembered. Mr. Rudolf headed the conducting and opera programs at Curtis from 1970 to 1973 and lived the rest of his life in an apartment opposite the school. He rejoined the faculty in 1983 and was an emeritus member until his death.
        His book "The Grammar of Conducting" has been an influential text since 1950, and many of his students have gone on to successful careers. One of the more notable was the late Calvin Simmons.
        Max Rudolf was born in Frankfurt am Main in 1902. He learned four instruments as a boy, and began composing at 12. From 1915 to 1922 he studied composition with Bernhard Sekles, the teacher of Paul Hindemith, but then gave up composing in order to conduct opera. This he did mostly in Darmstadt before leaving Germany in 1929. For the next six years Mr. Rudolf was the associate of George Szell, then the music director of the German Opera in Prague. For five subsequent years he conducted opera and various orchestras and choruses in Gothenburg, Sweden.
        He moved to the United States in 1940, worked in relative obscurity in Chicago for two years and then came to New York, where Edward Johnson invited him to join the staff of the Metropolitan Opera. Named the house's musical administrator by Rudolf Bing in 1950, Mr. Rudolf was Mr. Bing's close adviser for the next eight years. He became an American citizen in 1945.
        Mr. Rudolf was a major influence in the successful Exxon Affiliate Artists programs establishing apprenticeships for young conductors at major orchestras. He said he owed his own abilities not to any school or conservatory but to the old network of small German and Austrian opera houses at which beginners learned by doing. For his efforts, the National Conference of Conductors gave Mr. Rudolf its first Theodore Thomas Award in 1988.
        In retirement, Mr. Rudolf counseled his old pupils, many in high positions, read widely and corresponded with musicians and musicologists. He contributed articles and letters to many publications, and relished a good argument over stylistic correctness or points of fact.
        He is survived by his wife, Liese; a son, William; a daughter, Marianne; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      