
        Eugenio Perente-Ramos, an organizer of migrant and seasonal laborers who founded the Eastern Farm Workers Association on Long Island and was a close associate of Cesar Chavez in the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee, died at his home in Brooklyn on Saturday. He was 59.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Dan Fiske, a friend and fellow organizer.
        In 37 years as an organizer, Mr. Perente-Ramos signed up machinists, miners and aerospace workers from New York to Texas and California. But his principal efforts were on behalf of those lowest on the economic ladder and hardest to organize: migrant and seasonal farm workers, domestic help and temporary and part-time workers unprotected by minimum-wage and other Federal labor laws.
        Born in 1935 on a rented farm near Butte, Mont., the son of a domestic worker and a man active in the Industrial Workers of the World, Mr. Perente-Ramos trained as a machinist but went to work for the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee in the 1950's. Later, he helped organize 50,000 machinists and other workers at Boeing, Lockheed and other aerospace companies.
        In the 1960's, when his group merged with Mr. Chavez's National Farm Workers Association, he became a member of the general executive board of the United Farm Workers under Mr. Chavez and helped organize farm workers in California and Texas. He also was chairman of the Chavez-for-Governor Committee in California.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Perente-Ramos founded the Eastern Farm Workers Association and led 800 migrant and seasonal workers in a strike against potato processers in Suffolk County. It was the first successful drive -- after many failures -- to organize farm workers east of the Mississippi, Mr. Fiske said. The group now represents 10,000 workers on Long Island, he said.
        Mr. Perente-Ramos, who left no survivors, lectured often on labor organizing and was the author of "The Essential Organizer," a 1973 book detailing his theory of systemic organization, in which permanent cadres of volunteers, and not leaders with short-lived charisma, are relied upon to conduct boycotts and other long-term activities on behalf of labor.
        Correction:  March 21, 1995, Tuesday
        An obituary of Eugenio Perente-Ramos yesterday gave an incomplete and partly inaccurate account of his activities and life. The article noted that he was an organizer of migrant and seasonal labor, but information from his associates omitted the fact that he was also the leader of a group that has been characterized as a cult. A corrected version, with fuller accounts by cult experts, parents of followers and a former wife of Mr. Perente-Ramos, appears today on page D20.
      