
        Victor Dorman, who helped change the way Americans buy cheese by putting "the Paper Between the Slices" as chairman of the Dorman Cheese Company, died on March 4 at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was heart failure related to muscular dystrophy, his son, Neil, said.
        A native of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, Mr. Dorman graduated from New Utrecht High School then earned a bachelor's degree in business administration at New York University in the mid-1930's. During World War II, he served as an ensign in the Navy aboard a submarine chaser in the Pacific.
        The cheese company had been founded by Mr. Dorman's father, Nathan, an immigrant from Lithuania who began delivering cheese in Manhattan by horse-drawn wagon in 1896. By the time the company was sold to the Beatrice Foods conglomerate in 1986, it had its headquarters in Syosset, L.I., a packaging plant in Monroe, Wisc., and distribution centers in Florida.
        For decades, the company was a family-managed business, specializing in the sale of large quantities of such varieties as Swiss, Muenster, Edam, mozzarella, provolone, Jarlsberg and Gouda.
        Until the late 1940's, cheese had been sold in bulk and sliced in grocery stores. "With the advent of supermarkets and self-service, there was a need for packaged product with a longer shelf life," said Neil Dorman, who served as vice president for administration and finance. "My understanding is that Kraft introduced a package of sliced cheese but, at the time, the packages were not vacuum-packed, so air could get in and the shelf life was not that long."
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Dorman said, the Standard Packaging Machine Company introduced the Flexvac 6-9, a machine that not only pulled the air out of the package, but inserted a minute amount of nitrogen, "so that the package wouldn't shrivel as you sucked out the air, and there was no longer a problem of mold growth."
        At the same time, the United States Slicing Machine Company developed the interleaver -- a machine that cut a slice of cheese, placed it on a conveyer belt and then, with mechanical fingers, laid down "what we called parchment -- some kind of paper," Mr. Dorman said.
        "My father and his brother, Louis, were the first to do that," he said. "They did it first with Muenster, because it tends to stick together."
        Although other companies could, and eventually did, use the same packaging technique, Dorman became famous for its registered trademark slogan: "The Cheese With the Paper Between the Slices."
        Besides his son, who lives in Sands Point, L.I., Mr. Dorman is survived by his daughter, Marjorie of North Hills, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      