
        Melvin A. Glasser, a former director of the Health Security Action Council who supervised the medical field trials for the anti-polio Salk vaccine, died on Monday at Washington Home in Washington. He was 79.
        Mr. Glasser, who lived in Washington, suffered a long illness, his family said.
        In 1954 he became assistant to the president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, which conducted the field tests that proved the Salk vaccine to be a safe and effective way to prevent polio. Later, as executive vice president, he supervised the studies that prompted the foundation to broaden its scope beyond poliomyelitis and to change its name to the National Foundation and, later, the March of Dimes.
        In 1963 Mr. Glasser was named director of the United Automobile Workers' social security department in Detroit, a position he held for 18 years and from which he called for a national health care plan.
        In 1981, after leaving Detroit, he joined the Health Security Action Council, a Washington-based, consumer-oriented health-policy organization with ties to the U.A.W. He retired last year.
        Mr. Glasser was a leading figure at national and international conferences dealing with social issues and the well-being of children. He prepared the Mid-Century White House Conference on Children and Youth in 1950 for President Harry S. Truman, and followed up at the Children's Bureau of the Federal Security Administration.
        In 1960 he was chairman of the White House Conference for Youth, which asked President Dwight D. Eisenhower to speed the desegregation of public schools.
        Mr. Glasser was born in the Bronx, received a bachelor's degree from City College and a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work.
        In World War II and for a few years after the war he worked for the American Red Cross in Washington as director of international activities, and helped organize relief programs for Europe.
        He was a past chairman of Tuskegee University in Alabama and held adjunct faculty posts at Yale University's School of Medicine and the University of Michigan's School of Public Health.
        Mr. Glasser is survived by his wife, Esther; a son, Stephen, of Montclair, N.J.; two daughters, Amy Corey of Seattle and Robin Hudson of Atlanta, and seven grandchildren.
      