
        Sidney Kingsley, who brought the gritty drama of mean city streets into the theater in plays including "Dead End" and "Detective Story" and who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1933 for his first Broadway play, "Men in White," died yesterday at his home in Oakland, N.J. He was 88.
        The cause was a stroke, said his secretary, Maureen Lake.
        Mr. Kingsley's forte was the realistic and trenchant examination of major contemporary issues. In "Men in White," he explored the conflict between physicians' professional and family obligations, while "Dead End" (1935) looked at slum life as a breeding ground for criminals. "Detective Story" (1949) was set in a police station and included among its cast of characters petty thieves, a drug addict and a female shoplifter.
        "The Patriots" (1943), written during World War II when the survival of the Western democracies seemed to be in jeopardy, upheld Thomas Jefferson's abiding faith in the common man over Alexander Hamilton's belief in government by the privileged. "Darkness at Noon" (1951) dramatized the Arthur Koestler novel about the horrors of Stalin's purge trials.
        Mr. Kingsley was a contemplative and soft-spoken man with a wide range of interests, including painting, sculpture, woodworking, tree surgery and the collecting of early Americana. In 1935 he bought a farm in Oakland with an 18th-century clapboard house shaded by rolling hills overlooking the Ramapo River. His wife, the actress Madge Evans, lived with him on the 250-acre estate from their marriage in 1939 until she died of cancer in 1981. No immediate family members survive.
        Miss Evans had been a child star in early silent films made in Fort Lee, N.J., and it was partly in tribute to her that Mr. Kingsley became the founding chairman of New Jersey's Motion Picture and Television Development Commission in 1977, charged with luring movie makers to the state.
        In shaping his plays, Mr. Kingsley spent many hours writing and rewriting. Yet, from 1933 to 1962, only 10 were produced. He was proud of never returning to a subject.
        Most of his works were hits, but there were a few misses. These included "10 Million Ghosts" (1936), an ambitious but unwieldy denunciation of munitions merchants, and "Night Life" (1962), an experimental, lurid dissection of an after-hours key club. He had greater success with "The World We Make" (1939), a stirring study of a young woman's descent into madness and return to sanity, and "Lunatics and Lovers" (1954), his only sex farce.
        Detractors assailed Kingsley plays as sentimental, simplistic and too melodramatic in stressing plot over characterization. Yet works like "Men in White" and "Detective Story" are progenitors of virtually every hospital and police station drama produced since he originated them, imitated again and again over the years by scores of television and film writers.
        Mr. Kingsley had a dominant role in all aspects of his plays, directing nearly all of them and producing several. He leavened them with a wide variety of characters to achieve a quality he called "magic realism." In "Detective Story," in which the private agony of a detective colors his professional judgment, he made vigorous use of no fewer than 34 characters, surrounding the core of the high-tension plot in a station house with clamorous, believable street people.
        The stage production starred Ralph Bellamy, Maureen Stapleton and Lee Grant. The 1951 film version, directed by William Wyler, starred Kirk Douglas and Eleanor Parker as the detective and his wife. Lee Grant repeated her role in the movie, which also featured a chilling performance by Joseph Wiseman as the murderous addict.
        To bring authenticity and immediacy to the Broadway production of "Dead End," Mr. Kingsley used the orchestra pit of the Belasco Theater as the East River. The staging made it seem as if the play's tough young street kids were diving into the river to cool off.
        There was no water in the pit, Mr. Kingsley emphasized in an interview in the Dramatists Guild Quarterly in the fall of 1984. "That would have been disastrous," he said. "The theater was drafty; the kids would inevitably have come down with pneumonia. They simply leaped into a net in the pit. Once they jumped, the assistant stage manager threw a geyser of water up in the air, representing the splash. He then rubbed them down with oil, and they came out glistening as if they were wet, but actually the oil protected them from the chill. We also fed them daily with vitamins."
        The young stars of the play, who included Billy Halop, Huntz Hall, Leo Gorcey and Gabriel Dell, appeared with Joel McCrea, Sylvia Sydney and Humphrey Bogart in the 1937 film version and went on to win fame as the Dead End Kids. Fans of "Dead End" included Senator Robert F. Wagner Sr., Democrat of New York, who credited the work with having had a major impact in speeding slum clearance.
        In an interview with the playwrights Ruth Goetz and John Guare, Mr. Kingsley recalled how he came to write "Men in White": "My best friend was a young intern, and I would socialize with him and the young nurses, and hang around the hospital, fascinated by its color and the often cynical contrast between the daily matter-of-fact routine of the interns and the life-and-death value of their world."
        Some of his material led him to take controversial positions. In researching the play, he said, he was appalled by a young woman's death from an abortion, and in the script he proselytized for legalizing the procedure. "At that time," he said, "there were millions of illegal abortions in the United States, and God knows how many women died because they weren't operated on with proper medical care."
        In preparing "The Patriots," he was most impressed by a belief repeatedly stressed by Jefferson that "each generation has to make the country over again," that "a democracy must always be working out its destiny," that "you can't just set it in place and let it go."
        Generalizing, Mr. Kingsley said: "In all my plays I search for those elements of reality that have a poetic or dream quality. The experience of watching the preparations for a major operation was so surreal and ritualistic, so like a strange ballet, it inevitably found its way into the climactic scene of 'Men in White' as, in fact, a balletic scene."
        Mr. Kingsley, whose original name was Sidney Kirshner, was born in Manhattan on Oct. 18, 1906. He attended public schools on the lower West Side, Townsend Harris High School and Cornell University on a scholarship, and began writing one-act plays.
        He earned a B.A. degree from Cornell in 1928 and tried acting for four months with a stock company in the Tremont section of the Bronx. Then, for several years, he was a play reader for the Brandt brothers in New York and a scenario reader for Columbia Pictures in Hollywood while he continued working on plays.
        For more than three years, he wrote and rewrote the play that eventually became "Men in White." After a series of setbacks, it opened on Sept. 26, 1933, co-sponsored by the experimental Group Theater, and was hailed by audiences and most reviewers. Its winning of the Pulitzer Prize created a stir when it became known that the three-member Pulitzer drama jury had unanimously recommended not "Men in White" but "Mary of Scotland," a verse play by Maxwell Anderson. The jurors were overruled by the advisory board of the Columbia University School of Journalism, which grants the prizes.
        "Men in White" was made into a popular film starring Clark Gable and Myrna Loy and won increased fame on stages in London and the Continent, setting a pattern of repeated overseas popularity for Kingsley plays.
        Mr. Kingsley was unstinting in aiding his associates, as a president of the Dramatists Guild and a longtime member of award and assistance panels. He also strengthened Off Off Broadway as a board member of Cafe La Mama and bolstered modern dance as a board member of the Martha Graham company. In World War II he served in the Army, rising to lieutenant.
        As a playwright, he was noted for exhaustively researching material. He also experimented with detailed scale models of sets, props and player cutouts and recorded segments of dialogue. In readying "Detective Story," he spent 18 months observing activity in Manhattan police squad rooms.
        Asked when he made the final revisions in a script, he replied, "When the curtain goes down on opening night."
      