
        William Joseph Cotter, a retired official of the Central Intelligence Agency and chief inspector of the United States Postal Service, died on Wednesday at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 74.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Cotter came to national attention in 1975 in Congressional hearings over illegal surveillance of mail by the C.I.A., a practice he had managed to stop two years earlier.
        After retiring from the Government later that year, he became a vice president of the Bunge Corporation, a grain exporter in St. Louis, and served until 1986, when he retired.
        Mr. Cotter became a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent in 1947 and joined the C.I.A. in 1951, serving as a security officer in Washington and overseas.
        In 1969, on the recommendation of the Director of Central Intelligence, Richard M. Helms, Postmaster General Winton M. Blount put Mr. Cotter in charge of the Postal Inspection Service. The job produced several challenges for Mr. Cotter, including stopping the C.I.A.'s surveillance of mail between the United States and Communist countries, a practice since 1953.
        Mr. Cotter testified in 1975 that thousands of mail surveillances had been legally obtained by local, state and Federal agencies. Beyond that, he reported, the C.I.A. had illegally opened, read and photographed some correspondence for 20 years. It developed that he had learned of the operation in the C.I.A., tried to stop it after he joined the Postal Service, but did not succeed until 1973.
        Having suffered a heart attack shortly before testifying in 1975, he took early retirement later that year and joined Bunge, retiring from there after 10 years.
        Mr. Cotter was born in Bayonne, N.J., and was an accounting graduate of Baruch College of the City University of New York. He also held a law degree from New York University.
        Mr. Cotter is survived by his wife of 28 years, Almedia Jo Ford Cotter; two sons, William J. Jr., of Cincinnati, and Christopher M., of Fairfax; two daughters, Alicia C. Wilson of Great Falls, Va., and Kathleen C. Walker of Fairfax; a sister, Virginia Kober of Staten Island, and six grandchildren. His first wife, Virginia McMahon Cotter, died in 1962.
      