
        Alwin Max Pappenheimer Jr., a biochemist and immunologist at Harvard University who helped to unlock the secrets of bacterial toxins, died on Tuesday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. A longtime resident of Cambridge, he was 86 and for the last several years had lived in Watertown, Mass.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Pappenheimer, who came from a family distinguished in medical research, isolated the diphtheria toxin in pure crystalline form as the senior chemist at the Massachusetts State Antitoxin and Vaccine Laboratory before World War II. He also identified its chemical makeup and then looked into the mechanism by which the virulent poison works its harm unless promptly diagnosed and treated.
        His investigations advanced the knowledge of a very harmful toxin that attacks the membranes lining the throat, heart and central nervous system. A highly contagious disease, diphtheria produces a poison throughout the body and can be fatal. It was a common and dreaded childhood disease until immunization began.
        While the antitoxin had been widely and effectively used for years, Dr. Pappenheimer's research helped improve understanding of how toxins insinuate part of themselves across cell membranes. His work and its potential practical applications in medicine earned him the Eli Lilly Award in 1942.
        Dr. Pappenheimer was born in Cedarhurst, L.I., the son of a distinguished pathologist at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He graduated from Harvard University, where he also received his doctorate in organic chemistry.
        During World War II, he served as a captain in the Medical Corps in the South Pacific and at military research laboratories looking for antidotes to germs that might be used in warfare. He then accepted a professorship in the department of bacteriology and immunology at New York University, where he explored how small amounts of toxins affect the normal life of healthy cells.
        He continued to investigate the structure of toxins after joining the Harvard faculty in 1958 as chairman of the Board of Tutors in Biochemical Sciences. He reached emeritus status in 1979 but kept working in Prof. J. Woodland Hastings's biomedical laboratories at Harvard to the day he died.
        Dr. Pappenheimer is survived by his wife of 56 years, Pauline Forbes Pappenheimer; two daughters, Ruth Brazier, of Falmouth, Mass., and Sarah Pappenheimer, of Watertown; a son, John F., of Seattle; a brother, John R., of Cambridge, and four grandchildren.
      