
        Hanns Joachim Friedrichs, a journalist who shaped the style of German television news for four decades, died at his home in Hamburg on Monday. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Friedrichs told Der Spiegel in its cover interview this week that he had learned only at the end of December that he had the disease.
        Mr. Friedrichs retired from ARD television, one of the two German national public television networks, as moderator of its evening news magazine, "Tagesthemen," or "Subjects of the Day," in 1991. For many German viewers he was as widely respected and trusted as Walter Cronkite in the United States.
        His silver-haired features and his North German tenor had instant recognition all over Germany. He tried, Mr. Friedrichs said, to come across as a welcome guest at the evening dinner table. In recent years, he narrated the German version of the National Geographic nature series.
        Mr. Friedrichs was born in 1927 in Hamm, Westphalia. In World War II, he was conscripted as a schoolboy into an antiaircraft artillery unit and was taken prisoner by the British a few days after the war ended.
        He studied English in Hamburg after his release and worked briefly at a daily newspaper in the British zone of West Berlin, then in London for BBC radio's German-language service.
        He started his television career in Cologne in 1955. Over the next two and a half decades he reported from around the globe for ARD and, after 1964, for ZDF, the second German national public television network.
        He became moderator of ZDF's popular "Sportstudio" program in 1969, then was ZDF's sports editor for a decade until 1981, when he returned to New York as a correspondent.
        In the mid-1980's he returned to ARD to the evening news magazine, where on the night of Nov. 9, 1989, he delivered what he later described as the most important news of his career: "The gates of the wall are wide open."
        Mr. Friedrichs and his first wife, Adele Bruce Riepe of Bonn and New York City, were divorced in 1971. He is survived by his second wife, Ilse, of Hamburg; a brother, Martin, a physician in Moscow; a sister, Eva Lepane, of Herford; three stepchildren from his wife's earlier marriage, Susanne, Martin and Tilmann; and four step-grandchildren.
      