
        Ferdinand Lundberg, a prolific iconoclast whose books of social criticism pilloried the wealthy and what he perceived as their financial grip on the nation's economic life, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        A former financial writer for The New York Herald Tribune, Mr. Lundberg caused his first stir in 1936 with a scathing portrayal of America's richest publisher, "Imperial Hearst: A Social Biography." The book ascribed fascist political ambitions to William Randolph Hearst, abetted by an unholy alliance of big bankers.
        "America's Sixty Families" (1937) proposed that a small group of wealthy families held sway over the economy and the body politic, while their financial interests controlled the press. "The United States," Mr. Lundberg wrote, "is owned and dominated today by a hierarchy of the richest families, buttressed by no more than 90 families of lesser wealth."
        Together with Dr. Marynia F. Farnham, a psychiatrist, Mr. Lundberg produced "Modern Woman: The Lost Sex" (1947) The authors contended that in a disorganized American society, neuroses abounded among both men and women, but more dangerously among women, who were likely to pass their neuroses to the next generation.
        "The Treason of the People" (1954) scolded Americans for failing as citizens and took a jaundiced view of the Lincolnian thesis that enduring democracy had triumphed. Mr. Lundberg suggested that America was really a plutocracy managed by oligarchs.
        He updated the theme of "Sixty Families" in 1968 with the best-selling "The Rich and the Super-Rich," in which he put the number of families then wielding decisive economic and political control over the country at 200,000.
        "The Rockefeller Syndrome" (1976) portrayed that family as modern Medicis and discussed the Rockefellers' "ultimate involvement in the very warp and woof of the established order at every level."
        Another best seller, "Cracks in the Constitution" (1980), advocated, among other things, a line-item veto for the President and a parliamentary system for swifter decisions and cooperation between Capitol Hill and the White House.
        Most recently, Mr. Lundberg wrote "The Myth of Democracy" (1989) and "The Natural Depravity of Mankind" (1994).
        Ferdinand Edgar Lundberg was born in Chicago and received his B.A. and M.A. degrees at Columbia University. He worked as a journalist for The Chicago Daily News, United Press International and, from 1927 to 1934, The New York Herald Tribune.
        He was an editor for the Twentieth Century Fund. He also lectured as an adjunct professor of social philosophy at New York University from 1952 to 1968.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Young Lundberg; two sons, Randolph H., of Charlotte, N.C., and Laurence Y., of Lakewood, Colo., and two grandsons.
      