
        Marcel Ravidat, who in 1940 discovered the Lascaux cave paintings whose brilliantly colored renderings of prehistoric animals had been sealed from view for 17,000 years, died on Wednesday at his home in the village Montignac in the Dordogne region of southwestern France. He was 72.
        Village officials said the cause of death was a heart attack.
        Mr. Ravidat, at the time an 18-year-old apprentice garage mechanic, was in the company of three friends when he took a walk in the French woods and made the chance discovery of what has been described as the very cradle of art.
        By some accounts it occurred when his dog, Robot, chased a rabbit into a hole that led to the cave, by others when he simply discovered the hole himself while he and his friends were searching for a fabled underground passage to a nearby chateau.
        However the discovery was made, it proved immediately riveting to archeologists and a generation of awed tourists who flocked to the cave until it was closed in 1963 to protect the 600 paintings and 1,500 engravings from further deterioration.
        Although the area around Montignac is laced with caves whose prehistoric wall paintings had been long known, the paintings in the Lascaux cave have been the only ones found whose original hues have not faded.
        Unlike the other caves, Lascaux, whose protective layer of chalk had made it water tight, had been so completely sealed for so long that even today no one has discovered the entrance used by the prehistoric draftsmen who transformed its walls into a colorful menagerie.
        The small hole that Mr. Ravidat and his friends widened to gain access to the cave had been made the previous winter when a tree in the oak woods was uprooted by a storm, tearing away several feet of earth.
        Guy Davenport, whose short story "Robot," provides a lightly fictionalized account of the discovery, noted yesterday from his home in Lexington, Ky., that a number of versions have appeared over the years.
        "The story about the dog has been pretty much debunked," he said, recalling that Jacques Marsal, one of Mr. Ravidat's friends present at the discovery, had not mentioned it when the writer interviewed him in 1963.
        There is even some confusion about the date of the discovery, with some accounts listing it as Sept. 8, a Sunday, and others as Sept. 12, a Thursday, the traditional French school holiday. A composite version suggests that Mr. Ravidat discovered the hole leading to the cave on Sept. 8, but did not explore it until four days later when he returned to the site with his friends.
        By all accounts it was Mr. Ravidat who first descended into the hole and discovered the vast cave system, but the cave was so dark he did not immediately realize the full implications of what he had found.
        After borrowing a grease gun from the garage to use as a torch, he returned the next day and beheld the sight that transformed his life.
        The specter of the charging bulls, leaping stags and galloping horses was so riveting, Mr. Davenport said, that the boys maintained a vigil at the cave, keeping it a secret for a week until they finally told a teacher known for his expertise in prehistoric art.
        Because of the German occupation, the cave, which was used by French resistance to store weapons during World War II, was not open to the public until 1948.
        Along with Mr. Marsal, who died in 1989, Mr. Ravidat became an official guardian of the cave and a guide who never lost his initial awe at the sights his eyes had been the first to see for more than 15 millenniums.
        After the cave was closed in 1963 he became a mechanic at a nearby paper mill. He is survived by a wife and daughter.
      