
        Albert Hackett, who won a Pulitzer Prize with his first wife and collaborator, Frances Goodrich, for their play "The Diary of Anne Frank," died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 95.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Gisele Svetlik Hackett.
        In addition to being Broadway playwrights, Mr. Hackett and Miss Goodrich were among the most successful screenwriting teams in the history of Hollywood. During their long, distinguished career, the Hacketts were known as consummate craftsmen. They were the authors of more than 30 screenplays. Principally they wrote comedies and musicals, including "The Thin Man," "Easter Parade," "Father of the Bride" and "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers."
        Miss Goodrich died in 1984, at the age of 93. Mr. Hackett and his second wife were married the following year.
        In the early 1950's, the Hackett-Goodrich writing team transformed themselves from Hollywood screenwriters into serious dramatists. "The Diary of Anne Frank" was their adaptation of "Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl," the best-selling book about a young Dutch girl's wartime experience hiding from the Nazis. The play opened on Broadway at the Cort Theater on Oct. 5, 1955, and was an instantaneous success. It won the three major drama prizes in 1956: the Pulitzer Prize, the Tony Award for best play and the New York Drama Critics Circle Award.
        Directed by Garson Kanin, it ran for 717 performances, made a star out of Susan Strasberg in the title role and was filmed in 1959 by George Stevens, with a screenplay by the Hacketts. In his introduction to the published version of the play, Brooks Atkinson, the drama critic of The New York Times, said that "through every line" . . . "shines the spirit of Anne Frank," adding that the Hacketts "have let a clean, young mind address the conscience of the world." The play has been performed throughout the world.
        Mr. Hackett was born in New York City on Feb. 16, 1900. He began his career as a child actor, making his stage debut at the age of 6 playing a girl in "Lottie, the Poor Saleslady." Later he toured in vaudeville and with Maude Adams in "Peter Pan" and continued acting as an adult, mostly in comic roles in silent films and on stage.
        He and Miss Goodrich met in 1924, when both were acting, and they soon began writing together. In 1930, their play "Up Pops the Devil," about writers in Greenwich Village, opened at the Masque Theater, with Mr. Hackett playing one of the roles. In his review in The Times, Mr. Atkinson called it "a light-footed comedy" and praised Mr. Hackett's performance as "half the total humor." Mr. Hackett was, as his friend the artist Al Hirschfeld said, "a perennial juvenile into his 90's."
        The Hacketts were married in 1931 and were soon swept off to Hollywood, where they made their screenwriting debut with "The Secret of Madame Blanche" in 1933. That was followed by a streak of hit movies, most of them for MGM: "The Thin Man" (1934) and two sequels; "Naughty Marietta" (1935), the film version of Eugene O'Neill's "Ah! Wilderness" (1935), the movie version of the musical "Lady in the Dark" (1944), in 1946 both "The Virginian" and Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life" (which they said they developed from a Christmas card), Irving Berlin's "Easter Parade" (1948) and "In the Good Old Summertime" (1949).
        In the 1950's, they wrote, among other films, "Father of the Bride," "Father's Little Dividend," "The Long, Long Trailer," "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers," "Gaby" (an adaptation of Francoise Sagan's novel "A Certain Smile") and in 1962 the film version of Peter Shaffer's play "Five Finger Exercise."
        The couple had written several plays after "Up Pops the Devil," including "Bridal Wise" (1932) and "The Great Big Doorstep" (1942), but for them "The Diary of Anne Frank" was a dramatic change of pace. Kermit Bloomgarden, the producer, hired them to write the adaptation, on the recommendation of Lillian Hellman. The Hacketts spent several years on the project, spoke with Anne Frank's father, Otto Frank, and visited the Frank family's wartime hideaway in Amsterdam. It took eight drafts before they completed the play.
        In a diary that she kept during the writing, Miss Goodrich said: "This is totally different from anything we have ever done. I cry all the time." She and her husband found a pivotal line for their dramatization in one of Anne Frank's final diary entries, "In spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good at heart."
        Mr. Hackett is survived by his wife.
        Correction:  April 1, 1995, Saturday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on March 18 about the playwright and screenwriter Albert Hackett referred incorrectly to one of the films for which he and his wife, Frances Goodrich, wrote the screenplay. The 1956 film "Gaby" was a remake of "Waterloo Bridge" (1931), not an adaptation of the Francoise Sagan novel "A Certain Smile." A Hackett-Goodrich screenplay based on the Sagan novel appeared in 1958.
      