
        Joseph Needham, an extraordinarily prolific British biochemist and scientific historian who spent decades researching, writing and editing a monumental history of scientific development in China, died on Friday. He was 94 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        His death was announced yesterday by Gonville and Caius College at Cambridge University, with which he was associated for 70 years. The cause of death was not announced.
        Dr. Needham was a lecturer, professor and author of more than a dozen books on a broad range of topics. The crowning achievement in his long and achievement-rich life was "Science and Civilization in China," which was conceived in the 1940's as a short book but which grew so extensive that he and dozens of associates worked on it for the next five decades.
        "Science and Civilization in China" so far comprises more than 16 published books extending to tens of thousands of pages. The project, which is not expected to be completed until at least the year 2000, covers every possible facet of its subject, including chemistry, mathematics, navigation, medicine, botany, mechanics, civil engineering and agriculture.
        Students of China consider the work a singular achievement and have compared Dr. Needham's work to that of Darwin and Gibbon in its size and scope. Reviewing a shorter volume by Dr. Needham on Chinese science in The New York Times Book Review in 1982, the historian Jonathan Spence said "Science and Civilization in China" was "the most ambitious undertaking in Chinese studies during this century."
        Joseph Needham was born on the outskirts of London in 1900. The son of a doctor, he was educated at Gonville and Caius College, where he earned a doctorate. After rejecting surgery as a profession because he felt it did not offer enough opportunities for intellectual inquiry, he began teaching biochemisty at Cambridge.
        His research specialty was the connection between biochemistry and embryology. His many books on the subject included the three-volume "Chemical Embryology," whose lengthy foreword was later published as a separate book, "A History of Embryology," and is still regarded as a definitive work. Dr. Needham felt, as he did throughout his career, that understanding the history of science and scientific thought was the key to evaluating modern science.
        His work took a new turn in 1942, when he traveled to China as head of the British Scientific Mission in Chungking, now Chongqing, the capital of wartime China. Having already been inspired by Chinese students at Cambridge to teach himself Chinese ("It's like going for a swim on a hot day," he once said in an interview. "Getting right out of the alphabet into a language where words are like bits of crystal."), he found himself captivated by the Chinese way of life and China's approach to science and technology. For the next six years he traveled around the country in any number of conveyances, including jeeps, junks, wheelbarrows, camels, litters and goatskin rafts, collecting obscure, secondhand books on traditional science that became the basis of his extensive and unusual library.
        Before leaving England, Dr. Needham had declared that he planned to write a brief book on science in China. "I pictured it then as one small volume," he said in an interview years later, "just taking up the fundamental question of why modern science originated in Europe and not in China."
        But that was not the way his mind worked. Dr. Needham found it impossible to take up just part of an issue and stop there, and soon he found himself casting his question in a different way: How, he wondered, had the West lagged so drastically in developing Chinese scientific advances like printing, gunpowder, pest control and the magnetic compass? (There were dozens more, he wrote, including "mechanical clockwork, the casting of iron, stirrups and efficient horse harnesses." )
        The work began to expand, from an initial volume to a planned seven volumes in multiple parts that set out to examine the fundamental differences between Western and Chinese approaches to scientific advancement. Dr. Needham argued that while the West was preoccupied with natural law, set forth in the scientific principles developed by Galileo and others, the Chinese Taoist and Confucian tradition was more concerned with social ethics and the direct implications of science. "A wise ancient counselor advised against gunpowder," Dr. Needham liked to say, "for it singed beards, burned houses and brought Taoism into discredit."
        Dr. Needham threw himself into his project, initially writing most of the volumes himself, with the help of research from many correspondents. After a while the project grew so huge that other scholars took on sections themselves. But even in old age Dr. Needham remained vigorous and curious, and continued to handle the day-to-day administration and correspondence for the project into his 80's.
        The work continues under the auspices of the Needham Research Institute in Cambridge, of which Dr. Needham served as the director emeritus until his death.
        Dr. Needham's respect for Chinese thinking was also reflected in his politics, and at Cambridge he was almost as well known for his left-wing beliefs as for his scientific achievements. An avowed Marxist and one of a group of radical Cambridge scientists in the 1930's that included J. D. Bernal and Julian Huxley, Dr. Needham charged the United States with using germ warfare during the Korean War, a position that caused him to be barred for many years from entering the country.
        During World War II, he lobbied for the formation of a new international scientific agency. That was how the proposed United Nations Educational and Cultural Organization was expanded to include science; Dr. Needham was often credited with putting the "s" in Unesco. From 1946 to 1948 he served as the group's director of natural sciences.
        Though he was always based in Cambridge, Dr. Needham held many positions at other institutions over the years, including Yale, Cornell, Johns Hopkins, Stanford and Oberlin in the United States; the universities of Warsaw, Lvov, Cracow and Wilno in Poland; and the University of Lyons in France. At Cambridge he was Master of Caius College from 1966 to 1976, spending too much of his time, he said, at "boring college meetings."
        In 1924 Dr. Needham married his first wife, Dorothy, a Cambridge biochemist, and the two became the first married couple (besides Queen Victoria and Prince Albert) to become Fellows of the Royal Society. After his first wife's death, he married his longtime colleague, Lu Gwei Djen. She died in 1991.
      