
        James Bryan McMillan, a retired Federal judge who played a pivotal role in ending the segregation of Southern public schools, died on Saturday at his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Judge McMillan issued the crosstown busing order, unanimously upheld by the United States Supreme Court in 1971, that made Charlotte and Mecklenburg County a model for broad busing plans. The case became a cornerstone in the efforts of the Federal judiciary to enforce Brown v. Board of Education, the Supreme Court's basic 1954 desegregation ruling.
        Swann v. Mecklenburg arose in 1965 when a black parent, James E. Swann, challenged the system that kept Charlotte's black students apart from the white majority. When the local school board failed to submit an acceptable integration plan, Judge McMillan issued his order in 1970 for thousands of black pupils to be bused. His intent was to establish a 30-70 black-to-white ratio throughout the schools to reflect the composition of Charlotte's population.
        Judge McMillan, one of the last judicial appointments by President Lyndon B. Johnson in June 1968, was burned in effigy, received death threats and at times had to be escorted by Federal marshals. In addition, the Nixon Administration joined the school board in fighting his plan.
        Opponents argued that Judge McMillan had gone beyond constitutional limits in his proposal to make Charlotte schools one of the least segregated systems anywhere. A Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals panel agreed that Judge McMillan's order was unreasonably burdensome, and the case went to the Supreme Court. There it became the centerpiece of the decision that settled the matter.
        Writing also for his eight colleagues, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger rebuffed the school board and the Justice Department. The Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of busing as a means to "dismantle the dual school systems" of the South.
        Four years later, Judge McMillan found that his plan had gained wide acceptance and decided that the busing of 45,000 of Charlotte's 75,000 students was going well. He therefore withdrew as a constant monitor of the operation.
        Born in Goldsboro, N.C., he grew up on a farm with black tenant families. He graduated from the University of North Carolina, earned his law degree at Harvard University in 1940 and went into private practice.
        He was named to the bench by President Johnson with the blessing of Senator Sam J. Ervin Jr., and the Swann case was one of the first on his calendar. He reached senior status in 1989 but continued with a heavy caseload until his retirement three years ago.
        Survivors include his wife, Holly Smith Neaves McMillan; a son, James Jr. of Thomasville, N.C., and a daughter, Marjorie McM. Rodale of Denver. His first wife of 41 years, Margaret, died in 1985.
        Correction:  March 9, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about James B. McMillan, a Federal judge who initiated crosstown school busing in Charlotte, N.C., in the 1970's, misstated the last name of his surviving daughter, Marjorie. It is Rodell, not Rodale.
      