
        Bernard Cornfeld, a Brooklyn-reared salesman who became one of the most flamboyant and controversial figures ever to stride through the American mutual fund industry, died in London on Monday. He was 67.
        A family friend told Bloomberg Business News, which first reported Mr. Cornfeld's death, that the financier had died of pneumonia after suffering a stroke shortly before Christmas. His death was confirmed by the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London.
        In the mid-1960's -- when Michael Milken, the junk bond king, was still a student -- Mr. Cornfeld was the enfant terrible of the financial world.
        Shuttling around the world from his ancient French castle with a coterie of celebrity jet-setters, Mr. Cornfeld built his company, Investors Overseas Services, into a $2.5 billion financial empire that fascinated the news media, attracted small investors and plagued market regulators around the world.
        In 1970, his empire, then faltering, was taken over by Robert L. Vesco, an American financier who quickly siphoned more than $220 million from the company and became a fugitive after being accused of securities fraud. Mr. Vesco remains at large.
        Born in Istanbul in August 1927, Bernard Cornfeld was the son of a Romanian actor who moved his family to the United States in the early 1930's. He graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn and Brooklyn College. By 1954, he had become a mutual fund salesman, entering the industry just as mutual funds were experiencing their first strong surge of growth since the stock market crash of 1929.
        In 1956, he moved to Paris, planning to sell shares of popular American mutual funds, chiefly the Dreyfus Fund, to Americans living abroad. Using his trademark recruiting challenge -- "Do you sincerely want to be rich?" -- he built Investors Overseas Services. At its peak, it was a far-flung organization that included a vast and intensely loyal sales force, a secretive Swiss bank, an insurance unit, real estate interests and a stable of offshore investment funds operating beyond the reach of any single country's securities laws.
        By 1970, his company had pumped millions of overseas dollars into the American mutual fund industry, initially through its aggressive sales force and then through Mr. Cornfeld's trailblazing Fund of Funds, an offshore fund that invested in other mutual funds' shares.
        Mr. Cornfeld gave now-famous money managers like Fred Alger their start by selecting them to run funds owned by the Fund of Funds, which at its peak had more than $450 million invested in American mutual funds.
        He also acquired enough financial power over American mutual funds and skirted close enough to the edges of Federal securities laws to attract the attention of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which in 1965 accused him and his company of violating American securities laws.
        In 1967, the company settled the commission's complaint by agreeing to wind up or sell all its American operations. The Fund of Funds also agreed to buy no more than 3 percent of any American mutual fund, the limit imposed by Federal mutual fund law.
        After leaving the American market, Mr. Cornfeld continued to live lavishly, and his financial empire appeared strong until early 1970, when it suddenly disclosed that it was short of cash and had substantially overestimated its 1969 profits. Under pressure from creditors, Mr. Cornfeld lost control of his crippled company to Mr. Vesco later that year.
        In 1973 Mr. Cornfeld was charged with defrauding employees of Investors Overseas Services by selling them stock in the faltering company. He spent 11 months in a Swiss jail before being freed on bond. He was later acquitted of the charges. Civil lawsuits recovered some money for fund investors.
        Mr. Cornfeld spent years trying to retrieve his shattered empire, whose collapse he always blamed on Mr. Vesco.
        In 1976 a California court found Mr. Cornfeld guilty of fraud for using an electronic device to bypass the billing process for long-distance telephone calls. He was sentenced to three months in prison. Mr. Cornfeld's death prompted the same profoundly divided assessments that he had inspired in life.
        ""He was a brilliant, absolutely brilliant, innovator in the field," Mr. Alger said yesterday.
        But Richard M. Meyer, a New York lawyer who specialized in mutual fund litigation in Mr. Cornfeld's heyday, recalled instead the millions of dollars that investors lost when Mr. Cornfeld's empire collapsed and said: "He only looks good when you compare him to his successor, Robert Vesco. He championed taking a buck from anybody, without scruples."
        Mr. Cornfeld was beset by lawsuits and Federal tax disputes throughout the 1980's, and he spent the last years of his life in semi-retirement, dreaming of making a comeback as a mutual fund powerhouse, a longtime friend said. At the time of his death, he was dividing his time between homes near London and on the Continent.
        Mr. Cornfeld's marriage to Lorraine Armbruster, an American fashion model, ended in divorce. He is survived by a daughter from that marriage, Jessica, of London.
      