
        Jerry Lester, an ebullient comedian and former song-and-dance man who became the host of the first successful late-night network television talk and variety show, died on Thursday in a Miami nursing home. He was 85.
        His wife, Alice, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Lester appeared in a number of Broadway musicals and a few Hollywood films in the 1940's. He was also familiar to radio audiences, but he broke into late-night television in 1950 almost by mistake.
        Asked to appear as a guest on a talk show with Tex McCrary and Jinx Falkenburg, Mr. Lester almost refused until he was assured that a movie he and his wife planned to see that night had a later showing. His shameless mugging, corny jokes and irrepressible energy lighted up the NBC telephone switchboard, prompting Pat Weaver, the president of NBC, to offer the comedian a show of his own on the spot.
        Called "Broadway Open House," the show began in May 1950, and for the next year it introduced viewers new to television to the kind of late-night entertainment vehicle -- featuring comedy, music and famous guests -- that ultimately made stars of Steve Allen, Jack Paar and Johnny Carson.
        Mr. Lester's most famous cast member was Dagmar, a voluptuous blond whose deadpan reactions to his mugging were a hallmark of his early shows. Jack Gould, television critic of The New York Times, called Mr. Lester the master of low comedy and a performer who never gave up on a joke. Even Mr. Lester called himself the "heckler of all hecklers."
        Mr. Lester never failed to be surprised by his initial television success. In an interview in 1950, he said his aim was to make the audience like him, no matter what, and that talent was not so important.
        "If they like you, you don't have to worry whether every gag goes over big or if every sketch is the best thing they've ever seen," he said. "And if it isn't, I don't beat the audience over the head. I never tell them they're wrong. I just apologize."
        Mr. Lester was born in Chicago, where his father was a music critic. As a boy he entered Charleston and tap-dancing contests and performed in music halls and nightclubs. After studying at Northwestern University, he embarked on a career in show business that included music halls, nightclubs, Broadway, Hollywood, radio and finally television.
        In the 1940's, he appeared in a number of Broadway shows, including George Abbott's "Beat the Band" and "Jackpot."
        In 1965, he renewed his tie to Abbott and appeared in the road production of Abbott's "Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum." In 1969, he played the wheeler-dealer Seabee, Luther Willis, in a Jones Beach production of the musical "South Pacific."
        Mr. Lester's wife said he was stricken with Alzheimer's in 1975 and never performed again.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children from an earlier marriage: a son, Jay, of Tucson, and two daughters, Judy Stein of Calabasas, Calif., and Joan Busler, of West Hills, Calif.; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      