
        Earl Blackwell, a society impresario who made his fortune keeping track of celebrities, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital. A Manhattan resident, he was 85 and also kept a home in Great Harbour Cay, the Bahamas.
        He had suffered a long illness, said Vine Phoenix, his assistant for 40 years.
        Mr. Blackwell came from Southern gentry and mingled easily with the international jet set, using his social connections to raise money for the less fortunate, particularly children in need.
        Those interests also led him to become a promoter of celebrities. In 1939, he founded the lucrative New York-based Celebrity Service, an information and research service that has since opened branches in Hollywood, London, Paris and Rome.
        Samuel Earl Blackwell Jr. was born in Atlanta and graduated with a journalism degree from Olglethorpe Unversity. He acted briefly in Hollywood and then moved to New York for the brief run in 1939 of a musical comedy he co-wrote, "Aries Is Rising."
        That same year he founded the Celebrity Service with a fellow writer, Ted Strong. As it grew, the company published an International Celebrity Register, an annual Contact Book and the daily Celebrity Bulletin, which reported on people in the arts, business, education, politics, religion, science and sports. Mr. Blackwell, who later bought his partner out, sold the business in 1985, but remained active as chairman until his death.
        He was co-editor, with Cleveland Amory, of "Celebrity Register: An Irreverent Compendium of American Quotable Notables" (Harper, 1963). He also coordinated parties that mixed charity with celebrity and that drew much attention from the press. One such occasion was a 1967 international masked ball that was held in a 17th-century palazzo on the Grand Canal in Venice to aid artisans who had suffered losses in a flood the previous winter.
        He was a director of the Broadway Foundation, and from 1957 to 1965 was director of the Mayor's Committee on Scholastic Achievement, raising money for college scholarships.
        He is survived by a sister, Mary B. Alexander of Atlanta.
      