
        Howard S. Meighan, an executive of CBS Inc. who helped change the face of television by introducing the use of videotape, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Meighan was among the executives and engineers trying to find a way to record programs for broadcast quickly and inexpensively. At the time, most programs were live. If a station could not carry a program live, it might use a kinescope film, which was recorded off a television picture tube, but the quality was less than satisfactory. Indeed, Mr. Meighan once called these recordings "a very poor facsimile of live television."
        In 1956, the Ampex Corporation demonstrated a video system that recorded sound and pictures on magnetic tape -- and could play them back immediately. The invention was front-page news in The New York Times, which said that "the potentialities of the device are virtually unlimited."
        Mr. Meighan, who at the time was a vice president of CBS, was quoted as saying that video recording could result in far better picture quality for millions of viewers, and under his direction, the network was one of the first buyers of the new equipment.
        In 1958, Mr. Meighan left CBS to start Videotape Productions Inc., which videotaped commercials. In a 1979 article, Back Stage, the entertainment trade publication, called Mr. Meighan "the founding father of videotape."
        Born in Mamaroneck, N.Y., in 1906, Mr. Meighan worked for the advertising agency J. Walter Thompson after graduating from Columbia University.
        He joined CBS in 1934 as an account executive in radio sales and went on to hold many positions there, including president of CBS Radio. In 1949, he raised a bit of a ruckus by complaining about how insincere most radio announcers sounded, and in the early 1950's he was in charge of the development of Television City, the network's broadcast center in Hollywood.
        Mr. Meighan served for 10 years as a trustee of the Village of Mamaroneck, and after his retirement became president of the New York Wine and Food Society.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Maryelaine Pryor, of Manhattan; two daughters, Deborah of Manhattan, and Melissa of Philadelphia; a sister, Ruth Gillette of St. Petersburg, Fla., and two brothers, Burton C. Jr., of Larchmont, N.Y., and Hunter, of Mamaroneck.
      