
        Selena, the 23-year-old reigning queen of the Tejano music world, was shot and killed today at a Corpus Christi motel.
        Shortly after 9:30 P.M. a 32-year-old woman identified by the young singer's father as the former president of her fan club abruptly surrendered after keeping the police at bay for nearly 10 hours as she sat in a red pickup truck in the motel parking lot with a gun pointed at her temple.
        Hundreds of people who had congregated in the cold drizzle watched as she was rushed off in a police car, surrounded by officers.
        The killing of the star, who had won a Grammy music award last year and whose recording "Amor Prohibido" ("Forbidden Love") sold 400,000 copies in the United States and many more than that in Mexico, stunned her fans and prompted almost non-stop coverage on Spanish-language radio and television stations here, in Texas's major cities and all along the Mexican border. Many of the stations took calls from distraught listeners and played Selena's songs throughout the day.
        The surrender came in a surreal scene with a crowd of reporters, television camera operators and onlookers gathered at an Exxon gas station across the street from the Days Inn motel just off a stretch of Interstate 37 near the Corpus Christi airport. Hundreds of fans, including many weeping teen-agers, converged on the scene throughout the day, a few with tape machines that played recordings of Selena's songs as reporters' beepers and cellular phones rang almost constantly.
        Police identified the suspect as Yolanda Saldivar and said they would charge her on Saturday. The singer's father, Abraham Quintanilla, said Ms. Saldivar was a former head of the Selena fan club who three weeks ago was fired from her job at the family's clothing boutique here, Selena, Etc. The stores are due to expand to San Antonio and Mexico in coming months.
        "There have been discrepancies," Mr. Quintanilla told reporters at the hospital where his daughter died this afternoon, two hours after she was shot. "And they resulted in her shooting Selena."
        Mr. Quintanilla described Ms. Saldivar as a "disgruntled employee" who was fired after money was discovered to be missing from the store. He said that Selena had demanded that the woman return financial documents about the company and that the two women had agreed to meet at the motel.
        With her pouting smile, suggestive clothing and theatrical command of a microphone, Selena was often described as the Madonna of the Mexican-American world and was an idol and heartthrob on both sides of the border. Unlike Madonna, though, she also cultivated an image as a cheerful promoter of family values. She was married to Chris Perez, the lead guitarist in her band, Selena y los Dinos.
        Tejano music, which has roots both in the oompah music of European settlers in Texas and in Mexican ballads, is a fast-paced mix of accordion, guitars and lyrics in both English and Spanish.
        It is hugely popular in South Texas and elsewhere along the border. The recent Tejano Music Awards in San Antonio, which has become a sort of Nashville of the Tejano world, was attended by 45,000 fans. At the ceremonies, Selena walked away with awards for female entertainer of the year, female vocalist of the year, best record of the year and best album. Her "Selena Live" also won the Grammy last year for best Mexican-American album.
        "It's got polka in it, a little bit of country, a little bit of jazz," she said in an interview last year with the San Jose Mercury News. "Fuse all those types of music together. I think that's where you get Tejano."
        Selena's hit "Fotos y Recuerdos" ("Photographs and Memories") is No. 4 on Billboard Magazine's Latin chart this week.
        An assistant police chief in Corpus Christi, Ken Bung, said that Selena, whose full name was Selena Quintanilla Perez, was shot in a room at the motel just before noon and stumbled to the lobby. She was rushed to the Memorial Medical Center and pronounced dead about an hour later.
        Born in Lake Jackson, near Houston, on April 16, 1971, Selena began singing with her father's band at age 3. The family later moved to Corpus Christi where she became well-known in local music circles by her teen-age years and eventually became a widely known star.
        At the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, a traditional celebration that turns America's fourth-largest city into a cowtown once a year, Selena was the largest-selling draw this year.
        "We had 20 performances this year," said Leroy Shafer, assistant general manager of the show. "We had Reba McEntire, George Strait, Clint Black and Vince Gill. She had the highest-selling show concert at our show this year, at 61,041 in the Astrodome."
        A concert video made of her performance is to air shortly in Mexico and on some Spanish-language stations in Texas.
        Maria Aguirre, a receptionist at KQQK, a popular Tejano music station in Houston, said the switchboard had been flooded with calls since the death was first announced.
        "Basically they are just in awe," Ms. Aguirre said. "They cannot believe that it happened. They're calling to reconfirm."
        For Tejano fans, she added, "It's almost like the feeling when John Lennon died. She was the queen of Tejano."
        Mr. Shafer said: "This lady was destined to be an international superstar. In many aspects she already was. She could sell out any pavilion in South Texas. She was on her way to standing beside Madonna."
        In Mexico, her popularity was limited more to the northern border region, within what Mexicans call the onda grupera, or "group wave," a movement of norteno or "ranchera" pop groups that travel the northern and central states of the country, playing dances in the towns and concerts in the cities.
        Selena's father had toured nightclubs across Texas in the 1960's with the original version of Los Dinos but did not achieve wide success until he made young Selena, with her belting vocal power, the lead singer. "I think he saw dollar signs," Selena said laughingly in an interview last year, describing the evolution of a family band that included her sister Suzette on drums and her brother Abraham III on guitar.
        Industry experts estimated that the shooting would only ripen Selena's celebrity as the Tejano queen who was about to break through to a larger public with her first English language album as well as her first movie role in the forthcoming "Don Juan DeMarco."
        "That album was going to open a lot of doors," said John Ortiz, promotion representative for EMI Latin Records. "It will be a great loss. Shewas involved in many things."
      