
        Ellen Hermanson, a crusader in the battle against breast cancer, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 42 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
        The disease was diagnosed in Ms. Hermanson in 1989, six months after the birth of her only daughter, Leora. She became actively involved in breast cancer issues by organizing survivor groups and speaking at national conferences and regional workshops.
        Last November, Ms. Hermanson delivered a paper on the struggle to live with cancer pain to the annual National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship assembly in Washington. It was at this assembly that Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the United States Supreme Court spoke for the first time about her own experience with breast cancer.
        In 1991, Ms. Hermanson helped found the Jewish Healing Center in New York, an organization that provides spiritual assistance to people coping with serious illnesses. As editor of the center's quarterly newsletter, The Out-Stretched Arm, Ms. Hermanson published articles on breast cancer, support groups and health-care workshops. The center now has offices in New York and San Francisco.
        In 1992, Judith Kaye, Chief Judge of New York State, appointed Ms. Hermanson the first executive director of the Judges and Lawyers Breast Cancer Alert. The group promotes breast cancer awareness and provides education and legal services.
        Ms. Hermanson was also an active member of the national board of the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship, which provides support to cancer survivors, their friends and families and health care providers. She edited the coalition's quarterly newsletter, Networker.
        Ms. Hermanson was most recently working on a project to let breast cancer survivors and their families communicate over the Internet. She was also editor of the Sloan-Kettering Annual Report.
        Ms. Hermanson was born in Belmont, Mass., in 1952. She graduated from Connecticut College with honors in 1974 and received a master's degree in journalism from New York University in 1978.
        She is survived by her husband, Hugo Mareno and her daughter of Manhattan; her parents, Harlow and Roslyn Hermanson of Belmont, and two sisters, Emily Hermanson Levin of Great Neck, L.I., and Julie Hermanson Ratner of New York City.
        Correction:  April 13, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Ellen Hermanson, an advocate for survivors of breast cancer, misspelled her husband's name. He is Hugo Moreno, not Mareno. The obituary also misstated her residence. She lived in Brooklyn, not Manhattan. The article also misstated the name of a group whose board she served on. It is the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship, not the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship.
      