
        Spencer Truman Olin, a former executive of the Olin Corporation who devoted much of his life to supporting the Republican Party and giving away his share of the huge munitions fortune his father started building more than a century ago, died on Friday at his home on Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 96.
        Mr. Olin was overshadowed somewhat by his older brother, John M. Olin, who was president of Olin Industries at the time of its merger with the Mathieson Chemical Corporation in 1954 and chairman of the Olin-Mathieson Chemical Corporation, now the Olin Corporation, until 1967. The older brother died in 1982. The company was founded in 1892 by their father, Franklin W. Olin, to make blasting powder. It has grown to become a diversified $2.7 billion corporation.
        Even so, for all his father's wealth, Spencer Olin, a native of Alton, Ill., and a Cornell University graduate, was himself a hard-working executive who held a succession of positions in the family enterprises, rising to vice president of an Olin company at the time its Winchester Repeating Arms subsidiary turned out 15 billion rounds of ammunition for the Allies during World War II.
        Mr. Olin, who became first vice president when the family holdings were consolidated into Olin Industries after the war, curtailed his day-to-day executive responsibilities after the 1954 Mathieson merger, although he remained a director until 1970.
        Still, he then had more time to devote to golf, trap-shooting and politics.
        An important fund-raiser for Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mr. Olin was national finance chairman for the Republican Party from 1958 to 1960 and treasurer of the National Republican Committee from 1960 to 1962.
        As a philanthropist, his interests were wide ranging.
        Rolla Mottac, a longtime associate, said yesterday that he had no idea how many millions Mr. Olin had given away over the years, but he noted that Mr. Olin's alma mater, Cornell, and the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis were leading beneficiaries. Each is receiving $30 million in $1.5 million annual installments begun in 1986 by a foundation established by Mr. Olin.
        Mr. Olin, a low-handicap golfer, managed to gain a footnote in professional athletic history. In 1954, when Arnold Palmer was a struggling young pro, he and Mr. Olin won a pro-am tournament at the Greenbriar resort in West Virgina.
        The $750 prize meant a lot to Mr. Palmer, who did not join the professional tour until the next year. The victory meant even more when he learned that before the tournament, Mr. Olin had bet $10,000 on his own team and was splitting his winnings with Mr. Palmer, who never forgot the source of the windfall.
        Years later, when Mr. Olin gave $5 million to build a public course for his hometown of Alton, Mr. Palmer agreed to design it.
        Mr. Olin is survived by a son, Spencer Jr., of Hartford; three daughters, Mary Dell Pritzlaff of Santa Barbara, Calif., Barbara Ann Taylor of Hobe Sound, and Eunice Whitney Higgins of Greenwich, Conn.; 14 grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren.
      