
        Judge Harold L. Ryan, a conservative Republican with a love of the Idaho outdoors and a weakness for cribbage, died on Monday at his home in Boise, Idaho. He was 71, and had spent his 13 years on the Federal District Court bench suppressing his strong personal convictions in a series of important environmental and other rulings.
        The cause of death was cancer, his law clerks said.
        As one of only two full-time Federal judges in Idaho, Judge Ryan, who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan in 1981, presided over a wide variety of cases, many of them involving hotly debated social issues.
        While he recognized the need for a strong military, he did not hesitate to issue an order in 1993 that threatened the very existence of the Navy's nuclear-powered submarine fleet.
        His order, upholding the State of Idaho, banned the Navy from shipping more spent nuclear fuel to the state, which has the nation's only long-term storage site for nuclear wastes. In the furor that followed, the Navy and the state reached a compromise under which the Navy agreed to improve the storage site.
        Judge Ryan, who spent his life hunting, fishing and photographing unspoiled Idaho terrain, was generally a staunch supporter of environmental protection. But when he found that the Department of the Interior had done a sloppy job in adding the Bruneau Hot Springs snail to the endangered species list, putting its Idaho breeding grounds off limits to farmers seeking water for irrigation, he simply removed the snail from the list, becoming the only judge to issue such an order.
        Judge Ryan, who made it a practice to spend his lunch breaks playing cribbage with his law clerks, was known as a man of such courtesy and good humor that defendants routinely thanked him for sentencing them to long prison terms.
        Although Mr. Ryan had once been a prosecutor and had earned a reputation as something of a right-wing ideologue during two terms in the State Senate in the 1960's, when he was nominated for the Federal bench a state legislator opposed him on the ground that he was soft on crime because he had voted against the death penalty.
        Indeed, Judge Ryan continued to oppose the death penalty, but he also upheld each of the dozen or so death penalty cases that came before him during his years on the bench.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann; three sons, Mike, of Colorado Springs, Tim, of Boise, and Tom, of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      