
        Chen Yun, a conservative Communist Party patriarch whose revulsion to Western capitalism was an important brake on the pace of economic reform in China during the last 16 years, died yesterday afternoon, a spokesman for the State Council, or cabinet, announced early today.
        The cause of death was not disclosed, but the spokesman said China's official media would report details later today. Mr. Chen was 89.
        Due to his seniority and influence in the party, Mr. Chen and the conservative central planners and Marxist ideologues whom he led were the principal counterweight to the economic opening by Deng Xiaoping that is transforming China.
        Although Mr. Deng established himself as paramount leader in 1978, he was only first among equals with the revolutionary elders who founded the People's Republic of China in 1949 and who survived Mao Zedong, who died in 1976.
        Thus Mr. Chen was once a formidable political obstacle with whom Mr. Deng was forced to compromise over policy and the structure of the next generation of leaders. Those leaders remain divided over how to carry out China's long-delayed modernization.
        After a bout with an upper respiratory ailment last spring, Mr. Chen was thought to be near death. In June a number of top leaders rushed to his bedside in Shanghai, as did his family members, at least one of whom was in the United States. But Mr. Chen recovered.
        Seeing so many people gathered in his room, he is said to have rebuked them, saying, "I'm not going to die yet."
        Several weeks ago Mr. Chen was admitted to an exclusive ward of Beijing Hospital reserved for party leaders, and reportedly received frequent dialysis for kidney failure.
        Mr. Chen was last seen in public in February 1994, in a televised greeting from party leaders during the Lunar New Year celebration. He looked remarkably fit at the time, much more so than Mr. Deng, who also made his last television appearance at that time.
        As politically powerful as he was, Mr. Chen was self-effacing, going to extremes to stay out of the limelight, and preferring to work quietly behind the scenes.
        In the summer of 1989, for example, his nurse complimented him on a television series that was portraying him very favorably. Mr. Chen, who was unaware of the series, then asked the Communist Party leader, Jiang Zemin, to stop the series because he did not want his contributions to be singled out, according to a Chinese with direct knowledge of the incident.
        Likewise, Mr. Chen resisted for many years proposals that he move to Zhongnanhai, the leaders' compound in the center of Beijing. He said that his home, in an alley just outside the compound, made it easier for him to mix with friends and ordinary Chinese. About a decade ago, Mr. Chen gave in and moved with his family to a villa in Zhongnanhai.
        For all his reticence, he had enormous power and was at the center of decision-making for virtually the entire period of Communist Chinese history. He served on the Central Committee for 56 years, from 1931 to 1987, and on the Politburo for more than four decades -- in both cases, longer than Mr. Deng. Since semi-retiring in 1987, Mr. Chen had been chairman of the influential Central Advisory Commission.
        Even though he was removed from the day-to-day challenges of running the country, and only met with other leaders on rare occasions, Mr. Chen exerted tremendous influence.
        He was perhaps best known for his vision of a "bird-cage economy." He argued that the market in China should operate like a bird in a cage. The cage must not be too small, lest the bird suffocate, but there had to be a cage to contain the bird, otherwise it would fly away.
        A native of what is now part of Shanghai, he was born on the 11th day of the 5th month of the lunar calendar in 1905, and in a sign of his traditionalism, he and his family always celebrated his birthday according to the lunar calendar, even when almost all Chinese were using the Western calendar.
        Born with the name Liao Chenyun, he dropped his surname when he went into hiding as a union leader with the Communist underground in the late 1920's. Mr. Chen never had any formal education after elementary school, but as a teen-ager he held various jobs at a publishing company, according to an American biographer, David M. Bachman.
        Unlike most Chinese leaders of his generation, Mr. Chen did not have much military experience. But he rose fast within the Communist Party, and just nine years after joining the party in 1925, he was elected to the Politburo.
        In 1934 he joined the Long March, the epic journey from the revolutionary base in southeastern China to the caves of Yanan in north-central China. After traveling only as far as Zunyi, in the southern province Gui zhou, Mr. Chen was dispatched by the Communist leadership to Shanghai to help lead the underground.
        Through his intimate involvement in those turbulent years -- and through his survival of them -- Mr. Chen joined the elite of the early revolutionaries.
        Mr. Chen is known to have taken only one trip to a foreign country: in 1935 he traveled to Moscow with a Communist delegation. He remained extremely cautious, almost suspicious, in his approach to Western countries.
        When the Communists came to power in 1949, Mr. Chen helped run the economy, ending runaway inflation and formulating policies by which the Chinese economy would operate for the years to come. Then in 1961 and 1962, after Mao began the Great Leap Forward, which devastated China and caused widespread famine, Mr. Chen led the team that put the economy back on its feet.
        In those years Mr. Chen was regarded as a pragmatist and relative "reformer" who believed in a limited role for the market. Ironically, in the late 1980's he held much the same views, but he was then regarded as a "hard liner," indicating how much China's economic thinking had changed.
        He always advocated balancing the budget, keeping a tight rein on currency and investing in construction. But in sharp contrast to how he was viewed in his later years, Mr. Chen was considered in the Maoist era to be the most outspoken proponent of the market and economic restructuring.
        When the Cultural Revolution began in 1966, Mr. Chen was removed from all posts except membership on the Central Committee. But he is believed to have escaped the beatings and humiliations that were the fate of many other top leaders.
        After Mao died in 1976 and Mr. Deng clawed his way back to power, Mr. Chen also resumed a major role. In 1978 he was elected to the standing committee of the politburo, the highest policy-making body.
        In the 1980's he became feeble and conservative, and Mr. Deng persuaded him to retire from his formal posts on the Central Committee at the 13th Party Congress, in the fall of 1987.
        Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party leader ousted after the military crackdown in June 1989, maintained an amicable relationship with Mr. Chen for most of the 1980's. They met monthly and spoke on the telephone each week, according to a Chinese close to the leadership. In the meantime, however, Prime Minister Li Peng had developed even friendlier relations with Mr. Chen and came to be known as one of Mr. Chen's followers.
        After the June 1989 crackdown, Mr. Chen was one of several octogenarian leaders who immediately voiced support for the military.
        In the aftermath of the crackdown, China intensified its austerity plan, clamping down on inflation and imports, focusing on exports and expanding central control.
        Some Western scholars have said that China's retrenchment bore the mark of Mr. Chen, who had applied similar measures during previous economic crises.
        Owing to his seniority and his competition for influence with Mr. Deng, every aspect of the memorial services for Mr. Chen will be watched for political meaning.
        In recent years many Chinese have felt that the fate of China could rest on which of the two most senior leaders, Mr. Deng and Mr. Chen, would survive the other, perhaps leading to a purge of the other's proteges and supporters.
        Mr. Chen is thought to be survived by his wife, Yu Ruomu, about whom little is known. He is also survived by two sons and three daughters.
        For all Mr. Chen's apprehension about the West, one of his sons, Chen Yuan, has traveled extensively in the West as a senior official of the People's Bank of China. A daughter, Chen Weili, has also traveled frequently to the United States and Europe as a top executive of China Venturetech, an investment banking firm in China.
      