
        Marion Tinsley, the perennial world checkers champion who was widely regarded as the game's best player ever, died in Humble, Tex., on Monday, five years after he ran out of worthy human opponents and began winning his last titles by beating ever more powerful computers. He was 68 and lived in Conyers, Ga.
        The cause was cancer, relatives said. He was visiting his twin sister, Mary Clark, in Humble when he died.
        Mr. Tinsley, a retired Florida State University mathematics professor who had lost only nine checkers games since first winning the world championship in 1955, abandoned his world title last August at the world championship final in Boston sponsored by the American Checkers Federation and the British Draughts Federation.
        Illness forced him to withdraw from the championship match after playing six games against an enhanced version of the Chinook computer program that he had beaten in three previous title matches. Although Chinook eventually won the 1994 title by beating a stand-in, the victory was a hollow one for the program's developer, Jonathan Schaeffer, a Canadian computer scientist.
        "Tinsley was the Mount Everest we wanted to scale," Mr. Schaeffer said, noting that the latest Chinook, which has a repertory of 250 billion moves and can make 3 million calculations a minute, was five times as powerful as the version Mr. Tinsley defeated in 1992.
        Before his forced withdrawal, Mr. Tinsley provided evidence that the souped-up Chinook still needed more soup. He had fought the computer to six straight draws.
        Mr. Tinsley once attributed his awesome mental development to a childhood belief that his parents favored his twin.
        A mediocre checkers player as a child, he began his ascent at the age of 14 when he stumbled on a book on checkers while researching a math problem at the Ohio State University library.
        A fierce competitor who acknowledged that he hated to lose more than he loved to win, Mr. Tinsley developed a virtual obsession for a game whose appeal never ceased to captivate him.
        "Checkers can get quite a hold on you," he once said. "Its beauty is just overwhelming -- the mathematics, the elegance, the precision. It's capable of wrapping you all up."
        A Christian who worked for years making an outline of the Old Testament from the New Testament perspective, Mr. Tinsley scoffed at repeated suggestions that his mastery of the Chinook computer proved that his intelligence was somehow other worldly.
        "I'm human," he said. "It's just that I have a better programmer than Chinook. God gave me a logical mind."
        Mr. Tinsley was a native of Ironton, Ohio. In addition to his sister, he is survived by two brothers, Ed, of Sarasota, Fla., and Joe, of Thornville, Ohio.
      