
        Richard Joyce Smith, who as a trustee helped to guide the New Haven Railroad through a long and tricky bankruptcy reorganization, died at his home in Southport, Conn., on Wednesday. He was 92.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, according to the family.
        Mr. Smith, who spent most of his career as a lawyer, gained prominence when he was appointed trustee in 1961 to guide the New Haven through a long process that ended with the railroad being bought by the Penn Central in 1975.
        Mr. Smith, who had spent decades commuting on the railroad between his homes in Westport, Conn., and Southport and the offices of the Manhattan law firm of Whitman & Ransom, said in an interview in 1977 that one reason a Federal judge had made him the bankruptcy trustee was that he had an intimate knowledge of the railroad.
        His aim in the New Haven case, he said, was not to allow any groups to get special advantages.
        It was also his ability to represent competing interests that gave him his second major job as a trustee in 1975, when he was appointed to sell off the ITT Corporation's stake in the Avis car rental company as part of an antitrust settlement.
        Mr. Smith, who was born in Hartford, studied utility law at Yale Law School, where he later taught. In 1934, he joined Whitman & Ransom. He became active in politics, serving as campaign manager for Gov. Wilbur L. Cross.
        He became a member of the Fairfield County Board of Education, then of the Connecticut Board of Education. Believing that younger people were better qualified to oversee education, he resigned at age 67 as a trustee of Fairfield University and of the Canterbury School, in New Milford.
        He did not apply the same thinking to his work as a lawyer, which he continued well into his 70's, saying that it was better to keep working because as long as "your memory doesn't go back on you, your professional instincts develop as you grow older."
        He retired as a senior partner from Whitman & Ransom in 1983.
        His wife, Sheila Alexander, died in 1984.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sheila Joyce Smith Jackson of Santa Monica, Calif.; five sons: Peter Bennet and Andrew A., both of New York City, Timothy H. and Wilford A., both of Fairfield, Conn., and Christopher H., of Jacksonville, Fla., 20 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      