
        Theodore Ellenoff, a founder of the New York law firm of Squadron, Ellenoff, Plesent, Sheinfeld & Sorkin and a former president of the American Jewish Committee, died yesterday at Westchester County Medical Center. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan and Westchester, N.Y.
        He suffered a heart attack, said his daughter, Debra Ellenoff.
        Mr. Ellenoff was long an active member of the American Jewish Committee, a New York-based group that works to protect the civil and religious rights of Jews in the United States and abroad. As chairman of the civil rights committee of the group's New York chapter in the 1960's, Mr. Ellenoff conducted a survey of mutual savings banks in New York and charged that 50 of the banks systematically excluded Jews from top management positions.
        He became president of the American Jewish Committee in 1985, and spoke out on a number of international issues concerning Jews -- such as urging the United States to respond to the growing number of Soviet refugees and criticizing a United Nations vote to condemn an Israeli attack on Tunisia.
        In 1988, Mr. Ellenoff started the Armonk Institute, which was created to promote exchanges between Jewish communities and Germany.
        Working with German organizations, the Armonk Institute sent Jewish and German students to live with host families in the United States and Germany. The institute also organized exchanges of teachers.
        Mr. Ellenoff helped found Squadron, Ellenoff -- then known as Squadron, Ellenoff, Plesent & Lehrer -- in 1972 with Howard Squadron, when the two lawyers merged their small firms. Mr. Ellenoff, who had gained recognition in the field of initial public offerings, headed the firm's corporate securities practice, while Mr. Squadron headed the litigation practice.
        In 1986, Mr. Ellenoff stepped down as chairman of the corporate department, but he remained active on the firm's management committee until his death.
        Mr. Ellenoff was born in the Bronx. He received his bachelor's degree from New York University. In 1948, he received his law degree from Harvard University.
        He was hired after college by William A. Shea, who later formed the law firm of Shea & Gould. Mr. Ellenoff soon started his own practice with a friend, Irving Gartenberg.
        Besides his daughter, Debra, Mr. Ellenoff is survived by his wife of 40 years, Lois; two sons, Gregory and Douglas, and three grandchildren.
      