
        John R. White, a New York realtor who set a price record in 1980 when he negotiated the $400 million sale of the Pan Am Building to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Wednesday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 75.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack he suffered late last year, his family said.
        As the chairman of Landauer Associates, an international consulting company specializing the complex real estate transactions of large corporations, Mr. White had long been an expert in the Manhattan skyscraper market.
        But nothing had quite prepared him for the complexities he encountered when Pan American World Airways, facing a financial squeeze that would lead to its bankruptcy a decade later, placed its flagship headquarters building on the market in 1980.
        The 59-story landmark, on Park Avenue just north of Grand Central Terminal, had been the world's largest commercial office building when it opened in 1963 with 2.25 million square feet of rentable space, and assessing its value in the buoyant 1980 New York real estate market proved daunting.
        To project the value of leases, and factor in other financial considerations, Mr. White's company had to design its own computer program, and the eventual private sale brochure filled 65 pages.
        To guarantee confidentiality, Mr. White alone received and handled bids, which were hand-delivered to him by top executives of the bidding institutions. Nine of the bids exceeded $325 million, for a building that had cost just $115 million to construct 17 years earlier.
        When the sale to Metropolitan Life was announced on July 28, 1980, Mr. White described the $400 million price as the largest ever paid for a single building -- a record, he modestly suggested, that resulted from the building's unusual size. Maybe so, but the price also worked out to a record $177 a square foot, or $41 a foot more than another Park Avenue landmark, the Seagram Building, had attracted the year before.
        In addition to setting a sales record, the transaction also became a footnote to legal history. Because the transaction had been structured so that it was not the building, but the stock in its single-asset corporate parent that was sold, Pan Am escaped all but $125 of the $4 million New York City real estate transfer tax that would have been due.
        In the resulting furor, the law was changed to close the loophole for future transactions.
        The sale of the Pan Am Building may have been a special achievement, but Mr. White had long been a leading figure in real estate, one whose expertise extended from urban skyscrapers to suburban shopping malls and rural industrial sites.
        He also played important roles in transactions involving the General Motors Building and Rockefeller Center in New York, L'Enfant Plaza in Washington and the Spring Hill, Tenn., site of the General Motors Saturn division.
        He also wrote widely on the economics, financing and valuation of real estate, and taught at both New York and Columbia universities.
        To achieve his business success, Mr. White, a native of New York, had to go beyond his Harvard education, which he did by attending night classes to obtain a master's degree in business administration from New York University.
        "That degree was my salvation," he once said. "Up to then my education was mostly in things like English and history."
        After serving in Coast Guard intelligence in World War II, Mr. White broke into New York real estate in 1946 as a broker with Byrne, Bowman & Forshay. He moved to Brown, Harris, Stevens residential real estate company in 1954 and joined Landauer in 1963. He headed the company from 1972 to 1985, when he became honorary chairman.
        He is survived by his wife, Gloria Eunice Pedersen; three sons, Geoffrey, of Philadelphia; Stuart, of Cuenca, Ecuador, and Randall Bruce White of London, and four grandchildren.
      