
        Peter Wright, a British intelligence operative whose bestselling spy-and-tell memoir, "Spycatcher," embarrassed and angered the Government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died on Thursday at a hospital in Australia. He was 78 and had retired to Tasmania in 1976.
        He died in his sleep after many years of ill health, his friend and executor, Peter Murray, told reporters in Sydney.
        The response of Mrs. Thatcher and her Conservative Government had as much to do with the book's success as had its content, built largely on circumstantial evidence and largely not provable. The Thatcher Government launched an international legal campaign against book and author in Australia well before before its first publication in 1987, in the United States.
        The overarching theme of "Skycatcher" was a concern -- some critics said obsession -- about Soviet penetration of the Western intelligence apparatus. He detailed instances of it he encountered in more then 20 years as a senior official of M.I.5, his country's counterintelligence service.
        Perhaps his most contentious assertion was that Sir Roger Hollis, who headed M.I.5 from 1956 to 1963, spied for the K.G.B. A "mole hunter," Mr. Wright was convinced that Hollis was the "fifth man" in a quintet of Soviet agents in British intelligence, along with Anthony Blunt, Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean and Kim Philby. The Government had asserted years earlier that Hollis had been investigated and cleared.
        Mrs. Thatcher declared that Mr. Wright "owes a lifelong service of confidence to the Crown" and pressed action under Britain's strict Official Secrets Act.
        Her Government argued at home that Mr. Wright's tales were essentially just that. At the same time her Cabinet Secretary had to tell a skeptical Australian court that they were essentially correct and should be suppressed as a threat to Britain's national security.
        The Australian courts threw the case out in 1988, ordering Britain to to bear court costs.
        By then Viking Penguin had published the American edition and publishers in other countries followed. Banned in Britain, the book became a runaway best seller elsewhere.
        The Government obtained a court ban forbidding newspapers to print anything about the book or the Australian court proceedings. The press, at first obliquely then defiantly, circumvented the ban, which appeals judges refused to make permanent.
        Peter Maurice Wright was born in Chesterfield, England. His education was cut short by World War II, when he worked on technical projects in submarine warfare. After the war he began to work for M.I.5 part-time as an unpaid "scientific adviser."
        He joined full-time in 1954 as its first salaried scientist and campaigned for updating its antiquated technology enough to protect the agency while spying on the K.G.B. He was promoted to joint deputy head of the directorate of science in 1962 and then served as head of the research division in the the counterespionage department from 1967 until his retirement in 1976.
        Mr. Wright's survivors include his wife of 56 years, Lois; two daughters, Tessa W. Southern, and Jennifer W. Andrews; and a son, Bevis.
      