
        Christian Pineau, a leader of the French Resistance who became one of postwar France's most active Foreign Ministers, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 90 and had homes in Paris and Vence, a resort in the French Alps.
        A gentlemanly politician and Socialist, he served as Foreign Minister from 1956 to 1958. During his tenure he signed the Treaty of Rome, one of the foundations on which the European Union is built, and spoke for France to a skeptical world in the Suez War in 1956.
        He also sought solutions to France's colonial problems and worked to mitigate the cold war by shifting the focus from military confrontation to closer economic links.
        Christian Paul Francis Pineau was born in Chaumont-en-Bassigny, Haute-Marne, the son of an Army colonel. His father died when he was young and his mother married Jean Giraudoux, the playwright.
        He earned degrees in political science and law, and went to work for the Bank of France.
        With the German occupation, he helped to found an underground newspaper, Liberation, and went on secret missions as a liaison between occupied France and Gen. Charles de Gaulle's Free French headquarters in London. He was captured twice by the Nazis in 1943. Tortured by the Gestapo and sentenced to death, he escaped the firing squad with forged identification papers and he was sent to the Buchenwald concentration camp. He was liberated by American soldiers in 1945.
        In the postwar Fourth Republic, he turned to politics and was elected to the National Assembly. His first Government position, his appointment as Food Supply Minister, came barely three weeks after his release from Buchenwald. He held a variety of cabinet posts in a succession of short-lived Governments. Just before he took charge of the Foreign Ministry he was designated Prime Minister but failed to cobble together a cabinet.
        A courteous, well-dressed and modest man of distinguished bearing, Mr. Pineau once said the motto of his foreign policy was "negotiate, negotiate again, negotiate always."
        He wrote children's books as well as memoirs of the Resistance, the Suez crisis, the Treaty of Rome and Nikita S. Khrushchev. His first children's book was titled "Tales From I Don't Know When" and dedicated to Giraudoux, his stepfather.
      