
        Julius Hemphill, the saxophonist and composer who helped to found the World Saxophone Quartet and who was among the most important musicians of his generation, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said his companion, Ursula Oppens.
        At his peak, Mr. Hemphill was an extraordinarily evocative composer and saxophonist. His compositions and arrangements for the World Saxophone Quartet and his most recent group, the Julius Hemphill Sextet, used the sound of massed reeds to conjure up decades of black musical forms.
        At times, his harmonies approached the luxury of Duke Ellington's reed writing and the opulence of the big-band tradition. At other times, his work recalled the shouting intensity of the church. Mr. Hemphill's writing was in part based on rhythm-and-blues, and his compositions never strayed far from the blues sensibility, the slightly acid tinge that turned his compositions into something profound.
        As an alto saxophonist he had absorbed the lessons of Ornette Coleman's style, and produced a distinct version of his own. He was a thoughtful improviser with a hard tone who could scream or carefully execute a melody. And he knew the power of the riff: his improvisations were always rhythmic.
        Mr. Hemphill was a product of Fort Worth, his hometown, where he studied with John Carter, the clarinetist and teacher. In the mid-1960's, he worked with rhythm-and-blues bands, including one led by Ike Turner. In 1966, he moved to St. Louis, where he, along with the saxophonist Oliver Lake, the trumpeter Lester Bowie and the drummer Charles (Bobo) Shaw, among others, founded the Black Artist Group in 1968. The group ultimately included actors and visual artists, and it helped younger musicians; the saxophonist Marty Ehrlich was among its members.
        In 1972, Mr. Hemphill recorded most of two albums, which went on to to become among the most influential recordings of their time. The works, "Dogon A.D." and the first side of " 'Coon Bid'ness," show Mr. Hemphill's abilities as a composer, saxophonist and theorist. Without those albums, a good portion of what happened in the late 1970's and early 80's, in both the new-music and jazz worlds, would not have existed. And he formed his own record label, Mbari Records.
        In 1973, Mr. Hemphill moved to New York and became part of a fertile group of musicians who had come from St. Louis, Chicago and Los Angeles, including the saxophonists Hamiet Bluiett, Arthur Blythe and Mr. Lake. For several years, he composed mixed-media events, including "The Orientation of Sweet Willie Rollbar," which he performed in New York in 1973, and "Obituary: Cosmos for Three Parts," which was performed in New York a year later.
        In 1976, Mr. Hemphill helped to form the World Saxophone Quartet, which featured the work of David Murray, Mr. Bluiett and Mr. Lake. It was that group that brought Mr. Hemphill's writing to a larger audience. Though the group's first concert, held in New Orleans in 1976 was incoherent and formless, the band developed into an extremely precise ensemble. With just four saxophones, it forced both the musicians and audiences to reconsider the relationship of instruments and the rhythm section.
        Mr. Hemphill continued recording on his own, including the important "Roi Boye and the Gotham Minstrels," from 1977, along with an album featuring a big band and a live recording with a funk band. And he performed in improvisational theater in the late 1970's. He left the World Saxophone Quartet in 1989, and founded his sextet in 1991.
        He also wrote "Long Tongues: A Saxophone Opera," which was presented at the Apollo Theater in 1990, and wrote music for the dancer Bill T. Jones's "Last Supper at Uncle Tom's Cabin/The Promised Land." In 1993, his "Plan B" was performed by the Richmond Symphony, and he and his saxophone sextet performed with some regularity in clubs and at festivals around the world.
        In addition to Ms. Oppens, the pianist and new-music specialist, he is survived by two sons, Christopher, of New York, and Anthony, of Chicago.
      