
        Senator John C. Stennis, a courtly Mississippi Democrat who served in the Senate longer than all but one other person in history, died today at St. Dominic-Jackson Memorial Hospital in Jackson, Miss. He was 93 years old.
        Mr. Stennis died of complications of pneumonia, said Rex Buffington, director of the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service at Mississippi State University in Starkville.
        When he retired on Jan. 3, 1989, Mr. Stennis had been in the Senate 41 years, 1 month and 29 days. Only Carl Hayden of Arizona, who retired in 1969 after 41 years and 10 months in the Senate, served longer.
        Although he was president pro tempore of the Senate, a largely honorary position given to the Senator in the majority party who has the most seniority, and was chairman of the Appropriations Committee in the 100th Congress, his role in his last years on Capitol Hill was largely that of patriarch and teacher to younger senators.
        He no longer dominated legislation as he had in the 1960's and 1970's, when he was the most influential voice in Congress on military affairs and when, widely respected for his integrity, diligence and judgment, he was called upon time and again to investigate touchy political matters, particularly those that had embarrassed the Senate. It became routine to refer to him as the conscience of the entire institution.
        In many respects, John Stennis was the last of the Senate's Southern barons -- Democrats elected from one-party states who gained power through seniority and often wielded it autocratically to block the more liberal initiatives of the senators from the rest of the country. His support for the military was unswerving, and his advocacy of racial segregation was unalloyed for most of his career.
        But in style and temperament, Senator Stennis was cut from a mold different from most of the other Southerners who came to power shortly after World War II. He did not drink, smoke, swear in public or use racial epithets. Perhaps more important, he changed with the times, began supporting some civil rights measures, and, in his last elections, he ran well among black voters.
        His colleagues from outside the South did not fear him so much as they liked and admired him. At the height of one of the battles over civil rights legislation that occupied the Senate in the 1960's, Senator Paul H. Douglas, Democrat of Illinois, a leader of the faction supporting the measure, declared, "If I were ever to have to go on trial, I would want John Stennis to be my judge."
        It was his personal qualities that led Senator Stennis's colleagues to choose him so often to head political inquiries. As early as 1954, when he was a junior senator, he was named to the committee that investigated charges against Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin.
        Eight years later, he was put in charge of an investigation of accusations that the Pentagon was muzzling officers who wanted to speak up against Communism. In 1967, he headed the investigation of Senator Thomas J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, that led to Senator Dodd's censure for misuse of funds and to a new code of ethics for the Senate.
        In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon took advantage of Senator Stennis's reputation for integrity and proposed that, instead of turning over the Watergate tapes to the independent prosecutor, he allow the Senator to listen to them and authenticate summaries prepared by the White House.
        Mr. Stennis at first agreed. But when the prosecutor, Archibald Cox, objected to the suggestion and was discharged for his defiance, the Stennis compromise collapsed.
        Mr. Stennis was chairman of the Armed Services Committee at the height of the Vietnam War, and President Nixon relied on him to defend the Administration against countless end-the-war amendments and efforts to cut the Pentagon's budget. More often than not, Mr. Stennis was successful, despite opposition by most of his fellow Democrats.
        Later, when President Jimmy Carter rejected some of the Pentagon's spending requests, Senator Stennis tried to accommodate him, although, personally, he would have preferred a larger military budget.
        Years later, the Senator said in an interview that he never tried to second-guess a President on foreign policy and military matters.
        "I lean with the President on our system of government," he declared, expressing a view that many modern senators consider old-fashioned. "Makes no difference who he is. I would back those fellows on a lot of things."
        While he often counseled young senators and helped them through the parliamentary maze that the Senate, over time, has constructed for itself, Mr. Stennis in his later years seemed to long for the days when junior senators bided their time and held their tongues.
        "I'm not blaming them," he once said of his younger colleagues. "They come here on the average well-educated. But they don't have the maturity, if I may use that term. They don't have the experience in public affairs that the old-timer had. It takes time to mature."
        John Cornelius Stennis was born on Aug. 3, 1901, in Kemper County in the red clay hills of eastern Mississippi. He was a member of one of the leading families in the rural county. His father was a farmer, but the Stennises were known as professional people -- doctors, lawyers, teachers and legislators.
        John C. Stennis graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Mississippi State University in 1923 and, four years later, received his law degree at the University of Virginia. A year out of law school, he was elected to the Mississippi Legislature, and that was followed by elections as district prosecuting attorney and circuit judge.
        After 10 years on the bench, he ran in 1947 for the Senate seat vacated by the death of the flamboyant Senator Theodore G. Bilbo and was elected that November over five opponents. "I want to plow a straight furrow right down to the end of my row," Mr. Stennis asserted in that campaign. The philosophy seems to have guided the rest of his political career.
        Until his last campaign, in 1982, he was never seriously challenged for re-election, and even then, facing a 34-year-old Republican, Haley Barbour, who made the Senator's advanced age a major issue, Mr. Stennis won by about 2 to 1.
        In his early days in the Senate, he worked 16 hours a day, staying in the Senate until it adjourned and then studying in the Library of Congress until it closed. He was, as an aide described him, "a plodder, a guy who would go over something once and then again and then again until he finally understood all the complexities."
        Asked once what his hobby was, Mr. Stennis said, "My work is my play and my play is my work." That work often paid off in the currency of special projects for his constituents. The Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway, a massive public works project that opened in Mississippi in 1985, is his pyramid.
        Few other senators had such a commanding presence as Mr. Stennis did in his heyday. When he stood on the floor to speak, he would start by snapping his fingers, making a sound that could be heard in every corner of the chamber, and a page would come scurrying with a glass of water.
        Then, his throat cleared, he would rise behind the lectern on his desk at the rear of the chamber, and a hush would fall over the Senate. His speeches resembled lectures. He would not tolerate interruptions, often pointing his finger and making a "shush" sound when another senator tried to speak.
        He paced up and down the center aisle as he talked, with such resonance that, even after microphones were installed in the Senate, he often spoke without one.
        His voice remained clear and his mind sharp as he grew older, but he had serious physical problems. He was shot and seriously wounded by a burglar at his home in 1973, and his left leg was amputated in 1984 because of cancer. But each time, he returned to his Senate work much sooner than expected.
        But the injury and the illness took their toll. After he lost his leg, bars were constructed on his desk in the Senate chamber so he could pull himself out of his wheelchair and stand when he delivered one of his rare speeches on the floor.
        Mr. Stennis's friends said he suffered from extreme loneliness after his wife, the former Coy Hines, whom he called "Miss Coy," died in 1983. They had been married more than 50 years.
        After his retirement, Mr. Stennis moved to the Mississippi State University campus at Starkville, the home of the John C. Stennis Institute of Government and the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service, created by Congress to train young leaders Also named for him is NASA's National Space Technology Laboratory near Bay St. Louis, Miss. The John C. Stennis Space Center tests rocket motors. The nation's newest aircraft carrier was christened the John C. Stennis and is scheduled to be commissioned next December.
        "I do believe the most important thing I can do now is to help young people understand the past and prepare for the future," Mr. Stennis said in a 1990 interview while serving as executive-in-residence at Mississippi State.
        In declining health, Mr. Stennis lived in recent years in a nursing home in Madison, near Jackson. He is survived by two children, Margaret Womble, of Winston-Salem, N.C., and John H. Stennis, of Jackson, Miss.
        Mr. Buffington said Mr. Stennis's body will lie in state at the Old Capitol in Jackson on Tuesday from 10 A.M. to 1 P.M., and then at DeKalb Presbyterian Church in DeKalb from 4 to 6 P.M. Graveside services are to be held at the DeKalb Cemetery on Wednesday at 11 A.M.
      