
        The Rev. Carl H. Mau Jr., an American minister who led the international Lutheran movement during a critical period of realignment and initiative in the 1970's and 80's, died last Friday at a convalescent home in Des Moines, Wash., near his home in Seattle. He was 72.
        Colleagues said the cause was cancer.
        As general secretary of the Lutheran World Federation from 1974 to 1985, Mr. Mau helped redefine the relationships between the organization's 120 church bodies that represent some 60 million Lutherans in 68 countries around the world, and led the world's largest Protestant denomination in new and sometimes controversial directions.
        He was in the forefront of the movement to elevate black African churches from a position of dependency into full partnership with Western churches, and in the waning days of the cold war he moved to bring Eastern European churches into mainstream Lutheranism.
        During his tenure, the federation, which was founded in 1947, held its first world assembly in Africa, in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in 1977, and its first in Eastern Europe, in Budapest in 1984.
        At Dar es Salaam he helped push through a resolution declaring apartheid, the policy of strict racial segregation and discrimination then practiced by South Africa, as incompatible with Christian beliefs. When German churches in South Africa failed to disassociate themselves from that nation's racial policies by the 1984 assembly in Budapest, he had them expelled from the federation. They have since returned.
        The decision to hold the federation's governing assembly in Hungary, which was then ruled by a Communist dictatorship, was widely criticized, but by then Mr. Mau's brand of outreach was well established.
        When it was learned, for example, that thousands of ethnic Germans living in the Soviet Union had kept their Lutheranism alive after being sent to Siberia and the Central Asian republics from their Volga Valley homes in the Stalin era, Mr. Mau saw to it that they were supplied with hymnals, Bibles and ministers.
        If it seemed unusual for an American to hold the highest international position in a denomination long dominated by German and other European clerics, Mr. Mau had special credentials.
        He was the sixth generation of an unbroken line of Lutheran ministers in a family that traced its pastoral heritage to 1762, when an ancestor, A. J. F. Mau, became pastor of a church in northern Germany. Mr. Mau, who was born in Seattle, spoke German so fluently that he was accepted as a native of Germany.
        He began his ministry in 1946 as pastor of a church in Portland, Ore., and eventually served churches in Tacoma, Wash., and Washington, D.C., in between and after assignments with the federation.
        He was a graduate of Washington State University, and began his road to prominence in international Lutheranism in 1950 when he became director of the federation's office in Hanover, Germany. It was there that he became a protege of a heroic figure to world Lutherans, Bishop Hanns Lilje, who had been imprisoned by Hitler because of his opposition to Nazi policies.
        With Bishop Lilje holding the honorary post of federation president, Mr. Mau was named associate general secretary in 1964. He became general secretary of the federation's American committee in New York in 1972, and was elected general secretary of the federation in 1974.
        After his retirement in 1989, Mr. Mau was co-chairman of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America's Task Force on Peace, which is to issue its report this summer.
        He is survived by his wife, Thilda; a brother, Frederick, a Lutheran minister in Lodi, Calif.; two sons, Eric and Christian, and a daughter, Joan, who has continued the family tradition into the seventh generation as pastor of the Trinity Lutheran Church in Washington Island, Wis.
      