
        Col. Paul Akst, who administered the military draft in New York City for many years, including during the Vietnam War, died last Saturday at his winter home in Palm Beach, Fla. A resident of Manhattan, he was 83.
        He died after a lengthy illness, his family said.
        Colonel Akst, an Air Force officer, was placed in charge of registration in the city in 1948, when local draft boards were reactivated after World War II. It was a hectic period as tens of thousands of men between 18 and 25 crowded the city's high schools to fill out forms for classification and pre-induction physicals.
        Then, there was little need for draftees. The city's quota, set in Washington, was generally filled by men enlisting on their own.
        Colonel Akst advanced from head of Manpower and Operations to Director of Selective Service for the city in 1955. The Presidential appointment came at the recommendation of Gov. W. Averell Harriman.
        In the 1960's, the Vietnam War and President Lyndon B. Johnson's orders for double the recruitments brought considerable stress to the colonel's task. Many college campuses were wracked by anti-war demonstrations. At one point, administrators at New York University counseled students how to avoid 1A status and stay out of Vietnam.
        Draft evasion spread among young men who dreaded the trip downtown to 39 Whitehall Street for their physical exams and sought a medical "out." As Colonel Akst observed in 1970, "the fact is that people want to fail and find ways to do it."
        Radicals, including black-power militants, openly declared their defiance. Vandals broke into local boards in search of draft records.
        Once Washington decided to pull out of Vietnam, the draft was abolished. And draft boards shut down.
        Colonel Akst retired in 1980.
        He was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and graduated from St. John's University. He received a law degree from Brooklyn Law School. He practiced law for six years before enlisting as an Army private in 1941.
        He was commissioned and served in England as a legal officer and trial judge advocate. Immediately after the war, he was an administrative judge for the Veterans Administration.
        Colonel Akst is survived by his wife of 48 years, Paula Brown Akst; two sons, Mark, of Pompano Beach, Fla., and George, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; three brothers, Mack, of Miami, Robert, of Manhattan, and Ted, of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      