
        Dr. David D. Thompson, who led New York Hospital during 20 years of sweeping medical advances and turbulent upheaval until his retirement as director in 1987, died yesterday at the hospital where he had spent all but two years of an almost 50-year career. He was 72 and lived in Tenafly, N.J.
        The hospital said he died of leukemia.
        The two decades that Dr. Thompson served as director of one of the nation's premier teaching hospitals were a period of vast changes in medicine, among them the introduction of such advanced diagnostic techniques as CAT scans, M.R.I.'s and endoscopic examinations, and the development of a profusion of new therapeutic drugs.
        As the 1,000-bed hospital's budget soared from $39 million when he became director in 1967 to $395 million when he retired in 1987, Dr. Thompson also supervised considerable capital expansion, including the development of the city's first advanced burn unit, new centers for the care of premature infants and for dialysis, and a pronounced shift from inpatient treatment to ambulatory care.
        Dr. Thompson, who made it a point to take time to chat with employees even as his staff grew to more than 5,000, sought a similar rapport with the hospital's patients. He may not have been able to visit them all, but he was responsible for developing one of the nation's first patient-advocate programs.
        For all the accomplishments, Dr. Thompson's tenure was also a period of unusual strain, including a series of well-publicized allegations of medical lapses by the hospital. But whether he was dealing with a siege by demonstrators and the news media during the controversial treatment of the deposed Shah of Iran in 1979, or responding to the charges, recriminations and litigation that followed the deaths of Libby Zion in 1984 and Andy Warhol in 1987, Dr. Thompson faced each succeeding crisis with equanimity.
        "He was so even tempered," his longtime friend and colleague, Dr. John Ellis, said yesterday. "I never heard him say an unkind word about anybody."
        That may have been because wherever he went at New York Hospital and its sister institution, Cornell Medical College, Dr. Thompson was always at home.
        He was born and bred a Cornell man, and except for two years he spent with the National Institutes of Health in lieu of military service in the Korean War, he never strayed from the Big Red fold.
        A native of Ithaca, where his father was a professor of agriculture at Cornell, he graduated from Cornell in 1943, received his medical degree from Cornell in 1946, served both as an intern and resident at New York Hospital and held a succession of positions at both the hospital and the college.
        Although he had a promising career as a researcher into kidney diseases, he was lured into administration by his mentor, Dr. Hugh Luckey, the last man to serve as overall director of both the college and the hospital.
        Dr. Thompson, known as a man who was not afraid of change, earned his reputation as a medical innovator early on. At a time when it was a cliche for a doctor to marry a nurse, Dr. Thompson married a doctor.
        "I was the only girl in the class," she said yesterday, "and I married the cream of the crop."
        In addition to his wife, Lynn, he is survived by three sons, David Jr., of Niantic, Conn., Richard of Meriden, N.H., and Peter of Yarmouth, Me.; a daughter, Catherine McKee of St. Mary's, Ga.; a brother, John, of Ithaca, and eight granchildren.
      