
        Francisco Moncion, a charter member of the New York City Ballet who danced its leading roles for nearly 40 years, died on Saturday at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, said a friend, Bentley Roton, the president of the Kaatsbaan International Dance Center in Tivoli, N.Y.
        Mr. Moncion left an indelible stamp on some of the greatest works George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins choreographed for the City Ballet. In so doing, he did much to define the company's artistic profile. His dramatic power and sensual, even feline suppleness were identified with the roles he created in many premieres.
        One of the most memorable was the Dark Angel in the Balanchine-Stravinsky "Orpheus," which the dancer colored with a forceful, brooding presence. Mr. Moncion was also identified with Mr. Robbins's "Afternoon of a Faun," to which he brought unsurpassed animal-like tension and tropical languor.
        In 1949, Balanchine's version of "Firebird" saw him as an exotic Oriental prince and matched his star power to that of Maria Tallchief. Mr. Moncion's sinister death figure in "La Valse" was another of his early and major Balanchine roles. In 1967, Balanchine again used the dancer's mysterious aura in the "Emeralds" segment of "Jewels." Blessed with theatrical presence more than a strong classical technique, Mr. Moncion was nonetheless a superb partner, as he showed as late as 1970 in the turbulent duet with Patricia McBride that was the highlight of Mr. Robbins's "In the Night."
        Mr. Moncion was born in La Vega, Dominican Republic, and came to New York as a child. He began his dance studies in 1939 at Balanchine's School of American Ballet and made his stage debut in 1942 with the New Opera Company, for which Balanchine was choreographer. After serving in the Army, he danced in operettas choreographed by Balanchine, and in 1944 he was a soloist with the Marquis de Cuevas's International Ballet.
        When Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein founded Ballet Society, the precursor to the City Ballet, in 1946, Mr. Moncion was cast in such experimental works as "The Four Temperaments" and "The Triumph of Bacchus and Ariadne." When the Society became the City Ballet in 1948, Mr. Moncion stayed on and became its longest tenured principal dancer. He was listed on the roster through spring 1985.
        By then he had moved into mime parts in "Don Quixote," "The Nutcracker" and "Coppelia." But in earlier years he had danced, often vigorously, in scores of ballets, including "The Prodigal Son."
        Mr. Moncion, who was also a painter, choreographed several works for the City Ballet. The most successful, "Pastorale" (1957), was restaged by the Pennsylvania Ballet.
        At his death, Mr. Moncion established a scholarship fund to promote dance training for Hispanic youths, administered by Kaatsbaan.
      