
        Gilbert Moses, who directed award-winning plays and musicals by Melvin Van Peebles, Ed Bullins, Imamu Baraka and other writers, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 52.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, said Eda Godel Hallinan, his companion.
        Mr. Moses was a co-founder of the Free Southern Theater, a pioneering black touring company. In 1976 he and George Faison directed, staged and choreographed the Leonard Bernstein-Alan Jay Lerner musical "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue" on Broadway. In his diverse career, Mr. Moses also worked frequently in television.
        The director's emergence coincided with the proliferation of other black theater artists, beginning in 1969 with Mr. Baraka, then known as LeRoi Jones, and his play "Slave Ship" at the Chelsea Theater Center. Mr. Moses won an Obie Award for his striking production. After directing plays at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco and the Arena Stage in Washington, he moved to Broadway in 1971 as the director of Mr. Van Peebles's earthy inner-city musical, "Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death."
        Although Mr. Moses's 1972 Lincoln Center production of "The Duplex" was disowned by the author, Mr. Bullins, three years later he went on to direct Mr. Bullins's "Taking of Miss Janie," at the Henry Street Settlement and then at Lincoln Center. The New York Drama Critics Circle named "Miss Janie" the best new American play of the season.
        Mr. Moses was born in Cleveland. When he was 9, he began acting in plays at Karamu House, Cleveland's celebrated community theater. While studying at Oberlin College he spent a year in Paris at the Sorbonne, then left college to take part in the civil rights movement.
        Inspired by the work of Jean Vilar and the Theatre National Populaire, he decided to immerse himself in socially relevant theater. From that idea came the Free Southern Theater, which he and John O'Neal toured through the South in the 1960's with plays ranging from "In White America" to "Waiting for Godot." Pressured by threats from hostile white Southerners and by the arrest of members of the company, he eventually left the Free Southern Theater to recover from what he called "a shattering experience." At the same time, his marriage to Denise Nicholas, an actress with the company, ended. Moving to New York, he married Wilma Butler. Later he was married to the actress and singer Dee Dee Bridgewater. After a brief return to the Free Southern Theater, he worked mostly onstage and on television.
        Following his initial theatrical successes, Mr. Moses directed J. E. Gaines's "Don't Let It Go to Your Head," Phillip Hayes Dean's "Every Night When the Sun Goes Down," "Louis" (a musical about the life of Louis Armstrong), "Rigoletto" for the San Francisco Opera Company and "Dreaming Emmett," by Toni Morrison. He directed two parts of "Roots" and episodes of many television series, including "Law and Order" and "Benson," and produced "After-School Specials." He made two movies, "The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh" and "Willie Dynamite" (starring Diana Sands). He also wrote music and poetry, and taught both theater and film.
        In a 1972 interview in The New York Times, Mr. Moses called for a deeper artistic investigation of the lives of black people in the United States. "We as blacks are starved for images of ourselves all over this country," he said.
        In addition to his companion, he is survived by his mother, Bertha, of Cleveland; two daughters, Tsia, of New York, and China, of Paris; two brothers, and four sisters.
      