
        Hannes Alfven, a Nobel laureate who was largely responsible for founding a field of study that figures in many aspects of physics, died Sunday night at his home in Djursholm, Sweden. He was 86.
        His death occurred after a bout of influenza, according to the University of California at San Diego, where he was a part-time professor.
        The specialty for which Dr. Alfven (pronounced ALL-vain) shared a Nobel Prize in 1970 is the study of electrically conducting fluids moving in a magnetic field. Known as magnetohydrodynamics, or MHD, it occurs in stars, ionized gases and even liquid metals.
        In 1942 he predicted that magnetic field lines in a plasma, like stretched rubber bands, could transmit a wave. At first this idea was ridiculed, but such phenomena were eventually observed and came to be known as Alfven waves. In earth-bound physics and astrophysics, they can act as major particle accelerators.
        Recognition of his pivotal role was slow in coming. After Dr. Alfven received the 1970 Nobel award in physics, which he shared with Louis Neal of France, Alexander J. Dessler, a leading astrophysicist at Rice University in Houston, said that earlier, despite Dr. Alfven's "massive contributions" to science, his ideas were dismissed or treated with condescension.
        "He was often forced to publish his papers in obscure journals," Dr. Dessler said, and he was continually disputed by other specialists in his field of research. In 1939, Dr. Alfven wrote a theory of magnetic storms and the auroral displays in the atmosphere that strongly influenced thinking on those subjects 30 years later, but with little recognition of its origin, Dr. Dessler said.
        Dr. Alfven's work was critical because most matter in the universe, including that forming the Sun and other stars, is believed to be an ionized gas, or plasma. The gas blowing out from the Sun, or "solar wind," is such a plasma. On reaching Earth, Dr. Alfven said, it follows the planet's magnetic lines of force down into the atmosphere, forming auroral displays near both poles. His waves also helped explain the doughnut-shaped Van Allen radiation belts that encircle Earth.
        Dr. Alfven recognized that sunspots were formed by powerful magnetic fields within the Sun. His plasma waves figured in various proposals for fusion reactors. Originally, in Sweden, he had urged extensive development of nuclear power, but then became doubtful about its long-term safety. In 1975 he told a California legislative body that it would produce large amounts of radioactive material whose disposal would be a major problem.
        Fearful of a nuclear war, he participated in the East-West "Pugwash" conferences that sought to avoid such confrontations.
        Hannes Olof Gosta Alfven was born in Norrkoping, Sweden. He recently divided his time between the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm and the university in San Diego.
        Both of his parents were physicians. After early schooling in Norrkoping, he studied at the University of Uppsala, Sweden, and received his doctorate there in 1934. He moved to the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm in 1940.
        Dr. Alfven was described by associates, including his friend Dr. Gustaf Arrhenius at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, as "a gentle wild man." He was courtly and self-effacing, but "wild" when it came to questioning established doctrine and fighting for his own ideas.
        Some of them are still not popular. He argued against the big-bang theory of cosmology, which holds that the universe began with a gigantic explosion. Instead, his cosmology was derived from that of his fellow Swede, Oskar Klein, who envisioned a universe that oscillated between expansion and contraction.
        Dr. Alfven said the universe was formed of equal amounts of matter and antimatter. This material, he believed, was segregated into separate celestial bodies like stars and asteroids, isolated from one another. But a new oscillation began when the universe contracted enough for the matter and antimatter to meet and react explosively, starting a new expansion.
        His views on how the solar system formed into the Sun and planets anticipated much of what is now widely believed. He believed that a thin plasma and embedded magnetic fields exist between the planets. At the time, this was rejected in the incorrect belief that space there is a vacuum.
        In 1971 Dr. Alfven was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal by the Soviet Academy of Sciences for "outstanding achievement in plasma physics and astrophysics." He was also given the Franklin Gold Medal by the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States and the Royal Society of London.
        His books included "Cosmical Electrodynamics," published in 1950, and "Origin of the Solar System," published in 1954.
        In 1935 he married Kerstin Maria Erikson, who predeceased him. He is survived by five children, all of whom live in Sweden.
      