
        Robert Wilson Crawford, who helped to build and expand Philadelphia's parks and whose ideas and methods were widely copied in other cities, died on Tuesday, his 89th birthday, at the Manor Care nursing home in Walnut Creek, Calif.
        He had moved to Walnut Creek in 1981 after retiring as Philadelphia's Commissioner of Recreation.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said Dean Tice, executive director of the National Recreation and Park Association.
        Much of Mr. Crawford's career was spent persuading government officials to increase the number of parks and recreational programs. When he came to Philadelphia in 1952, for example, the city had 95 recreational areas. By the time he left, it had 815, including parks, playgrounds, swimming pools and community centers.
        He also helped to transform the way cities and residents viewed parks.
        In the 1930's, when he began in recreation, parks were considered ornamentation. But in positions on the East and West Coasts, Mr. Crawford was among the first to advocate transforming them into recreational areas for a community with diverse interests and needs.
        Under his leadership in Philadelphia, parks added trails for hikers, basketball courts for people who used wheelchairs, and exercise programs based in community centers for the elderly. He also set up advisory groups to identify the recreational needs in specific neighborhoods.
        In an approach that was widely appropriated, parents were given a voice in planning the use of playgrounds after land was cleared for them and equipment was installed. He also made available mobile swimming pools that could be brought into neighborhoods when requested.
        From 1934 to 1944, he held posts as recreation director in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., in the Red Hook Public Housing Project in Brooklyn and in Montclair, N.J. During World War II, he was a director of recreation for the Navy in California and in the Philippines. He was superintendent of recreation in Oakland, Calif., for five years before moving to Philadelphia.
        He had an undergraduate degree from Des Moines University and a master's from New York University.
        His wife, Dorothy Mollenhoff Crawford, died in 1992. He is survived by two sons, Robert W. Jr., of Lincolnshire, Ill., and Daniel M., of Kentfield, Calif.; two sisters, Ruth Larsen and Jean Bernard, both of Des Moines; a brother, Andrew, of Broomfield, Colo., and six grandchildren.
      