
        Arturo Frondizi, a former President of Argentina who bolstered the country's economy through a series of unpopular austerity measures during four tumultuous years in office from 1958 to 1962, died in Buenos Aires yesterday. He was 86.
        His family said he died of a heart ailment.
        It is a reflection of the complexity of Argentine politics that Dr. Frondizi owed both his election in 1958 and his military ouster in 1962 to the support of the exiled dictator Juan D. Peron, a man he had earlier bitterly opposed as a member of Congress and as a candidate for Vice President on the Radical Civic Union ticket in 1951.
        Dr. Frondizi had a history as a doctrinare, if somewhat eclectic, liberal ideologue, but he was above all a pragmatist.
        He had consistently opposed Juan Peron, the charismatic army colonel swept into power in 1946 and re-elected in 1951. After Peron was overthrown by the military in 1955 and his party was banned, Dr. Frondizi seized his chance.
        Recognizing that Peron's supporters, who formed the largest voting bloc, had nowhere else to turn, he curtailed his criticism of their leader and won Peron's tacit endorsement from exile even as he was successfully courting the chief anti-Peron factions, the military, the Catholic Church, wealthy industrialists and even the Communists.
        When Dr. Frondizi was accused of betraying his own principles, he had a ready reply. "Let's be frank," he said, "those who refuse votes are fools."
        Running against Ricardo Balbin, the man who had headed his own Radical party ticket in 1951, Dr. Frondizi won the 1958 election by a two-to-one margin.
        Taking office at a time of economic distress, he again put pragmatism first, this time above his own political popularity, imposing a series of austerity measures to curb inflation and attract foreign investment, primarily to the country's ailing oil industry.
        His measures, including a currency devaluation, would eventually be credited with laying the groundwork for an economic resurgence, but the immediate effect was to put a serious burden on the poor and middle classes.
        The result was an almost constant series of strikes, demonstrations and clashes with the police, requiring the intervention of the military.
        His undoing, however, was not his economic measures, but keeping a political promise to lift the ban on Peronist candidates and parties.
        When the Peronists won a series of congressional elections in early 1962, the military, which had also become alarmed after learning that Dr. Frondizi had met secretly with Che Guevara, an emissary of the Cuban dictator, Fidel Castro, withdrew its support, forcing Dr. Frondizi's resignation that March.
        Dr. Frondizi, whose parents were Italian immigrants, was born on Oct. 28, 1908, at Paso de los Libros in the northern province of Corrientes.
        He was the 13th of 14 children, a place in the family pecking order that may help explain his fierce devotion to democratic principles.
        As a brilliant law student at the University of Buenos Aires he was involved in so many student demonstrations that the police branded him a "chronic student," and wondered how he found time to study.
        Even so, he made his first political mark in Radical Party politics when he turned down the university's highest award because it would have been presented by a military dictator.
        As a lawyer, Dr. Frondizi defended Communist agitators and read widely, particularly on economics.
        Indeed as he gained a name for himself as a leader of the party's minority delegation in Congress, it was widely assumed he would be named Economic Minister if the party ever returned to power.
        Dr. Frondizi continued his interest in economics after his presidency, forming the Movement for Integration and Development, a small party favoring state protection for industrialization.
        Although he continued to speak out on public issues, Dr. Frondizi was never again more than a marginal political figure.
        Dr. Frondizi, whose wife and only daughter died earlier, leaves no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  April 21, 1995, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Arturo Frondizi, a former Argentine President, misstated his age and his birthdate in some copies. He was 86 and was born in 1908.
      