
        Thomas F. Mandel, a computer specialist who helped develop on-line computer services, died on Wednesday at Stanford Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 49 and lived in Mountain View, Calif.
        The cause was lung cancer, which he had disclosed on the electronic forums he helped create.
        Mr. Mandel was a management consultant at SRI International, specializing in the development of computer services. He used a technique known as scenario-based planning to analyze the impact of new technology on the communications, publishing, paper and automobile industries.
        His interest in communications led him to explore local computer bulletin boards in the San Francisco area, most notably the Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link, better known as the Well. He concluded from early studies that the role of computer networks would be as a medium for new types of person-to-person communications, rather than as a distribution mechanism for printed information.
        Prolific and strongly opinionated, he became one of the most visible and controversial characters on the Well. "He brought some kind of intellectual respectability to the high-tech bull session," said Howard Rheingold, author of the book about the on-line networks, "The Virtual Community."
        Time Inc. hired Mr. Mandel as a consultant in 1993 to develop electronic versions of its magazines and managed the company's bulletin boards at Amercia Online.
        A self-described "cyberholic," Mr. Mandel struggled to balance the allure of the new medium with his professional and personal life. When he was diagnosed with inoperable cancer six months ago, he discussed the progress of his disease in various computer forums.
        Two weeks ago he bid farewell to his on-line companions. "I cannot tell you how sad and grief-stricken I am that I cannot stay to play and argue with you much longer," he wrote.
        Mr. Mandel was born in Chicago and reared in Hawaii. He enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1965 and served in Vietnam. Returning to the United States, he earned a B.A. degree in futuristics from the University of Hawaii in 1972.
        He is survived by his wife, Maria A. Syndicus; his mother, Edna Bunte Mandel of San Mateo, Calif.; a sister, Susan B. Cathey of Fresno, Calif., and a brother, Steve Mandel of New York.
      