
        Chen Yun, a conservative Communist Party patriarch whose revulsion to Western capitalism served as an important brake on the pace of economic reform in China during the last 16 years, died on Monday. He was 89.
        A lengthy obituary read on state-run television tonight said he died of an undisclosed illness. The obituary, issued by the Central Committee of the governing Chinese Communist Party, described Mr. Chen as a "great proletarian revolutionary and statesman, an outstanding Marxist, one of the pioneers and founders of China's socialist economic construction, and a long-tested, brilliant leader of the party and state."
        Mr. Chen's funeral arrangements were not announced, but foreign diplomats here said any memorial service would be examined for points of political significance due to the political transition under way with the decline in the health of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, who is 90.
        There were no appearances by Mr. Chen's family members on television, only a photographic portrait of Mr. Chen with a black border. Mr. Chen's son, Chen Yuan, is a senior party official and deputy governor of the central bank.
        Like Mr. Deng, Mr. Chen was one of the Communist revolutionaries who founded the People's Republic of China in 1949. And though he cooperated with Mr. Deng during much of his career, in the last decade he led a faction of Marxist ideologues and conservative central planners in a rivalry with Mr. Deng that, at times, seemed to threaten China's economic transformation.
        Indeed, many Chinese have felt in recent years that the future direction of reform could rest on which of the two most senior leaders, Mr. Deng or Mr. Chen, would survive the other.
        One Communist Party official who is staunch supporter of reform said today that while Mr. Chen was respected, there was a sense of relief being expressed in some sectors of the party that Mr. Chen's death has preceded Mr. Deng's.
        "If Deng had died first," he said, "I think we would have been facing three years of stagnation of the whole process of reform."
        In late February, Mr. Chen was admitted to an exclusive ward of Beijing Hospital reserved for party leaders, and reportedly received frequent dialysis treatments for kidney failure.
        Mr. Chen was last seen in public in February 1994 in a televised greeting from party leaders during the Lunar New Year celebrations. He looked remarkably fit at the time, much more so than Mr. Deng, who also made his last television appearance at that time.
        Mr. Deng is said to be under the care of a team of physicians at his home just north of the Forbidden City.
        Although Mr. Deng established himself as paramount leader in 1978, he was only first among equals within the group of revolutionary elders who survived Mao Zedong, who died in 1976. Mr. Chen, although a year younger than Mr. Deng, joined the party earlier and, therefore, had slightly greater seniority.
        Mr. Chen proved to be a formidable political obstacle with whom Mr. Deng was forced to compromise over policy and the makeup of the Communist Party leadership, whose members remain divided along ideological lines on political reform, economics and how to carry out China's long-delayed modernization.
        Mr. Chen's death could alter the balance of power among the surviving revolutionary elders who selected and serve as patrons to China's current leaders.
        A colorless figure who stayed out of the limelight at the top of the party, Mr. Chen deeply mistrusted Western democracy and resented market economics.
        Where Deng launched reforms that created "special economic zones" near Hong Kong and across from Taiwan to boost foreign investment and experiment with free market policies, Mr. Chen sought to prevent the drift toward capitalism. He refused to visit the bustling new factory towns, which sprouted with gleaming high rise office towers and hotels. Mr. Chen was known to focus on the underside of reform. He saw the resurgence of corruption, prostitution and gambling, vices that, to him, were a sign of failure and a betrayal of Communist ideals.
        One of his daughters once explained his aversion to Western culture by saying to an American university professor: "You have to understand one thing: My father hates America." Unlike Mr. Deng, Mr. Chen never visited the United States and made only one recorded foreign trip in his life -- to Moscow.
        Like Mr. Deng, he believed that economic incentives and foreign investment could help China, but as a central planner he believed market forces should be "contained" like a bird in a cage.
        "One cannot hold a bird tightly in one's hand without killing it," he told party officials in 1982. "It must be allowed to fly, but only within its cage. Without a cage, it would fly away and become lost."
        In its official obituary tonight, the party emphasized the support Mr. Chen gave to Mr. Deng over the years, asserting that it was Mr. Chen who "earnestly suggested and resolutely supported having Comrade Deng Xiaoping once again participate in the work of the central leadership" in 1977 after Mr. Deng had been purged by Mao shortly before his death a year earlier.
        Mr. Chen is praised for helping to rescue China from the disastrous economic policies of the 1950's under Mao, including the Great Leap Forward, which touched off a famine killing an estimated 30 million Chinese.
        The party document said that Mr. Chen supported Mr. Deng's assessment of Mao's historical mistakes. But it also seeks to bind the three men together in the pantheon of Communist leaders.
        Mr. Chen, it says, "stressed time an again that Mao's merits were of primary importance and that his mistakes were secondary."
        Born Liao Chenyun in a rural county that is now part of greater Shanghai, Mr. Chen dropped his surname during the Communist underground movement of the 1920's. With no formal education after primary school, Mr. Chen at 15 was already working at the Shanghai Commercial Press, where he was exposed toemerging political theories.
        Within five years, he led a strike in the publishing house and joined the Chinese Communist Party, founded four years earlier. With no military training, he was soon an urban guerrilla, participating in armed uprisings in Shanghai and in clashes with the Nationalist forces under Chiang Kai-shek.
        He was elected to the party's Central Committee in 1931 and did not give up his seat for 56 years, making him the longest serving member of the ruling body, from which most other top leaders were purged by Mao during the Cultural Revolution. Mr. Chen only stepped down in 1987, when Deng convinced him to go into semi-retirement as chairman of a Central Advisory Commission.
        Mr. Chen made the Long March with Mao and the Communist armies that were forced into a punishing retreat in 1934. It turned into a year-long rout in which thousands perished. Before the tattered army reached Yanan, Mr. Chen was dispatched back to Shanghai and from there traveled to Moscow "to report the strategy of the Red Army to the Communist International," the obituary says.
        With the founding of the People's Republic, Mr. Chen was named vice premier in charge of financial and economic affairs. Using the Soviet Union as a model, he was an architect of China's first five-year plans for agriculture and industry.
        But Mao's obsession for China to catch up with industrial nations incited a chaotic period of collectivization in the farm sector and surreal mass movements to make steel in backyard furnaces, in what was known as the Great Leap Forward. They were doomed to fail.
        Mr. Chen, after conducting his own investigations in the countryside, joined the handful of leaders who dared to confront Mao with the evidence of disaster. According to Mao's personal physician, in the spring of 1962, Mr. Chen infuriated the Chinese leader with his reports from the countryside.
        After leading the work team that got China back on its feet after the devastating famine, Mr. Chen took flight. From the early 1960's until after Mao's death, Mr. Chen lived in a self-imposed internal exile, still maintaining his party posts and titles while avoiding Beijing and Mao's wrath.
        With Mao's death, Mr. Chen was among the first of the rehabilitated party leaders to call for Mr. Deng's return from house arrest. Together, they agreed to develop a practical and incentive-based economic reform program to get the Chinese economy moving after the decade-long Cultural Revolution.
        Mr. Chen's politics seemed to defy the labels he eventually garnered as the leader of the "hard-line" faction after the mid-1980's.
        As Richard Baum, a political scientist, pointed out last year, "Chen, a moderate conservative on economic matters, was considerably more permissive politically than many of his peers within the reform coalition."
        In 1979, Mr. Chen opposed Mr. Deng's decision to jail Wei Jingsheng, leader of the Democracy Wall movement, and, 10 years later, was reported to be against the use of military force in bringing an end to the pro-democracy demonstrations at Tiananmen Square. Once force was used, however, Mr. Chen voiced support for the military.
        Mr. Chen is survived by his wife, Yu Ruomu, two sons and three daughters. The sons are Chen Yuan, the central banker, and Chen Fang, who is reportedly married to Song Zhenzhen, the daughter of another revolutionary elder, Song Renqiong. The daughters are Chen Weilan, who holds a high-level party position in Beijing; Chen Weili, a top executive of China Venturetech, the first venture capital and investment banking firm in China, and Chen Weihua, who was persecuted during the Cultural Revolution and married a worker in a county outside Beijing.
      