
       Kate L. Turabian, author of one of the most widely read stylebooks on dissertations, died yesterday morning in her sleep at a retirement home in Los Angeles. She was 94 years old.
        Kate L. Turabian, author of one of the most widely read stylebooks on dissertations, died yesterday morning in her sleep at a retirement home in Los Angeles. She was 94 years old.
        Fifty years ago, while she was a secretary at the University of Chicago and did not have a college degree, she wrote a slender pamphlet describing the correct style for writing college dissertations. The pamphlet eventually became a book called ''A Manual for Writers of Term Papers, Theses, and Dissertations'' and it has sold more than five million copies in five editions.
        The book is considered a definitive work on items such as the use of footnotes and bibliographies.
        She was born Laura Kate Larimore in Chicago on Feb. 26, 1893. After graduating from Hyde Park High School, in Chicago, Mrs. Turabian worked for an advertising agency. She started her career at the University of Chicago in 1925, as a department secretary, and within five years, became a secretary in the registrar's office. Effort to Aid Students
        In 1930 the university appT, Oct. 25 (AP) -
        United Automobile Workers members overwhelmingly approved a new three-year contract with the General Motors Corporation that protects union jobs while freeing management to seek less restrictive work rules, the union announced tonight.
        Members at 152 locals across the country voted 80.7 percent in favor of the agreement, said a union spokesman, Frank Joyce. About half of the union's 330,000 General Motors workers cast ballots, he said.
        In all, 127,047 workers voted to approve the contract, and 30,325 voted against it, Mr. Joyce said.
        The contract is to take effect Monday.
        The union president, Owen Bieber, said the early settlement of contracts with General Motors and the Ford Motor Company will make it easier to organize workers at Japanese-run auto and parts companies.
        The agreements forbid layoffs for most reasons except cuts in production volume because of slow sales. and provide for wage increases of 3 percent the first year and 3 percent lump-sum bonuses in the second and third years.
        The contracts give local unions six months to work out new work rules and other changes that would increase efficiency and improve quality at individual plants.
        General Motors has announced the closing of 16 plants and the elimination of 37,000 jobs by the end of 1990.
      