
       Aaron L. Jacoby, a once influential Democrat who held a series of public offices including that of New York State Public Service Commissioner, died of complications of a stroke early Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 94 years old and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla.
        Aaron L. Jacoby, a once influential Democrat who held a series of public offices including that of New York State Public Service Commissioner, died of complications of a stroke early Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 94 years old and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Jacoby served on the Public Service Commission from 1955 to 1960.
        He was the Democratic-Liberal candidate for State Controller in 1954, but in a dramatic announcement he withdrew only 10 days after his nomination. The withdrawal was based on information that Republicans intended to make a campaign issue out of an old New York City lawsuit involving franchise taxes allegedly owed by a bus company in which he had had an interest.
        Governor W. Averill Harriman, who had expressed full confidence in Mr. Jacoby's honesty and integrity, appointed him to the commission the next July. When Mr. Jacoby left the commission five years later it was to pursue a career in private industry. Orphaned as a Child
        While still a member of the commission, he was named a member of the board of directors of the Penn-Texas Corporation and was later named the corporation's chairman. The company changed its name to the Fairbanks Whitney Corporation. Subsequently, Fairbanks Whitney became Colt Industries Inc.
        Mr. Jacoby was born in Manhattan and spent most of his life in Brooklyn. He was orphaned as a child and in his adult years he became an executive of several child care agencies. He was the executive director of the Brooklyn Hebrew Orphan Asylum in the 1930's. In the 1950's he was president of the New York Jewish Child Care Council.
        Long active in Brooklyn's Democratic party, he ran for Kings County Sheriff and served in that position from 1930 to 1932. In subsequent years he was the county's Register, in charge of county records, among other responsibilities.
        In World War II he was Brooklyn's director of salvage, heading up efforts to recycle paper and metal. In the 1940's and 1950's he was chief clerk of the borough's Surrogate's Court. And in the early 1960's was a member of a triumvirate running the Brooklyn Democratic organization after the resignation of a former leader, Joseph T. Sharkey.
        In the mid-1960's he served on the New York City Parole Commission and the New York State Parole Board.
        A veteran manager of political campaigns in his home borough, he ran the unsuccessful citywide mayoral campaign of Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand Pecora in 1950.
        Mr. Jacoby is survived by his wife, Ana; a son, Donald, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Judith Stone of Mystic, Conn.; three grandsons, and a great grandson.
      