
       Stephen M. Schuetze, an associate professor of biological sciences at Columbia University, was killed in a bicycle accident Tuesday near Payson, Ariz. He was 36 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Stephen M. Schuetze, an associate professor of biological sciences at Columbia University, was killed in a bicycle accident Tuesday near Payson, Ariz. He was 36 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        A spokesman for the Arizona Department of Public Safety, Officer Fred Hughes, said Dr. Schuetze died in an accident with a logging truck on a narrow stretch of State Highway 87, about 10 miles north of Payson. Officer Hughes said it was not clear how the accident occurred.
        Dr. Schuetze was on a long-distance bicycling trip from the Grand Canyon to Nogales, Mexico, with his wife, Roberta Pollock, his brother, Martin, and a group of more than 100 other riders. No one else was injured and no charges have been filed, Officer Hughes said.
        Dr. Schuetze received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering and a bachelor of arts degree, summa cum laude, at Washington University in 1973. He received a master's degree and a doctorate at Harvard University in 1978.
        Dr. Schuetze joined the Columbia faculty as an assistant professor in 1981. In July he was promoted to associate professor with tenure.
        His research concerned mechanisms that enable nerves to communicate with muscles to regulate movement, a field that could help scientists understand neuromuscular diseases such as muscular dystrophy and myasthenia gravis.
        Dr. Schuetze was an associate editor of the Journal of Neuroscience and a member of the advisory committee of the neuroscience section of the New York Academy of Sciences.
        Besides his wife, who is a postdoctoral researcher at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons, and his brother, he is survived by his mother, Frieda, of New Ulm, Minn.; a brother, Jim, of Eagan, Minn., and two sisters, Lenore Jacobsen of Great Falls, Mont., and Norma Hall of Lakeville, Minn.
      