
       Dr. Philip Levine, a pioneering researcher in serums and antibodies who discovered the Rh factor in human blood, died Sunday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        Dr. Philip Levine, a pioneering researcher in serums and antibodies who discovered the Rh factor in human blood, died Sunday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        Dr. Levine received many major awards for his discovery of key blood factors, for greatly increasing the safety of blood transfusions and for identifying the Rh hemolytic disease. Untreated, hemolytic disease causes fetal death in pregnancies in which the blood of the father and the infant is Rh positive while the mother's is Rh negative. The mother's antibodies destroy the fetus's red blood cells, causing anemia and miscarriages.
        The disorder is treated by replacing the afflicted infant's blood supply through transfusions, usually right after birth. In this way, the occurence of severe mental or physical damage from the condition has virtually been eliminated.
        Dr. Levine also discovered that the blood serum of some cancer patients can become toxic to their cancer cells, eventually destroying them. The discovery offered the possibility of longstanding remission in certain types of cancer. Came From Russia in 1908
        Philip Levine was born in Kletsk, Russia, on Aug. 10, 1900, and was brought to the United States at the age of 8. The family settled in Brooklyn, where he graduated from Boys' High School. He received a bachelor's degree at City College and master's and M.D. degrees at Cornell University Medical School.
        Dr. Levine conducted research at the Rockefeller Institute for seven years, publishing 20 papers with Dr. Karl Landsteiner on blood disorders and discoveries. He then spent three years at the University of Wisconsin Medical School, where he co-sponsored a model state law authorizing courts to carry out blood tests to determine paternity.
        From 1935 to 1944 he was an immunologist and bacteriologist at Beth Israel Hospital in Newark. He then became the director of the biological division of the Ortho Research Foundation in Raritan, N.J., where he discovered other blood factors and antibodies. Ortho, a division of Johnson & Johnson, was soon named the Philip Levine Laboratories. #21 Years at Ortho Dr. Levine held the post at Ortho for 21 years, bringing to the foundation more than 20 experts who advised hospitals, conducted research and taught courses and seminars on blood-matching. He was a consultant to Ortho Diagnostic Systems and the Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation from his retirement in 1965 until two years ago.
        He was a past president of the American Society of Human Genetics, an elected fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in London and a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        His wife, Hilda, died in 1975. Surviving are a daughter, Phyllis Klein, of Manhattan; two sons, Dr. Mark, of Denver, and Victor, of Madison, Wisc.; a brother, Charles, of Delray Beach, Fla., and eight grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held today at 1 P.M. in the Bethel-El Chapel at Temple Emanu-El, 65th Street and Fifth Avenue. A memorial service will be held at Rockefeller University at a date to be announced.
      