
       Sir Peter Medawar, the British doctor who shared the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1960 and later in life was recognized as a scientific philosopher and writer, died Friday in London's Royal Free Hospital. He was 72 years old.
        Sir Peter Medawar, the British doctor who shared the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1960 and later in life was recognized as a scientific philosopher and writer, died Friday in London's Royal Free Hospital. He was 72 years old.
        He shared the Nobel Prize with Sir Macfarlane Burnet of the University of Melbourne for work on the body's rejection of transplanted tissues. Research by the two scientists had a profound influence on the development of the modern science of immunology, and helped clear the way for transplant surgery.
        Sir Peter had suffered a series of strokes and was in a coma for eight days before he died, according to The Associated Press. 'The Art of the Soluble'
        For Sir Peter, science was ''the art of the soluble.'' Its ''generative principle'' was ''imaginative guesswork.'' And the purpose of an experiment was not to find facts but to test a hypothesis, ''a sort of draft law about what the world or some particularly interesting aspect of it may be like.''
        People who perform experiments, he wrote in ''Memoir of a Thinking Radish,'' his autobiography that was published last year, may lead lives that are ''unhappy, strangely mixed up or comic, but not in ways that tell us anything special about the nature or direction of their work.''
        In his own early career this seemed to be the case. But his description of that time in his life, a time in which he carried out esoteric research suggested by his mentors, provided a glimpse of how major scientific breakthroughs can occur:
        ''I don't regard my own messings-about as any more discreditable than those of a writer who, before writing the novel or play which makes his reputation, spends his time on potboilers and half-finished manuscripts. A scientist who wants to do something original and important must experience, as I did, some kind of shock that forces upon his intention the kind of problem that it should be his duty and will become his pleasure to investigate.'' Problem of Skin Grafts
        The ''shock'' that he mentioned was an airplane crash near his home. It exposed him to the problem of grafting skin over the young pilot's severe burns, and when he returned to that problem a few years later, he was prepared to find a way to solve the problem.
        Peter Brian Medawar was born on Feb. 28, 1915, in Brazil, where his parents were assigned on business. He attended Marlborough College, a fashionable British school, and then went on to Magdalen College, Oxford. In an interview in 1977, he said his biology teacher at Marlborough had filled him with enthusiasm for the subject, ''and from that moment I never seriously considered anything else.''
        He earned a degree in zoology at Oxford and began his research into the growth of tissues. His research yielded a substance that reunited severed nerves, which became widely used in skin grafts.
        In World War II the Medical Research Council, which promotes scientific inquiry in Britain, asked him to study why badly burned patients were unable to accept skin grafts.
        ''When you do that,'' he said in the 1977 interview, ''skin grafts are rejected promptly. And yet this is the only ideal solution - there is really no other - for skin doesn't regenerate at all, you get a sort of thin layer of epithelium under a burn, but that doesn't stop the terrible wound contraction which is the disfiguring element of a burn.'' Confirming Theory of Tolerance
        Sir Macfarlane, an expert on influenza, leukemia and viruses, had begun studying immunological patterns in 1949. He had concluded that a body gradually develops the capacity to recognize its own tissues during the embryonic period and predicted that if foreign tissues were introduced at this stage the body would remember them later and tolerate them if reintroduced.
        Working with a staff of researchers, Dr. Medawar confirmed Sir Macfarlane's theory that the rejection of donor grafts was due to an immunological reaction and that tolerance could be built up.
        In 1953, Dr. Medawar published a paper reporting on the injections of mouse embryos from tissues of a different breed of mouse. The prenatal treatment produced ''acquired immunological tolerance,'' while untreated mice rejected grafts.
        The two scientists also showed that newborn animals would accept material injected from other animals right after birth, before the immune mechanism had time to mature. Election to Royal Society
        In addition, he and Dr. Burnet showed that an animal made immunologically tolerant in this way tended to regard material from the foreign donor as part of itself for the rest of its life. Thus, a transplant of an organ from an unrelated donor to a tolerant recipient would not be rejected.
        As a result of his early work, he gained a reputation at an early age, and was elected to the Fellowship of the Royal Society, the ultimate honor in Britian for scientists, at the age of 34.
        After the war, he taught at the University of Birmingham and University College, London. In 1962 he became director of the the National Institute of Medical Research, a post he relinquished in 1971, two years after he suffered a serious stroke.
        He was knighted in 1965. In 1981, received the Order of Merit, the most prestigious of all royal honors.
        Sir Peter is survived by his wife, Jean, a former chairwoman of the Family Planning Association, and four children.
      