
       John Oliver Killens, a writer, teacher and a founder of the Harlem Writers Guild, died of cancer Tuesday at the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center in Brooklyn. He was 71 years old and lived in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
        John Oliver Killens, a writer, teacher and a founder of the Harlem Writers Guild, died of cancer Tuesday at the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center in Brooklyn. He was 71 years old and lived in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
        Mr. Killens's novels, belying his low-key and soft-spoken manner, mirrored his hard-edged activist philosophy. He once wrote, ''My fight is not to be a white man in a black skin, but to inject some black blood, some black intelligence into the pallid mainstream of American life, culturally, socially, psychologically, philosophically.''
        As a teacher in creative-writing programs at colleges, including Fisk, Howard and Columbia Universities and Medgar Evers College, and a founder in 1952 of the Harlem Writers Guild, Mr. Killens was notable for nurturing young people. ''He was very giving,'' said Malaika Adero, an editor at Simon & Schuster and a Killens workshop participant. ''He cared about writing beyond the development of technical skills.''
        ''There is no such thing as art for art's sake,'' Mr. Killens once said. ''All art is propaganda, although there is much propaganda that is not art. We must join a crusade to decolonize the minds of black people. No one else will do this work, so we must.'' Tutored Developing Writers
        Younger writers he tutored include Nikki Giovanni, Richard Perry, Arthur Flowers, Wesley Brown and Barbara Sommers. And the list of early guild members includes John Henry Clark, Lonne Elder 3d, Douglas Turner Ward, Ossie Davis, Paule Marshall, Audre Lorde, Maya Angelou and Sarah Wright. In the first 12 years of its existence, guild members produced several novels, three plays and a movie. Mr. Killens himself read and honed his first novel, ''Youngblood,'' at guild meetings in members' homes.
        Mr. Killens's writings, which were translated into 14 languages, include a drama, two screenplays and several novels. In ''And Then We Heard the Thunder,'' his second novel, published in 1963, Mr. Killens's black hero is a law-school student who, in World War II, becomes a commissioned officer with an all-black amphibious regiment. After being disabused of the notion that he is on an equal footing with the white commissioned officers, he makes common cause with his black fellow soldiers. Like his hero, Mr. Killens himself left law school for the Army.
        The writer and critic Noel Perrin wrote in 1985 that World War II and Vietnam produced large quantities of good fiction, and among the 1,000-plus World War II books of fiction, ''And Then We Heard the Thunder'' was one of five major novels. A year after publication it was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize.
        The first Killens novel, ''Youngblood,'' was published in 1954 as the Supreme Court outlawed school segregation and the civil-rights movement was gestating in the South. Mr. Killens, who was born in Macon, Ga., set his novel in a small Georgia town and portrayed a community of ordinary black people ready to die to obtain rights. Essays, Stage and Film
        Mr. Killens was especially admired for his first two novels. Some viewed his later fiction as less powerful, more didactic. His final work is ''The Great Black Russian: The Life and Times of Alexander Pushkin.'' It will be published in May by Wayne State Press. He also wrote ''Black Man's Burden'' (1966), essays on the black man's evolution in America; ''Sippi'' (1967), the story of a black family in Mississippi; ''Cotillion: Or One Good Bull Is Half the Herd,'' (1971); ''Great Gittin' Up Morning: A Biography of Denmark Vesey'' (1972), and a children's book, ''A Man Ain't Nothin' but a Man: The Adventures of John Henry'' (1975).
        In 1964 he collaborated with the playwright Loften Mitchell on ''Ballad of the Winter Soldiers,'' a pageant about freedom fighters presented at Lincoln Center. In another collaboration he and Fred Halstead wrote material for ''Harlem Stirs,'' a collection of photographs by Don Hogan Charles and Anthony Aviles.
        Of his two major screenplays, the more commercially successful was the 1959 feature ''Odds Against Tomorrow,'' which starred Harry Belafonte, Robert Ryan and Ed Begley as a trio of bank robbers. His other script was for ''Slaves'' (1969).
        Mr. Killens's experiences in the Army inspired his turn to writing. After the war he abandoned law school, returned to New York and took writing classes at Columbia University.
        Mr. Killens earlier attended Edward Waters College and Morris Brown College and graduated from Howard University. In addition to being the first chairman of the Harlem Writers Guild, he was a vice president of the Black Academy of Arts and Letters.
        He is survived by his mother, Willie, of Washington; his wife, Grace; a son, John Charles; a daughter, Barbara Killens Rivera, and two brothers, Charles and Richard, of Washington.
      