
       The Bronx District Attorney, Mario Merola, died of a cerebral hemorrhage last night, less than 12 hours after suffering what doctors called a ''massive and primary'' neurological disorder that brought on cardiac arrest.
        The Bronx District Attorney, Mario Merola, died of a cerebral hemorrhage last night, less than 12 hours after suffering what doctors called a ''massive and primary'' neurological disorder that brought on cardiac arrest.
        Mr. Merola, who was 65 years old, was taken to Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center after he was stricken at about 7 A.M.
        Doctors said that he had no pulse for at least an hour after suffering the attack and that he had suffered ''significant'' brain damage. Officials said Mr. Merola's wife, Tullia, found him lying unconscious on the dining-room floor of his home in the Woodlawn section of the Bronx. Longest Tenure
        It was not clear who would succeed Mr. Merola, a Democrat who served as the top law-enforcement official in the Bronx for nearly 15 years, the longest tenure of any district attorney in New York City. A spokesman for the District Attorney's office, Edward McCarthy, said Mr. Merola's chief assistant, Paul Gentile, had stepped in as acting district attorney after Mr. Merola was hospitalized yesterday morning.
        Mr. Merola was running for re-election with Republican and Liberal Party endorsement. His name will remain on the ballot, and if he is the winner, a special election will have to be scheduled. Governor Cuomo could appoint a replacement to serve until the special election.
        Throughout the day yesterday, Mr. Merola was listed in critical but stable condition. In midafternoon, the director of emergency medicine at Our Lady of Mercy, Dr. Harold Osborn, described the prognosis as bleak. A hospital spokesman, James Draddy, said then that Mr. Merola was not responsive to ''voice, touch or anything else.''
        Mr. Merola had been placed on a respirator before he died. The hospital's executive vice president, Frank Corvino, said that Mr. Merola died of natural causes and that there had been no decision to remove him from the respirator.
        Hospital officials repeatedly refused to discuss details of the case and canceled a 4 P.M. news conference moments before it was to begin. The physicians attending Mr. Merola had already filed into a hospital gymnasium, where reporters were waiting, but the doctors turned around and walked out of the room as Mr. Corvino issued a brief statement that said doctors were continuing to treat Mr. Merola.
        After Mr. Merola died, Mr. Corvino issued another statement that said the hospital would not answer questions about the case ''in order that we may honor the family's wishes.''
        Earlier in the day, Mr. Merola had been given the last rites of the Roman Catholic Church by the Rev. Norbert Lemke, one of three clergymen on call at the hospital. Hospital officials said it was customary to administer the last rites when a patient arrived at the hospital in critical condition. Praise From Governor
        On learning of Mr. Merola's death, city and state officials issued statements of praise. Mr. Cuomo called him ''a wonderful public offical.'' In a prepared statement, the Governor said, ''His quality and commitment to his city, state and country will never be replaced.''
        Mayor Koch called him ''a unique personality,'' adding: ''I've known few people who were as dedicated to his fellow citizens as he was.''
        Officials said Mr. Merola awoke yesterday in his home at 6:30, as was his habit. He put on a light blue sweatsuit and went downstairs, apparently to walk the dog. It was not clear whether Mr. Merola collapsed before leaving the house or after he returned.
        An Emergency Medical Service technician, Vincent Thomas, said Mrs. Merola told him that at about 7 A.M., she heard a noise on the first floor. But she told him she did not go downstairs until after 7:15.
        Mrs. Merola dialed 911 at 7:27, and Mr. Thomas and another medical technician arrived at 7:32. They found no pulse and no blood pressure. At 7:36, two other paramedics, David Kimmel and Michael Fitton, arrived. They were unable to restore a pulse.  At that point, the decision was made to take Mr. Merola to Our Lady of Mercy, a quarter of a mile from his home. He was wheeled into the hospital emergency room at 7:56 and was given adrenalin and other drugs called pressers, which doctors said were intended to help raise his blood pressure. But he did not respond. Doctors worked for 40 minutes before his heart began beating again.
        Hospital officials said Mr. Merola died at 6:34 P.M.
      