
       Ben Stahl, a painter, art teacher and award-winning illustrator for The Saturday Evening Post, died of cancer on Monday at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 77 years old.
        Ben Stahl, a painter, art teacher and award-winning illustrator for The Saturday Evening Post, died of cancer on Monday at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 77 years old.
        One of his colleagues, the artist Norman Rockwell, once said, ''We are but illustrators, but Ben Stahl is among the masters.''
        Mr. Stahl was born in Chicago in 1910, and, by the age of 20 had exhibited his works at the Art Institute of Chicago's International Water Color Show. His paintings have been shown at the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh and at many galleries across the country. A Founder of School
        In 1949, Mr. Stahl helped found the Famous Artists Schools of Westport, Conn., a correspondance institute offering home art instruction, whose faculty included Norman Rockwell, Al Parker and others.
        More than 750 of his illustrations appeared in The Saturday Evening Post since 1933, including those he did for C. S. Forester's famous ''Hornblower'' series. He also illustrated several limited editions of classic novels, including ''Little Women,'' ''Madame Bovary'' and ''Gone With the Wind.''
        Mr. Stahl was the author and illustrator of ''Blackbird's Ghost,'' winner of the 1966 Sequoia Book Award, which, in 1968, was made into a Walt Disney film. Won Many Awards
        He was the winner of many art awards, including the National Academy of Design's Saltus Gold Medal in 1952. He was elected to the Society of Illustrators Hall of Fame in 1979.
        He is survived by his wife, Ella; a son, David Franklin Andrew, and daughter, Regina Briskie, both of Sarasota; a son and daughter from a previous marriage, Ben F. Stahl of South Norwalk, Conn., and Gail Rutledge of Tustin, Calif., and three sisters, Nancy Brown, and Maybelle and Lois Meyer.
        BEN STAHL, ILLUSTRATOR, IS DEAD
      