
       Theodore Brameld, a retired professor of educational theory, died of pneumonia Sunday at a nursing home in Durham, N.C. He was 83 years old.
        Theodore Brameld, a retired professor of educational theory, died of pneumonia Sunday at a nursing home in Durham, N.C. He was 83 years old.
        Professor Brameld's long teaching career included faculty posts at Boston University, New York University, the University of Puerto Rico, the University of Minnesota, Long Island University and Adelphi College.
        The author of 16 books, he was a leading proponent of reconstructionism, a philosophy that holds that the task of democratic education is to develop worthy goals through ''social consensus.''
        Although stressing that the individual must always be encouraged, ''our aim is always to build a 'group mind' that expresses the social consensus of the majority,'' the professor wrote in his 1956 book, ''Toward a Reconstructed Philosophy of Education.'' Overseas Research
        Professor Brameld's views, which he further refined during field research in Japan and Puerto Rico, frequently brought him into sharp debate with more traditional educational philosophers, many of whom argued that education's principal aim should be the rigorous defense of fixed cultural values.
        Theodore Burghard Hurt Brameld was born in Neillsville, Wis., on Jan. 20, 1904, one of two children of Theodore E. Brameld, a real-estate agent, and Minnie Dangers, a crafts teacher. A 1926 graduate of Ripon College, he studied educational philosophy at Columbia University and the University of Chicago, where a book based on his doctoral dissertation won praise from the American educational philosopher, John Dewey.
        However, Professor Brameld told a Japanese interviewer: ''I have never been comfortable in the inner sanctums of scholarship for too long a period. The air is not sufficiently saturated with the oxygen of everyday human life. So all the way through my professional years, I have found time both to study philosophy and to become involved in one or another kind of practical program which gives me a chance to relate theory to practice.''
        In the early 1960's, Professor Brameld lectured and studied in Japan and South Korea, first under the auspices of the State Department and later under a Fulbright research grant.
        His work in philosophy led him into an intensive study of anthropology, which he drew upon in developing his later theories of education. His 1959 book, ''The Remaking of a Culture,'' for example, examined the interrelationship of education and culture in Puerto Rico.
        Professor Brameld is survived by his second wife, Midori Matsuyama Brameld, and three daughters, Katherine Alice Greene, Kristin Elizabeth Melton and Patricia Gene Brameld.
        A memorial service was scheduled for Nov. 7 at Quinnipiac College in Hamden, Conn.
      