
       Jean Helion, an influential abstract artist who later turned to representational painting, died of pneumonia in a Paris hospital Tuesday night. He was 83 years old. His canvases, both abstract and representational, hang in major institutions throughout the world, including the Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        Jean Helion, an influential abstract artist who later turned to representational painting, died of pneumonia in a Paris hospital Tuesday night. He was 83 years old. His canvases, both abstract and representational, hang in major institutions throughout the world, including the Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        Active in the small, embattled band of abstractionists in Paris in the 1930's, Mr. Helion collaborated with the Dutch painter Theo van Doesburg in the short-lived group known as Art Concret, which espoused an art conceived and executed according to objective, ''scientific,'' rather than personal, standards.
        He also participated in Abstraction-Creation, a Paris group founded in 1931 that acted as a nucleus for major abstract artistic activity in the 1930's. International in outlook, it took in the ideas of Dutch neo-Plasticism, Russian Constructivism, the Bauhaus, the mysticism of Kandinsky and the biomorphism of Arp. Mr. Helion's own work at this time consisted of powerfully modeled machinelike forms in pastel colors, placed in rhythmic sequences on grounds suggesting depth. Studied Architecture
        Born in Couterne, a village in Normandy, on April 21, 1904, Mr. Helion studied architecture and engineering as a youth and while working as a draftsman took up painting on his own. He was introduced to Cubism in 1926 by Joaquin Torres-Garcia, a Uruguayan artist then living in Paris. Later, gravitating toward the work of Mondrian, he had his first show in Paris at the Salon des Independants in 1927.
        In the 1930's, preceded by shows in New York and other American cities, Mr. Helion came to the United States. He married Jean Blair, an American, and lived with her on a farm in Rockbridge Baths, Va. He was in the process of becoming an American citizen when World War II broke out. In January 1940 he returned to Paris because, as he later wrote, he ''could not resist going back to fight the Nazis.''
        His capture by the Germans and daring escape were detailed in a book he published in 1943, ''They Shall Not Have Me.'' The account described his internment in Nazi prison camps and a prison ship moored in the harbor at Stettin, now known as Szczecin, where he succeeded in having himself appointed official interpreter and prisoner's representative. With the help of his fellow-internees, who staged a free-for-all fight to distract the attention of guards, he fled from Szczecin to Berlin and then to Cologne, masquerading as a Flemish worker. He finally reached the unoccupied zone of France, where he received full pay from the military for his 21 months of captivity and was given permission by the authorities to return to the United States.
        The experience changed his way of thinking about art, and - back in Paris after the war - he turned to a representational mode. ''A man who has been locked up for a few years knows the value of reality,'' he told an interviewer for Time magazine. ''What can you communicate but the problematic meaning of the world?'' His later canvases, large in scale and painted in the grand manner, put monumental figures in everyday situations or used such symbolic images as watermelons, hands and tailor's dummies.
        In 1981, on the occasion of a show of Mr. Helion's work from 1939 to 1960 at the Robert Miller Gallery, John Russell wrote in The New York Times, ''It gives us an idea of the force and conviction with which Helion thrust his ideas onto a Parisian art world that at that time ranked abstraction very highly.''
        Mr. Helion is survived by his third wife, Jacqueline, whom he married in 1963, and five children: Louis Helion-Blair and Jean-Jacques Bichier, by his first wife, Jean; and Fabrice, David and Nicolas, by his second wife, Pegeen Vail, who was the daughter of Peggy Guggenheim, the art patron.
      