
       Walter H. Brattain, who shared the 1956 Nobel Prize in physics for the invention of the transistor, died yesterday of Alzheimer's Disease in a nursing home in Seattle. He was 85 years old.
        Walter H. Brattain, who shared the 1956 Nobel Prize in physics for the invention of the transistor, died yesterday of Alzheimer's Disease in a nursing home in Seattle. He was 85 years old.
        With Dr. John Bardeen and Dr. William B. Shockley, Dr. Brattain invented the transistor on Dec. 23, 1947, at the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J. The electronics industry has been shaped by the invention, a tiny chip of processed crystal that made the computer possible by enabling miniaturization of electronic equipment. Its first commercial use was in telephone-switching equipment in Englewood, N.J., in 1952.
        Born in Amoy, China, Dr. Brattain was reared in Washington State, where he earned a bachelor's degree from Whitman Callege in Walla Walla in 1924. He obtained a master's degree from the University of Oregon and a doctorate at the University of Minnesota.
        Dr. Brattain worked at Bell from 1929 to 1967. He also lectured in physics at Harvard University and the Universities of Minnesota and Washington and received several honorary doctor of science degrees, including one from Whitman. Right Place, Right Time
        The senior member of the Nobel team, Dr. Brattain was modest about his accomplishment. Upon accepting the Nobel Prize from King Gustav VI of Sweden, he said, ''One indeed needs to be humble about accepting such award when he thinks how fortunate he was to be in the right environment at the right time.''
        He viewed his role as a scientist as one of enhancing understanding of physical phenomena. ''I feel strongly, however, that the scientist has no right to dictate how his understanding is used,'' he once said.
        Nevertheless, in celebrating with his two colleagues the 25th anniversary of their invention, he said: ''The thing I deplore most is the use of solid-state electronics by rock-and-roll musicians to raise the level of sound to where it is both painful and injurious.''
        From 1962 to 1972 he was a lecturer and professor at Whitman, and later served as a consultant.
        Dr. Brattain was a member of the National Inventors Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his wife, Emma Jane Brattain of Walla Walla; a son, William G. Brattain, of Elgin, Ill.; a sister, Mari Brattain of Seattle; a brother, R. Robert Brattain, of Monterey, Calif., and 10 grandchildren.
      