
       Willis (Gatortail) Jackson, a tenor saxophonist with a big, robust sound and a wealth of experience in jazz and rhythm and blues, died Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, a week after undergoing heart surgery and suffering complications from diabetes. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Willis (Gatortail) Jackson, a tenor saxophonist with a big, robust sound and a wealth of experience in jazz and rhythm and blues, died Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, a week after undergoing heart surgery and suffering complications from diabetes. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Jackson was born in Miami, where he played as a teen-ager with the celebrated trumpeter Fats Navarro and other future jazz stars. He turned down offers of employment from Lionel Hampton and Andy Kirk in order to complete a college education at Florida A&M. After graduation he left Florida as a member of the Cootie Williams Orchestra.
        When Mr. Williams's recording of ''Gatortail,'' featuring Mr. Jackson's impassioned saxophone solo, became a rhythm-and-blues hit in 1950, the saxophonist left the orchestra to lead his own small combos and freelance around New York City. Two Tenor Boogie
        During the 50's, Mr. Jackson contributed vivid, eloquent saxophone solos to many rhythm-and-blues and rock-and-roll records. On his own jazz recordings, including a series of albums for the Prestige label, he usually worked with bluesy organists, playing a gritty, danceable brand of jazz that was particularly popular with black listeners. He enjoyed a long and fruitful association with the organist Jack McDuff.
        In recent years, Mr. Jackson was heard frequently at various Harlem nightspots and at the West End Cafe near Columbia University, where he traded solos with George Kelly, an early friend from Miami, in a band called Two Tenor Boogie.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann, and two sons, Leon, who lives in Florida, and Ronald, of Los Angeles.
      