
       Frank Aikman Jr., president of the Long Island Rail Road in one of its most turbulent periods, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at the Kimball Medical Center in Lakewood, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Lakewood.
        Frank Aikman Jr., president of the Long Island Rail Road in one of its most turbulent periods, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at the Kimball Medical Center in Lakewood, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Lakewood.
        When Mr. Aikman resigned in July 1969, after two years as president, the railroad's long history of equipment problems and labor problems had turned into a political crisis.
        It was facing rising complaints from commuters and politicians and there were calls not only for Mr. Aikman's resignation but also for the removal of Dr. William J. Ronan, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Mr. Aikman's overseer.
        ''You know, the last two years have not been easy,'' Mr. Aikman said as he announced his resignation. He was succeeded by Walter L. Schlager Jr. Labor and Service Problems The two years were marked by difficulties in getting new cars in service and a series of labor problems, including a two-day strike against the railroad in November 1968 over a new timetable.
        The next month, a prominent union official called for commuters to join his trainmen in a ''rebellion,'' but Mr.Aikman said, ''If we can't collect fares, we can't run the trains.''
        In January 1969, Mr. Aikman gave orders that barred the Nassau County Executive, Eugene H. Nickerson, from entering and inspecting a Long Island Rail Road repair shop in Queens.
        Mr. Nickerson had been responding to an invitation from a union official who contended that cars were leaving the railroad's shop in a dangerous condition. Joined the Long Island in '49
        Mr. Aikman began his career in railroads in 1934 as an assistant engineer in the maintenance of way department of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Two years before he had graduated from Lafayette College as a civil engineer.
        In 1949 he moved to the Long Island Rail Road, then a subsidiary of the Pennsylvania, as engineer in charge of maintenance of way. He was made chief engineer in 1958, vice president in 1962 and president in 1967.
        Later he became executive director of Railway Systems Suppliers, until his retirement about 1980.
        He is survived by his wife, Gertrude; a son, Dr. Frank 3d of Paris; two daughters, Susan Fasick of Atlanta, and Gretchen Chapman of Reisterstown, Md., and five grandchildren.
      