
       Juda H. Quastel, one of three scientists who discovered the herbicide 2,4-D, a component of the wartime defoliant Agent Orange, died of peritonitis last Thursday in the University of British Columbia Health Sciences Center in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 88 years old and lived in Vancouver.
        Juda H. Quastel, one of three scientists who discovered the herbicide 2,4-D, a component of the wartime defoliant Agent Orange, died of peritonitis last Thursday in the University of British Columbia Health Sciences Center in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 88 years old and lived in Vancouver.
        Dr. Quastel began his career as a biochemist by studying enzymes and cell metabolism. He focused on the metabolism of bacteria while working in the laboratory of Sir F. G. Hopkins in Cambridge, England, in the 1920's.
        Dr. Quastel was one of the first research biochemists to try to find chemical origins of mental disorders. As director of research at the Cardiff City Mental Hospital from 1930 to 1941, he studied the effects of drugs on the brain.
        His work pointed to the essential role of glucose in supplying energy to the brain. In 1936, he discovered that acetylcholine, which was already known to be a transmitter in the peripheral nervous system, was synthesized in the brain.
        In 1941, he began work on food production for the Agricultural Research Council. With H. G. Thornton and P. Nutman, he discovered 2,4-D, a herbicide that has since been widely used in increasing the yield of cereal crops. Health Hazards Seen
        The chemical has lately been thought to pose a health hazard. Last year the National Cancer Institute and the University of Kansas said that farmers exposed to the chemical for at least 20 days a year were far more likely to contract lymphatic cancer than people who did not work with it. Agent Orange, an herbicide sprayed in Vietnam that was the source of lawsuits filed by veterans who say it caused serious health problems, contains 2,4-D.
        Dr. Quastel left England for Canada in 1947. He became a professor of biochemistry and director of the McGill University and Montreal General Hospital Research Institute.
        In 1966, he joined the University of British Columbia in Vancouver as its first professor of neurochemistry.
        Dr. Quastel was born on Oct. 2, 1899, in Sheffield, England. He studied physical chemistry at the Imperial College of Science in London, where he earned his bachelor's degree in 1921 and a doctor of science degree in 1926. He received a Ph.D. in biochemistry at Cambridge in 1924 and was elected a Fellow of Trinity College the same year.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan; two sons, Dr. Michael R., of Beersheva, and David M. J. of Vancouver; a daughter, Barbara Glick, of Vancouver; a brother, Charles, of the Isle of Man; three sisters, Doris and Hetty, both of Sheffield, England, and Anne, of Honolulu, and 11 grandchildren.
      