
       Bradshaw Mintener, a Washington attorney and former Government official who helped in launching both Hubert H. Humphrey and Dwight D. Eisenhower into national politics, died of cancer yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and had lived in the capital since joining the Eisenhower Administration in 1954 as Assistant Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare.
        Bradshaw Mintener, a Washington attorney and former Government official who helped in launching both Hubert H. Humphrey and Dwight D. Eisenhower into national politics, died of cancer yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and had lived in the capital since joining the Eisenhower Administration in 1954 as Assistant Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare.
        A native of Trempealeau, Wis., Mr. Mintener was a Yale graduate. He studied at Oxford University and Harvard Law School and received his law degree at the University of Minnesota in 1929. He joined the legal department of the Pillsbury Flour Mills Company in Minneapolis in 1933 and was Pillsbury's general counsel and a vice president from 1946 to 1954.
        Mr. Mintener was an early backer of Mr. Humphrey when the future Senator and Vice President ran for Mayor of Minneapolis in 1945. Mr. Humphrey, a Democrat, in turn appointed Mr. Mintener, a Republican, chairman of the Mayor's Law Enforcement Committee. A Force in Eisenhower Campaign
        Mr. Mintener was an important backer and financial mainstay of another local politician with perennial Presidential aspirations, former Gov. Harold E. Stassen. But in 1952, when Mr. Stassen had counted heavily on Mr. Mintener in the Minnesota Republican primary, Mr. Mintener began a campaign in Minnesota for General Eisenhower.
        In March 1952, in a driving snowstorm, an astounding 110,000 Minnesotans set a national record by writing in General Eisenhower's name, swamping Mr. Stassen and giving the Eisenhower forces an important victory.
        The following January, on President Eisenhower's first day in the Oval Office, Mr. Mintener and his wife, Eleanor, were the President's first outside callers.
        The President named Mr. Mintener to Health, Education and Welfare in August 1954, with the Minnesotan serving as as Assistant Secretary for Federal-State Relations. He returned to the law two years later, in private practice, but also served on Government advisory bodies and numerous private institutions, associations and universities, including as a trustee of Sibley Memorial.
        Mr. Mintener is survived by his wife of 54 years, Eleanor White Mintener; two daughters, Anne Heegaard of Minneapolis and Susan Northrop of Naperville, Ill.; a son, Bradshaw Jr. of Canton, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. Tuesday at Metropolitan Memorial Methodist Church in Washington.
      