
       Martin L. Mellman, the former chairman of the Nassau County Democratic Party, died of undetermined causes Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 69 years old and lived in Port Washington.
        Martin L. Mellman, the former chairman of the Nassau County Democratic Party, died of undetermined causes Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 69 years old and lived in Port Washington.
        Mr. Mellman attended City College in the 1930's and got his first taste of politicking with the American Student Union. He was a sales representative for the Harlem Paper Products Company, which he said provided him enough money to devote himself to politics. He was involved in civic affairs and was a member of the Great Neck Parent-Teacher Association.
        His involvement with Democratic politics dates back 20 years, when he became active in the movement against the Vietnam War. He was also a volunteer in the presidential campaign of Eugene McCarthy.
        He became a Democratic committeeman, an Assembly district leader and, in 1981, chairman of the badly splintered Democratic Party in Nassau County. Efforts Were Scuttled
        He had had some successes as district leader in managing the State Assembly campaigns of Irwin J. Landes. But in 1977, when the Republicans were divided, his efforts to get Mr. Landes elected as county executive were scuttled when it was disclosed that the candidate had not filed state income taxe returns for several years.
        When he took over the Democratic organization, Mr. Mellman vowed to revitalize it, but he was constrained by voter turnout and the inability to reward the faithful with patronage jobs.
        He was one of the most liberal county leaders in the state but faced an entrenched Republican organization in the county. His efforts to get Democrats elected were usually frustrated, and he stepped down in December 1986.
        Mr. Mellman is survived by his wife, Marilyn Goldstein, a columnist for Long Island Newsday; a son, Ira, of Northford, Conn.; a daughter, Lesa, of Kearny, N.J.; a sister, Rose Daitsman of Milwaukee, and three grandchildren.
      