
       Dr. Richard R. Green, the head of the New York City schools for only 14 months, died suddenly after an asthma attack early yesterday, leaving the leadership of the nation's largest schools system in disarray.
        Dr. Richard R. Green, the head of the New York City schools for only 14 months, died suddenly after an asthma attack early yesterday, leaving the leadership of the nation's largest schools system in disarray.
        The shock of his death at the age of 52 left the city without an architect for a school system struggling to deal with racial divisions, high dropout rates, deteriorating buildings and drugs. And it forced city leaders to face the possibility of a long and potentially fractious search for a new schools chancellor. Dr. Green became the city's first black chancellor after a politically divisive search that lasted almost five months.
        The task of naming a new chancellor comes at a particularly difficult time; the city is about to begin what is expected to be a turbulent mayoral campaign that could complicate the search for a successor. Moreover, there is a growing consensus that the city's 20-year-old system of decentralized school administration needs to be overhauled in response to a series of revelations about corruption among the 32 local boards that administer elementary and middle schools. By Ambulance to Hospital
        Because Dr. Green had not been in office long enough to fulfill much of his pledge to make the system a model for urban education, his successor will almost certainly have to make a fresh beginning.
        By the time Dr. Green arrived by ambulance at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, at 48 West 59th Street, at 2:30 A.M., he was not breathing and his heart had stopped. Dr. Green's wife, Gwendolyn, said her husband had awakened saying he was having trouble breathing because of the asthma that had plagued him since boyhood. She said that before collapsing he said to her, ''Gwen, I'm not going to make it this time.''
        Robert F. Wagner Jr., the president of the Board of Education, said Bernard Mecklowitz, a veteran city educator whom Dr. Green had named deputy chancellor for administration, would be the acting chancellor.
        Mr. Wagner, who will be at the center of the effort to find a permanent successor, praised Dr. Green, saying he had ''shown extraordinary compassion and leadership in the post and will be a tough act to follow.'' Series of Problems
        The next chancellor will be confronted by staggering problems that Dr. Green had only begun to address.
        The dropout rate is so high, for example, that fewer than a third of this year's first graders are expected to graduate from high school with their classmates at the turn of the century.
        In addition, most of the 1,000 public school buildings in the system are in woeful disrepair, a legacy of the city's fiscal crisis in the mid-1970's. Violence by students against other students as well as against teachers has continued largely unabated.
        And affecting almost all aspects of urban school life is abuse of drugs, particularly crack.
        Dr. Green had begun to address those issues in a deliberate fashion. But as Stanley S. Litow, the head of Interface, an educational study group, observed: ''Fourteen months is too short a time to have had much of an impact on this system. He really didn't have an opportunity to get things going.''
        Mr. Wagner suggested that the city resurrect the search committee that selected Dr. Green, who was then superintendent of the Minneapolis schools. ''We ought to be able to build on the process we had last time,'' he said.
        The process that brought Dr. Green to New York was, however, marked by political battles. Principal political factors that were evident last time and are certain to figure in any new search are the ethnic background and race of the candidates.
        In the last search for a chancellor, the selection committee decided it was appropriate to pick an educator from a minority group to run a school system in which more than 80 percent of the students are members of minority groups.
        The previous two chancellors - Nathan Quinones and Anthony Alvarado - were of Hispanic heritage, and the consensus on the committee was that it was time that a black be chosen. Dr. Green's runner-up, another black man, was Bernard G. Gifford, a former deputy chancellor in New York.
        Albert H. Bowker, a former chancellor of the City University of New York who presided over the four-and-a-half-month search, said yesterday that he was willing to undertake the task of finding a successor. But Dr. Bowker warned that candidates who were passed over last time might be unwilling to be considered again.
        ''I don't know if anyone will want to go through that experience again,'' he said. Moreover, he said, the mayoral campaign will further discourage candidates.
        Dr. Gifford, angered by the selection ordeal, vowed never to consider the post again. Experience With Bureaucracy
        Felix G. Rohatyn, who is the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation and who has become increasingly involved in the public schools, said yesterday that the board should leave Mr. Mecklowitz in place. He said it would be a fitting legacy to Dr. Green to give his handpicked deputy a chance to succeed him.
        Because Dr. Green was occasionally criticized for his unfamiliarity with New York, educators with experience in dealing with the city's vast educational bureaucracy may have an advantage, several officials suggested.
        On the morning before he died, Dr. Green appeared in an auditorium in Lower Manhattan with hundreds of students who performed skits and songs to express their suggestions about how schools should be changed. Dr. Green, a tall and commanding figure, was at his best at such events, visibly relaxed in the company of children.
        Carol Gibson, his chief of staff and a longtime friend, said he had told her it was the second-happiest day since he arrived in New York. The happiest, she recalled, was March 3, 1988, when he was installed as Chancellor in a ceremony with great pageantry at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.
        At that time he recalled his childhood - his birth in Arkansas, his journey at the age of 2 by rail with his mother and three siblings to Minneapolis where he rose from teacher to be that city's first black superintendent, an educator with a national reputation. Respiratory Problems
        Ellen Sulzberger Straus, a friend and confidante of Dr. and Mrs. Green, said she had detected a significant change in his demeanor since the beginning of the year. Up until that time, she noted, he was often beset by controversy as he struggled to deal with the system that was 25 times as large as the one he had known in Minneapolis.
        ''By the first of the year, he felt he was finally getting on top of things,'' she said. ''He felt he was on the upswing and was, for the first time, quite confident.''
        Mrs. Straus said the Greens returned to Minneapolis for Christmas and Mrs. Green related how he repeatedly expressed his impatience to return to New York City. ''Let's go home; let's go home already,'' she said, repeating Mrs. Green's recollection of her husband's words. By then, home was New York, not Minneapolis.
        Despite his newfound comfort with New York, Mrs. Straus said, the air pollution had increasingly bothered him. He was taken to the hospital last spring for a day when he found breathing difficult. Friends also recalled that he nearly collapsed on a golf course last summer because of his asthma.
        Dr. Arthur Englard of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center said preliminary indications were that Dr. Green had died of cardiac arrest brought on by his inability to breathe. Dr. Englard, an allergy specialist, said that at the onset of the attack Dr. Green had used an inhaler and the drug prednisone, a form of cortisone, to open air passages.
        He said that if drugs are available, asthma attacks are rarely fatal, suggesting that Dr. Green had a severe chronic condition. Political Sensitivities
        Mayor Edward I. Koch, who rushed to the hospital before dawn with Mr. Wagner, said Dr. Green had told him that it would take three or four years to have a significant impact on the city schools. Mr. Koch said that, nonetheless, Dr. Green had ''created a spirit that was very special'' in the short time he was Chancellor.
        The Mayor insisted that he would not become directly involved in the selection of a successor, a politically sensitive process. The chancellor is selected by the Board of Education, two of whose members are appointed by the mayor and five by the borough presidents. Mr. Koch is assumed, nonetheless, to have enormous influence.
        Although he arrived with the reputation of an accomplished big-city school administrator, Dr. Green found many things surprising about New York's schools, as he acknowledged in an interview last March on the anniversary of his taking office. He was taken aback by the presence of weapons and the prevalence of drugs, he said.
        But most of all, he was unprepared for the scandals that involved several of the city's 32 local school boards. The local boards were created with the hope of involving parents more closely with the schools. Instead, many of the boards were preoccupied with politics and not education while parents felt discouraged from participation.
        He ultimately suspended two school boards in the Bronx, both of which had members who were indicted on corruption charges.
        Both boards were composed entirely of black and Hispanic members, and Dr. Green was criticized by some minority figures for his actions. ''Nothing wounded him as much as that,'' Ms. Gibson, his chief aide, said recently.
        He also said he was surprised by the degree of racial tension in New York and said he was determined not to be a part of it.
        While Dr. Green had his critics, it was hard to overestimate his value when he appeared before students, particularly black students. When Dr. Green was the subject of some published reports two months ago that he had not yet put his mark on the system, he traveled to Boys and Girls High School in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn and received a wildly enthusiastic welcome.
        ''We felt he was doing a good job, and we wanted to lift him up,'' said Natasha Lucas, a senior. ''By example, he rose above all the things that have held black people back.''
        Another senior, Nicole Johnson, said she was impressed with Dr. Green after he walked around the school and talked to students. ''He understood our problems,'' she said. ''He hadn't been hardened by New York yet, and I feel he wasn't able to live up to his full potential.''
      