
       Hassler Whitney, a mathematician who made important contributions in geometry and who was deeply involved in improving the teaching of mathematics, died Wednesday at Princeton Medical Center two weeks after suffering a stroke. He was 82 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Hassler Whitney, a mathematician who made important contributions in geometry and who was deeply involved in improving the teaching of mathematics, died Wednesday at Princeton Medical Center two weeks after suffering a stroke. He was 82 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Professor Whitney's specialty was geometry, particularly topology, including the study of multidimensional surfaces like spheres. He demonstrated, for example, that it is possible to plot a tour of the earth that visits each country once and only once - the Hamiltonian cycle.
        Colleagues said his early work had laid the foundation for advances in graph theory and in esoteric disciplines. Math and the Very Young
        Professor Whitney's lifelong interest in the teaching process crystallized in 1967 when he became involved full time in educational problems, especially at the elementary school level. He went into classrooms, spending four months teaching pre-algebra mathematics to seventh graders and conducting summer courses for teachers. He traveled widely to lecture on the subject in the United States and abroad.
        A focus of his effort was to eradicate ''mathematics anxiety,'' which he said was why many young pupils shunned mathematics. Preschoolers, he observed, demonstrate a natural ability to learn complex and subtle material on their own initiative.
        But when they get to math classes in school, he said, children find themselves in a climate that negates their natural learning tendencies. They are taught to learn ''the right things the right way,'' as he put it, and are confronted almost wholly by abstract numbers in a process of memorizing by rote.
        ''Those few children who continue applying their own thinking to real-life problems find the computational algorithms transparent and natural,'' he wrote in 1982. ''The others see complex and apparently shifting rules to apply in each new topic, and get terribly confused. This causes more straight teaching by the teacher, further forcing rote learning and resulting failure.'' Catching Up; More Memorizing
        Professionals and the public, he went on, become convinced that children are poor in math or are learning-disabled. Teachers, he said, are pressed to make them catch up, prescribe more memorizing so that ''essentially no time is given the children to think for themselves.''
        To remedy this situation, Professor Whitney called for ''better attitudes'' in education to focus on children's futures ''rather than immediate test-passing, remembering that students are whole human beings and must be treated as such.''
        Hassler Whitney was born in Manhattan and received bachelor's degrees in philosophy and in music at Yale and a doctorate in mathematics at Harvard. He taught mathematics at Harvard for a year and in 1931 was named to the National Research Council fellowship at Princeton.
        He returned to Harvard in 1933 and taught there for two decades, advancing to full professorship. In 1952 he joined the Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton as a professor of mathematics, officially retiring in 1977 but continuing as an emeritus professor until his death.
        Professor Whitney received the National Medal of Science in 1976 and in 1982 he was co-winner of Israel's $100,000 Wolf Foundation Award. Music and Mountains
        Throughout his life he avidly pursued two hobbies: music and mountain-climbing. An accomplished player of the violin and the viola, he played with the Princeton Musical Amateurs. An outdoor enthusiast, he ran 6 to 12 miles every other day. He was a member of the Swiss Alpine Society and, on many mountaineering trips, climbed most of the peaks in Switzerland.
        Professor Whitney is survived by his third wife, Barbara Osterman, an artist; three children from his first marriage, to Margaret Howell, who is now dead. The children are James, of Paris, Carol, of Victoria, of British Columbia, and Molly Melhuish of Wellington, N.Z.
        He also leaves two children by his second marriage, to Mary Garfield: Sally Thurston of Cambridge, Mass., and Emily, of Eureka, Calif. He leaves six grandchildren.
      