
       The Rev. Dr. Theophilus Mills Taylor, the former presiding officer and titular head of the United Presbyterian Church in the United States of America, died Monday at the Brookside Nursing Home in Bradford, Vt. He was 79 years old and lived in East Topsham, Vt.
        The Rev. Dr. Theophilus Mills Taylor, the former presiding officer and titular head of the United Presbyterian Church in the United States of America, died Monday at the Brookside Nursing Home in Bradford, Vt. He was 79 years old and lived in East Topsham, Vt.
        Dr. Taylor served in the highest position of the three-million-member church, moderator of the General Assembly, from 1958 to 1959. He later took a paid staff position as secretary of the General Assembly Mission Council, serving from 1962 to 1972.
        Born in Cedarville, Ohio, on June 22, 1909, Dr. Taylor studied architecture at the University of Pennsylvania and worked as a teacher and as an architect in India for several years before studying theology at Pittsburgh-Xenia Theological Seminary. He graduated in 1941, was ordained and became assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Crafton, Pa. He then became pastor of the Barnet Center United Presbyterian Church in Barnet, Vt. In 1943 he became a professor of New Testament literature and exegesis at Pittsburgh Theological Seminary. In 1956 he received a Ph.D. at Yale University.
        From 1958 to 1962, Dr. Taylor served as chairman of the Commission on Ecumenical Mission and Relations for his denomination.
        In 1958, while presiding officer of his church, Dr. Taylor endorsed the use of ''troops and tanks, if necessary'' to enforce school integration in the South. He also criticized Gov. Orval E. Faubus of Arkansas for closing four high schools in Little Rock rather than have them integrated.
        He is survived by three daughters, Martha Renwick Matthews, of Toronto; Jessica Ann Parker, of Corning, N.Y., and Caroline Kerr Taylor, of Anaheim, Calif; a son, Mills Taylor, of the Bronx; a brother, George Taylor, of Ackermanville, Pa., and six grandchildren.
      