
       Edmund L. Palmieri, who served as a Federal District Court judge for 35 years, died of cancer of the pancreas and liver yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        Edmund L. Palmieri, who served as a Federal District Court judge for 35 years, died of cancer of the pancreas and liver yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        In 1954, Judge Palmieri was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to the court for the Southern District of New York, which is based in Manhattan. He remained active on the bench until several weeks ago.
        In a much-publicized case, he ruled last year that Congress could not require the Palestine Liberation Organization to close its observer mission to the United Nations. He also ruled then that the Government had the power to prohibit P.L.O. activities not connected with the United Nations mission.
        For more than 25 years, he supervised the application of several rulings, known as the Paramount decrees, which emerged from a major antitrust suit brought by the Government against the motion-picture industry. Served in 'Pizza Connection' Case
        In 1985, Judge Palmieri was one of the first judges to make use of treaties between the United States and several other countries that allow the taking of depositions overseas in criminal cases pending in Federal courts.
        In that year he served as a special master in the ''Pizza Connection'' case involving heroin trafficking and attempts to conceal money. With a Swiss judge, he presided over the taking of depositions from nine witnesses in the trial, in Lugano, Switzerland.
        Judge Palmieri, who was born in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, was the son of John Palmieri, a City Court judge. He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Columbia College and studied in the summers at the University of Grenoble and the University of Rome. He received his bachelor's degree at 19. Three years later, he graduated from the Columbia Law School, where he was editor of the Law Review.
        Upon graduation, he became law secretary to Charles Evans Hughes, later Chief Justice of the United States, who was then a member of the Permanent Court of International Justice at The Hague. He then spent two years as an associate with Justice Hughes's law firm, Hughes, Schurman & Dwight, in Manhattan. La Guardia's Law Secretary
        From 1931 to 1934 he was an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan, and then served as an assistant corporation counsel for New York City. Later, he became Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's law secretary.
        In 1940 he was appointed a city magistrate, resigning in 1943 when he was commissioned a major in the United States Army and was sent to the Mediterranean. At the war's end he served with the Allied Commission for Italy and was awarded the Legion of Merit for his work in re-establishing the Italian civil court system and in restoring the political and property rights of Jews in Italy.
        After the war, Judge Palmieri practiced law until his appointment to the Federal District Court.
        Judge Palmieri is survived by his wife, the former Cecile Claude Verron; two daughters, Marie-Claude Wrenn of Salt Lake City and Dr. Michelle Warren of Manhattan; a son, Alain, of Manhattan; two sisters, Dr. Assunta Cione of Annapolis, Md., and Adria Gibbons of San Francisco, and seven grandchildren.
        A funeral Mass is scheduled for Monday at 11 A.M. at St. Vincent Ferrer Roman Catholic Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street.
      