
       Holmes P. Tuttle, a California automobile dealer who was a longtime adviser to former President Ronald Reagan, died yesterday at Cottage Hospital in Montecito, Calif. He was 83 years old and lived in Santa Barbara.
        Holmes P. Tuttle, a California automobile dealer who was a longtime adviser to former President Ronald Reagan, died yesterday at Cottage Hospital in Montecito, Calif. He was 83 years old and lived in Santa Barbara.
        Mr. Tuttle's son, Robert, a former assistant to Mr. Reagan, said his father died of complications from a stroke suffered several weeks ago.
        Mr. Tuttle was a longtime member of a group known as Mr. Reagan's ''kitchen Cabinet,'' who maintained a strong voice on issues affecting Mr. Reagan well into Mr. Reagan's second term as President. He was also a major fund-raiser for Mr. Reagan's campaigns.
        Mr. Tuttle, who never held public office, was among a group of friends who purchased the house in the Bel Air section of Los Angeles where the Reagans moved after they left the White House earlier this year, Robert Tuttle said.
        Mr. Reagan was traveling in Europe last night and could not be reached for comment. Active in Politics Since 1952
        A native of Tuttle, Okla., which was named for his father, Mr. Tuttle arrived in Los Angeles on a freight train in 1926. He was hired as a parts manager in a local Ford dealership and in 1945 opened his own dealership, Holmes Tuttle Inc., which grew into family holdings that included 14 dealerships in California and Arizona.
        Mr. Tuttle sold a car to Mr. Reagan in 1946, but it was not until 1965 that their paths came together politically, when Mr. Tuttle was one of three California businessmen who urged Mr. Reagan to run for Governor. After Mr. Reagan's victory in 1966, Mr. Tuttle helped screen candidates for Cabinet posts, a job he also performed when Mr. Reagan was elected President in 1980.
        Mr. Tuttle became active in politics in 1952, when he helped campaign for President Dwight Eisenhower. He worked on the Presidential campaigns of Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Barry Goldwater, and was a delegate to every Republican National Convention from 1960 to 1984, his son said.
        Mr. Tuttle, who never attended college, received an honorary doctorate from Pepperdine University and in 1955 helped found Harvey Mudd College, in Claremont, Calif. He was a director of Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles and a member of the Oklahoma Hall of Fame, his son said.
        In addition to his son, a Washington resident, he is survived by his wife, the former Virginia Harris; a sister, Mary Jane Reily of Marietta, Okla.; his daughter, Sally Keon, of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      