
       Jonathan Lieberson, an author, editor and teacher of philosophy, died Friday at the home of his mother in Kent, Conn. He was 40 years old.
        Jonathan Lieberson, an author, editor and teacher of philosophy, died Friday at the home of his mother in Kent, Conn. He was 40 years old.
        Mr. Lieberson died of cardiac arrest after a long illness, his mother, Brigitta, said.
        Mr. Lieberson was regarded by his colleagues at The New York Review of Books, where he served as contributing editor, as one of the most versatile and erudite writers in the United States. Robert Silvers, editor of the publication, said yesterday: ''He had an extraordinary range of subjects - music, philosophy, ethics, population, literature, anthropology. He wrote with extraordinary knowledge and charm about the ethical problems of modern society.'' Praised for Literary Style
        Mr. Lieberson's book of essays, ''Varieties,'' published two years ago, included sections on Isaiah Berlin, Paul Valery, Karl Popper and other important thinkers. Commenting on the book, Elizabeth Hardwick, advisory editor of The New York Review, wrote, ''The depth of his learning and excellence of his style make him the most brilliant young intellectual of his generation.''
        In his comments on ''Varieties,'' Bruce Chatwin described Mr. Lieberson as ''one of the most intelligent and articulate men in America.'' Sidney Hook wrote that he was ''a new star in the literary firmament.''
        Mr. Lieberson, who began teaching at Barnard in 1981, served as a professor of philosophy at Barnard and Columbia. Among the subjects he taught there recently was the philosophy of international law. In addition, he was a fellow of the Center for Policy Studies at the Population Council in New York.
        Mr. Lieberson's father, Goddard, a musicologist and former head of CBS Records, died in 1977. In addition to his mother, whose stage name as a dancer was Vera Zorina, he is survived by a brother, Peter, of Halifax, Nova Scotia.
      