
       Martin Popper, a lawyer who was active in left-wing causes in the years after World War II and who was executive secretary of the National Lawyers Guild, died of cancer of the prostate Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old.
        Martin Popper, a lawyer who was active in left-wing causes in the years after World War II and who was executive secretary of the National Lawyers Guild, died of cancer of the prostate Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Popper defended several prominent figures accused of Communist affiliations or sympathies by the House Un-American Activities Committee. He represented Dalton Trumbo and John Howard Lawson, film writers who were among the ''Hollywood 10'' convicted in 1950 of contempt of Congress for refusing to tell the committee whether they were Communists. In 1961 Mr. Popper himself was convicted of the same offense.
        He was born in Manhattan and was a graduate of City College and the Brooklyn Law School. Mr. Popper was a founding partner of the New York law firm of Popper, Ross, Wolf & Jones.
        In 1945, Mr. Popper was a consultant to the United States delegation at the San Francisco conference that organized the United Nations. He was an observer for the American bar at the Nuremberg war crimes trials.
        As executive secretary of the Lawyers Guild, he frequently spoke on questions of public controversy. He was a vice president of the Consular Law Society, a member of the American Society of International Law and co-chairman of the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy.
        Mr. Popper is survived by his wife, the former Kathryn Trosper; a son, Joseph, of Kansas City; a daughter, Dr. Laura Popper of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 5, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary last Sunday about Martin Popper, a New York lawyer who died on Jan. 27, omitted the disposition of a court action involving him. His conviction in 1961 for contempt of Congress, after he declined to tell a Congressional committee whether he was a Communist, was reversed in 1962 by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
      