
       George C. Pimentel, an internationally known chemist who was a faculty member at the University of California at Berkeley for four decades, died of intestinal cancer Sunday at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 67 years old.
        George C. Pimentel, an internationally known chemist who was a faculty member at the University of California at Berkeley for four decades, died of intestinal cancer Sunday at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 67 years old.
        Dr. Pimentel's scientific interests ranged widely. He invented the chemical laser, designed instruments for interplanetary spacecraft and sought to revitalize the teaching of chemistry to high school students.
        He was also a fierce proponent of maintaining the independence of chemistry as a discipline. In a 1985 report under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences, while acknowledging that substantial portions of the traditional work of chemists had been taken over by specialists in physics, biology and other sciences, he argued that chemistry itself still offered important opportunities for scientific advance.
        Among many honors he received were the National Medal of Science and the Joseph Priestley Memorial Award, considered the highest in the field of chemistry. He was a past president of the American Chemical Society and served from 1977 to 1980 as deputy director of the National Science Foundation.
        At his death Dr. Pimentel was professor of chemistry at Berkeley, a post he had held since 1959. He was also director of the university's Laboratory of Chemical Biodynamics and associate director of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. An Authority on Mars
        He pioneered the development of rapid-scan techniques for infrared spectroscopy, the study of wave lengths, leading to the design of a special spectrometer for the Mariner spacecraft that explored the planet Mars in 1969.
        Using the spectrometer, Dr. Pimentel detected the presence of methane, ammonia and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of Mars, prompting him to speculate on the strong possibility that life had existed on the planet. Later investigation, including the Viking landings, uncovered no evidence of life on Mars.
        A native of Rolinda, Calif., he was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of California at Los Angeles. In World War II, he worked on development of the first atomic bomb with the Manhattan Project and served in the Navy before completing his doctorate at Berkeley in 1949, when he joined the faculty there.
        Dr. Pimentel is survived by his wife, the former Jeanne Robinson; three daughters, Chris Jones of Martinez, Calif.; Tess Razzano of Ashland, Ore., and Jan Coonrod-Ferguson of Eugene, Ore.; a stepdaughter, Tansy Robinson, and a stepson, Vincent Robinson, both of Kensington; a brother, Joseph, of Etan, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      