
       Salvatore A. Bontempo, a former state chairman of the Democratic Party in New Jersey and a government official at the local, state and Federal levels, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Florham Park, N.J. He was 79 years old.
        Salvatore A. Bontempo, a former state chairman of the Democratic Party in New Jersey and a government official at the local, state and Federal levels, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Florham Park, N.J. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Bontempo, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and the John Marshall Law School, which is now part of Seton Hall University, was involved in Democratic politics for almost three decades.
        In 1961 he served for about six months in the State Department as administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs. He left to work in private industry and in 1969 was named chairman of the New Jersey Democratic Party.
        He backed the Presidential bid of Senator Hubert H. Humphrey in 1972, only to see him swamped by Senator George S. McGovern, 5 to 1, in the Democratic primary in New Jersey. Mr. Bontempo left the party post in 1973 and from 1975 to 1977 was chairman of the New Jersey Highway Authority, which operates the Garden State Parkway and the Garden State Arts Center.
        As New Jersey's Commissioner of Conservation and Economic Development from 1958 to 1961, he led a drive for development of the 14,000-acre Hackensack Meadowlands and developed the state's Green Acres program for acquiring lands to preserve open space.
        Born in Newark in 1909, Mr. Bontempo was also active in the city government there. He was director of purchasing from 1933 to 1942, and after serving as a colonel with the Army Air Forces in World War II, he was elected to the Newark City Commission in 1953.
        He is survived by his wife, Gloria; two sons, Thomas, of Florham Park, and Paul, of Morristown, N.J.; two sisters, Theresa, of Madison, N.J., and Catherine Miele of Newark, and one grandchild.
      