
       Michel Aflaq, the founder and General Secretary of Iraq's governing Arab Baath Socialist Party, died in a hospital in Paris on Friday night, the Iraqi press agency reported. He was 79 years old, and had undergone heart surgery on June 10.
        Michel Aflaq, the founder and General Secretary of Iraq's governing Arab Baath Socialist Party, died in a hospital in Paris on Friday night, the Iraqi press agency reported. He was 79 years old, and had undergone heart surgery on June 10.
        Mr. Aflaq, who was a pioneer Arab nationalist, died at a time when his dreams of Arab unity seemed more distant than when he started preaching the philosophy in Damascus schools 50 years ago.
        In the Iraqi capital, radio stations switched from normal programs to broadcasting verses from the Koran and religious music. A statement issued today by the party's leaders described Mr. Aflaq as ''a pioneer of the human progressive Arab nationalist thought'' who ''had led Arab masses for decades in their struggle against imperialism and for Arab unity.'' Conversion Reported
        The statement said he was a Christian who had converted to Islam. The conversion had not been made public during his lifetime, it said, because both he and party leaders did not want it to be interpreted politically.
        The Syrian-born Mr. Aflaq studied in Damascus and attended university in Paris, returning to the Syrian capital as a schoolmaster in 1934.
        He preached militant Arab nationalism, secularism and socialism - radical precepts meant to arouse the Arabs after several centuries of Turkish rule and to unite against the then French and British rulers. ''One Arab nation with an eternal message,'' was his slogan.
        His brand of secular, radical politics put him immediately at odds with the conservative nationalists of the day who were fighting French rule imposed on Syria by the victors of World War I. Bitter Split With Syria His party, founded in 1947, soon established a strong following among officers in the Syrian Army and was involved in many of the military coups that destabilized the country in the 1950's. The Baathists came to power in 1963 in Syria and 1968 in Iraq, but split into rival factions; soldiers took over the movement in Syria and forced Aflaq abroad in 1968.
        The Iraqi Baath party, with which Mr. Aflaq came to be aligned, has for years now been a bitter rival of the Syrian party. There was no comment on Mr. Aflaq's death from Damascus.
        Mr. Aflaq had been out of the mainstream of Arab politics for about 20 years.
        He spent most of his last years in Baghdad in virtual isolation, rarely appearing in public, although he held the title of Pan-Arab General Secretary of the party, taking formal precedence over Iraq's powerful President, Saddam Hussein.
      