
       Alfred Winslow Jones, an investor who founded one of the first hedge funds on Wall Street, died in his sleep yesterday morning at his home in Redding, Conn. He was 88 years old and had been in declining health in recent weeks. He also had an apartment in Manhattan.
        Alfred Winslow Jones, an investor who founded one of the first hedge funds on Wall Street, died in his sleep yesterday morning at his home in Redding, Conn. He was 88 years old and had been in declining health in recent weeks. He also had an apartment in Manhattan.
        Besides being an investor, Mr. Jones was a sociologist, humanitarian, author and former officer of the United States Foreign Service.
        Mr. Jones was born in Melbourne, Australia, the son of Arthur Winslow Jones, an executive of General Electric, and his wife, the former Elizabeth Huntington. He came to the United States with his family when he was 4.
        He graduated from Harvard College in 1923, and, after working as purser on a tramp steamer around the world, he joined the Foreign Service. In the early 1930's, at the time of Hitler's rise to power, he was vice consul in Berlin.
        After his marriage in 1936 to Mary Carter, he and his wife traveled in Spain during that country's civil war, reporting on civilian relief for the Quakers. In 1941, he earned a doctorate in sociology at Columbia University. His doctoral thesis, ''Life, Liberty and Property,'' a survey of attitudes toward property among different social classes in the United States, was published by Lippincott and became a standard sociology textbook. A new edition is in preparation by the University of Akron Press. From Editing to Investing
        From 1941 to 1946, Mr. Jones was an editor at Fortune magazine. His studies of ''Fashions in Forecasting'' led him to believe he could do as well as many professional investors. In 1949, he founded one of the first hedge funds with a capital of $100,000. Hedge funds are private pools of capital run by money managers who trade rapidly in and out of the market for short-term gains.
        Fortune wrote in 1966, ''There is reason to believe that the best professional manager of investors' money these days is a quiet-spoken, seldom-photographed man named Alfred Winslow Jones.''
        In the world of finance, Mr. Jones preferred to remain almost invisible. ''Hedging,'' he once said, ''is a speculative tool used to conservative ends,'' but he did not as a rule discuss what he did, let alone how he did it. Personal management was the key to the success of A. W. Jones & Company, which in 1968 was estimated to have had gains well in excess of 1,000 percent over the previous 10 years.
        In later years, he gradually disengaged himself from his office and gave his time to the Peace Corps and the Reverse Peace Corps, an organization he founded that brought foreigners to work with the poor in this country.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Anthony Winslow Jones, and a daughter, Dale Burch, both of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M. Saturday at Christ Episcopal Church in Redding Ridge, Conn.
      