
       Stephen David Hassenfeld, an executive who led Hasbro Inc. as it became one of the world's largest toy manufacturers, died Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York City. He was 47 years old.
        Stephen David Hassenfeld, an executive who led Hasbro Inc. as it became one of the world's largest toy manufacturers, died Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York City. He was 47 years old.
        Mr. Hassenfeld was hospitalized four weeks ago and died of pneumonia and cardiac arrest, said Wayne Charness, a spokesman for the company, which is based in Pawtucket, R.I.
        Mr. Hassenfeld, who had homes in Manhattan, Palm Beach, Fla., and Bristol, R.I., was born in Providence, R.I., and attended John Hopkins University in Baltimore from 1959 to 1962. In 1964 he joined Hasbro, which was founded by his grandfather in 1923 as a distributor of fabric remnants. He was named vice president for marketing in 1967, executive vice president in 1968, president in 1974 and chairman and chief executive officer in 1980.
        Nine years ago, when he became chairman of the company, it was the nation's sixth largest toy manufacturer, with annual sales of about $100 million. Today the company says it is the world's largest, with sales of more than $1.3 billion. G.I. Joe and Transformers
        Much of Hasbro's success is attributed by business specialists to Mr. Hassenfeld's aggressive acquisition of other toy manufacturers, based in large part on the phenomenal success of its G.I Joe line of 3 1/2-inch plastic soldiers, and of Transformers, vehicular toys that convert into robot figures.
        In 1984 Hasbro acquired the Milton Bradley Company, the nation's fifth largest toy manufacturer, and doubled its size. Hasbro also acquired Knickerbocker, Playskool and Child Guidance toys, and it is in the final stages of acquiring the assets of Coleco Industries, the bankrupt manufacturer of Cabbage Patch dolls.
        Mr. Hassenfeld founded the Hasbro Children's Foundation in 1984 to provide help to poor and homeless children. He was also active in business, civic and charitable causes, including the American Stock Exchange, the Rhode Island Jewish Federation, the National Council of Christians and Jews, the United Way and the Rhode Island Strategic Development Committee, and was a trustee of Johns Hopkins University.
        He was awarded honorary doctorate degrees from Rhode Island College, Bryant College, Providence College and Roger Williams College. He also received the national humanitarian award of the Rhode Island Council of the National Jewish Hospital and the Humanitarian of the Year award from the Rhode Island Big Brothers Association.
        He is survived by his mother, Sylvia Kay Hassenfeld, of Manhattan; a brother, Alan G. Hassenfeld, of Bristol, R.I., who is president of Hasbro, and a sister, Ellen Block, of Chicago.
      