
       Dr. Frederick J. Hacker, a Vienna-born psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who was an expert on aggression and terrorism, died last Friday in Mainz, West Germany. He was 75 years old and lived in Los Angeles and Vienna.
        Dr. Frederick J. Hacker, a Vienna-born psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who was an expert on aggression and terrorism, died last Friday in Mainz, West Germany. He was 75 years old and lived in Los Angeles and Vienna.
        Dr John R. Black of Los Angeles, a psychiatrist who was a longtime colleague, said Dr. Hacker collapsed while appearing on a West German television program and died soon afterward, apparently of cardiac arrest.
        Frederick Hacker grew up in Austria, studied at the University of Vienna, fled Nazism and earned his medical degree at the University of Basel in Switzerland in 1939. Founder of Clinic in West
        He took further training in the United States and in 1945 founded the Hacker Psychiatric Clinic, which has offices in Los Angeles and Lynwood, Calif. He was a naturalized American citizen and for years had divided his time between California and Vienna.
        In 1955, as a witness at a Senate subcommittee hearing on juvenile delinquency, Dr. Hacker testified that impressions gained by viewing movies could serve as a ''trigger mechanism'' that set off latent tendencies toward abnormal behavior.
        Later Dr. Hacker was a court-appointed expert in the murders of the actress Sharon Tate and several other Hollywood figures, in which Charles Manson and a number of his followers were convicted. Dr. Hacker also worked with the Hearst family after Patricia Hearst was kidnapped in San Francisco in 1974, and with the West German authorities after the terrorist killings at the Munich Olympics of 1972.
        Dr. Hacker's books included ''Crusaders, Criminals, Crazies: Terror and Terrorism in Our Time,'' which came out in 1977.
        He taught at the University of Southern California and was a life fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. From 1968 to 1977 he was president of the Sigmund Freud Society in Vienna.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anastasia Lohr, and a brother, Hannes Hacker of Los Angeles.
      