
       Frederic Prokosch, an American novelist and poet who wrote a score of books and also did translations from the Greek, French and German, died yesterday at his home in Plan de Grasse in the Alpes Maritimes in France, where he had lived for many years. He was 81 years old and was hospitalized a week ago as a result of a heart attack.
        Frederic Prokosch, an American novelist and poet who wrote a score of books and also did translations from the Greek, French and German, died yesterday at his home in Plan de Grasse in the Alpes Maritimes in France, where he had lived for many years. He was 81 years old and was hospitalized a week ago as a result of a heart attack.
        Mr. Prokosch's first novel, ''The Asiatics,'' was published to great acclaim in 1935. It was reissued in 1983 by Farrar, Straus & Giroux, which simultaneously published his last book, ''Voices,'' a memoir that was praised for its portraits of some of the outstanding 20th-century authors and artists.
        ''The Asiatics,'' about a young American who makes his way from Beirut, Lebanon, across Asia to China, was acclaimed by T. S. Eliot, Andre Gide, Thomas Mann and Albert Camus. At the time of publication, Mr. Prokosch said that the novel was partially autobiographical but mostly fictional. 'Skirmished About a Bit'
        ''I believe all of 'The Asiatics' is accurate, geographically and socially speaking,'' he said after the novel's original publication. ''I've skirmished about a bit in northern Africa and western Asia, and now I'm off to the Balkans, Bukhara and Samarkand.''
        Among Mr. Prokosch's other novels were ''The Missolonghi Manuscript'' (1968), ''The Wreck of the Cassandra'' (1966), ''The Dark Dancer'' (1964), ''The Seven Sisters'' (1962) and ''A Ballad of Love'' (1960), all published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
        In his memoir, ''Voices'' (1983), he described his encounters with, among others, James Joyce, T. S. Eliot, W. H. Auden, Alice B. Toklas and Gertrude Stein, Wallace Stevens, Robert Frost, Marianne Moore and Mann. He said that Mann had told him that if he could write it again, ''Death in Venice'' would be a very different novella, more illuminating and less mystifying. Attended Yale and Cambridge
        Mr. Prokosch was born in Madison, Wis., on May 17, 1908, and was educated at Haverford College, Yale and King's College, Cambridge, England. He served as an instructor in English at Yale from 1932 to 1934. During World War II, he was cultural attache of the American Legation in Stockholm. After the war, he was a visiting lecturer at the University of Rome.
        He is survived by a brother, Walther, of Cambridge, Mass., and a sister, Gertrude Kurath, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
      