
       William J. Grede, an industrialist who joined in the founding of the John Birch Society, died in his sleep Monday at the Congregational Nursing Home in Brookfield, Wis. He was 92 years old.
        William J. Grede, an industrialist who joined in the founding of the John Birch Society, died in his sleep Monday at the Congregational Nursing Home in Brookfield, Wis. He was 92 years old.
        In 1920, when he was 23 years old, Mr. Grede bought the Liberty Foundry in Wauwatosa, a suburb of Milwaukee. He served as chief executive of the company for 53 years, by which time it had become Grede Foundries Inc., one of the nation's largest independent producers of ductile iron and steel.
        Mr. Grede was one of 11 men who joined Robert H. W. Welch Jr. in Indianapolis in 1958 to found the John Birch Society. Mr. Grede was honored for his service to the right-wing political organization as recently as 1986. In 1953 he received the award of the Freedom Foundation of Valley Forge, Pa. Militant Opponent of Unions
        He was militantly anti-union, fighting attempts by the United Steelworkers of America and other unions to organize his employees. From 1956 to 1961 he was a top official of the J. I. Case Company, a manufacturer of farm equipment, which underwent a bitter strike by the United Automobile Workers.
        Mr. Grede, a quintessential rugged individualist who served as president of the National Association of Manufacturers in 1952, once referred to the progressive income tax as ''the very foundation of all socialistic programs, the most socializing agency in the country.''
        In 1960 he was named to represent employers at labor-management meetings convened by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Upon learning that Mr. Grede was a member of the John Birch Society, the President threatened to remove him but was dissuaded.
        Mr. Grede, who was a native of Milwaukee, attended the University of Wisconsin, paying his expenses by selling aluminum pots and pans door to door. After two years his father, a retired carriage maker, urged him to quit college and enter business. Several Honorary Degrees
        Mr. Grede took his father's advice and in 1917 became assistant to the president of a foundry in Decatur, Ill. But he soon left to join the Army, serving as a second lieutenant in the infantry in World War I. Many years later, after receiving one of several honorary degrees, he said his ''one regret'' was that he never finished college.
        Mr. Grede was a former president of the Wisconsin Manufactuurers Association and the Employers' Association of Milwaukee.
        From 1947 to 1961 he was a director of the Federal Reserve Bank's Seventh District. He also served for several years on the national council of the Young Men's Christian Association.
        Mr. Grede, who lived in Elm Grove, Wis., is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Weiss; two daughters, Janet Jacobs and Betty Davis, both of Milwaukee; 10 grandchildren, and 22 great-grandchildren.
      