
       Morton Da Costa, a director who had four Broadway hits in three years during the mid-1950's, died Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in West Redding, Conn.
        Morton Da Costa, a director who had four Broadway hits in three years during the mid-1950's, died Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in West Redding, Conn.
        His assistant, Peter Flint, said Mr. Da Costa had suffered a heart attack at home.
        Among the scores of shows and films directed by Mr. Da Costa were four theatrical productions that made him one of Broadway's most-lauded directors. They were ''Plain and Fancy,'' a musical about the Amish, and ''No Time for Sergeants,'' an Army comedy, in 1955; ''Auntie Mame'' in 1956 and, in 1957, ''The Music Man,'' Meredith Willson's popular musical about a con man in a small town.
        Mr. Da Costa later directed the successful film versions of ''Auntie Mame'' and ''The Music Man.''
        As a director, just as he had previously done as an actor, Mr. Da Costa assumed all manner of assignments, from musical to straight play to high drama. He directed the stage version of ''The Wall,'' John Hersey's account of the Warsaw Ghetto in wartime Poland, in 1960 and, in 1973, he undertook the staging of a revival of Clare Booth Luce's play ''The Women.''
        His credits included a series of productions at the City Center, where, under the aegis of Maurice Evans, he staged shows like ''The Alchemist'' with Jose Ferrer; ''Dream Girl'' with Judy Holliday,'' and ''She Stoops to Conquer'' with Brian Aherne and Burl Ives. For two seasons, he directed musicals for the St. Louis Musical Opera. He was a co-founder of the Civic Repertory Theater in Dayton, Ohio, and had operated his own summer theater in Cragsmoor, N.Y.
        His last directorial effort on Broadway, in 1985, was for David Wiltse's play ''Doubles.'' After he moved to Connecticut in the mid-1970's for what he called ''semi-retirement,'' he was active in the Darien Dinner Theater and the Westport Theater Artists' Workshop.  He was born in Philadelphia, youngest of 10 children in the Tecosky family.
        He set out to be a teacher and attended Temple University, where he took drama courses and became assistant to the head of the drama department. Upon graduation, he toured with the Clare Tree Major Children's Theater of New York. In 1942, Mr. Da Costa appeared on Broadway in Thornton Wilder's ''Skin of Our Teeth,'' with Tallulah Bankhead and Fredric March.
        Mr. Da Costa is survived by two sisters, Lillian Nath of Englewood, N.J., and Mrs. Edward Gordy of Atlantic City.
      