
       Richmond Crinkley, who became the focus of intense controversy during his five years as executive director of the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center in the early 1980's, died of cancer Sunday at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, Va. He was 49 years old.
        Richmond Crinkley, who became the focus of intense controversy during his five years as executive director of the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center in the early 1980's, died of cancer Sunday at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, Va. He was 49 years old.
        Mr. Crinkley was virtually unknown to the New York theater community when it was announced in 1979 that he would succeed Joseph Papp as head of the prestigious theater company. Shortly after the announcement, however, ''The Elephant Man,'' which he co-produced Off Broadway, became a hit, and Mr. Crinkley moved it to Broadway where it was a resounding success. The play won a string of prizes including the Tony Award for best play.
        In November 1980, Mr. Crinkley reopened the then long-dark Beaumont Theater with a season of plays including ''Macbeth,'' ''The Philadelphia Story'' and a new play by Woody Allen called ''The Floating Light Bulb.'' In general, the productions were not well received, and thereafter the theater remained closed.
        Mr. Crinkley soon became locked in conflict with Martin E. Segal, the chairman of Lincoln Center, because of Mr. Crinkley's steadfast refusal to reopen the theater. Among the factors at issue were whether or not the Beaumont Theater should be physically redesigned. Mr. Crinkley and his board maintained that extensive and costly renovation was required before a new season could be planned. whereas, Mr. Segal and his supporters said that the top priority should be the development of a ''coherent'' artistic policy. His 'Little Comic Opera'
        Mr. Crinkley sometimes referred to the conflict as ''my little comic opera,'' but the dispute continued until 1984 when the Lincoln Center board took a series of measures which included stripping the Beaumont of the use of the words ''Lincoln Center'' in its name, and denying the theater access to Lincoln Center funds. Eventually, the sanctions were removed in exchange for an agreement by the Beaumont board to enlarge itself with a new majority and elect new leadership.
        The board then nearly doubled its size and elected John V. Lindsay, the former Mayor of New York City, as chairman. Mr. Crinkley's supporters were thus outnumbered and within a few days he resigned.
        Richmond Dillard Crinkley was born in Blackstone, a small town in rural south central Virginia, and earned a record as a brilliant student at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. He was graduated as a member of Phi Beta Kappa and went on at the University of Virgina to earn Master's and Doctor of Philosophy degrees. From 1965 to 1967, he was a Fulbright Fellow. A Director at Folger Library
        Between 1969 and 1973, Mr. Crinkley served as director of programs of the Folger Shakespeare Library and producer of the Folger Theater Group in Washington where his energy and ebullience attracted the attention of Roger L. Stevens, then chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. For the next three years, Mr. Crinkley was Mr. Stevens's assistant. He then moved to New York City where he was executive director of the American National Theater and Academy from 1976 to 1979.
        Besides ''The Elephant Man,'' Mr. Crinkley produced ''Tintypes'' and ''Passion'' on Broadway. He also produced a number of shows for ABC television.
        After leaving the Beaumont Theater, Mr. Crinkley established Cerberus Enterprises Inc., a theatrical production company of which he was president. At the time of his death, he was also a trustee of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and a member of the advisory board of the National Society of Arts and Letters, Washington chapter.
        Mr. Crinkley is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Epes Crinkley of Blackstone, and a brother, James E. Crinkley Jr., of Colonial Heights, Va.
        Funeral services will be held at the Blackstone Presbyterian Church in Blackstone, Va. on Wednesday at 2 P.M.
      