
       Albert Spaggiari, a photographer who confessed to being the mastermind of an elaborate 1976 bank robbery on the Riviera that captivated all of France and gained international notoriety as ''the heist of the century,'' died Friday in an undisclosed location. He was 57 years old and had reportedly suffered from lung cancer.
        Albert Spaggiari, a photographer who confessed to being the mastermind of an elaborate 1976 bank robbery on the Riviera that captivated all of France and gained international notoriety as ''the heist of the century,'' died Friday in an undisclosed location. He was 57 years old and had reportedly suffered from lung cancer.
        Mr. Spaggiari's body was left outside his mother's house yesterday in Hyeres, on the Riviera, The Associated Press reported, quoting the local police and a lawyer for Mr. Spaggiari.
        Before his death, Mr. Spaggiari had evaded and taunted law enforcement officials for 12 years, since his escape through a window in a magistrate's office. His picture periodically turned up in newspapers and magazines, above captions such as ''Hello from Albert.'' Wrote Book on Heist
        At one point, he wrote his own account of the robbery, titled ''Fric-Frac,'' from a ranch in Argentina that he said he had purchased with his share of the robbery proceeds. At one point, he was said to have had his face surgically altered to prevent recognition.
        The robbery took place in Nice during a peaceful summer weekend in 1976. A team of 20 men, led by Mr. Spaggiari, burst into the vault of the Societe Generale bank from a 25-foot tunnel they had carved over the previous several weeks between the bank and a branch of the city sewer system. They worked from Friday to Sunday, emptying safe-deposit boxes and seizing most of the bank's cash reserves. The group, which became known as the ''sewer gang,'' escaped with $8 million to $10 million in gold, cash, jewelry and gems. During their stay in the vault, they cooked meals, drank wine and used antique silver tureens as toilets.
        When bank officials discovered the scene on Monday, July 19, they found a message from the gang, ''Without Guns, Without Violence, Without Hate,'' scrawled on one wall of the vault. Arrest and Confession
        After a lengthy investigation, detectives closed in on Mr. Spaggiari in Nice and pried his confession from him. He was jailed shortly thereafter but escaped on March 10, 1977, from a magistrate's office. He complained of the heat, got up and opened a window, and leaped out of it, landing on a car nine feet below. He was whisked away on the back of a motorcycle. The driver, Gerard Rang, was later arrested, and Mr. Spaggiari was sentenced in absentia to life in prison.
        Six other men were arrested with Mr. Spaggiari in the robbery, which inspired a film, ''The Sewers of Paradise.'' Three of them were acquitted and the others were given prison sentences of five to seven years. In 1980, a Paris bank was robbed of $12 million and the same message used in the Nice incident, plus the word ''Thanks,'' was found on one wall. Mr. Spaggiari was not charged in that robbery.
        In his book. Mr. Spaggiari complained of the messy conditions under which he worked to bring off the Nice heist. He also mourned that he was unable to open 3,500 safe-deposit boxes because he lacked the proper equipment, and described using mass quantities of bubble bath to help scrub off the sewer slime.
        His survivors include his mother, whose name was not immediately available. . Mr. Spaggiari, who was married at the time of the Societe Generale robbery, had no children.
      