
       Charles A. Cola Jr., a member of the Yonkers City Council during a bitter battle over housing desegregation last August, died early yesterday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 54 years old. Mr. Cola, who was born in Yonkers, was hospitalized several times this year. The cause of his death was not disclosed.
        Charles A. Cola Jr., a member of the Yonkers City Council during a bitter battle over housing desegregation last August, died early yesterday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 54 years old. Mr. Cola, who was born in Yonkers, was hospitalized several times this year. The cause of his death was not disclosed.
        He was one of three councilmen who were outvoted last August when the four other council members voted to oppose a court-ordered housing desegregation plan. The city remained in contempt of court for 40 days, until two opponents of the plan changed their votes to save the city from mounting court fines that threatened to bankrupt the city.
        Mr. Cola called for racial reconciliation and urged residents of the divided community to ''join hands in making sure that Yonkers becomes the gracious city that it once was.'' Served Six Council Terms
        Mr. Cola served four terms on the council, from 1971 to 1979, as a Republican. He lost his campaign for a fifth term in 1979, but won the seat back two years later and served another term. During the late 1970's, he argued that Yonkers should secede from Westchester County and form its own county.
        He ran for the New York State Assembly in 1976, for mayor of Yonkers in 1983 and for Westchester County legislator in 1985, all unsuccessfully.
        However, in 1987, Mr. Cola was elected to another two-year term on the council, this time as a Democrat.
        He was a founder of the North Yonkers Boys and Girls Club and the North Yonkers Preservation and Development Corporation, which ran programs both for young people and for the elderly and aided tenants' groups in dealing with landlords.
        Mr. Cola was director of the Forastiere Funeral Home in Yonkers, which is handling arrangements for his funeral at 9:45 A.M. Thursday at Christ the King Church in Yonkers.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara, seven children and six grandchildren.
      