
       Alexis Lichine, an internationally known wine expert and author of landmark reference books in the field, died of cancer yesterday at Chateau Prieure-Lichine, his home in Bordeaux, France. He was 76 years old and had been ill for about six months.
        Alexis Lichine, an internationally known wine expert and author of landmark reference books in the field, died of cancer yesterday at Chateau Prieure-Lichine, his home in Bordeaux, France. He was 76 years old and had been ill for about six months.
        Mr. Lichine was widely credited with introducing many in several generations of Americans to wine through his books and lectures and the wines that bore his name.
        He was born in 1913 in Moscow, where his father was a businessman. On the eve of the Bolshevik Revolution, the family fled eastward through Vladivostok to the United States. They lived in New York City for several years before moving to Paris to join the sizable White-Russian community there.
        Mr. Lichine attended a lycee in Paris. His father ran tour buses for a time and his son worked for him as a multilingual guide. Mr. Lichine then took a job selling advertising space for the Paris edition of The New York Herald Tribune, which took him back and forth across France just as Prohibition was ending in the United States. A Job in a Wine Shop
        He saw a vast market opening up in the United States for French wines and in 1935 returned to New York to take a job in a retail wine shop.
        Two years later, he teamed up with Frank Schoonmaker, a New Yorker writer turned wine importer. Mr. Lichine aways credited Raymond Badouin, Mr. Schoonmaker's supplier in France, with teaching him the fundamentals of tasting and buying wine.
        During World War II, Mr. Lichine served as a major in Army intelligence in southern France and Corsica. He later admitted that his superiors were more interested in his credentials as a connoisseur and often sent him out to ''requisition'' fine food and wines for high-level dinners and conferences.
        After the war, he returned to importing wine and divided his time between New York and Bordeaux, where in 1955 he founded Alexis Lichine & Company, which he sold 11 years later to a British brewing conglomerate.
        In 1951, he brought out his first book, ''The Wines of France,'' which went through five editions until it was revised in 1979 and became ''Alexis Lichine's Guide to the Wines and Vineyards of France'' (Alfred A. Knopf). That book is in its third edition. His ''Encyclopedia of Wines and Spirits'' (Knopf) first appeared in 1967 and is in its fifth edition. A Former Priory
        In 1951, he bought a run-down wine chateau, Chateau Prieure-Cantenac, in the village of Cantenac, about 15 miles north of the city of Bordeaux. The Prieure, which had been a Benedictine priory in the Middle Ages, had fallen into virtual ruin, even though it had been rated as a third-growth chateau in the 1855 classfication of Bordeaux chateaux. The Committee of Classified Growths permitted Mr. Lichine to change the name to Prieure-Lichine.
        In 1953, he purchased parts of two famous vineyards in Burgundy and in 1955 put together a syndicate that included David Rockefeller, Paul Manheim and Gilbert Kahn to purchase Chateau Lascombes, a prominent wine property not far from his own Prieure. Lascombes, a second-growth chauteau, was sold in 1971. Both chateaux are in the prestigious Margaux region and use that name or appellation on their bottles.
        During the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Lichine made three or four six-week trips a year though the United States, selling wines, conducting tastings and giving lectures. In Bordeaux, he startled and often irritated the conservative wine establishment with his often irreverent remarks about their wines in his two books and with his American-style promotions for his wine and for himself. He erected large billboards in the vineyards inviting tourists to his two chateaux. A Close Relationship
        He formed a close, if not always warm, relationship with Philippe de Rothschild, the owner of the famed Chateau Mouton-Rothschild and a skilled wine salesman and promoter. For many years, one of Mr. Lichine's closest confidants in France was Seymour Weller, who ran Chateau Haut-Brion for the Dillon family in the United States.
        Mr. Lichine maintained a vast apartment on Fifth Avenue, at 81st Street, in Manhattan but in later years spent most of his time at his beloved Prieure, making his wines, planning new cellars and entertaining.
        He was married three times, most recently to the film actress Arlene Dahl, who has since remarried.
        He is survived by a sister, Irene Belesiotis of St. Petersburg, Fla.; a son, Sacha, of Bordeaux and Manhattan, and a daughter, Alexandra, of Manhattan.
        A Russian Orthodox funeral service is scheduled tomorrow in the Cantenac church that was originally part of the Prieure, with burial in the vineyards at Prieure-Lichine.
      