
       Abraham Chasanow, a retired Navy Department official who was suspended as a security risk in July 1953 and restored to his position 13 months later, died of an aneurysm Sunday at the Atlantic City Medical Center. He was 78 years old and had homes in Silver Spring, Md., and Miami.
        Abraham Chasanow, a retired Navy Department official who was suspended as a security risk in July 1953 and restored to his position 13 months later, died of an aneurysm Sunday at the Atlantic City Medical Center. He was 78 years old and had homes in Silver Spring, Md., and Miami.
        Mr. Chasanow, who was vacationing in Atlantic City when he died, spent 23 years with the Navy Hydrographic Office before leaving in 1955. Thirteen months of that time he spent fighting a dismissal on security charges that originated with an accuser who was never identified. After a series of highly publicized hearings, in which the Navy did not produce evidence to support the charge, and indications of anti-Semitism, Mr. Chasanow triumphed.
        He was reinstated, with the Navy apologizing for ''a grave injustice.'' He subsequently resigned as director of the distribution control office of the Hydrographic Office when the post was abolished after a management study, with which he concurred. At the time, a Navy spokesman said Mr. Chasanow had been offered another Navy job, but had decided to retire.
        Anthony Lewis, then a reporter with The Washington Daily News, which is defunct, won the Pultizer Prize for national reporting in 1955 for a series of articles describing Mr. Chasanow's ordeal. Mr. Lewis is now a columnist for The New York Times.
        Mr. Chasanow, a graduate of what is now the American University Law School, went on to practice law and became a real estate broker. He operated a Maryland real estate agency from the mid-1950's until he retired in the late 1970's. He also contributed a poetry column to The Washington Post.
        A widower, he is survived by a son, Judge Howard Chasanow of College Park, Md.; three daughters, Phyllis Richman of Washington, Myrna Chasanow of Cheverly, Md., and Ruth Heitin of Alexandria, Va.; two sisters, Anna Goldstein of Philadelphia and Freda Goldfarb of Seal Beach, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      