
       Howard Simons, a former managing editor of The Washington Post, died yesterday of pancreatic cancer in a hospice of Methodist Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 60 years old and lived in Jacksonville Beach.
        Howard Simons, a former managing editor of The Washington Post, died yesterday of pancreatic cancer in a hospice of Methodist Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 60 years old and lived in Jacksonville Beach.
        Until recently, Mr. Simons had been curator of the Nieman Foundation, which sponsors a prestigious sabbatical program in which mid-career journalists are given a year of study at Harvard University.
        Mr. Simons was known as a journalistic traditionalist who prized aggressive reporting and was outspokenly critical of what he considered to be a modern trend toward lighter, less serious newspapers and an undue dependence on anonymous sources.
        ''He played a vital role in everything that the paper did,'' Benjamin C. Bradlee, executive editor of The Post, said in an interview yesterday. ''He was a powerhouse here, and a mensch.''
        As managing editor of The Post, Mr. Simons helped direct the paper's investigation of the 1972 Watergate burglary that eventually led to the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon two years later.
        ''He got short-changed by the movie,'' Mr. Bradlee said, referring to the film ''All the President's Men,'' noting that Mr. Simons ''led the charge'' on Watergate.
        Mr. Simons's journalistic hallmark was an energetic aggresiveness that he sometimes described as ''280 miles per hour going into first.'' In recent years, he often railed at what he considered to be a dearth of probing investigative reporting. ''How could Ollie North have gotten away with it for so long?'' he asked rhetorically in an interview a month ago. Broadened Reach of Program
        In 1984, after 13 years as managing editor of The Post, Mr. Simons became curator of the Nieman Foundation. The appointment suited his custom of nurturing those who worked for him with a mixture of affection and hard-boiled hectoring.
        Mr. Simons had been a Nieman Fellow in the class of 1959, and as curator broadened the program's reach to include more journalists from parts of Africa and South America. He had also successfully led a fund-raising campaign that increased the foundation's endowment by over $1 million.
        In early April, Mr. Simons learned that he was terminally ill with pancreatic cancer and elected not to take any treatment, instead addressing his illness with the frankness and astringent wit that had been one of his signatures. He said he had bet his doctor that he had incurable liver cancer, and was angry at himself as a former science writer for the misdiagnosis. When asked what he was going to do in Florida, he would crack that he planned to sunbathe without sunscreen.
        Though clearly in a weakened state, he insisted on fulfilling his duties as host at ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of the Nieman program.
        Late last month, he resigned as curator and went to Jacksonville Beach with Tod, his wife of 32 years, where he was able to indulge his passions for fishing and bird-watching. Mrs. Simons said yesterday that upon arriving in Florida he had plunged into collecting and categorizing seashells.
        ''We have lost one of the great spirits and souls of American journalism,'' said Bill Kovach, who was named acting curator of the Nieman Foundation last month. Started as Science Writer
        Mr. Simons was a native of Albany, N.Y., and received a bachelor of arts degree from Union College in Schenectady in 1951 and a master's degree a year later from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
        After service in the Korean War, he became a science reporter in Washington for several news organizations, and joined The Post as a science writer in 1961. He became assistant managing editor in 1966 and managing editor in 1971.
        Mr. Simons was the author of ''Jewish Times: Voices of the American Jewish Experience,'' published by Houghton-Mifflin in 1988, and ''Simons' List Book,'' published in 1977. He edited two books with Joseph A Califano Jr., ''The Media and the Law'' and ''The Media and Business,'' and in 1986 wrote a spy novel with Haynes Johnson called ''The Landing.''
        Mrs. Simons said yesterday that there was as yet no plan to memorialize her husband. ''His memorial service was really the last two months,'' she said of the flood of letters, articles and visitors after Mr. Simons's illness became public.
        Mr. Simons is survived by his wife, the former Tod Katz, and four daughters: Anna, who returned from studies in Africa to be with her father; Isabel, who lives in Maryland; Julie, of Washington, and Rebecca, of New York City. He is also survived by a brother, Sanford Simons.
      