
       Robin Howard, who helped establish modern dance in England as the founder of the London Contemporary Dance Theater, died on Sunday night at the University College Hospital in London, where he was admitted last week after a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        Robin Howard, who helped establish modern dance in England as the founder of the London Contemporary Dance Theater, died on Sunday night at the University College Hospital in London, where he was admitted last week after a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        ''He was the first human being who treated modern dancers and choreographers as first-class citizens,'' Charles Reinhart, the director of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., said yesterday. ''He sponsored many of the major modern-dance companies in England in the early 60's. He so fell in love with modern dance that he willed it into England single-handedly. He had restaurants, casinos and hotels. He sold all of this to start modern dance in England.''
        Mr. Howard became involved in modern dance after seeing a performance by the Martha Graham Dance Company in London in 1954. A ballet fan, Mr. Howard, who lost both legs in World War II, once said he had been drawn to that art ''partly because it was a total contrast to warfare.'' But Miss Graham ''bowled me over and changed my life,'' he recalled. ''All my life I will be in Martha's debt.''
        In 1963, Mr. Howard presented the Graham company in London, and later served for two years as executive director of the Graham company in New York City. As director of international service for the United Nations Association in Britain, Mr. Howard worked with refugees and continued that work into the 1980's, but he was urged to maintain his association with Miss Graham by young British dancers who were excited by the London season. A Man of High Connections
        Mr. Howard was born in London and educated at Eton College at Cambridge University. He trained in law, but was mainly involved in many small businesses and ventures, among them the establishment of the Elizabethan Room of the Gore Hotel in London, one of several innovative London restaurants that he started. The great-grandson of Donald Allen Smith, Lord Strathcona, the railroad magnate and philanthropist, and the grandson of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin, Mr. Howard did not hesitate to use his social connections and wealth to establish the Graham technique in London.
        His first move was to send English dancers to study at the Graham school in New York. When the dancers were hired by American companies, Mr. Howard helped initiate Graham classes in London in 1965, inviting Graham dancers to teach. ''Until then I still thought I'd be able to stop next week,'' he said. ''I merely did what people in dance thought was needed next.''
        In 1967, Mr. Howard founded the London Contemporary Dance Theater, then known as the London Contemporary Dance Group, with Robert Cohan, a noted Graham dancer and associate director of her company, as artistic director. He also established the Place, a leading dance school in London.
        An Unlikely Setting The Graham technique was used to train dancers. The company's first repertory dances were by Miss Graham, Mr. Cohan and leading dancers in the Graham company in New York City. But the English company, which gave its first official performance in 1969, encouraged choreography in a variety of styles and helped establish English modern dance in a country known for its love of ballet. With the Rambert Dance Company, it is the leading modern-dance company in England.
        He also helped support young painters, and he had a strong interest in music.
        Mr. Howard was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1976. He was elected president of the International Dance Council of the International Theater Institute of Unesco in meetings in Helsinki, Finland, late last month.
        He is survived by his mother, Lady Lorna Howard; his sisters, Kiloren Russell and Jill Lumsden, and his brother, Alexander.
      