
       George A. Koopman, an enterpreneur in space technology who founded the American Rocket Company, was killed in an automobile accident Wednesday in Lancaster, Calif. He was 44 years old and lived in Malibu, Calif.
        George A. Koopman, an enterpreneur in space technology who founded the American Rocket Company, was killed in an automobile accident Wednesday in Lancaster, Calif. He was 44 years old and lived in Malibu, Calif.
        Mr. Koopman was driving alone from his home to the Edwards Air Force Astronautics Laboratory, where his company is testing a rocket motor. His car overturned, and he died of head injuries, said Anita Storey, a spokeswoman for Amroc, as the company is known.
        In addition to his rocket work, Mr. Koopman was an intelligence analyst in the Vietnam War, a maker of military training films for the Government and the coordinator of spectacular stunts in the 1980 movie ''The Blues Brothers.'' Into Technology for Space
        Four years ago he formed the rocket company with Bevin McKinney, an aerospace engineer, and James Bennett, a researcher who helped Congress draft the law allowing commercial space launchings.
        The company, whose headquarters are in Camarillo, Calif., states as its purpose developing the technology to deliver commercial and government payloads into space. Amroc is preparing the test launching Aug. 14 of the first nonmilitary rocket designed and built by private industry.
        Mr. Koopman's main purpose at Amroc had been to exploit a market for low-cost rockets that can deliver small payloads into orbits 600 miles or less above the earth. The payloads would include modest-sized scientific experiments, packages for processing materials in space and, perhaps, elements of the anti-satellite missile defense.
        Mr. Bennett said yesterday that Amroc planned to charge $8 million a launching, as against $50 million charged by big contractors that typically send vehicles into orbits up to 22,300 miles above earth. Childhood Seed of Fascination
        Mr. Koopman's fascination with flying and space activities dated to his childhood. He was born in Austin, Tex., and was taken on his first helicopter ride when he was 4. He attended five institutions of higher education - Wesleyan, the University of California, the University of the Seven Seas, Springfield College and the Case Institute of Technology - but did not receive a college degree.
        Before he became a space entrepreneur, the activity that gained Mr. Koopman the most attention was coordinating stunts for ''The Blues Brothers,'' which starred John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd and offered wild automobile chases staged by Mr. Koopman. The special effects won critical acclaim, but the film, whose cost had been run up to $33 million, in large part by the stunts, lost money.
        Mr. Koopman was a member of the board of the National Space Society.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Jacqueline Baker; two daughters, Lisa and Jane; a son, Joel; three sisters, Rena, of Newton, Mass.; Dorothy, of Alexandria, Va., and Beatrice, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and two brothers, Harry, of Blue Hill, Me., and Richard, of Boulder, Colo., and his mother, Georgette, of West Hartford, Conn.
      