
       Bernard J. O'Keefe, co-founder and former chairman and chief executive of EG&G,Inc., manufacturers of high-technology equipment for the military and industries, died Thursday at his home in Wayland, Mass., after a brief illness. He was 69 years old.
        Bernard J. O'Keefe, co-founder and former chairman and chief executive of EG&G,Inc., manufacturers of high-technology equipment for the military and industries, died Thursday at his home in Wayland, Mass., after a brief illness. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. O'Keefe founded the corporation, which is based in Wellesley, Mass, in 1947. He was its chairman from 1972 to 1985 and chief executive from 1965 to 1983. He headed the National Association of Manufacturers in 1982 and 1983. He referred to himself as a ''card-carrying member of the military-industrial complex.'' Role in Making the Bomb
        Born in Providence, R.I., Mr. O'Keefe was trained as an engineer and was involved with nuclear weapons from their inception. In the Navy, in World War II, he was assigned to the team at Los Alamos, N.M., that designed the detonation system for the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. He received a Presidential citation for his work.
        After the war Mr. O'Keefe returned to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he had been a student in an advanced radar school. With a colleague, he formed a company to manufacture and market radiation detectors, followed by the founding of EG&G Inc.
        Mr. O'Keefe was active for many years in nuclear testing programs at Eniwetok, Bikini and the Nevada Test Site. He was a principal experimenter in 18 nuclear test programs, and in 1958 he took a leave of absence from his corporation to act as scientific commander for Operation Hardtack, a nuclear test program at Bikini atoll. Posts in 14 Companies
        He was also involved in local, state and national affairs and served as a director of 14 national and international companies, including the Bank of New England, the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company and the Intercontinental Energy Corporation.
        He was also the author of several books, including ''Shooting Ourselves in the Foot'' (1985), and a novel, ''Trapdoor'' (1988), which were published by Houghton Mifflin.
        He graduated from the Catholic University of America in 1941 with a degree in electrical engineering. He also attended graduate school at Bowdoin College before going on to M.I.T., where the Navy sent him for work on advanced weapons research as part of the Manhattan project after the outbreak of World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Teri Brock; four children from his earlier marriage to Madeline Healey O'Keefe, who died in 1986: a son, Tom of Lynnfield, Mass., and three daughters, Geri Cleary, also of Lynnfield, Kathleen Osborn of Sudbury, Mass., Carol Hamilton of Manhattan; a sister, Rosemary Campbell of Warwick, R.I., and six grandchildren.
      