
       James M. Collins, a former member of the House of Representatives from Texas and a Republican conservative who helped to break a Democratic grip on his state, died of complications of pulmonary fibrosis yesterday at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas. He was 73 years old and lived in Dallas.
        James M. Collins, a former member of the House of Representatives from Texas and a Republican conservative who helped to break a Democratic grip on his state, died of complications of pulmonary fibrosis yesterday at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas. He was 73 years old and lived in Dallas.
        A multimillionaire businessman, philanthropist and civic leader, Mr. Collins was first elected to Congress in 1968 in a special election to fill a vacancy created by the death of the Democratic incumbent. His success began a transition in which Dallas County and the Third Congressional District became a Republican stronghold.
        In his Congressional career, Mr. Collins opposed school busing to achieve integration and increases in government spending, except for weapons or for projects in and around Dallas. Accused in Scheme
        In 1972 a longtime aide who had been convicted of a salary kickback scheme involving members of the Congressman's staff, asserted that Mr. Collins had devised the scheme. Mr. Collins denied the allegations and was never charged.
        In 1982, he ended a 14-year career in the House when he gave up his seat to run unsuccessfully against Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the incumbent Democrat.
        Mr. Collins graduated from Southern Methodist University and earned M.B.A.'s from Northwestern University and Harvard University. In World War II he served with the Army Corps of Engineers, participating in the invasion of Normany. Built Major Company
        In 1954 he became president of an insurance company, Fidelity Union Life. By 1965, when he stepped down, he had transformed it into a major national company.
        He was also president of A.P.C. Industries, which he sold to the International Business Machines Corporation in 1982, as well as Consolidated Industries Inc. and International Industries Inc. He also had business interests in ranches and real estate in Texas and Oklahoma.
        Through two family foundations, he channeled millions of dollars in gifts to schools, sports teams and health clinics for the underprivileged, as well as to the Dallas Museum of Art, the Salvation Army and the Park Cities Baptist Church.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Michael, of Dallas; two daughters, Dorothy Weaver of Miami and Nancy Fisher of Dallas; a sister, Ruth Sharp Altshuler of Dallas, and nine grandchildren.
      