
       Maurice Seiderman, a makeup artist and inventor whose craftsmanship aged Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and whose inventions included a formula for soft contact lenses, died of heart disease Tuesday in Port Angeles, Wash. He was 82 years old and lived in Sequim, Wash.
        Maurice Seiderman, a makeup artist and inventor whose craftsmanship aged Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and whose inventions included a formula for soft contact lenses, died of heart disease Tuesday in Port Angeles, Wash. He was 82 years old and lived in Sequim, Wash.
        Mr. Seiderman began working in Hollywood in 1935 as the junior member of RKO's makeup department. Besides ''Citizen Kane,'' he worked on the films ''Gunga Din,'' ''The Hunchback of Notre Dame,'' ''The Magnificent Ambersons,'' ''Journey Into Fear'' and ''Macbeth.''
        Dick Smith, a makeup artist who won an Academy Award in 1984 for his work in ''Amadeus,'' said yesterday that Mr. Seiderman ''was best known for his revolutionary makeup for 'Citizen Kane' in which he aged Orson Welles and others with innovative techniques and materials.'' Formula for Soft Lenses
        ''Not only did Kane's hair thin, his face sag with jowls and bags made of Seiderman foam plastic, but Welles's body was reshaped with the plastic,'' Mr. Smith said. ''The final touch was his contact lenses that dimmed Welles's eyes.''
        An interest in plastics led Mr. Seiderman into medical research. In 1964, he became part of a medical team looking into the use of artificial materials in humans. He had made colored contact lenses for movie stars and in the 1970's he produced a formula for soft contact lenses. He also collaborated with doctors in implanting plastic lenses, artificial corneas, into human eyes.
        Mr. Seiderman came to New York from Russia in 1920 and worked as a scene painter and makeup artist for 14 years before going West. In his later life, as a hobby, he used a cat's whisker and crystals, for coloring, to paint semiabstract pictures on slides under a microscope of his own design.
        He is survived by his wife, Celita, and a brother, Nathan, of Los Angeles.
      