
       Donald Barthelme, a short story writer and novelist whose minimalist style placed him among the leading innovative writers of modern fiction, died of cancer yesterday in Houston at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan and Houston.
        Donald Barthelme, a short story writer and novelist whose minimalist style placed him among the leading innovative writers of modern fiction, died of cancer yesterday in Houston at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan and Houston.
        Mr. Barthelme had recently completed a new novel, ''The King,'' which will be published as an Edward Burlingame Book by Harper & Row in the spring of 1990. ''The King is Arthur,'' Mr. Burlingame said recently. ''It includes the members of his Round Table, and it takes place in England during World War II while Winston Churchill is Prime Minister. The book is illustrated by Barry Moser. It's pure Barthelme - wacky and wonderful.''
        Mr. Barthelme's short stories frequently appeared in The New Yorker before being collected into books. He won a National Book Award in 1972 for a children's book entitled ''The Slightly Irregular Fire Engine'' and the PEN/ Faulkner Award for fiction in 1982 for his ''Sixty Stories.'' He was a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, the Authors League of America, the Authors Guild and PEN.
        Mr. Barthelme once likened his style to that of collage. ''The principle of collage is the central principle of all art in the 20th century,'' the author said. 'Dealing With Not-Knowing'
        Rebutting criticism of himself and of other writers as being too difficult, Mr. Barthelme said: ''Art is not difficult because it wishes to be difficult, rather because it wishes to be art. However much the writer might long to straightforward, these virtues are no longer available to him. He discovers that in being simple, honest, straightforward, nothing much happens.''
        ''Writing is a process of dealing with not-knowing, a forcing of what and how,'' Mr. Barthelme said. ''We have all heard novelists testify to the fact that beginning a new book, they are utterly baffled as to how to proceed, what should be written and how it might be written, even though they've done a dozen. At best there is a slender intuition, not much greater than an itch. The not-knowing is not simple, because it's hedged about with prohibitions, roads that may not be taken. The more serious the artist, the more problems he takes into account, the more considerations limit his possible initiatives.''
        In public appearances and in print, Mr. Barthelme often defended what he termed ''the alleged post-modernists'' in literature. He placed himself in this category and included, among Americans, John Barth, John Hawkes, William Gass, Robert Coover and Thomas Pynchon. Among Europeans, he named Peter Handke, Thomas Bernhard and Italo Calvino.
        The writers he admired, he said, included Stephane Mallarme, Upton Sinclair, Lewis Carroll, Samuel Beckett and George Orwell. He especially respected Mallarme, he once told an interviewer, because the French poet ''shakes words loose from their attachments and bestows new meanings upon them, meanings which point not toward the external world, but toward the Absolute, acts of poetic intuition.'' Grew Up in Houston
        Mr. Barthelme was born in Philadelphia on April 7, 1931. He had a Roman Catholic upbringing in Houston, where his father was a professor of architectural design at the University of Houston. While studying at the university, he adopted an existentialist philosophy. After serving in the Armed Forces in Korea and Japan, he returned to Houston, where he worked as a reporter for The Houston Post. In 1961-62, he became the director of the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston.
        Mr. Barthelme moved to Manhattan in 1963. He lived in Greenwich Village with his fourth wife, the former Marion Knox, whom he married in 1978. Mr. Barthelme described New York City in the same terms as his own work, ''as a collage, as opposed to a tribal village in which all the huts are the same hut, duplicated. The point of collage is that things are stuck together to create a new reality.'' In 1974-75, he served as a Distinguished Visiting Professor of English at the City College of the City University of New York.
        His first novel, ''Snow White,'' took up virtually a whole issue of The New Yorker in 1967 and brought him national attention. His interpretation owed more to the Walt Disney film than to the Grimm story. It parodied the fairy tale with erotic touches. Some critics described the story as a surrealistic Snow White. In the story, Snow White shares a shower and an apartment with the seven dwarfs, who become respectable bourgeois entrepreneurs.
        When Mr. Barthelme received the National Book Award for his 1971 children's book, ''The Slightly Irregular Fire Engine,'' which he also illustrated, the jurors described the book as one ''of originality, wit and intellectual adventure, at once elegant and playful, and each rereading discovers fresh surprises and delights.'' Other Works Listed
        His books of stories included: ''Come Back, Dr. Caligari'' (1964); ''Unspeakable Practices, Unnatural Acts'' (1968); ''City Life'' (1970); ''Sadness'' (1972); ''Amateurs'' (1976); ''Great Days'' (1979), which was fashioned into an off-Broadway play in 1983; ''Sixty Stories'' (1981), and ''Overnight to Many Distant Cities'' (1983).
        His novels, apart from ''Snow White,'' included: ''The Dead Father'' (1975), and ''Paradise'' (1986). In addition to the children's book, he was author of a book of parodies, ''Guilty Pleasures'' (1974).
        The critic Alfred Kazin, in ''Bright Book of Life: American Novelists and Storytellers From Hemingway to Mailer,'' called Barthelme an ''antinovelist who operates by countermeasures only.''
        ''He is outside everything he writes in a way that a humorist like S. J. Perelman could never be,'' Mr. Kazin continued. ''He is under the terrible discipline that the system inflicts on those who are most fascinated with its relentlnessness.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Barthelme is survived by two daughters, Anne, of San Diego, Calif., and Katherine, of Houston; his parents, Donald Sr. and Helen Barthelme of Houston; a sister, Joan Barthelme Bugbee of Houston; and three brothers, Peter R., of Houston, and Frederick and Steven, both of Hattiesburg, Miss.
        Plans for a memorial service were incomplete last night.
      