
       Frank Thompson Jr., a former New Jersey Representative who was one of the most influential Democrats in Congress before the Abscam scandal ended his 26-year House career, died Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, two days after undergoing surgery for throat cancer there.
        Frank Thompson Jr., a former New Jersey Representative who was one of the most influential Democrats in Congress before the Abscam scandal ended his 26-year House career, died Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, two days after undergoing surgery for throat cancer there.
        Mr. Thompson would have been 71 years old Wednesday.
        In 1980, after 13 terms in which he built a reputation as a powerful advocate of liberal causes in the House of Representatives, Mr. Thompson was convicted of bribery and conspiracy charges in the Justice Department's Abscam investigation. He subsequently served two years of a three-year prison sentence.
        The undercover investigation, in which Federal agents posed as a rich Arab sheik and his assistants willing to bribe American public officials, rocked Washington. It led to the convictions of six other members of Congress who, like Mr. Thompson, had been videotaped meeting with the agents. Defeated Before Conviction
        A month before his conviction in a three-week trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, Mr. Thompson was defeated by a Republican challenger, Christopher H. Smith, whom he had easily defeated two years earlier. Political experts agreed that Mr. Thompson's indictment in the Abscam case was the major reason for his defeat.
        When the verdict was rendered, Mr. Thompson, a courtly and bespectacled white-haired man who had been known for his efforts on behalf of labor, education and the arts while representing his central New Jersey district, shook his head in disagreement with the jury. And through his subsequent unsuccessful attempts to appeal the conviction, and his imprisonment from 1983 to 1985, Mr. Thompson continued to maintain his innocence.
        Mr. Thompson was convicted of having joined another longtime House member, John M. Murphy of Staten Island, in a conspiracy in which they and others shared a total of $100,000 from the undercover agents for aid with immigration problems and other matters. A Liberal's Liberal
        For Mr. Thompson, the conviction was a plunge from long years of legislative accomplishment in which ''Thompy'' had gained ready re-election, elevation in 1976 to the powerful chairmanship of the House Administration Committee and a reputation as a liberal's liberal.
        He was key sponsor of the legislation that created the National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities and was the author of the bill that established the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.
        He had a leading role in the passage of the first law granting substantial Federal aid to local schools. He was a leader in the fight to repeal the section of the Taft-Hartley labor law that permits states to pass right-to-work laws that ban union-management agreements making union membership a condition of employment.
        Mr. Thompson was first elected to the House in 1954 after five years in the New Jersey Assembly. He directed the Democratic Party's voter registration drive for the 1960 Presidential election.
        Born on July 26, 1918, he grew up in the Trenton area, and attended Wake Forest College and Law School in North Carolina. He won the Bronze Star while serving in the United States Navy in World War II.
        In recent years he lived in Alexandria, Va., and was a consultant to labor unions and an insurance company.
        Mr. Thompson is survived by his wife, Evelina; a brother, Dawes, of Trenton; two daughters, Evelina Thompson Lyons of Crosswicks, N.J., and Anne Porter Henderson of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      