
       Hank Greenspun, the publisher of The Las Vegas Sun, who regularly voiced his strong opinions in a front-page column called ''Where I Stand,'' died of cancer Saturday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 79 years old.
        Hank Greenspun, the publisher of The Las Vegas Sun, who regularly voiced his strong opinions in a front-page column called ''Where I Stand,'' died of cancer Saturday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 79 years old.
        In a front-page obituary yesterday, The Sun called Mr. Greenspun ''one of the nation's few remaining publisher-crusaders'' and added, ''His death represents the end of an era.''
        In almost four decades of journalism, Mr. Greenspun took aim at a wide variety of targets, including Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and the Internal Revenue Service. In one column in the 1950's, he predicted that a victim of one of Senator McCarthy's denunciations would assassinate him and recommended that the Senator commit suicide first.
        And in his battles with the I.R.S., he told subscribers that he would provide them with a tax lawyer and a Sun reporter if they should be called for an audit. Friendship With Hughes
        Mr. Greenspun was also a friend of the billionaire Howard Hughes, who took sought refuge from publicity at the Desert Inn in Las Vegas. Mr. Hughes bought that hotel and several others, as well as hundreds of acres of hotel-casino property. He also bought a television station founded by Mr. Greenspun, KLAS-TV.
        Mr. Greenspun's dealings with Mr. Hughes gave him a small place in the history of the Watergate affair. J. Anthony Lukas, author of ''Nightmare: The Underside of the Nixon Years,'' wrote that President Richard M. Nixon's operatives planned a second burglary in addition to the famous one at the Democratic National Committee at the Watergate Hotel. The target was Mr. Greenspun's safe at The Las Vegas Sun, which was believed to contain memos about dealings between Mr. Hughes and Bebe Rebozo, the former President's close friend.
        ''To this day,'' Mr. Lukas wrote in 1987, ''nobody is sure whether such a burglary was ever attempted.''
        Herman M. Greenspun was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 27, 1909. He trained as a lawyer and served in the armed forces in World War II.
        He moved to Las Vegas in 1946, and in 1950 he bought a small union newspaper that he transformed into The Sun. In 1947, he was recruited by the Haganah, the Jewish underground movement, to smuggle guns into Palestine for those fighting to establish the State of Israel.
        He was convicted in a Federal court on charges of gun running - a crime he later said he was very proud of -but was later pardoned by President John F. Kennedy. The pardon enabled Mr. Greenspun to run for office in Nevada, but he lost a bid for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in 1962.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; a brother, David; a sister, Alice Goldberg; two sons, Brian and Danny; two daughters, Susan Fine and Janie Gale, and nine grandchildren, all of Las Vegas.
      