
       Martti Talvela, a Finnish bass who appeared regularly at the Metropolitan Opera and was the director-designate of the Finnish National Opera, died on Saturday after suffering a heart attack at his daughter's wedding on his farm in Juva, Finland. He was 54 years old.
        Martti Talvela, a Finnish bass who appeared regularly at the Metropolitan Opera and was the director-designate of the Finnish National Opera, died on Saturday after suffering a heart attack at his daughter's wedding on his farm in Juva, Finland. He was 54 years old.
        Mr. Talvela was most highly regarded in the Russian operatic repertory, and was considered a peerless interpreter of the title role in Modest Mussorgsky's ''Boris Godunov,'' which he sang many times at the Metropolitan Opera. He also enjoyed considerable success as Dosifei in the Met's production of Mussorgsky's ''Khovanshchina'' in recent seasons. But his repertory also encompassed the Wagner operas - he was noted for his portrayals of King Marke in ''Tristan und Isolde,'' Gurnemanz in ''Parsifal'' and Daland in ''The Flying Dutchman'' -as well as several Verdi and Mozart roles.
        His physical stature made him a natural for the mythical roles that were his specialty. He stood 6 feet 7 inches tall, and weighed close to 300 pounds. A Family of Singers
        The singer was born in Hiitola, Finland, on Feb. 4, 1935, the eighth of 10 children in a family of farmers and amateur singers. He earned his first singing fee at the age of 5, and became interested in opera after hearing a performance by the Russian bass Ivan Petrov, as Boris.
        In 1958, after completing his college studies in Savonlinna, and working for a few years as a schoolmaster, he entered the Lahti Academy of Music to pursue formal voice studies. In January 1960, he won first prize in a lieder competition in Helsinki, and went to Stockholm to continue his studies with Carl Martin Ohmann. The following year he made his debut, as Sparafucile in Verdi's ''Rigoletto,'' at the Swedish National Opera.
        Wieland Wagner, the composer's grandson and a noted stage director, heard one of Mr. Talvela's early performances and invited him to appear at Bayreuth in 1962. In 1963, he made his debut with the Deutsche Oper, in Berlin, and toured Japan with that company as Seneca in Monteverdi's ''Incoronazione di Poppea.'' By 1965, he had made debuts at La Scala, in Milan, and at the Vienna State Opera, and was performing regularly at Bayreuth and Salzburg.
        Mr. Talvela made his American debut with a recital at Hunter College in 1968, and with performances at the Metropolitan Opera that same year. From 1972 to 1980, he was the director of the Savonlinna Festival, where he worked steadfastly to promote the cause of opera in Finland, both by performing standard repertory works in Finnish, and by encouraging Finnish composers to write for him and for the festival. He was to become the director of the Finnish National Opera in 1992. 'The Boris of His Generation'
        Reviewing a Met production of ''Boris Godunov'' in 1987, Donal Henahan of The New York Times described Mr. Talvela as ''the Boris of his generation.''
        In discussing his work, Mr. Talvela often spoke in passionate, mystical terms.
        ''Singing is, for me, a combination of notes and visions,'' he told a New York Times interviewer. ''I must see pictures when I sing, and when I do not have those pictures in my mind, I am uncomfortable. Singing must be a passion, like the praying of the holy man, who is always thinking about how he can improve his prayers to make the message clearer. I am not a holy man - not at all - but I know how it is. In singing, everything must happen in the spirit, in the soul.''
        Mr. Talvela is survived by his wife, Anna; two daughters, Kirsi and Johanna, and a son, Tuomo, all of whom live in Finland.
      