
       James Chambers, a teacher and scholar of the French horn who was the principal hornist of the New York Philharmonic for 23 years, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Cranberry, N.J. He was 68 years old.
        James Chambers, a teacher and scholar of the French horn who was the principal hornist of the New York Philharmonic for 23 years, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Cranberry, N.J. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Chambers was the Philharmonic's personnel manager from 1969 until his retirement from the orchestra in 1986. He also taught at the Juilliard School for 42 years, and was on the school's faculty at the time of his death.
        William Schuman, the composer who is president emeritus of the Juilliard School and Lincoln Center, said Mr. Chambers was also a prominent horn-music scholar who brought a researcher's discipline and a performer's insights to the literature of the horn. The horn-music texts Mr. Chambers edited are used by musicians around the world. Performed With Other Orchestras
        Mr. Chambers's work on the French horn made him much in demand as a solo horn player, in recording sessions and as a guest artist with other orchestras. He played with the Longines Symphonette Radio Orchestra, as well as at many major music festivals.
        ''I can't believe my Jimmy is gone,'' said Leonard Bernstein, the laureate conductor of the Philharmonic. ''When first I knew him well, he was arguably the finest horn player in the world. He played solo horn on all my early Mahler recordings - to say nothing of Beethoven, Brahms and the rest - and always magnificently.''
        Mr. Chambers's international reputation was originally derived from his virtuosity as a soloist. ''He founded a style of horn playing based on a rich, dark sound and had a fearless approach,'' said Philip Myers, who is now the Philharmonic's principal hornist. A First Hornist at 17
        ''Working with him on a daily basis for nearly a decade enriched my life enormously,'' said Zubin Mehta, the music director of the Philharmonic. ''Not only did he set the highest standards of musicianship when he was first horn, but later as a personnel manager, his humanity and sense of fair play touched every one of his colleagues in the orchestra.''
        Mr. Chambers was born in Trenton, became first hornist of the Philadelphia Orchestra at the age of 17. and graduated from the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia in 1938. He was on the Curtis faculty from 1942 to 1946.
        In 1946, the year Mr. Chambers came to the Philharmonic, Mr. Schuman appointed him to the Juilliard faculty. ''The symphony orchestras of the United States are filled with Jimmy Chambers's students,'' Mr. Schuman said.
        ''His orchestral repertory class for wind instruments became one of the most sought-after instrumental experiences at Juilliard for over a generation,'' said Joseph W. Polisi, the president of Juilliard School.
        Mr. Chambers's wife, Marjorie, died in 1986. He is survived by four children, Robert, Carol, Patricia and Michael, and four grandchildren.
      