
       The Academy Award winning director Franklin James Schaffner, whose 1970 film ''Patton'' won seven Oscars including best picture, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 69 years old.
        The Academy Award winning director Franklin James Schaffner, whose 1970 film ''Patton'' won seven Oscars including best picture, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Schaffner, a past president of the Directors Guild of America, had a film career that spanned more than four decades with movies that were nominated for Academy Awards 28 times. He directed ''Papillon,'' ''Planet of the Apes,'' ''Nicholas and Alexandra,'' ''Islands in the Stream,'' and ''The Boys from Brazil.'' He had recently completed his last film, ''Welcome Home,'' for Columbia Pictures. His first film was ''The Stripper'' from the play ''A Loss of Roses'' by William Inge.
        During his acceptance speech at the 1971 Academy Awards ceremonies, Mr. Schaffner said he hoped the audience would understand ''Patton'' ''not only as a war picture but as a peace picture.'' The film also earned him a Directors Guild award.
        But Mr. Schaffner's many talents were not limited to motion pictures. He directed more than 150 live television plays in New York for CBS for programs like ''Studio One,'' ''Ford Theater'' and ''Playhouse 90.'' He won Emmy Awards for his directing on television in 1954, 1955 and 1962. Peabody Award Winner
        He directed public-affairs programs, including the series ''Person to Person'' for Edward R. Murrow and the documentary ''A Tour of the White House,'' with Jacqueline Kennedy as host, for which he received a trustees Emmy and the Peabody Award.
        Mr. Schaffner directed the original television broadcasts of the plays ''Twelve Angry Men,'' with Robert Cummings, Franchot Tone and Edward Arnold, and ''The Caine Mutiny Court Martial,'' with Lloyd Nolan and Barry Sullivan. He also directed the first six episodes of the ''The Defenders,'' an episodic dramatic series on television in the early 1960's.
        In 1960, Mr. Schaffner directed the successful Broadway production of ''Advise and Consent'' for which he received the Best Director recognition in the Variety Critics Poll.
        Mr. Schaffner was born to Protestant missionary parents in Tokyo in 1920. After his father died suddenly, Mr. Schaffner came to the United States at the age of 5, and grew up in Lancaster, Pa. He was graduated from Franklin & Marshall College where he majored in government and English. He later served on the college's board of trustees, and in 1977, the college established the Franklin J. Schaffner Film Library and gave him an honorary degree. Served in Burma and China
        The outbreak of World War II diverted Mr. Schaffner from plans to attend law school. He served four years as a lieutenant in the United States Navy Amphibious Forces in North Africa and Europe and with the Office for Strategic Services in India, Burma and China.
        When he returned to the United States after the war, Mr. Schaffner worked for a world peace organization which led to a job as an assistant director for the documentary film series ''The March of Time.''
        His experiences there led to a job as a director in the news and public affairs department of the new CBS Television news network. His early assignments included directing television coverage of the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1948, and of hockey, basketball, horse races and beauty pageants, along with public-service programs.
        Mr. Schaffner is survived by his wife, Jean; two daughters, Jenny, of Los Angeles and Kate Robinson of Orinda, Calif.; and two sisters, Isabelle R. Schaffner and Louise Armstrong, both of Washington.
        Funeral services will be private. -
      