
       L. Bancel La Farge, an architect, president of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects from 1958 to 1960 and a founding member of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, died Sunday at his home in Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa. He was 89 years old.
        L. Bancel La Farge, an architect, president of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects from 1958 to 1960 and a founding member of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, died Sunday at his home in Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa. He was 89 years old.
        Louis Bancel La Farge, a tall, cultivated man, specialized in designing homes, first in the Beaux Arts style and later in modified contemporary and English country manor styles. He designed residences in Charlestown, S.C., the Hamptons on Long Island, the Hudson Valley in New York and in the New Haven area. He also shaped the Caneel Bay resort in the Virgin Islands. A Grandson of the Painter
        Mr. La Farge, a grandson of John La Farge, the noted painter, was born in Boston and grew up in Lausanne, Switzerland, and Paris. He was a graduate of the Choate School, Harvard College and the Yale Architectural School.
        During World War II, he served on Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's general staff as chief of the monuments, fine arts and archives section. After the war, Major La Farge was decorated by the United States, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Czechoslovakia for supervising the return of art works looted by the Nazis and stored in more than 500 sites in American-occupied Germany.
        He was president of the Municipal Art Society of New York from 1954 to 1956, a director of the executive committee of the American Arbitration Association from 1961 to 1969, a member of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission from 1965 to 1970 and chairman of the Historic Districts Commission for Nantucket, Mass., from 1971 to 1976.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Margaret Hockaday; two sons, Timothy, of Atlanta, and Benjamin, of Barrytown, N.Y.; a daughter, Celestine La Farge Nicolas of the Netherlands, and five grandsons.
      