
       Janos Kadar, who rose to power in Hungary as the Soviet Army crushed the 1956 uprising and who gradually won a measure of acceptance by softening Communist dogma and presiding over a prosperity and tolerance unusual in Eastern Europe, died yesterday in Budapest. He was 77 years old.
        Janos Kadar, who rose to power in Hungary as the Soviet Army crushed the 1956 uprising and who gradually won a measure of acceptance by softening Communist dogma and presiding over a prosperity and tolerance unusual in Eastern Europe, died yesterday in Budapest. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Kadar was replaced as leader of the Hungarian Communist Party in May 1988, and his physical and mental health were said to have been failing for some time.
        The official Hungarian press agency said he was admitted to a hospital on Monday in critical condition with pneumonia and had been treated for acute breathing and circulation difficulties.
        Janos Kadar (pronounced YAH-nohsh KAH-dahr) was installed as party leader in November 1956, replacing Imre Nagy, who led the uprising against Soviet domination. Mr. Nagy was hanged in 1958, but he was finally given a hero's burial in Budapest last month. Dominated for 32 Years
        By then, Mr. Kadar, who had dominated the country for 32 years, was in eclipse, having been relegated to oblivion by his successor, Karoly Grosz. The Nagy ceremony itself seemed to symbolize the repudiation of Mr. Kadar.
        Mr. Kadar's career as a Communist spanned the turbulent evolution of Communist parties in Eastern Europe from prewar illegality, through underground activity in World War II, to their rise to power backed by the victorious Soviet Army.
        As the hatred of the 1950's gave way to grudging acceptance, Mr. Kadar developed what Nikita S. Khrushchev, the former Soviet leader, dubbed ''goulash Communism.'' And in pursuing a policy of national reconciliation, Mr. Kadar inverted a shibboleth of party orthodoxy, declaring, ''Those who are not against us are for us.''
        All along, too, Mr. Kadar's career reflected the grim and often deadly ironies of an era, of decades spent on either side of the prison walls with the torturers or those tortured. Led Anti-Nazi Underground
        As a teen-age mechanic, growing aware of social injustice, he embraced Communism, which was then outlawed, and was jailed for it. In World War II, his courage propelled him to party leadership in the anti-Nazi underground. Hungary was fighting alongside Nazi Germany, and most Eastern European party leaders were biding their time in Moscow.
        When Stalinism tightened its reign in Eastern Europe after the war, Mr. Kadar - a homegrown leader among returned exiles - ran the Interior Ministry. Thus, he commanded the secret police when many party comrades fell victim to persecution for perceived impurities in their faith.
        At that time, a Communist leader like Laszlo Rajk could be executed, after a show trial in 1949. Mr. Kadar and the accused had been close, but Mr. Kadar had his hand in the trial and co-signed the order of execution.
        In another purge, Mr. Kadar himself was sent back to prison for two years in 1951 by Matyas Rakosi, head of the Communist Party. He was reportedly tortured there by his former lieutenants, although he chose not to discuss this in later years. Display of Political Skill
        Mr. Kadar re-emerged with a burning desire to punish Mr. Rakosi, displaying the political skills he later showed in his years in power. At first relegated to the district level, he soon re-entered the inner circles to become a key figure in the intrigues that preceded the historic climax of 1956.
        This period was marked by Mr. Rakosi's fall, Mr. Kadar's full rehabilitation and the rebellion that returned Mr. Nagy to head the Government. The rush of events left Hungary in turmoil and brought on the violent Soviet suppression of the 1956 uprising.
        Mr. Nagy had served as Prime Minister from 1953 to 1955, when he was denounced as a Titoist. While in office, he pursued a ''new course'' designed to loosen central economic controls, a course Mr. Kadar quietly took up once the trauma of 1956 abated.
        Mr. Kadar, bristling with patriotism, had briefly joined forces with Mr. Nagy and helped to restore him to office. He abruptly reversed course when Mr. Nagy's coalition Government, reacting to the uprising that broke out in October 1956, proclaimed its neutrality and announced Hungary's withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact. Put in Charge by Moscow
        Moscow secretly put Mr. Kadar in charge of the country, and his Government promptly asked for Soviet troops to intervene and restore the status quo. Mr. Kadar's actions at this time were variously regarded as a betrayal of his country or a realistic judgment of Hungary's position vis-a-vis the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Nagy and others prominent in the uprising, unable to reach safety abroad, were hunted down. The trial and execution of Mr. Nagy and associates were announced in 1958. Mr. Nagy was buried in secret in a prison lot and a few years later secretly reburied in an unmarked grave. There his remains were interred until last month, when the party leadership yielded to demands for a decent burial.
        On June 16, in a public ceremony organized by the opposition, Mr. Nagy and four associates who were executed with him in 1958 were given a solemn funeral in Budapest's largest square, followed by a hero's burial.
        Mr. Kadar himself started Hungary in the direction of national reconciliation in 1962 with a drastic party purge. He sidelined former Stalinists whom he accused of having created the conditions for the bloodshed in the first place. By then, many Hungarians had overcome their hatred toward him to realize that their country's open defiance of the Soviet Union had been futile. Changes Introduced
        While in power, Mr. Kadar introduced economic and political changes that made Hungary among the most prosperous and tolerant countries in the Soviet bloc and prompted the Khrushchev remark about ''goulash Communism.''
        Mr. Kadar's Government quietly shelved Marxist orthodoxy to allow a measure of free enterprise. Moscow acquiesced in his actions because he remained outwardly loyal to the leaders in the Kremlin, who began to see some value in his chosen path.
        Mr. Kadar fostered relations with the West, Israel and the Roman Catholic Church. Most important, he achieved social consensus and a measure of popularity among the 10 million Hungarians, who relished their enhanced living standards and freedoms.
        But by the beginning of the 1980's, Mr. Kadar was increasingly perceived by economic experts and political scientists as a leader who was blocking badly needed changes in an atrophying economy rather than one who was fostering liberalization.
        Age and failing health, combined with domestic setbacks, caught up with Mr. Kadar, and younger, impatient leaders were rising through the ranks. Losing His Taste for Change
        A stagnant economy spelled hard times for people no longer used to them, and Mr. Kadar seemed to have lost his verve and taste for change. Ferment agitated the Soviet Union and spread in Eastern Europe, not sparing Hungary.
        Restlessness within the party and beyond increased after mid-1987, when Mr. Kadar installed Mr. Grosz, a party functionary with conservative credentials, as Prime Minister. Younger party officials demanded pragmatism and action. Mr. Grosz obliged.
        Against Mr. Kadar's resistance, he prepared for economic revival by whittling down state controls and subsidies and encouraging free-market principles. The Soviet Union, itself undergoing change under Mikhail S. Gorbachev, signaled approving interest and, after months of bitter infighting, the generational clash was resolved in May 1988 with a solid victory for Mr. Grosz.
        A national party conference that month voted Mr. Kadar and many of his staunch supporters into retirement. Mr. Kadar was shuffled into a new, figurehead post of party president. Taking the rostrum on the occasion, he missed his chance for a rousing valedictory, instead producing 80 minutes of rambling generalities.
        Two months ago Mr. Kadar was removed as party president and expelled from the Central Committee. The official radio gave as a reason his failing health, but party officials said his physical and mental health had deteriorated to such an extent that his appearances at Central Committee meetings had become an embarrassment. Born of Peasant Stock
        Janos Kadar was born on May 26, 1912, of peasant stock as Janos Czermanik.
        His birthplace was sometimes given as a village on the Yugoslav border, possibly in a Yugoslav corner of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Some references place his birth in Fiume, at the time Hungary's outlet to the Adriatic and today the Croatian port of Rijeka.
        The biographer William Shawcross said Mr. Kadar was the child of Borbala Czermanik, a Slovak peasant working as a maid in Fiume, and a Hungarian farmer's son doing his military service there. The father absconded, and Janos, reared by his mother, assumed the name Kadar as a nom de guerre while fighting in the underground.
        Mr. Kadar was married, but little else was known of his family life.
        A slight German accent in his speech was attributed to the mix of Swabian and Hungarian people among whom he spent his childhood. After a village-school education, he became a tool-maker's apprentice and also worked as a locksmith and street-car conductor. Matured by Guerrilla Life
        At the age of 19, he led an illegal Communist youth group. Although he had served time in jail for his activities before the war, it was the hard school of guerrilla life in World War II that matured him politically.
        He became deputy chief of the Budapest police in 1945 and was quickly rising in the party by 1948, when he took over the Interior Ministry. By all accounts, he showed no mercy toward those branded as enemies by the party.
        In a tense confrontation in 1956, still allied with Mr. Nagy, he amazed his colleagues by shouting at Ambassador Yuri V. Andropov, who later became the Soviet leader, ''I am a Hungarian, and I will fight your tanks with my bare hands if necessary!''
        After he took a second look at the realities, Hungarians did just that while he was brought back to Budapest, and to power, in a Soviet armored car.
      