
       William F. Tompkins, who as an Assistant Attorney General headed the Justice Department's new internal security division during the Eisenhower Administration, died of a heart attack Thursday at the Mid-Ocean Club in Bermuda, where he was vacationing. He was 76 years old and lived in Maplewood, N.J.
        William F. Tompkins, who as an Assistant Attorney General headed the Justice Department's new internal security division during the Eisenhower Administration, died of a heart attack Thursday at the Mid-Ocean Club in Bermuda, where he was vacationing. He was 76 years old and lived in Maplewood, N.J.
        Mr. Tompkins, who previously had prosecuted organized crime figures in New Jersey, was in charge of the internal security division, established to counter subversive activities, from 1954 to 1958. Among those he successfully prosecuted was Col. Rudolf Ivanovich Abel, Soviet master spy.
        In earlier work as an Assistant Attorney General, Mr. Tompkins built a reputation as a racket-buster. He obtained a denaturalization order and indictment against the mobster Albert Anastasia, who was jailed for income tax evasion.
        From 1953 to 1954, Mr. Tompkins was United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey. He was a partner in the Newark-based law firm of Tompkins, McGuire & Wachenfeld for many years and a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers in 1967.
        He was born in Newark, N.J., graduated from Wesleyan University, in Middletown, Conn., and from Rutgers University Law School, in Newark.
        An infantry lieutenant in the United States Army in Saigon during World War II, he later prosecuted war crimes charges in Singapore. Before his appointment as United States Attorney in New Jersey, he was a member of the law firm of Lum, Fairlie & Foster, in Newark, and served three terms as a Republican Assemblyman from Essex County.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Jane Bryant; a son, William F. Jr., of Convent Station, N.J., and a grandson.
      