
       Donald S. Voorhees, who as a Federal district judge in Seattle issued a major decision favoring Japanese-Americans who had been interned by the Government during World War II, died Friday at the Hospice Northwest in Seattle. He was 72 years old.
        Donald S. Voorhees, who as a Federal district judge in Seattle issued a major decision favoring Japanese-Americans who had been interned by the Government during World War II, died Friday at the Hospice Northwest in Seattle. He was 72 years old.
        Judge Voorhees had suffered a series of strokes after surgery for a brain tumor.
        Of his rulings in his 12 years on the Federal bench, none was considered more noteworthy than the 1986 decision in which he found that the Government improperly concealed evidence from the courts at a 1944 hearing on whether there was a military necessity to relocate Japanese-Americans from their homes in the Western states to internment camps.
        The ruling overturned the conviction of Gordon K. Hirabayashi, who had fought relocation, and was viewed by Japanese-Americans as a landmark vindication of their long-held belief that their civil rights were violated during the war. It was followed by Congress's decision to give $20,000 and an apology to each Japanese-American who had been forced into the camps. Rulings on Busing and Searches
        Judge Voorhees also issued a major ruling in a school desegregation case in 1979 when he overturned an anti-busing initiative approved by Washington State voters. That ruling, upheld by the Supreme Court, allowed the Seattle school district to carry out its desegregation plan. His ruling in another case barred county jails from conducting random strip searches of prisoners.
        Born in Leavenworth, Kan., he graduated from the University of Kansas and the Harvard Law School. He was appointed a Federal judge for the Western District of Washington in 1974 and retired in 1986, when he fell ill.
        Judge Voorhees served three years on the board of the Federal Judicial Center in Washington, D.C. He wrote a manual for judges, ''Recurring Problems in the Trial of Criminal Actions.'' In 1985, he received the Seattle-King County Bar Association Award for Distinguished Service. Last year, he was honored at the annual banquet of the Federal Bar Association.
        Surviving are his wife, Anne; five children, Stephen, David, John and Diane, all of the Seattle area, and Richard of Brooklyn; a brother, Gordon, of Leavenworth; a sister, Joan Garland of Brush, Colo., and three grandchildren.
      