
       Mel Blanc, the versatile, multi-voiced actor who breathed life into such cartoon characters as Bugs Bunny, Woody Woodpecker, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Tweety Pie, Sylvester and the Road Runner, died of heart disease and emphysema yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 years old.
        Mel Blanc, the versatile, multi-voiced actor who breathed life into such cartoon characters as Bugs Bunny, Woody Woodpecker, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Tweety Pie, Sylvester and the Road Runner, died of heart disease and emphysema yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 years old.
        He had been admitted to the hospital on May 19.
        In a career spanning six decades, Mr. Blanc helped develop nearly 400 characters and provided a rich mix of voices for some 3,000 animated cartoons. In the 1940's and 50's he supplied the voices for 90 percent of the Warner Brothers cartoon menagerie, and in the 60's he was a co-producer of ''The Bugs Bunny Show,'' an ABC-TV Saturday morning series that featured Looney Tunes characters in new adventures written for television.
        In the 1960's he also contributed to ''The Flintstones,'' the first animated situation comedy created for television and the first cartoon broadcast in prime time. For that series he supplied the voices for both Barney Rubble, the dull-witted neighbor of Fred and Wilma Flintstone, and Dino, the Flintstones' pet dinosaur.
        Mr. Blanc was still active as he approached 80, when he made new recordings of five of his classic characters for the innovative 1988 live-animation film ''Who Framed Roger Rabbit,'' rejuvenating Bugs, Daffy, Porky, Tweety Pie and Sylvester the cat. Played Three Instruments
        Melvin Jerome Blanc was born on May 30, 1908, in San Francisco, to Frederick and Eva Katz Blanc, managers of a women's clothing business. He attended elementary and high schools in Portland, Ore., and studied music, becoming proficient on the bass, violin and sousaphone.
        He married Estelle Rosenbaum in 1933 and, soon after, they won contracts to appear on a daily radio program. The sponsors could not afford to hire additional actors, so Mr. Blanc used his voice to create a repertory company.
        The couple then went to Los Angeles, where Mr. Blanc joined Leon Schlesinger Productions, an innovative cartoon workshop that eventually developed Warner Brothers' Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies.
        Mr. Blanc's first major character was Porky Pig, the shy stammerer. The second was Happy Rabbit, which he saved from oblivion by providing a new name, Bugs, from the nickname of the character's illustrator, Ben Hardaway. Mr. Blanc then developed a distinctively brash voice for the character and came up with Bugs's catchy cue: ''What's up, doc?'' Events Changed Bugs's Character
        Bugs's creators were very careful in shaping his personality. Events and other characters tormented him, bringing about a change in his naturally timid rabbit nature and pushing him to take the offensive. He became mischievous, but never mean.
        In an interview Mr. Blanc explained Bugs Bunny's charm this way: ''He's a little stinker. That's why people love him. He does what most people would like to do but don't have the guts to do.''
        The Blanc repertory company grew to include Tweety Pie, the devious canary known for the song ''I Tawt I Taw a Puddy Tat''; the canary's enemy, Sylvester, whose favorite oath was ''Sssssufferin' sssssuccotash!''; the scheming Daffy Duck; the speedy ''beep-beeping'' desert bird Road Runner; the amorous French skunk Pepe le Pew; the shifty-eyed Wile E. Coyote, and the hot-tempered Yosemite Sam.
        Mr. Blanc also created a dizzying range of sound effects. In the Jack Benny radio show he was Carmichael, the irascible polar bear who guarded the comedian's underground vault. He was also Mr. Benny's outspoken parrot; his violin teacher, Monsieur Le Blanc; his Mexican gardener, Sy, and even his troublesome Maxwell car.
        Other roles created by Mr. Blanc were the wistful postman on ''The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show'' and a range of characters on programs starring Abbott and Costello, Dagwood and Blondie, and Judy Canova and Al Pierce. Produced Commercials
        In the 1960's Mr. Blanc formed his own company to produce and market commercials and fillers for radio and television. These included an unconventional announcement for the American Cancer Society in which a man was tortured to death by being forced to smoke one cigarette after another.
        In 1976, the State of California hired Mr. Blanc to enlist his cartoon associates in producing 10 radio announcements to warn residents how to prepare for a major earthquake, how to survive one and what to do afterward.
        In one announcement Bugs asks, ''What do I do when the shaking stops?'' Daffy replies, ''Stay away from damaged structures and power lines and remember to stay calm.'' Had Two Hit Records
        Mr. Blanc maintained a lifelong interest in music, and composed a handful of songs. Two of them, ''I Tawt I Taw a Puddy Tat'' and ''The Woody Woodpecker Song,'' each sold more than two million records.
        Mr. Blanc and his wife lived for many years in Pacific Palisades, Calif., where Mr. Blanc was the honorary mayor.
        He had an insatiable curiosity about all kinds of sounds. ''When I was a kid,'' he said, ''I used to look at animals and wonder, how would that kitten sound if it could talk. I'd tighten up my throat and make a very small voice, not realizing I was rehearsing.''
        In 1985, he described his creative efforts thus: ''What we tried to do was amuse ourselves. We didn't make pictures for children. We didn't make pictures for adults. We made them for ourselves.''
        Mr. Blanc is survived by his wife and their son, Noel.
      