
       Laurence Olivier, hailed as one of the greatest classical stage actors of his time, died yesterday at his home near London. He was 82 years old.
        Laurence Olivier, hailed as one of the greatest classical stage actors of his time, died yesterday at his home near London. He was 82 years old.
        Lord Olivier died ''peacefully in his sleep,'' surrounded by friends and relatives, in Steyning, West Sussex, said his agent, Laurence Evans. He was hospitalized several times in the last year after a kidney operation. His last professional appearance was a cameo role in the 1988 movie ''War Requiem,'' based on the oratorio by Benjamin Britten. Virtuosity and Daring
        Lord Olivier was a performer of astonishing virtuosity and daring. If that were not enough to fill a career, he was also a movie star of the first magnitude, a film director whose Shakespearean adaptations are unmatched on the screen, a stage director with a breadth of accomplishment in contemporary as well as classic plays and the founder and first artistic director of the National Theater of Britain.
        Knighted in 1947, raised to life peerage in 1970, he was, in art as well as title, a princely lord of his profession. Although his achievements and influences were many and varied, he was primarily an actor, and in a six-decade career onstage and in films, his performances - as Henry V, Hamlet, Richard III, Oedipus, Othello, Archie Rice in ''The Entertainer,'' Heathcliff in ''Wuthering Heights'' and Maxim De Winter in ''Rebecca'' - won him artistic immortality.
        He played kings, villains and, occasionally, clowns, the most challenging roles in the classical repertory, and also some of the most popular romantic figures. And in the last decade of his life, he had still another, profitable career as a character actor in Hollywood movies.
        Though he retired from the stage in 1974 because of illness, he never stopped working as a serious actor. Paralleling his renewed Hollywood reknown, he acted on television - as Lord Marchmain in ''Brideshead Revisited,'' as the barrister in John Mortimer's ''Voyage Round My Father,'' as the artist Henry Breasley in John Fowles's ''Ebony Tower,'' and, for the second time in his career, as a thunderous ''King Lear.''
        Lord Olivier, Sir John Gielgud and the late Sir Ralph Richardson were ranked as the three most eminent knights of the English theater. All were rivals, and Sir Ralph remained one of Lord Olivier's closest friends and a frequent adviser.
        One could elevate Sir John for his poetic bearing and voice and Sir Ralph for his gift for eccentric characterizations, but neither they nor any of their contemporaries could match Lord Olivier in matters of boldness and bravery. Sir John admired the way Lord Olivier ''dashes with a part'' and ''wrings its neck.'' ''He doesn't act with the sort of caution and fear that some of the rest of us have,'' he said.
        Throughout his career, Lord Olivier was known for his feats of physical as well as emotional courage. In his film ''Hamlet,'' he leaped from a 15-foot platform to catch the conscience of Claudius. In Strindberg's ''Dance of Death,'' he fell to the floor in a faint with such conviction that audiences thought he had a stroke onstage.
        He was not often given to public introspection about the art of acting, but in his 1982 autobiography, ''Confessions of an Actor'' (Penguin; Simon & Schuster), he wrote that to be a successful actor one needed ''an equal trinity of contributing qualities: talent, luck and stamina.'' In conversation, he stressed that of the three, stamina, ''actual physical strength,'' was the most important of all. He could have added that it also took determination.
        Though in hindsight, Lord Olivier was accepted as a natural actor, to a large extent he willed himself to his position of greatness. He learned how to use his voice and body in the interest of his art, perfecting accents, experimenting with makeup and challenging himself in his choice of roles.
        But in films he came to be regarded as a quintessential romantic hero - his Heathcliff still makes hearts beat faster - even his looks were, to a certain extent, a tribute to the persuasiveness of his performance.
        ''He has never been a particularly handsome man,'' Sir Tyrone Guthrie wrote, ''but he has always been able, on the stage, to suggest extreme good looks.'' 'A Tragedian by Art'
        Not to be underestimated was his gift for comedy, as Sir Toby Belch in ''Twelfth Night'' and also in ''Richard III,'' in which he found the comedy beneath the tragedy. As the critic James Agate wrote, Lord Olivier was ''a comedian by instinct and a tragedian by art.'' And Sir Alec Guinness, known for his own comic talent, said, ''Olivier has made me laugh more as an actor'' - in eccentric comic parts - ''than anyone else.''
        In 1945, he combined the sublime and the ridiculous on a single bill: after his famous eye-gouging performance in ''Oedipus'' he offered a cameo as Mr. Puff in Sheridan's ''Critic,'' an evening commonly referred to as ''Oedipuff.''
        Although others would credit him for his honesty (Noel Coward emphasized the ''impeccable truth'' of his characterizations), he confessed that for him acting was a form of lying. Other actors spoke of their need to express themselves, but he said he was not conscious of any need other ''than to show off.''
        Onstage he could project supreme self-confidence, but in private he was tormented by doubt and guilt, both of which he traced back to his boyhood, which was the beginning of a life lived in the imagination.
        Laurence Kerr Olivier was born in Dorking, Surrey, on May 22, 1907. His mother, Agnes Crookenden Olivier, died when he was 12 years old. He and his older brother and sister were brought up by their father, Gerard Olivier, an Anglican clergyman, schoolmaster, strict disciplinarian and, in his son's words, ''a strangely opportune encourager.'' A Surprise Decision
        For reasons that always remained unfathomable to his son, when Laurence was a young teen-ager his father decided that he would not, as he had thought, follow his elder brother, Richard, to India, but that he would stay in England and become an actor. Lord Olivier often told the story as if it were a divine intervention; but even at that early age he was already an actor.
        He made his schoolboy debut at 9, playing Brutus in an abbreviated version of ''Julius Caesar'' (his brother played Caesar) at All Saints Choir School in London. In the audience were Sybil Thorndike and her husband, Lewis Casson. As Dame Sybil recalled: ''He had been onstage for only five minutes when we turned to each other and said: 'But this is an actor - absolutely an actor. Born to it.' ''
        Additional certification was given by his performance as Kate in ''The Taming of the Shrew,'' a school production later presented at Stratford-on-Avon. As one critic said, Kate was performed ''boldly and vigorously,'' ''with dark flashing eyes and a spiteful voice.'' Even at 14 and disguised as a woman, Olivier was marked by his boldness.
        Enrolling at Elsie Fogerty's Central School of Speech Training and Dramatic Art, he received a lesson in acting that was to last a lifetime. With False Noses
        Criticizing his performing as ''overgesticulative,'' Miss Fogerty suggested that he had one physical weakness, and she pointed to a place under his brow and over his nose. Not only did that provoke the young man to lift his head and improve his bearing, but it also made him use false noses in performance.
        As Coward analyzed: ''I cannot think of any other living actor who has used such quantities of spirit gum with such gleeful abandon. I believe that this rather excessive determination to be old before his time was the result of an integral shyness in his character.''
        The next year, he made his professional debut as a policeman in ''The Ghost Train'' at the Brighton Hippodrome, and in his first entrance he tripped over a door sill and sailed headlong across the stage into the footlights. As he recalled, he received the largest laugh in his career. As a young actor, he was known for his penchant for giggling onstage and for his ability to ''corpse'' other actors, to make them laugh in the middle of a performance.
        In 1926, he joined the Birmingham Repertory Company, performing roles that included, most notably, Tony Lumpkin in ''She Stoops to Conquer.'' He continued with the company for a London season. He played the lead in R. C. Sherriff's ''Journey's End'' when it was performed in a tryout, but gave it up to do ''Beau Geste.'' ''Journey's End'' was an enormous success; ''Beau Geste'' was a failure, the first of several, a streak that was broken when Coward persuaded him to play the thankless role of Victor Prynne in ''Private Lives.'' Jill Esmond, the first Mrs. Olivier, joined the company for the Broadway engagement. His Film Debut
        In 1929, he made his film debut in ''Murder for Sale,'' and in 1933 he was dismissed as Greta Garbo's leading man in ''Queen Cristina'' and replaced by John Gilbert. He did not make another film until ''As You Like It'' in 1936.
        Meanwhile, his theatrical activity increased. He and John Gielgud alternated roles as Romeo and Mercutio in ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Each had his fervid admirers. Playing the apothecary was the 21-year-old Alec Guinness. He admired Gielgud, but he had his doubts about Olivier: ''He seemed a bit cheap - striving after theatrical effects.''
        The next year, Guinness understudied Olivier as Hamlet at the Old Vic and was ''outraged at the gymnastic leaps and falls required by his example.'' Looking back, he realized that Olivier's approach ''laid the foundation for his becoming a truly great actor.''
        In a month at the Old Vic, Olivier played Hamlet, Sir Toby Belch and Henry V, followed by Macbeth and Iago to Ralph Richardson's Othello.
        Carried away by the Freudian interpretation that Iago was in love with Othello, and positive that Richardson would never entertain such a thought, in rehearsal without warning he threw his arms around Richardson and kissed him full on the lips. Richardson, recounted Lord Olivier, ''coolly disengaged himself from my embrace,'' ''and more in sorrow than in anger, murmured, 'There, there now, dear boy.' '' Love and Gossip
        Olivier and Vivien Leigh first acted together in the film ''Fire Over England'' (1936). Each was married, Miss Leigh to Leigh Holman, Olivier to Miss Esmond. The romance became international gossip as they both pursued careers as glamorous stars in films. For each, 1939 was a life-changing year. Miss Leigh won an Academy Award as Scarlett O'Hara in ''Gone With the Wind''; Olivier acted in ''Wuthering Heights'' and the next year in ''Rebecca'' and ''Pride and Prejudice.''
        After Olivier's divorce in 1940, he and Miss Leigh began a marriage that endured for 20 years despite conflicts and Miss Leigh's eventual mental illness.
        Next came ''Pride and Prejudice'' with Greer Garson and ''That Hamilton Woman,'' his most memorable performance with Miss Leigh, as Lord Nelson opposite her Lady Hamilton.
        In 1944, he returned to the Old Vic, as a co-director with Richardson and John Burrell. Among his first roles was Richard III, which he dated as the turning point in his career as an actor, the first time that his peers, the audience, the critics and the actor himself all admired him in a single role.
        That turned out to be a banner season, with approval for Olivier in three areas - as an actor in ''Richard III,'' as the director, producer and star of the film ''Henry V'' and as the director of the London production of Thornton Wilder's ''Skin of Our Teeth'' (starring Miss Leigh).
        His film ''Henry V'' (a patriotic salute to English heroism) began his trilogy of Shakespearean cinematic masterpieces, completed by ''Hamlet'' and ''Richard III,'' all directed by and starring Olivier in the title role. ''Hamlet'' won two Academy Awards - as best film and for Olivier as best actor. In his lifetime, he won three Emmy awards for his television acting, and in 1978 he was given an honorary Academy Award for career achievement in films. Alas, No Macbeth
        One major disappointment was his inability to gather financing to film ''Macbeth.'' Later, at the National Theater, he was able to bring about the filming of his ''Othello'' and ''The Merchant of Venice,'' but much of his important acting was consigned to memory rather than being recorded for posterity. About a career with many heights, he would eventually say, ''Directing movies was the most pleasurable thing in my life.''
        He and Miss Leigh continued working together in ''Antony and Cleopatra'' and ''Caesar and Cleopatra'' and in Terence Rattigan's ''Sleeping Prince.'' In the movie version of the Rattigan play, ''The Prince and the Showgirl,'' directed by Olivier, Marilyn Monroe played Miss Leigh's role.
        Both Olivier and Miss Leigh appeared in Peter Brook's production of ''Titus Andronicus,'' and Olivier's titanic performance provoked Kenneth Tynan to proclaim that it ''ushers us into the presence of one who is, pound for pound, the greatest actor alive.''
        For all of his success, Olivier felt a compulsion to break new ground, which he did, resoundingly, in John Osborne's ''Entertainer.'' His director, Tony Richardson, said that Olivier's performance as the second-rate vaudevillian Archie Rice ''summed up the cynicism, the seediness, the moral compromises of the late 50's and the early 60's.''
        ''The Entertainer'' also signified the end of his marriage with Miss Leigh and the beginning of his relationship with Joan Plowright, who was cast in a small role in the Osborne play and later became a major English actress.
        In 1961, soon after he and Miss Leigh were divorced, Olivier married Miss Plowright. Both were starring on Broadway, Olivier in Jean Anouilh's ''Beckett,'' Miss Plowright in Shelagh Delaney's ''Taste of Honey.'' Led National Theater
        His leadership at the Old Vic and his continuing role as an actor and manager in the classic British tradition made him a natural to be named the first artistic director of the National Theater. In his first season there in 1963, he directed Peter O'Toole as Hamlet (a failure) and played Astrov in a revival of his production of ''Uncle Vanya'' (a great success).
        At the prodding of Mr. Tynan, whom he named literary adviser, he played Othello and later Shylock. It was with ''The Master Builder'' in 1964 that he was suddenly overcome with stage fright. As he later recalled: ''It pursued me for five years and became a monster of a nightmare. The only thing to do was to wear it out.''
        When he resigned as director, he was replaced by Peter Hall. One of his regrets was the cancellation of his proposed production of ''Guys and Dolls,'' in which he would have played Nathan Detroit. He often had an affinity for American roles, and played James Tyrone in ''Long Day's Journey into Night'' on stage and television and Big Daddy in ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' on television. He also played the automobile tycoon in the 1978 movie ''The Betsy.''
        Concluding his relationship with the National, he acted in Trevor Griffiths's ''Party.'' Lord Olivier was to give his last public performance in that play on March 21, 1974. Later that year, he was stricken with dermatomyositis, a muscle-crippling disease, among a series of illnesses that plagued him. White House Honors
        Beginning with ''Sleuth,'' he began expanding his movie career. Unable to return to the stage, he devoted himself to movies and television.
        Among his later films are ''The 7 Percent Solution,'' ''Marathon Man,'' ''The Boys From Brazil,'' ''A Little Romance,'' ''Inchon'' (in which he played Gen. Douglas MacArthur), ''Clash of the Titans'' (in which he played Zeus) and, in 1985, ''Wild Geese II,'' his last major film role.
        Few of those films advanced his career, but they won him new fans and gave him a steady income to support his family. In addition to a son, Tarquin, by his first marriage, he had three children with Miss Plowright: Richard, Tamsin and Julie-Kate, all of whom have careers in the theater.
        In April 1983, he was honored at the annual benefit of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, and the next day he was guest of honor at the White House for a dinner and a private screening of his television movie ''King Lear.''
        ''Sir Laurence Olivier delighted millions with his unmatched excellence on the stage and screen,'' former President Ronald Reagan said yesterday in a statement. ''He was an actor of immense talent, precision and a deep and enduring dedication to his craft.''
        Though accepting the valedictory aspect of his ''Lear,'' Lord Olivier was determined that it would not be a farewell performance. Afterward, he acted with his fellow knights, Sir John and Sir Ralph, in ''Wagner,'' a movie starring Richard Burton as the composer. In 1986, he was featured - in the form of a holographic image projected in the theater - in the musical ''Time.''
        After publishing his autobiography, in 1986 he wrote ''On Acting'' (Simon & Schuster), a book that described step by step how he created some of his finest roles.
        After his 80th birthday, he said, ''I don't feel quite as old as I ought to.'' He attended a birthday celebration in the Olivier Theater at the National Theater. Although he never revoked his retirement from the stage, even in his 80's he was still eager to work in movies and in television films.
        Every new prospect excited him. Olivier took it as an opportunity to experiment with a new accent, a new nose or a new approach. As he said, ''When anyone is frankly in the business of showing off - of self-presentation -with each appearance, you are bound to take a leap in the dark.'' Lord Olivier's historic career was filled with magnificent leaps.
        He is survived by his wife; two sons, Tarquin and Richard, and two daughters, Tamsin and Julie-Kate.
      