
       William S. Maxwell, a career Navy officer who led a campaign against air pollution in New York after retiring as a rear admiral, died of a heart ailment on Monday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 89 years old and lived in the Midwood neighborhood.
        William S. Maxwell, a career Navy officer who led a campaign against air pollution in New York after retiring as a rear admiral, died of a heart ailment on Monday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 89 years old and lived in the Midwood neighborhood.
        Admiral Maxwell was deputy director of the city's bureau of smoke control from its inception in 1950 until 1952, when the bureau was superseded in a move many saw as a means of easing him out of office because of his aggressive pursuit of polluters, including municipal agencies.
        In the brief life of the smoke control bureau, few New Yorkers could name its chief, William D. Christy. But many knew the admiral for his often flamboyant methods of pursuing polluters.
        Mr. Christy and Admiral Maxwell clashed repeatedly over Admiral Maxwell's zeal to battle all who fouled the air. He mounted land, sea and air patrols to detect excess smoke from incinerators and stacks, and he took the Consolidated Edison Company to court and forced it to spend $3.74 million to modernize generators.
        When the City Council and Board of Estimate acted in 1952 to create the Department of Air Pollution Control, which was headed by an industrial-safety expert, Dr. Leonard Greenburg, the admiral's supporters succeeded in obtaining him the No. 2 post in the department.
        In 1955 Admiral Maxwell became chairman of the Board of Standards and Appeals in the State Labor Department.
        Admiral Maxwell, a native of Warsaw, came here as a teen-ager and soon enlisted in the Navy, where he rose from apprentice seaman to rear admiral before his retirement in 1950. Although he did not have an engineering degree, he was named Power Engineer of the Year in 1955 by the New York area chapters of the National Association of Power Engineers.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Ethel Stoudt; 2 sons, William Jr., of Los Angeles and Robert, of Long Beach, Calif.; a daughter, Ethel Colleen Barros of Houston, and 11 grandchildren.
      