
       Sidney Hook, a major American philosopher who wrote many books on Marxism, public policy and education, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Stanford University Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 86 years old and lived on the university campus.
        Sidney Hook, a major American philosopher who wrote many books on Marxism, public policy and education, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Stanford University Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 86 years old and lived on the university campus.
        Professor Hook had been a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford since 1973. Through most of his academic career he was associated with New York University, where he began teaching in 1927 and was chairman of the philosophy department for 35 years until he retired in 1969.
        Dr. Hook was for six decades a vigorous participant in many of the principal intellectual and political debates of this century. He was a thinker and a teacher of philosophy who did not hesitate to enter into the fray of political debate and conflict.
        He was best known for his consistent anti-Communist stance and his vigorous defense of political and academic freedom. His critique of Stalinism in the 1930's was one of the first against the Soviet Union by a major figure in leftist intellectual circles. Advocate of Strong Defense
        Dr. Hook was a guiding spirit in organizations of intellectuals whose purpose was to combat what they saw as the threat of totalitarianism. He helped to organize the Congress for Cultural Freedom in 1950 to counter what the group considered to be Communist-led intellectual fronts.
        An advocate of a strong military, he debated Albert Einstein and Bertrand Russell on the question of disarmament. While fervently anti-Communist, he opposed Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's activities in the 1950's, terming the Senator ''a heavy liability to the friends of American democracy and international freedom.''
        Through dozens of books and hundreds of articles, and in the course on the philosophy of democracy that he taught at New York University for decades, Dr. Hook had a profound influence on the thinking of several generations of American teachers, philosophers and political figures.
        In his autobiography, ''Out of Step: An Unquiet Life in the 20th Century,'' published in 1987 by Harper and Row, he provided an illuminating account of his friends and foes as well as his many philosophical battles.
        Appraising the book, John Gross wrote in The New York Times that ''even those who accept his general view of the world are likely to quarrel with some of his specific conclusions.'' But Mr. Gross concluded, ''It is a fearless book, which gets its priorities right, and one that nobody interested in the ideological battlegrounds of the 20th century should disregard.''
        In later years, Professor Hook's passionate anti-Communism led many polititical commentators to label him a neoconservative. He angrily rejected the label, variously terming himself ''a social democrat'' and ''a Cold War liberal.''
        Dr. Hook was a rigorous thinker and writer whose characteristic style was to state a point of view and then support it with an array of tightly woven arguments. His major books were ''Toward the Understanding of Karl Marx'' (1933), ''From Hegel to Marx'' (1936), ''The Hero in History'' (1943) and ''Pragmatism and the Tragic Sense of Life'' (1974). An Outspoken Secularist
        Dr. Hook's philosophy was based on the three pillars of pragmatism, secularism and rationalism. A student of the pragmatist philosopher John Dewey at Columbia University, Dr. Hook never tired of saying that there were no absolutes. He believed that all ideas had to be tested against the reality of experience.
        He was an outspoken secularist who maintained that people must find meaning in a world without a divine presence to impose meaning on it. And he was a supreme rationalist; he believed fervently that proper behavior and correct opinions could emerge only by an examination of problems guided entirely by reason, not by emotion or religious beliefs.
        He called himself a secular humanist, defining the term in a 1982 interview as ''the view that morals are autonomous of religious belief, that they are relevant to truths about nature and human nature, truths that rest on scientific evidence.''
        For Dr. Hook, even freedom had to be subjected to reason and experience, and not taken as an absolute. He maintained that for one person to insist on his absolute freedom meant depriving someone else of some of his freedom. 'The Greatest Enemy'
        ''It is the spirit of absolutism that is the greatest enemy of a liberal civilization,'' Dr. Hook wrote in 1964. ''It can be curbed only by the pragmatic temper that tests all principles by their consequences for the quality of human experience.''
        Dr. Hook was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 20, 1902, and was reared in a slum in the Williamsburg section. After graduating in 1919 from Boys High School in Brooklyn, he went to City College, graduating in 1923, and then to Columbia University, where he became a disciple of Dewey and earned a master's degree in 1926 and a Ph.D. a year later.
        Like many other young intellectuals of his generation, Dr. Hook was attracted by the Bolshevik Revolution in the Soviet Union and by Marxist writings. These interests reached a culmination with his publication in 1933 of ''Toward the Understanding of Karl Marx: A Revolutionary Interpretation.''
        Dr. Hook shocked orthodox Marxists, with whom he had earlier been close, by contending in the book that there was a crucial difference between what he called ''Marx and Marxism.'' He maintained that there was a moral and intellectual gulf between what he saw as the humanistic ideals of Marx himself and the Communist orthodoxy that had developed in the Soviet Union. Retired in 1969
        ''Orthodoxy,'' Dr. Hook wrote, ''is not only fatal to honest thinking; it invited the abandonment of the revolutionary standpoint which was central to Marx's life and thought.''
        Dr. Hook joined the philosophy department at New York University as an instructor in 1927, became chairman seven years later and remained in that post until his retirement in 1969. While teaching at the university, Dr. Hook wrote hundreds of books and articles. He became an academic philosopher fully engaged in the political debates of his era.
        Professor Hook's most passionate interest was what he viewed as the evils of totalitarianism. After supporting the Communist Party candidate for President in the election of 1932, he broke entirely with the party and with Stalin by the mid-1930's.
        In 1950, Dr. Hook joined forces with the American writer James T. Farrell and prominent European intellectuals like Raymond Aron in France to create the Congress for Cultural Freedom with the goal of countering what its founders saw as cultural groups financed and controlled by Communist Parties.
        It was later disclosed that the group had been partly financed by the Central Intelligence Agency, though there was never any suggestion that its policies were not entirely independent. Criticized by New Left
        In the 1960's, Dr. Hook was criticized by the New Left for his positions on the Vietnam War, racial quotas and academic freedom.
        He maintained during the American war effort in Indochina that, while a withdrawal of American forces was desirable, it should come only in conjuction with a similar action by the North Vietnamese.
        Professor Hook criticized quotas in university admissions designed to redress racial imbalances, calling them perversions of the concept of equality of opportunity. And, while he debated publicly with Bertrand Russell, Dr. Hook criticized American universities for refusing to allow Russell to teach in this country because of his political views.
        He received many honorary degrees and other awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1985.
        Professor Hook, in concluding his entry in the 1988-89 ''Who's Who in America,'' offered this l'envoi:
        ''Survival is not the be-all and end-all of a life worthy of man. Those who say that life is worth living at any cost have already written for themselves an epitaph of infamy, for there is no cause and no person they will not betray to stay alive. Man's vocation should be the use of the arts of intelligence in behalf of human freedom.''
        Surviving are his wife, the former Ann Zinkin; a son by a previous marriage, John Bertrand Hook of San Francisco; a second son, Ernest Benjamin Hook, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Susan Ann Goulian of La Jolla, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      