
       Argentina's new Economy Minister, Miguel Roig, died of a heart attack today, less than a week after taking on the task of restoring Argentina's crumbling economy. He was 68 years old.
        Argentina's new Economy Minister, Miguel Roig, died of a heart attack today, less than a week after taking on the task of restoring Argentina's crumbling economy. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Roig died in a car while traveling from the French Embassy to the Economy Ministry. His death was announced by Eduardo Menem, the provisional president of the Senate.
        His first job on taking office was to announce an austerity program in an attempt to rein in inflation, which is raging at 200 percent a month.
        Mr. Roig, who had spent most of his career in business rather than politics, was appointed by President Carlos Saul Menem to attack on the country's economic crisis.
        Mr. Roig, a chain-smoker and former chief executive of the Argentine multinational corporation Bunge & Born, had been negotiating with leading businessmen on a pact to hold down prices, which he had forecast would triple during July. He died shortly after attending a French Embassy party for the bicentennial of the storming of the Bastille, officials said. Currency Plunges
        As news of his death spread through Buenos Aires, Argentina's currency, the austral, plummeted on the black market to 755 per dollar, from 675 on this morning.
        On Sunday, in a nationally televised address, Mr. Roig announced a severe adjustment plan, including increases of up to 640 percent in public-services charges and a 54 percent devaluation of the austral.
        He also announced plans for tax revisions and the sale of parts of Argentina's debt-ridden state-owned companies.
        His appointment to President Menem's Cabinet was applauded in Argentine and foreign business and finance circles. It was widely interpreted as a sign that figures in private enterprise would work with the Peronists to help rebuild the economy.
        Born on June 25, 1921, in Buenos Aires, Mr. Roig obtained a degree in civil engineering at the National University of Buenos Aires.
        His only previous experience in government was a brief period as adviser to the Public Works Ministry during the presidency of Raul Alfonsin, Mr. Menem's predecessor, preparing a report on how to increase efficiency at the national water works company.
        There was no immediate announcement on who would succeed Mr. Roig. ''Maybe everything will change, but then maybe nothing will change,'' his deputy, Economic Coordination Secretary Orlando Ferreres, told reporters.
      