
       Nesuhi Ertegun, who helped make Atlantic Records an important label for rhythm and blues and jazz, died yesterday from complications following cancer surgery at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan, Katonah, N.Y., and Biot, France.
        Nesuhi Ertegun, who helped make Atlantic Records an important label for rhythm and blues and jazz, died yesterday from complications following cancer surgery at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan, Katonah, N.Y., and Biot, France.
        Mr. Ertegun produced the first successful records of many of America's greatest jazz musicians, including John Coltrane, Charles Mingus, Ornette Coleman and the Modern Jazz Quartet. He also signed Roberta Flack to Atlantic Records, where he was a partner with his brother, Ahmet, who founded the company in 1947.
        In 1971, four years after Warner Communications Inc. acquired Atlantic, Mr. Ertegun created a Warner's subsidiary, WEA International, a network of record companies with sales ''in excess of $1 billion,'' said Steven J. Ross, Warner's chairman.
        ''He attracted the top people because he cared so much about music and musicians,'' Mr. Ross said in a telephone interview. ''Musicians were enormously responsive to him because he realized that music was a universal language.'' Ray Charles and Bobby Darin
        In Atlantic's early days, Mr. Ertegun produced hit albums by Ray Charles and Bobby Darin. In the 1950's he introduced a wider audience to the rhythm and blues of The Drifters and LaVern Baker.
        Mr. Ertegun also had a taste for sophisticated cabaret music, and produced albums by Bobby Short.
        His love of jazz dated to the 1940's, when he moved to Los Angeles and established a record shop and a recording company, Jazz Man, specializing in early New Orleans music. He released records by Jelly Roll Morton, Jimmy Noone and Kid Ory. He also taught a course on jazz at the University of California at Los Angeles and edited a record magazine.
        When Mr. Ertegun joined his brother in New York, ''he came to do two things,'' said Jerry Wexler, another Atlantic partner, ''oversee development of long-playing records, in which we were really lagging behind, and to develop a jazz roster.''
        ''He signed Ornette Coleman, Herbie Mann, Coltrane,'' Mr. Wexler said. ''In many cases, these were their initial recordings.''
        Mr. Ertegun's creation, WEA International, became the international distributor for all music on the Warner Brothers, Atlantic, Elektra, Geffen and MCA labels. He was the company's chairman and chief executive from 1971 to 1987. He then started a new label, East-West Records, specializing in jazz. Battled Record Pirates
        Mr. Ertegun was the first president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which presents the Grammy awards. For the last eight years he was chairman of the International Federation of Phonographic Industries, which represents all recording companies in copyrighting. During that time he spearheaded a drive to stop the piracy of records, tapes and sheet music, particularly in Southeast Asia, Turkey and Korea.
        Elegant and dapper, Mr. Ertegun spoke several languages, all of them quietly. He was a reticent person in a flamboyant industry, and had two passions outside music - soccer and art.
        He founded the New York Cosmos Soccer Club in 1971 and brought some of the game's best players to New York. ''He was an absolutely delightful person - except during soccer games,'' said Henry A. Kissinger, a longtime friend. ''He was a real soccer maniac.''
        Mr. Kissinger said Mr. Ertegun was invaluable in advising him during his successful negotiations to bring the 1994 World Cup soccer championship to the United States.
        Early in his life Mr. Ertegun began collecting art, his brother said. His substantial collection of mostly Surrealist works includes paintings by Max Ernst, Magritte, Dali, Bacon and Arp. He also had a large collection of books, many inscribed by authors in the Dada movement.
        Born in Istanbul, he followed his family to Washington in 1939, where his father, M. Munir Ertegun, was the Turkish Ambassador. He attended the Sorbonne and the American University.
        Mr. Ertegun was a member of the board of the T. J. Martell Foundation, which provides money for cancer research, and the National Academy of the Recording Arts and Sciences. He was also a member of the American Turkish Society.
        Besides his brother, he is survived by his wife, Selma; a daughter, Leyla, and a son, Rustem, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Selma Goksel, of Istanbul.
      