
       Soviet radars may see it as a blip no bigger than a bird, but to the wondering human eye it resembles a gigantic black bat. The B-2 bomber's two-hour maiden flight yesterday establishes the improbable fact that it flies. But it still falls far short of proving that the plane is worth its extraordinary cost of $530 million a copy.
        Soviet radars may see it as a blip no bigger than a bird, but to the wondering human eye it resembles a gigantic black bat. The B-2 bomber's two-hour maiden flight yesterday establishes the improbable fact that it flies. But it still falls far short of proving that the plane is worth its extraordinary cost of $530 million a copy.
        The B-2 embodies many new technologies for evading enemy radar and keeping tailless planes stable. It may prove to be the revolutionary advance its proponents claim. But the Air Force has failed to describe a clear and convincing mission for the plane, which leaves Congress wondering why it should shell out $70 billion when it has just spent $28 billion for a fleet of B-1's.
        Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney tried to assuage Congressional sticker shock by suggesting that the B-2 could perform conventional as well as nuclear missions, like the bombing raid on Libya. But as Congressmen asked, what sense does it make to send a $500 million bomber against a $5 million bridge?
        The B-2's most useful strategic role is probably to hunt down Soviet mobile missiles, which cannot easily be targeted by ICBM's. But what if mobile missiles should be banned by treaty? The bomber would then be deprived of a principal rationale.
        Manned bombers will long remain a vital component of America's strategic nuclear deterrent. But the Air Force already possesses a capable and continuously renovated armada of B-52's, recently equipped with cruise missiles that can be launched from outside the Soviet Union. In addition, it now has the fleet of B-1's.
        President Carter's 1980 decision to cancel the B-1 and wait until the B-2 became available looks better and better. The B-1, which Ronald Reagan resurrected, arrived too late to close any window of vulnerability between the B-52 and B-2, and it is still beset with severe problems, including an electronic jamming system that may be beyond remedy. If the money sunk into the B-1 should mean there is not enough left for the B-2, the Air Force will almost certainly have committed the colossal folly of having built the wrong bomber.
        The question of whether the B-2 is to be depends only in part on its flight tests. With increasingly tight defense budgets, the issue is what else must be given up to make room for the B-2. Mr. Cheney will have to spell that out clearly to have even a chance of fulfilling his desire to build the most expensive plane in history.
      