
       Joseph A. Pechman, a leading scholar of tax policy and the director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution for more than 20 years, died Saturday after suffering a heart attack while playing tennis in Potomac, Md. He was 71 years old and lived in Bethesda.
        Joseph A. Pechman, a leading scholar of tax policy and the director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution for more than 20 years, died Saturday after suffering a heart attack while playing tennis in Potomac, Md. He was 71 years old and lived in Bethesda.
        Mr. Pechman was a senior fellow emeritus at Brookings and the president of the American Economic Association at the time of his death. He was the author of half a dozen books on the United States tax code and also wrote many articles on the topic for newspapers and journals.
        Mr. Pechman's book, ''Federal Tax Policy,'' which was revised in 1987 and issued in its fifth edition, is the standard reference work on the United States tax system.
        He was a lifelong proponent of progressive taxation, believing that it is fairer to tax people at different rates, based on their income levels. Under that system, people with higher incomes pay a larger proportion of their money in taxes than do people with lower incomes. 'Intellectual Father' of Tax Law
        For four decades after World War II, Mr. Pechman led the intellectual battle for changing the national income tax system. In articles, books, lectures and Congressional testimony, he argued forcefully for a tax system in which virtually all income would be taxable. With no loopholes or favored treatment, such a system would make it possible to have much lower tax rates, he said. His aim was to make the tax system both more efficient and more equitable. These ideas were incorporated into the Federal income tax through the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which eliminated a large number of loopholes and cut tax rates sharply.
        ''He was the intellectual father of the 1986 Tax Reform Act,'' said Charles L. Schultze, the director of the economic studies program at Brookings.
        Mr. Pechman served on the tax staff of the Treasury Department in the late 1940's and was a member of the staff of the President's Council of Economic Advisers from 1954 to 1956. He was also a consultant to the Council of Economic Advisers and the United States Treasury Department from 1961 to 1968.
        But most of his influence on policy was exerted from positions in institutions outside the Government. From 1956 to 1960 he was with the Committee for Economic Development, a research and policy group of business and educational leaders. He then became the director of economic studies for the Brookings Institution, a Washington research group.
        Together with his close friend, Walter W. Heller, who served as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, Mr. Pechman conceived the idea of Federal revenue sharing with state and local governments.
        Although President Johnson did not support the idea, it was enacted soon after President Richard M. Nixon took office. But it was ended in the Reagan Administration. Expanded Research at Brookings
        Mr. Pechman greatly expanded the scope and depth of the economic research at Brookings. In the 1960's and 1970's, he directed a large-scale study of Government finance, which resulted in a flow of books and other works on nearly all aspects of Federal tax and budgetary issues. But his range of interests extended far beyond public finance. He enlisted economists in diverse fields from universities throughout the country in studies at Brookings.
        In 1988, when he became 70 years old, Mr. Pechman became a senior fellow emeritus at Brookings, but remained fully active. In recent years he had turned his attention to evaluating the tax systems of other countries, to help them make reforms on the lines of those taken by the United States in 1986. He involved scholars in many other countries in that effort and traveled abroad extensively.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Pechman was a 1937 graduate of the City College of New York. He earned master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Wisconsin, which also awarded him an honorary law degree in 1978. He became a senior fellow at Brookings in 1960, and directed the economic studies program from 1962 to 1983.
        He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of Phi Beta Kappa.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Massow; two daughters, Ellen Pechman of Raleigh, N.C., and Jane Pechman Stern, of Albany, Calif.; three sisters, Dorothy Rice of San Francisco, Rochelle Novins of Armonk, N.Y., and Shirley Cohen of Silver Spring, Md., and three grandchildren.
        The funeral will be private. A memorial will be held at the Brookings Institution but no date has been set, Mrs. Pechman said.
        JOSEPH A. PECHMAN IS DEAD AT 71
      