
       William F. Bolger, the nation's Postmaster General from 1978 to 1984, died yesterday at Arlington Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Springfield, Va.
        William F. Bolger, the nation's Postmaster General from 1978 to 1984, died yesterday at Arlington Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Springfield, Va.
        A spokesman for the Postal Service in Washington said last night that Mr. Bolger had suffered a heart attack while visiting Omaha, Neb., on July 28. He was then transferred to Arlington.  He was the second career postal employee to lead the United States Postal Service and the 65th Postmaster General. The first career employee to rise to the top was Jesse M. Donaldson in 1947. Began as a Postal Clerk
        Mr. Bolger, who went to work as a postal clerk and messenger in 1941, served for five years as Deputy Postmaster General and took charge of the deficit-ridden agency in 1978. He steered it to a surplus in 1983, the first in more than three decades, and another in 1984, the year he left.
        The current Postmaster General, Anthony M. Frank, said yesterday that Mr. Bolger ''was a leader of great stature and boundless energy who brought a spirit of innovation and vision to this organization during critical times of change and challenge.''
        Until his retirement in 1984, Mr. Bolger saw the advent of electronic mail, rode out some contentious labor situations and promoted the nine-digit ZIP code to cope with an increased load, particularly direct-mail advertising. Reassurance on the 9 Digits
        But Mr. Bolger sought to reassure the country's letter writers and bill payers not to fear the nine digits ''in the near future or ever.''
        In a 1984 interview, he said the four extra digits were just an attractive price incentive for business to use automated equipment.
        ''We're never going to tell you your number, as an individual, unless you ask,'' he said.
        After his retirement, Mr. Bolger founded TCOM Systems Inc., a business-mailing system, and was president of the Air Transport Association of America, a trade group that represents major airlines.
        William Frederick Leonard Bolger was born March 13, 1923, in Waterbury, Conn. He was a 1949 graduate of George Washington University.
        For a brief time he was a clerk for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and he served in the Army Air Corps before joining the postal agency in 1941.
        Mr. Bolger made his way up through New England offices and returned to Washington in 1973 to become Deputy Postmaster General.
        Mr. Bolger married a former postal clerk, Marjorie Tilton, in 1949. Born in New England
        A tall man with bushy eyebrows and silver hair, he was an avid golfer, liked to ski and enjoyed outdoor cooking with small groups of friends. He also favored summering in Cape Cod.
        ''I was born in New England,'' he once said, ''and I will return there.''
        Among the offices he held in recent years was president of the Wolf Trap Foundation in Washington and of the Capital area chapter of the Leukemia Society of America.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Bolger is survived two daughters, Catherine and Margaret.
      