
       James Terrell, an architect who developed designs for many of the nation's leading stores, including Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's and Bloomingdale's in New York and Marshall Field in Chicago, died of AIDS at New York Hospital on Saturday. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        James Terrell, an architect who developed designs for many of the nation's leading stores, including Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's and Bloomingdale's in New York and Marshall Field in Chicago, died of AIDS at New York Hospital on Saturday. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Terrell was a graduate of the Yale University Graduate School of Architecture and a member of the American Institute of Architects and the Institute of Store Planners.
        He became known in the 1970's for innovative department-store designs, for for which he won many awards. Explaining his new approach to retail stores, he once said, ''Each department should be a theater, with the feeling of individual shops tied together by architecture.''
        One of his more famous designs, in 1979 for the main floor of Bloomingdale's, employed black marble, black plastic, black paint and a lot of brass to create what Paul Goldberger described in The New York Times as ''the most daring piece of large-scale store design in a decade.''
        Mr. Terrell also designed the escalator well that is housed in a tower of its own at Saks Fifth Avenue. Mr. Terrell's designs won Store of the Year Awards four times.
        In 1980, Mr. Terrell was a founding partner of Hambrecht Terrell International and served as its president. He was also chairman of the fund-raising committee of the Design Industry Foundation for AIDS.
        Mr. Terrell is survived by his sister, Nancy Terrell Longnecker of St. John, V.I., and two nephews.
        Correction:  August 23, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary yesterday about James Terrell misattributed the 1979 design of the main floor of Bloomingdale's. Although Mr. Terrell designed projects for Bloomingdale's, the new main floor of the department store was designed by Barbara D'Arcy.
      