
       John Duncan Simpson, former executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and former president of the New York City Transit Authority, died of cancer yesterday at Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 52 years old and lived in Laguna Hills, Calif.
        John Duncan Simpson, former executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and former president of the New York City Transit Authority, died of cancer yesterday at Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 52 years old and lived in Laguna Hills, Calif.
        Mr. Simpson, a 1959 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, was president of the Fluor Daniel Venture Group in Irvine, Calif., at his death.
        Mr. Simpson became executive director of the M.T.A. in August 1979, taking over the nation's largest public transportation system at a time when efforts to overhaul it were beginning. He had successfully built a bus system for the Regional Transportation District in the Denver, Colo., area.
        In January 1981 he was named president of the Transit Authority. In that post he oversaw the city's subways and buses and helped develop a five-year plan to revitalize subway, bus and commuter rail lines. When he left in 1983, the first new subway cars were being introduced. Korea, Berlin and Vietnam
        After graduating from West Point, Mr. Simpson served in the Army in South Korea building roads and airfields. In later years he served in Berlin and Vietnam. He received a master's degree in engineering from Princeton in 1962 and a master's in public affairs from Princeton in 1969.
        He later taught economics and public policy at West Point.
        Mr. Simpson also worked for the Nixon Administration on its national security staff in the early 1970's. He later resigned from the military with the rank of lieutenant colonel and joined the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York as a deputy environmental commissioner.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Elli Hatcher; a daughter, Heather, of Manhattan; a son, Sean, a cadet at West Point; his mother, Josephine, and a sister, Joann, both of Chicago.
      