
       John Ogdon, a British pianist best known for his championship of complex late-Romantic and 20th-century scores, died yesterday at Charing Cross Hospital in London, where he was admitted Monday with bronchial pneumonia. He was 52 years old.
        John Ogdon, a British pianist best known for his championship of complex late-Romantic and 20th-century scores, died yesterday at Charing Cross Hospital in London, where he was admitted Monday with bronchial pneumonia. He was 52 years old.
        Mr. Ogdon, who was born in Nottinghamshire in 1937, made his London debut at age 21 with the hourlong piano concerto of Ferruccio Busoni. He immediately gained the attention of critics and pianophiles, and went on to become a champion of Busoni's music (his recording of the concerto was the only one available for years). He won the Liszt Prize in Budapest in 1961, and in 1962 he shared first place in the Tchaikovsky Competition with Vladimir Ashkenazy.
        He quickly made debuts in most of the world's musical capitals, winning praise for virtuoso technique and unusual programming. Describing his playing in The New York Times, Donal Henahan wrote that ''the bearlike, bearded Englishman hunches over the keys and performs his prodigies with as little movement above the wrists as a speed typist.'' Mr. Henahan went on to say that ''he held the line together with a fierce concentration and intensity,'' achieving ''daredevil virtuosity and heavy-breathing drama.'' Offering Premieres
        The pianist gave much of his time to 20th-century music, giving first performances of works by Alexander Goehr, Harrison Birtwistle, Alan Rawsthorne and several others, and playing the rarely heard music by Nielsen, Messiaen, Szymanowski and Scriabin as well as Busoni.
        Mr. Ogdon's career was curtailed by acute schizophrenia, a disease that ran in his family and about which his father, Howard Ogdon, who also had the illness, wrote a book, ''Kingdom of the Lost.'' The pianist's illness was graphically detailed in another book, ''Virtuoso,'' by his wife, Brenda Lucas. This year, the BBC broadcast a television drama based on her book, which recounted her husband's years of shock and drug treatments in American mental hospitals, suicide attempts and fears.
        Mr. Ogdon was able to return to playing at times, and made something of a comeback in the early 1980's. ''In my experience, there has never been anyone who could pass music through his brain so quickly,'' said Rodney Friend, a co-concertmaster of the BBC Symphony Orchestra (and formerly of the New York Philharmonic) who had known Mr. Ogdon since their school days at the Royal Manchester College of Music.
        ''When he was 18 he was already one of the really great world-class talents,'' Mr. Friend said. ''The last 15 years or so of his career were very difficult, because of his illness, but a 50th-birthday party was given for him at the Queen Elizabeth Hall, and Barry Tuckwell and I actually played the Brahms Horn Trio with him then.''
        Mr. Ogdon is survived by his wife, with whom he sometimes appeared in duo piano recitals, a daughter, Annabel, and a son, Richard.
      