
       Emperor Hirohito reigned over not one Japan, but three: a Japan consumed with militarism almost from the time he took over the Chrysanthemum Throne, a Japan that lay in ruins at the end of World War II and seemed destined for years of occupation and dependency, and finally a Japan that, from the shambles of defeat, achieved in peacetime global economic power.
        Emperor Hirohito reigned over not one Japan, but three: a Japan consumed with militarism almost from the time he took over the Chrysanthemum Throne, a Japan that lay in ruins at the end of World War II and seemed destined for years of occupation and dependency, and finally a Japan that, from the shambles of defeat, achieved in peacetime global economic power.
        Through it all, the Emperor saw himself as a constitutional monarch whose duty was to symbolize the Japanese nation and to be the father of the Japanese national family.
        But on one critical occasion, the Emperor stepped out of that passive role to take events into his own hands. After the American atomic bombings of Japan in August 1945, the Emperor decreed that Japan would accept Allied terms for surrender in World War II. In doing so, he defied die-hard generals who contended that Japan should continue to fight even though that could end only in national destruction.
        Thus in a national radio broadcast on Aug. 15, 1945, he told the Japanese people that they should ''bear the unbearable and endure the unendurable,'' which saved not only his nation but also the Chrysanthemum Throne.
        The decision surely shaped Hirohito's place in history, which in accordance with Japanese tradition will know him after his death not by his given name, which means Broad-Minded Benevolence, but as Showa, or Enlightened Peace, the title chosen by court scholars for the era of his reign, the 124th in a line of emperors that, according to dubious legend, has been unbroken for 2,647 years.
        The choice of Showa to designate the Hirohito period was derided as ironic during the years of military ascendancy in the Government that functioned in the Emperor's name. But the selection was hailed as prophetic when a democratized Japan rose from defeat to attain undreamed-of prosperity.
        Hirohito was not directly responsible for Japan's policies in the postwar years, but he reigned during an extraordinary shift of history. His country today, although no longer the heart of an empire, has achieved through business acumen and diligence most of the economic aims that eluded it through military adventurism.
        No Japanese monarch lived or ruled as long; Hirohito's reign lasted more than 62 years, beginning with the death of his father, Emperor Taisho, on Christmas Day 1926.
        In the early years of his reign, the slight, narrow-shouldered Hirohito stood before his people and the world as the living symbol and inspiration of Japanese expansionism. It was in his name that Japanese forces in the 1930's and early 1940's occupied large areas of China, overran Southeast Asia and executed the brilliantly successful surprise attack on Pearl Harbor. In his name, nearly two million Japanese died as the tide of war turned against Japan.
        But long before his death, Hirohito had become a benign, grandfatherly figure, a symbol of national unity and continuity. His symbolic importance was reinforced in the 1970's and 80's, when the Emperor met the leaders of the United States, China and South Korea and expressed regret for the past.
        His remarks never amounted to a full apology, but given the highly circumspect imperial manner they were as close to one as might have been expected.  MacArthur Saw Unity
        In August 1945, at the end of World War II, there were demands in Washington, as well as from the British, the Russians and others, that Hirohito be brought to trial as a war criminal for his involvement in militarism, be it involuntary or otherwise. But General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, the American commander of the Allied occupation of Japan, decided that it was essential to keep the Emperor on his throne as a possible unifying force in a country that faced political chaos as the postwar period began.
        Later accounts of the Emperor's wartime role asserted that he had been deeply opposed personally to the military adventurism undertaken by the generals, admirals and nationalist officials who wielded the real power in the Government. According to this view, they had dictated the bellicose imperial rescripts that accompanied the progress of Japanese arms at every step.
        According to the records of the time, it was Hirohito who personally called for an end to the war after Japan's defeat became certain. His decision to surrender came when a divided Cabinet left it to the Emperor to say whether the views of the peacemakers should prevail over those who wished to fight on.
        In a second historic action, Hirohito, in a broadcast to the nation on Jan. 1, 1946, repudiated what he called the ''mere legends and myths'' that had created ''the false conception that the Emperor is divine.''
        The American authorities in Tokyo maintained at the time that Hirohito had taken this tradition-shattering step on his own initiative. But Japanese accounts say he acted at the behest of American officers under General MacArthur.
        The transition from a concept of the monarchy as an institution blessed by the gods to the new image of the sovereign as an emblem of the state under a democratic constitution was a success.
        General MacArthur said in his memoirs, published in 1964, that the Emperor, by renouncing divinity, had assumed for himself ''a leading part in the democratization of his people,'' and that his subjects, who revered him, who had once been forbidden even to gaze upon him, came to respect and admire him.  Symbol of Japan
        In recent years, younger Japanese have said they had no particular feelings about the Emperor. But few people saw any reason to change the institution, and an overwhelming majority consistently said in surveys that he should remain the symbol of the Japanese state.
        The Japanese say the Western concept of divinity was applied to the Emperor erroneously by non-Japanese through a misunderstanding of the nature of Shinto beliefs. The Emperor was never considered a ''god'' in the Western sense, they said, nor did most Japanese emperors really rule.
        Rather, the Emperor was regarded by traditionalist Japanese as the human personification of a kami. The word is a Shinto expression that cannot readily be translated; it means, approximately, an entity possessing qualities essentially superior to those of ordinary existence, something to be revered.
        The foreign misconception was perpetuated by the reverence paid to the Emperor's person. To Western eyes, that seemed tantamount to religious veneration and gave rise to the misleading phrase ''emperor worship.''
        In his personal mien, Hirohito, the inheritor of this divine tradition, seemed the most unassuming of mortals.
        Resplendently uniformed and seated on his famous white horse, Shiroyuki, or White Snow, Hirohito was an imperial figure on the military parade ground. But when afoot and in civilian clothes that sometimes seemed a trifle loose on his spare, 5-foot-3-inch frame, he looked like a typical middle-class Tokyo businessman.
        It was said that Hirohito's principal assumption of authority over his daily schedule was his insistence on a Western-style breakfast, with bacon and eggs, instead of the traditional Japanese morning meal of soybean soup, rice and pickled vegetables. He acquired this taste when he made a trip to Britain as Crown Prince.  End of Feudal Era
        At his birth on April 29, 1901, as the first son of Crown Prince Yoshihito and Princess Sadako - now known as Emperor Taisho and Empress Teimei - Hirohito was destined to carry on the tradition of an imperial line whose descent is traced in legend to Amaterasu Omikami, the Sun Goddess in the pantheon of Shinto. Shinto was the Japanese state religion until officials of the Allied occupation decreed the separation of church and state; it continues, with Buddhism, to be one of the two principal religions of the Japanese.
        It is from the ancient belief in heavenly origin that the Japanese never speak of the Emperor by his given name during his lifetime, always referring to him by the title Tenno Heika. These words mean ''Celestial Emperor Whom One Regards From Below the Staircase,'' deriving from the former requirement that the sovereign always be addressed by his retainers from a lower height.
        Upon the birth of the male child, scholars of the imperial court searched ancient Chinese classics for inspiration in choosing his personal name. They came to a sentence in an account of the instructions given by a Chinese emperor to his younger brother, written by Confucius in the year 500, that said:
        ''Make yourself broad-minded, and let people live in comfort.''
        The Chinese character that Japanese pronounce ''hiro'' was taken from the classic Chinese rendering of the word ''broad-minded'' and was combined with the word ''hito,'' meaning ''benevolence,'' which is part of the personal name of every Japanese emperor.
        The era in which Hirohito was born is remembered for the so-called Meiji Restoration, which theoretically returned authority to the Emperor from the military dictators, called shoguns, and for Japan's amazing progress from feudalism and isolation to the front rank of world powers.
        Whether much real authority was given back to the throne remains debatable. But it was in the name of Hirohito's grandfather, Emperor Meiji - formerly Mutsuhito - that Japan embarked upon a rapid course of modernization.
        At the turn of the century, in swift succession, Japanese forces defeated the Chinese and the Russians. Japanese power was thus established in Korea, Manchuria and Taiwan by the time Hirohito's father came to the throne in 1912.  Interest in Biology
        As was the imperial custom at the time, young Prince Hirohito was educated by tutors in a separate household. The most notable development in a serene childhood was the interest he developed in marine biology, which was to stay with him the rest of his life. In pursuing the science with field work in Sagami Bay, near one of the imperial villas about 40 miles south of Tokyo, he became an accomplished swimmer. A few weeks before his 17th birthday, Hirohito became engaged to Princess Nagako, daughter of Prince Kuniyoshi Kuni. They were to have been married in 1923, but the ceremony was postponed until the following January because of the disastrous earthquake in Tokyo and the Kanto Plain on Sept. 1, 1923.
        Before his marriage, the crown prince and a distinguished retinue had made a visit, in 1921, to London and other European capitals, an episode that Hirohito later described as the happiest period in his life. Shortly after his return to Tokyo, the young prince was plunged into official duties because of his father's failing health.
        On Nov. 10, 1921, Hirohito was appointed prince regent to carry on the imperial functions. Emperor Taisho died on Dec. 25, 1926, and Hirohito came to the throne. The formal coronation was held on Nov. 10, 1928, in elaborate Shinto ceremonies at the ancestral palace in Kyoto.
        The nation followed with increasing concern the birth of one daughter after another to Hirohito's consort, for Japanese law requires that the heir to the throne be a male. With the birth of the fourth girl, it was expected that the young emperor would take a concubine. It is related that the court officials arranged elaborate temptations but that Hirohito, to the disappointment of many well-born young women in palace circles, remained constant to his wife.
        On Dec. 23, 1933, booming cannon informed a joyous country that the empress had at last given birth to an heir, Crown Prince Akihito.
        This was followed by the birth of a second son, now known as Prince Hitachi. Hirohito and Nagako had seven children in all, five daughters and two sons. One daughter died at the age of 2.
        Koichi Kido relates, in a diary written when he was Hirohito's confidant as lord keeper of the privy seal, that the young emperor showed an early distaste for the growing militarist influence in his government.
        In 1932, Lord Kido wrote, Hirohito asked that the new prime minister about to be selected be ''one who has no fascist leanings, and about whom there has been no unsavory rumor, who is moderate in thought and who is not militaristic.''
        The next year, according to the Kido diaries, Hirohito expressed misgivings about his government's decision to withdraw from the League of Nations after that organization had condemned Japan's expansion in China.
        In 1937, Hirohito was credited with bringing the fighting between Chinese and Japanese forces to a halt, albeit a temporary one.  Opposed to Alliance
        According to accounts at the time, it was Hirohito who insisted on capital punishment for the young officers who had led a bloody mutiny against their more conservative superiors on Feb. 26, 1936, in which a number of senior officers and high officials were assassinated. Kido also has indicated that the later excesses of the Japanese army, notably the infamous Rape of Nanking in December 1937, were kept from Hirohito's knowledge.
        Both Kido and Joseph C. Grew, U.S. ambassador to Japan at the outbreak of World War II, indicated in diaries that Hirohito was opposed to the Tripartite Alliance of Japan, Germany and Italy. According to Kido, the emperor foresaw that the alliance would eventually lead Japan into war with the United States. His misgivings were disregarded.
        ''The myth of the divine monarch whose word was sacrosanct was revealed as a shabby pretense on occasions like these, and Hirohito was well aware of it,'' the British journalist Leonard Mosley wrote in his biography, ''Hirohito, Emperor of Japan,'' published in 1966.
        Another authority, Robert J.C. Butow, wrote in his definitive history ''Tojo and the Coming of War,'' published in 1961:
        ''For the emperor successfully to have intervened in such a way as to direct affairs along lines more in accord with his personal conscience would have required him to be a man of less retiring personality, with a very practical grasp of political affairs.
        ''Moreover, he would have needed the support of an enforcement machinery capable of coping with powerful dissidents, and the encouragement of advisers who believed a more active personal participation by his majesty to be necessary and desirable.''
        According to this view, then, Hirohito had neither the emotional nor political tools to curb the dominant militarist group in the ruling circle.
        Other historians, a distinct minority, have argued that Hirohito bore far more responsibility for Japanese militarism than is generally acknowledged. David Bergamini, in his book ''Japan's Imperial Conspiracy,'' asserts that Hirohito helped plan expansionist policies, from the invasion of Manchuria in 1931 to the raid on Pearl Harbor 10 years later.
        The emperor himself never responded directly to such claims.
        One of his few public comments came in 1971, before a trip to Europe, when he told foreign journalists that ''the things I knew personally were really very few.''  Pearl Harbor Notice
        By 1941, the militarists, headed by the prime minister, Gen. Hideki Tojo, were convinced that a coalition called by Japanese the ''ABCD powers'' - the Americans, British, Chinese and Dutch - stood in the way of Japan's ambitions to find an outlet for expansion in control of Chinese and Southeast Asian raw materials and markets.
        When the United States acted to counter Japanese expansionism with a trade embargo and other measures, the decision was made in Tokyo to neutralize the American threat by an attack on the U.S. Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor. Mosley wrote that the emperor, in giving his consent to the beginning of hostilities, insisted that the United States be notified of the Japanese intention before the attack took place.
        If Tojo intended to follow Hirohito's wishes in giving Washington prior notice of the Pearl Harbor attack, a delay in decoding a final message from Tokyo to the Japanese Embassy in Washington prevented him from doing so. The Japanese carrier-based air force struck at 7:55 a.m. Dec. 7, 1941, Hawaiian time, with complete surprise.
        Pearl Harbor was a smoking shambles when an imperial rescript, declaring war, was issued, nearly nine hours after the first bombs had fallen.
        ''It has been truly unavoidable and far from our wishes that our empire has now been brought to cross swords with America and Britain,'' the decree declared, in a sentence that was said to have been inserted in the prepared document by Hirohito himself.
        The emperor is said to have actively intervened in the conduct of the war for the first time in a conference at the Imperial Palace on New Year's Eve, 1944. It was evident by then that Japan had lost and was indeed, as the emperor said, in a ''desperate situation.'' Toshikazu Kase, a senior diplomat, wrote in his diary the next day:
        ''There is only one question left: How can we avert the chaos attendant upon a disastrous defeat and how shall we seek the reconstruction of Japan, so defeated?''
        By the middle of 1945, as Japan's situation became hopeless in the face of American advances in the Pacific islands and air attacks that had turned most of Tokyo into a charred wasteland, the emperor at last decided to take the initiative in a bid to end the futile resistance. He first attempted a personal approach to the Soviet Union for mediation with the United States, but Moscow ignored the overtures.
        On July 26, 1945, the United States, Britain and China signed the Potsdam Declaration calling for the ''unconditional surrender of the Japanese armed forces,'' a wording that deliberately left undefined the status of the emperor and the civil government of the defeated country. With a final show of bravado, the Japanese Cabinet rejected the demand.  Acceptance of Defeat
        Then came the atomic bombing of Hiroshima on Aug. 6. Two days later, the Soviet Union repudiated a longstanding neutrality pact with Japan and attacked the Japanese forces in Manchuria. The next day, an atomic bomb exploded over Nagasaki. Clearly the end had come.
        An imperial conference was called in the emperor's elaborate air-raid shelter at midnight on Aug. 10 to consider Japan's next step.
        There were still die-hards in the Cabinet, representing the military, who insisted on continuing the hopeless struggle. Finally Adm. Kantaro Suzuki, the prime minister, rose and proposed that Hirohito make the decision whether to surrender or go on fighting.
        This was ''an extraordinary deviation from time-honored practice,'' Toshikazu Kase wrote later. Hirohito was equal to it. According to authoritative accounts of that historic night, the emperor rose from his thronelike seat at the head of the conference table and made an impromptu statement in which he said:
        ''I have given serious thought to the situation prevailing at home and abroad, and I have concluded that continuing the war can only mean destruction for the nation and a prolongation of bloodshed and cruelty in the world. I cannot bear to see my innocent people suffer any longer. The time has come when we must bear the unbearable. I swallow my tears and give my sanction to the proposal to accept the Allied proclamation.''
        The Japanese capitulation to the Potsdam terms contained the proviso that there be no postwar changes demanded ''which prejudice the prerogatives of his majesty as a sovereign ruler.'' The United States, after some debate in Washington, agreed.
        Late on Aug. 14, the emperor recorded a brief speech to be broadcast to the nation the following day.
        In the ambiguous phraseology of Japanese officialdom, Hirohito proclaimed that ''the war situation has developed not necessarily to our advantage.'' He called upon the people to ''endure the unendurable'' and to prepare for whatever might come.
        ''The enemy has begun to employ a new and most cruel bomb, the power of which to do damage is indeed incalculable, taking the toll of many innocent lives,'' the emperor said. ''Should we continue to fight, it would not only result in an ultimate collapse and obliteration of the Japanese nation, but also it would lead to the total extinction of human civilization.''
        He went on, ''Such being the case, how are we to save the millions of our subjects; or to atone ourselves before the hallowed spirits of our imperial ancestors? This is the reason why we have ordered the acceptance of the provisions of the Joint Declaration of the Powers.''
        The formal surrender was signed aboard the American battleship Missouri in Tokyo Bay on Sept. 2. Two days later, Hirohito addressed Parliament, saying in part:
        ''It is our desire that our people will surmount the manifold hardships and trials which attend the termination of the war, and make manifest the innate glory of Japan's national policy, win the confidence of the world, establish firmly a peaceful state and contribute to the progress of mankind.''  Emergence of Respect
        There were calls for the Emperor's indictment as a war criminal, but General MacArthur was opposed to making Hirohito a martyr. When the emperor called on the supreme commander in the American Embassy on Sept. 26, MacArthur received him wearing the casual, open-collared ''uniform of the day.'' The emperor, who was dwarfed beside the tall, imposing general, wore formal striped trousers and cutaway coat.
        According to the MacArthur memoirs, this is what the emperor said when they were alone with their interpreters:
        ''I come to you, General MacArthur, to offer myself in the judgment of the powers you represent as the one to bear sole responsibility for every political and military decision made and taken by my people in the conduct of the war.''
        ''He was an emperor by inherent birth, but in that instant I knew I faced the First Gentleman of Japan in his own right,'' MacArthur wrote.
        After Hirohito had made his celebrated broadcast renouncing divinity on Jan. 1, 1946, according to the Mosley biography, he turned to the empress and said:
        ''Do I look more human to you now?''
        A new, anti-militarist Constitution, approved by the Allied Occupation Command and adopted by Parliament on Nov. 3, 1946, defined the new role of the emperor as ''the symbol of the state and the unity of the people, deriving his position from the will of the people with whom resides sovereignty.''
        The document provided that the monarch's duties in various state processes, such as the proclamation of national elections, must be performed ''with the advice and approval of the Cabinet.''
        With the encouragement of the occupation authorities, a campaign began to ''humanize'' the emperor by bringing him, with as little royal protocol as was possible, into contact with more of his people.
        The effort was not without awkward moments. It is related that on one occasion, while visiting a factory, Hirohito was startled when a worker stepped forward and shoved out his hand in the new manner of greeting learned from hand-shaking American soldiers.
        The emperor hesitated a moment. ''Let us do it the Japanese way,'' he said quietly. He took a step backward and bowed. The abashed worker returned the traditional gesture.  Master of Ceremony
        In the following years, the graying emperor and his motherly looking consort became a familiar sight around the country, opening exhibitions, attending performances of various kinds, even occasionally visiting a department store. The emperor customarily wore a crumpled gray fedora, which he waved to respectful crowds.
        Although the state functions remaining to him were purely formal, they kept the emperor busy from morning until late afternoon. He was required to sign Cabinet orders and new legislation, and he took his responsibilities seriously, receiving regular briefings from the ministries on dominant issues.
        At various times he went to the palace shrines to perform Shinto rites required of him as nominal head of the former state religion. Each spring he planted rice seedlings on the palace grounds as a symbol of Japanese hopes for a good harvest.
        His most solemn responsibility came each year on Aug. 15, when he led the nation in a remembrance of the wartime surrender. His words changed little over the years. ''Even now,'' he would say, ''my heart aches when I think of the many people who fell in the war and of their bereaved families.''
        Away from his official duties, Hirohito spent countless happy hours with microscopes and other scientific paraphernalia in his marine biology laboratory. Half a dozen authoritative books on the subject appeared under his name. He was credited with discovering previously unknown species of tiny sea creatures in his explorations of Sagami Bay.
        The Emperor's principal indoor relaxation was watching television, which he once said enabled him to take part in the everyday life of his people. He also was a great fan of sumo wrestling, and he often watched matches from the imperial box in the sumo arena near the Sumida River.
        Like all cultivated Japanese, the emperor and empress were accomplished in Chinese calligraphy and the composition of brief verses in the formal styles called haiku and waka. Once a year they presided at a reading of prize-winning poems submitted to a contest under palace sponsorship.
        The emperor's favorite poetic form was the waka, also called tanka, which in Japanese must be composed in 31 syllables. Here are free translations of two of his works in this style:  I strain to hear  The voice of the men unseen  In the hope it will guide me  In my daily ways.  Sublime is the moment  When the world is at peace  And the limitless deep  Lies bathed in the morning sun.  Rebuilding a Bond
        In the early years after the war, the throne was sometimes an object of criticism as a parasitic institution. But as bitter memories of the war grew dimmer, the vilification of the imperial family also passed.
        If anything, affection deepened in 1959 when Crown Prince Akihito broke with imperial tradition and took as his bride Michiko Shoda, a commoner, the daughter of a wealthy businessman. The choice was a crowd-pleaser, and all Japan watched the wedding on television. In 1960, the birth of Prince Hiro, the first son of the crown prince and princess, assured still another heir to the throne.
        In 1971 Hirohito became the first reigning emperor of Japan to travel abroad when he and Empress Nagako visited Britain, Belgium, West Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, France and Switzerland. On that trip they set foot on American soil for the first time when they stopped briefly in Anchorage, Alaska, where they were greeted by President Nixon.
        The first full-scale trip to the United States came four years later, and it offered an extraordinary opportunity for imperial reflections on World War II.
        Hirohito was received by President Ford with all the pomp that the White House could muster. At a state banquet he voiced regret over World War II and said he hoped his visit would contribute to ''everlasting friendship'' between the peoples of the United States and Japan. While he was in the capital he placed a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and an aide visited Norfolk, Va., to lay a wreath at the grave of MacArthur.
        Japanese watching the two-week visit on television were impressed by the relaxed and natural atmosphere of Hirohito's meetings with many Americans, with handshakes and small talk and sometimes a hand laid on his arm.
        After his return, the emperor told reporters that if he could move in the same way among the Japanese people, ''I would think it better.'' But, he said, ''I very much doubt that can be realized in Japan.''
        His contacts with his own subjects were largely confined to two public appearances a year - on Jan. 2, to extend New Year's greetings, and on April 29, his birthday. He would appear with the empress and other family members, wave to the crowds that had been allowed to enter the palace grounds briefly.  Contacts With Old Foes
        After the United States journey, Hirohito was called upon twice more to reflect on the war with important allies still nursing deep wounds from past Japanese aggression. Both times, his words were drafted by government ministries. Both times, careful attention was paid that the words not go too far, to avoid ruffling right-wing elements at home who felt that Japan had done nothing that warranted an apology.
        In 1978, six years after normal relations were restored with China, its leader, Deng Xiaoping, went to Tokyo. When the two men met, the emperor said that ''there were unhappy events in the long history of Sino-Japanese relations.'' That was as close as he came to mentioning Japan's invasion of China in 1930s.
        In 1984 Hirohito received the South Korean president, Chun Doo Hwan, and alluded to the Japanese occupation of Korea from 1910 to 1945, a colonial rule judged by historians to have been uncommonly harsh. ''It is indeed regrettable,'' the emperor said in his most circumspect manner, ''that there was an unfortunate past between us for a period in the century, and I believe that it should not be repeated again.''
        Until the weeks of vigil before his death, Hirohito and his family had long ceased to be the object of daily concern for their subjects. Unlike members of the British royal family, their personal doings were not a topic of public discussion, avidly covered by the popular press.
        There was a flurry of celebration in 1986 to mark Hirohito's 60th anniversary on the Chrysanthemum Throne. But the emperor himself did not take part in ceremonies, and, as on so many other matters, what he thought of the fuss could only be guessed.
      