
       Aleksandr S. Yakovlev, who designed World War II warplanes and modern passenger jets in a career of more than 60 years, died Tuesday after a long illness, Tass said today. He was 84 years old.
        Aleksandr S. Yakovlev, who designed World War II warplanes and modern passenger jets in a career of more than 60 years, died Tuesday after a long illness, Tass said today. He was 84 years old.
        ''Yakovlev was known for his tireless search for fresh ideas, creative courage and great talent for organization,'' the official press agency said. He was eulogized in an obituary signed by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and other top Soviet officials.
        Mr. Yakovlev, who was awarded the Lenin Prize and twice named a Hero of Socialist Labor, was the last of a generation of aircraft designers including Oleg K. Antonov, Andrei N. Tupolev and Sergei V. Ilyushin, who dominated Soviet aviation for decades. From Fitter to Designer
        As a 20-year-old aircraft fitter at Moscow's Central Airport in 1927, Mr. Yakovlev designed the AIR-1, a light airplane that set a world record by covering 800 miles in 15 hours and 30 minutes.
        The best-known Yakovlev planes of the last 20 years are the YAK-42, a 120-seat short-haul passenger jet, and the vertical-takeoff YAK-38, known by NATO as the Forger. A Moscow-based expert said the Forger is regarded as a ''poor cousin'' of the British Harrier warplane.
        In World War II, the Yakovlev fighter planes, the YAK-1 through YAK-9, were the front-line fighters of the Soviet Air Force. Of 61,000 fighters built by the Soviet Union in the war years, 37,000 were YAK's.
        In a 1976 article, the weekly Moscow News cited a telegram the Soviet Defense Committee received from air force pilots telling them how they had fought off 25 German planes with seven YAK-1's. ''These Soviet planes were more than a match for the famous Messerschmitts and Junkers,'' it said. Built Civilian Planes
        The YAK-3, considered one of the best of Mr. Yakovlev's World War II fighters, was described by a Western expert as ''impossibly crude and the welding looked as if it had been done by a village blacksmith,'' Moscow News said. But the outer finish was superb and the plane was reliable, it said.
        In the postwar years as the Mikoyan-Gurevich, or MIG, became the dominant Soviet jet fighter, Mr. Yakovlev increasingly turned his attention to civilian aircraft, becoming the main producer of sport planes. One such plane, the YAK-55, was displayed Sunday in Moscow's first air show in more than 20 years.
      