
       Joseph Alsop, the syndicated Washington columnist whose robust opinions appeared in newspapers around the country for five decades, died yesterday morning in his house in the Georgetown section of Washington. He was 78 years old.
        Joseph Alsop, the syndicated Washington columnist whose robust opinions appeared in newspapers around the country for five decades, died yesterday morning in his house in the Georgetown section of Washington. He was 78 years old.
        Reached at his house, his sister-in-law Patricia Alsop - the widow of his brother and former collaborator, Stewart Alsop - said Joseph Alsop's death was caused by severe anemia, lung cancer and severe emphysema, all of which he had been fighting for more than a year.
        Mr. Alsop, who was related to the Oyster Bay branch of the Roosevelt family, was a shrewd, dogged, well-connected newsman with an exaggerated old-school manner, and he dearly loved controversy.
        He was a fierce supporter of the United States effort in Vietnam and, in the late 1950's, a champion of the view that the United States was letting the Soviet Union open a dangerous ''missile gap.''
        When he retired as a columnist in 1974, his Washington political column was believed to be the longest-running nationally syndicated column of its kind, appearing three times a week in 300 newspapers. Column Was Born in the 30's
        He wrote the column jointly with Robert E. Kintner from 1937 until World War II, when he joined the Navy. He and his brother Stewart collaborated on the column from 1946 to 1958, when Stewart began writing for The Saturday Evening Post. Joseph Alsop wrote by himself from then on. The columns first appeared under the title ''The Capital Parade'' and later under the heading ''Matter of Fact.''
        In New York, Joseph Alsop's columns long appeared in The Herald Tribune, and for years he and Walter Lippmann were major adornments of the paper's opinion columns.
        Despite his passion for picking sides - he once called himself ''one of the warmest American supporters of the Israeli cause'' - he thought of his columns as largely reportorial. ''I do have strong opinions,'' he said in a 1974 interview, ''but I do try to give the customers value for money - which are the facts on which my opinions are based.'' A Bite in the Style
        Mr. Alsop's writing was often gloomy, flinty and biting and so was he, though he could be charming.
        Writing on Southeast Asian issues early in 1971, he asserted that Senator J. W. Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat who was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and other Senators were ''downright eager to be proved right by an American defeat in war and will loathe being proved wrong by U.S. success in Southeast Asia.''
        James Reston, columnist for The New York Times, termed that allegation ''unspeakable'' at the time.
        Mr. Alsop was gloomily conservative about many foreign affairs questions. ''Can the free societies survive, and if so, how?'' was a question he posed. He was known as an exponent of the policy of containing Communism. Phenomena in Soviet Union
        In addition to warning about what he saw as the Soviet Union's ominous military might, he mused about all sorts of phenomena inside the Soviet borders, including variations in grain harvests.
        On domestic issues, Stewart Alsop described his brother and himself, in a 1971 interview, as longstanding and ''very square 'New Deal' liberals.''
        In his legwork in Washington and elsewhere, Joseph Alsop was a skillful and remarkably durable practitioner of what is sometimes called access journalism.
        He was a well-born and well-educated Connecticut Yankee, and he made use of various establishment ties and other carefully nurtured friendships to get news and gain insights. Over the years, he did much entertaining at his Georgetown house. Guests were sometimes awed to find his cousin, the Washington grande dame Alice Roosevelt Longworth, on hand.
        ''That's the way Joe plays the game,'' Mrs. Longworth said in a 1971 interview . ''I know that whenever I go over to Joe's house for a dinner party I am working for him. I don't mind a bit. I know Joe uses me. Good heavens, he uses everybody!'' #2 Passions: Art and Archeology Mr. Alsop had longtime passions for art collecting and archeology. His cultural interests ranged from early art and art collecting to landscape architecture in contemporary Georgetown.
        He built up a substantial collection of art, decorative objects and furniture, and sold much of it as the years passed. But he kept some things that gave him great pleasure, and in 1983 the New York Times columnist Charlotte Curtis called him ''Washington's ultimate connoisseur.''
        The art in Mr. Alsop's houses over the years included family portraits, Japanese lacquer work, Chinese porcelain, oriental hangings and ancient bronzes from Persia. Earlier, Mr. Alsop wrote on archeology for The New Yorker magazine. Of Art and the Collector
        In June and July 1978 he gave a series of six lectures at the National Gallery of Art in Washington on ''The History of Art Collecting.''
        In the past two decades, he wrote repeatedly on cultural subjects. His book ''The Rare Art Traditions: The History of Art Collecting and Its Linked Phenomena Wherever These Have Occurred'' came out in 1982, and James R. Mellow, an art and literary critic, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that ''this is a genuine and quirky book: It provokes ideas; it raises objections.''
        ''As a history of art it is odd and frequently original,'' Mr. Mellow observed, ''reminiscent of some 18th-century volume by a gentleman-scholar who has made himself an authority on his avocation.''
        He also served on the boards of the American School of Classical Studies in Athens and Dumbarton Oaks. And he retained an unfulfilled ambition to write a book on the origins of art. He had been recently working on a volume of memoirs, in collaboration with Adam Platt, under a contract with the New York publishing house of W.W. Norton.  Roosevelt and the Supreme Court Mr. Alsop steadilyl wrote magazine articles and books. His first book, ''The 168 Days'' (1938), was a best seller about President Franklin D. Roosevelt's unsuccessful campaign to enlarge the Supreme Court. It was written jointly with Turner Catledge, a Mississippian who was then a Washington reporter for The New York Times. He later became its executive editor.
        The plainspun Mr. Catledge noted in his memoirs that Mr. Alsop ''was an exceedingly well-educated young man and a wonderful stylist,'' given to ''references to Shakespeare and the classics.''
        Joseph Wright Alsop Jr. was born on Oct. 10, 1910, in Avon, Conn., the son of a prominent Republican who failed several times to win the Connecticut governorship, and the former Corinne Douglas Robinson, who founded the Connecticut League of Republican Women in 1917. Both parents served in the Connecticut General Assembly. Wartime Aide to Chennault
        He graduated from the Groton School in 1928 and Harvard College in 1932. He was a reporter for The Herald Tribune in New York and in Washington before teaming up with Mr. Kintner, who became president of the National Broadcasting Company. Mr. Alsop spent much of World War II in Asia as an aide to Gen. Claire L. Chennault of the Flying Tigers.
        Other works of which Joseph Alsop was author or co-author were ''Men Around the President'' (1938), ''American White Paper'' (1940), ''The Reporter's Trade'' (1958) and ''F.D.R.: A Centenary Remembrance'' (1982).
        Mr. Alsop married the writer Susan Mary Jay Patten, now known as Susan Mary Alsop, in 1961. They were divorced in 1978.
        Stewart Alsop died in 1974 of leukemia. Joseph Alsop is survived by a brother, John D. Alsop, a prominent Republican, of Old Lyme, Conn.; a sister, Corinne Alsop Chubb of Chester, N.J.; a stepson, William Patten of Camden, Me.; a stepdaughter, Anne Milliken of Salt Lake City, and seven step-grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held at 11 A.M. Thursday at St. John's Episcopal Church on Lafayette Square in Washington. A memorial service is to be held in Washington next month.
      