
       Giorgio Sant'Angelo, a fashion designer and member of the avant-garde for more than 20 years, died of lung cancer Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Giorgio Sant'Angelo, a fashion designer and member of the avant-garde for more than 20 years, died of lung cancer Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Sant'Angelo was a true creative spirit who happened to become a fashion designer almost by accident. In 1967 when he was working as a textile designer, he happened to take home a few pieces of plastic. He turned the plastic into geometric-shaped jewelry that was admired by Diana Vreeland, then the editor of Vogue. Pictures of the jewelry were published in Vogue and in other fashion magazines.
        In 1968, he received his first Coty Award for those original designs, which fit in with the expressive mood of fashions in the 1960's. He then began to use tie-dyed fabrics, which he wrapped around the body gypsy-fashion, and found himself in the fashion business. In 1970, he received his second Coty Award, for his clothes.
        After the gypsy look came the Indians. Mr. Sant'Angelo used leather, fringe, feathers and beads in a collection that added North American and South American Indians to the ethnic fashion lexicon. He always preferred fluid, wrapped cloths to strict architectural designs. Use of Stretch Fabrics
        ''He was a highly original and imaginative designer,'' Bill Blass said of his colleague yesterday. ''He brought a lot of energy and vitality to American fashions.''
        Always admired as an avant-garde designer, Mr. Sant'Angelo recently saw many of his ideas passing into fashion's mainstream. His predilection for stretch fabrics that hug the body yet allow it to move freely has been seen in the collections of major designers like Jean-Paul Gaultier, Calvin Klein and Donna Karan. He also made stretch evening dresses.
        Last year he received an award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which replaced the Coty Awards, for his use of stretch fabrics. As early as 1970, he showed stretch leotards and tights in bold patterns that could be worn with or without an overskirt. The leotard, better known in contemporary fashion circles as the body suit, and tights worn with a tunic and jacket, are part of today's fashion.
        As he grew as a designer of ready-to-wear apparel, Mr. Sant'Angelo learned how to make clothes that closed conventionally with buttons and zippers, but they always had an individual and romantic look. Studied Architecture
        He designed swimsuits, men's clothes, handbags, furs and knitwear. He decorated his Park Avenue apartment with modular furniture he designed and made himself.
        Count Giorgio di Sant'Angelo was born in Florence and grew up on his grandfather's farm in Argentina. When he was 17, he returned to Florence with his parents and studied architecture. He attended the Institute of Industrial Design in Barcelona and studied art at the Sorbonne before he came to the United States in the early 1960's to work for the Walt Disney Studios in California. In 1967, he dropped the ''di'' from his name to make it sound more American. He also dropped the title.
        His clothes have always been popular with entertainers like Lena Horne, Bianca Jagger and Faye Dunaway. Women who modeled for him in the beginning include Marina Schiano, who now works for Vanity Fair magazine and who introduced him to Elsa Peretti, who later won fame for her jewelry designs.
        ''In the beginning, none of us had a penny,'' he once recalled. ''We shared our food. The girls would come and fit the clothes for me at night, after their other jobs.''
        He had a dream of ''architects and fashion designers working together in a studio, sharing their thoughts, and developing a decided style'' like the Bauhaus in Vienna early in this century. Two years ago he moved his design studio from 57th Street to a large loft on lower Broadway to provide enough space for design experiments in fashion and home furnishings.
        He is survived by a brother, Hector Imperatrice of Rosario, Argentina.
        Correction:  September 2, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Thursday about a fashion designer gave his first name incorrectly in some copies. He was Giorgio Sant'Angelo.
      