
       E. Hugh Luckey, former president of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died of lung cancer Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        E. Hugh Luckey, former president of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died of lung cancer Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Luckey was president of the medical center from 1966 to 1977. He also was vice president for medical affairs at Cornell University and vice president of the Society of New York Hospital. He retired in 1977, but continued a clinical practice and medical consulting.
        As president, he was involved in planning, and fund-raising for the hospital and college and for affiliated institutions like Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, the Hospital for Special Surgery and North Shore University Hospital. In his last four years, he headed a successful campaign to acquire air rights over East River Drive and connecting side streets, making possible the site of the C. V. Starr Pavilion. Established Coronary-Care Unit
        Dr. Luckey began his career at Cornell University Medical College as an assistant in medicine. He was a Niles Fellow in medicine, doing research on abnormal blood protein. He was dean of the medical college from 1954 to 1957. From 1957 to 1966, he was chairman of the department of medicine. In this period, he and his associates established one of the first coronary care units in a university hospital. He was physician-in-chief of New York Hospital from 1957 to 1966.
        Dr. Luckey was born in Jackson, Tenn. and graduated from Union University. He received his medical degree from Vanderbilt University in 1944. He served in the Army Air Force from 1946 to 1948. On his return, he was appointed director of the Cornell Medical Division at Bellevue Hospital.
        He is survived by a brother, Dr. C. Freeman, of Florence, Ala.; four children: Linda Ann Firger of Ridgefield, Conn., John W., of Fredericksburg, Va., James H., of East Northport, L.I., and Robert P., of White Plains, and eight grandchildren.
      