
       Pierre Matisse, the internationally known art dealer who was the longtime champion of Joan Miro, Marc Chagall, Jean Dubuffet, Balthus and Yves Tanguy in the United States, died Wednesday in a hospital near his home in St.-Jean-Cap-Ferrat, France, after a stroke. He was 89 years old.
        Pierre Matisse, the internationally known art dealer who was the longtime champion of Joan Miro, Marc Chagall, Jean Dubuffet, Balthus and Yves Tanguy in the United States, died Wednesday in a hospital near his home in St.-Jean-Cap-Ferrat, France, after a stroke. He was 89 years old.
        Known worldwide for his sense of quality, his reserve, his perseverance and his horror of personal publicity, Mr. Matisse had what might have seemed to be the ideal entree to his profession. The son of Henri Matisse, one of France's greatest artists, he had been constantly around both the house and the studio in Issy-les-Moulineaux, near Paris, in the years before 1914 when his father was producing one masterpiece after another. In more than one of those paintings, he played a conspicuous role.
        But when he came to the United States in 1925 to become an art dealer, it was with little encouragement from his father. (In 57 years at 41 East 57th Street he never had a Matisse exhibition.) 'End of an Era'
        Eugene Victor Thaw, the collector and former dealer, said of Mr. Matisse yesterday: ''It may be a cliche, but this is truly the end of an era, both in art dealing and in taste. Matisse personified the best of the judgment that brought great European modernist art to the States, and his name stood for a standard of quality that is now a thing of the past.
        ''He was a man of unerring eye, even in areas outside the field in which he specialized. In the heyday of his gallery and in his own house, there were always unexpected things - above all, wonderful examples of pre-Colombian art and tribal art of all kinds. In his way of merging European art with tribal art, he harked back to the early days of modernist collecting.''
        Mr. Matisse began small, selling prints through E. Weyhe Inc. on Lexington Avenue and learning the trade at the Valentine Dudensing Gallery. When he opened under his own name on East 57th Street in 1932, it was in one tiny room at the top of the building. Visitors were few, and initially he was often too shy even to speak to them.
        Gradually he moved down the building to his eventual quarters on the fourth floor. Yet in the Depression year of 1932 when he held the first of the 37 Miro exhibitions he was to mount, the public was slow to respond. But as with his exhibitions of Balthus (7 in all), Chagall (16), Dubuffet (12), Giacometti (5) and Yves Tanguy (7), Mr. Matisse had faith in his artists and in himself. Later years proved him right, as one masterpiece after another was sold from his gallery to American collections, public and private, He Helped the Modern William Rubin, formerly director of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, said yesterday: ''Pierre Matisse was the great American dealer of the European Surrealist generation that came of age in the late 1920's and 30's. Considering his importance, he was remarkably unconcerned with his own image. He identified from the beginning with the vanguard generation that was also his own generation. He did not only show their work. He bought it, outright, in the traditional French style of an older generation.
        ''As a friend of the Museum of Modern Art, he gave the museum the collection of his second wife, Patricia. He also gave many things himself, and he was instrumental in our being able to buy from the Matisse family the great early painting 'Notre Dame, 1914' and two great, late cut-paper works, the 'Souvenir d'Oceanie' and the ''Swimming Bath.' ''
        Pierre Matisse was born on June 13, 1900, in Bohain in northern France. He was the younger of two sons of Henri Matisse, the painter, sculptor, draftsman and printmaker, and of his wife, the former Amelie Noemie Parayre. In school in Paris, his only rival in insubordination was his classmate Yves Tanguy, the future Surrealist painter whom he was to represent in New York from 1939 on. In 1918 he was called up for the French Army but did not see active service. Efforts to make a painter of him, under the aegis of the painter Andre Derain, proved unsuccessful, as had his father's earlier attempt to turn him into a virtuoso on the violin. Looking After His Artists
        Once set on the path that was to make him famous, he never lost the tenacity with which he had always looked after the interests of his artists. Even when they were no longer living, he missed nothing that concerned them. In 1987, when Chagall had his first major exhibition in Moscow in many years, Mr. Matisse made the journey. And when major sculptures by Giacometti came up at auction in New York in 1988, he took a delight in bidding by telephone (and buying).
        In that regard, he never stopped. ''I got my strength from my artists,'' he said some years ago. ''Their strength came from nowhere and seemed to have no logical foundation. But if they had it, how could I not have it, too?''
        A naturalized American citizen since 1942, Mr. Matisse was made a chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters and later an officir of the Legion of Honor by the French Government. In 1987 he was awarded the freedom of the city of Venice on the occasion of a major Matisse exhibition there. He was also president of the Art Dealers Association of America from 1964 to 1966.
        In 1929 he married Alexina Sattler, who married Marcel Duchamp after their divorce. His second wife, Patricia O'Connell Kane, died in 1972, and in 1974 he married Maria-Gaetana von Spreti, who survives him. He is also survived by his daughter, Jacqueline Monnier, and by his sons Paul and Peter, the three children of his marriage to Alexina Sattler.
        His funeral will be on Monday in St.-Jean-Cap-Ferrat. A memorial service in New York is to be announced in the fall.
      