
       Nathan G. Finkelstein, the chairman of the board of Glemby International, which operates more than 1,600 beauty salons around the world, died of lung cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Nathan G. Finkelstein, the chairman of the board of Glemby International, which operates more than 1,600 beauty salons around the world, died of lung cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The company that Mr. Finkelstein headed for more than 40 years has sales of more than $250 million a year. But in this country, the name Glemby rarely appears above the door; although the stylists, colorists and manicurists are all Glemby employees, the salons are generally known by the department store or specialty store in which they are found.
        Glemby made that point in an advertisement it ran in 1980 under the headline, ''I found someone who really understands me. You can find your someone in your department/specialty beauty salon.'' Then it listed the stores.
        The list now includes the salons at Bergdorf Goodman, where Glemby operates the Sergio Valente salon, and at Sears, Roebuck & Company, where Glemby runs Shears at Sears. Company Founded in 1883
        Mr. Finkelstein joined Glemby after World War II. His father, Morris, had been a partner with several Glemby brothers in a hair goods importing company founded in 1883. For a long time, the company's main business was in handmade hair nets. In 1942, the company divided and the senior Mr. Finkelstein retained the Glemby name and its salon division.
        When Mr. Finkelstein went to work at Glemby, it was operating 105 salons, mainly in the United States. Mr. Finkelstein expanded the company's business overseas and in department store beauty salons in this country.
        In 1963, Mr. Finkelstein arranged a partnership with Kenneth Battelle when the popular hairstylist - known to his customers as Kenneth - opened his town-house salon on East 54th Street. Kenneth later became a vice president and fashion director of Glemby.
        Mr. Finkelstein, who was born in Manhattan, graudated from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in 1934 and received his law degree from Harvard in 1937, where he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review. He practiced law for a year with the Manhattan law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler.
        He was a lieutenant commander in the Navy during World War II, serving in the Pacific, and was also a war crimes investigator.
        He is survived by his wife, Lola; three daughters, Ellen Meckler of Manhattan; Barbara Mutterperl of Bethesda, Md., and Amy Diamond of Manhattan; a son, David, of Upper Saddle River, N.J.; two brothers, Seymour, of Scarsdale, N.Y., who is the president of Glemby, and Emanuel, of Great Neck, L.I., and 11 grandchildren.
        The funeral service will be private.
      