
       Representative Mickey Leland, whose burned and crumpled plane was found scattered on a forested mountainside of Ethiopia today, died as he had lived, trying to end world hunger.
        Representative Mickey Leland, whose burned and crumpled plane was found scattered on a forested mountainside of Ethiopia today, died as he had lived, trying to end world hunger.
        He was 44 years old and one of the most prominent black legislators in Congress, where he served for 10 years.
        In a statement released by the White House, President Bush said, ''Mickey Leland and the other members of his traveling party, both Americans and Ethiopians, were engaged in a noble cause - trying to feed the hungry.''
        ''His was a mission,'' House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said, ''which, as we all know all too well now, was fraught with potential danger. None of us will forget the dedication and commitment that took Mickey and his colleagues on the trip.'' 'A Skeleton of a Person'
        The Texas Democrat often said his commitment to ending hunger was rooted in a trip he had made to the Sudan in 1984, where he had watched a young girl die before his eyes.
        The child ''looked to be about 70 or 80 years old,'' he said in a 1985 interview, ''a skeleton of a person with a thin layer of brown skin on her, who had just a faint breath of life in her.''
        Mr. Leland said he turned to ask a relief worker about the girl and, ''While I was talking to him, she died. I can see her face right now. Every day I see her face.''
        Mr. Leland visited Ethiopia and the Sudan five more times. The trip that ended with his death was his second there this year. He often met with Lieut. Col. Menguistu Haile Mariam of Ethiopia, whose Marxist government has generally not been friendly with the United States. Visited Cuba and Vietnam
        Africa was not the only place he visited. He met with Fidel Castro a dozen times, saying that although he disagreed with President Castro's ''fundamental ideology,'' he respected the Cuban leader ''for his intellect.'' On a visit to Cuba last October, Mr. Leland negotiated the release of three political prisoners and their families.
        Last July, Mr. Leland flew to Vietnam and returned with three children whose father had fled Vietnam and moved to Houston.
        Mr. Leland first ran for public office in 1972, when he was elected to the State Legislature. With his afro haircut, platform shoes, leather shoulder bag and vibrantly colored dashiki, he was a jolt to the conservative Texas body.
        After the election, Mr. Leland visited Africa for the first time.
        ''I got lost in Africa,'' he said in a 1972 interview with Seeds magazine, produced by an anti-hunger organization. He said he had expected to spend three weeks in Tanzania, but instead spent three months, and became so absorbed in what he was doing that he failed to call home and tell his family of his change in plans.
        ''Nobody knew where I was,'' he said in the Seeds interview. ''My mother thought I was dead. But the fact is that I got totally absorbed in Africa.'' Penchant for Unusual Causes
        He was elected to Congress in 1978 to represent the 18th Congressional District, filling the seat vacated by Barbara Jordan when she retired. By that time he had switched to business suits. But he had not abandoned his penchant for unusual causes.
        One of the first programs he founded as a Congressman sent poor, black teen-agers from Houston to Israel for six weeks to learn about Jewish culture and heritage, as part of an effort to bridge the gap between blacks and Jews. Mr. Leland, himself a Roman Catholic, once bicycled through Israel and often quoted the Talmud, saying, ''If you save one life, you save the whole world.''
        It took five years to implement another of his ideas: the creation of the House Select Committee on World Hunger. He faced opposition from some in the House who argued that yet another select committee was a waste of money, and by others who saw it as an infringement on the turf of existing committees.
        But in the spring of 1984 the committee was formed, after Mr. Leland rallied support from hunger groups and celebrities, and the Texas Congressman became its chairman. It was near the height of the Ethiopian famine, and the United States $800 million in aid the following fiscal year to Ethiopia. Chastised TV Networks
        Mr. Leland also served twice as chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. And as a member of the Energy and Commerce subcommittee on telecommunications, he chastised television networks for a lack of black representation on and off the air. He specifically asked the producers of the show ''Dynasty'' why there were no black actors, and, a year later, Diahann Carroll and Billy Dee Williams joined the show.
        Mr. Leland had his share of critics in Congress and in Houston, most of whom said he was too liberal and that he should concentrate on the hungry people in the United States before he tackled the problems of Africa.
        In April, after a trip to the Sudan, he responded to such criticism by saying: ''I am as much a citizen of this world as I am of my country. To hell with those people who are critical of what I am able to do to help save people's lives. I don't mean to sound hokey but I grew up on a Christian ethic which says we are supposed to help the least of our brothers.'' Popular at Home
        But he remained popular in his home district, where he supported food and housing programs for the homeless. He won re-election to his Congressional seat five times, each by overwhelming majorities. In 1988 he received a strong primary challenge from Elizabeth Spates, a school board member in Houston, who charged that he had lost touch with his constituents while seeking national exposure.
        For that, he apologized. ''There's people I've not touched for a long time,'' he said at the time. ''I have been on the road quite a bit.''
        Mr. Leland supported Walter Mondale in the 1984 Presidential primary over the Rev. Jesse Jackson, angering many blacks. But he and Mr. Jackson later made their political peace. In 1988 Mr. Leland was a top fund-raiser for the Jackson campaign. On a campaign stop in Houston, Mr. Jackson, praised ''the constant stream of humanity in Mickey Leland.''
        The Congressman was born George Thomas Leland in Lubbock, Tex., on Nov. 27, 1944, but never used his given name. Instead he went by Mickey, a nickname coined by his grandfather.
        His father abandoned the family soon after, and his mother, a short-order cook who went on to become a teacher, moved the family to Houston. Mr. Leland spent most of his earlier life living in Houston's impoverished Fifth Ward, which he eventually came to represent in Congress.
        Mr. Leland graduated from Texas Southern University in 1970, with a degree in pharmacy, a profession he practiced and taught for two years before entering politics.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Alison Walton, an investment banker whom he married in 1984. Mrs. Leland is two months pregnant. He is also survived by his mother, Alice Rains, and a 3-year-old son, Jarret David.
        Memorial services are being planned at churches throughout Houston, and funeral arrangements have not yet been made.
      