
       Representative Smith spent most of his life in law enforcement and emerged in his first seven months in Congress as a specialist on the drug problem.
        Representative Smith spent most of his life in law enforcement and emerged in his first seven months in Congress as a specialist on the drug problem.
        Mr. Smith began his first term in the House in January. He was the sort of affable young Southerner on whom the Republicans were building their hopes to become the dominant party in the South, not only in Presidential election, but also in Congress and at the state and local levels.
        ''Larkin, in his short tenure, made many new friends,'' said Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the House Republican leader. ''He had a genuine nature and an honest, open approach to his role and his colleagues.''
        John Buckley, the communications director of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said Mr. Smith ''threw every stereotype of the Southern sheriff on its head, because he was an extremely gracious and friendly fellow.'' In Law Enforcement 23 Years
        Born on June 26, 1944, in Poplarville, Miss., Larkin Smith received his bachelor's degree at the age of 34 from William Carey College in Hattiesburg. He began his career in law enforcement in 1966 as a sheriff's deputy in Pearl River County and worked his way up through the ranks. He served as Police Chief in Gulfport from August 1977 to December 1983 before becoming Sheriff of Harrison County.
        As sheriff, Mr. Smith was particularly concerned with the drug issue, and headed a committee of Federal, state and local officials coordinating efforts to seize drugs in the Gulf of Mexico.
        Mr. Smith combined what Republican strategists are seeking in their Southern candidates - a conservative political philosophy and the image of a young reformer. He defeated the incumbent sheriff in a voter revolt against scandals that surrounded the Harrison County Sheriff's Department. ''He restored credibility to the Harrison County Sheriff's Department,'' said Senator Lott, Mississippi's junior Republican Senator, ''and used creative thinking to modernize it.'' Relatively Safe Seat
        It was Mr. Lott's decision to run for the Senate that opened up the Fifth Congressional district seat for Mr. Smith, and he won it easily.
        With a relatively safe seat, Mr. Smith could look forward to a long Congressional career, and he secured seats on both the Judiciary Committee and the Government Operations Committee. Mr. Smith was the only member of the House Judiciary Committee who was not a lawyer.
        In his brief time in Congress, Mr. Smith took a particular interest in the issue that had preoccupied him in law enforcement, the war on drugs. Mr. Lott noted that Mr. Smith had already begun to fight against the dispersion of authority on the drug issue among 60 House committees and subcommittees.
        Mr. Smith was also a firm opponent of gun control.
        Representative G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery, a Mississippi Democrat who had joined Mr. Smith at the opening ceremonies of the baseball series in Hattiesburg on Sunday, said: ''He was so happy and enjoying being a member of Congress. He was doing a super job as a member. He had emerged as one of the real leaders in the freshman class of the 101st Congress.
        ''Our last conversation at the series was talking about the loss of Congressman Leland,'' Mr. Montgomery told The Associated Press, ''and I told Larkin that he should be careful in traveling and performing his duties.''
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Sheila, a daughter, Tracy, and a grandson, Bryce.
      