
       Louis M. Thayer, who was a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for nine years after retiring as a rear admiral in the Coast Guard, died of a heart attack Aug. 9 at his home in St. Augustine, Fla. He was 82 years old and had lived in the Washington area for 25 years before moving to Florida last year.
        Louis M. Thayer, who was a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for nine years after retiring as a rear admiral in the Coast Guard, died of a heart attack Aug. 9 at his home in St. Augustine, Fla. He was 82 years old and had lived in the Washington area for 25 years before moving to Florida last year.
        Admiral Thayer's Coast Guard career spanned more than 30 years. At his retirement in 1967 he was commandant of the Seventh Coast Guard District with headquarters in Miami.
        As a member of the safety board from 1967 to 1976, he conducted investigations of a number of major air, railroad and bridge disasters.
        A native of Butte, Mont., he was a graduate of the Coast Guard Academy and the Armed Forces Staff College. Before World War II he commanded Coast Guard cutters. In the war he commanded destroyer escort divisions in the Atlantic and Pacific and was commander of the Coast Guard's antisubmarine warfare training center. Senior Posts After War
        After the war, Admiral Thayer held several senior posts, including commandant of reserve officer training schools in New London, Conn., and Yorktown, Va. In 1963 he was appointed reserve director for the Coast Guard.
        Two years later he became commandant of the Seventh District, and he headed the operation to rescue Cuban refugees from the waters between Cuba and Florida. He conducted the 1965 inquiry into the fire that destroyed the cruise ship Yarmouth Castle in which 84 lives were lost.
        As a volunteer, Admiral Thayer taught Spanish, English and mathematics to public school pupils in Prince William and Fairfax counties in Virginia and more recently worked at the Florida School for the Deaf and Blind in St. Augustine.
        Admiral Thayer's wife, the former Mignon Rehmann, died in 1987. He is survived by a son, Raymond, of Bethesda, Md.; three daughters, Mignon Upchurch of St. Augustine, Joanna Ross of Manhattan and Karen Innarorato of Haymarket, Va.; 15 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      