
       Robert B. Anderson, the Texas-born lawyer who was Secretary of the Treasury from 1957 to 1961, died Monday at New York Hospital, a hospital spokesman said yesterday.
        Robert B. Anderson, the Texas-born lawyer who was Secretary of the Treasury from 1957 to 1961, died Monday at New York Hospital, a hospital spokesman said yesterday.
        Mr. Anderson was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan in recent years. Since the 1950's he maintained homes in the New York area.  A son, Gerald L. Anderson, said yesterday that his father, who entered the hospital July 25, was suffering from cancer of the esophagus and died from complications after surgery. Conviction for Tax Evasion
        Mr. Anderson rose to influential positions in government, business and finance, serving as Navy Secretary, Deputy Secretary of Defense, and holding posts with major corporations. But his career became clouded in later years by a brief prison term for income tax evasion and operating an illegal offshore bank.
        In 1987 he was sentenced to one month in prison and five months' house arrest after pleading guilty in Federal District Court in Manhattan to the tax evasion in 1983 and 1984 and to the offshore bank charge.
        Last January, Mr. Anderson was disbarred by the Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court, which said the illegal banking had been unconscionable.
        Robert Anderson was a Democrat when he supported Dwight D. Eisenhower for President in 1952, but he switched parties in time for the 1956 elections and remained a Republican. He developed a reputation as a quiet and efficient administrator as Secretary of the Navy in 1953 and 1954 and as Deputy Secretary of Defense in 1954 and 1955, .
        Mr. Anderson became known as a conservative Treasury Secretary, putting a high priority on preserving the value of the dollar rather than cutting taxes or paying for additional outlays.
        As Treasury Secretary, he became highly influential within the Eisenhower Administration. It was on his recommendation that the President made an important decision concerning the budget for the fiscal year 1961, deciding that the projected surplus was to be used, not to cut taxes, but to pay off some of the national debt. Posts in Industry
        Before serving in the Eisenhower Administration, Mr. Anderson held various posts in Texas government. He resigned as Deputy Defense Secretary in 1955 to become president of Ventures Ltd., a Canadian holding company with farflung international interests, mainly in mining, until he was named Treasury Secretary.
        From 1961 to 1973 he was a limited partner in the New York-based investment banking firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Co. He also held other posts and directorships in business and finance and was an adviser to Phillips Petroleum, Texaco and other oil companies.
        He served as an economic adviser to the Sultan of Oman and worked as a Manhattan-based lobbyist and consultant for the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church.
        As Navy Secretary Mr. Anderson, at Eisenhower's behest, moved to end racial segregation at Navy posts in Charleston, S.C., and Norfolk, Va. Eisenhower wrote later that he felt gratitude and ''intense admiration'' for Mr. Anderson.
        The historian Stephen E. Ambrose, in a 1984 book on the Eisenhower Presidency, wrote that Mr. Anderson was Eisenhower's personal choice for his running mate as Vice-Presidential candidate in the 1956 election, but that Mr. Anderson rejected the idea.
        Mr. Ambrose, in the second volume of his biography ''Eisenhower,'' also wrote that Eisenhower urged Mr. Anderson to seek the Presidential nomination in 1960, but that Mr. Anderson said no.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Anderson carried out diplomatic tasks for President Lyndon B. Johnson, who was also a friend, including leading a commission that negotiated new treaties involving the Panama Canal.
        Two decades later, when Mr. Anderson was sentenced to the prison term by Judge Edmund L. Palmieri, he was also sentenced to five years' probation. Judge Palmieri directed him to make restitution to victims of the bank operation who had lost money on his advice. The judge said he was aware that Mr. Anderson had been hospitalized for alcoholism 10 times since 1981, and he ordered Mr. Anderson to enter an alcoholism treatment program.
        Mr. Anderson had pleaded guilty to evading taxes on more than $127,000 in income in 1983 and 1984 and operating an offshore bank in the British West Indies in which investors lost more than $4 million.
        A spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Gregory Bogdan, said yesterday in Washington said that Mr. Anderson had served his sentence in Federal Prison Camp at Allenwood, Pa., in August 1987. An official of the Federal Probation Office in Manhattan, Joseph Veltre, said yesterday that his house arrest was completed in January 1988.
        When he was disbarred by the Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court last January, the court order said: ''This is a sad but, we think, necessary end to the legal career of one who has in times less beclouded by poor and corrupt judgment served his country in high office.''
        A lawyer for Mr. Anderson suggested in court in 1987 that his client's mind might have been affected by the strain of caring for his wife, the former Ollie Mae Rawlings, who long suffered from Alzheimer's disease and died in 1987. They were married in 1935.
        In the years after Mr. Anderson left the Cabinet, his activities included serving as a partner in Robert B. Anderson & Company, an investment house, and as chairman of the American Gas & Chemical Company. Among the companies of which he was a director were Pan American World Airways and Goodyear Tire & Rubber.
        Robert Bernerd Anderson was born June 4, 1910, in Burleson, Tex., the son of a farmer. He graduated from Weatherford College in Weatherford, Tex., in 1927 and earned a bachelor of laws degree from the University of Texas in 1932. That same year he was elected to the Texas Legislature.
        In the 1930's he served variously as a Texas legislator, an assistant Texas attorney general, chairman of the Texas Unemployment commission, and state tax and racing commissioner. In World War II he was a civilian aide to the Army Secretary.
        In addition to his son Gerald, of Greenwich, Conn., Mr. Anderson is survived by two sisters, Ruth Smith of Godley, Tex., and Velma Pickens of Dallas; another son, James, of Austin, Tex., and and three grandchildren.
      