
       George A. Vaughn Jr., a World War I air ace who went on to become a founder of the New York Air National Guard and the College of Aeronautics, died of cancer Monday at New York Hospital. He was 92 years old and lived on Staten Island.
        George A. Vaughn Jr., a World War I air ace who went on to become a founder of the New York Air National Guard and the College of Aeronautics, died of cancer Monday at New York Hospital. He was 92 years old and lived on Staten Island.
        Mr. Vaughn was credited with shooting down 12 German planes and one balloon in 1917 and 1918.
        Mr. Vaughn, a student at Princeton when the United States entered the war, persuaded alumni to buy two Curtiss Jenny biplanes so that he and classmates could learn to fly.
        In September 1917 he was one of a group of 210 students who were sent to England for further training under British pilots. In May 1918 he was assigned to Squadron 84 of the Royal Air Force in France and later transferred to the 17th Aero Squadron of the United States Army Signal Corps. Given the Silver Star
        With only 90 hours in the air, flying British Camels and S. E.5A's, he scored his 13 victories and was made flight commander of the 17th Squadron. He was awarded Britain's Distinguished Flying Cross, the American Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star with two citations.
        After returning to Princeton to earn his bachelor's degree, Mr. Vaughn became a research engineer for Western Electric and later a sales engineer for Westinghouse.
        In 1932 he was an organizer of the Casey Jones School of Aeronautics, which became the College of Aeronautics, based at La Guardia Airport.
        Mr. Vaughn was one of a group of pilots who in 1921 formed the 27th Division Aviation Squadron, the first National Guard aviation unit in New York State. He commanded the squadron for nine years and retired in 1940 as a lieutenant colonel. Four years ago Gov. Mario M. Cuomo appointed him to the rank of brigadier general.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marion Perkins; two sons, George 3d, of Princeton, and James, of Riverside, Conn.; a daughter, Jane Love of Pittsburgh; 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      