
       Irvin S. Taubkin, director of public relations for The New York Times before his retirement in 1971, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where he was being treated for a fractured arm. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Irvin S. Taubkin, director of public relations for The New York Times before his retirement in 1971, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where he was being treated for a fractured arm. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Taubkin was also promotion director of The Times for many years and was a former president of the International Newspaper Promotion Association.
        He joined The Times as a clerk in 1926, but left in 1927 to take a job as a reporter for The Dallas Morning News. He also arranged to become a part-time local correspondent for The Times in Dallas.
        In 1934, he returned to The Times in the promotion department and within a few years had established himself as a leading newspaper copywriter. In 1940, The Times named him assistant promotion manager. Wrote for Stars & Stripes
        During World War II, he served in the Army as a reporter and copy editor for the London edition of Stars & Stripes.
        After the war, Mr. Taubkin became assistant promotion director of the Bureau of Advertising of the American Newspaper Publishers Association.
        He returned to The Times in 1947 as assistant promotion director. The following year, he was named promotion manager. In 1960, the paper appointed him promotion director and a few months later sent him to Paris as the executive in charge of its new International Edition. He returned to New York in 1961 to resume his duties in charge of promotion. When The Times established a public relations department in 1969, Mr. Taubkin was named its director.
        Mr. Taubkin, known as ''Tauby'' to Times staff members and to colleagues throughout the newspaper industry, was associated with many promotional campaigns that gained wide circulation. Perhaps the best known was the promotion for classified advertising of employment opportunities that featured the tag line, ''I got my job through The New York Times.''
        A native of New York City, Mr. Taubkin studied at the University of Wisconsin and at New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Kiyoko Tsuboi; a brother, Mark, of Brooklyn, and a sister, Mildred Peskin of Long Beach, L.I.
      