
       Berry Fleming, a noted novelist of the 1930's and 40's who made a dramatic literary comeback in recent years, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Augusta, Ga. He was 90 years old.
        Berry Fleming, a noted novelist of the 1930's and 40's who made a dramatic literary comeback in recent years, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Augusta, Ga. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Fleming's latest novel, ''Captain Bennett's Folly'' (The Permanent Press), was published recently and reviewed last month in The New York Times Book Review. The reviewer, Andy Solomon, the fiction editor of The Tampa Tribune, described it as a ''zesty comic novel,'' then expressed bewilderment at ''how so entertaining a writer as Berry Fleming, now aged 90 and the author of 19 books, could have been publishing since 1927 without yet finding the wide and appreciative audience he deserves.''
        Mr. Fleming was appreciated by many reviewers, including Orville Prescott of The Times, who in 1943 described him as ''one of the ablest of our Southern writers.'' Several of his books were chosen by the major book clubs, and one, ''Colonel Effingham's Raid'' - a satire published in 1943 about a retired Army colonel who writes a crusading column for a Georgia newspaper - was made into a motion picture with Charles Coburn and Joan Bennett. A Tactical Blunder
        In an interview two years ago in Publishers Weekly, Mr. Fleming suggested that a major reason for his relative obscurity was the result of a tactical blunder - namely, leaving his literary agent, Berenice Baungarten, the wife of the novelist James Gould Couzzens, soon after ''Colonel Effingham's Raid'' was accepted by the Book-of-the-Month Club.
        ''I felt it was foolish to pay her 10 pecent when I had done all the work,'' Mr. Fleming recalled. ''So I cut loose.'' Warned by Ms. Baungarten and his friends in the publishing world that he was making a mistake, Mr. Fleming told the interviewer, ''It didn't look like a mistake to me then, but it looks that way to me now.'' If he had stayed with his agent, he said, she would have sucessfully promoted his other books.
        A later novel, ''The Fortune Tellers,'' was a Literary Guild selection in 1951, but that and his subsequent books enjoyed only modest sales. As a result, Mr. Fleming stopped writing for almost 20 years to concentrate on painting. When he resumed writing, ''The Make Believers,'' published in 1973, also had small sales. When the commercial houses would no longer publish him, he and an Augusta newspaper publisher, Bill Harper, founded Cotton Lane Press to publish his books.
        Several years ago Mr. Fleming sent one of his novels, ''Siesta'' (1935), to Martin Shepard, the president of Second Chance Press of Sag Harbor, N.Y., which reprints literary works in hard cover. Mr. Shepard reissued ''Siesta'' in 1987, and has since reissued four other Fleming books, including ''Colonel Effingham's Raid'' and ''To the Market Place.'' New Novel Due Next Year
        In addition, the Permanent Press, of which Mr. Shepard is also president, this year published ''Captain Bennett's Folly'' and ''Who Dwelt by a Churchyard.'' Next year it will publish another new novel by Mr. Bennett, while Second Chance Press will reprint ''The Winter Rider,'' a novel published in the mid-1960's. In 1991, the Permanent Press will issue a new Fleming novel and a new collection of short stories.
        Mr. Fleming was born in Augusta on March 19, 1899. He graduated from Harvard in 1922, and after working as a reporter in Augusta for a year moved to New York, where he published his first novel in 1927, ''The Conqueror's Stone.'' He also wrote for magazines, including Punch, the satirical British magzine. After spending 18 months in France in the early 1930's, he and his wife returned to New York, then moved to Georgia in 1938. In addition to writing novels, Mr. Fleming wrote a weekly newspaper column for some years and also wrote three books about colonial Georgia.
        He is survived by a daughter, Shirley Fleming, of Manhattan, the editor in chief of Musical America magazine.
        There will be a graveside service Monday, at Summerville Cemetery in Augusta. Burial will take place immediately afterward.
      