
       John M. Bright, a co-author of the 1931 film ''The Public Enemy,'' which helped establish a new genre of gangster movies, died after a stroke Thursday in Kaiser Hospital in Panorama City, Calif. He was 81 years old and lived in West Hollywood.
        John M. Bright, a co-author of the 1931 film ''The Public Enemy,'' which helped establish a new genre of gangster movies, died after a stroke Thursday in Kaiser Hospital in Panorama City, Calif. He was 81 years old and lived in West Hollywood.
        In 1931 Mr. Bright and Kubec Glasmon - former Chicago newspaper reporters - wrote five stories that were made into films, beginning with ''The Public Enemy,'' which made James Cagney a star. The others were ''Smart Money,'' ''Blonde Crazy,'' ''Taxi'' and ''The Crowd Roars.''
        Writing in ''The International Dictionary of Films and Filmmakers,'' Steve Hanson described ''Public Enemy'' as ''one of the first of the gangster genre to examine the sociological roots of crime in a serious way.'' The film included a memorable scene in which Cagney mashed a grapefruit into the face of the actress Mae Clarke.
        In 1932, the Bright-Glasmon collaboration ''Three on a Match'' was filmed with a cast that included Bette Davis, Joan Blondell and another emerging star, Humphrey Bogart.
        Other screenplays by Mr. Bright included ''Glamour for Sale'' (1940), ''I Walk Alone'' (1948), ''Close-Up'' (1949) and ''The Brave Bulls'' (1950). One of the Blacklisted
        Mr. Bright was one of 10 founders of the Screen Writers Guild in 1933. In the early 1950's, when the House Committee on Un-American Activities was investigating what it termed Communist subversion of motion picture production, Mr. Bright moved to Mexico to avoid Congressional scrutiny and was subsequently blacklisted.
        After his return to the United States in 1958 he wrote magazine articles and plays and began working on independent projects, including his memoirs.
        ''Brooklyn, U.S.A.,'' a play he wrote in 1941 with a New York newspaper reporter, Asa Bordages, was based on the killing of a longshoreman by the gangster organization called Murder Inc.
        In 1930, while still in Chicago, Mr. Bright wrote, ''Hizzoner Big Bill Thompson,''a biography of the city's Mayor, William Hale Thompson.
        Mr. Bright is survived by his wife, Serena Da Silva, and two sons, John Lawrence, of Rolling Hills, Calif., and Casey Alexander, of Redondo Beach, Calif.
      