
       Bertram Dalley Tallamy, an engineer who supervised billions of dollars in highway construction for the Federal Government and for New York State, died of kidney failure Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 87 years old and lived in Washington.
        Bertram Dalley Tallamy, an engineer who supervised billions of dollars in highway construction for the Federal Government and for New York State, died of kidney failure Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 87 years old and lived in Washington.
        As superintendent of public works in New York State in the early 1950's, Mr. Tallamy supervised construction of what became the 559-mile Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway. He later became Federal Highway Administrator during the Eisenhower Administration. At that time, Commerce Secretary Sinclair Weeks described Mr. Tallamy as ''one of the world's greatest builders of roads.''
        He was an outdoorsman and an ardent opponent of highway billboards. Wherever possible, he designed highways to take advantage of scenic views.
        ''I enjoy engineering because it creates things for people,'' he said in a 1966 interview. ''It enables people to have greater opportunity for work and travel and enjoyment.'' Named Superintendent in 1948
        Mr, Tallamy was born in Plainfield, N.J. on Dec. 1, 1901. He received a degree in civil engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1925. He spent the early part of his career in Buffalo as a field engineer with George C. Diehl Inc., and later formed the consulting engineering firm of Sheehan, Fretts & Tallamy. He was also deputy chief engineer for the Niagara Frontier Planning Board and directed the planning of what is now the Buffalo-Niagara Falls section of the Thruway.
        Mr. Tallamy was named deputy superintendent of the New York State Department of Public Works in 1935 by Governor Dewey. Two years later, he became chief engineer. In 1948, he was named superintendent and was given responsibility for the upkeep of 14,000 miles of state roads and for all state highway construction projects.
        When the New York State Thruway Authority was created in 1960, he was its chairman, supervising construction of the highway connecting New York City and Buffalo, including more than 600 small bridges and the three-mile Tappan Zee Bridge.
        In 1956, he was named Federal Highway Administrator and directed the initial construction of 41,000 miles of interstate highway.
        He resigned in 1961 and became a consulting engineer in Washington. In 1966, he proposed construction of a bridge across Long Island Sound that would link Long Island and Connecticut. He retired in 1970.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Doris Fisk; a son, Bertram, of Burgess, Va.; a sister, Louise Millward, of Lakewood, N.J., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 25, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Tuesday about Bertram D. Tallamy misstated the year he became superintendent of the New York State Department of Public Works. It was 1945, not 1935.
      