
       David R. Loxton, a producer of documentaries and other programs for public television, died of pancreatic cancer on Wednesday morning at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        David R. Loxton, a producer of documentaries and other programs for public television, died of pancreatic cancer on Wednesday morning at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Loxton joined the production staff of WNET, the major New York public-television affiliate, in 1966. In 1972, he created the Television Lab, which presented the work of independent film makers like Nam June Paik and of the choreographer Twyla Tharp, who has worked with video.
        In addition to serving as the director of the Television Lab from 1972 through 1984, Mr. Loxton developed the Nonfiction TV series, which presented such works as ''Paul Jacobs and the Nuclear Gang,'' ''I Remember Harlem'' and ''The Times of Harvey Milk.'' Mr. Loxton was the executive producer of Nonfiction TV from 1978 through 1983.
        Mr. Loxton was the executive producer of programs for the ''Great Performances,'' ''NET Playhouse'' and ''American Playhouse'' series. Received Many Awards
        He received many honors, including an Academy Award for ''The Times of Harvey Milk'' (1985), Emmy Awards for that documentary as well as for ''The Police Tapes'' (1977), ''Paul Jacobs and the Nuclear Gang'' (1979) and ''Third Avenue: Only the Strong Survive'' (1980), and Du Pont/Columbia Awards for ''Lord of the Universe'' (1974), ''The Police Tapes'' (1977), ''I Remember Harlem'' (1982) and ''Pesticide and Pills'' (1982).
        In 1985, he won an ACE. award, cable television's equivalent of an Emmy, for best original drama, for ''Countdown to Looking Glass,'' about a United States-Soviet confrontation in the Middle East. He was co-executive producer, with Frederick Barzyk, of the program.
        ''It's very hard to put together projects in public television, and he had the resources and drive to put them together and the skill to produce them,'' Arnold Labaton, a senior vice president of WNET and director of the station's production center, said yesterday. ''He also had a great talent for working with others. He did it with immense tact and judgment.'' A British Citizen
        Most recently, Mr. Loxton was director of drama for the ''Great Performances'' series and senior executive producer for specials, both at WNET. He was executive producer of ''Tales From the Hollywood Hills,'' a critically acclaimed series shown under the auspices of ''Great Performances.'' When he became ill, he had just begun production of ''Childhood,'' a six-part documentary for the Public Broadcasting Service.
        Mr. Loxton, a British citizen, was born in Kingston, Ontario, and grew up in England. He is survived by his wife, Pamela, and two sons William and Charles, all of Manhattan; his father, William, of Ruscombe, Berkshire, and a brother, Peter, of London.
      