
       Kenneth McMillan, the prolific charactor actor with a burly policeman's demeanor who won critical praise for his often lovable performances, died of liver disease Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 56 years old and lived in Studio City, Calif.
        Kenneth McMillan, the prolific charactor actor with a burly policeman's demeanor who won critical praise for his often lovable performances, died of liver disease Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 56 years old and lived in Studio City, Calif.
        Mr. McMillan's last film was the new comedy ''Three Fugitives,'' in which he played a dotty veterinarian. The Touchstone Pictures movie also stars Nick Nolte, Martin Short and James Earl Jones. and is to be released Jan. 27.
        Mr. McMillan appeared in more than two dozen other feature films, nine made-for-television movies, three television series and countless episodes of dramatic series. Tough Looks and Humanity
        ''His tough looks belied the underlying humanity he brought to all his acting,'' said Joseph Papp, founder of the New York Shakespeare Festival, for which Mr. McMillan played many roles, including in ''Henry IV, Part I'' (as Falstaff), ''Merry Wives of Windsor,'' ''Where Do We Go From Here?'' and ''Kid Champion.'' Mr. McMillan also played the boozy old sergeant, Rooney, in Mr. Papp's original production of ''Streamers,'' directed by Mike Nichols.
        Among his most memorable film roles were Frank Crotty, a cheerfully crooked detective in ''True Confessions,'' and Willie Conklin, the bigoted beer-bellied fire chief in ''Ragtime.''
        Mr. McMillan's other films included ''Dune,'' ''Eyewitness,'' ''Reckless,'' ''The Pope of Greenwich Village,'' ''Runaway Train'' and ''Protocol.'' He made his movie debut in a small role as a cafeteria owner in ''Serpico'' in 1973.
        The contrast between Mr. McMillan's demeanor and his gentle performances ''was a contradiction that was always present in his acting and always surprising,'' Mr. Papp said. ''It's amazing how he could make audiences feel for him.''
        On Broadway, Mr. McMillan appeared in ''Borstal Boy'' and in the original production of David Mamet's ''American Buffalo,'' in which he played Donny Dubrow, the junk-shop owner. His Off Broadway performances included ''Weekends Like Other People,'' for which he won an Obie in 1982 as well as ''Red Eye of Love,'' and ''Moonchildren.'' When He Became an Actor
        He was nearly 30 when he won his first major theater acting job and ''that was an advantage, since he brought all his life experience with him,'' Mr. Papp said. ''He went through a lot in his life and managed to hold himself up by the bootstraps.''
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. McMillan attended the High School for the Performing Arts in Manhattan. Upon graduation, he tried to find acting roles while working as a salesman at Gimbels in Manhattan. He was promoted to section manager, and then floor superintendent, and was managing three floors at Gimbels when he auditioned for a play on his lunch hour one day in 1960.
        When the department store would not give him a leave of absence, he joined a touring production of ''Sweet Bird of Youth.''
        Subsequently, he acted in soap operas, worked Off Broadway and did regional theater until he landed his first full-time Hollywood acting assignment in the role of Jack Doyle, Valerie Harper's boss on the ''Rhoda'' television series.
        Mr. McMillan is survived by his wife, Kathryn, a former dancer on Broadway, and a daughter, Allison, an actress.
        A memorial service is to be held at 1 P.M. on Jan. 29 at the Debbie Reynolds Studio in Burbank, Calif., where Mr. McMillan taught acting classes.
      