
       Friends, colleagues and admirers assembled at New York University yesterday to commemorate Sidney Hook, the philosopher, author and social critic who died on July 12 at the age of 86.
        Friends, colleagues and admirers assembled at New York University yesterday to commemorate Sidney Hook, the philosopher, author and social critic who died on July 12 at the age of 86.
        If a single theme emerged from the score or so of brief speeches, it was that Professor Hook, who taught in the N.Y.U. philosophy department for 40 years, never wavered in the many battles he waged.
        Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the former chief delegate to the United Nations, quoted from a sentence of Professor Hook's that, she said, summed up his philosophy of engagement in practical issues: ''If there is any ethical injunction valid for all periods, it is awareness in action.''
        ''Sidney felt we had an obligation to think clearly and to act,'' she said. An Unspeakable Thing
        He also believed, she said, that when totalitarianism occurred, it was very likely because good men lacked the courage and conviction to stand up against it. He viewed totalitarianism of either the left or the right as the ultimate unspeakable thing.
        The service, attended by several hundred people, was evidence of Professor Hook's friendships with people from across the political spectrum who often regarded each other as intellectual adversaries. There were labor leaders like Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; civil rights workers like Norman Hill, president of the A. Phillip Randolph Institute, and leading conservative writers like Norman Podhoretz.
        Professor Hook, who was born in 1902 in Brooklyn, was a student of John Dewey, the founder of the school of pragmatism in American philosophy. He went on, as a teacher and a polemicist, to involve himself in virtually all the intellectual quarrels that engulfed the nation. He was among the first New York Marxists to break with Communism; he fought against isolationism and disarmament, and was generally seen as a conservative in foreign affairs, although he considered himself a socialist in domestic affairs. 'Consequences on Real People'
        ''Sidney Hook was steadfast in his belief that all ideas must be tested by their consequences on real people in the real world,'' Mr. Kirkland said.
        Professor Hook believed that the remarks of an adversary should always be answered, which explains the thousands of letters and articles that he wrote on hundreds of subjects, from Marxism to voluntary euthanasia, of which he was an advocate.
        There were also dozens of books, the last of them an autobiography titled ''Out of Step'' that chronicles his participation in the century's debates. But, as Paul Kurtz, a philosopher and former student, noted, he was also a skillful organizer. Advocacy of Freedom
        In 1950, for example, he helped organize the Congress for Cultural Freedom to combat what the group considered to be Communist-led intellectual fronts. But, despite his anti-Communism, he was a severe critic of Senator Joe McCarthy.
        Many speakers noted that Professor Hook's advocacy of freedom as the prime value had been vindicated in recent times, even in the Eastern bloc countries. The old argument, one combatted vigorously by Professor Hook, was that freedom is a costly luxury that the poor can ill afford.
        But, Melvin Lasky, the editor of Encounter magazine, pointed to an essay called ''Bread and Freedom'' in which Professor Hook argued: ''If liberty is abandoned, you will have neither liberty nor bread.''
        Striking a similar theme, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan said Professor Hook, in his defense of democracy, allowed that his wisdom was not original. But, the New York Democrat went on, quoting Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, ''Sometimes the understanding of the obvious is more important than the understanding of the obscure, especially when the obvious counts.''
        ''It fell to him,'' Mr. Moynhian said of Professor Hook, ''to defend the obvious against the most nefarious challenges that mankind has ever contrived. What Sidney Hook defended became obvious and it became obvious throughout the world. And that, I submit to you, is the mark of a mensh.''
      