
       Richard Barr, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, died of liver failure yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Mr. Barr, who as a producer brought to the stage the works of Edward Albee, Samuel Beckett and many other playwrights, was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Richard Barr, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, died of liver failure yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Mr. Barr, who as a producer brought to the stage the works of Edward Albee, Samuel Beckett and many other playwrights, was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He had been suffering from the HIV virus associated with AIDS, said Shirley Herz, his press spokesman.
        Mr. Barr had been president of the league for 21 years. ''He was one of the great independent and creative producers, and he presided over the league during the period of its greatest growth and expansion,'' Harvey Sabinson, the league's executive director, said yesterday.
        ''Richard Barr was part of the dream we began with when we were young and building Off Broadway,'' said Colleen Dewhurst, the president of Actors' Equity. ''Somehow, through everything, Richard managed to stay with the spirit that we began with, so that in the end, to see Richard was to remember the dream.''
        ''He was my mentor and one of my dearest friends,'' Mr. Albee said. ''I shall miss him greatly.'' Produced First Albee Plays
        Mr. Barr brought Mr. Albee to the attention of the American public by co-producing the playwright's first works, ''The Zoo Story,'' ''The American Dream'' and ''The Death of Bessie Smith.'' He also produced Mr. Albee's first major Broadway success, ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.'' His theatrical relationship with Mr. Albee lasted many years, and he had been planning to present the most recent Albee work, ''Marriage Play,'' on Broadway.
        In producing ''Virginia Woolf'' in 1962, Mr. Barr did what not many others had done: he gave the show preview performances on Broadway rather than having an out-of-town tryout. After the hugely successful advance showings of ''Virginia Woolf,'' the preview soon became a way of theatrical life on Broadway, and Mr. Barr and his co-producer, Clinton Wilder, were credited with changing the way Broadway plays were produced.
        In 1960, Mr. Barr, with H. B. Lutz, created Theater 1960 and presented Mr. Albee's first American play, ''The Zoo Story,'' on a double bill with the Beckett play ''Krapp's Last Tape.''
        The following year Mr. Barr and Mr. Wilder joined forces in Theater 1961 (the company's name changed each year) to present Mr. Albee's ''American Dream'' and ''The Death of Bessie Smith.'' A year later, the two producers won the Tony Award for ''Virginia Woolf.'' A short time later Mr. Albee joined the producing team.
        In 1967, Mr. Barr was elected president of the League of New York Theaters, as the organization was then known. Errands for Orson Welles
        Richard Barr was born on Sept. 6, 1917, and grew up in Washington; his father built hotels and apartment buildings. He graduated in 1938 from Princeton University, where he acted in college plays. John Houseman, the co-director with Orson Welles of the Mercury Theater, saw him in the role of Falstaff, and hired him at no salary.
        ''I used to carry Orson's lunch from Longchamps up to the theater,'' Mr. Barr once recalled.
        In October 1938 Mr. Barr took part in the notorious Welles radio broadcast of ''The War of the Worlds,'' which had much of the country thinking that Earth was being invaded by Martians. He later went with Welles to Hollywood, where he was executive assistant on the filming of ''Citizen Kane.''
        During World War II, Mr. Barr served as a second lieutenant in the Air Force, working in the Motion Picture Unit in California. After the war he decided to forget about acting - ''I was terrible,'' he once recalled - and go into directing and producing.
        He directed Jose Ferrer in ''Volpone,'' Richard Whorf in ''Richard III'' and Francis Lederer in ''Arms and the Man.'' In the 1950's his Broadway productions, none particularly successful, included ''Hotel Paradiso,'' starring Bert Lahr; ''Fallen Angels,'' with Nancy Walker, and a triple bill called ''All in One'' that consisted of Leonard Bernstein's ''Trouble in Tahiti,'' a Paul Draper dance program, and Tennessee Williams's ''27 Wagons Full of Cotton.'' Went Off Broadway
        ''That's when I got fed up with it all and went Off Broadway,'' Mr. Barr said in the 60's. And he began with the presentation of ''The Zoo Story'' and ''Krapp's Last Tape.''
        ''I wanted to do that which was and is not possible to do on Broadway,'' he said in 1967. ''Give authority to the playwright. Turn the theater back to the playwright.''
        In the 1960's Mr. Barr, Mr. Albee and Mr. Wilder established the Playwrights Unit, a workshop for young American playwrights. Among the new work they presented was a double bill of one-act plays in 1965: ''Up to Thursday'' by Sam Shepard, then 21 years old, and ''Home Free!'' by Lanford Wilson, then 26.
        Other playwrights whose early plays Mr. Barr co-produced included William Hanley, Terrence McNally, Jack Richardson, John Guare, A. R. Gurney, LeRoi Jones, Jean-Claude Van Itallie and Paul Zindel. He also presented American premieres of works by Beckett and Ionesco. Many Other Albee Plays
        Works he co-produced include Mr. Beckett's ''Happy Days,'' Jack Richardson's ''Gallows Humor'' and William Hanley's ''Mrs. Dally Has a Lover'' and ''Whisper Into My Good Ear.'' He also presented many other Albee plays, including ''Tiny Alice,'' ''A Delicate Balance'' (which won a Pulitzer Prize), ''Seascape'' (which also won a Pulitzer), ''Everything in the Garden,'' ''Malcolm,'' ''All Over'' and ''The Lady From Dubuque.''
        In 1968 Mr. Wilder left the producing team. His place was taken by Charles Woodward. The next year Mr. Barr and Mr. Woodward produced ''The Boys in the Band,'' Mart Crowley's successful and groundbreaking drama about homosexuals. On Broadway in the 1970's, Mr. Barr was a co-producer of the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Sweeney Todd,'' which won the Tony Award as best musical in 1979.
        As president of the theater league, Mr. Barr presided in 1971 over a revolutionary change on Broadway: the shifting of the evening curtain time from 8:30 P.M. - where it had been for decades - to 7:30 P.M. By reducing the time between the end of the business day and the start of performances, and by having performances end an hour earlier, Broadway hoped to lure more business people and suburbanites to the theater. The matinee time was moved as well, from 2:30 to 2 P.M.
        The league declared the experiment a success, but restaurateurs were upset by the change to 7:30, and over the next few years most theaters moved their starting time to 8 P.M., where it remains.
        As president of the league, Mr. Barr also administered Broadway's annual Tony Awards, in conjunction with the American Theater Wing.
        Mr. Barr is survived by his mother, Ruth Baer, and two sisters, Carol Fischer and Barbara Luchs, all of Washington.
      