
       Maning Obregon, a fashion illustrator for more than 30 years, died last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 50 years old.
        Maning Obregon, a fashion illustrator for more than 30 years, died last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 50 years old.
        He died of respiratory failure, his brother Edmund said.
        Maning, as he was known, began his career in Paris at the age of 16 when he sketched hair styles for Maurice Franck, the hairdresser. He later covered the fashion openings in Paris, Rome, Milan and London for The New York Times and other publications, earning prominence for sketching clothes on the runway with lightning speed and for his sketches of well-known fashion personalities.
        He came to the attention of fashion designers in this country in the 1960's when his free-wheeling sketches reflected the informality of the clothes of that period. But he was also skilled in expressing the elegance of couture clothes by Valentino, Christian Dior, Scaasi and others. Illustrator for Stores
        Maning was an illustrator for Bonwit Teller and other fashion stores. He also staged fashion shows and trained models. ''He was a guru to our models,'' said Bonnie Kay, the owner of Select Model Management, an agency for which he served as a consultant for several years.
        Maning was born in Brooklyn to Martina and Manuel Obregon, who were natives of the Philippines. A decade ago he went to the Philippines to make custom clothes. Earlier he had designed a ready-to-wear collection for Milbo on Seventh Avenue.
        He returned from the Philippines a few years ago to resume his career as an illustrator. His clients included Seventeen magazine, Fendi and Leslie Faye.
        In addition to his brother Edmund, of Berkeley Heights, N.J., he is survived by his father, Manuel, who lives in the Philippines, two sisters, Renee Zulueta and Faye Johnson of Pittsburgh, and three other brothers: Reynaldo, of Hawaii; Antonio, of North Miami, Fla., and Valentine, of Montgomery, Ala.
      