
       Carl Hovgard, who founded the Research Institute of America, an advisory service for tax professionals, in 1935, was its president until 1967 and then concentrated on oil exploration in Texas and Oklahoma, died Friday at his retirement home in Carmel, Calif. He was 83 years old.  The institute sells analyses of legislation and regulatory activity that affects businesses.
        Carl Hovgard, who founded the Research Institute of America, an advisory service for tax professionals, in 1935, was its president until 1967 and then concentrated on oil exploration in Texas and Oklahoma, died Friday at his retirement home in Carmel, Calif. He was 83 years old.  The institute sells analyses of legislation and regulatory activity that affects businesses. It advised companies on ways to cope with and profit from government mobilization for World War II. It now publishes guides to technicalities in the tax laws which are unfamiliar to the average taxpayer but are read avidly by accountants and lawyers, and publishes economic analyses used by industry marketing experts. Partner in Law Press
        Mr. Hovgard also was a partner in the National Law Press of New York, which published the institute's materials.
        Mr. Hovgard was born in Parsons, Kan., on Oct. 1, 1905, and graduated in 1928 from what has since become Emporia State University in Kansas.
        After Mr. Hovgard founded his institute in New York, an early member of its editorial staff was a young law-school graduate named William J. Casey, who was later the Director of Central Intelligence.
        An enthusiastic yachtsman, Mr. Hovgard took honors in several prestigious races. He was a Class B winner in the 1954 Bermuda Yacht Race and skippered the Circe in a trans-Atlantic race in 1955. He also held a commercial pilot's license.
        He was a past president of the Union League Club in New York and past commodore of the American Yacht Club of Rye, N.Y. From 1954 to 1959 he owned the country's oldest yacht yard, Henry B. Nevins, on City Island in the Bronx.
        He began to buy petroleum and mineral properties in 1940 and became a principal of the Hovgard-Johnson Oil Company of Abilene, Tex., and the owner of Worthree Mines of Kingman, Ariz., a tungsten producer.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marjorie Goodbout; two brothers, John and Paul, and two sisters, Florence and Jean.
      