
       Ferdinand E. Marcos was as tough as he was debonair, and he came to rule the Philippines with an iron hand before popular unrest forced him to flee in 1986 after two decades in power.
        Ferdinand E. Marcos was as tough as he was debonair, and he came to rule the Philippines with an iron hand before popular unrest forced him to flee in 1986 after two decades in power.
        Mr. Marcos was first elected President in 1965 and converted his country's sputtering democratic system into a personal fief, with his luxury-loving wife, Imelda, as virtual co-ruler. He came to control most of the apparatus of power and acquired the right to rule by decree. For most of that time, he had the firm support of the United States.
        While he was President, Mr. Marcos was not apologetic about departing from the norms of Western democracy. ''What we ask of the developed countries,'' he wrote in 1982, ''is to let the third world find a third way. We must now create a political and economic system responsive to our unique character and our special realities.''
        A skillful lawyer and orator, Mr. Marcos entered public life in 1949 and served successively as a member of the Philippine House of Representatives, Senator and president of the Senate before he was first elected President in 1965. He was re-elected in 1969, later proclaimed that the governmental machinery was not operating and set about transforming it.
        He entrenched himself as the Philippines' autocratic ruler during the nine years, from 1972 to 1981, in which he imposed martial law. He held on to sweeping powers afterward, and his regal manner and sumptuous way of life seemed to enhance his authority over his poverty-plagued, largely rural nation of 60 million people, a former American colony that became independent in 1946.
        Defending his right to rule by decree, if he chose, he asserted that otherwise ''you will have Communists going back and forth, causing the dastardly ruin of our country, the killing of people and the rape of women.''
        Over the years, Mr. Marcos's hand was strengthened by the support of the armed forces, whose size he tripled, to 200,000 troops, after declaring martial law in 1972. The forces included some first-rate units as well as thousands of unruly and ill-equipped personnel of the civilian home defense forces and other paramilitary organizations. In the martial-law years, he also consolidated his parliamentary power and curbed civil liberties, harassing or exiling political opponents.
        Eventually, in the 1980's, corruption and mismanagement left the Philippine economy in obvious trouble, and Mr. Marcos's prestige and power shrank. His health faltered, the United States moved away from him and political opponents and Communist insurgents grew more assertive.
        And he was put on the defensive after Aug. 21, 1983, when Benigno S. Aquino Jr., the main opposition leader, was shot and killed at the Manila airport as he returned home after three years of self-exile in the United States.
        The indignation caused by the killing, coupled with longstanding discontent, led to demonstrations and rioting that undermined his authority and ultimately brought Corazon C. Aquino, Mr. Aquino's widow, to power. Corruption Within
        Mr. Marcos's aura was also tarnished by accusations and problems concerning his country's business and economic life. Under his rule, the Philippines was afflicted with widespread corruption and vast unemployment. There was widespread poverty, along with a few sectors of great wealth.
        Mr. Marcos was said to suffer kidney problems, and 1984 there was speculation that he was close to death. A passionate golfer and physical fitness buff who was proud of his physique, he disputed the accounts.
        With Mr. Marcos ailing, his long-powerful wife emerged as the Government's main public figure, meeting high-ranking visitors as though she were the chief of state. Her actual position was Minister of Human Settlements, which gave her cabinet rank.
        Over the years, the life that the Marcoses came to lead in their riverside palace became regal indeed. When Pope John Paul II visited the Philippines in 1981, Mr. Marcos had bronze medals struck depicting himself and the Pope.
        Ferdinand Edralin Marcos's early years were rather more austere. He was born Sept. 11, 1917, in the town of Sarrat in a rice- and tobacco-growing area in Ilocos Norte in northern Luzon. His father, Mariano R. Marcos, was a politician and educator. His mother, the former Josefa Edralin, was a teacher from a well-to-do landowning family.
        The Marcos family moved to Manila in 1925, and the future President graduated from secondary school in 1934 and went on to study law on a scholarship at the University of the Philippines.
        While he was a student, he was convicted of the murder of a political rival of his father, but the verdict was reversed by the Philippine Supreme Court after the young man argued his own appeal.
        He then became a trial lawyer in his father's Manila law firm. In World War II, he was a much-decorated officer in both the Philippine and United States Armies. Question of Medals
        The decorations that Mr. Marcos claimed to have earned for military service against the Japanese became a campaign issue four decades later, when Mrs. Aquino denounced what she called his ''false medals.''
        The Government's count of his war decorations ranged from 26 to 33. When their validity was challenged by American and Philippine journalists, his Government argued that documentation of his exploits as a wounded army officer and guerrilla leader had been destroyed by fire.
        In 1946 and 1947, Mr. Marcos was special assistant to President Manuel Roxas. He was a member of the Philippine House of Representatives from 1949 to 1959 and of the Senate from 1959 to 1966, serving as president of the Senate from 1963 to 1965.
        As President of the Philippines, Mr. Marcos ran the country jointly with a disputatious two-party Congress until he imposed martial law. He suspended Congress, declared himself absolute ruler and had a constitutional convention draw up a charter that gave the Philippines a Prime Minister as head of government. He then named himself Prime Minister under the new Constitution as well as President under the old.
        Mr. Marcos remained Prime Minister from 1973 until 1981, when he stepped down from that post and, while retaining the presidency, also served as leader of the New Society Movement, his political party. He was easily elected again as President, Early Support, Then Furor Early in the martial law period, Mr. Marcos enjoyed widespread support, in part because crimes of violence decreased. Other successes of his presidency, over the years, included rural irrigation and electrification projects and increased rice harvests.
        Yet the boasts of Mr. Marcos and his supporters seemed to be drowned out, in his final years, by the furor over the Aquino slaying, the Communist insurgency and the clamor of his emboldened political foes.
        In the months after the killing, he made concessions to his opponents under pressure from the United States, which had provided hundreds of millions of dollars in aid. That assistance had been important over the years in buttressing his rule.
        But by late 1984, there were signs that the Reagan Administration was distancing itself from his Government somewhat. And Mr. Marcos also had to contend with opposition from his country's Roman Catholic Church.
        Many Filipinos came to believe that Mr. Marcos, a shrewd political tactician, had no hand in the killing of Mr. Aquino but that he was involved in cover-up measures.
        A civilian investigative panel issued a report in October 1984 naming Gen. Fabian C. Ver, the armed forces Chief of Staff and a close friend of Mr. Marcos, and two dozen others, mostly soldiers, as ''indictable for the premeditated killing'' of Mr. Aquino and of Rolando Galman, who was earlier said to have been the lone assassin killed by airport guards. An indictment was handed up in February 1985.
        Mr. Marcos asserted that the evidence backed the military's contention that Mr. Galman had been hired by Communists and had acted on his own. But some opposition politicians contended that Mr. Marcos had ordered the slaying, while others accused the military and Mrs. Marcos.
        In late 1985, when the court found the defendants in the Aquino murder trial not guilty, the verdict was widely seen as a miscarriage of justice.
        While the Aquino controversy continued in the capital, the Communist insurgency, which began in 1969, was making political as well as military inroads around the country.
        Mr. Marcos estimated that the insurgent regulars numbered 10,000 to 12,000 by early 1985. But the rebel organization, the New People's Army, said it had around 20,000 armed fighters. And its popularity and influence were growing.
        As a result, by May 1985, many opposition figures had begun striking a more nationalistic and anti-American note - partly in reaction to leftists' charges that the Marcos Government was dictatorial and was being sustained by United States aid.
        His ties with Washington were of long standing. Early in his presidency, Mr. Marcos was a strong defender of American involvement in Vietnam, and he maintained close relations with Washington in the years that followed.
        Those relations soured somewhat under the Carter Administration, which included the Philippines among the targets of its human-rights campaign. But Vice President George Bush appeared to signal a different tack in 1981 when he visited Manila and told Mr. Marcos: ''We love your adherence to democratic principles and to democratic processes. We will not leave you in isolation.'' Mr. Bush said the next day that he had been speaking generally of American allies in Southeast Asia, but his remarks were associated in the public mind with the Philippines and came to be quoted with ironic intent. The Bases Factor
        As criticism of the Marcos Government grew in the United States, American officials let it be known that the Administration was particularly worried that instability in the Philippines might impede use of the two major American military bases there, Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Station. Accordingly, they indicated, the Administration wanted to prepare to deal with a Philippine power struggle after Mr. Marcos's rule.
        By October 1984 the Reagan Administration had altered its attitude toward Mr. Marcos, and was prodding him to relax his authoritarian rule.
        Mr. Marcos was evidently nettled by the American appraisals. Shaking his fist, he declared in one speech, ''I am surprised why some people would classify us with the Central and Latin American countries.''
        ''We don't want to appear to our Asian brothers as if we were the pet dogs of any Western ally,'' he said, suggesting that his handling of the Aquino assassination case was not meant just to satisfy Washington.
        Criticism from the Philippine business sector, having flared up after the Aquino killing, continued, with many company executives urging that the economic power of Mr. Marcos and his entourage be reduced to permit decentralization and to bolster investor confidence.
        After the assassination, the Philippine economy worsened so markedly that the nation was not able to keep pace with the payments due on loans from overseas. The country's foreign debt soared to more than $25 billion by the beginning of 1985, and international lending organizations and banks, ascribing the economic travail to cronyism and heavy-handed Government control of the economy, pressed for changes.
        In the embittered political climate, Mr. Marcos found himself confronted by Mrs. Aquino.
        The widow of his leading foe became a rival candidate for President in a special election that the confident Mr. Marcos, in a decisive political misstep, called for February 1986. The date was 16 months before the end of his six-year presidential term. The Marcos-controlled National Assembly declared him the victor, on the basis of a vote tally that was marked by pervasive violence and fraud by his side.
        Resentment simmered, and later that month, Juan Ponce Enrile, the Defense Minister, and Gen. Fidel V. Ramos, the army deputy chief of staff, led an anti-Marcos military rebellion that was noteworthy for its lack of bloodshed. Hundreds of thousands of Filipinos turned out into Manila's streets, forming a vast human wall to protect Mr. Enrile, General Ramos and others who had barricaded themselves in a military installation.
        The human buffer made it impossible for the Marcos forces to strike at the rebels without causing many civilian casualties, and it added to the manifold pressures on Mr. Marcos to cease trying to rule.
        Finally, after asking in vain for Reagan Administration help in staying in power, he fled the Presidential Palace in the evening of Feb. 25, accompanied by his family, and a United States Air Force plane flew the Marcoses to Guam en route to Hawaii, where they took up residence in Honolulu.
        In the months after his ouster, details emerged about the enormous wealth Mr. Marcos had amassed in his years in power. Recovering the Plunder
        A Manila commission, trying to regain what it called the concealed Marcos fortune, took over 268 companies, in many industries ranging from banking to mining to steel-making, by early 1987. Not long after Mrs. Aquino took power, Philippine officials estimated that the fortune built up by Mr. and Mrs. Marcos totaled $5 billion or more, and the Aquino Government estimated that as much as $10 billion in stolen wealth was involved. Mrs. Marcos was found to have left behind 1,060 pairs of shoes and slippers at the Presidential Palace, along with 508 floor-length gowns.
        As time went by, the Aquino Government filed several civil suits before a Philippine court asking damages of as much as $100 billion against Mr. Marcos, his relatives and ''cronies.''
        In 1986, the Government filed suit in the Honolulu Federal District Court to recover $100 million in assets that the Government charged the Marcoses had stolen. New legal dcouments were filed on June 20 in Los Angeles charging that the Marcoses stole $5 billion during the presidential years. The suit has not come to trial and is still pending.
        Investigations were also carried out by American officials, and in October 1988, Mr. Marcos, his wife and eight associates, including Adnan M. Khashoggi, a Saudi businessman, were indicted by a Federal grand jury in New York in a racketeering case. It included charges that Mr. Marcos and the others had embezzled tens of millions of dollars during his presidency.
        On April 6 Federal prosecutors said Mr. Marcos had become too ill to stand trial on the criminal charges pending in New York. But on June 9 they moved to guarantee claims against his fortune in the event of his death, filing a civil suit against him and his wife in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
        Yet while Mr. Marcos remained of keen interest to investigators and prosecutors, as his years of exile went by, he became less of a political factor in the Philippines.
        The mass support Mr. Marcos had once enjoyed mostly faded away, and his remaining supporters had come to be seen as a minority in his homeland. Indeed, even though his political legacy continued to trouble the nation, Mr. Marcos came to be widely seen in the Philippines as largely irrelevant.
        He is survived by his wife, of Honolulu; a brother, Dr. Pacifico Marcos, and a sister, Fortuna Barba, both of Manila; two daughters, Maria Imelda Manotoc, who has been living in Morocco, and Irene Araneta, who lives in Menlo Park, a suburb of San Francisco; an adopted daughter, Aimee Marcos, of Honolulu; a son, Ferdinand, Jr., and five grandchildren.
      