
       Tim Wengerd, a leading dancer in the Martha Graham company until 1982, a choreographer and a founder of the Repertory Dance Theater of Utah, died of AIDS on Sept. 12 at his home in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 44 years old.
        Tim Wengerd, a leading dancer in the Martha Graham company until 1982, a choreographer and a founder of the Repertory Dance Theater of Utah, died of AIDS on Sept. 12 at his home in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 44 years old.
        Mr. Wengerd's athletic build and gift for rendering the subtleties of Miss Graham's dance idiom made him a perfect dancer for nearly all the major male roles in her works after he joined her company in 1973. The special quality of his dancing, combining power with fresh-faced sensuousness, was used by Miss Graham in seven premieres. Debut as a Minotaur
        Mr. Wengerd's performances were always marked by careful attention to characterization. Before making his debut as the Minotaur figure in ''Errand Into the Maze,'' the classic Graham study of sexual fear, Mr. Wengerd studied the makeup for the bull figure and analyzed the role. Miss Graham's use of Greek myth was valid in modern terms, he said in 1974. ''Whatever changes we make in taste or strides in technology, the basic fears are there,'' he said. ''That is what 'Errand' is about.'' Mr. Wengerd came to notice as a dancer nationally when he appeared in New York City and on tour with the Repertory Dance Theater of Utah, which he helped found as a collective in 1966 in Salt Lake City. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Utah in 1969.
        Timothy Mather Wengerd was born in Chelsea, Mass., and grew up in Albuquerque, where he accompanied his father, a geologist, on walks in the desert and mountains of New Mexico. He studied dance in Albuquerque and at the College of Fine Arts of the University of Utah. While in the Repertory Theater, he danced in works by many leading modern-dance choreographers and studied with Alwin Nikolais, Anna Sokolow and Jose Limon.
        Mr. Wengerd had begun choreographing while in high school. In 1982 he went abroad to teach and present his own work. He was an assistant director of the Paris Opera Ballet's modern-dance troupe and was sent to Tanzania by the State Department. He returned to the United States to present his solo concerts and appeared in Martha Clarke's ''Garden of Earthly Delights.''
        Last year, he choreographed for Mexican dance companies on a Fulbright fellowship and then returned to Albuquerque to open a company and a school, the Wengerd Conservatory.
        He is survived by his parents, Florence Mather Wengerd and Dr. Sherman A. Wengerd of Albuquerque, and three sisters, Stephanie Allen and Diana Roach of Albuquerque and Anne Riffey of California.
      