
       Chen Boda, a senior aide to Mao Zedong who was convicted in 1981 of crimes during the Cultural Revolution, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Beijing, the Hong Kong press reported Thursday. He was 85 years old.
        Chen Boda, a senior aide to Mao Zedong who was convicted in 1981 of crimes during the Cultural Revolution, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Beijing, the Hong Kong press reported Thursday. He was 85 years old.
        Newspapers and a news service in Hong Kong said Mr. Chen died of heart failure. The death was not immediately confirmed by the Chinese Government.
        A civilian, Mr. Chen was political secretary to Mao, the leader of the Chinese Communist Party. He was tried in Beijing in 1980 on charges of authorizing the persecution of officials in 1966 at the beginning of the Cultural Revolution, a period of upheaval engineered by Communist extremists that lasted until 1976.
        Among the victims of the purges that he helped carry out were Deng Xiaoping, now China's senior leader, and President Liu Shaoqi, who died in prison. Called for 'Sweeping Away'
        At his trial, Mr. Chen acknowledged responsibility for a June 1966 editorial in the People's Daily, the party newspaper, calling for the ''sweeping away of all monsters and demons.''
        The paper later said the editorial had caused numerous deaths and had toppled the pillars of the state by denouncing leaders as ''capitalist roaders.''
        In September 1981 Mr. Chen was sentenced to 18 years in prison. The semi-official Hong Kong China News Service, which on Thursday reported his death, said he was set free later in 1981. Previously it had been reported that he had been paroled on an undisclosed date for medical reasons.
        The news service reported that Mr. Chen's body was cremated on Thursday at a crematorium set aside for senior Communist Party members. Friends and relatives were said to have been present, but not senior Chinese Government or party figures. In Communist Underground
        Mr. Chen was born in 1904 in the coastal province of Fujian. As a young man he joined the Communist Party, studied in Moscow and was a member of the armed forces of the Kuomintang before the Communists split from that Nationalist movement after the death of its first leader, Sun Yat-sen.
        Mr. Chen was later arrested and served a prison term. He then joined the Communist underground in in Beijing and elsewhere while working as a teacher.
        He became Mao's political secretary at Communist headquarters in Yenan in 1937. As a leading polemicist and ideologist, he was widely seen as Mao's mouthpiece and was elected a full member of the Communist Party's Central Committee in 1946.
        He was a major figure for years in the Central Committee's propaganda department, serving as the interpreter of Mao's thoughts. He was elected to be an alternate member of the Politburo in 1956 and began a long tour of duty as editor of Hung Chi, the Central Committee's publication on ideology, when it was founded in 1958. Called a Ghost Writer for Mao
        Mr. Chen covered a wilde range of subjects in his many writings, from denouncing the Nationalists to justifying the commune structure in Chinese agriculture. He was also said to have ghost-written many of Mao's speeches and articles.
        The height of Mr. Chen's power came during the Cultural Revolution, when he served for a time as head of the Central Cultural Revolution Group, with day-to-day responsibility for the political purges then sweeping China. In August 1966 the Central Committee elected him to the Politburo's Standing Committee. On that important panel, Mao was ranked first and Mr. Chen fifth.
        But he fell into disgrace in the early 1970's when he was imprisoned after being accused of backing the Defense Minister, Lin Biao, in vying with Mao for power. A Feeble 76 at his Trial
        In 1980 he went on trial along with the leaders of the Cultural Revolution, who had come to be called the Gang of Four. Then 76 years old, he hobbled into the courtroom on crutches.
        He said it was he who had outlined the 1966 People's Daily editorial and that others had written it at his behest. He also said he was responsible for a false accusation that leaders in Hebei Province, near Beijing, had advocated collaborating with the Nationalists in Taiwan. That accusation was reported to have led to the deaths of more than 2,000 people at the hands of extremist supporters of Mao.
        Mr. Chen was reported to have passed his final years studying history in Beijing after being released from prison.
        The Hong Kong China News Agency said Mr. Chen's son Chen Xiaonong and daughter Chen Lingmei were among those attending the cremation.
      