
       Morris Barney Dalitz, a Prohibition Era bootlegger and prominent figure in the casino industry in Las Vegas, Nev., in the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at his home there. He was 89 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Morris Barney Dalitz, a Prohibition Era bootlegger and prominent figure in the casino industry in Las Vegas, Nev., in the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at his home there. He was 89 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Mr. Dalitz, known as Moe, was reported to have longstanding ties to organized crime figures, including Meyer Lansky and Benjamin (Bugsy) Siegel, from his bootlegging days in Detroit and Cleveland. While he was active in those cities in dry cleaning and real estate, he admitted under oath that he had been a bootlegger and had operated illegal gambling houses. He was never convicted of a crime.
        He moved to Las Vegas in 1949 and became a part owner of several gambling casinos, including the Desert Inn and the Stardust Hotel.
        In the early 1950's Mr. Dalitz also helped form the Paradise Development Company, which built the city's convention center, Sunrise Hospital, a shopping center and several buildings at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas.
        After the sale of the Desert Inn in 1966 he helped develop La Costa Resort, a $100 million real estate complex near San Diego. Construction of the development was financed in part by an $87 million loan from the pension fund of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters at a time when the union was controlled by James R. Hoffa.
        Mr. Dalitz was a principal plaintiff in a $640 million libel suit against Penthouse magazine over a 1975 article reporting that La Costa Resort had been founded, financed and frequented by organized crime figures. But a judge ruled that he was a public figure and dismissed his part of the suit.
        In later years, Mr. Dalitz became known as a philanthropist and in 1976 received the Humanitarian Award from the American Cancer Research Center and Hospital.
        He is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Dalitz Brown of Cardiff, Calif. and three grandchildren. The funeral will be Tuesday.
      