
       Howard Wise, an art patron and a former dealer who gave important early support to the technology in art movement in the United States, died of prostate cancer yesterday at his summer home in Wellfleet, Mass. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Howard Wise, an art patron and a former dealer who gave important early support to the technology in art movement in the United States, died of prostate cancer yesterday at his summer home in Wellfleet, Mass. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1964 his Howard Wise Gallery in Manhattan presented ''On the Move,'' the first survey in the United States of contemporary kinetic art. The gallery's exhibition ''Lights in Orbit'' three years later was the first comprehensive survey in this country of kinetic light art. Mr. Wise also organized the first exhibition of the budding video art movement, ''TV as a Creative Medium,'' in 1969, and two years later he founded Electronic Arts Intermix, a nonprofit organization that distributes artists' videotapes and provides editing and post-production facilities for independent videomakers. Gallery Opened in 1960
        Born in November 1903 in Cleveland, Mr. Wise attended the University School there and Le Rosey in Switzerland and was graduated from Clare College of Cambridge University in 1926. Returning to Cleveland, he worked his way up to the presidency of a family business, the Arco Company, which manufactured industrial paints and varnishes. After 25 years, he sold the business to pursue his artistic interests.
        After several years as an art dealer in Cleveland, he opened the Howard Wise Gallery at 50 West 57th Street in Manhattan in 1960. He showed such Abstract Expressionist painters as Milton Resnick and George McNeil. Later he began to specialize in kinetic art and light sculpture. In 1971 he closed the gallery to concentrate on Electronic Arts Intermix, which became a model for other arts support groups in New York and elsewhere.
        Mr. Wise is survived by his wife, Barbara; a sister, Frances Lang, of Cleveland; two children by his first marriage to Jane Eiseman, now dead, Daniel, of New York City, and Jeremy, of Amherst, Mass.; two children by his second marriage, David, of Los Angeles, and Juliet Rubens, of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      