
       Jose Perez San Roman, a commander of the Cuban exile invasion force that was defeated at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, was found dead Sunday in his home in Miami, according to the police. He was 58 years old.
        Jose Perez San Roman, a commander of the Cuban exile invasion force that was defeated at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, was found dead Sunday in his home in Miami, according to the police. He was 58 years old.
        The police said that the death was apparently a suicide and that a note had been found near the body. An autopsy will be performed to determine the cause of death, the police said.
        Mr. San Roman was a graduate of the University of Havana and served as a captain in the army of Fulgencio Batista, the former Cuban dictator. He was one of the commanders of Brigade 2506, the 1,500-member invasion force that made a futile attempt to invade Cuba in April 1961. The Cuban exiles, who had been organized, trained and equipped by the Central Intelligence Agency, had been led to believe that the United States would support the mission with an air strike or additional forces.
        The invasion force was left stranded, and after 72 hours of fighting, Mr. San Roman radioed a message from the beachhead that he was abandoning the effort. ''Tanks are in sight,'' his message said. ''I have nothing to fight with. I cannot wait for you.'' #20 Months in Cuban Jail He was taken prisoner along with about 1,100 of his men, spent 20 months in jail and was set free after the United States provided more than $50 million in food and medical supplies to Cuba.
        Modesto Castaner, president of the Bay of Pigs Association, which is made up of members of the Brigade 2506, said Mr. San Roman had been depressed recently.
        ''He was a man of great integrity,'' Mr. Castaner said. ''Psychologically, he had tremendous scars brought on by the defeat of the invasion. He felt betrayed by the United States.''
        After his return to the United States, Mr. San Roman spent several years in the United States Army, then worked as a truck driver.
        He is survived by two sons, Alfredo, of Houston, and Robert, of Miami; two daughters, Marisela and Sandra, both of Miami; a brother, Roberto Perez, and a sister, Laly de la Cruz, both of Miami, and five grandchildren.
      