
       Dr. Paul A. Weiss, a biologist who won the National Medal of Science for his pioneering work in the theory of cellular development, died Friday at the White Plains branch of New York Hospital after a long illness. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Paul A. Weiss, a biologist who won the National Medal of Science for his pioneering work in the theory of cellular development, died Friday at the White Plains branch of New York Hospital after a long illness. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Weiss, a professor emeritus at Rockefeller University, won the nation's highest science award and many other honors for establishing, among other breakthroughs, the principle of cellular self-organization, in which cells that have been mixed randomly and reassembled from different organs can rebuild themselves into miniature copies of the donor organs without direction from a central source.
        By photographing the function of nerve fibers, he also helped prove that nerve cells replenished themselves to all parts of the body, and he established new surgical methods for the repair of peripheral nerve tissue.
        He also successfully challenged the long-held view that an embryo is organized by specific chemical compounds. He showed that an embyro's organization and growth is determined by physical and chemical environment surrounding newly multiplying cells.
        Dr. Weiss was a courtly, supportive teacher and adviser to students for more than 60 years. He was regarded as an influential lecturer and writer knowledgeable in many subjects, including how the brain functions and the ideals of basic research and humanistic values. He believed that experience, experiments and logic enhance one other in a ''triple interplay to promote knowledge.'' Years at University of Chicago
        Paul Alfred Weiss was born in Vienna on March 21, 1898. He served in the Austrian Army in World War I and later studied law and engineering at the University of Vienna. He soon realized he favored pure research and shifted to biology, receiving a Ph.D. in 1922.
        He conducted research for the Austrian Academy of Sciences, did more postgraduate studies at major European science centers under a Rockefeller Foundation fellowship and emigrated to the United States in 1931 as a Sterling Fellow at Yale. He lived in this country the rest of his life, becoming an American citizen in 1939.
        Dr. Weiss taught and conducted research at the University of Chicago for 21 years. From 1954 to 1964, he was a professor at Rockefeller University, originally called the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, where he directed a new laboratory of developmental biology, specializing in research in wound healing, cancer and the development and repair of the nervous system.
        For more than 15 years after 1964, he alternated research at Rockefeller with visiting professorships at other universities.
        Dr. Weiss contributed more than 350 articles to professional and scientific journals and wrote 11 books, including ''Principles of Development: A Text in Experimental Embryology'' (1939) and ''The Science of Life'' (1973). He received many awards and honorary degrees in the United States and Europe and had been a consultant to many governmental and professional panels. He was a president of both the Society for Developmental Biology and the International Society for Cell Biology.
        His leisure interests included writing poetry, sculpturing and playing the violin.
        Surviving are his wife, Maria, and a brother, Hans George, of Austria.
      