
       Sol Greitzer, a prominent violist and the New York Philharmonic's longtime principal player until he resigned in 1985, died of a stroke yesterday in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Sol Greitzer, a prominent violist and the New York Philharmonic's longtime principal player until he resigned in 1985, died of a stroke yesterday in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Greitzer played with the NBC Symphony under Toscanini in the early 1950's and joined the Philharmonic in 1954. He was named principal violist by Pierre Boulez, then the music director, in 1972.
        Mr. Greitzer was also a distinguished soloist and gave the premieres of concertos by Jacob Druckman and William Thomas McKinley. He also played as soloist under such conductors as Leonard Bernstein, Daniel Barenboim, James Levine, Rafael Kubelik, Zubin Mehta and Gerard Schwarz. Since leaving the Philharmonic, Mr. Greitzer had been an active performer and was on the faculties of the Mannes School and the State University of New York at Purchase. He collapsed yesterday while telephoning a student and was taken to St. Luke's Hospital where he died.
        Mr. Greitzer was born in New York in 1925, the son of a shoe designer. He began as a violinist, in which capacity he appeared as a soloist with the City Symphony Orchestra at the age of 12 and again at 16. He entered the Juilliard School at 17 and studied the violin with Louis Persinger and the viola with Milton Katims. Mr. Greitzer was drafted in World War II, saw action and was decorated in the Battle of the Bulge. On his return to civilian life, he decided to concentrate on the viola.
        Mr. Greitzer is survived by his wife, Shirley Greitzer, a pianist and teacher; three daughters - Deborah Greitzer Silberschlag of St. Mary's City, Md., Jody Greitzer Schwarz of New York City, and Pamela Greitzer, also of New York, and a sister, Marjorie Aptowitz of Randolph, Mass.
        The funeral will be at noon Sunday at the Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and West 76th Street.
      