
       Abba P. Schwartz, a lawyer and former high-ranking State Department official, died of a heart attack Tuesday on a street in Brussels while going to the United States Embassy on business. He was 73 years old.
        Abba P. Schwartz, a lawyer and former high-ranking State Department official, died of a heart attack Tuesday on a street in Brussels while going to the United States Embassy on business. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Schwartz, a specialist in immigration law, was a proponent of liberalized policies for the admission of refugees and visitors to the United States.
        During the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, when he was an Assistant Secretary of State heading the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs, he opposed restrictive laws that excluded many people from entering the country because of their beliefs.
        He resigned abruptly in 1966 when his office was about to be eliminated in a budgetary reorganization. His supporters contended that he had been hounded out of office by conservatives in the State Department who opposed his efforts to make it easier for people with unpopular political beliefs to visit this country. Negotiated With Cuba
        Mr. Schwartz also worked extensively to ease the plight of refugees around the world. In the mid-1960's he was a principal negotiator of an accord with Cuba that permitted several thousand Cubans to come to the United States. During the Vietnam War, he promoted programs to help refugees in South Vietnam and to repatriate prisoners taken by the Vietcong and North Vietnamese.
        Mr. Schwartz was born in Baltimore and received a bachelor's degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a law degree from Harvard. During World War II, he served in the merchant marine, ferrying supplies to Murmansk in the Soviet Union, and later as a lieutenant in the United States Navy.
        He began his work with refugees as an official of the Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees in London in 1946. From 1947 to 1949, he was reparations director of the United Nations International Refugee Organization in Geneva.
        During the 1950's, Mr. Schwartz, as a lawyer in Washington, became a close political associate of John F. Kennedy and his brother, Robert. He was also an adviser to Eleanor Roosevelt, the widow of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        In 1962 President Kennedy appointed Mr. Schwartz to the State Department post. At the time, under the McCarran-Walter Act, people who were deemed ideologically unsuitable for admission as visitors to this country could receive an exception from the Attorney General. Mr. Schwartz worked closely with Attorney General Kennedy to admit a number of East European and other visitors who would otherwise have been barred.
        In his book, ''The Open Society,'' published by William Morrow in 1968, Mr. Schwartz wrote of his struggle to circumvent the McCarran-Walter Act's restrictions and the State Department bureaucracy.
        Mr. Schwartz, who lived in Manhattan and Washington, is survived by a sister, Janet Chase of Snowmass Village, Colo.; two nephews, Eugene Schwartz of San Diego and Neil Chase of San Francisco, and a niece, Joan Kunze of Reston, Va.
      