
       Solomon Fabricant, an educator and economist, and his wife, Bessie, died in an automobile accident Wednesday near Katonah, N.Y. Dr. Fabricant was 83 years old, and his wife was 82. They lived in South Salem, N.Y.
        Solomon Fabricant, an educator and economist, and his wife, Bessie, died in an automobile accident Wednesday near Katonah, N.Y. Dr. Fabricant was 83 years old, and his wife was 82. They lived in South Salem, N.Y.
        Dr. Fabricant was a professor emeritus of economics at New York University, where he had taught since 1946. He was also director emeritus of the National Bureau of Economics Research, where he was associated with Dr. Arthur F. Burns, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's chief economic adviser.
        Dr. Fabricant did extensive research on productivity and economic growth and was considered the foremost authority on what constitutes a recession. He was also a prolific writer on topics like productivity, economic principles, economic growth, war and defense economics and income and philanthropy.
        ''He was a great research leader during his entire career,'' said Dr. Geoffry Moore, director of the Center for International Business Cycle Research at Columbia University. ''He helped guide the research activities of several generations of economists.'' Joined University in 1946
        Dr. Fabricant was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 15, 1906. He received bachelor's degrees from New York University and City College, a master's degree from Columbia in 1930 and a Ph.D. in economics from Columbia in 1938. He worked as an accountant from 1925 to 1929 and then joined the National Bureau of Economic Research. He was with the bureau from 1930 to 1972, serving as director of research from 1953 to 1965.
        He joined the faculty at New York University's Graduate School of Business in 1946 as a lecturer, became an associate professor in 1947 and full professor from in 1948. He was named professor emeritus in 1973.
        Over the years, he served as a consultant and a member of many governmental boards, including the Bureau of the Census, the New York State Tax Commission, National Security Resources Board, Office of Science and Technology, National Commission on Productivity and the President's Task Force on Science Policy.
        Among the books he wrote are: ''Captial Consumption and Adjustment'' (1938); ''Economic Progress and Economic Change'' (1954); ''Primer on Productivity'' (1969), and ''Productivity Growth: Purpose, Process, Prospects and Policy'' (1978).
        He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Statistical Association. He was also vice president of the American Economic Association and was a trustee of the Economic History Association.
        The Fabricants are survived by two daughters, Ruth Lowell and Sarah Corbin, and a son, Peter, all of Manhattan, and one grandchild.
        Dr. Fabricant is survived by a brother, Arthur, of Boynton Beach, Fla., and Mrs. Fabricant is survived by three brothers, Jack and Martin Blacksin, both of Washington, and Murray Blacksin, and a sister, Ruth Matloff, both of Brooklyn.
      