
       Alfred Hayes, who headed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York until 1975 and played a pivotal role in the national and world banking systems for nearly two decades, died yesterday at a nursing home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 79 years old and a longtime resident of New Canaan.
        Alfred Hayes, who headed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York until 1975 and played a pivotal role in the national and world banking systems for nearly two decades, died yesterday at a nursing home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 79 years old and a longtime resident of New Canaan.
        Mr. Hayes was known as a conservative money manager who took a strong stand against inflation. He also had a reputation as a lightning-fast mathematician.
        The bank he led in New York is by far the most significant of the 12 that make up the Federal Reserve system. It dominated the system until William McChesney Martin Jr., then the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, did battle with Mr. Hayes's predecessor, Allan Sproul, to wrest control from him.
        Mr. Sproul resigned in 1955, and Mr. Hayes, a vice president of the New York Trust Company with 23 years of banking experience, took his place. When, at age 65, he handed the reins to Paul A. Volcker, Mr. Hayes said he was proud to have mended fences and with the board. Aid for Britain
        ''The great strength of the system,'' he told an interviewer in 1975, ''is the existence of the 12 semi-autonomous reserve banks.''
        But Mr. Sproul and Mr. Hayes successfully defended New York's special standing in the important Federal Open Market Committee by keeping their bank's permanent hold on the vice chairmanship. The committee sets general policy on buying and selling Government securities in the open market - the key instrument in monetary policy.
        A frequent visitor to central bankers' meetings overseas, Mr. Hayes came to the rescue when crises battered the British pound sterling in the mid-1960's. He was instrumental in persuading other central bankers to buoy the British currency with a multibillion-dollar credit package.
        Being a monetary conservative, Mr. Hayes was against involving the central banking system to help fiscally troubled cities. ''As a practical matter,'' he said when New York City faced bankruptcy in the 1970's, ''there are very good reasons for the Federal Reserve to stay clear of this problem.'' Rhodes Scholar
        After his retirement, he moved to Morgan Stanley International, holding the posts of chairman and advisory director until 1981.
        Mr. Hayes's love of reading did not keep him from skiing and tennis, and he was fond of the theater and photography as well.
        He was born on Independence Day in 1910, in Ithaca, N.Y., where his father, also named Alfred, taught constitutional law at Cornell. He attended private schools, studied at Harvard and graduated from Yale in 1930.
        Then, after a year at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, he spent two years as a Rhodes scholar at New College in Oxford, England, and joined the City Bank Farmers Trust Company, which is now part of Citibank, in 1933 as an investment analyst.
        Mr. Hayes moved on to New York Trust's bond department in 1940. He served as a lieutenant in the Navy and then rose to vice president in charge of New York Trust's foreign division, the post he held when called to lead the New York Fed.
        Mr. Hayes is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Vilma Chalmers; a daughter, Anita Gratwick of Philadelphia; a son, Thomas C., of Cambridge, Mass.; a brother, M. V. Hayes of Woodstock, Vt.; a sister, Christine Hayes of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      