
       Marion Harper Jr., a leader in the advertising industry, died, apparently of a heart attack, yesterday, at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 73 years old.
        Marion Harper Jr., a leader in the advertising industry, died, apparently of a heart attack, yesterday, at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Harper was founder and former chairman of the huge Interpublic Group of Companies, which includes SSC & B: Lintas World Wide in New York and Dailey & Associates in Los Angeles. He also created the competitive agency system, in which a company's subsidiaries work on competing accounts.
        In an industry in which superlatives are the stock in trade, Mr. Harper was acknowledged as a great thinker. He was known for applying semantics to advertising. Mr. Harper believed that the scientific application of semantics would help in understanding human behavior and in motivating consumers.
        He also believed successful advertising depended on measuring people's reaction, and he developed a formula to pretest advertisements. He was a founder of the Copy Research Council and worked to make research a scientific advertising tool. President at Age of 32
        Mr. Harper was born on May 14, 1916, in Oklahoma City. He attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and graduated from Yale University in 1938. He followed his father into advertising, starting as a trainee with the McCann-Erickson agency in New York in 1939. After three months, he was transferred to the copy research department and, by 1942, was manager of copy research.
        In 1948, at the age of 32, Mr. Harper was named president of McCann-Erickson. He was often called a boy wonder. McCann-Erickson was the sixth largest agency in the country, with 24 offices and 1,200 employes.
        Mr. Harper brought in accounts like Coca-Cola and Buick, and added dozens of others by acquiring agencies. He took substantial risks, and in acquiring the $24 million-a-year Buick account, he dropped the Chrysler account, which was bringing in $26 million in billings.
        By 1951, he was planning a new form for his agency, one that could work on every step of marketing, from creating products to delivery. He set up companies for research, promotion, public relations, fashion, publishing and executive training. Quick Growth of Agency
        At a turning point in 1954, Mr. Harper acquired Wikerson, Schiwetz & Tips. an agency with 31 clients. He later added Marschalk & Pratt, which specialized in industrial and business advertising.
        When Mr. Harper was named chairman in 1958, McCann-Erickson ranked second to J. Walter Thompson. McCann had 41 offices in 16 countries and 4,000 employees.
        Mr. Harper opened a marketing-communications workshop, conducted research and shifted clients into advertising on television. In 1960, he received the Charles Coolidge Parlin Memorial Award of the American Marketing Association.
        In January 1961, McCann-Erickson changed its name to Interpublic Inc. and offered services that included advertising, marketing, sales promotion, public relations and communications. The company entered publishing, issuing books on marketing and advertising. Mr. Harper continued the expansion, but the acquisitions began to hurt profits.
        After Mr. Harper stepped aside as president and chairman in 1966, he remained president, chairman and chief executive of the parent Interpublic Group, with its 91 offices in 47 countries and 8,500 employees. In 1968, he was eased out and went to head other agencies, including Harper Rosenfeld Sirowitz and Systems for Growth.
        He was an officer of the Advertising Research Foundation, the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the Advertising Council. He was also a director of the Outdoor Advertising Bureau and a member of the National Distribution Council. Mr. Harper wrote books and articles, including ''Getting Results From Advertising.''
        Surviving are four sons, Stephen, Chilton, Francis and Reid, from his first marriage, and a daughter, Victoria, from his second marriage.
      