
       Charles J. Pedersen, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1987 for wide-ranging research that included the creation of artificial molecules that can mimic vital chemical reactions of the processes of life, died yesterday at his home in Salem, N.J. He was 85 years old.
        Charles J. Pedersen, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1987 for wide-ranging research that included the creation of artificial molecules that can mimic vital chemical reactions of the processes of life, died yesterday at his home in Salem, N.J. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Pedersen had suffered from blood cancer and Parkinson's disease, said Justin Carisio, a spokesman for E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, where Mr. Pedersen worked for 42 years until his retirement in 1969.
        ''He was a brilliant chemist and an extraordinary gentleman,'' said Edgar S. Woolard Jr., the chairman of Du Pont. ''After winning the prize, he inspired everyone else with his dignity, his humility and his personal charm.'' Synthesis of Vital Enzymes
        Mr. Pedersen shared the $340,000 prize for the synthesis of vital enzymes with Dr. Donald J. Cram of the University of California at Los Angeles and Dr. Jean-Marie Lehn, a professor of chemistry at Louis Pasteur University in Strasbourg and at College de France in Paris.
        The three scientists pioneered a field that exploits the idea that the three-dimensional shapes of molecules are vital to their chemical and biological functions. For example, hormones and enzymes initiate their effects on cells by first coupling with structural parts of the cell in the fashion of keys fitting into their matching locks.
        On receiving the prize, Mr. Pedersen said it was ''a great honor.'' He also praised Du Pont for encouraging him to work for many years in a particularly esoteric field.
        He was noted particularly for the development of compounds called crown ethers that form complexes with particular ions, electrically charged molecular particles. The Nobel Prize announcement said his scientific works, published in 1967, that described the synthesis of the compounds - cyclic polyethers - had become classics.
        Mr. Pedersen was born in Pusan, Korea. His father was a Norwegian seaman who became a mechanical engineer for an American-owned gold mine in Korea. His mother, who was Japanese, immigrated with her family to Korea to trade in silkworms. 'Spurred My Interest'
        Mr. Pedersen said his keenest childhood recollections were of seeing Siberian tigers roaming the countryside, hearing foxes on his roof and seeing the pouring of molten gold, which, he speculated, ''might have started my interest in chemistry.''
        At the age of 8, he was packed off to a series of Roman Catholic schools, first in Nagasaki, Japan. He came to the United States in 1927 to study chemical engineering at the University of Dayton in Ohio. After receiving a bachelor's degree, he studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received a master's degree in organic chemistry.
        Although encouraged to continue his education, he decided to start his career and went to work for Du Pont. Over the next 42 years his efforts resulted in 25 technical papers and 65 patents, mainly in petrochemicals 'A Real Kick'
        ''It used to give me a real kick,'' he said, ''to drive up to a gas station and see plaques on the pumps saying that the gasoline contained disalicylalpropylenediamine, an additive that I had perfected.''
        His patents made millions of dollars for Du Pont, and in 1960 he was promoted to research associate, the company's highest research position. This enabled him to pick his own area of investigation without concern over financial gain for the company.
        It was then that he began an investigation into crown ethers, sparked by curiosity over a clump of crystals he once found at the bottom of a beaker.
        His wife, the former Susan J. Ault, died in 1983. They were married for 36 years.
        He is survived by two daughters, Shirley Evans of Salem and Barbara Cleaveland of Alexandria, Va.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      