
       Ted Malone, a radio pioneer who won a national following as a genial, soft-spoken reader of homey and sentimental poems and philosophy, died of liver cancer last Friday at his home in Stratford, Conn. He was 81 years old.
        Ted Malone, a radio pioneer who won a national following as a genial, soft-spoken reader of homey and sentimental poems and philosophy, died of liver cancer last Friday at his home in Stratford, Conn. He was 81 years old.
        Over five decades, Mr. Malone broadcast on all the commercial networks. His programs of chitchat, which he called ''little visits,'' had millions of fans, particularly housewives and schoolgirls who deluged him with love letters and odes.
        A leading program was ''Between the Bookends,'' begun in 1929 at KMBC in Kansas City. Mr. Malone, whose legal name was Frank Alden Russell, was working at the station as an announcer, utility man and half of a ukulele team. When a hillbilly act failed to appear, he was assigned to read poetry for 15 minutes. He agreed, but, embarrassed at the task, declined to use his own name. Another announcer called him Ted Malone, and a national personality was born. Interviewed G.I.'s in Europe
        His other programs included ''Pilgrimage of Poetry'' and ''American Pilgrimage,'' anecdotal broadcasts from the homes of leading writers. During World War II, he was a correspondent for ABC radio in Europe, specializing in interviews with G.I.'s. After the war, he was a roving reporter for ABC around the world. He also edited a string of poetry anthologies and was a poetry editor for national magazines, including Good Housekeeping.
        Mr. Malone, an omnivorous reader, was a native of Colorado Springs, and grew up there and in Independence, Mo., where an early, challenging assignment was broadcasting live a high school football game over a party-line hookup from the running board of a car in a snowstorm. He began working at KMBC before his graduation from William Jewell College in the Kansas City, Mo., suburb of Liberty.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Verlia Short; two daughters, Elaine Gandal of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Happy Dunn of Yarmouth, Me.; a brother, Gerald, of Toms River, N.J.; a sister, Myrl Crenshaw, of Lees Summit, Mo., and five grandchildren.
      