
       Robert Halsband, an authority on 18th-century English literature and a teacher and writer, died of pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75 years old.  Professor Halsband wrote a dozen books on the literary figures of the 1700's and their works. Among his books are ''The Life of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu,'' ''The Complete Letters of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu'' and ''The Rape of the Lock and Its Illustrations, 1714-1896.
        Robert Halsband, an authority on 18th-century English literature and a teacher and writer, died of pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75 years old.  Professor Halsband wrote a dozen books on the literary figures of the 1700's and their works. Among his books are ''The Life of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu,'' ''The Complete Letters of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu'' and ''The Rape of the Lock and Its Illustrations, 1714-1896.'' All were published by Oxford University Press.
        He began his teaching career in the 1950's at Hunter College as an assistant professor and then assumed professorships at Columbia University in the 1960's and the University of California at Riverside in the 1970's. In 1982, he retired from the University of Illinois at Urbana as professor emeritus.
        Throughout his career, he wrote many articles and reviews for The New York Times Book Review, The Times Literary Supplement of The Times of London and The Saturday Review, as well as for scholarly journals.
        In the late 1960's, he was president of the American Center of P. E. N., a worldwide association of writers. He was a judge for the National Book Awards twice and was a member of the executive board of the American Society for 18th-Century Studies.
        Mr. Halsband was a graduate of New York University. He received a master's degree in English literature from Columbia University and a doctorate from Northwestern University.
        He is survived by two brothers, Samuel of Manhattan and Hyman of Hackensack, N.J., and three sisters, Rose Margolis of New Rochelle, N.Y., Helen Pecker of Florence, S.C. and Lena Horn of the Bronx.
      