
       Robert V. Van Fossan, board chairman and chief executive officer of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company and a longtime New Jersey civic leader, died of cancer yesterday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Mendham, N.J.
        Robert V. Van Fossan, board chairman and chief executive officer of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company and a longtime New Jersey civic leader, died of cancer yesterday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Mendham, N.J.
        Mr. Van Fossan had been chief executive officer of Mutual Benefit, of Newark, since 1972. He was president of the company from 1972 until 1978, when he became chairman.
        He was or had been an officer of more than a dozen civic organizations. He was a spokesman for New Jersey businesses and a strong advocate of cooperation for social progress and reforms among business, government and volunteer groups.
        Mr. Van Fossan was the chairman of Renaissance Newark Inc., a public-private group; the chairman of the Newark Performing Arts Corporation, and a trustee of the Newark Museum and of the Community Foundation of New Jersey, which aids nonprofit groups. He was the primary founder and former chairman of the Partnership for New Jersey, a group of business and community leaders that works to solve social and economic problems.
        He was a former chairman of the New Jersey Supreme Court Committee on efficiency in the courts, of the executive committee of northeastern governors, of the state's panel of the Regional Plan Association and a member of the executive committee of the state's National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        Mr. Van Fossan was born in Breckenridge, Minn., raised in Devils Lake, N.D., and served as a corporal in the Marines in the South Pacific in World War II. After earning a high school diploma, he won successively higher posts in the Northwestern National Life Insurance Company over 24 years.
        Surviving are his wife, Mary Jane; a daughter, Deborah Greer of Eagan, Minn.; two sons, Robert, of Wayzata, Minn., and Steven, of Chatham, N.J.; his mother, Marie, of Missoula, Mont., and two grandchildren.
      