
       Pedro Vargas, who was known as ''the tenor of the Americas'' during a career that lasted more than 60 years, died of heart failure today at his home here. He was 85 years old. His eldest son, Pedro Jr., said he died in his sleep, and that he had been suffering for several years from diabetes and heart problems.
        Pedro Vargas, who was known as ''the tenor of the Americas'' during a career that lasted more than 60 years, died of heart failure today at his home here. He was 85 years old. His eldest son, Pedro Jr., said he died in his sleep, and that he had been suffering for several years from diabetes and heart problems.
        Mr. Vargas sang many times in the United States, at Carnegie Hall, Madison Square Garden, the White House and other places.
        He sang for Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, shared the stage with Sammy Davis Jr., and counted Frank Sinatra and Julio Iglesias among his friends and admirers, his son said. Family Hoped for a Priest
        Mr. Vargas was born in San Miguel de Allende, in central Mexico, on April 29, 1904, the second of 13 children. He was a quiet and introverted child whose family wanted him to become a priest.
        Instead, he developed an early vocation for music and began singing in a chorus in high school in Mexico City in 1917. After high school, he tried unsuccessfully to become a bullfighter, and then turned to the study of medicine.
        But singing remained his first love, and his voice gained him admission to the National Conservatory of Music. He got his first break in 1928 when he was selected to sing the role of Turiddu in Mascagni's opera ''Cavalleria Rusticana.'' The performance led to a tour of the United States.
        Mr. Vargas then turned to popular ballads, eventually reaching an audience of millions in Latin America, the United States, Europe and Asia. His rendition of ''Fleur-de-lis'' was celebrated throughout Latin America in the 1930's.
        In partnership with the Mexican composer Agustin Lara, Mr. Vargas popularized the bolero and the pasodoble, the fast-paced Spanish double-step dance. He also appeared in dozens of films, most of them in Mexico.
        Mr. Vargas is survived by his wife, Teresa; four children, and seven grandchildren.
      