
       Edmund Jan Osmanczyk, a Polish journalist, independent legislator and compiler of encyclopedias on international affairs, died Tuesday in Warsaw, where he lived. He was 76 years old and had been suffering from heart disease.
        Edmund Jan Osmanczyk, a Polish journalist, independent legislator and compiler of encyclopedias on international affairs, died Tuesday in Warsaw, where he lived. He was 76 years old and had been suffering from heart disease.
        Mr. Osmanczyk served in the Polish Parliament from 1952 to 1961 and from 1969 to 1985. In the days before the Solidarity movement, he was a centrist dissenter who was a thorn in the side of the Communist regime.
        He began his journalistic career in the 1930's, covering the League of Nations in Geneva. For seven years beginning in 1932 he was based in Berlin at a press center maintained by Poles in Germany.
        When Hitler invaded Poland, setting off World War II, Mr. Osmanczyk was a correspondent for Radio Warsaw. He went underground until the liberation of Poland in the late stages of the war and then resumed his job as a correspondent.
        At the war's end he covered the Potsdam Conference of the victorious Allies and the Nuremberg trials of German leaders, and was a diplomatic correspondent for the Polish press agency and the Polish radio. In subsequent years he was a correspondent in Moscow, Washington and Latin America.
        In 1985, on the 40th anniversary of the United Nations, Mr. Osmanczyk published a 1,059-page Encyclopedia of the United Nations and International Agreements containing more than 7,000 entries and the details of nearly 3,000 treaties and other international agreements. An introduction by Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar called the work ''a formidable accomplishment.'' In the 1970's Mr. Osmanczyk compiled encyclopedias of political affairs in Polish and Spanish.
        Mr. Osmanczyk's survivors include his wife, the former Jolanta Klimowicz, whom he married in 1961.
      