
       Virgil Thomson, whose homespun, subtly sophisticated compositions and witty but trenchant criticism made him a central figure in American intellectual life for 55 years, died early yesterday in his suite at the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan. He was 92 years old, and his health had been in decline for several months.
        Virgil Thomson, whose homespun, subtly sophisticated compositions and witty but trenchant criticism made him a central figure in American intellectual life for 55 years, died early yesterday in his suite at the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan. He was 92 years old, and his health had been in decline for several months.
        As a composer, Mr. Thomson is best known for two operas to texts written by his longtime friend Gertrude Stein: ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' (1934), which earned him a distinction among intellectuals that he never relinquished, and ''The Mother of Us All'' (1947). He also received a Pulitzer Prize - the only one ever awarded for a film score - for his music for ''Louisiana Story'' in 1948.
        Mr. Thomson began sending music reports from Paris to The Boston Evening Transcript in 1921, and continued writing through the 1920's and 30's for journals like Modern Music. His ''State of Music,'' a lively but incisive overview of the musical scene, was published in 1939, and he continued his observations until very recently: his ''Music with Words: A Composer's View,'' is scheduled for publication this month by Yale University Press.
        But the bulk of his journalism came as chief music critic of The New York Herald Tribune from 1940 to 1954. His prose - ''sassy but classy,'' he called it - breathed a mastery of American prose style and a spunkily opinionated expertise that set Mr. Thomson apart from his critical peers. Magnetic Force, Twinkling Eyes
        Beyond his work, Mr. Thomson was a magnetic force within the social world of American intellectuals, with his sharp tongue, twinkling eyes and owlish face and figure. His dinner parties at the Chelsea Hotel were the stuff of legend. He seemed, up to the very end, to know everyone in the worlds of music, art, dance and letters.
        ''The death of Virgil T is a like the death of an American city: it is intolerable,'' said Leonard Bernstein. ''Virgil was loving and harsh, generous and mordant, simple but cynical, son of the hymnal yet highly sophisticated. He will always remain brightly alive in the history of music, if only for the extraordinary influence his witty and simplistic music had on his colleagues. I know that I am one twig on that tree, and I will always cherish and revere Virgil, the source.'' 'Gift for Cracking Square Center'
        Ned Rorem, the composer and a friend of Mr. Thomson's, said yesterday, ''I learned as much from him about being a professional musician as from anyone else.
        ''Using Virgil Thomson as an absolute, only three or four critics come up to par,'' he added. ''They may share Thomson's perception and even exceed his scope, but none boasts his unquenchable panache - his gift for cracking square center with that perfect little Faberge hammer.''
        Betty Allen, a soprano who sang Mr. Thomson's music from the early 1950's and who now runs the Harlem School of the Arts, said: ''He was an intellectual, but his music wasn't pretentious. He had great ideas on the linkage between music and the English language, and the rhythm of it, and he was concerned about people and their lives.''
        Virgil Garnett Thomson was born in Kansas City, Mo., on Nov. 25, 1896. He had his first piano lessons at age 5 from a cousin, Lela Garnett. He had enjoyed making music before any schooling. ''I improvised,'' he related in his autobiography, ''with flat hands and the full arm, always with the pedal down and always loud, bathing in musical sound at its most intense, naming my creations after the Chicago fire and similar events.''
        From the age of 12, he received formal piano instruction from a succession of teachers, and also served as substitute organist at Calvary Baptist Church, which the Thomson family attended, and other Kansas City churches. No Gift for Fiction
        At Central High School in Kansas City, Mr. Thomson honed his writing skills, but soon decided that he had no gift for poetry and fiction, preferring either expository prose or the setting of words to music.
        ''I can describe things and persons, narrate facts, '' he later wrote. ''But I do not assemble my pictures and my people into situations where they take on memorability, which is what storytellers do. Nor can I make a language change its sound or words their meaning, which is the faculty of poets. Language, to me, is merely for telling the truth about something.''
        By the time Mr. Thomson finished high school, World War I had begun, and he enlisted in the National Guard, studying radiotelephony at Columbia University and aviation at the University of Texas. He received overseas orders in September 1918, but the Armistice was signed on Nov. 11 before his troopship embarked for France.
        Instead, in 1919, Mr. Thomson entered Harvard College. There his three most influential teachers were Archibald T. Davison, the French-trained conductor of the Harvard Glee Club; Edward Burlingame Hill, also French-trained, with whom he studied music history and orchestration, and S. Foster Damon, a poet, Blake scholar and composer. Studied With Nadia Boulanger
        ''I remember him bringing me music and books he thought I ought to know,'' Mr. Thomson said of Damon. ''Some of these I found merely informative or charming. Others changed my life. Among these last were the piano works of Erik Satie, a pile of them four inches high, and a thin small volume called 'Tender Buttons' by Gertrude Stein.''
        Harvard had a profound impact on his life. Satie influenced Mr. Thomson's music more than any other composer, and Stein became his most important collaborator, helping shape his musical prosody.
        In 1921, after a tour of Europe with the Harvard Glee Club, Mr. Thomson remained in Paris for a year on a John Knowles Paine Traveling Fellowship. He chose to study organ and counterpoint with a young teacher named Nadia Boulanger, who subsequently became the doyenne of several generations of American composers, from Aaron Copland to Philip Glass. He also befriended Mr. Copland, Jean Cocteau, Darius Milhaud and Francis Poulenc, finding for the first time a circle of likeminded artists and intellectuals in which he felt fully at home.
        Mr. Thomson's move to Paris also helped inaugurate a post-World-War-I shift in American musical allegiances toward France and its neo-classical ideals of lightness, clarity and humor.
        Returning to Harvard in 1922 to complete his bachelor's degree, Mr. Thomson spent a year in New York and another in Boston, as organist and choirmaster of King's Chapel. He also gave the first American performance of Satie's ''Socrate'' with the Harvard Musical Club. In 1925, however, he went back to Paris and remained there, apart from brief visits to the United States, until 1940. 'I Felt at Home in France'
        ''I felt at home in France,'' he explained, ''with its music, its food, its people, its reading and writing.'' For him, it was no sacrifice to abandon the economic security of America for the financial marginality of Parisian Bohemia. ''I prefer to starve where the food is good,'' he said.
        It was in Paris in the mid-1920's that Mr. Thomson's mature style took shape, with the ''Sonata da Chiesa,'' a chamber score; four organ pieces based on Baptist hymns, and the ''Symphony on a Hymn Tune.'' He also cultivated an impressive circle of friends, among them James Joyce, Ezra Pound, Igor Stravinsky and Pablo Picasso. But he disdained the idea of a ''lost generation'' of American artists in exile, which he called ''personal publicity for Ernest Hemingway.''
        ''We were no more lost than any other group of people is at any time,'' he said.
        The key event of this period was his first meeting in 1926 with Stein, to whom he was introduced by the composer George Antheil. They remained close until her death in 1946, except for a four-year estrangement.He had set her poem ''Susie Asado'' before their meeting, and immediately afterward composed music for her ''Preciosilla'' and ''Capital Capitals.'' Stein Wrote Every Word
        The two soon began work on the opera ''Four Saints in Three Acts.'' Stein wrote every word, including the stage directions, and the initial composition was completed by 1928. Originally a plotless effusion by celestial Spanish saints, full of whimsical questions and paradoxical mystical visions, the opera was pruned by Mr. Thomson and fitted to a pageant-like scenario devised by his longtime friend, the painter Maurice Grosser.
        The meeting with Stein crystallized Mr. Thomson's conception of his own best gifts as a composer, which involved the setting of texts - particularly her texts - to a music that mirrored their childlike charm and refined intimations of an America momentarily forsaken but never abandoned.
        ''Poetry alone is always a bit amorphous,'' he wrote, ''and poetry as spontaneously structured as Gertrude Stein's had long seemed to me to need musical reinforcement. I do not mean that her writing lacks music; I mean that it likes music.''
        The premiere of ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' took place at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford on Feb. 8, 1934, and it caused a sensation, which was reinforced by the production's subsequent travels to New York and Chicago. It was Mr. Thomson who decided, after the opera had been conceived and composed, that the cast should be entirely black.
        Still living in Paris, Mr. Thomson subseqently composed a body of instrumental works, especially for string instruments; undertook a series of mostly piano ''portraits'' of friends that sought to capture their spirits in sound, a lifelong preoccupation; collaborated with the documentary film maker Pare Lorentz on two highly acclaimed films, ''The Plow That Broke the Plains'' and ''The River,'' and wrote ''Filling Station'' for Lincoln Kirstein's Ballet Caravan. Style Owed Much to Satie
        His musical style, now fully formed, owed much to Satie and French neo-classicism, but it was original and never bound by orthodoxies imposed by himself or others. In retrospect, the basic concerns and stylistic signatures of his music - open intervals, Baptist hymns, clear and sensitive text-setting, cheerful fanfares, almost proto-Minimalist repetition - seem distinctive enough.
        Mr. Thomson once described Satie's music in terms that suit his own: ''It has eschewed the impressive, the heroic, the oratorical, everything that is aimed at moving mass audiences. It has valued quietude, precision, acuteness of auditory observation, gentleness, sincerity and directness of statement.''
        His last two operas, ''The Mother of Us All'' and ''Lord Byron'' (1972), reached out to a larger public and more expansive level of rhetorical expression. Stein's text for the former paints a moving and more narratively coherent (if still wonderfully quirky) portrait of Susan B. Anthony and the struggle for women's suffrage. Asked later why he had not written more operas with Stein, Mr. Thomson said, ''It had not occured to me that both of us would not always be living.''
        Jack Larson's libretto for ''Lord Byron'' is more conventional in its operatic depiction of personal passion and epic scale. That opera has not received the recognition of the two Stein scores, but Mr. Thomson always cherished it.
        In 1940, with war engulfing Europe, Mr. Thomson returned to the United States, moved into the Chelsea Hotel, at 222 West 23d Street - where his grand apartment, awash with artistic memorabilia, became a cultural landmark - and assumed his critical post at the New York Herald Tribune.
        His tenure there, ended at his own wish, was distinguished by a prose style at once tart, impassioned and instructive. The critical tone in New York then was mostly conservative and oriented toward the analysis of performance. Mr. Thomson concentrated on the music, new music in particular, and was sometimes airily dismissive of the idols of the day -- among them Arturo Toscanini and Vladimir Horowitz, whose pianistic repertory and style he dismissed as ''silk-underwear music.'' Snoozing During Performances
        His opinions were sometimes outrageous and sometimes a little breezy -he liked to give the impression that he was seeing some Wagner operas for the first time, and may well have been. His snoozing during performances was also legendary, although he always insisted that he awoke if anything interesting happened. But his writing was always delightful, and it commanded a readership far beyond musicians and music lovers.
        After 1954 Mr. Thomson continued his composing and his criticism, mainly for The New York Review of Books, although his appearances as a conductor and lecturer were eventually limited by deafness. His Herald Tribune reviews were collected in four books, his autobiography (''Virgil Thomson'') appeared in 1966, later essays appeared in ''American Music Since 1910'' (1971), and ''The Virgil Thomson Reader,'' a selection from his writing, won the National Book Critics Circle award for criticism in 1981. His ''Selected Letters'' appeared in 1988.
        He also received many awards, including 16 honorary doctorates, membership in the National Institute of Arts and Letters and in the French Legion of Honor, and the Kennedy Center Award for Lifetime Achievement.
        His end seemed almost exactly like that of his sister Ruby, who died in 1979 at the age of 93. At that time Mr. Thomson wrote a cousin: ''She was certainly entitled to die, and I am happy that she did not suffer. She merely faded away, largely stopped eating, then one night she didn't breathe anymore.''
        There are no survivors. A memorial service has been planned for Nov. 25 at 3 P.M. in the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. It would have been his 93d birthday.
        Correction:  October 8, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Sunday about the composer and critic Virgil Thomson misidentified a performer whose repertory was dismissed by Mr. Thomson as ''silk-underwear music.''
        Mr. Thomson made the comment about Jascha Heifetz, not Vladimir Horowitz.
      