
       Milton Goldman, a prominent theatrical agent, died of heart failure in his sleep yesterday in Manhattan in his Sutton Place home. He was 75 years old.
        Milton Goldman, a prominent theatrical agent, died of heart failure in his sleep yesterday in Manhattan in his Sutton Place home. He was 75 years old.
        Anna Sosenko, a friend of Mr. Goldman, said she had spoken to him at 12:50 A.M. by telephone, after he came home from attending the opening-night performance of the Martha Graham Dance Company and the party afterward.
        Mr. Goldman was vice president of International Creative Management, known as I.C.M., and head of its theater department. His clients at one time or another included Helen Hayes, Hildegarde, Arlene Dahl, Maureen Stapleton, Mary Martin, Christopher Plummer, Lillian Gish, Ruth Gordon and Kate Reid in the United States; and in England, John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier, Vanessa Redgrave, Tom Courtenay, Albert Finney, Derek Jacobi, Peggy Ashcroft, Jack Hawkins and Wendy Hiller.
        Ms. Sosenko, who was Hildegarde's business partner, said Mr. Goldman was ''one of the greatest theatrical agents.''
        Mr. Goldman was also the president of Martha Graham's Center for Contemporary Dance and on the boards of eight other nonprofit institutions. Gas Station to a Company
        Mr. Goldman was born and grew up in New Brunswick, N.J., and was a graduate of Rutgers University. He worked 10 years in the family's gas station and then met the theatrical lawyer Arnold Weissberger, and began a friendship that lasted 30 years. Mr. Weissberger died at age 73 in 1981.
        Mr. Goldman began his career at A. & S. Lyons, a theatrical agency. He founded his own company in 1955. Through an assortment of incorporations, mergers and buyouts it became I.C.M., of which Mr. Goldman was an employee. When he told the actress Tallulah Bankhead that he had been promoted to vice president, she expressed disappointment, saying, ''I thought you were president.'' Mr. Goldman replied, ''I always act as if I own the place.''
        Surviving is his sister, Isabel Glickman of Edison, N.J.
      