
       Arnold Shaw, a writer about popular music and the founder of the Popular Music Research Center at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, died of cancer on Sept. 26 at his home in Las Vegas. He was 80 years old.
        Arnold Shaw, a writer about popular music and the founder of the Popular Music Research Center at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, died of cancer on Sept. 26 at his home in Las Vegas. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Shaw wrote more than a dozen books and many articles on most of the major currents in 20th-century American popular music. His thematic books included ''Lingo of Tin Pan Alley,'' ''The Rock Revolution,'' ''The World of Soul: Black America's Contribution to the Pop Music Scene,'' ''The Street That Never Slept, 52d Street,'' ''The Rockin' 50's,'' ''Honkers and Shouters: The Rhythm-and-Blues Years,'' ''Black Popular Music in America'' and ''The Jazz Age: Popular Music in the 1920's.''
        He also wrote two books on Frank Sinatra, a biography of Harry Belafonte, a novel called ''The Money Song'' and a ''Dictionary of American Pop/Rock.'' His writings about pop musicians and music were included in biographical dictionaries and publications like Variety.
        Mr. Shaw taught music for about 10 years at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas and founded the Popular Music Research Center in 1985. The center, which he headed until his death, was established to preserve and study books, articles, recordings and memorabilia related to pop music. It also presented concerts and seminars.
        Mr. Shaw began his musical career as a pianist and composer in the 1940's. His later compositions included ''Mobiles'' and ''The Mod Moppet: Seven Nursery Rip-offs.'' During the 1950's and 1960's, he did public relations and advertising for such performers as Elvis Presley, Burt Bacharach and Paul Simon, and was a music publishing executive with the Edward B. Marks Music Corporation. During these years, he lectured at many colleges and produced, wrote and composed two series for a Las Vegas public-television station.
        Surviving are his wife, Ghita, of Las Vegas; two daughters, Mindy Sura of Las Vegas, and Elizabeth Adams of Silver Spring, Md., and two grand-daughters.
      