
       Frederic de Hoffmann, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project, helped develop the hydrogen bomb and later directed the Salk Institute for Biological Studies for 18 years, died of complications of AIDS Wednesday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Frederic de Hoffmann, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project, helped develop the hydrogen bomb and later directed the Salk Institute for Biological Studies for 18 years, died of complications of AIDS Wednesday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Doctors determined that Mr. de Hoffmann had been infected by contaminated blood in transfusions when he underwent heart bypass surgery in 1984, Dianne Carter, a spokeswoman for the Salk Institute, said yesterday. The blood was traced to an infected donor, who has also died. The heart operation took place only a few months before the testing of donated blood for the AIDS virus became routine.
        Plucked out of Harvard College as a 20-year-old undergraduate in 1944, Mr. de Hoffmann was sent to Los Alamos, N.M., to work in secrecy with the team that developed the first atomic bombs.
        In 1951 and 1952 he assisted Edward Teller in the development of the hydrogen bomb. Mr. de Hoffmann's contribution was to work out a mathematical analysis indicating that an approach conceived by Dr. Teller and Stanislaw M. Ulam would work. Atom Bomb and Atomic Energy
        In ''Atomic Shield,'' the official history of the Atomic Energy Commission, Richard G. Hewlett and Francis Duncan wrote that in Mr. de Hoffmann ''Teller had an able and shrewd scientific aide of high managerial and political ability.''
        Mr. de Hoffmann soon became an advocate of peaceful uses of atomic energy. Moving to the General Dynamics Corporation in San Diego in 1955, he persuaded the company's president to found General Atomics to build nuclear reactors for the open market. With Mr. de Hoffmann as president, General Atomics developed a widely used type of nuclear power station.
        He continued to work with nuclear energy as an executive of the Gulf Oil Corporation from 1967 to 1969.
        Then, in an unusual career switch, he left the world of industrial research for the world of fundamental biological research. Joining the Salk Institute in 1970, he built it into one of the world's largest independent centers for biological research. Salk scientists concentrate their studies at the level of the cell and its interaction with other cells and the environment in an effort to learn more about AIDS, immunology, cancer, birth defects, the brain and the nervous system. President of Salk Institute
        In Mr. de Hoffmann's tenure as president, the institute's staff grew to more than 500 from 200, and its budget increased to $33 million annually from $4.5 million. The staff includes four Nobel laureates. He retired from Salk last year.
        He was born July 8, 1924, in Vienna, the son of Otto and Marianne von Hoffmann de Vagujhely. He grew up in Prague and went to a German-speaking gymnasium, or secondary school, where, as an ardent Czechoslovak, he was harassed by young Nazis.
        He came to the United States in 1941 and studied physics at Harvard before joining the Manhattan Project. He received a bachelor's degree at Harvard in 1945, a master's in 1947 and a doctorate in 1948. His two tours at Los Alamos were from 1944 to 1946 and from 1948 to 1955.
        Mr. de Hoffmann, who became a naturalized citizen in 1946, is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Lynn Stewart.
      