
       Manuel Clouthier, the candidate of the right-of-center National Action Party in the 1988 presidential election, was killed today in an automobile accident in northern Mexico, the highway police reported. He was 55 years old.
        Manuel Clouthier, the candidate of the right-of-center National Action Party in the 1988 presidential election, was killed today in an automobile accident in northern Mexico, the highway police reported. He was 55 years old.
        The police report said Mr. Clouthier and another National Action politician were killed when their car collided head-on with a truck on the highway between Culiacan and Mazatlan in Mr. Clouthier's home state of Sinaloa. It said the accident occurred shortly before noon, but gave no other details.
        Silvino Silva, editor of the newspaper Noroeste in Culiacan, the Sinoloa capital, said the police identified the other victim as Javier Calvo Manriquez, the National Action state chairman.
        ''Apparently, Calvo was driving,'' Mr. Silva said in a telephone interview. He said the two men were traveling to Mazatlan to meet with Ernesto Ruffo, the Governor-elect of Baja California, In Third Place in Election Carlos Salinas de Gortari, the candidate of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, won the presidency with slightly more than 50 percent of the vote, while Mr. Clouthier placed third with 17 percent, behind Cuauhtemoc Cardenas of the leftist National Democratic Front, Mr. Clouthier's finish in the vote was disappointing for National Action, but PAN, as the party is known, made history and experienced a resurgence with Mr. Ruffo's victory in Baja California on July 2.
        Mr. Clouthier, a rousing stump speaker known for earthy stories, puns and jokes, campaigned extensively for Mr. Ruffo, who is to become the first opposition state Governor in Mexico in six decades when he is installed in office on Nov. 1.
        Mr. Clouthier and Mr. Ruffo were campaigning in Sinaloa for their party's candidates in races for 18 city mayors on Oct. 15.
        After his defeat in 1988, Mr. Clouthier continued to campaign against election fraud, which he said has kept the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, in power for 60 years. At one point, Mr. Clouthier staged a hunger strike at a major highway intersection in downtown Mexico City. Losing Race for Governor
        Mr. Clouthier had worked to unify his fractious National Action Party into a growing political force and rally Mexico's splintered conservatives.
        A wealthy grower and exporter of tomatoes, chilis and rice, he led efforts by Mexico to increase its exports of fruits and vegetables to the United States.
        Born in Culiacan on June 13, 1934, the descendant of French immigrants, Mr. Clouthier ran for Governor there in 1986 but lost to the Institutional Revolutionary Party candidate in a vote that Clouthier supporters said was marked by widespread fraud by the ruling party.
        He was a fan of American-style football, winning national honors as a 250-pound defensive tackle at the Monterrey Technological Institute, where he earned a degree in agronomy. For more than 10 years he was a leader of the Mexican Employers' Federation council.
        He is survived by his wife, Leticia Carrillo de Clouthier, and 10 children.
      