
       Andrew R. Tyler, a longtime civic leader in Harlem and a retired Justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died Friday at St. Luke's Hospital after a lengthy illness. He was 71 years old and lived in Yonkers.
        Andrew R. Tyler, a longtime civic leader in Harlem and a retired Justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died Friday at St. Luke's Hospital after a lengthy illness. He was 71 years old and lived in Yonkers.
        Justice Tyler's career on the bench was marred by a much-publicized perjury conviction in 1976 that was overturned with a severe rebuke to prosecutors in the case for ''trapping'' him. Mr. Tyler, who was elected to the court in 1969, was reinstated with back pay to serve a term that expired last December.
        A native of Indiana, he was educated at City College, Brooklyn Law School and Columbia University and was admitted to the New York bar in 1945. Before becoming a judge, he served three terms as president of the Harlem Lawyers Association, first vice chairman of the New York Urban League and Democratic delegate-at-large at the 1967 Constitutional Convention in Albany, where he headed the Committee on Bill of Rights and Suffrage. Elected to Civil Court
        He also held the unpaid posts of president and later board chairman of Haryou-Act, which ran most of Harlem's antipoverty programs. He resigned from the agency in 1971, when its management came under harsh criticism from within and outside of Harlem.
        Mr. Tyler was elected to the Civil Court in 1967 with Democratic, Liberal and Conservative support. He won a 14-year term to the State Supreme Court in 1969 with the endorsement of the Republican Party as well.
        In the years that followed, Maurice H. Nadjari, an active and often flamboyant special state prosecutor, set out after corruption in the judiciary. The prosecutor was later ousted and replaced by John F. Keenan. Their office obtained indictments from grand juries against 12 judges. Nine of the indictments were dismissed long before trial; two of the judges were acquitted in court. Charges of Racism
        Only Justice Tyler was convicted, on three counts of perjury, for which he could have received seven years on jail. He was sentenced to five years' probation and pressed his appeal.
        At the time, his family and many friends in Harlem suggested that his was a case of racist persecution.
        In overturning the conviction in 1978, the Court of Appeals in Albany was unanimous. In a severe blow to Mr. Nadjari and Mr. Keenan, who had obtained the actual indictment, the judges accused the prosecution of having trapped Justice Tyler into giving false testimony about his relations to a convicted gambler and numbers-syndicate operator, Raymond Marquez.
        Justice Tyler is survived by his wife, Tracy; four daughters, Andrea, Donna and Pamela Tyler and Sonia Moriarty; two sisters, Edith Mitchell and Anna Gladwyn, and one grandson.
        A funeral service will be held 10:30 A.M. Tuesday at the Unitarian Community Church of New York, 40 East 35th Street.
      