
       Cesare Zavattini, an Italian screenwriter who collaborated on two Academy Award-winning films with the director Vittorio De Sica, died on Friday at the age of 87.
        Cesare Zavattini, an Italian screenwriter who collaborated on two Academy Award-winning films with the director Vittorio De Sica, died on Friday at the age of 87.
        Mr. Zavattini wrote the scripts for ''Shoe-Shine'' (1947) and ''The Bicycle Thief'' (1949), both of which won Oscars for best foreign film.
        Both films explored chaotic urban conditions in the aftermath of World War II, with their stories revolving around tender human relationships.
        ''Shoe-Shine'' told the story of a friendship between an Italian street urchin and an American soldier in occupied Italy. ''The Bicycle Thief'' is the story of a poor bill-poster who spends a desperate Sunday with his child searching the streets of Rome for his stolen bicycle, which is essential to his livelihood. Advocate of Neo-realism
        Mr. Zavattini also wrote the scripts for the De Sica films ''Miracle in Milan'' (1951), a satirical fantasy, and ''Umberto D'' (1955), the story of a civil servant struggling to survive in Rome on a small pension.
        Mr. Zavattini's neo-realistic writings placed him at the center of Italian intellectual life in the late 1940's and 1950's. Neo-realism was an Italian movement whose adherents explored the emotion and pain of mundane elements of human life.
        ''There is a narrow street between reality and imagination'' Mr. Zavattini told an interviewer in discussing Neorealism in 1952.
        ''We have begun to walk straight down that narrow street,'' he said. ''The old realism didn't express the real. What I want to know is the essence, the really real, the inner as well as the outer reality.'' Began as Journalist
        Born in the Po Valley in 1902, Mr. Zavattini began his career as a journalist, editor and writer before devoting most of his energies to his screenplays. For several decades, he was one of his country's most prolific writers for the cinema.
        More recently, he pursued painting, poetry and lithography, but he never lost his interest in film. In 1983, at age 80, he wrote, directed and starred in ''The Truuuuth,'' a film about an escaped lunatic who tries to convince passing strangers that any man's death diminishes all mankind.
      