
       Franco, a Zairian guitarist and band leader who was one of Africa's most popular and influential musicians, died on Thursday in a Brussels hospital after a long illness. He was 51 years old.
        Franco, a Zairian guitarist and band leader who was one of Africa's most popular and influential musicians, died on Thursday in a Brussels hospital after a long illness. He was 51 years old.
        President Mobutu Sese Seko ordered a four-day period of mourning in Zaire, with Government flags at half-staff and the official radio playing soft music. Franco and his group, T.P.O.K. Jazz, created the African pop music called soukous, a lilting rumba-flavored dance style with distinctive silvery guitar lines. He recorded more than 100 albums.
        Franco, whose name originally was L'Okanga La Ndju Pene Luambo Makiadi, began performing publicly when he was 12 years old as the solo guitarist in the group Watam. He made his first album with Watam in 1953, and as his own reputation grew he began performing with his own 10-piece group, T.P.O.K. Jazz, in 1956. Transforming the Rumba
        At first, the music was modeled on the Afro-Cuban rumbas that became popular in West Africa during the 1950's. But along with other bands in what was then the Belgian Congo, Franco re-Africanized the music, transforming the rumba with traditional African rhythms and melodies. Soukous swept West Africa, and in the 1980's it has influenced bands in Europe, the United States and the Caribbean islands as well.
        Through the 1960's and 1970's, Franco and T.P.O.K. Jazz became one of Africa's most popular groups, touring and performing constantly. By 1978, the band had grown to include 23 members. At times, Franco's satirical lyrics offended the Zairian Government, and in 1978 he was imprisoned for two months. Not long after his release, however, he was decorated by Zaire's President for his contribution to the country's music, and in 1980 he was declared a Grand Master of music, one of the country's highest honors. Independence and Accusations
        Among his most successful songs were ''Independence Cha-Cha'' in 1960, about Zairian independence from Belgium, and ''Mario'' in 1985, a litany of accusations addressed to a carefree gigolo by his rich mistress.
        He later wrote ''Beware of AIDS,'' a hit song on the central African pop charts in 1987 that became a battle cry against the disease. He had been living in Belgium since the early 1980's, when he began touring Europe and the United States.
        He is survived by 17 children.
      