
       M. King Hubbert, an award-winning scientist whose work in physics and geology brought radical changes in the petroleum industry, died Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. Dr. Hubbert, who was 86 years old, had been undergoing treatment for a pulmonary embolism.
        M. King Hubbert, an award-winning scientist whose work in physics and geology brought radical changes in the petroleum industry, died Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. Dr. Hubbert, who was 86 years old, had been undergoing treatment for a pulmonary embolism.
        Dr. Hubbert's research in structural geology, the mechanics of earth deformation and the physics of underground movement of fluids led to sweeping changes in the way oil and gas are produced.
        His paper, ''Theory of Ground Water Motion,'' published in 1940, helped change methods of gas and oil exploration by showing that oil and gas flowed through cracks and pores in rocks and did not remain in static, subterranean pools as had been thought.
        Dr. Hubbert's work also led to his prediction in 1948 that worldwide supplies of petroleum were limited and that the United States would run short of petroleum in the 1970's, making the nation dependant on foreign oil.
        His repeated warnings in 1956, 1962 and 1967 went generally unheeded. It was not until the Arab oil embargo of 1973 that the full impact of his message was realized. Government agencies scaled back their estimates of gas and oil resources in the United States, and the nation began an energy policy that stressed conservation.
        Dr. Hubbert received the Rockefeller Public Service Award in 1977 and Columbia University's ''premier award for earth science,'' the Vetlesen Prize, in 1981.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and was the author of many articles in professional journals.
        Marion King Hubbert was born in San Saba, Tex. on Oct. 5, 1903, and earned undergraduate and graduate degrees at the University of Chicago. He earned a Ph.D. in geology and physics in 1937. Taught Geophysics at Columbia
        After working several years for the Amerada Petroleum Corporation, which later became the Amerada Hess Corporation, he became a teaching assistant at the University of Chicago. He joined the faculty of Columbia University in 1931 and taught geophysics until 1941.
        Dr. Hubbert was a senior analyst with the United States Board of Economic Warfare before becoming a research geophysicist with the Shell Oil Company in 1943. He worked with Shell in a variety of capacities until his mandatory retirement in 1964.
        He then became a research geophysicist with the United States Geological Survey and also taught at Stanford University. He retired in 1976.
        Dr. Hubbert is survived by his wife, Miriam; two sisters, Nell Jessup of Los Angeles and Dorothy Colin of Adrian, Tex., and two brothers, Leo Hubbert of Torrance, Calif., and Jack Hubbert of Ballinger, Tex.
      