
       Armand Berard, a former French delegate to the United Nations, died this morning at his home in Neuilly, a suburb of Paris. He was 85 years old.
        Armand Berard, a former French delegate to the United Nations, died this morning at his home in Neuilly, a suburb of Paris. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Berard, educated as a historian and geographer, and an archeologist by avocation, became a lifelong professional diplomat. He joined the French Foreign Ministry at the age of 27 in 1931 and served France for more than four decades in diplomatic posts in many countries.
        His first overseas post was as an attache to the French Embassy in Berlin in the 1930's, covering the first five years of the Hitler regime.
        Mr. Berard was again posted in Germany in 1940-41. He worked briefly in an underground group in the Foreign Ministry until he was able to escape across Spain to Algiers to join the Free French. He returned to Paris immediatedly after its liberation. First Came to U.S. in 1938
        He came to the United States for the first time in April 1938 as second secretary of the French Embassy but remained only until the beginning of 1939, when he was transferred to the embassy in Rome.
        He returned to the United States in 1945, serving as first counselor, and later counselor, to the French Embassy in Washington. During this period he spent several months at the United Nations assisting the French delegate, Henry Bonnet.
        From 1949 to 1955, Mr. Berard returned to Germany, serving as deputy high commissioner in the French occupation zone of West Germany, dealing primarily with Berlin.
        Mr. Berard served two tours in New York as the French delegate to the United Nations from 1959 to 1962 and from 1967 to 1970. One of his primary tasks was assisting African nations as new members of the world organization.
        He served as the French Ambassador to Japan from 1956 to 1959 and to Italy from 1962 to 1967. Son of Noted Hellenist
        A Greek scholar by tradition - his father, Victor Berard, was a noted Hellenist and a translator of the Odyssey - Mr. Berard was fluent in German, English, Spanish and Italian.
        He was born in Paris on May 2, 1904, and was named Armand Max Jean Berard, but he later discarded the two middle names. He was a graduate of the Ecole Normale Superieure, an elite school that trains college professors. He also studied briefly at Heidelberg and at the School of Advanced Hispanic Studies in Madrid.
        He is survived by his wife, Isabelle; two daughters, Marie-Alice Leclercq of Neuilly, whose husband, Patrick Leclercq, is a former French Ambassador to Jordan and now heads the Middle Eastern Section of the French Foreign Ministry, and Monique Kinsolving of Manhattan, a vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank, and four grandchildren.
      