
       Paul Shyre, a playwright, director and actor who specialized in character anthologies, died of septisimia, infections linked with AIDS, yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Paul Shyre, a playwright, director and actor who specialized in character anthologies, died of septisimia, infections linked with AIDS, yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Shyre adapted to the stage, directed and co-produced the Sean O'Casey novels ''Pictures in the Hallway,'' ''I Knock at the Door'' and ''Drums Under the Windows,'' the John Dos Passos anthology ''U.S.A.'' and John Hersey's ''The Child Buyer,'' and directed and co-produced the O'Casey plays ''Purple Dust'' and ''Cock-a-Doodle Dandy,'' Eugene O'Neill's ''The Long Voyage Home'' and August Strindberg's ''Creditors.''
        Reviewing Mr. Shyre's adaptation of O'Casey's ''Drums Under the Windows,'' Howard Taubman of The New York Times wrote that ''words that brood and laugh and sing cascaded from the stage of the Cherry Lane Theater last night. They were from the pen of that boisterous, rebellious boyo, Sean O'Casey, and you won't hear anything more eloquent in any theater in town. Paul Shyre made and staged the adaptation so that the excellent jest and infinite fancy of O'Casey glow with an insistent flame.''
        Mr. Shyre's other dramatizations included ''A Whitman Portrait,'' ''An Unpleasant Evening with H. L. Mencken,'' ''Will Rogers's U.S.A.'' and ''Blasts and Bravos: An Evening with H. L. Mencken,'' with Mr. Shyre appearing as the celebrated journalist, and ''Hizzoner!,'' about Fiorello H. La Guardia.
        Clive Barnes concluded that ''if you like words, admire arguments and have a love of skepticism that even goes beyond the call of truth and just simply like a man being funny, you ought to like this Mencken show with Paul Shyre. If you don't - well, it takes all sorts to make a world, but some sorts we can do without. Conformists, for a start.''
        Mr. Shyre was a native of Manhattan, a graduate of the University of Florida at Gainesville and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and a former professor of theater arts at Cornell University. His awards included a Tony, an Emmy, an Obie, a Drama Desk citation and awards from Brandeis University and the San Francisco film festival.
        Mr. Shyre is survived by cousins, including Robert and Mary Andrews, of Las Vegas, Nev.; Edward and Carol Schmiedecke of Manhattan, and Robert and Carol Rines of Concord, N.H.
      