
       Lawrence A. (Pat) Hyland, a pioneer in radar technology and aircraft communications who made the Hughes Aircraft Company an industrial giant, died at Antelope Valley Hospital here Friday after suffering a heart attack earlier in the week. He was 92 years old and lived in this Los Angeles suburb.
        Lawrence A. (Pat) Hyland, a pioneer in radar technology and aircraft communications who made the Hughes Aircraft Company an industrial giant, died at Antelope Valley Hospital here Friday after suffering a heart attack earlier in the week. He was 92 years old and lived in this Los Angeles suburb.
        Mr. Hyland was vice president and chief executive of Hughes from 1954 to 1976, and was named the aerospace concern's president and chairman after its founder, Howard R. Hughes, died in 1976.
        Mr. Hyland retired in 1984, assuming the title of chairman emeritus, and continued to work out of his office several times a week.
        Under his leadership, Hughes Aircraft grew from a modest producer of airborne fire control systems to the nation's largest military electronics company and a leading builder of communications satellites. Role in Developing Radar
        Mr. Hyland, who held only honorary degrees, had an early patent that contributed to the development of radio detecting and ranging - radar - in which radio signals are bounced off distant objects. His discovery, in 1932, was that the reflection of radio waves from an aircraft in flight would disclose not only the craft's presence but also its position.
        That was an enormous step in radar's military application. Years later it led the Navy, for which he was working when he made the discovery, to award him its highest civilian honor, the Distinguished Public Service Award.
        Lawrence Avison Hyland was born in Nova Scotia on Aug. 26, 1897, and was brought to the United States by his family when he was 2. He attended high school in Melrose, Mass., and, for a time, Boston University Law School. A 'Blind-Landing' System
        He was a sergeant in Army field artillery in World War I, taking part in five campaigns with the Second Division in France. He then joined the Navy and was a chief radioman from 1920 to 1926, a period in which he helped demonstrate a system for aircraft to land ''blind'' when low cloud ceilings and fog limited what pilots could see.
        Upon leaving the Navy's military service in 1926, he joined the Naval Research Laboratory as a radio engineer. He was an employee of the laboratory when he demonstrated the reflection of radio waves from aircraft in 1932. Patents on Inventions
        Mr. Hyland also held patents on inventions that enabled fliers to communicate with one another in the air and with the ground via radio, and to determine their altitude during ''blind'' landings. Many of his developments were adopted in standard aircraft electronics systems.
        He founded the Radio Research Company in Washington in 1932 and headed it until it merged with the Bendix Corporation five years later. He spent 17 years as a Bendix executive, becoming vice president in charge of engineering before joining Hughes.
        He is survived by his wife, Muriel, and a daughter, Ginger.
      