
       Carl C. Dauterman, curator emeritus of Western European art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died of lymphoma on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Carl C. Dauterman, curator emeritus of Western European art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died of lymphoma on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        A well-known curator, writer and lecturer in the field of decoration and design, Mr. Dauterman was an authority on Sevres porcelain. His book ''Sevres Porcelain: Makers and Marks in the 18th Century,'' was published by the Metropolitan in 1986. He also wrote the section on porcelains for the catalogue of the Kress Collection, published in 1964, and was the author of the fourth volume, dealing with porcelains, of the Wrightsman Collection catalogue, published in 1966.
        Born in Newark, Mr. Dauterman studied sculpture and model making at the Newark School of Fine and Applied Art, and later earned a master's degree in art history from Columbia University. Worked at the Cooper-Hewitt
        From 1938 to 1942, he served as manager of special exhibitions at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and then became a catalogue writer in the field of decorative objects for the Parke-Bernet Galleries. He joined the Metropolitan as special administrative consultant to the director in 1953, later becoming a curator in the department of European sculpture and decorative arts. After his retirement from the museum in 1973, he was named curator emeritus.
        Mr. Dauterman taught courses in European and American decorative arts at the Metropolitan for Columbia University, and also in the master's degree program at the Cooper-Hewitt.
        Surviving are his wife, Felicia Sterling Dauterman; three daughters: Eunice Dauterman Maguire of Champaign-Urbana, Ill.; Dana Ricciardi of Quincy, Mass., and Merrill E. Wheeler of Loughborough, England, and five grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, Fifth Avenue and 90th Street, on Dec. 16 at 2 P.M.
      