
       John Louis Wilson Jr., an architect who designed several public buildings in New York City, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        John Louis Wilson Jr., an architect who designed several public buildings in New York City, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Wilson was one of the architects of the Harlem River Houses at 151st Street and the Harlem River Drive. Now designated a landmark, the Harlem River Houses, which were finished in 1937, were the first federally financed housing project.
        The project set a standard for low-income housing, through its low-rise structure, community rooms, spacious plazas and apartments designed for privacy and comfort. ''We tried to create a humane architecture,'' Mr. Wilson said later.
        Among his other designs were the Morris Park Apartments, a housing project for the elderly, and the Throgs Neck Public Library. Mississippi Native
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Wilson was a founder and president of the Council for Advancement of Negroes in Architecture, which later merged with the American Institute of Architects. From 1967 to 1970, Mr. Wilson was chairman of the institute's equal opportunities committee and helped raise money for a scholarship fund to help minority group members study architecture.
        Born in Meridian, Miss., Mr. Wilson grduated from what is now Dillard University and from the Columbia School of Architecture. He worked for the New York City Department of Parks until 1960 and also maintained a private practice.
        Mr. Wilson was a fellow of the American Institute of Architects. In 1980, he was honored by the New York Coalition of Black Architects for his works. In 1984 he received the the A.I.A.'s Whitney M. Young Jr. citation. He was a trustee of the Emanuel Pieterson Historical Society, an educational organization.
        He is survived by a daughter, Judith W. Rogers of Washington, chief judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals, and two sisters, Deliah Gulley of Ashdown, Ark., and Emma Strother of Philadelphia.
      