
       Dr. J. C. Street, a co-discoverer of a fundamental particle of matter known as the muon, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Charleston, S.C. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. J. C. Street, a co-discoverer of a fundamental particle of matter known as the muon, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Charleston, S.C. He was 83 years old.
        The discovery, made at Harvard University in 1937 by Dr. Street and Dr. E. C. Stevenson, created a sensation in physics. The particle penetrated deep into the earth and seemed to be the prime constituent of cosmic rays raining on the earth from all directions. Further evidence for the muon was reported the same year by Carl D. Anderson and S. H. Neddermeyer of the California Institute of Technology.
        In most respects the particle resembles the electron, the tiniest constituent of matter, but it is heavier. The muon has now been assigned to a family of particles slightly heavier than those from which ordinary matter is made. It occurs with both positive and negative electric charges.
        Dr. Street guessed that muons detected at the earth's surface are produced by very high-energy collisions by some other type of particle striking the top of the atmosphere, and that is now the prevailing view. Developed Radar Systems
        Dr. Street was also active in other fields. In 1944, at the Radiation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he headed the group that developed ground and ship radar systems. While at M.I.T., he also directed production of the prototype Loran Navigation System, which is now in use worldwide for navigating ships and planes. For a time he also worked at a radiation laboratory in Britain.
        After the war he became chairman of the physics department at Harvard and acting director of the Cambridge Electron Accelerator. He developed a variety of devices used in high-energy physics research, like the coincidence detector that makes it possible to screen out the constant rain of muons when the goal is to detect particles of another type.
        A giant detector 2,000 feet under the edge of Lake Erie records about 2.7 muons a second and these must be ignored to detect particles from other events. In recent years physicists have reported that muons seem to be coming primarily from certain directions in the sky and might be generated by a new, mysterious cosmic ray that, unlike most cosmic rays, reaches the earth in a straight line from its source.
        Jabez Curry Street was born in Opelika, Ala. He received a bachelor of science degree from Alabama Polytechnique Institute in 1927 and worked for the next year as an electrical engineer with the Brooklyn Edison Power Company. He obtained his doctorate at the University of Virginia in 1931 and for a year was a fellow at the Bartol Research Foundation, where he began his lifelong study of cosmic rays. He then joined Harvard for an association that lasted on and off from 1932 until his retirement in 1976.
        He is survived by his wife, Leila; a son, Curry, of Boston; a daughter, Caroline Trickey of Chagrin Falls, Ohio, and three grandchildren.
      