
       Dr. Walter Robert Tkach, a former White House physician who served three Presidents, died of heart disease Nov. 1 at his home at Scripps Ranch. He was 72 years old.
        Dr. Walter Robert Tkach, a former White House physician who served three Presidents, died of heart disease Nov. 1 at his home at Scripps Ranch. He was 72 years old.
        A retired Air Force major general who flew into combat zones in the Vietnam War to help the wounded, Dr. Tkach was an assistant White House physician in the eight years of the Eisenhower Administration and the first eight months of the Kennedy Administration. He was senior White House doctor during Richard M. Nixon's years in office.
        A native of LaBelle, Pa., Dr. Tkach (pronounced tuh-KAWSH) received his medical degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1945 and then joined the Army. During the United States occupation of Japan, Dr. Tkach ran the medical dispensary at Gen. Douglas MacArthur's headquarters in Tokyo.
        He transferred to the Air Force in 1949, received training in aerospace and aviation medicine and spent the Korean War years as a base flight surgeon at Sewart Air Force Base in Tennessee. Began at White House in 1952
        Dr. Tkach began his White House service in 1952. Eight months into President John F. Kennedy's Administration, he left the White House for Hickam Air Force Base in Hawaii, where he was deputy surgeon of Pacific Air Forces.
        He became command surgeon of the 7th Air Force at what was then Tan Son Nhut Air Base in South Vietnam. Dr. Tkach often flew directly to combat areas to treat the wounded.
        With Mr. Nixon's election in 1968, Dr. Tkach, a friend of the Nixon family, returned to the White House as the President's physician. The President's most serious illness in this period was a bout with phlebitis, an inflammation of a vein in his left leg, that became known on a trip to the Middle East in June 1974. The condition required Mr. Nixon's hospitalization in California after he resigned later that year.
        After Mr.'s Nixon resignation, Dr. Tkach became command surgeon for the Air Force Systems Command at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington.
        In 1979, he retired and moved to San Diego.
        His first wife, Helen, died in 1971. He is survived by his wife, Cheryle, whom he married in 1973, and three sons, Marc, Jonathan and John Robert.
        Dr. Tkach will be buried with full military honors next Tuesday at Arlington National Cemetery, relatives said.
      