
       Federico von Berzeviczy-Pallavicini, a decorative artist, theater-set designer and art director, was found dead yesterday in his apartment in Manhattan, apparently of a heart attack. He was 80 years old.
        Federico von Berzeviczy-Pallavicini, a decorative artist, theater-set designer and art director, was found dead yesterday in his apartment in Manhattan, apparently of a heart attack. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Pallavicini's sophisticated, delicate and imaginative designs appeared on packaging and wrapping papers, porcelain and fabrics. They were also translated into stylish theater costumes and sets.
        In 1950, he created Flair magazine for Fleur Cowles. The design of the short-lived magazine was unusual for techniques like unfolding pages that revealed pictures and a gatefold that revealed a cross-section of an apartment building.
        He was also a stylist for Look magazine, had paintings exhibited in galleries in New York and Chicago and, in 1955, became art director of Elizabeth Arden, the cosmetics company. From 1956 to 1965, he was an artistic consultant and interior designer for Helena Rubinstein and decorated rooms in her apartment on Park Avenue. In 1978, Mr. Pallavicini created the sets and costumes for the Vienna State Opera's production of ''The Young Lord.'' Displays for Pastry Shop
        Born Friedrich Ludwig von Berzeviczy on April 12, 1909, in Lausanne, Switzerland, Mr. Pallavicini studied fine arts in Vienna. In the late 20's, the architect Josef Hoffmann introduced him to Demel, the famous pastry shop, for which Mr. Pallavicini created fanciful window displays, wrapping papers and packaging. In 1936, he married Klara, a niece of Anna Demel.
        After moving to Italy in the late 30's, Mr. Pallavicini adopted his mother's name and pursued a career as a magazine illustrator and art director, working for publications like Bellezza, Domus, Fili and Scena Illustrata. He came to this country in the 40's.
        At his death, Mr. Pallavicini was working on his memoirs.
        His wife died in 1965. There are no survivors.
      