
       Robert Penn Warren, the poet, novelist, critic and teacher, was remembered yesterday in a memorial service at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine as a man of great warmth, generosity and humor, and as a writer who did not hesitate to address the issues of his time.
        Robert Penn Warren, the poet, novelist, critic and teacher, was remembered yesterday in a memorial service at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine as a man of great warmth, generosity and humor, and as a writer who did not hesitate to address the issues of his time.
        Mr. Warren, the nation's first Poet Laureate and the winner of three Pulitzer Prizes, died of cancer on Sept. 15 at the age of 84.
        ''I'm here because I loved 'Red' Warren,'' said Robert Brustein, one of the guests, as he walked up the shadowy, arched aisles of the cathedral to muted organ music. ''I loved him, and I loved his work. This was a profound loss to the country and to letters.''
        Mr. Brustein, the director of the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass., was one of about 75 friends, colleagues and readers of Mr. Warren who attended the service, held in the Great Choir not far from the church's Muriel Rukeyser Poetry Wall. Others attending the service included Eleanor Clark, the novelist, who is Mr. Warren's widow; their daughter, Rosanna, a poet; the novelist Ralph Ellison; William Phillips, the critic and a founder of The Partisan Review; the poets Alastair Reid, J. D. McClatchy and Rika Lesser; the economist and writer John Kenneth Galbraith and the composer Vittorio Rieti. Links to the Cathedral
        The Very Rev. James Parks Morton, dean of the cathedral, said that the church had decided to hold a memorial because of a connection with the poet that went back to the late 1970's, when Mr. Warren contributed a poem to the cathedral's ''Spirit of the City'' program honoring people who had contributed to the welfare of New York City. Mr. Warren later wrote a play, ''An Easter Satire,'' that was performed by the Cathedral Players, and he was one of the electors who name American poets to the cathedral's Poets Corner, modeled after the memorial in Westminster Abbey.
        Most of the seven speakers read poems by Mr. Warren - celebrations of nature, and ironic and mystical musings on life. Cleanth Brooks, the educator and writer, talked of Mr. Warren's ''incredible energy.'' He recalled that on a visit to the poet in a hospital this year, he had found Mr. Warren in bed ''not reading detective novels but working on poems.''
        The other speakers were John Hollander, Stanley Kunitz, William Jay Smith, Mark Strand, Derek Walcott and Daniel Hoffman, the cathedral's poet in residence. The service also included a musical tribute organized by the pianist Charles Wadsworth, a longtime family friend.
        Mr. Walcott quoted a speech by the poet Seamus Heaney on the occasion of Mr. Warren's appointment as Poet Laureate, a post he held from 1986 to 1988. ''There is roughage in his poetry,'' Mr. Heaney wrote. ''There is subject matter. There is an encounter with the world.''
      