
       Prince Franz Josef II of Liechtenstein, head of state of the tiny principality in a half century that saw it become one of the world's richest nations, died Monday, the Government said today. He was 83 years old.  The ruler's death after a long, undisclosed illness came less than a month after his wife, Princess Gina, died at 67.
        Prince Franz Josef II of Liechtenstein, head of state of the tiny principality in a half century that saw it become one of the world's richest nations, died Monday, the Government said today. He was 83 years old.  The ruler's death after a long, undisclosed illness came less than a month after his wife, Princess Gina, died at 67. The Prince's poor condition had prevented him from attending her funeral.
        Franz Josef II was the 12th ruler of the 270-year-old nation, the last remnant of the Holy Roman Empire. The principality covers 61 square miles of rolling land and rugged mountains between Switzerland and Austria.
        His 51 years as head of state spanned the rise of this tiny democratic state from an underdeveloped and rural country to a sophisticated industrialized nation and tax and banking haven with one of the world's highest per-capita incomes. 'A Happy, Small Country'
        He enjoyed great popularity among the 28,000 inhabitants, often mixing with them in the streets of Vaduz, the capital.
        ''I am ruling over a happy country,'' the Prince, defined by the Constitution as ''hallowed and sacrosanct,'' once said in a rare interview. ''It is a happy country because it is small.''
        In 1984 he gave his executive powers to his son, Crown Prince Hans Adam, the oldest of his and Princess Gina's five children. But he retained the ceremonial role of head of state, and continued to meet many well-wishers every year at the festivities marking his birthday on Aug. 16, a public holiday. Hans Adam now becomes monarch.  The Constitution gave Franz Josef the right to veto any piece of legislation. But throughout his reign he used the veto only once, to kill a law on hunting rights.
        ''It was a silly law,'' he explained. ''It would have turned every garden into a shooting ground.'' Born in Austria in 1906
        Born in 1906 at Frauenthal Castle, Austria, he took office in 1938, succeeding his uncle, Prince Franz.
        Franz Josef took over a country that was so poor that the Government once tried in vain to mortgage the Government building, which also served as a prison. His father had once sold part of the family jewels to bail out the Government.
        The young prince, a nephew of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, whose assassination in Sarajevo,helped provoke World War I, faced his first challenge in 1938 after Austria became part of Nazi Germany.
        He used his powers to force the formation of a national coalition government after the German Anschluss, and paid an official visit to Hitler in March 1939.
        He reminisced once that the visit prompted the Nazis to ''leave us alone because it flattered Hitler's ego.'' Hitler 'Ill at Ease'
        He recalled that Hitler was ''visibly ill at ease'' and ''did not make any impression at all'' in 90 minutes of small talk in the Berlin Reich Chancellery. Like neighboring Switzerland, Liechtenstein was neutral in World War II.
        After the war, Franz Josef led the country in resisting Soviet demands to extradite about 500 Russians, including Grand Duke Vladimir Cyrillovich, heir to the throne of All the Russias, who had sought shelter in Liechtenstein.
        The British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said that Liechtenstein thus was the only country that refused to join in what he called one of the ''great betrayals.'' Franz Josef spoke of this as a ''proud chapter'' in history.
        His family lost extensive property in Czechoslovakia when it was nationalized after the Communist takeover of the country.
        But the family's collection of 1,400 paintings by Rubens, Van Dyck and others - whose current estimated value is $150 million - was saved when it was moved from Austria to Liechtenstein in 1944. A Devout Roman Catholic
        Despite his personal wealth, Franz Josef stuck to a simple way of life that helped keep his name out of the gossip columns of the international press.
        He was a practicing Roman Catholic who started every day by attending Mass in the chapel at his 13th-century castle 360 feet above Vaduz.
        While opposing any liberalization of the country's abortion laws, he was an outspoken champion of women's rights and began pressing for female suffrage in the 1950's. This was grudgingly accepted by Liechtenstein's men in a 1984 referendum.
        He was a keen sportsman who served for more than 35 years on the International Olympic Committee and even late in life enjoyed downhill skiing each winter.
      