
       Carl A. Morse, a New York construction executive whose career spanned more than 60 years, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his office on Madison Avenue. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Carl A. Morse, a New York construction executive whose career spanned more than 60 years, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his office on Madison Avenue. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Morse retired as chairman and chief executive of Morse Diesel Inc., one of the world's largest building construction companies, in December 1987. He then operated a pro-bono consulting business and pursued several philanthropic causes.
        Among the largest projects of Morse Diesel and its predecessors were the Pan Am Building atop Grand Central Terminal, the Sears Tower in Chicago and the National Gallery of Art in Washington. Mr. Morse played a significant role in the completion of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts as an unpaid construction consultant for 20 years.
        Mr. Morse started his career in 1925, when he graduated from Yale's Sheffield Scientific School with a civil engineering degree at the age of 19. He went to work for Bing & Bing, then a New York real-estate giant, as assistant superintendent of construction on the Hotel Manger on Seventh Avenue. It later became the Hotel Taft. Manhattan Skyscrapers
        Mr. Morse recalled in later years that one of his first decisions on the job was to grow a mustache to appear mature enough to be a member of middle management.
        He remained with Bing & Bing for 27 years, rising to become general superintendent of all its construction work. Afterward he joined the Diesel Construction Company in 1952 as vice president. There, along with Erwin S. Wolfson, one of the city's major builders of office towers, he directed construction of several Manhattan skyscrapers, including the Pan Am Building.
        After becoming president of Diesel in 1958, he created Carl A. Morse Inc., a construction consulting company, which he later merged with Diesel to form Morse Diesel Inc. The company erected the Philip Morris Building on Park Avenue at 42d Street, the Helmsley Palace Hotel and the Marriott Marquis, among other buildings.
        Mr. Morse was a pioneer in construction management, which coordinates the many components of large building projects. He was also credited with radically changing the planning and buying of construction elements to cut costs. Lincoln Center History
        In the early 1960's Mr. Morse was recruited by John D. Rockefeller 3d, the first chairman of Lincon Center, who was struggling to coordinate the center's several building projects. Many years later he recalled that Mr. Rockefeller said to him:
        ''Carl, we're looking for a real S.O.B. to come in and take charge and get this place built.''
        ''Well, John,'' Mr. Morse replied, ''if you'll call me Mr. S.O.B. I'll do the job on the house.''
        Besides supporting Lincoln Center for more than two decades, he made many major gifts to Yale, including endowing a professorship in engineering. He also helped to establish the Stephen I. Morse Institute for Molecular Biology and Genetics at the State University of New York Health Science Center, formerly Downstate Medical Center, in Brooklyn. The institute is named for Mr. Morse's late son, a physician who was chairman of the center's department of microbiology for 11 years.
        Mr. Morse is survived by his wife, the former Belle Orgel; a daughter, Susan Berson, of Manhattan, six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      