
       Andrei D. Sakharov, the indomitable human-rights campaigner who prevailed in official exile to become a relentless prod to the Soviet Union's new congress, died apparently of a heart attack late Thursday after a long and wearying legislative day. He was 68 years old and lived in Moscow.
        Andrei D. Sakharov, the indomitable human-rights campaigner who prevailed in official exile to become a relentless prod to the Soviet Union's new congress, died apparently of a heart attack late Thursday after a long and wearying legislative day. He was 68 years old and lived in Moscow.
        The nuclear physicist and Nobel laureate was respected worldwide as this nation's dissident ''voice of conscience'' through more than a decade of flinty resistance and of protesting the Soviet regime's human-rights abuses of its own people.
        ''I am very tired,'' Mr. Sakharov said Thursday in the midst of another characteristic personal battle, that time to see the creation of a genuine opposition movement in the Congress of Peoples Deputies. 'A Historical Figure'
        There, the brilliant scientist who led this nation's anti-war movement had sat in a sixth-row aisle seat, the better to arise in protest of some of the more imperious announcements of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader who freed Dr. Sakharov from years of internal exile in the closed city of Gorky in 1987, thus establishing in a single stroke the credibility of the Gorbachev era in the Kremlin.  [ A White House spokesman, Roman Popadiuk, read a statement praising Dr. Sakharov: ''Andrei Sakharov is a historical figure who will be long remembered for his human-rights efforts in the Soviet Union. His voice was an important dimension in the contemporary changes under way in Soviet society.'' ]  Work on Soviet Hydrogen Bomb ''I am going to live as I lived before and pursue all of my activities,'' Dr. Sakharov said on his release from exile almost three years ago. He did so with a vehemence that reached far beyond the health warnings of his physicians.
        He immediately demanded further democratization of Soviet society from Mr. Gorbachev, ran for the new congress and began a mixed relationship with the Soviet leader, supporting his overall program of changes while complaining regularly that too much power remained centered in the Kremlin.
        Dr. Sakharov reached the pinnacle of scientific prestige three decades ago as a leading theoretical physicist and key member of the team that developed the Soviet Union's hydrogen bomb. But in 1968, he was removed from secret defense work after circulating an essay titled, ''Thoughts on Progress, Peaceful Co-Existence and Intellectual Freedom.''
        After years of similar protest over Soviet living conditions and Kremlin political strategies, Dr. Sakharov was exiled to the closed city of Gorky on Jan. 22, 1980. The immediate cause was anger in the Government of the Soviet leader, Leonid I. Brezhnev, over his continued denunciation of the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. 'There Are No Guarantees'
        That solidified his role as a moral individualist, because from Gorky he managed to issue continuing criticism of the Kremlin. His release by Mr. Gorbachev was a landmark event in the era of gradual democratization still under way and still far from complete, an era for which Dr. Sakharov styled himself part shephard, part hector.
        ''The slogan, 'Don't hamper Gorbachev's efforts' seems to be very popular with intellectuals and our friends abroad,'' he said in an interview last year. ''But I think it is a dangerous slogan, dangerous for Gorbachev as well,'' he said, warning against the concentration of power the Soviet leader felt he needed to bring about change.
        ''Today it will be Gorbachev,'' he said. ''Tomorrow, it may be somebody else, and there are no guarantees - we must be frank about this - no guarantees.''
        It was just such anxiety about the lack of each day's guarantees in this hard-pressed nation that drove him to his feet in the congress, ignoring the jeers at times from the chamber's majority of Communist Party stalwarts, moving to the rostrum to demand to be heard.
        There, Mr. Gorbachev felt obliged to yield the microphone. In the last such encounter on Tuesday, Mr. Gorbachev lost patience and cut short Dr. Sakharov. He waved a pile of protest telegrams at the Soviet leader and went back to his seat warning Mr. Gorbachev about the need to end the Communist Party's continuing monopoly on political power. Sought East-West Collaboration
        Dr. Sakharov argued for decades that the East and West could collaborate on a better system combining economic justice idealized by Socialism with the liberties of real democracy.
        Once restored to his two-room apartment here on Chkalova with his wife and partner in civil protest, Yelena G. Bonner, Dr. Sakharov immediately turned to the cases of dissidents still in labor camps and psychiatric hospitals.
        He spent more than 12 hours a day in the current uphill fight to legitimize the principle of formal political opposition in this one-party nation. He also found time to draw up a model Soviet constitution, to call throughout the world to keep in touch with the human-rights cause, to look out into the nation for fresh arrests of civil-rights protesters and keep some of their names before the public. Taking Gorbachev at His Word
        Mr. Gorbachev, realizing how important Dr. Sakharov was for his own credibility, turned to him often, sometimes finding qualified support that enraged more monolithic-minded Soviet emigres, more often eliciting fresh complaint.
        ''Dr. Sakharov can still be counted on to quietly terrorize his hosts with his integrity,'' an expert on the Soviet Union concluded when Dr. Sakharov began his new role as an elected official.
        Upon his release from exile in Gorky on the Volga River, Dr. Sakharov said he would take Mr. Gorbachev at his word. ''He told me to work for the public good - that is the formula he used,'' said Dr. Sakharov, who followed the request to the letter.
        In that he was often dissatisfied but usually optimistic.
        ''The times are changing slowly and, in some ways not at all,'' he said two years ago, before Mr. Gorbachev began opening the Communist political system to competitive election and limited democratization. ''But the changes are real.'' ----Reaction From Relatives Word of Dr. Sakharov's death reached the United States on Thursday night when Mrs. Bonner called members of her family in a suburb of Boston from Moscow.
        Liza Semyonov, Mrs. Bonner's daughter-in-law who lives in Westwood, Mass., said Mrs. Bonner called about 6 P.M. Thursday to notify the family. Ms. Semyonov is married to Alexey Semyonov, Mrs. Bonner's son.
        ''I don't know what more to say,'' Ms. Semyonov said. ''She didn't give any more details.''
        Mrs. Bonner's daughter, Tatiana Yankelevich, lives in nearby Newton. Her husband, Yefrem Yankelevich, said family members planned to fly to Moscow today.
        Mr. Yankelevich said that Mrs. Bonner said Dr. Sakharov appeared to be fine when he returned home earlier in the everning.
        ''We believe it was his heart,'' he said.
        Dr. Sakharov suffered from angina, but during a visit to the United States in December 1988, doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital performed cardiovascular tests and determined that he did not need heart surgery or a pacemaker.
      