
       Arnold Moss, the popular classical actor, died of lung cancer Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        Arnold Moss, the popular classical actor, died of lung cancer Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        A man of richly diverse talents, Mr. Moss was best known for his sensitive interpretations of roles from Shakespeare's ''King Lear,'' ''The Tempest,'' ''Twelfth Night'' and ''Measure for Measure.''
        Essentially a stage actor, Mr. Moss also worked in other areas of the performing arts, as a narrator-soloist, director, producer and writer. His long career included many films, radio shows and television performances.
        As the head of his own repertory company, the Shakespeare Festival Players, Mr. Moss toured some 50 colleges throughout the United States. He was also sent by the United States State Department as an American specialist in theater to Latin America, Africa and the Far East. Shakespeare in American Accent
        Commenting on his college tour in 1959, Mr. Moss said that most Americans found it easier ''to follow the language of Shakespeare in the familiar accents of our own American tongue than in the more formal inflections of companies from abroad.''
        One of Mr. Moss's outstanding performances was as Prospero in Margaret Webster's production of ''The Tempest'' in 1945. Lewis Nichols of The New York Times called the performance ''superb.'' Another memorable interpretation was that of the fatuous steward Malvolio in ''Twelfth Night,'' in 1949. ''The gem of the performance,'' wrote Brooks Atkinson of The Times.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Moss was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of City College of New York, majoring in Latin and Greek. He received a master's degree in Old French from Columbia University and in the early 1960's, obtained his Ph.D. in theater from New York University.
        His earliest training was a two-year apprenticeship as actor and director at Eva LeGallienne's Civic Repertory Theatre in New York. While a member of the staff of the speech and theater department of Brooklyn College, from 1933 to 1940, he was given his first major role in a Broadway production as the ruthless Spanish colonel in Ernest Hemingway's ''The Fifth Column.'' Often Played Movie Villains
        He also won critical acclaim for his portrayals in Maxwell Anderson's ''Journey to Jerusalem,'' Elmer Rice's ''Flight to the West'' and in a revival of Hecht's and MacArthur's ''The Front Page.''
        In films, Mr. Moss often played the villain. He starred or played supporting roles in such films as: ''Viva Zapata,'' ''Salome,'' ''Kim,'' ''Gambit,'' ''Casanova's Big Night'' and ''My Favorite Spy.''
        Spanning the golden age of Radio, Mr. Moss played the lead in numerous radio soap operas, was spokesman for the New York Philharmonic Orchestra and was a staff announcer for CBS Radio in New York.
        As a narrator, Mr. Moss performed with the Boston, Detroit and Milwaukee Symphony Orchestras and others. In the 1978-79 season, he appeared with the Chicago Lyric Opera Company in ''Paradise Lost,'' performing the only two speaking roles, John Milton and The Voice of God. This was followed by appearances at La Scala in Milan and a command performance for the Pope in Rome.
        His articles on theater have appeared in The New York Times and elsewhere. He also regularly contributed crossword puzzles to The New York Times Magazine.
        Mr. Moss received the James K. Hackett Medal from City College in 1968 ''for distinguished achievement in dramatic arts.''
        He is survived by his wife, Stella; a daughter, Andrea End of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and a son, Jeffrey, of Manhattan.
      