
       Allan P. Bradley, who served as a legislative liaison officer for two New York state education commissioners, died of a heart attack Friday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 77 years old and lived in Wilmington, N.C.
        Allan P. Bradley, who served as a legislative liaison officer for two New York state education commissioners, died of a heart attack Friday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 77 years old and lived in Wilmington, N.C.
        From 1960 to 1975, Dr. Bradley served as executive assistant and chief of staff to Commissioner James E. Allen and to Dr. Allen's successor, Ewald B. Nyquist.
        During the stormy school desegregation battles of that era, Dr. Bradley often stood in for the commissioners at heated public meetings and was forced several times to escape angry crowds through rear exits.
        In the late 1960's, a white crowd in Malverne, L.I., chased him off a stage and then rocked and stoned his car before he drove away. During a teachers' strike in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville District in 1969, a group of blacks locked Dr. Bradley in a school broom closet, where he remained for an hour until released by a custodian. A School Superintendent
        Dr. Bradley began his career as a teacher in Earlville, N.Y., served as supervising principal of the Earlville schools from 1939-42 and as supervising principal in Cobleskill, N.Y., from 1942-47. He became a professor of education at Buffalo State Teachers College in 1947 and served as District Superintendent of Schools in Westchester County from 1956 to 1960.
        Dr. Bradley was born in Violet, Ontario, and received a bachelor's degree, a master's degree and a Ph.D. from Syracuse University.
        He is survived by his wife JoAn A.; two daughters, Patricia Webster of Clifton Park, N.Y., Marcia Bradley-Parsons of Brewster, Mass., two sons, A. Paul Jr., of Rochester, and Charles C., of Delmar, N.Y., all children of his first marriage to the late Helen Jones; a brother, Dr. Wesley Bradley of Glenmont, N.Y., and three sisters, Doris Chamberlain of Hancock, N.Y., Lois Titus of Delmar, N.Y., and Jean Nickel of South Thomaston, Me.
      