
       Prime Minister Herbert A. Blaize of Grenada, a longtime political figure in that Caribbean island nation who regained power after United States armed forces invaded to oust a leftist Government there in 1983, died yesterday morning at his official residence. He was 71 years old.
        Prime Minister Herbert A. Blaize of Grenada, a longtime political figure in that Caribbean island nation who regained power after United States armed forces invaded to oust a leftist Government there in 1983, died yesterday morning at his official residence. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Blaize, who had suffered from cancer of the prostate for several years, died as he was preparing to leave for a hospital in St. George's, the nation's capital. In recent weeks Mr. Blaize was forced by deteriorating health to cancel most public appearances. On Dec. 5, he attempted to deliver a speech at a political luncheon but was unable to raise his voice and gave up after less than two minutes.
        A staunch admirer of Ronald Reagan, Mr. Blaize led a centrist coalition that won power in an election in 1984 and sought to bring stability and economic progress to Grenada after several years of turbulence that culminated in the killing of Prime Minister Maurice Bishop, a Marxist, in a military coup shortly before the American invasion.
        Mr. Blaize was appointed Grenada's Chief Minister in 1960 by British authorities when the country, which now has a population of 85,000, was moving toward independence. He was defeated in a 1961 election by a right-wing rival, Sir Eric Gairy, but returned to office 18 months later when Sir Eric was forced to resign. English Teacher in Aruba
        Turned out of office again in 1967, Mr. Blaize remained in the opposition through the granting of complete independence in 1974. He put together the winning coalition in 1984 after the United States, with the cooperation of other Caribbean governments, forcefully intervened.
        Born on Carriacou, a small island 30 miles northeast of St. George's, Mr. Blaize spent seven years as a clerk in the colonial civil service after graduating from secondary school. For several years, he worked for an American oil company on the island of Aruba as an English teacher but returned to Carriacou when he was disabled by a severe arthritic condition of the spine.
        For a time, Mr. Blaize operated a shop selling soft drinks and beer. In 1964, he took a correspondence course in law that qualified him, after 10 years of study, to practice as a solicitor in Commonwealth countries.
        Political foes routinely questioned his physical ability to carry on the duties of office. ''I'm not fooling myself that it's going to be easy,'' he said on the eve of the 1984 election that made him once again Prime Minister. ''It's definitely not going to be a tea party.''
        Survivors include his wife, the former Venetia Davidson; a sister, Muriel Noel of Carriacou; three daughters, Norma Blaize, who is Consul-General of Grenada in New York; Val Jerome of Grenada and Marion Fleary, and three sons, Mario, Marvin and Chris Blaize of Brooklyn.
      