
       Dr. Iago Galdston, a psychiatrist, an educator and the secretary of the Medical Information Bureau of the New York Academy of Medicine for 34 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 94 years old and lived in the Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn and in Newtown,
        Dr. Iago Galdston, a psychiatrist, an educator and the secretary of the Medical Information Bureau of the New York Academy of Medicine for 34 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 94 years old and lived in the Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn and in Newtown, Conn.
        Dr. Galdson, who was born in Kishinev, Russia, received his medical training at Fordham University and his psychiatric training at the Wagner Jauregg Institute in Vienna in the early 1920's. He was a staff physician at the Union Health Center and the education secretary of the New York Tuberculosis Association before joining the New York Medical Academy in 1928.
        For the next 34 years, he served as spokesman for the academy and sponsored activities to bring information on medical subjects to the public.
        He retired from the academy in 1962 and was director of resident training for Connecticut's Department of Mental Health. He also was president of the American Association of Directors of Psychiatric Residency Training.
        In 1973, at the age of 78, he began practicing psychiatry full time and until several weeks ago had offices in Brooklyn Heights and Newtown.
        He is survived by a son, Dr. Richard, of Newton, Mass.; three daughters, Margaret Frank of Newton, Eleanor Scrimgeour of Newtown and Elizabeth Storey of Bermuda; three brothers, Daniel Goldstein of Manhattan, Dr. Morton Galdston of Lake Success, L.I., and Dr. Harry Galton of Manhattan; six sisters, Anna Levitman of Manhattan, Mary Simmons of South Orange, N.J., Esther Schiller of Manhattan, Vivian Simms of Forest Hills, Queens, Naomi Rosenberg of Brighton, England, and Olive Hennefield of Lansdale, Pa., and 10 grandchildren.
      