
       William Gurdon Saltonstall, a former principal of Phillips Exeter Academy and a retired director of the Peace Corps in Nigeria, died Monday at a nursing home in Lakeville, Mass. The cause of death was not made known. He was 84 years old and lived in Marion, Mass.
        William Gurdon Saltonstall, a former principal of Phillips Exeter Academy and a retired director of the Peace Corps in Nigeria, died Monday at a nursing home in Lakeville, Mass. The cause of death was not made known. He was 84 years old and lived in Marion, Mass.
        Mr. Saltonstall spent most of his career at Exeter, where he taught history before becoming the school's principal from 1932 to 1963. He left in 1963 to take the Peace Corps post. He left the Peace Corps in 1965.
        Born in Milton, Mass., Mr. Saltonstall was himself educated at Exeter, one of the nation's oldest and best-known private preparatory schools. The Saltonstall family has been connected with the school since Leverett Saltonstall, class of 1796, attended as a classmate of Daniel Webster.
        Mr. Saltonstall graduated from Harvard College, where he was president of the student body and first marshal of the graduating class, the highest elected undergraduate office. He earned master's and law degrees from Harvard University. Author of Maritime History
        An avid sailor, he was the author of ''Ports of Piscataqua,'' a maritime history of Portsmouth, N.H., that was published in 1941 by Harvard University Press. His yawl, which he raced on Cape Cod, is named Arbella, after the ship that brought Sir Richard Saltonstall, a Lord Mayor of London, to America in 1630. Phillips Exeter announced before his death that a boathouse now under construction would be named in his honor.
        Mr. Saltonstall was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He had honorary doctorates from many colleges, including Williams, Tufts, Bowdoin, Dartmouth, Colby, Princeton and the University of New Hampshire.
        He was a former trustee of Colby College and Southeastern Massachusetts University, and a former member of the board of overseers of Harvard. He was a former member of the board of visitors at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. He was also a former trustee of the Educational Testing Service and a former president of the New England Assocation of Colleges and Secondary Schools.
        Surviving are his wife, Katharyn; three daughters, Josephine Hetzeck of Marion, Katharyn Hok of Concord, N.H., and Deborah Twining of South Hamilton, Mass.; two sons, William Jr. of Marion and Samuel of Canton, Conn.; a sister, Harriet Gratwick of Amherst, Mass.; two brothers, Robert of Wayland, Mass., and Dr. Henry of Stratham, N.H.; 16 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      