
       Robert J. Dixson, a retired president of Johnson & Johnson International and an official of many professional, civic and philanthropic groups in New Jersey and, after his retirement, in Florida, died Saturday at his home in Gulf Stream. He was 82 years old.
        Robert J. Dixson, a retired president of Johnson & Johnson International and an official of many professional, civic and philanthropic groups in New Jersey and, after his retirement, in Florida, died Saturday at his home in Gulf Stream. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Dixson, who, associates recalled, deftly balanced serious and humorous aspects of issues, was a lawyer by training and an international business specialist by talent. He played a major role in expanding the manufacturing, distribution and sales of products for Johnson & Johnson, the leading diversified health-care company, to countries around the world.
        He was an executive with the company for 31 years, earning increasingly high overseas posts and becoming assistant to the chairman and chief executive of the parent company. He retired in 1973. He had also been a board member for 21 years.
        Robert John Dixson was a native of Brooklyn, where he earned a law degree at St. John's University. He was admitted to the New York bar in 1930 and was a partner in a Brooklyn law firm and a member of St. John's law faculty from 1930 to 1942, when he joined Johnson & Johnson as assistant general counsel. He later served St. John's as a trustee and university council member, for which he received many awards. Active in Civic Affairs
        At his death, Mr. Dixson was a trustee of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in Princeton, N.J., the nation's largest health-care philanthropy. He held the position for decades. He had also been a director and chairman of the National Foreign Trade Council, a board member of the Far East-America Council of Commerce and Industry and an adviser to the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
        In Plainfield, N.J., where he lived before retiring to Florida in 1979, Mr. Dixson was for 26 years a governor of the Muhlenberg Hospital Foundation, for which he won the 1986 award for distinguished service. He had also been a trustee of the Point Pleasant (N.J.) Hospital.
        Mr. Dixson was active in Palm Beach County, Florida, until he became ill. His posts included commissioner of a regional hospital district, a town commissioner of Gulf Stream, a trustee of the Bethesda Memorial Hospital, board member of the First Bank and Trust Company and an adviser to the First National Bank of Palm Beach.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Margaret Ott; a son, Robert J., of Berwyn, Pa.; a sister, Catherine Lynch of Lakehurst, N.J.; a brother, John J., of Keene Valley, N.Y., and two grandsons.
        A funeral Mass will be said at 11 A.M. tomorrow at St. Vincent Ferrar Church in Del Ray Beach, Fla.
      