
       Nicolae Ceausescu, who was reported yesterday to have been executed with his wife, Elena, his Deputy Prime Minister, was a maverick and despotic Rumanian Communist leader who pursued an independent course abroad and demanded slavish subservience at home. He was 71 years old; his wife was 70.
        Nicolae Ceausescu, who was reported yesterday to have been executed with his wife, Elena, his Deputy Prime Minister, was a maverick and despotic Rumanian Communist leader who pursued an independent course abroad and demanded slavish subservience at home. He was 71 years old; his wife was 70.
        For one of Eastern Europe's most durable dictators, Mr. Ceausescu's downfall after 24 years of repression at home and bridge-building to the West came astoundingly fast, even when measured against the frantic pace of change in the Soviet bloc this year.
        Just a month ago, tens of thousands of workers marched under fluttering flags to hail President Ceausescu's re-election as the General Secretary of the Communist Party.
        But although the carefully orchestrated ceremony did not allow a murmur of dissent, long-simmering national rage over a Draconian economic policy, Ceausescu nepotism, a bizarre cult of personality and harebrained agricultural and architectural schemes, many experts say, reached a flash point last week in violent demonstrations in the western city of Timisoara. Last week, protests spread to Bucharest, forcing Mr. Ceausescu and his wife to flee the capital.
        The overthrow ended the rule of a strangely contradictory figure, one who showed one face to the outside world, another to his people.
        He welcomed two American Presidents, Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, to Bucharest and helped Mr. Nixon plan his opening to China in 1972. He was received, in turn, in Washington and feted by President Jimmy Carter. He was the only Eastern bloc leader to carry on simultaneous diplomatic relations with Israel, Albania and China. He freed Rumanian Jews to emigrate to Israel, although, it later came out, Israel paid millions of dollars in ransom fees.
        He also denounced the Soviet military sweep into Afghanistan in 1979, refused to take part in the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and other Warsaw Pact maneuvers and barred Soviet bases on Rumanian soil. Cultism, Inefficiency: Invoking Stalin But at home, the taciturn and humorless Mr. Ceausescu created what was often described as his own Stalinist regime, complete with huge, underused building projects and a personality cult that saw his face - and increasingly, his wife's, retouched to make her appear 40 years younger - plastered throughout the country.
        Bookstores had to showcase the 30 volumes of his speeches, news kiosks carried digest versions and music stores featured his speeches on record. Artists produced tributes to his greatness, and party stalwarts were expected to leap to their feet at rallies with such chants as ''Ceausescu -Rumania, our pride and esteem!'' Interviews with visiting reporters were choreographed to comic extremes, as if for an operetta.
        Elena Ceausescu, who held a doctorate in chemistry, was given high Government positions and became the second most powerful person in Rumania, widely rumored to be positioning herself as her husband's successor. She was on the Executive Political Committee of the Communist Party's Central Committee, as well as on the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Ceausescu's, the former Elena Petrescu, was born in 1919, according to her official biography. She joined the Communist Party in 1937 and was elevated to the Central Committee in 1972. She became First Deputy Prime Minister in 1980. She is also listed as the author of numerous scientific articles on polymers and other chemical compounds.
        About 40 other relatives of the Ceausescus were said to also have enjoyed positions of power, including their son, Nicu, the Communist Party Secretary in the city of Sibiu in Transylvania; another son, Valentin, a nuclear researcher, and a daughter, Zoia Elena, the director of the Institute of Mathematics in Bucharest.
        In addition, Mr. Ceausescu's brothers held top positions in the Government. Ilie was an army general and Deputy Defense Minister, Nicolae Andruta was a police general and Deputy Interior Minister, Ion was in charge of state economic planning, Marin was a diplomat, and Florea was an editor for the party newspaper, Scinteia.
        A brother-in-law, Vasile Barbulescu, was a party secretary in charge of agriculture, and Mrs. Ceausescu's brother, Gheorghe Petrescu, was in charge of trade unions.
        Mr. Ceausescu's economic program was ruinous, many of the experts said. Gripped by an obsession to pay off a national debt of $21 billion, he began in 1982 diverting vast economic resources, with a devastating effect. Bucharest was in permanent brownout from electricity shortages, meat nearly disappeared from food shops, gasoline was rationed to a tankful a month, and even the propaganda that passed for television broadcasting was reduced to two hours a night.
        Yet a director at the Food Ministry in 1987 denied the shortages, calling the long lines ''only an appearance'' because, he insisted, the statistical data showed annual production increases.
        In several speeches last year, Mr. Ceausescu provoked alarm by threatening to bulldoze rural settlements of less than 2,000 people, about 7,500 of the country's 13,000 villages, for so-called ''agro-industrial complexes.'' The plan was stayed in the face of an international uproar, but at least 10 churches, three synagogues and many other buildings in Bucharest were blown up on Mr. Ceausescu's orders to make room for Communist Party and Government offices.
        Mr. Ceausescu, a protege of Rumania's first Communist Chief of State, Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, succeeded him as the party leader upon his death in 1965.
        Keeping the Kremlin At Arm's Length When he first came to power, at 47 years old, Mr. Ceausescu stepped up his predecessor's efforts to keep Moscow at arm's length. He encouraged trade with nations outside the Communist bloc, earned a most-favored-nation trading status with the United States, and built huge factories, dams and apartment complexes.
        In foreign affairs, Mr. Ceausescu refused to follow the Eastern bloc line and was the only Communist leader not to break off diplomatic relations with Israel after the 1967 Mideast War.
        He seemed cut from the same cloth as such independent Communist nationalists as Tito in Yugoslavia, Wladyslaw Gomulka of Poland and Imre Nagy of Hungary.
        In the early years of his rule, Mr. Ceausescu seemed not to have inherited Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej's love of luxury, nor did he seem to share his predecessor's penchant for publicity. Unlike his counterparts in other Communist countries, he did not have large photographs of himself on the streets of Bucharest.
        But over the years, things changed. As Mr. Ceausescu's Government became more entrenched, it brutally curtailed the rights of a fearful and dispirited citizenry. In its 1986 report on Rumania, the Helsinki Watch, an organization that monitors human rights, spoke of ''totalitarian control as repressive as any in Eastern Europe.''
        Nicolae Ceausescu was born on Jan. 26, 1918, in the rural village of Scornicesti, not far from Bucharest, into a peasant family. The third of 10 children, he had to go to work in menial jobs in Bucharest factories at 11, and had only an elementary school education. When he was 14, he joined Rumania's burgeoning workers' movement and in 1933, became an active member of the Union of Communist Youth.
        In 1936, already recognized as a vigorous leader and organizer, the youth became a full member of the outlawed Communist Party, and while working in the Communist underground, was arrested by King Carol's police and sentenced to 30 months in prison on charges of ''agitation.'' The experience was to prove physically harrowing and politically fortuitous.
        Mr. Ceausescu served time in the notoriously brutal Doftana Prison in Brasov, where he was beaten so severely that for the rest of his life he had a slight stutter. A fellow inmate years later recalled him as ''a skinny kid who rarely said a word - he didn't whine when they kicked him, he didn't smile when they fed him.''
        It was at Doftana, now a national Communist shrine, that the Fascist regime sent its most militant political prisoners, and in 1937 Mr. Ceausescu began sharing an 8-by-6-foot cell with Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, a legendary revolutionary who was to become postwar Rumania's first supreme Communist leader. The older man admired the younger's fiery revolutionary zeal and Mr. Ceausescu became his protege and was inducted into the inner elite of the Rumanian Communist Party.
        Late in 1939 and in 1940, Mr. Ceausescu, out of prison, served his party as an activist and organizer of Rumanian youth groups. Rearrested in 1940, he rejoined Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej at the Doftana prison, and, under his wing, began a serious study of Marxist-Leninist doctrine.
        In August 1944, Rumania, which was fighting on the side of the Axis powers then in World War II, was invaded by the Soviet Army, and Mr. Ceausescu, Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej, and several other leading Communists escaped from Doftana.
        They did so with the aid of Ion Gheorghe Maurer, a bourgeois lawyer who, although not a party member, had been friendly with the Communists and would later serve as Prime Minister of Rumania in Mr. Ceausescu's Government. Mr. Maurer, disguised as a Nazi officer and flashing phony papers, convinced Doftana's warden, fearful of an imminent takeover of the prison by the Russians, that the Communists should be released into his custody.
        By the end of 1944, the Communists, under the eye of the Russian Army, had taken over Rumania, and Mr. Ceausescu's swift climb to power had begun. In 1945, he became a candidate member of the party's Central Committee and was assigned to the political directorate of the Rumanian Army, as brigadier general. The following year, he became a member of the Grand National Assembly, the Deputy Minister of the Armed Forces, and an Army major general.
        The Kremlin's dominance of Rumania in the years immediately after World War II was assured by Ana Pauker and several other Rumanian Communists, who had sat out World War II in Moscow while the ''nationalists'' in the party, led by Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej, were in prisons in Rumania. Miss Pauker purged as many nationalists as she could, but in 1952 she and her followers were outmaneuvered and purged by Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej, who became the party's General Secretary and the nation's supreme ruler. Old Ties Begin To Pay Off As he solidified his power, cautiously distancing his country from the Kremlin, Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej rewarded his old prison comrades. Mr. Ceausescu, by 1955, was a full member of the Politburo. Two years later, he took charge of party organization and cadres, which made him second to Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej in influence and power. Before he died of cancer in 1965, Mr. Gheorghiu-Dej had picked Mr. Ceausescu as his successor.
        Holding the titles of President of Rumania and the Secretary General of the Communist Party, Mr. Ceausescu's power became absolute. From the beginning, he began offending the Soviet Union by refusing to follow Moscow's lead in primary elements of foreign, military, and economic policy.
        For example, while nominally a Warsaw Pact member, Rumania, after developing its oil and petrochemical industries, began selling gasoline products to the American and NATO armed forces in West Germany. The allies of the North American Treaty Organization were also important customers of Rumania's meat-packing industry.
        Consequently, the West rewarded Rumania's unorthodoxy with closer ties, including relaxed trade and Western investment in Rumania. Mr. Ceausescu traveled widely in the West, and in 1969 President Nixon made an official visit to the Communist nation, a visit that was soon reciprocated.
        Over the years, Mr. Ceausescu fostered a cult of personality. He became all-knowing and omnipresent, with busts and photographs of him dotting the landscape. The first of state television's two hours of programming nightly were devoted to praising his accomplishments. Each bookstore featured his massive opus, ''Rumania on Its Way of Building Up the Multilaterally Developed Socialist Society,'' a collection of speeches, reports, statements and articles. Rigidity Grows As Isolation Prevails Rumania's estrangement from the West began in 1983, with Mr. Ceausescu's decision to liquidate his country's $21 billion foreign debt, created by his grand building projects of the 1970's, by imposing domestic austerity. Within five years, he had cut the debt in half, but Rumania's standard of living had plunged to the lowest in Europe. Food was severely rationed, cities were dark at night, buildings were barely heated in the winter.
        If Mr. Ceausescu seemed to be purposely isolating his country from his friends in the West, he also further widened the gulf between Rumania and other Communist bloc countries when he rejected the policies of the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, urging greater openness and economic reform in the Soviet Union. Instead, he reiterated his belief in central economic planning and opposition to free-market principles.
        But although Mr. Ceausescu seemed to maintain an iron grip, hints that his control was slipping began to appear in recent years.
        In November 1987, thousands of workers at a truck and tractor factory in Brasov stormed the Communist Party headquarters, burning personnel records and a portrait of Mr. Ceausescu, and looting a shop that sold goods to favored officials.
        Last year, strains between Hungary and Rumania also grew amid accounts that the Ceausescu Government was dealing harshly with a Hungarian ethnic minority in Rumania.
        Rumania grew increasingly isolated and critics spoke of the country's ''Albanization'' - a reference to Albania, now the sole vestige of Stalinism in Europe.
        ''It's all going backward by leaps and bounds,'' a Western official said last year. ''It will soon be an underdeveloped country with a pastoral economy. If you like the 19th century, this will be the place.''
        UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: OBITUARY
      