
       Joel R. Jacobson, New Jersey's first energy commissioner and an outspoken public official, died early today at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston. He had been admitted Friday with severe chest pains. He was 71 years old and lived in South Orange.
        Joel R. Jacobson, New Jersey's first energy commissioner and an outspoken public official, died early today at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston. He had been admitted Friday with severe chest pains. He was 71 years old and lived in South Orange.
        Mr. Jacobson worked for many years as a union leader before being appointed by former Governor Brendan T. Byrne to a variety of state positions. Mr. Byrne said today that Mr. Jacobson ''had integrity - not only honesty but a deep commitment to do what he felt was right - regardless of the consequences.''
        While he was a member of the state's Casino Control Commission in 1984, Mr. Jacobson called Frank Sinatra ''an obnoxious bully'' after the singer and Dean Martin had pressured a blackjack dealer into dealing from her hand instead of the plastic box required by state law. Mr. Sinatra refused to perform in New Jersey for several years after the incident.
        Mr. Jacobson also described casinos as ''Taj Mahals in the middle of a war zone,'' and helped create a plan under which the casinos would pay for the construction of new housing in Atlantic City. Critical of Oil Companies
        After graduating from New York University in 1941, Mr. Jacobson worked for The Paterson Sunday Eagle before becoming a labor organizer. In 1968 he was named president of the Industrial Union Council and community-relations director for Region 9 of the United Auto Workers.
        In 1976 Mr. Byrne named Mr. Jacobson president of the board of Public Utility Commissioners, and a year later Mr. Jacobson became the state's first energy commissioner. His harsh criticism of oil companies, including his insistence that they explain why home-heating oil prices were rising so rapidly, prompted some of them to take out newspaper advertisements attacking him.
        In 1986, after leaving the casino commission, he was appointed trustee of Union City Local 560 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters by a Federal court, which had ruled that the local was dominated by organized crime. He dismissed some no-show workers before being replaced as trustee in May 1987 by a former state prosecutor. He bridled at being replaced, saying he had wanted to create a well-run union local while the Federal judge had wanted to break the union.
        Mr. Jacobson is survived by his wife, Lucie; a daughter, Monica Jacobson Bressler of New York; a son, Howard, of Princeton and two grandchildren.
      