
       James Bond, a leading ornithologist whose name was adopted by Ian Fleming for the fictional British agent 007, died at Chestnut Hill Hospital Tuesday. He was 89 years old and lived in Philadelphia, Mr. Bond, a native of Philadelphia and graduate of Cambridge University, was a former curator of ornithology at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia.
        James Bond, a leading ornithologist whose name was adopted by Ian Fleming for the fictional British agent 007, died at Chestnut Hill Hospital Tuesday. He was 89 years old and lived in Philadelphia, Mr. Bond, a native of Philadelphia and graduate of Cambridge University, was a former curator of ornithology at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia. He was the leading authority on birds of the West Indies for more than half a century and is best known among scientists for proving that birds of the Caribbean originated in North America, not South America.
        Mr. Bond's contribution to popular culture came after World War II when Ian Fleming saw his book, ''Birds of the West Indies,'' in Jamaica. Mr. Fleming, an avid bird watcher, was writing a thriller at the time and adopted the ornithologist's name for the dashing character later portrayed in films by Sean Connery, Roger Moore and other actors.
        Mr. Fleming wrote years later to Mr. Bond's wife, Mary Fanning Wickham Bond: ''It struck me that this brief, unromantic, Anglo-Saxon and yet very masculine name was just what I needed, and so a second James Bond was born.'' First Expedition in 1925
        ''In return,'' he wrote, ''I can only offer you or James Bond unlimited use of the name Ian Fleming for any purposes you may think fit. Perhaps one day your husband will discover a particularly horrible species of bird which he would like to christen in an insulting fashion by calling it Ian Fleming.'' Mr. Fleming died in 1964. Mr. Bond made his first scientific expedition in 1925 when he traveled up the Amazon River. He visited more than 100 Caribbean islands, collected 294 of the 300 bird species living there and wrote more than 100 books and scientific papers on Caribbean birds.
        Among his honors were the Musgrave Medal from the Institute of Jamaica in 1952; the Brewster Medal, the highest honor of the American Ornithologists' Union, in 1954; and the Leidy Medal of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 1975.
        Mr. Bond is survived by his wife; a stepdaughter, Mary Eiseman, and six stepgrandchildren.
      