
       Comdr. Eric S. Purdon, retired, who commanded one of the ships that helped integrate blacks into the Navy's regular ranks, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in the Annapolis suburb of Harwood, Md. He was 76 years old.
        Comdr. Eric S. Purdon, retired, who commanded one of the ships that helped integrate blacks into the Navy's regular ranks, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in the Annapolis suburb of Harwood, Md. He was 76 years old.
        The commander' wife, Mary, recalled yesterday by telephone that before the experiments in desegregation in World War II, blacks were usually restricted to being mess attendants.
        She also recalled that many crew members of her husband's submarine chaser, the PC 1264, kept in touch with him and submitted recollections for his 1972 book, ''Black Company.'' One such crewman was Samuel Lee Gravely Jr., who eventually became the first American black admiral.
        The auxiliary vessel had a mainly black complement, and all of her officers were white, including eight chief petty officers as instructors. As black crewmen qualified for promotions, they replaced the white petty officers. A Report on the Pacific War
        In 1947 Commander Purdon, with Capt. Walter Karig, completed the third volume of a ''Battle Report'' series recounting the experiences of Navy personnel in the Pacific in World War II. Hanson W. Baldwin, military editor of The New York Times, wrote that the series told ''a coherent and readable story with a simplicity which belies their editorial skill.''
        Eric Sinclaire Purdon was born in the Philippines, attended schools in England and Ireland and received a bachelor's degree at Trinity College in Hartford.
        After World War II, he was a Government intelligence analyst until 1948, when he was recalled to active duty in the Navy. His posts included chief of information for the United States European command and the joint military command on Taiwan.
        After retiring from the Navy in 1963, he was a spokesman for the Commerce Department and the Office for Economic Opportunity and a special aide to the director of the Job Corps.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Henry, of San Diego, and Eric, of Harwood; a daughter, Pamela, also of Harwood; a sister, Polly Gutheim of Dickerson, Md., and a grandson.
      