
       Gerald H. Carson, a social historian of the American scene, died of a heart attack early Monday at St. Mary Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 90 years old and lived in nearby Newtown.
        Gerald H. Carson, a social historian of the American scene, died of a heart attack early Monday at St. Mary Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 90 years old and lived in nearby Newtown.
        Mr. Carson's nine social histories were hailed by reviewers as entertaining and carefully researched works that made history palatable by using irony and wit while eschewing invective.
        He had been a successful advertising copywriter and executive for 29 years when he abandoned Madison Avenue for writing in 1951, at the age of 52. Advertising, he wrote later, ''had taken on for me a surrealistic quality.''
        In The New York Times, Charles Poore praised Mr. Carson's first book, ''The Old Country Store'' (1954) as a cheerful saga of rustic wit and ingenuity, while Samuel T. Williamson termed it ''a wealth of intriguing description and anecdote which subverts an all-too-common supercilious notion that a 'popular' book can't be 'scholarly.' '' Breakfast-Food History
        In ''Cornflake Crusade'' (1957), Mr. Carson savored the breakfast- food innovations wrought by Sylvester Graham (crackers and bread), Charles W. Post (Grape Nuts) and Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, the inventor of wheat flakes, corn flakes and more than 100 other nut and cereal products.
        Other Carson books included ''The Roguish World of Doctor Brinkley'' (1960), ''One for a Man, Two for a Horse: A Pictorial History, Grave and Comic, of Patent Medicines'' (1961), ''The Social History of Bourbon'' (1963), ''The Polite Americans'' (1966) and ''Men, Beasts and Gods'' (1972).
        Gerald Hewes Carson was a native of Carrollton, Ill. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Illinois, entered advertising in 1923, and later was a vice president at William Esty & Company, at Benton and Bowles and at Kenyon & Eckhardt. He then began writing full time and served on the advisory board of American Heritage magazine from 1964 to 1976.
        Surviving are his wife of 66 years, the former Lettie Gay; a daughter, Sara Ann Forden of Potomac, Md., and three grandchildren.
      