
       Angelo Ruggiero, a longtime friend and close associate of John Gotti, died of cancer Monday at his home in Howard Beach, Queens. Mr. Ruggiero, who was 49 years old, had four major cases against him pending in Federal and New York State courts and was free on $1 million bail when he died.
        Angelo Ruggiero, a longtime friend and close associate of John Gotti, died of cancer Monday at his home in Howard Beach, Queens. Mr. Ruggiero, who was 49 years old, had four major cases against him pending in Federal and New York State courts and was free on $1 million bail when he died.
        Law-enforcement authorities have said that Mr. Ruggiero, a stocky man with a gravelly voice, was a captain in the Gambino crime family, which is said to be the nation's largest and most powerful crime organization. Mr. Gotti has been described by the Federal authorities as the head of the Gambino family. Mr. Ruggiero was the nephew of Aniello Dellacroce, who was the underboss, or No. 2 figure, in the Gambino family until he died of cancer.
        At a Federal court bail hearing in 1986, an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation testified that shortly after Mr. Dellacroce's death, Mr. Ruggiero and Mr. Gotti engineered the Dec. 16, 1985, murders of Paul Castellano, then the boss of the Gambino family, and his aide, Thomas Bilotti, to open the way for Mr. Gotti's rise. Neither Mr. Gotti nor Mr. Ruggerio, however, has been charged with the crime.
        Jeffrey C. Hoffman, Mr. Ruggiero's lawyer, who confirmed Mr. Ruggiero's death, described him yesterday as a ''client who was always very respectful in our relationship'' and as a ''very caring family man.'' Charges Include Racketeering
        In 1974 Mr. Ruggiero and Mr. Gotti pleaded guilty to attempted manslaughter for the fatal shooting of a man in a Staten Island bar. Investigators have said the killing was carried out as a favor to Carlo Gambino, the founder of the crime family. Mr. Ruggiero and Mr. Gotti served about two years in state prison for the crime.
        Last January Mr. Ruggerio along with Mr. Gotti and another person were charged by a Manhattan grand jury with assault and conspiracy for the 1986 shooting of a carpenters union official. The authorities said the shooting was in retaliation for the wrecking of a Manhattan restaurant that was managed by an associate in the Gambino crime family.
        Mr. Ruggiero also figured in a Federal racketeering and drug-trafficking case that originated in 1982 and involved Gene Gotti, a younger brother of John, and John Carneglia, who is said to be a Gambino member. According to the charges, Mr. Ruggiero, with the help of his co-defendants, took over and ran his brother Salvatore's multimillion-dollar drug operation after Salvatore and his wife, Stephanie, died in a plane crash in 1982.
        Two lengthy trials in Federal court in Brooklyn ended in mistrials last year. A third trial ended earlier this year with the conviction of Gene Gotti and Mr. Carneglia. Much of the evidence at the trial came from tape recordings made from an electronic eavesdropping device placed by investigators in Mr. Ruggiero's Cedarhurst, L.I., home, in 1981 and 1982. Mr. Ruggiero, however, was not tried at that time because he was ill.
        He also faced Federal racketeering charges in Brooklyn and Manhattan.
        Mr. Ruggiero is survived by his wife, Marie, and four children.
      