
       Alvin Ailey, who rose from a childhood of extreme poverty in the segregated world of small-town Texas to become a leading figure in the establishment of modern dance as a popular art form in America, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. He was 58 years old.  Dr. Albert Knapp, Mr.
        Alvin Ailey, who rose from a childhood of extreme poverty in the segregated world of small-town Texas to become a leading figure in the establishment of modern dance as a popular art form in America, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. He was 58 years old.  Dr. Albert Knapp, Mr. Ailey's physician, attributed his death to terminal blood dyscrasia, a rare disorder that affects the bone marrow and red blood cells.
        As a choreographer, dancer and director, Mr. Ailey also played an important role in establishing black modern dance. He became a noted Broadway dancer and, starting in the late 1950's, a choreographer of work that explored a wide range of the black experience.  A Humanist Vision
        The troupe he founded in 1958, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, became the most popular dance company on the international touring circuit. At home and abroad, the company was known for its vibrant artistry and repertory, and for Mr. Ailey's motivating humanist vision. The company opens a three-week season on Wednesday at City Center.
        Mr. Ailey saw his troupe as fulfilling the need for a repertory company that would perform modern-dance classics along with his own works. To that end he presented signature pieces, otherwise infrequently performed, by such pioneers as Katherine Dunham, Pearl Primus and Ted Shawn. The company served as a repository for contemporary modern dance by black choreographers like Talley Beatty, Donald McKayle and George Faison. And Mr. Ailey invited younger modernists, including Bill T. Jones and Arnie Zane, Elisa Monte and Ulysses Dove, to create dances for the company.
        Mr. Ailey's own dances, however, form the core of the company's repertory. They range from work drawn from his memories of the black churches and honky-tonk bars he knew as a child to searing social protest dances like his 1969 ''Masekela Langage'' (a piece about being black in South Africa), to spirited, stylish celebrations of the music of Duke Ellington (''Night Creature,'' 1974).
        An imposing, shy bear of a man, Mr. Ailey was capable of extreme reserve as well as sudden bursts of exuberance and deep affection for longtime colleagues. He spoke often of his belief in the universality of art, sometimes using his ''Revelations'' as an example. That 1960 work, which became his most popular piece and a classic of American modern dance, celebrated black spirituals, gospel music and small-town religion. ''Its roots are in American Negro culture, which is part of the whole country's heritage,'' Mr. Ailey once said. ''But the dance speaks to everyone. . . . Otherwise it wouldn't work.''
        Mr. Ailey, who stopped dancing in 1965, drew upon classical ballet, jazz dance, Afro-Caribbean dance and the modern-dance idioms of Lester Horton and Martha Graham for his pieces. In an interview in 1971, he said: ''We talk too much of black art when we should be talking about art, just art. Black composers must be free to write rondos and fugues, not only protest songs. I use Ellington and I want to use more of his music, but it's music.''
        In the modern-dance world, once known for cultish audiences, he was sometimes criticized for the overt theatricality of the company's performances and repertory. ''The black pieces we do that come from blues, spirituals and gospels are part of what I am,'' he said in a 1973 interview with Ellen Cohn in The New York Times Magazine. ''They are as honest and truthful as we can make them. I'm interested in putting something on stage that will have a very wide appeal without being condescending; that will reach an audience and make it part of the dance; that will get everybody in the theater. What do people mean when they say we're 'Broadway'? If it's art and entertainment - thank God, that's what I want to be.''
        The company was composed exclusively of black dancers until 1963, and Mr. Ailey was criticized in an era of black militancy for his subsequent decision to integrate his troupe. ''I feel an obligation to use black dancers because there must be more opportunities for them, but not because I'm a black choreographer talking to black people,'' he said in the 1973 interview. But he added: ''I met some incredible dancers of other colors who could cut the work. Also, we were running into reverse racism. On our Asian tour in 1962, people kept saying about my pieces and Talley Beatty's piece - 'Oh, they're wonderful, but only black people can do jazz.' ''
        ''I don't think black dancers should be limited that way,'' he continued. ''There's a well-known choreographer who says black people in 'Swan Lake' are historically inaccurate. Well, then white people and Orientals in 'Revelations' are historically inaccurate - but it works anyway. It's like saying only French people should do Racine or Moliere. Black people are not historically inaccurate, but we have been historically ignored.''
        Mr. Ailey, the choreographer Eugene Loring once said, ''fused black and white dance into a brilliant chiaroscuro.'' A Lonely Childhood
        Alvin Ailey was born on Jan. 5, 1931, in Rogers, Tex., a small town 50 miles south of Waco. His mother, Lula, was 17 when he was born; she was abandoned by her husband six months later. There was a deep attachment between Mr. Ailey and his mother, who earned their livelihood by picking cotton and doing laundry and domestic work. Later she worked in an aircraft factory in Los Angeles.
        As a lonely child in Navasota, Tex., where the two moved when Mr. Ailey was 6, he spent much time drawing insects, writing enigmatic poetry and playing the tuba. Religious services and social activities at the True Vine Baptist Church and the goings-on at the Dew Drop Inn, a dance hall and bar, made a deep impression on the child and served later as inspiration for several of Mr. Ailey's dances, including the 1958 ''Blues Suite,'' his first choreographic success.
        Mr. Ailey came into contact with dance gradually in Los Angeles, where he and his mother moved when he was 12. An athletic student with a gift for foreign languages, Mr. Ailey did backyard imitations of Gene Kelly, but did not see a live dance performance until a junior high school class trip to a performance by the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Though disappointed that ''Scheherazade'' seemed so tame, he began to haunt the city's theater section. ''I first saw the Dunham company there,'' he recalled years later. ''I went over one day and there were pictures of black dancers.''
        Fascinated by Miss Dunham's ''Tropical Revue,'' he was persuaded by a school friend to take dance classes with a member of the Dunham company. He was put off, however, by the tawdry atmosphere of the nightclub in which the class took place. Then he encountered the work of Lester Horton, an influential modern dance teacher and choreographer who was based in Los Angeles. Horton was known for taking inspiration from American Indian dance and Japanese theater, for his philosophy of total theater and for his racially integrated dance company, said to be the first in the nation. 'I Nearly Fainted'
        Mr. Ailey said of his introduction to Horton's style: ''One day a friend showed me some movements from a class he was taking, and I nearly fainted. I said, 'Oh, my God, what is that?' And he said, 'That's modern dancing.' ''
        Mr. Ailey began to study with Horton in 1949 and made his debut as a dancer with the company the following year. He left several times to study languages at the University of California at Los Angeles and other area colleges, but returned to the company in 1953 and found himself taking over as director when Horton died that year.
        Mr. Ailey created his first three dances for the company. But in 1954 he and Carmen de Lavallade, also a Horton dancer, were invited to perform on Broadway as featured dancers in Truman Capote's ''House of Flowers.'' The musical ran for only four months, but Mr. Ailey settled in New York to study modern dance with Martha Graham, Hanya Holm and Charles Weidman, ballet with Karel Shook and acting with Stella Adler and Milton Katselas.
        He went on to appear in the 1954 film ''Carmen Jones,'' acted in the 1955 Off Broadway production ''The Carefree Tree,'' and returned to Broadway in 1957 in the musical ''Jamaica.'' He directed the revue ''African Holiday'' in 1960 and co-directed ''Jerico-Jim Crow,'' a song-play by Langston Hughes, Off Broadway in 1964. There were other acting roles, in ''Call Me by My Rightful Name'' in 1961 and on Broadway in ''Tiger, Tiger, Burning Bright'' in 1962. His choreography over the next few years included dance for Samuel Barber's opera ''Antony and Cleopatra,'' which was the first Metropolitan Opera production at Lincoln Center, and for Leonard Bernstein's ''Mass,'' for the opening of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington. The Start of a Company
        But it was an earlier concert, in March 1958 at the 92d Street Y in New York, that crystallized his future. In a performance shared with Ernest Parham, Mr. Ailey and six other dancers presented three works, including ''Blues Suite.'' Three months later, John Martin, dance critic of The Times, singled out Mr. Ailey as one of the six outstanding artists that season. ''As a performer he has a rich, animal quality of movement and an innate sense of theatrical projection, which have been known before; but as a choreographer he had not previously shown his work here. It was an impressive debut.''
        Mr. Martin described ''Blues Suite'' as ''inherently substantial stuff.'' He wrote: ''It is overflowing with variety; it is beautifully staged, with excellent decor and costumes by Geoffrey Holder, and on this occasion was superbly danced. An admirable piece of work all around.''
        The concert was the start of Mr. Ailey's company. Four years later the State Department sent the Ailey dancers to Australia and Southeast Asia on the first of many immensely successful foreign tours. Domestic successes were few, however, until a 1969 engagement on Broadway at the Billy Rose Theater.
        Later that year, the Ailey troupe became a resident company at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, a relationship that lasted three seasons. Bookings were still slow, though the company was to tour the Soviet Union the following year at the invitation of the State Department, the first American modern-dance troupe to do so since Isadora Duncan's group in the 1920's. Suddenly, Mr. Ailey announced the dissolution of the troupe, and the State Department stepped in to save the company with an additional tour of North Africa. Joined the City Center
        A successful two-week season at the ANTA Theater in New York early in 1971 helped to establish the troupe as a major company. That year, Mr. Ailey founded the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center, the company's bustling official school and the home of the Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble, a junior troupe. In 1972, the company joined the City Center of Music and Drama. The school and companies have just moved into new headquarters near Lincoln Center.
        Today, the 28-member company has an annual season at City Center and a 35-week national and international touring season. It has performed in 45 countries on 6 continents. Mr. Ailey's choreography, including commissioned premieres, has also been performed by the American Ballet Theater, the Joffrey Ballet, the Paris Opera Ballet, the London Festival Ballet, the Royal Danish Ballet and companies in Italy, Venezuela and Israel.
        In 1988, Mr. Ailey was awarded the Kennedy Center Honors from President Reagan, and received New York City's Handel Medallion for achievement in the arts.His dance honors included the 1987 Samuel H. Scripps American Dance Festival Award, the 1979 Capezio Award and the 1975 Dance Magazine Award. He received honorary doctorates from Princeton University, Bard College and Adelphi University, and in 1976 he was awarded the Spingarn Medal of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        Success was not achieved easily. Mr. Ailey suffered a breakdown in 1980, and was hospitalized after a number of public outbursts. Judith Jamison, the Ailey star for whom the choreographer created ''Cry,'' another signature piece, in 1971, once said: ''Alvin needs to really believe that he has done great things, that he - more than anyone else - has done great things for black dance in America.''
        Mr. Ailey is survived by his mother, Lula Cooper; his stepfather, Frederick W. Cooper, and his half-brother, Calvin Walls, all of Los Angeles.
      