
       Hans Hartung, a pioneer of European abstract painting, a prominent figure in the Parisian art world from 1945 onward and the winner in 1960 of the Grand Prize at the Venice Biennale, died on Thursday at his home in Antibes, France. He was 85.
        Hans Hartung, a pioneer of European abstract painting, a prominent figure in the Parisian art world from 1945 onward and the winner in 1960 of the Grand Prize at the Venice Biennale, died on Thursday at his home in Antibes, France. He was 85.
        Born in Leipzig on Sept. 21, 1904, the son and grandson of physicians, Hartung was one of the few painters of his day who thought almost from the outset in purely abstract terms. Initially self-taught as an artist, and reportedly unaware of the existence of earlier abstract painters, he studied philosophy and art history at Leipzig University and later attended art schools in Leipzig, Dresden, and Munich.
        The basic elements of his pictorial language were apparently formed by the time he was 18. In 1928 he attended a lecture by the Russian pioneer abstractionist Wassily Kandinsky, however, and in 1929 he became acquainted with modern French painting at a major international exhibition in Dresden. Determined to go his own undogmatic way, he lived first by the Mediterranean, and later, during the winter, in Paris. A Gestural Abstractionist
        An adherent throughout his life of a subjective, spontaneous, gestural form of abstraction, he worked mainly in Paris during the 1930's. After a brush with the Nazi regime in Berlin in 1935, he returned to Paris and volunteered at the outbreak of World War II for the French Foreign Legion.
        He lost his right leg in action near Belfort in 1944. Granted French nationality in 1946, he became a leading member of the abstract wing of the School of Paris after 1945.
        It was as a Frenchman, and in the French pavilion, that he triumphed in Venice in 1960.
        Because it was his ambition, as he put it, to ''act on the canvas,'' he came to be regarded in Europe as the counterpart of the American abstract expressionists.
        Attempts to advance that view in New York were largely rejected by American critics, first in 1971, when Hartung showed his work at the Lefebre Gallery, and even more trenchantly in 1975, when a major exhibition of his recent paintings was held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        But in Europe, his reputation remained firm, and in October one of his paintings sold for $583,000 at auction in Versailles.
        His funeral will be private.
      