
       Dr. Edward J. Bloustein, the president of Rutgers University since 1971, died Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, in Nassau, the Bahamas, where he was attending a business meeting. Dr. Bloustein lived in the president's house on the school's New Brunswick-Piscataway campus. He was 64 years old.
        Dr. Edward J. Bloustein, the president of Rutgers University since 1971, died Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, in Nassau, the Bahamas, where he was attending a business meeting. Dr. Bloustein lived in the president's house on the school's New Brunswick-Piscataway campus. He was 64 years old.
        Regarded as a fierce proponent of academic freedom, Dr. Bloustein oversaw the expansion of Rutgers into several areas of academic research while also building up the school's football program. A lawyer, philosopher and educator, he was known on campus as an open administrator who sought out a range of opinions.
        Before coming to Rutgers Dr. Bloustein was a professor of law at New York University from 1961 to 1965 and president of Bennington College in Vermont from 1965 to 1971, where he oversaw the college's transformation from a women's college to a co-educational one. Bennington's enrollment nearly doubled, from 350 to 600 students, during his tenure. He also taught constitutional law there. In 1984, he served as chairman of the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges.
        Gov. Thomas H. Kean said Saturday night: ''Ed Bloustein was an individual committed to excellence and to the cause of academic freedom. He touched the lives of thousands of young persons and they have all gained from that experience.''
        Dr. Bloustein was an authority on the right to privacy, and in recent years had devoted much time to studying the First Amendment, family members said. Research Centers Added
        In the last decade, Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, has added several research centers. Assisted by a $90 million state bond issue, the school has added centers for advanced food technology and fiber-optic materials research. A center for advanced biotechnology and medicine is near completion.
        While some faculty members and legislators questioned Dr. Bloustein's efforts to bring Rutgers into big-time collegiate sports, he saw it as a way of securing a significant public profile for the university. He often said that Rutgers did not have to choose between academic quality and a winning athletic program, and in 1984 the school received $3 million from the Legislature to refurbish the football stadium with lights and an artificial surface.
        Dr. Bloustein was born on Jan. 20, 1925, in the Bronx, the youngest of seven children of Polish immigrants. His father ran a wholesale egg business on the Lower East Side. He graduated from James Monroe High School in the Bronx and enrolled in New York Unversity on a scholarship.
        He studied on a Fulbright Scholarship at Oxford University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1950. He also received doctoral degrees in law and philosophy from Cornell University.
        A spokeswoman for the university said the school's executive vice president, Dr. T. Alexander Pond, will serve as acting president.
        Dr. Bloustein's wife of 37 years, Dr. Ruth Ellen Steinman Bloustein, a pediatrician, died last year. One of his brothers, Dr. Francis J. Bloustein, was a New York State Supreme Court justice. He died in 1984.
        Dr. Bloustein is survived by two daughters, Elise, of Manhattan, and Lori, of Brooklyn; three sisters, Rachel Michael of New York City, Gertrude Sherman of New Jersey and Sally Goldberg of Florida, and a brother, Oscar, of Westchester County.
      