
       Loel Guinness, an heir of the banking branch of the Guinness family who was a Member of Parliament for 14 years and a socialite on two continents, died Saturday of heart disease at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 82 years old.
        Loel Guinness, an heir of the banking branch of the Guinness family who was a Member of Parliament for 14 years and a socialite on two continents, died Saturday of heart disease at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Guinness, who was a Royal Air Force wing commander in World War II, lived in Vaud, Switzerland, and in Acapulco, Mexico. It was in Acapulco that he suffered a heart attack late last week before being taken to Methodist, where his physician, Dr. Michael DeBakey, is chief of cardiology.
        Named Thomas Loel Evelyn Bulkeley Guinness when he was born in 1906, he was the son of Benjamin S. Guinness, who had banking and other business interests in Ireland, England and the United States. In his early 20's, after service in the Irish Guards, the son spent six months driving a trolley car in Pittsburgh, where his father was living at the time.
        Returning to London in 1927, Mr. Guinness entered the first of three celebrated marriages. His wedding to Joan Yarde-Buller, the daughter of a baron, was attended by five members of the royal family. The marriage ended eight years later with a sensational divorce trial in which Mr. Guinness named Prince Aly Khan, the son and heir of the Aga Khan, as corespondent and won custody of the couple's son. Mrs. Guinness later married Prince Aly Khan; he in turn later married the actress Rita Hayworth. Elected to Parliament
        In 1929, after taking flying lessons, Mr. Guinness became one of the first private citizens in England to own an airplane and soon he was a member of the County of London's Auxiliary Air Force. He later served as president of Air Work Ltd., an aircraft-parts supplier, and of British United Airways.
        In 1931, on his third try, Mr. Guinness was elected to Parliament from Bath and was named parliamentary private secretary to Sir Philip Sassoon, the Under Secretary for Air. He held his seat until 1945, when the Conservatives were turned out of office by the Labor Party.
        His second marriage, in 1936, to Lady Isabel Manners, daughter of a duke, was followed by a four-month wedding trip on their yacht Atlantis to Palm Beach and New York, during which they entertained the world's wealthy and titled.
        When World War II broke out Mr. Guinness went on active duty with the Royal Air Force. In 1944 he became commander of a wing of the Second Tactical Air Force and by the war's end he had been mentioned in dispatches - a British military honor -five times. The Netherlands made him a commander of the Order of Orange Nassau and France made him an officer of the Legion of Honor and awarded him a Croix de Guerre. Advice From His Father
        In 1951 he was divorced from Lady Isabel and married Gloria Rubio, a Mexican who had been the wife of Prince Ahmed Fakry of Egypt. They lived on the estate in Acapulco where Mr. Guinness was stricken last week. She died in 1980. In his father's will, which left him a substantial fortune in the late 1940's, Mr. Guinness was advised to establish a residence in Switzerland and travel to ''Panama, Australia and even Timbuktu'' in order to ''safeguard his freedom of movement at all times.''
        He is survived by a son and a daughter from his second marriage, Billy Guinness, and Lindy, the Marchioness of Dufferin and Ava, both of London, six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      