
       Guy Laroche, the French couture designer, died of intestinal cancer early yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 67 years old.
        Guy Laroche, the French couture designer, died of intestinal cancer early yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 67 years old.
        He had been a member of the Chambre Syndicale de la Mode Parisienne since he founded his fashion house in 1957. The organization of French fashion designers now has 22 members.
        His last collection was presented Jan. 25 during the week of spring-summer showings at the Grand Hotel, and Mr. Laroche appeared at the end with his models to take his bow. The next day he was voted the Golden Thimble Award by a jury of fashion editors for having the most beautiful collection in Paris.
        Jacques Mouclier, executive president of the Chambre Syndicale, praised the designer. ''He was simple, unaffected - he never acted like a star,'' Mr. Mouclier said.  A Young, Sexy Look Never a fashion pace-setter, Mr. Laroche was known for his color sense and the young, sexy look of his clothes. He developed a following among young Parisiennes when he began his business for his sparkling sequined evening dresses and, later, for his sharply tailored suits.
        He also quickly became a favorite of the American designers and retailers in the late 1950's and 1960's who went to Paris to buy couture styles to be adapted or copied. Rarely going to extremes, he made soft, pretty clothes that private customers continue to fancy.
        Bermuda shorts or culottes were among his most revolutionary ideas. Bernadette Chirac, the wife of Jacques Chirac, the Mayor of Paris and former Prime Minister of France, has been seen in his clothes. Nicole Alphand, whose husband Herve was the French Ambassador to Washington, often wore Laroche styles to diplomatic parties.
        ''People talked about his elaborately draped chiffon dresses,'' recalled Bill Blass, one of the American designers who went to Paris regularly. ''I always thought of him in relation to Jean Desses, who was known for his chiffons.''
        Mr. Laroche had indeed begun his fashion career in 1949 as an assistant to Mr. Desses, with whom he worked for seven years. After that he came to New York to design for different manufacturers, studying Seventh Avenue production techniques.  250 Boutiques Around World
        This knowledge proved useful when he opened his ready-to-wear division in 1961. He was able to offer clothes at prices somewhat less than those of other leading French designers. Today he has 250 boutiques around the world including shops in New York, Dallas and Houston. Guy Douvier took over the designing of the ready to wear in the early 1970's, under the direction of Mr. Laroche.
        Depending on what was in fashion at the moment, Mr. Laroche's clothes carried echoes of the 1920's, 1930's and 1940's, but this was always done in moderation; they never had the look of costumes. He said he was inspired by Christian Dior, Cristobal Balenciaga, Jacques Fath and Pierre Balmain, ''classicists with dash,'' he added.
        He was also known for his successful perfumes, introducing the still-popular scent called Fidji in 1967, Drakkar Noir for men in 1982 and Clandestine in 1986.
        A men's wear collection was introduced in 1967.  Total Sales of $250 Million
        The Laroche operation had worldwide sales in 1987 of $250 million.
        Mr. Laroche was born in La Rochelle, France, in 1921. Contemplating a career in medicine, be became fascinated by clothes when a friend took him to a fashion show when he was 19. He soon began to sketch designs.  Two years after opening his own house, Macy's gave him an award for outstanding creativity. He received his first Golden Thimble award from the Chambre Syndicale in 1985 for his fall and winter couture collection. In 1987, he became a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, receiving his award from Jacques Chirac, then Prime Minister of France, who cited his ''taste and elegance.''
        A funeral service will be held Monday at the Church of the Madeleine in Paris at 10:30 A.M. The house of Laroche will continue, according to Mr. Douvier, though the chief executive has not been designated. There are no survivors.
      