
       Harold Christensen, a dancer, a teacher and for 33 years the director of the San Francisco Ballet school, died of prostate cancer on Monday at his home in San Anselmo, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Harold Christensen, a dancer, a teacher and for 33 years the director of the San Francisco Ballet school, died of prostate cancer on Monday at his home in San Anselmo, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Christensen and his brothers, Lew and Willam, played an important role in establishing ballet on the West Coast. Willam Christensen was a founder of the San Francisco Ballet, one of the oldest American ballet troupes, and Lew Christensen, who helped the company, was a noted dancer and choreographer.
        It was under Harold Christensen's direction that the San Francisco Ballet school attained national stature, winning a 10-year grant from the Ford Foundation in 1963 to help ''strengthen professional ballet in America.'' A Native of Utah
        Mr. Christensen was born in Brigham City, Utah. He, like his brothers, received his first ballet training from his uncle, Peter, in Salt Lake City. He continued training in New York with Stefano Mascagno and later with George Balanchine at the School of American Ballet.
        In 1932, he joined his brothers' vaudeville dance act with Ruby Asquith, whom he married. The couple performed on Broadway in 1934 in ''The Great Waltz,'' and Mr. Christensen also danced with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, Ballet Caravan, the San Francisco Opera Ballet and the San Francisco Ballet, retiring from the stage in 1946.
        A leading ballet teacher, Mr. Christensen was considered to have a special gift for training male dancers. In 1973, he and his brothers received the Dance Magazine Award, followed by the Capezio Award in 1984, which honored them as ''these Western pioneers who grew out of American vernacular dance'' and who ''have made ballet prosper wherever they settled.'' Mr. Christensen retired in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife and their daughters Stephanie Freudenthal of Boston and Heidi, of San Anselmo; a son, Harold Jr., also of San Anselmo, and his brother William, of Salt Lake City.
      