
       Allen Eaton Throop, a lawyer and former general counsel to several Federal agencies, died of cardiac arrest Sunday at Goodwin House West, a retirement community in Falls Church, Va., after a long illness. He was 89 years old and lived in Falls Church.
        Allen Eaton Throop, a lawyer and former general counsel to several Federal agencies, died of cardiac arrest Sunday at Goodwin House West, a retirement community in Falls Church, Va., after a long illness. He was 89 years old and lived in Falls Church.
        Mr. Throop, a graduate of Harvard Law School, was admitted to the New York bar in 1928 and joined the firm of Cotton & Franklin, which later became Cotton, Franklin, Wright & Gordon. In 1934, he was counsel to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation formed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He joined the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1934, and in 1936 he became general counsel.
        Mr. Throop was an associate law professor at Yale from 1938 to 1940 and was general counsel and later a trustee of the Associated Gas & Electric Corporation until 1955.
        He was a member of the Manhattan law firm of Shearman & Sterling from 1945 to 1963, when he was named vice president and general counsel to the Communications Satellite Corporation, or Comsat, a privately owned company chartered by Congress to deal with satellite transmissions of microwave signals.
        He was instrumental in developing the financing for Comsat, a $200 million stock offering. In 1967, he returned to private law practice with a longtime friend, Thomas Corcoran, in the Washington firm of Corcoran, Youngman & Rowe. He retired in 1982. Active in Fund-Raising Efforts
        A resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., for 19 years, he was a member of the Friends of the Scarsdale Library. He was also active in fund-raising efforts for Hamilton College, where he did his undergraduate work.
        Mr. Throop was an adviser to the Federal Securities Code Project of the American Law Institute from 1969 to 1980 and was on the advisory board of the Securities Regulation and Law Report from 1969 to 1983. He also contributed articles to many law journals.
        He is survived by his wife, E. Wilhelmina; two sons, Thomas A., of Bethesda, Md., and Adrian W., of San Francisco, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 7, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary on Feb. 23 about Allen Eaton Throop, a lawyer and former general counsel to Federal agencies including the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, misstated the corporation's origin. It was established by President Herbert Hoover, not Franklin D. Roosevelt.
      