
       Aubrey Menen, a novelist, critic and essayist, died of throat cancer on Feb. 13 in Trivandrum in Kerala, India. He was 76 years old.  Word of Mr. Menen's death was received yesterday by Dr. Howard Gottlieb, curator of his papers in the manuscript collections at the Boston University library.
        Aubrey Menen, a novelist, critic and essayist, died of throat cancer on Feb. 13 in Trivandrum in Kerala, India. He was 76 years old.  Word of Mr. Menen's death was received yesterday by Dr. Howard Gottlieb, curator of his papers in the manuscript collections at the Boston University library.
        Many of Mr. Menen's novels were published in the United States, including ''The Prevalence of Witches'' (1948), ''The Stumbling Stone'' (1949), ''The Backward Bride'' (1950), ''The Fig Tree'' (1959), ''Shela'' (1962) and ''A Conspiracy of Women'' (1965). Nonfiction Books and Articles
        His nonfiction works included ''Upon This Rock,'' a book about the Vatican, and ''Rome for Ourselves,'' which was based on his observations as a resident of Italy. He also wrote articles for The New Yorker, Harper's Bazaar, Holiday and The New York Times Magazine as well as essays and criticism for The New York Times Book Review.
        Commenting on Mr. Menen's 1953 autobiography, ''Dead Man in the Silver Market,'' in The Times Book Review, Santha Rama Rau wrote: ''Even in his novels, Aubrey Menen is at his best writing essays. In 'Dead Man in the Silver Market,' Mr. Menen has written his first book entirely of essays, and the result is everything that his admirers might have expected. The essays are connected by the general theme of nationalism - a subject about which Mr. Menen is singularly well equipped to write because, with an Indian father and Irish mother and an English upbringing, he has been exposed to three of the most virulent types in the world.''
        Mr. Menen was born in London on April 22, 1912, and was educated at University College in London. He was drama critic of The Bookman in 1934, director of the Experimental Theater from 1935 to 1936 and director of the Personalities Press Service from 1937 to 1939. In World War II he was script editor for Indian Government films. After the war, he worked in an advertising agency's film department, and after 1948 he became a freelance writer.
        Asked to give advice to writers, Mr. Menen, who was admired as a satirist, told the publication Contemporary Authors that ''the aspiring writer should perform a daily physical exercise.''
        ''He should sit on his bottom in front of a table equipped with writing materials,'' he said. ''If his top end fails him, at least his nether end won't.''
      