
       Norris Cotton, who represented his native New Hampshire for 20 years in the United States Senate as one of its staunchest Republicans, died yesterday at his home in Lebanon, N.H. He was 88 years old.
        Norris Cotton, who represented his native New Hampshire for 20 years in the United States Senate as one of its staunchest Republicans, died yesterday at his home in Lebanon, N.H. He was 88 years old.
        A spokeswoman for the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Hanover, Jane Bassick, told The Associated Press that Mr. Cotton had died of pneumonia. Questions about his health arose both before and after his retirement from the Senate in January 1975.
        Mr. Cotton held important committee assignments as a top-ranking Republican. But there were persistent, if unspecific reports, over much of his tenure that his health had caused him to resist Republican Party pressures to assume the type of leadership roles played by predecessors from the Granite State like George H. Moses and Styles Bridges.
        Mr. Cotton described himself as a ''rock-ribbed conservative Republican.''
        In 1976, after his retirement, he pledged his support to President Ford in the state primary. Ronald Reagan was seeking to deny the nomination to Mr. Ford then, and when the Californian came to Lebanon, Mr. Cotton, a somber and austere figure, welcomed him with warm praise. Alternate Case His Ballot
        Ideologically, Mr. Cotton said, he considered himself closer to Mr. Reagan, but he remained pledged to Mr. Ford for what he said was the good of the party in New Hampshire. Mr. Cotton passed up the nominating convention in Kansas City as too fatiguing and let an alternate cast his vote instead.
        Mr. Cotton's reputation for political astuteness was equal to that of his illustrious predecessors. No other Republican could match his record of victory in New Hampshire.
        Born on a farm in Warren, N.H., on May 11, 1900, Norris Cotton started out as a shy, almost inarticulate country boy. But he attended Phillips Exeter Academy and graduated from Wesleyan University, working his way through them because of his family's financial circumstances.
        As a lay preacher in his Wesleyan days, he honed his oratorical skills. He also became a good story teller and mimic who later would convulse the voters back home with imitations of senators he had watched in the Senate.
        He taught high school and won election to the New Hampshire House of Representatives in 1923. He was secretary to the Republican state committee for four years and then served as secretary to Senator Moses from 1924 to 1928.
        While in Washington, Mr. Cotton earned a law degree at George Washington University Law School and, back in New Hampshire, practiced law while working as clerk of the State Senate. He spent several more years as a lawyer, prosecutor, judge and state legislator, including a stint as New Hampshire House majority leader, before being elected to the House of Representatives in 1946.
        He was sworn in the following January, along with another freshman Representative, Richard M. Nixon of California, who became a lifelong friend.
        Re-elected three times, Mr. Cotton gained in political stature as he served on the Appropriations and Agriculture Committees. In 1954 he won the party primary and general election for the remaining two years of the Senate term of Charles W. Tobey, who had died.
        Senator Cotton was re-elected for full terms in 1956, 1962 and 1968, serving on the Senate Appropriations and Commerce Committees. After his retirement, he returned for a brief spell as interim Senator in August 1974 until the New Hampshire voters settled a disputed election.
        Senator Cotton's wife of 51 years, the former Ruth Isaacs, died in 1978; there were no children. In 1980, he married the former Eleanor Coolidge Brown, who survives him.
      