
       Paul Michael Bator, a lawyer, educator and an expert on the Federal courts and constitutional law, died yesterday at his home in Chicago after a long illness. He was 59 years old.
        Paul Michael Bator, a lawyer, educator and an expert on the Federal courts and constitutional law, died yesterday at his home in Chicago after a long illness. He was 59 years old.
        In 1959 he joined the faculty at Harvard University as an assistant law professor and in 1962 became a full professor there. From 1971 to 1975 he was associate dean of the Harvard Law School, and in this period testified before a House committee, backing the constitutionality of a special prosecutor appointed by Congress to deal with the Watergate affair.
        In 1982 Mr. Bator took a leave of absence from Harvard to become Deputy Solicitor General. In 18 months in Washington he argued and won eight cases before the Supreme Court on behalf of the Government. He was nominated for Federal judgeship by President Reagan in 1984 but withdrew his name because of poor health.
        He returned to Harvard but in January 1986, because of unhappiness with what he felt was an increasing factionalization at the law school and what he saw as its dominance by left-leaning faculty members, he left to join the faculty at the University of Chicago Law School. A Native of Budapest
        He was the John P. Wilson Professor of law there and was associated with the firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt. His most recent victory at the Supreme Court came on Jan. 18 when the Court upheld the constitutionality of the Federal Sentencing Commission and the sentencing system it created. He had represented the commission before the Court.
        Born in Budapest in 1929, Mr. Bator came to the United States with his family when he was 10 years old. He attended the Groton School and was valedictorian of his graduating class at Princeton University in 1951.
        He earned a master's degree in history from Harvard University in 1953 and was editor of the Harvard Law Review before graduating from the law school in 1956. He was a law clerk to United States Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan, before becoming associated with the Manhattan law firm of Debevoise, Plimpton & McLean.
        Mr. Bator was a co-author of the second and third editions of Hart and Wechsler's ''Federal Courts and the Federal System.''
        He is survived by his wife, Alice Garrett Hoag Bator; two sons, Thomas, of Boston, and Michael, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; a daughter, Julia, a junior at Yale; a brother, Francis, of Boston, and one grandchild.
      