
       Joe Silver, an actor who appeared on and Off Broadway, in films and in more than 1,000 television programs, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Silver, who had been suffering from liver cancer, was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Joe Silver, an actor who appeared on and Off Broadway, in films and in more than 1,000 television programs, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Silver, who had been suffering from liver cancer, was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Silver's trademark was his rough, deep voice, which he also used on hundreds of commercial voice-overs and radio advertisements. A radio announcer once described it as ''the lowest voice in show business; so low that when he speaks, he unties your shoelaces.''
        The actor's last Broadway appearance, in a theatrical career that spanned 46 years, was as the gangster Arnold Rothstein in the musical ''Legs Diamond'' this season at the Mark Hellinger Theater. He starred as a septuagenarian real estate tycoon in Joe Cacaci's ''Old Business'' last season at the Public Theater. Broadway Debut in 1942
        Mr. Silver was born in Green Bay, Wis., and made his Broadway debut in 1942 as Jeeter Lester's son-in-law in ''Tobacco Road.'' In 1972, he was nominated for a Tony Award as best supporting actor for his performance in ''Lenny,'' in which he played nine roles. His other Broadway shows included ''Gypsy,'' ''The Zulu and the Zayda,'' ''The World of Sholom Aleichem'' and ''You Know I Can't Hear You When the Water's Running.'' His Off Broadway plays included ''The Homecoming'' and ''Cold Storage.''
        He played Lee Grant's husband on the television series ''Fay.'' For three years in the 1950's, he was a featured comedian on the Red Buttons television program, and he created the character Captain Jet on the children's program ''Space Funnies.''
        His movies included ''The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz,'' ''Switching Channels,'' ''The Gig,'' ''Almost You'' and ''Rhinoceros.''
        Mr. Silver is survived by his wife, the actress Chevi Colton; a son, Christopher, of Manhattan; a daughter, Jennifer Sylla, also of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      