
       Sir William Stephenson, the Canadian-born millionaire industrialist whose adventures as Britain's World War II chief of intelligence in the Western Hemisphere were chronicled in the 1979 bestseller ''A Man Called Intrepid'' died Tuesday in Paget, Bermuda. He was 93 years old.  Sir William, who had been living in retirement in Bermuda and Jamaica for many years, was given the code name Intrepid by Winston Churchill because long before his cloak-and-dagger days began he had been one of Britain's top fighter pilots in World War
        Sir William Stephenson, the Canadian-born millionaire industrialist whose adventures as Britain's World War II chief of intelligence in the Western Hemisphere were chronicled in the 1979 bestseller ''A Man Called Intrepid'' died Tuesday in Paget, Bermuda. He was 93 years old.  Sir William, who had been living in retirement in Bermuda and Jamaica for many years, was given the code name Intrepid by Winston Churchill because long before his cloak-and-dagger days began he had been one of Britain's top fighter pilots in World War I, an inventor and a financier.
        Operating out of a suite in Rockefeller Center in New York, Sir William sometimes served as a go-between for Churchill and Roosevelt and was sent potential American intelligence agents for training at secret bases in Canada. Helped Organize O.S.S.  He also helped in the organization of the United States' wartime intelligence operation, the Office of Strategic Services, whose head, Maj. Gen. William J. (Wild Bill) Donovan, later said: 'Bill Stephenson taught us all we ever knew about foreign intelligence.''
        William Samuel Stephenson was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on Jan. 11, 1896.
        In 1914 he dropped out of college to join the Royal Canadian Engineers and suffered gas poisoning in France. He later said he faked his medical history to join the Royal Flying Corps and flew into action after only five hours of flight instruction. He was credited with shooting down 26 enemy planes and won Britain's Distinguished Flying Cross and the French Croix de Guerre.
        Eventually the young pilot was himself shot down and imprisoned. Before he escaped from prison camp, William Stephenson came across an ingenious can-opener that had been patented only in Germany. After the war he adapted it, obtained patents worldwide and made it the cornerstone of a future fortune. Millionaire and a Boxer
        Before he was 30 years old he had become a millionaire, with a finger in the manufacture of radios, phonographs, automobiles and airplanes. He was also in the construction, real estate, and steel businesses, and had invented the first device for sending photographs by radio. He also won the European lightweight boxing championship.
        When Hitler was preparing for World War II, William Stephenson, under cover of his own business operations in Germany, gathered intelligence on Nazi steel, arms, and munitions production and passed the information on to an unofficial intelligence network that reported to Churchill, then out of office but soon to become First Sea Lord and then Prime Minister.
        ''That was my only training in espionage,'' Sir William later recalled, but in 1940 Churchill sent Intrepid to New York with the title of British Passports Control Officer. After the United States got into the war he became British Security Coordinator for the Western Hemisphere.
        Reminiscing about his wartime service, Sir William said that in addition to serving as a link between Churchill and Roosevelt and supervising the training of Americans for intelligence work, he operated a spy network that uncovered the activities of Axis agents in South America and provided valuable information to Washington and London on the movements of Vichy French operatives. Knighted in 1946
        Afterward he liked to pass off his job as ''80 percent paperwork,'' but in 1946 the British honored him with a knighthood and the Americans presented him the Medal for Merit, then the United States' highest civilian award. The medal's citation, signed by Truman, said Sir William ''gave timely and invaluable aid to the American war effort.''
        After the appearance of ''A Man Called Intrepid,'' written by the similarly named William Stevenson, some of Sir William's recollections were contested by Churchill's private secretary, John Colville.
        Mr. Colville, in his 1981 book ''Winston Churchill and His Inner Circle,'' said that foremost among Sir William's false assertions were that he was a constant liaison between Churchill and Roosevelt and that he was in constant contact with Churchill on intelligence and military matters.
        Sir William replied: ''Those charges are completely untrue, absolute nonsense.''
        After the war Sir William joined with several wartime associates, including General Donovan and former Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius, to form the World Commerce Corporation, which provided tools, machinery and technical information to developing countries to set up industries.
        Sir William, who was buried yesterday in Bermuda, is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth, and a grandson, Rhys. A spokesman for the family declined to give their surname.
      