
       Lee Stevens, the president and chief executive officer of the William Morris Agency, died of lymphoma on Thursday at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 58 years old.
        Lee Stevens, the president and chief executive officer of the William Morris Agency, died of lymphoma on Thursday at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 58 years old.
        Mr. Stevens was elected head of the Beverly Hills-based agency in February 1984. He was only the sixth president of the agency, which represents performers, artists, writers and others, and has grown since its founding in 1898 to become the world's largest talent-management company. In a 1984 interview, he said of the concern: ''We're the hallmark of the industry, the standard by which agencies should operate.''
        Mr. Stevens was born in New York in 1930. He was hired by William Morris in 1953 after graduating from New York University and serving in the Army. He worked in the mailroom of the agency's New York office while attending the N.Y.U. Law School. He was admitted to the New York bar in 1957. Some Famous Clients
        Mr. Stevens was a protege of Nat Lefkowitz, another former president of William Morris, and was involved in all aspects of the agency, from motion pictures and book publishing to such business matters as negotiating contracts, accounting and administration. He represented such clients as Barbara Walters, Carol Channing, Peter Jennings, Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Angela Lansbury, Geraldo Rivera, the Broadway producer James Nederlander and the composer Jerry Herman. Mr. Matthau said Mr. Stevens displayed ''class under fire.''
        Mr. Stevens helped establish the concern's Nashville office in 1973 and rose to become executive vice president and chief operating officer of its New York office in 1980. As president, he tried to increase the agency's role in new entertainment media like cable television. In 1987, he moved from New York to Beverly Hills.
        Mr. Stevens is survived by his wife, Lizabeth, of Beverly Hills; a son, Todd, and two daughters, Claudia and Jennifer, all of the Los Angeles area.
      