
       Oliver W. Sipple, a former marine who thwarted an assassination attempt on President Gerald R. Ford, was found dead Thursday in his apartment in San Francisco. He was 47 years old.
        Oliver W. Sipple, a former marine who thwarted an assassination attempt on President Gerald R. Ford, was found dead Thursday in his apartment in San Francisco. He was 47 years old.
        A spokesman for the coroner's office in San Francisco said yesterday that Mr. Sipple had been dead several days when his body was found by a friend. The spokesman said that an autopsy had not yet been performed but that Mr. Sipple had apparently died of ''natural causes.''
        In an account yesterday about his death, The San Francisco Examiner said he had received treatment in recent years for schizophrenia, alcoholism and several other health problems.
        Mr. Sipple was thrust into the national spotlight when, on Sept. 22, 1975, he knocked a .38-caliber pistol out of the hands of Sara Jane Moore as she aimed at President Ford outside the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco.
        The bullet fired by Ms. Moore, who was among a crowd of more than 3,000 people, ricocheted and struck a taxi driver, inflicting only a slight wound. She was convicted of attempted assassination and sentenced to life in prison. Now 57, she is confined to a maximum-security Federal penitentiary in the San Francisco area. Bittersweet Outcome
        The ensuing publicity was bittersweet for Mr. Sipple. While he was praised as a hero and received numerous commendations, he contended that he also suffered from subsequent news accounts that identified him as a homosexual who frequented bars catering to the San Francisco gay community. The attention paid to his sexual orientation alienated him from members of his family, whom he had never told, Mr. Sipple would later say.
        Eight days after the assassination attempt, Mr. Sipple sued seven newspapers and 50 executives of newspapers, magazines and news agencies, saying the disclosure had caused him ''great mental anguish, embarrassment and humilation.''
        ''My sexuality,'' he said at a news conference where he announced the suit, ''is a part of my private life and has no bearing on my response to the act of a person seeking to take the life of another.''
        The suit was dismissed in 1984 by the California Supreme Court, which upheld a lower court's finding that Mr. Sipple's sexual orientation had been known to ''hundreds of people'' before the news accounts. But Mr. Sipple's protest spurred a debate among news organizations obout the individual's right to privacy versus freedom of the press.
      