
       Jethro Burns, the mandolin-playing partner in the Homer and Jethro country music team, whose cornball humor and musical talents won the duo a Grammy Award, has died at 69 years old.
        Jethro Burns, the mandolin-playing partner in the Homer and Jethro country music team, whose cornball humor and musical talents won the duo a Grammy Award, has died at 69 years old.
        Mr. Burns died at his Evanston home Saturday night after a long bout with cancer, said his son, John C. Burns.
        Mr. Burns and his partner, the late guitarist Homer Haynes, gained fame as a hillbilly duo that made fun of popular songs and put on a hayseed music act that also turned out complicated acoustical numbers. 'Proficient at Jazz and Swing'
        ''They became pretty popular because they had this crossover thing, this oddball, cornball kind of thing,'' Mr. Burns's son said. ''But they wore these $300 silk suits. They were extremely proficient at jazz and swing.''
        The duo won a Grammy award for the best comedy performance of 1959 with ''The Battle of Kookamonga,'' a parody of the ''The Battle of New Orleans.''
        Homer and Jethro perhaps became best known in their television commercials for Kellogg's cornflakes and on the show ''The Beverly Hillbillies.'' Mr. Burns was a regular on the television show ''Hee-Haw,'' and he also played on the radio show ''A Prairie Home Companion,'' his son said.
        The duo's most popular album was ''Homer and Jethro at the Country Club,'' a live comedy-music album from the early 1960's. But the work that enjoyed the most recent popularity was an instrumental jazz album from the same era called ''Playing It Straight,'' John Burns said.
        Homer and Jethro played on many radio series, including the long-running Saturday radio show that brought them to Chicago 35 years ago.
        ''I'm not exactly sure what I do,'' Mr. Burns was quoted as saying.''However, lots of folks have said I'm really good at it.'' Boyhood Friends
        Homer, whose real name was Henry D. Haynes, and Jethro, whose real name was Kenneth C. Burns, were boyhood friends in Knoxville, Tenn., where they began playing music together.
        Their act took off professionally after World War II, when they became part of the ''Midwestern Hayride'' on a radio station in Cincinnati, where they worked with Chet Atkins, Rosemary Clooney and Merle Travis.
        Homer and Jethro were inseparable partners until Mr. Haynes died of a heart attack on the way to a performance in 1971. ''After Homer died, he really couldn't keep that fire going,'' Mr. Burns said of his father. ''He tried several other guys, but it just wasn't Homer.''
        Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Lois, his daughter, Terry, and two grandchildren.
      