
       Joseph G. Raposo, a creator of the children's television show ''Sesame Street'' and a composer, died of complications from lymphoma yesterday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 51 years old and lived in Bronxville and Chatham, Mass.
        Joseph G. Raposo, a creator of the children's television show ''Sesame Street'' and a composer, died of complications from lymphoma yesterday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 51 years old and lived in Bronxville and Chatham, Mass.
        Mr. Raposo was a co-author of the hit play ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown'' and of the public-television show ''Electric Company.'' In addition to creating ''Sesame Street'' with Jim Henson and Jon Stone, he was the show's longtime musical director.
        He won five Grammy awards and had a talent for writing and orchestrating songs to delight and teach. His compositions include ''Sing,'' ''Bein' Green,'' ''You Will Be My Music,'' ''There Used to Be a Ball Park,'' ''Winners'' and ''Somebody Come and Play.'' He also wrote songs for the plays ''Sing Muse,'' ''A Man's a Man'' and ''Raggedy Ann.'' Heart With the Children
        ''Ever since growing up in Massachusetts,'' he said, ''my feet have been in the classics, my head in the theater and television, my heart with the lovers and children, and my home in Boston.''
        Mr. Raposo was born in Fall River, Mass., to the former Mary Victorine and Joseph S. Raposo, a pianist, violinist and flutist. He graduated from Harvard College and L'Ecole Normale de Musique in Paris, where he studied with Nadia Boulanger.
        He arranged concerts for Fred Astaire, wrote songs for Frank Sinatra and collaborated with Richard Rodgers. With Sheldon Harnick, he completed an adaptation of Frank Capra's film ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' 'Write Out of Experience'
        He also conducted seminars in musical composition at Harvard and Yale University and admonished his students to ''master the technical aspects of music'' and read poetry. Beyond this, he instructed them to ''write out of experience, to write simply about that which touches the heart.''
        Of a song he was composing, ''The End of the Beginning,'' he said: ''I want to describe the promise of every morning and the curiosity and hope in every child's face. I would like to think that this theme of hope and wonder is at the root of all my work.''
        Surviving are his wife, Pat Collins, arts-and-entertainment editor of the television station WOR; three sons, Joseph, of Bronxville, a partner in his father's company, Music Publishing International; Nicolas, of Cambridge, Mass., and Andrew, of Bronxville; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Bronxville, and his parents, of Chatham.
      