
       Ron Field, a Tony and Emmy Award-winning choreographer of Broadway musicals, died yesterday morning at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was brain lesions and neurological impairments, said Mr. Field's lawyer, Michael Miller.
        Ron Field, a Tony and Emmy Award-winning choreographer of Broadway musicals, died yesterday morning at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was brain lesions and neurological impairments, said Mr. Field's lawyer, Michael Miller.
        Mr. Field received the first of three Tony Awards for his dances and cabaret numbers in ''Cabaret'' in 1987. He received two additional Tony Awards for the direction and choreography of ''Applause,'' which was also voted best musical of 1970. His choreography for ''Zorba'' in 1968 and ''Rags'' in 1986 resulted in additional Tony Award nominations. Staged Award Shows
        Mr. Field was also noted for his staging of club acts, television specials and television award shows. He won Emmy Awards for his choreography for ''Ben Vereen . . . His Roots'' and for ''The Entertainer: America Salutes Richard Rodgers.'' ''Baryshnikov on Broadway,'' a 1980 special choreographed by Mr. Field, won a record nine Emmy Awards, though none for him.
        Mr. Field, who was born in New York City, trained at an aunt's dance studio on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and at the High School of Performing Arts in Manhattan, where he was the first male dance student to enroll. He made his Broadway debut in 1942, at age 8, in ''Lady in the Dark.'' Danced in Broadway Musicals
        Mr. Field danced in many Broadway musicals early in his career, among them ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes'' and ''Kismet.'' Mr. Field was inspired to try his hand at choreography after appearing with Jack Cole, a major influence on his career. He was recommended for the job of director and choreographer for ''Applause'' by Lawrence Kasha, the show's producer, after choreographing Mr. Kasha's Off Broadway revival of ''Anything Goes.''
        On Broadway, Mr. Field was also the director and choreographer of ''King of Hearts'' in 1978 and revivals of ''On the Town,'' starring Bernadette Peters, in 1971, and ''Peter Pan,'' starring Sandy Duncan, in 1979.
        Mr. Field also created the choreography for the New York City Opera's 1976 production of Joseph Tal's ''Ashmedai,'' staged by Harold Prince, and was responsible for the choreography of ''New York, New York,'' the Martin Scorsese film starring Robert De Niro and Liza Minnelli. In 1984, he conceived and staged the opening ceremonies of the 23d Olympiad at the Los Angeles Coliseum.
        He is survived by his mother, Meta Adorf, of Chula Vista, Calif., and his father, Harry Field, of New York City.
      