
       William Como, the editor in chief of Dance Magazine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        William Como, the editor in chief of Dance Magazine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lung cancer, said Norma McLain Stoop, the senior editor of the magazine.
        A native of Williamstown, Pa., he served in the Army during World War II. After the war, he worked as a secretary to the novelist Sinclair Lewis, attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York, studied modern dance with Sara Mildred Strauss, and acted with Clare Tree Major's children's theater company.
        He joined the staff of Dance Magazine in 1954 as a receptionist, and later worked in the circulation and advertising departments. He also wrote for Ballroom Dance Magazine, a companion publication, which he transformed in 1968 by turning the professional journal for ballroom dancers and dance teachers into a glossy entertainment magazine renamed After Dark. He became editor in chief of Dance Magazine in 1969. Encouraged Gifted Performers
        A convivial man who was a generous host and a gifted raconteur, Mr. Como never lost his delight in the theater. He frequently traveled in search of talented but unfamiliar dancers and companies. Among the American companies he encouraged were the San Francisco Ballet, the Oakland (Calif.) Ballet and Ballet West of Salt Lake City.
        He was an ardent advocate of the choreography of Maurice Bejart, and was one of the first people in dance journalism to call American readers' attention to such choreographers as John Neumeier of Hamburg, Heinz Spoerli of Basel and Eddy Toussaint of Montreal. In 1979, Mr. Como - with Walter Terry, the dance critic, and Randolph Swartz, an arts consultant -helped organize the first International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss.
        Mr. Como is survived by his mother, Janet, of Williamstown, Mass., and a brother, Joseph, of Alexandria, Va.
      