
       Webster B. Todd, a former New Jersey Republican chairman who was an influential party leader in the state for three decades, died of a heart attack Wednesday in his home in Oldwick, N.J. He was 89 years old.
        Webster B. Todd, a former New Jersey Republican chairman who was an influential party leader in the state for three decades, died of a heart attack Wednesday in his home in Oldwick, N.J. He was 89 years old.
        ''A close personal and family friend, as well as a political colleague, Webster Todd always stood for what is right and proper in public life and public conduct,'' Gov. Thomas H. Kean said yesterday.
        Mr. Todd began his career in 1923 as a partner in the Todd, Robertson, Todd Engineering Corporation, a family firm responsible for two projects initiated by the Rockefeller family, the reconstruction of Williamsburg, Va., and the construction of Rockefeller Center. In 1928 he formed his own firm, Todd & Brown Inc. He retired in 1950 and devoted much of his time to Republican politics. Twice Was Party Chairman
        He was the state chairman for the Presidential campaign of Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952. The next year, he was appointed director of the Office of Economic Affairs of the United States mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Paris.
        A specialist in fund-raising, he served as chairman of the New Jersey Republican Finance Committee from 1948 to 1953 and from 1973 to 1974. He was the state party chairman from 1961 to 1969 and again from 1974 to 1976.
        ''He devoted his life to his belief in public service and to the cause of good government,'' Mr. Kean said. ''He was a man of compassion, charm and wisdom.''
        Mr. Todd, who was born in Yonkers, graduated from Princeton University and Fordham Law School. He was a former director of the Equity Corporation and the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. He was a former trustee of Stevens Institute of Technology and the Millbrook School for Boys.
        Surviving are his wife, Eleanor; two daughters, Kate Beach of Washington and Christine Todd Whitman of Far Hills, N.J.; a son, Webster Jr., of Frederick, Md., and eight grandchildren.
      