
       Former Representative Wayne L. Hays, a member of the House of Representatives for 27 years whose affair with a Washington staff member touched off a scandal that destroyed his political career, died today. He was 77 years old.
        Former Representative Wayne L. Hays, a member of the House of Representatives for 27 years whose affair with a Washington staff member touched off a scandal that destroyed his political career, died today. He was 77 years old.
        Jean Walker, a friend of the Hays family, said Mr. Hays died this afternoon at Wheeling Hospital in Wheeling, W.Va., across the the Ohio River from this eastern Ohio town. She said Mr., Hays apparently suffered a heart attack about noon today as he was reading a newspaper at his home. His wife, Patricia, was at his side, Ms. Walker said.
        Wayne Levere Hays, born May 13, 1911, was a lifelong resident of Belmont County and a graduate of Ohio State University. He began his political career in 1939 when he was elected Mayor of Flushing, a town of 1,200 people in rural eastern Ohio, and he held the post for three years. He was elected to his first term in the House in 1948. Powerful and Feared Leader
        By 1976 he was one of the most powerful and feared members of Congress. He was chairman of the House Administration Committee, which oversaw such housekeeping functions as committee budgets, office expenses and travel vouchers. He was chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which dispensed campaign funds to House members and candidates for the House.
        Mr. Hays advocated public financing of Presidential campaigns, but not Congressional campaigns, arguing that with such a law, ''500 candidates would run in every district.'' He was often accused of using his power to bully fellow members of the House.
        In May 1976 an article in The Washington Post quoted Elizabeth Ray, a 33-year-old clerk on the staff of the House Administration Committee, as saying she had been placed in her $14,000-a-year job to be his mistress. Mr. Hays first denied the sexual relationship, but later acknowledged it.
        On Sept. 1, 1976, to stop the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct from investigating him, Mr. Hays resigned from the House. He had previously given up his powerful chairmanships. Investigations Called Off
        The ethics committee then voted to end its three-month investigation of the scandal on the ground that Mr. Hays was no longer a Congressman and thus no longer under the panel's jurisdiction. The Justice Department, which also was investigating, decided not to prosecute.
        After leaving office, Mr. Hays returned to Red Gate Farm, his 300-acre property in Belmont, where he bred Angus cattle and Tennessee walking horses.
        In 1978, he made a comeback of sorts, winning election to the Ohio House of Representatives. He was defeated for re-election in 1980. Role in Local Politics
        In 1980, Mr. Hays became chairman of the Democratic Party in Belmont County and remained active in local party politics.
        Despite Mr. Hays's reputation in Washington as mean and abrasive, many of his blue-collar constituents considered him a man who got things done, pushing through pensions for black-lung disease or obtaining official documents like Army discharge papers and passports.
        He could stand at a rally and call voters by their first names; he sent greeting cards to mark marriages, anniversaries, births and graduations.
        Mr. Hays and his first wife, Martha Judkins, were divorced in 1976 after 38 years of marriage. Also in 1976, he married the former Patricia Peak. The Washington scandal came to light five weeks later.
        Mr. Hays and his first wife had a daughter, Martha Brigitte.
      