
       Gen. Charles L. Bolte, the Army's vice chief of staff from 1953 to 1955, when he retired after 40 years of service, died of a stroke Saturday in Mount Vernon (Va.) Hospital. He was 93 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Gen. Charles L. Bolte, the Army's vice chief of staff from 1953 to 1955, when he retired after 40 years of service, died of a stroke Saturday in Mount Vernon (Va.) Hospital. He was 93 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        The four-star general was a combat veteran of both World Wars. In World War I, he served in France with the 58th Infantry Regiment of the Fourth Division, taking part in the 1918 Aisne-Marne offensive and the battle of Saint-Mihiel. He was wounded in the Meuse-Argonne offensive.
        In World War II, he led the 69th Division on the Mediterranean front, then commanded the 34th Division in fighting along the Arno River, battled through a winter in the Apennines and helped capture Bologna. The 34th claimed a record by completing 500 consecutive days of combat. Its members received nearly 22,000 awards, including 15,000 Purple Hearts and more than 1,000 Silver Stars. Bolte's Decorations
        General Bolte's decorations included two Distinguished Service Medals, a Silver Star, the Legion of Honor, the Croix de Guerre with Palm and a Purple Heart.
        His later posts included Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations, Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans, command of the Seventh Army in Germany and Commander in Chief of the American Army in Europe.
        In 1961, he headed a Pentagon panel that proposed that promotions be based more on ability and less on seniority to help advance promising officers.
        Born in Chicago, he studied chemical engineering at the Armour Institute of Technology while training in Army camps from 1914 to 1916.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Adelaide Carleton Poore; two sons, Col. David E., of Alexandria, and Brig. Gen. Philip L. Bolte, of Burke, Va.; a daughter, Damara, of Leesburg, Va; a brother, Roswell, of Boise, Idaho, eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      