
       Dave Tarras, a clarinetist who was one of America's most important klezmer musicians, died of pneumonia yesterday at South Nassau Community Hospital on Long Island. He was 95 years old.
        Dave Tarras, a clarinetist who was one of America's most important klezmer musicians, died of pneumonia yesterday at South Nassau Community Hospital on Long Island. He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Tarras's style brought together the music he had learned as a child in the Ukraine with the Tin Pan Alley songs and jazz he was exposed to in New York, updating the klezmer dance music brought to the United States by Jewish immigrants. He was a virtuoso player and one of the few klezmer musicians to assimilate American music without losing traditional feeling and inflections.
        Mr. Tarras was born in the village of Ternovka, near Uman in the Ukraine, to a family in which three generations had been klezmer musicians. He learned to play clarinet, and when he was drafted into the Russian army before the Revolution, his abilities led to him performing for generals at the front lines of World War I. In 1921, he fled the massacres of Jews in Russia and came to the United States. Played in the Yiddish Theater
        In New York, he began playing clarinet in theater pit bands, and he soon became one of the top instrumentalists in the Yiddish theater in the 1920's and 1930's. Where the previous generation of klezmer musicians had played E-flat and C clarinets, Mr. Tarras was one of the first to switch to the B-flat clarinet. He performed with the best-known cantors of the day, among them Jan Peerce and Mordecai Hirschman; he also worked with leading Yiddish theater performers, including Molly Picon, the Barry Sisters and Aaron Lebedev, and with composers like Boris Tomashevsky and Sholem Secunda.
        From the 1930's into the 1950's, Mr. Tarras had his own radio show on various New York stations, and he led a klezmer band at thousands of weddings in and around New York City and upstate New York. He also composed hundreds of traditional-style tunes and recorded, beginning in 1924, for labels including Columbia, Victor and Decca.
        By the early 1970's Mr. Tarras had gone into semi-retirement. But he was brought back to performing in the mid-1970's through a project of the Ethnic Folk Arts Center in Manhattan and the klezmer clarinetist Andy Statman. In 1984, the National Endowment for the Arts gave Mr. Tarras a Heritage Fellowship in recognition of his contribution to traditional music.
        Mr. Tarras is survived by his brother Froika, of Brooklyn; his son Sy, of Miami; his daughter Brouny, of Tucson, Ariz., and seven grandchildren.
      