
       Bill Strauss, whose voice was familiar to radio listeners during the nearly four decades he served as an announcer and later news director for WQXR, died of cardio-respiratory failure Saturday at the Salem Hills (N.Y.) Nursing Care Center, where he lived for the past year. He was 74 years old and had been a longtime resident of Somers, N
        Bill Strauss, whose voice was familiar to radio listeners during the nearly four decades he served as an announcer and later news director for WQXR, died of cardio-respiratory failure Saturday at the Salem Hills (N.Y.) Nursing Care Center, where he lived for the past year. He was 74 years old and had been a longtime resident of Somers, N.Y.
        In his deep baritone, Mr. Strauss delivered hourly newscasts on most weekdays. He also introduced many long-running classical music programs on WQXR-FM and -AM, the radio stations of The New York Times, until his retirement in December 1972. Listening to a King
        His career with WQXR began before it went on the air as a commercial station in 1936, when it was known by its experimental designation W2XR. In December of that year, when King Edward VIII of Britain abdicated, the all-music station did not broadcast the king's speech. But Mr. Strauss and the engineer on duty wanted to hear it, so they shut down the station and ran to an adjacent studio to hear the king. Several minutes later they went back on the air, secure in the knowledge that virtually the entire radio audience had shared their listening preference.
        William D. Strauss, who was born in Minneapolis, graduated from the Fieldston School in the Riverdale section of the Bronx and was a premedical student at Johns Hopkins University before turning to the stage and then to radio. In Army in World War II
        During World War II, he served in the United States Army for five years, returning to WQXR in 1946.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edna White; two daughters: Penelope Sparks of Bedford, N.Y., and Amanda Bruder of Mohegan Lake, N.Y.; three sons: Christopher and Richard, both of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and William Jr., of Manhattan; a brother, John, of West Hollywood, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
      