
       Stephen Davison Bechtel, who built a family business into one of the world's largest construction companies, died today after a brief illness. He was 88 years old.
        Stephen Davison Bechtel, who built a family business into one of the world's largest construction companies, died today after a brief illness. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Bechtel was president of the Bechtel Corporation, now the Bechtel Group, from 1935 until 1960. In that time it completed the construction of Hoover Dam, the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and the first commercial nuclear power plant. Bechtel achieved a reputation as a builder of megaprojects around the world, constructing refineries, power plants and thousands of miles of pipelines.
        Since 1960, the company has been headed by Mr. Bechtel's son, Stephen D. Bechtel Jr., who is 63. The elder Mr. Bechtel, until his death, held the title of senior director and remained active in the company for many years after his official retirement.
        The San Francisco-based company, which is still family owned, has long had a reputation for secrecy and for links to high-level Government officials. One of Mr. Bechtel's business associates, John McCone, became head of the Atomic Energy Commission and later the Director of Central Intelligence. More recently, both former Secretary of State George P. Shultz and former Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger were Bechtel officials before joining the President Ronald Reagan's Cabinet. Birth in Indiana
        Born in Aurora, Ind., on Sept. 24, 1900, Mr. Bechtel was the second of four children born to Warren and Clara West Bechtel. Warren Bechtel started in the construction business by hiring out a pair of mules to the gangs laying the first railroad tracks in the Oklahoma Territory.
        He spent much of his childhood living in makeshift railroad cars on railroad construction jobs and began working with his father and brothers, Warren Jr. and Kenneth, during school vacations at the age of 13. After serving as a motorcycle dispatch rider in World War I, Mr. Bechtel attended the University of California at Berkeley but dropped out at the age of 19 to work in the family business.
        In 1935, two years after his father's death, Mr. Bechtel became president of a company that was a growing but still a regional builder of railroads, highways, pipelines and dams. One of his early tasks was to finish the construction of Hoover Dam in 1935, which Mr. Bechtel regarded as one of the major feats of the company. Bechtel was part of a consortium of companies that built the dam.
        Among the projects built under Mr. Bechtel's tenure were the Trans Mountain oil pipeline in Canada; Canol, a 1,600-mile pipeline from the Yukon to Alaska; the 2,200 trans-Canada gas line; and the 1,100 Trans-Arabian pipeline in the Middle East. In World War II, the company built and managed shipyards that produced more than 500 ships. Presidents and Kings
        Under Mr. Bechtel's leadership, the company diversified into construction of nuclear power plants and petroleum refineries and mines. It began a wide range of activities that made it a leading builder in Saudi Arabia and other parts of the Middle East.
        Mr. Bechtel, a gregarious salesmen who sometimes did the initial drawings for major projects on the back of envelopes, knew many presidents and kings on a first-name basis.
        He remained chairman of the company until 1965 and then became senior director, remaining active in the company. At the age of 84, he helped arrange a joint engineering venture with the Government of China.
        More recently, Bechtel has been involved in such projects as the building of the Bay Area Rapid Transit system and the Washington Metro system and the Saudi Arabian industrial city of Jubail.
        Mr. Bechtel, a resident of Oakland, is survived by his wife, Laura Peart Bechtel of Oakland; his son, Stephen Jr., his daughter, Barbara Bechtel Davies, and by 7 grandchildern and 19 great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be private.
      