
       Richard Barr, the longtime president of the League of American Theaters and Producers who died on Jan. 9 at the age of 71, was remembered last night during a tribute at Sardi's restaurant on West 44th Street.
        Richard Barr, the longtime president of the League of American Theaters and Producers who died on Jan. 9 at the age of 71, was remembered last night during a tribute at Sardi's restaurant on West 44th Street.
        The informal gathering was in lieu of a memorial service, according to Charles Woodward, who produced such works as Mart Crowley's ''The Boys in the Band'' and Stephen Sondheim's ''Sweeney Todd'' during a 20-year collaboration with Mr. Barr. ''Richard said that he didn't want a bunch of old men standing up and telling amusing stories until they cry,'' Mr. Woodward said.
        Edward Albee, Colleen Dewhurst, Frances Sternhagen and Elaine Stritch were among some 250 playwrights, actors and producers who attended. Many people spoke of Mr. Barr's dedication to noncommercial theater and his early support for such writers as William Hanley, Terrence McNally, Sam Shepard, Amiri Baraka and A. R. Gurney.
        ''Richard was a big advocate of young playwrights,'' said Bernie Jacobs, president of the Shubert Organization. ''But he'll be most remembered for the Albee plays.'' Mr. Barr first brought Edward Albee's works to American audiences by producing ''Zoo Story,'' ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf'' and other works. 'Such Enthusiasm and Taste'
        ''His respect for and work with playwrights was the most significant part of his life,'' said Harvey Sabinson, the league's executive director. ''He was the inspiration for creating the Theater Development Fund, to give support to noncommercial plays and musicals.'' Mr. Barr's 21 years as league president were ''the time of its greatest expansion,'' he added.
        ''He had such enthusiasm and taste in playwrights and actors, but he was also daring,'' said Miss Sternhagen. ''He wasn't afraid to try something that wasn't going to be a success.''
        And Miss Dewhurst, the president of Actors' Equity, said: ''We aren't left with many producers like him, who really know what they're looking at and why they chose what they did.''
      