
       Alan Civil, a British musician who was regarded as one of the world's most accomplished soloists on the French horn, died of liver and kidney failure on Sunday at King's College Hospital in London. He was 59 years old.
        Alan Civil, a British musician who was regarded as one of the world's most accomplished soloists on the French horn, died of liver and kidney failure on Sunday at King's College Hospital in London. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Civil, who lived in London, was the principal hornist of the BBC Symphony Orchestra from 1966 until last year, when he left the ensemble because of failing health. He was also the president of the British Horn Society, a post he had taken in 1979. He was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1985.
        Besides his orchestral post, Mr. Civil was active as a soloist, chamber musician and freelance recording-session player. Although classical music lovers esteem his recordings of the Mozart Concertos (with Otto Klemperer and the Philharmonia Orchestra), the Brahms Horn Trio (with Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin) and the Britten Serenade (with the tenor Robert Tear), he is known to a much larger audience for the 12-second solo he played on a Beatles tune, ''For No One.''  'Just Another Day's Work'
        ''Even now,'' Mr. Civil told an interviewer recently, ''while only a few people come up to me and say, 'I do like your Mozart horn concertos,' so many others say, 'See that big gray-haired chap over there? He played with the Beatles!' For me it was just another day's work; the third session that day, in fact.''
        Mr. Civil was born in Northampton, England, on June 13, 1929, and studied his instrument with Aubrey Brain and Willy von Stemm. He joined the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra in 1953, and became its principal hornist the following year. In 1955, he moved to the Philharmonia Orchestra, and became principal hornist in 1957. He held that post until he joined the BBC Symphony Orchestra. He also taught at the Royal College of Music, founded the Alan Civil Trio, and was a member of the London Wind Quintet and the Music Group of London.
        Mr. Civil's two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by three sons, Andrew, of Perth, Australia, and Adrian and Robert, who live in England, and three daughters, Diana, Helen and Charlotte, all living in England.
      