
       Louis Dupree, an anthropologist and educator who was an authority on Afghanistan, died of lung cancer Tuesday at Duke University Hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 63 years old and lived in Durham.
        Louis Dupree, an anthropologist and educator who was an authority on Afghanistan, died of lung cancer Tuesday at Duke University Hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 63 years old and lived in Durham.
        Dr. Dupree, who received a Ph.D. at Harvard University in 1955, had been senior research associate of Islamic and Arabic development studies at Duke since 1985. He also held teaching positions at Duke and at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
        His knowledge of Afghanistan, gained from many visits there, the most recent in 1988, was expounded in several books and numerous articles. He became an adviser on Afghanistan to the governments of West Germany, France, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, England and Austria.
        In the United States, he was a consultant on Afghan affairs to the State Department, the Peace Corps, the National Security Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Agency for International Development and the United Nations.
        His books ''Afghanistan,'' published by Princeton University Press in 1973, and ''Afghanistan in the 70's,'' published by Praeger in 1974, were considered the definitive works on the country.
        Before joining the faculty at Duke, Dr. Dupree taught at Pennsylvania State University. From 1959 to 1983 he was an associate with the American Universities Field Staff, a cooperative research and teaching program of 11 institutions.
        He was also a research associate with the American Museum of Natural History from 1959 to 1971 and as director of the American Archeological Mission to Afghanistan led expeditions there. In 1949, while a graduate student at Harvard, he was a member of a team that discovered an ancient imperial capital in southwest Afghanistan.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy; two daughters, Julie Gill, of St. Thomas, Ontario, and Sally, of Newtown, Conn.; a son, Fred, of Los Angeles. and four grandchildren.
      