
       Benjamin F. McLaurin, a longtime labor leader who helped organize sleeping-car porters in the 1920's and 1930's, died of cancer Wednesday at the North Central Bronx Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Benjamin F. McLaurin, a longtime labor leader who helped organize sleeping-car porters in the 1920's and 1930's, died of cancer Wednesday at the North Central Bronx Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Mr. McLaurin, who was also active in politics and civil rights organizations, was named by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1963 to the Board of Higher Education, where he was an early advocate of a broader admission policy by the City University of New York.
        Mr. McLaurin was a native of Jacksonville, Fla., and graduated from Edward Waters College in that city. He later studied at the University of Wisconsin and the New School for Social Research. Joined Union in '26
        He joined the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters in 1926 and served later as a vice president, national secretary, international field organizer and supervisor of the Eastern zone.
        In 1941 he was national secretary for a planned march on Washington to protest discrimination in military plants. The march was canceled after President Franklin D. Roosevelt outlawed racial discrimination in war industries.
        He was also a state vice chairman of the Liberal Party, treasurer of the New York chapter of the Negro-American Labor Council, chairman of the executive board of the National Committee for Rural Schools Inc., and a member of the executive board of the National Religious and Labor Foundation.
        In the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay he was chairman of the Mayor's Committee on Exploitation of Workers. He was later president of the Professional Household Workers Association, formed in 1971 under the auspices of the sleeping-car porters. Mr. McLaurin was also active in Americans for Democratic Action and the Workers Defense League.
        He is survived by a daughter, Dana, and a son, Benjamin, both of Atlanta.
      