
       Said el-Mufti of Jordan Is Dead; Ex-Premier Helped Found Nation
        Said el-Mufti of Jordan Is Dead; Ex-Premier Helped Found Nation
        Said el-Mufti, a former Prime Minister of Jordan who helped lead the country in becoming an independent kingdom, died today, the state-run Jordanian television network reported.
        The broadcast gave no details, including where Mr. Mufti died, the cause of death or his age. By one account, though, he was about 90 years old.
        Mr. Mufti was one of Jordan's most prominent citizens throughout the country's 68-year history, first as an emirate under British protection and later as an independent monarchy. Brake on British Role
        A strong nationalist, he balked at a 1928 constitutional agreement with Britain, arguing that it gave away too much influence to the British for Jordanian affairs.
        Britain was responsible for the old state of Trans-Jordan under a League of Nations mandate. In 1946, it became the independent monarchy of Jordan.
        Mr. Mufti, as Prime Minister from April to December 1950, opposed then-King Abdullah's negotiations with Israel.
        During a second term in 1956, he expressed reservations about the Baghdad Pact, a United States-backed plan to create a belt of anti-Communist nations from Turkey to Iran.
        Mr. Mufti was a major figure in the regency council that governed Jordan between the abdication of King Talal in 1952 and the 1953 accession of the current ruler, King Hussein, who was then a teen-ager. Minority Backed Hashemites
        He was leader of Jordan's small community of Circassians, who had emigrated to Jordan from the Russian empire in the 19th century and who became a bedrock of support for the current Hashemite monarchy.
        Mr. Mufti repeatedly served in Jordanian cabinets from 1929 until the early 1960's, often as deputy prime minister and interior minister.
        One of his sons, Azmi al-Mufti, was assassinated in 1985 while serving as Ambassador to Greece. Jordanian diplomats at the time were targets of a wave of terrorist attacks by Syrian-backed Palestinian factions opposed to King Hussein's American-guided approach to peace with Israel.
      