
       Arnett Cobb, a highly regarded tenor saxophonist who was a featured soloist with Lionel Hampton's orchestra in the 1940's, died of respiratory, liver and kidney failure on Friday in Park Plaza Hospital in Houston. He was 70 years old and lived in Houston.
        Arnett Cobb, a highly regarded tenor saxophonist who was a featured soloist with Lionel Hampton's orchestra in the 1940's, died of respiratory, liver and kidney failure on Friday in Park Plaza Hospital in Houston. He was 70 years old and lived in Houston.
        Known for his exuberant visceral style and big honking sound, the Houston-born saxophonist studied piano, violin and saxophone as a youth and made his professional debut in 1933 with the drummer Frank Davis. Before joining the Hampton band, he worked with groups led by Chester Boone and Milt Larkin.
        In 1942, Mr. Cobb replaced Illinois Jacquet in Mr. Hampton's band, where he remained for five years and became a popular soloist before leaving to form his own group. A spinal operation in 1948 and a 1956 automobile accident that left him permanently disabled interrupted but did not end his career. He performed on crutches for the rest of his life. Leading a Band
        In 1960, Mr. Cobb returned to Houston, where he led his own 16-piece big band, Arnett Cobb and the Mobb, and managed a club, the Ebony. With Mr. Jacquet in 1973, he a Town Hall concert in Manhattan that renewed his reputation. He subsequently toured Europe with his own group, finding an especially warm audience in France, where he recorded several albums. He described himself as a ''straight-ahead jazz player,'' and he performed in nearly all the major jazz festivals around the world.
        In 1978, Mr. Cobb reunited with the Hampton band to tour and record, and in later years he also performed with Mr. Jacquet and Buddy Tate in the group called Texas Tenors.
        ''I never got into be-bop or any of those other styles,'' he said. ''I think you should stick with what you do best, no matter what line of work you're in.''
      