
       Gerald G. Probst, former chairman of the Sperry Corporation and a longtime executive in the computer and military systems industries, died at his home in Salt Lake City last Sunday. He was 65 years old.
        Gerald G. Probst, former chairman of the Sperry Corporation and a longtime executive in the computer and military systems industries, died at his home in Salt Lake City last Sunday. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Probst was the chief executive officer of Sperry when the company merged with the Burroughs Corporation in 1986 to become Unisys. Although he retired shortly after the merger, Mr. Probst continued as a member of the Unisys international advisory board.
        In 1961, after serving in the Air Force, Mr. Probst joined Sperry and in 1968 became vice president and general manager of its Univac division, one of the original computer manufacturers. He was made president of the division in 1971. From 1974 he was successively corporate vice president, executive vice president, president and, in 1982, chairman of Sperry.
        Mr. Probst, a native of Ogden, Utah, joined the Army Air Force in 1942, shortly after he graduated from high school. He commanded a B-24 bomber in missions over Europe during World War II and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with three oak-leaf clusters.
        After the war he received a degree magna cum laude in electrical engineering from the University of Utah and returned to the Air Force in its Research and Development Command. During his military service he also earned a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        For many years, Mr. Probst served on the board of the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh and was a trustee of the Logistics Command Institute in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Forbes Nelson; two daughters, Susan Stevens of Salt Lake City and Kathleen Hess of Colorado Springs, Colo.; two sons, Kevin, of Woodbridge, Va., and Marcus, of Sterling, Va.; his stepmother, Mabel Probst of San Ramon, Calif.; a sister, Sandra Quillicy of Danville, Calif.; two brothers, Keiner, of West Dundee, Ill., and Val, of West Richmond, Wash., and 16 grandchildren.
      