
       John Duka, a journalist who wrote with humor and grace about fashion, art and society, died Saturday morning at his Manhattan home. He was 39 years old.
        John Duka, a journalist who wrote with humor and grace about fashion, art and society, died Saturday morning at his Manhattan home. He was 39 years old.
        His wife, Kezia Keeble Duka, said Mr. Duka died of complications stemming from major abdominal surgery in November. He was diagnosed as having acquired immune deficiency syndrome a year ago, she said.
        Born in Miami, he attended the Medill School of Journalism of Northwestern University. After graduation from Northwestern in 1971, he lived in Florence, Italy, where he taught mathematics and science for three years. Worked at Magazines
        He began his journalism career in the research department of Esquire magazine. He also worked for Simon and Schuster, Home Furnishings Daily and New York magazine before becoming a columnist at The New York Times.
        As a style reporter for The Times from 1979 to 1985, he brought a sharp eye and a leveling wit to the world of fashion. ''He was a remarkable writer, superb at seeing through everything,'' said Carrie Donovan, deputy editor for style of The New York Times Magazine. ''He understood people and situations instantly. This made him, frankly, a dangerous reporter.''
        His weekly column, ''Notes on Fashion,'' documented the parallel rise of downtown chic and uptown hauteur, as well as the grand presentations and pretentions of Paris and Milan. He treated fashion as ''an international sport,'' from the punk parade on London's King's Road to the retro chic of Republican Washington.
        A May 1984 column began: ''One of the requisite skills for sitting at a fashion show is being able to roll your eyes, talk to the person behind you, chew mints and say 'Yves Saint Laurent did it better years ago' all at once.''
        Mr. Duka left The Times in 1985 to become a principal in Keeble Cavaco & Duka, a public relations and advertising agency specializing in life style and fashion. He continued to write for magazines like Vanity Fair, Elle and Interview. He wrote a column, ''Duka's Diary,'' for HG magazine and later became a contributing editor of Vogue.
        Besides his wife he is survived by his mother, Helen, of Miami; a brother, Nicholas, of Lafayette, Calif., and his twin sister, Jo-Anne Duka Chumbley, of Miami. A memorial service will be announced.
      