
       Malcolm Cowley, a literary critic, historian, editor, poet and essayist who was best known for being the most trenchant chronicler of the so-called Lost Generation of post-World War I writers, died of a heart attack Monday.
        Malcolm Cowley, a literary critic, historian, editor, poet and essayist who was best known for being the most trenchant chronicler of the so-called Lost Generation of post-World War I writers, died of a heart attack Monday.
        Mr. Cowley, who was 90 years old, died shortly after being admitted to New Milford (Conn.) Hospital. He made his home in nearby Sherman.
        Mr. Cowley's extraordinarily creative and prolific writing career spanned nearly 70 years, and he continued well into his 80's to produce essays, reviews and books. Player in a Famed Company
        Mr. Cowley notably championed the work and advanced the careers of the post-World War I writers who sundered tradition and fostered a new era in American literature. He seldom included himself as a leading player in that famed company of authors who used Paris at one time or another as a base of operations and whose creativity came to fruition in the 1920's. But he was at the hub of activity and could at least be counted as an important figure even among such writers as Ernest Hemingway, William Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, John Dos Passos, Hart Crane, E. E. Cummings, Thornton Wilder and Edmund Wilson.
        He knew them all and loved them and fought with them, the last despite the fact that late in life he said he was never a big-time drinker or a literary brawler. ''I flunked my post-graduate degree in alcohol,'' he said.
        He possessed a strong sense of ironic detachment in assessing literature, which made him a valued editor at The New Republic and, from the mid-1940's, at Viking Press, the publishing house at which he worked part time until the spring of 1985, when he was 86. It was Mr. Cowley who rescued William Faulkner from possible early oblivion and who discovered John Cheever and goaded him to write. Later he championed such uncommon writers as Jack Kerouac and Ken Kesey. Uncompromising on Quality
        In one of his last books, ''. . . And I Worked at the Writer's Trade,'' Mr. Cowley recalled with pride his determination, formed in his youth, to live only on his literary earnings. Uncompromising in his insistence on literary quality, in his own work as well as that of others, he was widely respected for a trait of character that permitted him to second-guess himself with a rigor that critics with more vulnerable egos envied.
        Like many of his generation who were destined to find fame, fortune and, in some cases, tragedy, Mr. Cowley experienced World War I firsthand, and as a postwar expatriate he joined in questioning the literary values and styles of writers and artists of the past. Together and separately, in those days of cheap living in Paris, he and his peers were initiated into the mysteries of Surrealism, Dadaism and other revolutionary art movements.
        Mr. Cowley's first summing-up of the era did not appear in book form until 1934, long after he had returned to the United States. Most traditionalist critics dismissed Mr. Cowley and the Lost Generation heroes celebrated in ''Exiles Return,'' calling them faddish upstarts, but one, Lloyd Morris, said that Mr. Cowley offered ''an intimate, realistic portrait of the era that produced a renaissance in American fiction and poetry.''
        Later, beginning with one of his most celebrated critical essays, the introduction to ''The Portable Faulkner,'' Mr. Cowley was to kindle new or renewed interest in the work of the best writers of his generation. Faulkner Acknowledged Debt
        The Faulkner collection of short stories and excerpts from longer works, together with Mr. Cowley's incisive introduction, was published by Viking Press in 1946. Mr. Cowley, for many years a consulting editor at Viking, felt that Faulkner was a major American writer who had been ''scandalously neglected.'' The book and its essay opened new vistas for Faulkner readers, and Faulkner himself, some years later, said ''I owe Malcolm Cowley the kind of debt no man could ever repay.''
        Mr. Cowley helped other writers similarly, although perhaps less spectacularly. At The New Republic his major literary discovery was John Cheever, whose first submission attracted him. He induced Mr. Cheever to write daily 1,000-word stories over a period of time until he had mastered the technique. At last Mr. Cowley bought and published the Cheever story ''I Am Expelled From Prep School,'' breaking a longstanding rule against fiction at the magazine and starting Mr. Cheever on a notable career.
        But admire as he did the writers that he helped, Mr. Cowley always reserved the right to review and revise his earlier evaluations of their talents. Even Faulkner, who undoubtedly occupied the highest level in the Cowley pantheon of American literary greats, eventually fell short of his mentor's highest standards. Splendid Failures
        In 1973 Mr. Cowley felt compelled to write that great as Faulkner was, his work could not be properly set beside that of such giants as Dickens and Dostoyevsky. Indeed, he even seemed to agree with Faulkner's own remark that his generation of writers would be judged upon ''the splendor of our failures.''
        Mr. Cowley once said: ''Writers often speak of 'saving their energy,' as if each man were given a nickel's worth of it, which he is at liberty to spend. To me, the mind of a poet resembles Fortunatus's purse: the more spent, the more it supplies.''
        This view seemed to apply to Mr. Cowley, for he devoted more than 65 years to active participation in and lively discussion of the literary movements of his time. In 1973 he published what was perhaps his finest collection of updated literary profiles and essays, ''A Second Flowering: Works and Days of the Lost Generation,'' but even after that he continued to contribute thought-provoking articles to a number of publications, among them The New York Times Book Review.
        Another, updated collection appeared as recently as February 1985. It was ''The Flower and the Leaf: A Contemporary Record of American Writing Since 1941.'' Other books were ''The Faulkner-Cowley File,'' ''Think Back on Us . . .,'' ''A Many-Windowed Room,'' a retrospective of the 1930's as viewed from the 1980's called ''The Dream of the Golden Mountains,'' and ''The View From 80'' - some musings on old age. Books edited by Mr. Cowley included ''The Portable Hemingway,'' ''The Portable Hawthorne'' and ''The Complete Whitman.'' Worked on School Paper
        Mr. Cowley was born in Belasco, Pa., on Aug. 24, 1898, to William Cowley and the former Josephine Hutmacher. His first writing appeared in his high-school newspaper in Pittsburgh.
        He entered Harvard, but his studies were interrupted by World War I, during which he drove ambulances and munitions trucks in France. Upon his return to college he edited The Harvard Advocate in 1919 and graduated the following year. Although by then he had married and was penniless, Mr. Cowley decided he wanted to live in Paris, where, he had heard, the most intense intellectual fires were burning.
        The Cowleys went to France on a fellowship that lasted two years, and while he attended the University of Montpellier he helped make ends meet by writing penny-a-word pieces for American magazines.
        It was during his Paris stay that he was drawn, like so many young intellectuals of his time, to the ideals of Marxism, and he remained sympathetic toward the Communist Party until the conclusion of the Soviet-German pact of 1939. He never joined the party, having reservations about its theory and tactics, and in later years he said he felt abused by the Communist Party. Found the 'Lost Generation'
        It was also during his Paris stay that Mr. Cowley first heard the term Lost Generation, which was coined (and later disowned) by Hemingway, who in turn took it from a remark made to him by Gertrude Stein: ''You are all a lost generation.''
        Mr. Cowley himself, while continuing the use of Lost Generation as a general term during the rest of his life, was not unaware of the perils of giving it a strict definition.
        ''A generation is no more a matter of dates than it is one of ideology,'' he wrote in 1973. ''A new generation does not appear every 30 years.''
        ''It appears,'' he wrote, ''when writers of the same age join in a common revolt against the fathers and when, in the process of adopting a new life style, they find their own models and spokesmen.''
        Mr. Cowley was one of the first of the Paris group to return to the United States in the mid-1920's, but all members of the group traveled freely between Europe and Greenwich Village, then the intellectual and artistic capital of the young in the United States. No Place at the Roundtable
        He longed at first to be a trusted member of the Algonquin Roundtable, but its inner circle, he soon determined, was ''part literary, part theatrical and part indescribable.'' Of the Algonquin group he wrote: ''The literary business was booming like General Motors. In this distinguished vaudeville there wasn't much place for angry young men without parlor tricks who talked seriously about the problems of their craft.''
        While turning out critical essays for generally obscure publications, Mr. Cowley supported himself by translating French works for various publishers and working on the staff of Sweet's Architectural Catalogue. In 1929 he became an associate editor of The New Republic, and remained with that magazine until 1944.
        Malcolm and Peggy Cowley, who were childless, were divorced in 1931, and the following year Mr. Cowley married Muriel Maurer. They took up residence in a converted barn in Sherman, Conn., which was to remain the Cowley home until his death. They had a son, Robert, who became a book editor.
        For years the Sherman house was the meeting place for old friends from Paris, Greenwich Village and elsewhere, although Mr. Cowley was not there at all times. He took extended leaves for visiting professorships at a number of universities, including Stanford, Cornell, the universities of Washington and Minnesota and the University of Warwick in England. First Poem in 1929
        Mr. Cowley's first published long poem, ''Blue Juniata,'' came out in 1929 and was reprinted in 1968 by Viking Press. Included in the volume ''Blue Juniata: Collected Poems'' was a series of five brief poems under the collective title ''Natural History.'' The following excerpt - ''A Resentment of Rabbits'' - is an example of the Cowley approach to poetry:
        At our house not even the rabbits are scared.
        Why, they come out by day and sit on the doorstep chewing euonymus leaves.
        ''Rabbit,'' we say to them, ''Rabbit, go away.
        Feast on delicious weeds, alfalfa in the fields, or dewberry blossoms under the night sky.''
        Rabbit there on the step twitches a sensitive lip and fixes us with the dot of a motionless eye.
        In addition to being a prolific writer of books, among them ''After the Genteel Tradition'' (1937), ''The Dry Season,'' (1941), ''The Literary Situation'' (1954) and ''Think Back on Us'' (1967) - all works of literary criticism or history - Mr. Cowley was the translator of works by Gide, Valery and other French writers.
        The predominant mood of ''A Second Flowering,'' published when he was 75 years old, was mellow, but in that volume, essentially a final assessment of his literary heroes, he made it clear that his devotion to those he referred to as his friends was not blindly slavish.
        For example, he lamented the wasted, self-destructive life of Hart Crane, who died in 1932 at the age of 33, a victim of alcohol and drugs. Denied Political Reasons
        But Mr. Cowley was perhaps toughest in his reappraisal of Dos Passos, whose early work, when Dos Passos was a left-wing radical and anarchist, he admired, but whose vehemently anti-Communist writing after the Spanish Civil War he found lacking in quality. He admired the Dos Passos collage treatment of fiction, in such early novels as ''1919,'' ''In All Countries'' and ''Manhattan Transfer,'' and he insisted that his disillusionment with Dos Passos's later work - like ''Midcentury,'' a 1961 attack on labor leaders -had nothing to do with the writer's reversal in political beliefs.
        Rather, said Mr. Cowley, the writer in his later work broke a rule ''that seems to have been followed by great novelists.''
        ''They can regard their characters with love or hate or anything in between,'' Mr. Cowley said, ''but cannot regard them with tired aversion. They can treat events as tragic, comic, farcical, pathetic, or almost anything but consistently repulsive.''
        Although Mr. Cowley's own prose read well - it was a model of clarity, conciseness and probity - he admitted that this was only because of some rigid rules he imposed on himself. He observed, ruefully, that he was given to a certain prolixity. ''I usually wrote far too much for the occasion,'' he told an interviewer, ''then chopped the manuscript down to size, or sawed it into fireplace lengths.'' 'A Sort of Innocence''
        A tall, rangy man who became almost totally deaf in the early 1940's and had to use a hearing aid, Mr. Cowley said that in his approach to his work ''I try to start with a sort of innocence -that is, with a lack of pre-conception about what I might or might not discover.''
        ''To preserve the innocence,'' he went on, ''I try not to read the so-called secondary or critical sources until my own discoveries, if any, have been made.''
        As to why he devoted so much of his time to writing about the writers of the 20's, Mr. Cowley explained in 1974 that they ''were much more ambitious to produce a masterpiece than writers today.''
        'They were ready to sacrifice their lives to producing it,'' he said. ''Ambition like that is rare now.''
        Defending himself against complaints that he looked backward too much, Mr. Cowley wrote in ''A Second Flowering'': ''I confess to sharing the weakness often imputed to members of the generation, Dos Passos and Hemingway in particular: that of living too much in the past. 'But we had such good times then,' I find myself saying with others. We thought of ourselves as being wise, disillusioned, cynical, but we were wide-eyed children with a child's capacity for enjoyment. Did other generations ever laugh so hard, or do crazier things just for the hell of it?''
        Mr. Cowley is survived by his wife, Muriel, his son, Robert, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      