
       Bill Chappell Jr., a Florida Democrat who served 20 years in the House of Representatives before being defeated for re-election last year amid reports linking him to a Pentagon procurement scandal, died of bone cancer today at the National Institutes of Health. He was 67 years old, Mr. Chappell, who had represented northeast Florida's Fourth Congressional District, was hospitalized at the institutes on Feb.
        Bill Chappell Jr., a Florida Democrat who served 20 years in the House of Representatives before being defeated for re-election last year amid reports linking him to a Pentagon procurement scandal, died of bone cancer today at the National Institutes of Health. He was 67 years old, Mr. Chappell, who had represented northeast Florida's Fourth Congressional District, was hospitalized at the institutes on Feb. 23.
        The Congressman, who was chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, lost last November to a Republican newcomer, Craig T. James, by 791 votes, about three-tenths of 1 percent of the approximately 250,000 cast. Mr. Chappell challenged the outcome for a month before conceding defeat. No Charges Brought
        Mr. James's campaign had emphasized reports linking Mr. Chappell to an investigation of military contractors and consultants accused of bribing Pentagon employees for inside information useful in winning contracts. Mr. Chappell was not charged with any wrongdoing in the case, which has produced a dozen pleas of guilty and is still under way.
        The Congressman had dismissed the allegations as ''bunk'' and ''hogwash.''
        In addition to his 10 terms in Congress, Mr. Chappell served in the Florida House of Representatives for 12 years and was its Speaker in 1961.
        Born Feb. 23, 1922, in Kendrick, Fla., he was a graduate of the University of Florida and its law school. He was a Navy aviator in World War II and was in the Naval Reserve until 1983, retiring as a captain. He was prosecuting attorney for Marion County, Florida, from 1949 to 1954, when he was first elected to the Florida House. Known for Armed Services Work
        He entered Congress in 1969, where he was best known for his work on the Armed Services Committee. He fought to retain a manned-bomber force and advocated a fifth nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. Mr. Chappell also sponsored legislation that created the post of assistant secretary of defense for reserve affairs.
        He was also instrumental in the creation of the 70,000-acre Canaveral National Seashore and the addition of 10,000 acres to the Ocala National Forest.
        Survivors include his wife, Jeane; two sons, William V. 3d and Christopher; two daughters, Judith Gadd and Deborah Bond, and two stepchildren.
      