
       Walter N. Thayer, a lawyer, partner in the Whitcom Investment Corporation and former president of The New York Herald Tribune, died of pneumonia yesterday at New York Hospital. Mr. Thayer, who was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan, had been admitted to the hospital more than three weeks ago. He had suffered from emphysema for several years.
        Walter N. Thayer, a lawyer, partner in the Whitcom Investment Corporation and former president of The New York Herald Tribune, died of pneumonia yesterday at New York Hospital. Mr. Thayer, who was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan, had been admitted to the hospital more than three weeks ago. He had suffered from emphysema for several years.
        Mr. Thayer was for more than 30 years a close associate of the late financier John Hay Whitney, on whose behalf he arranged the acquisition of the financially troubled Herald Tribune in 1958.
        Through the Whitney Communications Corporation, of which he became president, Mr. Thayer also guided efforts to acquire Parade, the profitable Sunday newspaper supplement, and other properties that would help absorb some of The Herald Tribune's losses over the years to come.
        In later years, after The Herald Tribune closed in 1966, Mr. Thayer helped arrange the continued publication of the newspaper's Paris edition, which was renamed The International Herald Tribune. At the time of his death, Mr. Thayer was the newspaper's president. First Job as a Reporter
        Walter Nelson Thayer 3d was born April 24, 1910, in Dannemora, N.Y., a town in the northeastern corner of the state where his father, a doctor, was superintendent of a state reformatory. The family later moved to Ellenville in Ulster County, where Mr. Thayer graduated from Ellenville High School at the age of 16. He then worked for a year as a local newspaper reporter, although, he said later, he had no intention of pursuing a career in journalism.
        Instead, he went to Colgate University, from which he graduated in 1931, worked as a New York State parole officer and then earned a law degree from Yale in 1935. He spent two years as an assistant United States attorney in the Southern District of New York.
        In Washington during World War II, Mr. Thayer was on the legal staff of the Lend-Lease Administration, the War Shipping Administration and the Foreign Economic Administration. In 1945 he became a partner in the New York law firm of Thayer & Gilbert.
        Mr. Thayer won a reputation as a formidable and well-paid lawyer who drove a hard bargain on behalf of his clients. In his book, ''The Paper: The Life and Death of the New York Herald Tribune,'' published in 1986 by Vintage, the newspaper's last literary editor, Richard Kluger, wrote of Mr. Thayer:
        ''Smart, clear-thinking, hardheaded, as personable as any man when he chose to be, Thayer also came to be perceived as cold, guarded, very private and almost ruthlessly dismissive of those he found unworthy or unuseful. Responsible in part for this was a certain wintry look as he reached his late 40's. His hair, already a striking white, nicely set off his strong, mineral-blue eyes and neat, even features; his low, pleasing voice resonated with confidence and command.'' Rescuing The Herald Tribune
        In 1955 Mr. Thayer became a partner in the investment firm of J. H. Whitney & Company and was Mr. Whitney's closest adviser. As Mr. Kluger put it, ''Thayer became a lawyer with only one client, Jock Whitney.''
        In 1957 Mr. Whitney lent The Herald Tribune $1.2 million in the hope that the almost-moribund newspaper could be revived.
        Mr. Thayer began a vigorous investigation of the newspaper's finances, its critical circulation problems and its longtime management by members of the Ogden Mills Reid family. He decided that if any more Whitney money were pumped into The Herald Tribune, Mr. Whitney would have to gain control of the company, which he did.
        In the following years under the Thayer management, the newspaper attracted editors like John Denson and James G. Bellows, who revamped its appearance, and hired such talented reporters as Douglas Kiker, Jimmy Breslin, Tom Wolfe, William Whitworth, Dick Schaap, Seymour Krim and Stuart Loory. A Breaking of Ranks
        But the newspaper continued to lose money, and Mr. Thayer pressed his editors and managers to cut budgets and reduce personnel. And like the other New York newspapers, The Herald Tribune suffered staggering losses during a 114-day printers strike in 1962 and '63. With the newspaper industry strike of 1965, Mr. Thayer concluded that the paper would close if he did not take it out of the Publishers Association and resume publication, breaking a united front by New York's seven newspapers.
        ''I feel strongly that our present action is necessary for the future of The Herald Tribune, and therefore in the public interest as well,'' he said.
        The newspaper, like others in New York, remained in financial straits, and in 1966, to reduce costs, Mr. Whitney and Mr. Thayer arranged a merger of the morning Herald Tribune with The New York Journal-American and The World-Telegram and Sun, both afternoon dailies. The plan was to publish the morning Herald Tribune and a single afternoon newspaper.
        The New York Newspaper Guild went on strike against the arrangement in April 1966, and in the succeeding weeks many of The Herald Tribune's best journalists found other jobs. On Aug. 15, 1966, Mr. Whitney and Mr. Thayer announced that the newspaper had gone out of existence. Joint Enterprise in Paris
        Mr. Thayer and the Whitney company arranged to continue publication of the newspaper's international edition based in Paris, bringing in as co-owners The New York Times Company and The Washington Post Company.
        Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the chairman of The New York Times Company, said: ''Since the moment Walter Thayer and I shook hands on the merger, there have been no problems that the partners haven't been able to resolve through open and friendly discussion. Much of this was due to Walter Thayer's willingness to listen. Further, he was blessed by a good nose for news and high standards of journalistic excellence.''
        Katharine Graham, chairman of The Washington Post Company, said Mr. Thayer ''was committed to the Herald Tribune and later the International Herald Tribune for the greater part of his life.''
        ''We enjoyed a long, beneficial and harmonious partnership,'' she said.
        After The Herald Tribune closed, Mr. Thayer took greater responsibilities in the Whitney enterprises. Mr. Whitney died in 1982.
        From 1969 to 1971, Mr. Thayer was a special counsel to President Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Thayer was also a senior partner with Whitcom Investment Company, which has financial interests in television and radio stations, newspapers and magazines. Whitney Communications Company, of which Mr. Thayer was chairman, is Whitcom Investment's chief operating entity.
        Mr. Thayer is survived by his wife, the former Jeanne Cooley Greeley, of Manhattan; a son, Thomas, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Susan Noble, of Greenport, N.Y., Gail Richter, of Lexington, Okla., and Ann Thayer, of New York, and six grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled for 3 P.M. Friday at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 1 West 53d Street, Manhattan.
      