
       Judson Philips, who wrote more than 100 mystery and detective novels under the pseudonym Hugh Pentecost as well as his own name, died of complications resulting from emphysema Tuesday in the Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Canaan, Conn.
        Judson Philips, who wrote more than 100 mystery and detective novels under the pseudonym Hugh Pentecost as well as his own name, died of complications resulting from emphysema Tuesday in the Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Canaan, Conn.
        Mr. Philips's last mystery, ''Pattern of Terror,'' will be published this spring by Carroll & Graf. His editor there, Margaret Norton, said yesterday that over the years Mr. Philips's novels always contained ''ingenious plots'' and ''smooth transitions.''
        Mr. Philips began his career writing for pulp magazines in the 1920's and 30's. In the early 70's, he described himself as a writer ''who didn't make it on a high level, but a writer who has lived by his rules of simplicity and honesty.'' Some of His Titles
        Among the Pentecost novels are ''The Beautiful Dead,'' ''Death After Breakfast,'' ''Don't Drop Dead Tomorrow,'' ''The Obituary Club'' and ''Bargain With Death.'' Mr. Philips's name appeared on ''Nightmare at Dawn,'' ''Murder Clear, Track Fast,'' ''The Black Glass City,'' ''The Larkspur Conspiracy'' and ''The Vanishing Senator,'' among others.
        At his peak, Mr. Philips turned out approximately three books a year. Even in his final years, though seriously affected by emphysema - he was connected to an oxygen supply - and by failing eyesight that he compensated for by using a large magnifying glass and dictating, he continued to write.
        During his career Mr. Philips also wrote short stories, plays and a newspaper column. In 1950 he helped found the Sharon Playhouse, where he served as a producer and adviser.
        Surviving are his wife, Norma Burton Philips; three sons, David, of Cranston, Conn.; John, of Washington, and Daniel, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and a daughter, Caroline Norwood of Rochester.
      