
       Army Maj. Gen. James H. Rumbaugh, commander of Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died after making a parachute jump in Honduras, the Pentagon said today. He was 49 years old.
        Army Maj. Gen. James H. Rumbaugh, commander of Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died after making a parachute jump in Honduras, the Pentagon said today. He was 49 years old.
        General Rumbaugh died while being flown to the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio from the United States military hospital at Soto Cano Air Base outside Comayugua, Honduras, a Pentagon spokesman said.
        The general, who was described in a Pentagon statement as an experienced parachutist, participated in a jump from a helicopter on Tuesday morning while taking part in the annual Ahuas Tara 89 exercise in Honduras with a surgical team.
        ''He went about his normal duties immediately after the jump,'' the Pentagon statement said. ''But several hours later he sought medical attention for abdominal pains.''
        Defense Department officials who insisted on anonymity said physicians in Honduras discovered bleeding around the general's abdominal wall and recommended that he be flown to Brooke for further tests. Resuscitation Efforts Fail
        ''Preliminary information indicates that the general suffered cardiac arrest on the airplane and medical personnel were unable to resuscitate him,'' the Pentagon said.
        General Rumbaugh, who was born in Washington, Pa., earned a bachelor's degree at Thiel College in Greenville, Pa., and a medical degree at the Thomas Jefferson University School of Medicine in Philadelphia.
        He joined the Army in June 1963 and served his internship and a residency in psychiatry at Walter Reed. He was later assigned to a variety of psychiatry posts, and served in Vietnam with the First Air Cavalry Division. He also served as surgeon for the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, N.C., home of the 82d Airborne Division.
        General Rumbaugh, who was promoted to brigadier general in 1986 and to major general last October, served in 1985 and 1986 as the deputy commander of the Walter Reed center before being named director of professional services for the Army surgeon general. He took command of Walter Reed last August.
        He is survived by his wife, Norma Jean, and four children, John, Kate, Nell and James.
      