
       Dr. Frank J. Curran, a Manhattan psychiatrist, died Wednesday at New York Hospital after being hit by a car. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. From 1945 to 1947, he was chief psychiatrist at St. Vincent's Hospital. He resigned from the post after Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, then a professor at Catholic University, denounced psychoanalysis as an escapist substitute for confession.
        Dr. Frank J. Curran, a Manhattan psychiatrist, died Wednesday at New York Hospital after being hit by a car. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. From 1945 to 1947, he was chief psychiatrist at St. Vincent's Hospital. He resigned from the post after Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, then a professor at Catholic University, denounced psychoanalysis as an escapist substitute for confession. Dr. Curran also withdrew from other posts in the Archdiocese of New York, as psychiatric consultant in the Chancery Office and expert in the archdiocesan matrimonial court.
        After psychiatrists across the nation also protested Monsignor Sheen's sermon, he later explained that he was referring to Freudian analysis only. Born in Minneapolis
        Dr. Curran became a professor of psychiatry at the University of Virginia Medical School, where he stayed until 1958. He practiced privately in New York until 1982 and taught at the New York University Medical School.
        Born in Minneapolis, Dr. Curran graduated from the University of Minnesota and its medical school. He was a senior psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital from 1934 to 1945.
        He was a life fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and former president of the American Association of Psychiatric Services for Children, the Medical Correctional Association, the New York Council on Child Psychiatry and the New York Psychiatric Society. He was a founding member and former secretary of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. He was a member of the Holy See delegation to the United Nations from 1978 to 1980.
        At his death, he was a staff member at the Veteran's Administration Clinic, working with delayed syndrome veterans.
        Surviving are his sisters, Helen and Theresa, both of Minneapolis.
      