
       Maurice Evans, one of the best-known Shakespearean actors of the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday in a nursing home in Rottingdean, near Brighton, England. He was 87 years old.
        Maurice Evans, one of the best-known Shakespearean actors of the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday in a nursing home in Rottingdean, near Brighton, England. He was 87 years old.
        For more than a decade, starting with his acclaimed Richard II in 1937, Mr. Evans represented Shakespeare to American audiences through his frequent and highly popular appearances on Broadway and in productions that toured the United States.
        After Richard II, there were his Prince of Denmark in a full-length ''Hamlet,'' his Falstaff in ''Henry IV, Part I,'' his Malvolio in ''Twelfth Night,'' and his ''Macbeth.'' During World War II, he delighted thousands of G.I.'s with a streamlined version of ''Hamlet'' that toured Pacific military bases. Mr. Evans, who was born in Dorchester, England, became an American citizen in 1941 and served in the Army during World War II.
        Mr. Evans's career also included a close association with the works of George Bernard Shaw, and New York audiences saw him in plays like ''Saint Joan,'' ''Man and Superman,'' ''The Devil's Disciple,'' ''The Apple Cart'' and ''Heartbreak House.''
        But in 1952, after so many years devoted to the classics, Mr. Evans had his greatest success in ''Dial M for Murder,'' a suspense drama by Frederick Knott that ran on Broadway for 552 performances. Debut in London in 1927
        It was Mr. Evans's father who started him on the path to an acting career, in Dorchester, where Maurice Evans was born on June 3, 1901. He made his professional bow on Nov. 26, 1926, at the Festival Theater in Cambridge as Orestes in the ''Oresteia'' of Aeschylus.
        Mr. Evans made his London debut on Aug. 25, 1927, in ''The One-Eyed Herring'' and subsequently played other minor roles until, in January 1929, he scored his first big success as Lieutenant Raleigh in R. C. Sherriff's World War I drama, ''Journey's End.'' His dissatisfaction with a succession of drawing-room comedies and French farces led him to associate himself with the Old Vic Company in 1934. During that season he appeared as Octavius Caesar in ''Antony and Cleopatra,'' Benedick in ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' the Dauphin in ''Saint Joan'' and Petruchio in ''The Taming of the Shrew.''
        His Old Vic successes led in 1935 to an invitation from Guthrie McClintic for Mr. Evans to make his American debut as Romeo to Mrs. McClintic's Juliet, taking over the role from Basil Rathbone. Several years later, he described his reaction: ''I sneaked off to a friend and asked who this Mrs. McClintic was. My friend scolded my ignorance. 'She's only Katharine Cornell,' he said. I rushed back and told McClintic I'd be delighted.''
        After touring with Miss Cornell for several months in ''Romeo and Juliet,'' Mr. Evans made his Broadway debut in the production in December 1935. The following year, he appeared as the Dauphin to Miss Cornell's Maid in ''Saint Joan.'' Late in 1936, he had his first starring role on Broadway, playing Napoleon in ''St. Helena,'' a drama about the Emperor's last days, but the play was not a commercial success. A Hit as Richard II
        This failure was more than offset in 1937, when Eddie Dowling and Robinson Smith presented Mr. Evans in Shakespeare's ''Richard II,'' directed by Margaret Webster. The production, which cost less than $25,000 to mount, paid off its backers three weeks and a day after the Broadway opening and ran for an extraordinary 132 performances at the St. James Theater. Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times: ''Maurice Evans now deserves a sort of reverence for his triumphant performance.''
        Even this triumph was surpassed in 1938 when Mr. Evans produced and starred in the first full-length ''Hamlet'' to be presented in the modern American theater. The play, directed by Miss Webster, occupied almost five hours of a theatergoer's afternoon or evening; there was a lunch or dinner break after the first two hours.
        ''The uncut 'Hamlet' is a wild and whirling play of exalted sound and tragic grandeur,'' Atkinson wrote. ''Mr. Evans acts it as though it were a new text.''
        Shakespeare dominated Mr. Evans's life for the next several years. He played the rotund, low-comedy figure of Falstaff in Miss Webster's staging of ''Henry IV, Part I''; he gave eight performances of ''Hamlet'' each week on a nationwide tour and then in a return engagement in New York in December 1939; and he played Richard II again in April 1940. Later that year, Mr. Evans played Malvolio in the Theater Guild production of ''Twelfth Night,'' directed by Miss Webster, and in 1941 he starred opposite Judith Anderson in ''Macbeth.'' A Captain in the Army
        Mr. Evans became an American citizen in 1941 and in 1942 enlisted in the Army. Commissioned a captain, he was later promoted to major and put in charge of entertainment for the troops in the Central Pacific area, a three-year tour of duty that won for him the Army's Legion of Merit. ''Hey Mac!'' and ''Shoot the Works'' were two of the productions he masterminded, but the most memorable was a ''Hamlet'' that he had cut and speeded up to better suit his G.I. audience. When the war ended, he performed the ''G.I. Hamlet'' in New York under auspices of the producer Mike Todd, and also took it on a tour of the country.
        In a conversation many years later, Mr. Evans would say that he never meant to be typed as a Shakespearean actor, but only wanted audiences to enjoy Shakespeare as ''rattling good shows.''
        In the autumn of 1947, Mr. Evans produced, directed and starred in Shaw's ''Man and Superman.'' Two years later, Broadway theatergoers saw him in a double bill by Terence Rattigan, playing the melancholy schoolteacher in ''The Browning Version'' and a Shakespearean actor in ''Harlequinade.''
        In September 1949 Mr. Evans became manager of artistic affairs of the New York City Center of Music and Drama, where he presented and starred in Shaw's ''Devil's Disciple'' in 1950 and Ibsen's ''Wild Duck'' in 1951. The Malevolent Husband
        In 1952, he turned away from the classics to portray a suavely malevolent husband intent upon murdering his wife, in ''Dial M for Murder.'' The play, which opened in October and kept audiences in suspense until February 1954, was the biggest commercial hit of Mr. Evans's career.
        Attempting to expand his range, Mr. Evans took on, in 1960, the singing role of the crusading Reverend Brock in ''Tenderloin,'' a musical directed by George Abbott, who also wrote the book in collaboration with Jerome Weidman. The venture did not succeed.
        After co-starring with Wendy Hiller in Michael Redgrave's short-lived adaptation of Henry James's ''Aspern Papers'' in 1962, Mr. Evans teamed with Helen Hayes and embarked on a 69-city bus tour to perform a program of excerpts from Shakespeare's works. The production, titled ''Shakespeare Revisited,'' crisscrossed the country, ultimately covering 19,000 miles.
        Mr. Evans made his British screen debut in 1930, in ''White Cargo.'' He didn't make an American movie until 1951 when, arriving in Hollywood after many stage successes, he co-starred with Ethel Barrymore in ''Kind Lady.'' He also appeared as Caesar in ''Androcles and the Lion,'' played a jewel thief in ''Jack of Diamonds,'' was one of Rosemary's few friends in ''Rosemary's Baby,'' and was the Minister of Science and Defender of the Faith in ''Planet of the Apes'' and its first sequel, ''Beneath the Planet of the Apes.''
        He re-created many of his stage successes on television, including ''Hamlet,'' ''Richard II,'' ''Macbeth,'' ''Man and Superman,'' ''Twelfth Night,'' ''Dial M for Murder'' and ''The Tempest.'' By far his best-known television role, however, was as Elizabeth Montgomery's warlock father in the ''Bewitched'' series.
        Besides producing plays in which he himself starrred, Mr. Evans was also the producer of two hits, ''The Teahouse of the August Moon,'' which starred David Wayne and John Forsythe in 1953, and ''No Time for Sergeants,'' which starred Andy Griffith in 1955. ''Teahouse,'' a satiric comedy by John Patrick about the United States Army's occupation of a Pacific island, won the New York Drama Critics Circle award and the Pulitzer Prize in 1954. Produced TV Show
        From October 1955 to March 1956, Mr. Evans was the producer of television's Hallmark Hall of Fame. ''Alice in Wonderland,'' ''Dream Girl,'' ''The Corn Is Green'' and ''The Cradle Song'' were some of the productions he worked on. ''Our job is to lead public taste, not play to what is thought to be public taste,'' he told an interviewer during that period.
        A gum chewer and chain smoker, Mr. Evans relaxed by doing the cooking, plumbing, carpentry and masonry work at his various residences. For many years he owned a home in Ridgefield, Conn., and a cabin on an island in one of the Saranac Lakes in New York.
        At the end of the 1960's, Mr. Evans returned to England. Aside from an infrequent trip to the United States and occasional visits to retired actors in financial need (as a representative of the Actors Fund, of which he was a longtime trustee), Mr. Evans lived quietly in the Surrey countryside that he loved.
        He is survived by a brother, Hugh, of London.
      