
       William Attwood, an author, former publisher of Newsday and former ambassador, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 69 years old.
        William Attwood, an author, former publisher of Newsday and former ambassador, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Attwood pursued several careers, all with success and elan. As a foreign correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune, he wrote compellingly of a Europe reeling from the devastation of World War II. While a European correspondent for Collier's, from 1949 to 1951, he also wrote a nationally syndicated column on foreign affairs.
        He joined Look magazine in 1951, holding several editorial positions as European editor, national affairs editor and foreign editor.
        In 1955, when he returned to the United States, Mr. Attwood, with his wife, Simone, traveled the nation and produced his first book, ''Still the Most Exciting Country,'' published in 1955 by Alfred A. Knopf. Wrote Speeches for Kennedy
        He took a leave from Look in 1960 to write speeches for Adlai E. Stevenson, then a candidate for the Democratic nomination for President. The nomination went to John F. Kennedy, and Mr. Attwood joined his speech-writing staff in 1961.
        When Kennedy became President, he named Mr. Attwood ambassador to Guinea. While there, he contracted polio, which left him partially lame in one leg. ''He could still play tennis, but you had to give him two bounces,'' said Robert Yoakum, a writer and a close friend of Mr. Attwood.
        The West African nation had just won independence from France three years before, and Mr. Attwood prosyletized for increased American commitment. He was credited with Guinea's shift from the Soviet orbit to warmer relations with the United States.
        Following that success, Mr. Attwood was named by President Kennedy as special adviser on African affairs to the United Nations, a post he held until he was appointed Ambassador to Kenya by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. Controversy During His Tenure
        He developed his own style of personal diplomacy. When President Johnson addressed the Congress on his new voting-rights bill, Mr. Attwood sent copies of the speech, along with a personal note, to every member of the cabinet of Kenya, itself struggling with racial issues.
        He resigned as ambassador in 1966 to become editor in chief of Cowles Communications, where he oversaw several periodicals including Look. During his tenure, the magazine serialized ''The Death of a President,'' William Manchester's account of President Kennedy's assassination, which caused Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis to sue the magazine. The suit was dropped when Look agreed to modify some passages.
        Mr. Attwood joined Newsday as president and publisher in 1970. He became chairman in 1978 and retired in 1979 to write books.
        The year before, Mr. Attwood was appointed by President Jimmy Carter as the United States delegate to the Unesco conference in Paris. A Political Satire
        Among his books is ''The Twilight Struggle: Tales of the Cold War,'' published in 1987 by Harper & Row. At his death, he and Mr. Yoakum had completed a political satire, a handbook for politicians, to be published by Harper & Row.
        Mr. Attwood was born in Paris. He graduated from Princeton University. Among his many journalism awards were the George Polk Memorial Award and the Newspaper Guild Page One Award.
        He was a former trustee of Princeton and a former trustee of the Samuel H. Kress Foundation. He was a former visiting fellow of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation and taught journalism and politics at the C. W. Post Center of Long Island University, Yale University and Marietta College.
        In addition, he was a director of CARE, a trustee of the International Center of Photography and a director of the American Committee on U.S.-Soviet Relations. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Century Association, the Council of American Ambassadors, the American Foreign Service Association and the Overseas Development Council.
        Surviving are his wife, Simone; a son, Peter, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Janet Hoglund of Greenwich, Conn., and Susan, of New Canaan, and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 23, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary last Sunday about William Attwood, author and former newspaper publisher and ambassador, misidentified his first book. It was ''The Man Who Could Grow Hair,'' published in 1949 by Alfred A. Knopf. ''Still the Most Exciting Country,'' published in 1955 by Knopf, was his second.
      