
       Archie R. Boe, a former president of Sears, Roebuck & Company and the Allstate Insurance Company, died of cancer Monday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 67 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Archie R. Boe, a former president of Sears, Roebuck & Company and the Allstate Insurance Company, died of cancer Monday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 67 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Boe was born in Estherville, Iowa, and graduated in 1941 from Drake University in Des Moines. He joined Allstate in 1941 and, after Navy service in World War II, received a master's degree from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business in 1950.
        He became Allstate's controller in 1955, vice president and secretary in 1960 and president in 1966. In 1968 he was named vice chairman of the company. From 1972 to 1982 he served as chairman and chief executive officer of Allstate Insurance and Allstate Enterprises. Broadened Company's Services
        As president of Allstate, Mr. Boe led the company from insuring automobiles exclusively to being a multifaceted insurance company. He was a strong proponent of corporate social responsibility and led Allstate's efforts at reducing highway fatalities and injuries.
        In 1982 he was named president of Sears, Allstate's parent company, and concentrated on planning for the company's moves into financial services. He retired in 1984. Mr. Boe was a director of many corporate and cultural institutions, including the Alberto-Culver Company, Delta Airlines, the William Wrigley Jr. Company, the Library Council of Northwestern University, the Lyric Opera Company of Chicago, the Protestant Foundation of Chicago, the Foundation for Teaching Economics and the American Trauma Society.
        He is survived by his wife, Elaine; a son, Michael, of Chicago; a stepson, Dr. James Day of Turlock, Calif.; two stepdaughters, Constance Day of Chicago and Randee Gregos of Manhattan; two brothers, Barney and Edward, both of Estherville; a sister, Ruby Warner of Kansas City, Mo., and four grandchildren.
      