
       Col. James N. Rowe, a United States Army officer who spent five years as a prisoner in Vietnam before escaping in 1968, was shot to death yesterday by gunmen near Manila, where he was a military adviser to the Philippine armed forces. He was 51 years old. Colonel Rowe was being driven to work at the Joint United States Military Advisory Group headquarters in Quezon City, a suburb of Manila, shortly after 7 A.M.
        Col. James N. Rowe, a United States Army officer who spent five years as a prisoner in Vietnam before escaping in 1968, was shot to death yesterday by gunmen near Manila, where he was a military adviser to the Philippine armed forces. He was 51 years old. Colonel Rowe was being driven to work at the Joint United States Military Advisory Group headquarters in Quezon City, a suburb of Manila, shortly after 7 A.M. when at least two hooded gunmen in a stolen car fired more than 20 bullets into his vehicle.
        His driver, Joaquin Vinua, was wounded but was reported out of danger. Colonel Rowe was pronounced dead at a nearby military hospital. Communist Rebels Suspected
        No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, but Philippine officials said they believed the killers were Communist rebels. The rebels have threatened to attack American targets unless the United States closes its military bases in the Philippines and ends its support of the Philippine military's fight against the insurgency.
        In the fall of 1963, Colonel Rowe, then a first lieutenant in the Special Forces serving as an adviser to South Vietnamese irregulars, was captured by Vietcong guerrillas in the Mekong River delta.
        He was held in jungle camps from which he tried repeatedly to escape. Word reached American intelligence officers that he was known to his captors as ''Mr. Trouble.'' For much of his captivity he was held in a bamboo cage and permitted to venture only 40 yards during the day. He busied himself chopping firewood and setting traps to capture small animals to supplement his diet of rice and fish.
        On Dec. 31, 1968, he succeeded in escaping and was spotted by the crew of an American helicopter, which lifted him to safety. Back in the United States and promoted to major, he received a hero's welcome. Chief of the Green Berets
        In the ensuing years, as domestic opposition to the war in Vietnam increased, he became an outspoken defender of the American effort, at one point demonstrating a copy of the cage in which he was held. He wrote a book dealing with his imprisonment, ''Five Years to Freedom.''
        A native of McAllen, Tex., and a 1960 graduate of West Point, he left the Army in 1976 but returned to the Special Forces as a lieutenant colonel in 1981 to become chief of a Green Beret training program at Fort Bragg, N.C.
        In 1985 Colonel Rowe was placed in command of the First Special Warfare Training Battalion at Fort Bragg, a post he held until last May, when he went to the Philippines.
        Colonel Rowe's second wife, Mary, and their two sons, Stephen and Brian, live in Manila. Two daughters by a previous marriage, Deborah and Christina, live in Middleburg, Va.
      