
       Dr. Emilio G. Segre, a nuclear scientist who shared the 1959 Nobel Prize in physics with Dr. Owen Chamberlain for creating an antiproton, or antimatter with a negative charge, died of a heart attack on Saturday while walking near his home in Lafayette, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Dr. Emilio G. Segre, a nuclear scientist who shared the 1959 Nobel Prize in physics with Dr. Owen Chamberlain for creating an antiproton, or antimatter with a negative charge, died of a heart attack on Saturday while walking near his home in Lafayette, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Dr. Segre had been a faculty member of the University of California at nearby Berkeley since 1938. He assumed professor emeritus status in 1972 but remained active in research, writing and lecturing.
        In 1955, he, Dr. Chamberlain and two assistants confirmed the existence of the antiproton, which can destroy both the positive proton of matter and the neutron. Those particles make up the nucleus of atoms. They produced the elusive particle in the university's powerful atom smasher, called the Bevatron.
        The artificial creation of the antiproton lent support to the hypothesis that a mirror image of the universe exists in which the atoms are made up of positively charged electrons and negatively charged nuclei, an anti-universe. Early Work on Plutonium
        In wartime work at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory in New Mexico, Dr. Segre contributed to the discovery of plutonium and in confirming that plutonium was fissionable. In later years, he backed efforts to achieve world peace and bar any use of nuclear weapons.
        Emilio Gino Segre was born in Tivoli, Italy, on Feb. 1, 1905, to Giuseppe Segre, an industrialist, and the former Amelia Treves. He studied engineering at the University of Rome but shifted to physics, where he studied under Dr. Enrico Fermi and earned a Ph.D. His work with the pioneering Dr. Fermi continued for more than three decades.
        After an obligatory year in the Italian Army, he returned to the university, teaching and conducting research for seven years with Dr. Fermi on neutron physics, helping to lay the groundwork for the development of atomic energy.
        He was a professor and chairman of the physics department at the University of Palermo for two years but, as an anti-fascist and of Jewish descent, he came under increasing pressure from the Mussolini Government and emigrated to the United States in 1938, where he began teaching and conducting research at Berkeley. 'Powerful New Tool'
        In World War II, Dr. Segre took a leave from the university and became a group leader at Los Alamos and an American citizen. He returned to Berkeley in 1946 as a physics professor.
        William L. Laurence of The New York Times concluded in 1955 that the professor's experiments with high-energy polarized protons would ''become a powerful new tool for probing the mysterious realms of the nuclei of atoms and the forces that hold the universe together.''
        Dr. Segre's books included ''Experimental Nuclear Physics'' (1953), ''Nuclei and Particles'' (1964), ''Enrico Fermi, Physicist'' (1970) and two volumes on the history of physics -''From X-rays to Quarks'' (1980) and ''From Falling Bodies to Radio Waves'' (1984).
        Dr. Segre's first wife, Elfriede, died in 1970. Surviving are his second wife, Rosa; a son, Claudio, of Austin, Tex.; two daughters, Amelia Terkel, of Tel Aviv, and Fausta Walsby, of Bristol, England, and five grandchildren.
      