
       Hamani Diori, who became President of the sub-Saharan African country of Niger when it won independence from France in 1960, died on Sunday in Rabat, Morocco, according to Moroccan officials quoted by The Associated Press. He was 72 years old.
        Hamani Diori, who became President of the sub-Saharan African country of Niger when it won independence from France in 1960, died on Sunday in Rabat, Morocco, according to Moroccan officials quoted by The Associated Press. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Diori, who held power for 14 years until he was deposed in 1974, was one of the original leaders of postcolonial Africa.
        He had lived in the Moroccan capital for the last two years and had been in poor health. According to a radio broadcast monitored by the Niger Mission to the United Nations in New York, his death followed a heart attack.
        Mr. Diori maintained close ties to France after Niger (pronounced nee-ZHAIR) and several other African countries that made up the old French West Africa become independent almost 30 years ago. Served in Paris
        He was educated in Dahomey, now Benin, and in Senegal. For seven years intermittently between 1946 and 1958, he served as an overseas deputy in the French National Assembly, being named vice president of the legislative body in 1957.
        He became Prime Minister of Niger, then an autonomous French territory, in 1958 and two years later was picked by the French to lead the country as President when independence was granted.
        With the backing of the Niger Progressive Party, which he founded, Mr. Diori was elected to three five-year terms as President. Instability and Graft
        His landlocked country, which lies between Nigeria to the south and Algeria and Libya to the north, was troubled by political instability almost from its founding.
        Corruption also flourished. During a pervasive drought that gripped Africa in the late 1960's and early 1970's, officials of his Government were accused of siphoning off relief supplies and selling them at inflated prices. In April 1974, his army Chief of Staff, Lieut. Col. Seyni Kountche, mounted a coup d'etat, in which Mr. Diori's wife was killed.
        He was imprisoned for six years and later held under house arrest. In 1987 he was freed by President Ali Saibou of Niger and took up residence in Morocco.
      