
       Ferdinand Brickwedde, a physicist who in 1931 produced the first measurable amounts of deuterium, or heavy hydrogen, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Bellefont, Pa. He was 86 years old. The cause of death had not been determined yesterday.
        Ferdinand Brickwedde, a physicist who in 1931 produced the first measurable amounts of deuterium, or heavy hydrogen, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Bellefont, Pa. He was 86 years old. The cause of death had not been determined yesterday.
        The chief credit for the 1931 discovery went to Harold C. Urey of Columbia University, leader of the three-member research team, and he won a Nobel Prize in 1935. The third member was George M. Murphy of Columbia. The deuterium was produced in a low-temperature laboratory at the National Bureau of Standards.
        The team discovered an atom whose nucleus was roughly twice the weight of one atom of hydrogen. It was assumed that the atom contained two protons instead of one. This dismayed physicists: The atom would then have two positive electrical charges, even though, like all other hydrogen atoms, it behaved chemically as though it had a single charge. Many Uses for Discovery
        Also in 1931, in England, James Chadwick discovered a particle, the neutron, similar to the proton but with no electric charge. It was ultimately realized that deuterium contained one proton and one neutron. It was to have many uses - making heavy waterfor nuclear reactors and as fuel in a hydrogen bomb or fusion power generator.
        Ferdinand Graft Brickwedde, born in Baltimore, was educated in Baltimore public schools and at Johns Hopkins University, where he earned his doctorate at the age of 22. He was named chief of the low-temperature laboratory of the Bureau of Standards in 1926. He directed its heat and power division from 1946 to 1956 and established its cryogenic engineering laboratory in Boulder, Colo.
        For seven years, beginning in 1956, Dr. Brickwedde was dean of the College of Chemistry and Physics at Pennsylvania State University. He retired as a professor of physics in 1968.
        Dr. Brickwedde is survived by his wife, Langhorne Howard Brickwedde of Bellefont; two daughters, Langhorne Virginia Brickwedde of Arlington, Va., and Ruth B. Cooper of Linwood, N.J., and a sister, Catherine Wilson of Baltimore.
      