
       Raul Sendic, the founder of the leftist Tupamaro guerrilla movement in Uruguay, died late Thursday at a clinic in Paris after a long illness. He was 64 years old and had gone to France several weeks ago from Uruguay seeking treatment.
        Raul Sendic, the founder of the leftist Tupamaro guerrilla movement in Uruguay, died late Thursday at a clinic in Paris after a long illness. He was 64 years old and had gone to France several weeks ago from Uruguay seeking treatment.
        A spokesman at the clinic where Mr. Sendic sought treatment declined to comment on the cause of death. Reuters reported that people close to Mr. Sendic said he had suffered from a neurological ailment known as Charcot's Joints, which affects the muscles and joints.
        Mr. Sendic quit law school in the late 1950's to join the Socialist Party. But after the party was defeated in two elections, Mr. Sendic resigned and organized poor sugar-cane workers, leading them in strikes and acts of rebellion in 1960 and 1961.
        The Tupamaro guerrilla movement - its name is a contraction of Tupac Amaro, the name of an Inca chief who fought Spanish domination of Peru in the 18th century - came into being two years later when Mr. Sendic and six companions led a raid on a gun club in a rural town 80 miles from Montevideo to seize weapons.
        The Tupamaros waged a relentless battle against the army and the police from 1967 to 1972. Their activities included bombings, robberies, kidnappings and killings. More Than a Decade in Prison
        The exploits of the Tupamaros were the basis of the Costa-Gavras film ''State of Siege,'' which depicted the guerrillas' kidnapping and killing of Dan A. Mitrione, a United States adviser to the Uruguayan police. The guerrillas shot Mr. Mitrione after the Uruguayan Government refused to release 150 political prisoners.
        Mr. Sendic, whose code name was Rufo, spent more than 13 and a half years in jail over two periods of imprisonment. He was first captured in 1970, but a year later led 105 guerrillas in a dramatic escape from the Punta Carretas Prison through a tunnel dug from the prison to a house nearby.
        Then, in September 1972, he was captured again during a gunfight in which he was shot in the face.
        He was released from prison in 1985, under an amnesty declared by the newly elected civilian government of President Julio Maria Sanguinetti. Mr. Sendic reorganized the Tupamaros as a legal political party.
        In a 1987 interview, Mr. Sendic said that a breakdown in communication led to the death of Mr. Mitrione, a former police chief in Richmond, Ind., who was teaching riot-control methods to the Uruguayan police. Mr. Sendic said that a plan merely to hold Mr. Mitrione went awry and that the American was shot in error after a deadline for government action passed.
        According to officials in Montevideo, Mr. Sendic is survived by a wife, a son and a daughter.
      