
       Roy L. Williams, a former president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters who served three years in prison for conspiring to commit bribery, died yesterday at the farm where he lived in Leeton, Mo. Mr. Williams, who was 74 years old, had long suffered from heart trouble and emphysema.
        Roy L. Williams, a former president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters who served three years in prison for conspiring to commit bribery, died yesterday at the farm where he lived in Leeton, Mo. Mr. Williams, who was 74 years old, had long suffered from heart trouble and emphysema.
        Mr. Williams, a farm boy-turned-trucker and career unionist, had a beefy, broad-shouldered frame. Over the years he sometimes protested his innocence and sometimes admitted guilt. But in an interview with The Associated Press last January, he said, ''I am still just an old truck driver at heart.''
        He was president of the teamsters from 1981 to 1983. He succeeded Frank E. Fitzsimmons, who died of cancer, and was succeeded in turn by Jackie Presser. After Mr. Presser's death in 1988, also from cancer, William J. McCarthy, who is now president, took over leadership of the union.
        In testimony at a Manhattan racketeering trial in 1987, Mr. Williams said that as a teamster leader he had long been controlled by Nick Civella, who was identified at the trial as a Mafia leader in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Williams also said Mr. Presser had told him of having links to organized crime. A Fatalistic View
        In that trial Mr. Williams expressed a bleakly fatalistic view of the symbiosis of the teamsters and the Mafia. ''I think that organized crime was filtered into the teamsters' union a long time before I came there,'' he testified in a videotape made while he was imprisoned, ''and it'll be there a long time after I'm gone.''
        But in an interview with The New York Times in May 1982, Mr. Williams talked of what he called harassment of the teamsters by Washington lawmakers. ''Every time those senators or Congressmen find themselves with nothing to do,'' he asserted, ''they look over here and say, 'We haven't done anything with the teamsters lately, let's harass the teamsters.' ''
        In 1982 Mr. Williams was given an indeterminate prison sentence, with a maximum of 10 years, after being convicted of conspiring to bribe Howard W. Cannon, then a United States Senator from Nevada, in connection with legislation on trucking. Mr. Williams had to quit his teamsters post after he was convicted. Parole Granted Last Year
        Last August he was granted a parole because of poor health and because of his role as a Federal witness in criminal court cases, and in September he was released from the Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Mo., where he had been confined.
        Mr. Cannon was not charged in the bribery case, but four of Mr. Williams's co-defendants were convicted along with the teamster leader, who asserted that he was not guilty. Three years later, however, he admitted his involvement in the case while testifying at a racketeering trial in Kansas City.
        Documents entered into court records this year indicated that Mr. Presser was apparently a major source of the information used in the indictment and conviction of Mr. Williams.
        In his testimony at the Manhattan trial two years ago Mr. Williams said that in 1967, when he was president of a teamsters' local in Kansas City, he began being dominated by Mr. Civella, the Mafia leader. Death Threats Recalled
        Mr. Williams said Mr. Civella's underlings told him that if he did not cooperate his family and then he himself would be killed.
        Mr. Williams also testified at the Manhattan trial that Mr. Civella had encouraged him to become a candidate for president of the international, saying the Mafia leader told him, ''We're going to do everything we can to get you elected.''
        Mr. Williams, whose union career was advanced by an earlier president of the teamsters, James R. Hoffa, was a vice president of the union when he was elected president in 1981 despite a pending indictment on charges involving union misdeeds and widespread reports that he was linked to organized crime.
        Roy Lee Williams was born on March 22, 1915, in Ottumwa, Iowa. He was one of 12 children in his family, and had a hardscrabble boyhood in the Ozark Mountains of southwestern Missouri. He began as a trucker in 1935, hauling livestock to Chicago. He later rose in the leadership of the teamsters' Local 41 in Kansas City and became influential in the union's pension matters. A Keen and Forceful Bargainer
        As a union executive Mr. Williams acquired a reputation of being a keen and forceful bargainer with an excellent command of trucking contracts. In his first year as president of the international, facing problems stemming from a lagging economy and the deregulation of the trucking industry, he largely avoided interviews.
        But, reflecting on his union career in the interview last January, he said: ''It's over now and I am glad of it. I still have to meet my maker, but I can still say I didn't do nothing wrong.''
        His death leaves David Beck as the only living former president of the teamsters. Mr. Hoffa disappeared outside a restaurant in a suburb of Detroit on July 30, 1975. His body has never been found.
        Mr. Williams is survived by two daughters and a grandson.
      