
       Jack Cummings, who as a veteran staff producer for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was responsible for the motion-picture musicals ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' died of a heart attack Friday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 84 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        Jack Cummings, who as a veteran staff producer for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was responsible for the motion-picture musicals ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' died of a heart attack Friday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 84 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        Mr. Cummings's association with M-G-M spanned some 40 years. A nephew of Louis B. Mayer, onetime head of the studio, Mr. Cummings went to work in the property department when he was 17.
        He later became a producer, working on short subjects before moving on to full-length pictures. Among his productions were ''The Winning Ticket'' and ''Born to Dance'' in the 1930's and ''Go West,'' ''Ship Ahoy,'' ''Bathing Beauty'' and ''Neptune's Daughter'' in the 1940's.
        He produced ''Three Little Words'' (1950), ''Lovely to Look At'' (1952) and, the following year, ''Kiss Me Kate.'' His ''Seven Brides For Seven Brothers'' was reportedly M-G-M's biggest money maker of 1954.
        His other work at M-G-M in the 1950's included ''Interruped Melody'' and ''The Teahouse of the August Moon.'' He then left the studio to become an independent producer affiliated with Twentieth Century-Fox and produced the 1959 remake of ''The Blue Angel'' and the 1960 movie version of the Abe Burrows-Cole Porter Broadway musical ''Can-Can.''
        Mr. Cummings returned to M-G-M to produce ''Viva Las Vegas'' (1964) with Elvis Presley.
        Mr. Cummings is survived by four daughters, Julie Cummings Siff, of Manhattan, Kathy Cummings St. Aubin, of Los Angeles, Linda Kern Cummings, of Danville, Ky., and Carla Cummings, of Beverly Hills; two sisters, Ruth Rowland, of Leisureworld, Calif., and Mitzie Fielding, of Brentwood, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      