
       Bill Gunn, a playwright, screenwriter, novelist and actor, died Wednesday in Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital, one day before his play ''The Forbidden City'' opened at the Public Theater. He was 59 years old and lived in Tappan, N.Y.
        Bill Gunn, a playwright, screenwriter, novelist and actor, died Wednesday in Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital, one day before his play ''The Forbidden City'' opened at the Public Theater. He was 59 years old and lived in Tappan, N.Y.
        Joseph Papp, the head of the New York Shakespeare Festival and director of Mr. Gunn's new work, said the playwright had been hospitalized with meningitis and had died of encephalitis.
        The current play is one of several Mr. Gunn wrote over the last 29 years. His first creation was ''Marcus in the High Grass,'' in 1960. His other dramas include ''Johnnas,'' which was made into a telefilm and won an Emmy award in 1972, and ''Black Picture Show,'' which Mr. Papp produced in 1975.
        Mr. Papp said yesterday that Mr. Gunn was ''one of the great black writers.''
        ''He understood the kind of psychological relationship of blacks to whites more than anybody,'' Mr. Papp said. ''He sort of knew both sides of the story in an emotional way.'' Mr. Papp said he would probably produce two remaining plays by Mr. Gunn, and he added that the writer had ''left all his manuscripts and plays and all of his writings to the New York Shakespeare Festival.'' Started as an Actor
        Mr. Gunn, a native of Philadelphia, began his theatrical career as an actor. He had roles in the feature film ''The Sound and the Fury'' in 1959, made his Broadway debut in 1954 in ''The Immoralist'' and performed in the Off Broadway drama ''Take a Giant Step'' in 1956. He also toured with ''A Member of the Wedding'' in the late 1950's. Mr. Gunn appeared on ''Look Up and Live'' on CBS Television and wrote plays for live television anthology series.
        Mr. Gunn also wrote and directed feature films. His best-known work was ''Ganja and Hess,'' a vampire story that developed a cult following. He directed ''The Alberta Hunter Story,'' for the BBC.
        Mr. Gunn had definite ideas about his work. ''I've liked every script I've ever written,'' he told an interviewer in 1971, and ''I've hated every movie made from them.''
        Mr. Gunn wrote two novels, ''All the Rest Have Died,'' about a black man's success in the theater, and ''Rhinestone Sharecropping,'' on a black screenwriter's humiliation in Hollywood, which he also reworked for the stage.
        Audreen Ballard, the executive editor of Lear's magazine and a friend of the playwright, said yesterday that Mr. Gunn ''had a wonderful sense of the moods and nuances that texture many of our lives, and he never explored anything in an ordinary way. Being taken with the mystery, secrets and one's emotional inner sanctums, he explored them with a verve and imagination that refused to be hemmed in and confined by traditional stereotypes and judgments.''
        Mr. Gunn is survived by his mother, Louise, of Philadelphia.
        Correction:  April 10, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary and a headline on Friday about the death of Bill Gunn, a playwright, screenwriter, novelist and actor, gave his age incorrectly in some editions, as did a cross reference alongside a review of his play ''The Forbidden City.'' He was 59 years old.
      