
       Clarence Norris, the last survivor of the ''Scottsboro Boys'' rape case, which became a symbol of racial injustice in the Deep South in the 1930's, died Monday at Bronx Community Hospital after a long illness. He was 76 years old.
        Clarence Norris, the last survivor of the ''Scottsboro Boys'' rape case, which became a symbol of racial injustice in the Deep South in the 1930's, died Monday at Bronx Community Hospital after a long illness. He was 76 years old.
        Mr. Norris, who was sentenced to death three times in a series of trials involving nine black teen-agers accused of raping two white women, spent 15 years in prison. He was then a fugitive for 30 years after he violated his parole and fled Alabama. He came to New York City, where he worked as a warehouseman.
        It was not until 1976, when he was 64 years old, that the Alabama Pardon and Parole Board unanimously found that Mr. Norris was innocent of the rape charges. Gov. George C. Wallace signed the pardon order. Attention of the World
        The ''Scottsboro Boys'' case won worldwide attention as the nine defendants, aged 13 to 19 at the time of the alleged crime, became symbols in the conflict between Northeastern liberals and Southern conservatives.
        The case began March 25, 1931, when the youths, who had caught a freight as they headed north to seek jobs, were taken off the train at Paint Rock, Ala., and taken to the nearby jail at Scottsboro. They were all charged with rape.
        Mr. Norris and the other youths were caught on the same train, but in different cars, with two white women, who said they had been raped. Following one of a series of trials, which dragged on until 1937, one of the women withdrew her accusation.
        In ''The Last of the Scottsboro Boys,'' his 1979 autobiography written with Sybil D. Washington, Mr. Norris contended that the black youths were scapegoats, caught at the wrong place at the wrong time with two white women who were afraid they would be accused of fraternizing with blacks. Pawns in a Struggle
        Once arrested and charged, the youths became pawns in a political struggle between the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Communist Party and the socialist International Labor Defense.
        ''Neither group wanted to handle the case unless all of us signed with them exclusive,'' Mr. Norris said. ''I never did understand why they couldn't work together, since they all said they wanted to see us free.''
        The International Labor Defense won the right to defend the youths and hired a well known New York lawyer, Samuel S. Liebowitz, who in the course of the trials was reviled publicly by some as a ''meddling New York Jew.'' He received so many threats on his life that at one point Mayor Fiorello La Guardia sent two New York city detectives to Alabama to guard him. Rungs on a Ladder
        Mr. Norris was sentenced to death three times. In fact, all but the youngest defendant were sentenced to death. Although none was executed, all went to prison.
        In the end, they served as rungs on a ladder for a lot of people involved in the case. ''Reputations were won and lost,'' said Mr. Norris. ''Organizations became larger and better known. Newspapers sold better, deputies became sheriffs, elected sheriffs were re-elected and went on to better positions.''
        Finally having gotten his death sentences reduced to life imprisonment, Mr. Norris was paroled in 1946. But he said he could not escape the ''Scottsboro boy'' stigma, and so he took his brother's name and came north to live.
        He said that in 1970 he decided to clear his name, and he did so with the conspicuous help of the N.A.A.C.P., in particular an association lawyer, James I. Meyerson, who handled his appeal for a pardon. The appeal also had the backing of William J. Baxley, who was then the Attorney General of Alabama.
        ''A man should never give up hope,'' Mr. Norris said after receiving his pardon. ''I'm just so glad to be free. They had said that I was a nobody, a dog, but I stood up and I said the truth. Somebody's got to do these things in life.''
        Mr. Norris, who was born in Warm Springs, Ga., on July 12, 1912, is survived by his wife, Melba, and two daughters, Deborah N. Webster and Adele Norris, all of Brooklyn, and three sisters, Evaneza Ward and Virginia Ferrier, both of Cleveland, and Blanche Norris, of Zebulon, Ga.
        Plans for a funeral service tomorrow were incomplete yesterday.
      