
       Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon of the Federal District Court in Manhattan died of a cerebral hemorrhage yesterday morning at White Plains Hospital. He was 76 years old and a resident of White Plains.
        Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon of the Federal District Court in Manhattan died of a cerebral hemorrhage yesterday morning at White Plains Hospital. He was 76 years old and a resident of White Plains.
        In the last 30 years Judge MacMahon had presided over some of the most famous trials of organized-crime figures and had gained a reputation as a fair, diligent judge and as a teacher and role model for his law clerks, who included the former United States Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani and David Denton, chief of the criminal division in the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan. He was appointed to the Federal bench in 1959 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        Judge MacMahon had served as a chief assistant United States attorney in Manhattan from 1953 to 1957. In 1955 he successfully prosecuted the Mafia boss Frank Costello for income-tax evasion.
        In 1961 Judge MacMahon presided over the conviction of the Bonanno crime family boss Carmine Galante and many other defendants in a drug-trafficking case. The trial was marked by the defendants' outrageous behavior. They threw objects and shouted obscenities, prompting Judge MacMahon to have them handcuffed, shackled and gagged so that the trial could proceed. Many judges still view his action as a precedent that has enabled them to establish control in unruly courtrooms. An Adviser to Giuliani
        Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that Judge MacMahon was his mentor and adviser on personal and career matters, including his decision to enter this year's New York City mayoral race. Mr. Giuliani recalled that during trial breaks, Judge MacMahon would convene a meeting of his clerks in his robing room and asked them what they would do if they were participating in the case, either as lawyer or judge.
        ''He was offended and upset when lawyers were not prepared,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''But he was a great admirer of hard-working lawyers. There was no fooling him.''
        Judge MacMahon was a graduate of the Cornell University School of Arts and Sciences and the Cornell School of Law and served as a lieutenant in the Navy during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Margaret Daly; three daughters, Patricia Milano of Teaneck, N.J., Kathleen Taylor of Bronxville, N.Y., and Theresa Finneran of Rye, N.Y.; a son, John, of Marshfield, Mass.; a sister, Dolores Wagner of Elmira, N.Y., and 12 grandchildren.
        The funeral will be at 10 A.M. Wednesday at St. Bernard's Church, 51 Prospect Street in White Plains.
      