
       Lloyd Bentsen Sr., the millionaire rancher whose son. Lloyd Jr., was the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1988, was killed early this morning in a traffic accident in Edinburg, Tex. He was 95 years old.
        Lloyd Bentsen Sr., the millionaire rancher whose son. Lloyd Jr., was the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1988, was killed early this morning in a traffic accident in Edinburg, Tex. He was 95 years old.
        The Edinburg police said Mr. Bentsen had failed to stop at a stop sign and the sedan he was driving was hit on the driver's side by a car that had the right of way. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
        The driver of the other car, 22-year-old Ramiro Rosales, was treated for cuts and bruises and was released. His sister, Margarita, a passenger, was hospitalized with nose and throat injuries.
        The 7 A.M. accident occurred about 30 miles southeast of Mr. Bentsen's ranch, the Arrowhead.
        In an interview last summer, the elder Mr. Bentsen said he enjoyed rising before daybreak, driving around his property, then heading to his office to conduct a full day's business.
        Mr. Bentsen was a nearly legendary figure in South Texas, where he arrived almost penniless in 1917 and amassed a fortune in real estate, oil and cattle with an estimated worth of $50 million to $100 million.
        One of six children of Danish parents, he was reared on a small farm in South Dakota. He left school at the age of 13 and spent his teen-age years taming wild mustangs and working for farmers harvesting grain.
        He joined the Army in World War I and was stationed in Texas, where he met Edna Ruth Colbath, whom he called Dolly and who became his wife. Mrs. Bentsen died in 1977. Asked last summer whether his son would make a good Vice President, Lloyd Bentsen Sr. replied: ''He is a good man because he had such a beautiful mother. Let me tell you about my Dolly.''
        In the 1920's Mr. Bentsen began investing in real estate in the lush Rio Grande Valley, selling much of the land and farming the rest with hired laborers from Mexico.
        In the mid-1950's a rash of lawsuits - ''15, 16, 17 suits altogether, a lot of them'' by Mr. Bentsen's recollection -accused him of selling dry land that he had represented as being irrigated. There was no finding of fraud, but Mr. Bentsen was ordered by the court to pay $5,000 to at least one plaintiff. Mr. Bentsen argued that he was not the actual seller of the land, although he was the original owner and still held legal claims on it when the controversy arose.
        Senator Bentsen never entered his father's real estate business, the Bentsen Development Company. Instead his father and uncle invested $7 million to organize a Houston insurance company and Senator Bentsen served as president of that company until he ran for the Senate in 1970. The Senator has described his father as ''my best friend.''
        In addition to Senator Bentsen, Mr. Bentsen is survived by two other sons: Kenneth of Houston, and Don of McAllen, Tex., and a daughter, Betty Winn, also of McAllen.
      