
       Willard Francis McCormick, a founder and former chairman of Cresap, McCormick & Paget, the management consulting business, now part of Towers Perrin, died of a stroke Saturday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Darien, Conn.
        Willard Francis McCormick, a founder and former chairman of Cresap, McCormick & Paget, the management consulting business, now part of Towers Perrin, died of a stroke Saturday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Darien, Conn.
        Mr. McCormick, who joined the Navy in 1942 as a lieutenant commander, founded the firm with Col. Mark W. Cresap of the Army and Capt. Richard M. Paget of the Navy. He had met the two officers while working in the Navy Secretary's office in Washington.
        From a small office at 120 Broadway, the firm grew by helping corporations and institutions like the Ford Motor Company and Westinghouse. It eventually had worldwide operations, with offices in New York, Chicago and San Francisco.
        Mr. McCormick was senior partner until the firm was incorporated in 1969, when he was named chairman. He remained chairman while the company was owned by Citicorp from 1970 to 1977, after it went private again and when it merged with Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby. He retained the title of chairman until retiring in 1987.
        Mr. McCormick was a former governor of the Foreign Policy Association, a trustee of the Thomas Alva Edison Foundation and a member of the Cardinal's Committee for the Laity. He had also been on the boards of the Carborundum Company, the Chicago Pneumatic Tool Company, Farrell Steamship Lines, the Midland Capital Corporation and the Schering-Plough Corporation.
        Mr. McCormick was born in Tonawanda, N.Y. He joined the Remington Rand Company in 1920. In 1938, he went to the United States Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh as a management analyst and remained there until 1942.
        Surviving are his wife, Phyllis; three sons, Willard and John, both of Darien, and Thomas, of Boulder, Colo.; three daughters, Anne, of Greenwich, Conn., Cathleen, of Cambridge, Mass., and Margaret, of Manhattan, and a sister, Genevieve Berhalter of Williamsville, N.Y.
      