
       Abbie Hoffman, the writer and antiwar protester who founded the Yippie movement in the 1960's and became a symbol of radical activism, was found dead Wednesday night at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 52 years old.
        Abbie Hoffman, the writer and antiwar protester who founded the Yippie movement in the 1960's and became a symbol of radical activism, was found dead Wednesday night at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 52 years old.
        Mr. Hoffman was discovered about 8:15 P.M., lying in his bed fully clothed, said the Bucks County District Attorney, Alan Rubenstein. The results of an autopsy are to be announced today.
        Mr. Rubenstein said he found the body after receiving a call from Mr. Hoffman's landlord asking for assistance. ''We suspect no foul play,'' said Mr. Rubenstein.
        Mr. Hoffman rose to national prominence with the Chicago Seven, a group of radicals who stood trial on charges of conspiring to disrupt the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. They were acquitted of conspiracy, but Mr. Hoffman and four others were convicted of crossing state lines with intent to riot. The conviction was eventually overturned. Went Underground in 1974
        At the Chicago Seven trial, Mr. Hoffman angered the court by taking note that the presiding Federal District judge, Julius C. Hoffman, had the same last name and saying the judge was his ''illegitimate father.''
        Abbie Hoffman went underground from 1974 to 1980, under threat of a long sentence on cocaine charges. He had plastic surgery but nevertheless was recognizable as a renegade protester.
        For a time, he masqueraded through Europe as a food reviewer and then lived under the name Barry Freed in a small community in upstate New York.
        He surfaced again on national television, with Barbara Walters on ABC, on Sept. 3, 1980. The next day, he surrendered in New York City, insisting that the passions of the 1960's had cooled enough for him to expect lenient treatment. He pleaded guilty and served time on lesser charges. Lectured at Colleges
        He again made headlines in 1987, when he was arrested with Amy Carter, the daughter of former President Jimmy Carter, in a protest in Massachusetts against the Central Intelligence Agency.
        In an interview at the time, he chafed at the idea that he was a ''60's radical.''
        He made his debut as a comedian in New York last summer and lectured at 50 colleges and universities a year, most recently on such issues as racial separation in South Africa and United States involvement in Central America. He gave his profession as ''community organizer'' and said he made his living primarily through public speaking.
        In an interview in 1987, he described his political views: ''You are talking to a leftist. I believe in the redistribution of wealth and power in the world. I believe in universal hospital care for everyone. I believe that we should not have a single homeless person in the richest country in the world. And I believe that we should not have a C.I.A. that goes around overwhelming governments and assassinating political leaders, working for tight oligarchies around the world to protect the tight oligarchy here at home.''
        Abbie Hoffman was born Abbott Hoffman in 1936, in Worcester, Mass., the oldest of three children.
        By his own description, he was a troublemaker from the start. He was expelled from Classical High School in Worcester after a fight with his English teacher and finally graduated from Worcester Academy, a private school. Brandeis Graduate
        He then attended Brandeis University, where he was influenced by the radical social views of Herbert Marcuse. He graduated from Brandeis in 1959 with a B.A. degree in psychology.
        He got his first taste of activist politics a year later while doing graduate work in psychology at the University of California at Berkeley.
        In 1963, he went to work as a traveling salesman of pharmaceuticals, but continued to devote much of his time to his activism.
        He shifted his energies to opposing the Vietnam War and moved to the East Village in Manhattan, joining the hippies who thronged there. He easily identified with the restless, rebellious children of the middle class who sought to replace guns with flowers, and he broadened their form of protest.
        ''Personally, I always held my flower in a clenched fist,'' he wrote in his autobiography, ''Soon to Be a Major Motion Picture,'' published by Putnam in 1980. ''A semi-freak among the love children, I was determined to bring the hippie movement into a broader protest.'' 'One-of-a-Kind'
        He organized the Youth International Party, with followers who came to be known as Yippies, and gained national attention.
        Mr. Hoffman moved to New Hope several years ago to join in a protest over the Point Pleasant Pump project. It was being built by the Philadelphia Electric Company to pump water out of the Delaware River at Point Pleasant to the Limerick nuclear-power plant in Pennsylvania.
        Jerry Rubin, one of the Chicago Seven, called Mr. Hoffman a ''one-of-a-kind American hero.''
        ''He was a very rare person who cannot be replaced,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''He combined humor and commitment and dedication, and his whole life stood for something.''
        Jonathan Silvers, who co-wrote an anti-drug-testing book with Mr. Hoffman in 1987 titled ''Steal This Urine Test,'' published by Penguin, said there had been no indication recently that Mr. Hoffman was ill. ''I'm 27 years old,'' Mr. Silvers said Wednesday night, ''and he would whip me on the tennis court.''
        Mr. Hoffman also collaborated with Mr. Silvers on a book about the 1988 Presidential campaign titled ''The Faking of the President: Politics in the Age of Illusion.'' It is to be published in the fall. Protest and Laughter
        William Kunstler, the lawyer who represented Mr. Hoffman in the Chicago Seven trial, said his client ''never failed to bring political satire'' to his causes, whether he was nominating a pig for president during the 1968 Democratic convention, throwing dollar bills on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange or demonstrating against the Pentagon.
        ''He taught people how to bring theater into political demonstrations,'' Mr. Kunstler said. ''No one else but Abbie has ever been able to create political protests by creating laughter.''
        Timothy Leary, the onetime apostle of LSD, was quoted by The Associated Press as saying Mr. Hoffman was brilliant and ''an American legend.''
        ''He was up there in the hall of fame with rebel Huck Finn, rowdy Babe Ruth, crazy Lenny Bruce,'' Dr. Leary said. ''He was a hustler, a base stealer, a wild free spirit and a gambler.''
        Mr. Hoffman's brother, Jack, said at his home in Framingham, Mass.: ''Abbie was shy. He was only an extrovert politically, not socially.''
        Another book by Mr. Hoffman, ''The Best of Abbie Hoffman,'' is to be brought out in September by a Manhattan publisher, Four Walls, Eight Windows. It is to be a collection drawn from his previous writings.
        Four Walls, Eight Windows is also publishing this year a new book about the 1968 Democratic Convention by John Schultz, a Chicago writer and teacher. 'He Acted Very Tired
        Speaking from his Chicago writing studio, Mr. Schultz said yesterday that Mr. Hoffman sounded tired and listless, and his speech was somewhat slurred, when Mr. Schultz interviewed him by telephone on Sunday for the convention book.
        ''He acted very tired and without much energy and motivation,'' Mr. Schultz recalled. ''But still he was responding intelligently to the questions that I was asking.''
        ''What I heared in his voice disturbed me,'' Mr. Schultz added, ''because he seemed so - I suppose depressed is the word for it.''
        The Associated Press reported that Mr. Hoffman's landlord, Michael Waldron, had told the police, after finding his body, that Mr. Hoffman had been depressed about an auto accident in which he suffered a leg fracture last June.
        Mr. Hoffman's marriage to Anita Kushner ended in divorce. His longtime companion was Johanna Lawrenson.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Hoffman is survived by two sons, Andrew, of Braintree, Mass., and America, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Delia, of Los Angeles; a sister, Phyllis, of Mexico City, and his mother, Florence Hoffman of Worcester.
        Jack Hoffman said no funeral arrangements had yet been made.
      