
       Nathan L. Jacobs, a retired associate justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court and an influential figure in court reform in the state, died yesterday at his home in Livingston, N.J. He was 83 years old.
        Nathan L. Jacobs, a retired associate justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court and an influential figure in court reform in the state, died yesterday at his home in Livingston, N.J. He was 83 years old.
        Justice Jacobs was a protege and longtime associate of the late Chief Justice Arthur T. Vanderbilt, who assumed the state's top judicial post after the 1947 constitutional convention that formulated the present New Jersey court system. The two men were major forces in the revamping of the court system and were guiding personalities on the courts in the ensuing decades.
        Justice Jacobs, who grew up in Bayonne, was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and received bachelor's and doctoral degrees in law from Harvard.
        In 1928 he joined Mr. Vanderbilt's law practice, branching out on his own four years later in the firm of Frazer, Stoffer & Jacobs, where he remained until he went on the bench in 1948.
        From 1934 to 1939 he was chief deputy commissioner of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and for three years during World War II he was district enforcement attorney for the Office of Price Administration. He taught administrative law at Rutgers Law School from 1929 to 1948.
        Gov. Alfred E. Driscoll appointed him to the State Supreme Court in 1948, a short time before the revised court organization took effect. Later that year, Chief Justice Vanderbilt named him senior judge of the Appellate Division of Superior Court, a post he held for four years until Governor Driscoll named him to the Supreme Court again. He served there until his retirement in 1975.
        Justice Jacobs is survived by his wife, the former Bernidine Rosenbaum; two daughters, Ellen Coburn of Livingston and Nancy Grossman of Harrison, N.Y.; a brother, Joseph, of West Orange, N.J., ; two sisters, Sadye, of Bayonne, and Ruth, of Somerville, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      