
       John Green, a composer, conductor and arranger, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        John Green, a composer, conductor and arranger, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        During his long and varied musical career, Mr. Green composed such songs as ''Body and Soul'' and ''I Cover the Waterfront,'' led a popular dance band, headed the M-G-M music department, and won four Academy Awards for his film scores.
        Mr. Green, who was born in New York and studied at Harvard University, was an arranger for Guy Lombardo and Paul Whiteman in 1928, when he composed his first hit, ''Coquette.'' His many subsequent songs included ''I'm Yours,'' ''I Wanna Be Loved'' and ''Easy Come, Easy Go,'' and among his collaborators were Edward Heyman, Johnny Mercer, Billy Rose and Ira Gershwin. He was popularly known as Johnny Green during the 1930's and 1940's, when his orchestra frequently performed in concert and on radio programs. M-G-M Staff Conductor
        After working as a pianist, arranger and musical adviser for Paramount Pictures in Astoria, Queens, Mr. Green went to Hollywood in 1942 to become the staff conductor and composer for M-G-M. He served as the studio's general director from 1949 to 1958, overseeing such productions as ''Summer Stock,'' ''Brigadoon'' and ''High Society.''
        Mr. Green later worked as a freelance conductor and arranger, and composed scores for ''Raintree County,'' ''They Shoot Horses, Don't They'' and other films. He received 14 Academy Award nominations, and won Oscars for his arrangements and musical adaptations for ''Easter Parade'' (1948), ''An American in Paris'' (1951), ''West Side Story'' (1961) and ''Oliver!'' (1968).
        Mr. Green's Broadway composing credits included ''Here Goes the Bride'' and ''Beat the Band.'' He composed several orchestral works as well as television scores. Grammy for 'West Side Story'
        Mr. Green was a member of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers since 1931 and served on its board of directors from 1981 to 1989. His other awards included a Grammy for the ''West Side Story'' soundtrack album, and he was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1972.
        Mr. Green was an associate conductor of the Los Angeles Philharmonic from 1959 to 1961, and conducted at the Hollywood Bowl for more than 20 seasons. He also was a guest conductor with such orchestras as the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra and the Boston Pops.
        Mr. Green is survived by his wife, Bonnie, of Beverly Hills, and three daughters, Babs, Kathy and Kim.
      