
       W. Paul Stillman, a banker, insurance company executive and major force in the preservation of downtown Newark, died Sunday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 91 years old and lived in Fair Haven, N.J.
        W. Paul Stillman, a banker, insurance company executive and major force in the preservation of downtown Newark, died Sunday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 91 years old and lived in Fair Haven, N.J.
        A Newark high school dropout from a family of modest means, Mr. Stillman eventually received six honorary degrees and rose to command major banking and insurance companies. He was former chairman and chief executive of First National State Bank, one of New Jersey's largest; a director of its successor, First Fidelity Bank, and honorary chairman and life director of First Fidelity Bancorporation.
        In 1938, he was named to the board of directors of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, one of the 20 largest insurance companies in the country, and in 1946 became its chairman and chief executive, posts he held simultaneously with his positions at First Fidelity until his retirement from Mutual Benefit Life in 1978. He was also a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Started as Bank Messenger
        He started his career as a bank messenger for Hanover Trust Company in New York, became a bank examiner for the United States Treasury Department and by 1923 was senior examiner for the Newark district. He was manager of the Newark Clearinghouse Association and later joined National State Bank of Newark. He led the bank through mergers with and acquisitions of six affiliates with assets of more than $10 billion. He stepped aside as chairman in 1984.
        Mr. Stillman was born in Newark on Sept. 17, 1897, and was regarded as the leader of the preservation of its downtown business district in the 1950's. When he was named chairman of Mutual Benefit Life, he decided to keep the company in Newark. That act, which led to the building of a $10 million headquarters across from Washington Park downtown, is credited with keeping other large companies, including the Prudential Insurance Company of America, in Newark. First National State Bancorporation also built a large building in Newark while he was chairman.
        ''Look, someone had to do it,'' he said in a 1960 interview. ''Here we were, right across the river from what they call the world's capital and, to be frank about it, we were dying. All I did was to call a few businessmen together and suggest that we get to work. They did the rest.''
        Robert V. Van Fossan, the current chairman of Mutual Benefit Life, said Mr. Stillman ''was beyond question the most important and most influential business person in New Jersey for more than half a century. His accomplishments, and the contributions he made to our state, are unmatched.''
        Although he was an ardent Republican and a fund raiser for Republican campaigns, Mr. Stillman was appointed to the Port Authority by Governor Robert B. Meyner, a Democrat, in 1960. He served as vice chairman from 1974 until 1977.
        The bank, the insurance company and he donated $1 million to Seton Hall University in 1973 to found the W. Paul Stillman School of Business Administration.
        He also served in many financial, civic and welfare institutions, including Union Camp Corporation, Tri-Continental Corporation, United Hospitals Medical Foundation, New York University, New Jersey Tercentenary Fund, New Jersey State Tax Policy Commission, Public Service Electric and Gas Company and the Cancer Institute of New Jersey. He was a founder of the New Jersey Heart Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Louise.
      