
       Daniel Smiley, an ecologist and one of the principal owners of Mohonk Mountain House, a national historic landmark in New Paltz, N.Y., died of cancer yesterday in Kingston (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived near Lake Mohonk.
        Daniel Smiley, an ecologist and one of the principal owners of Mohonk Mountain House, a national historic landmark in New Paltz, N.Y., died of cancer yesterday in Kingston (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived near Lake Mohonk.
        Mohonk Mountain House, a determinedly old-fashioned resort where activities revolve around nature and the environment, sits amid 7,500 wooded acres 90 miles north of New York City.
        Mr. Smiley was born near Lake Mohonk, a 2,000-foot-long glacial lake in the heart of the Shawangunk Mountains. Except for four years studying at Haverford College in Pennsylvania, he spent his life next to Mohonk Mountain House, which his Quaker uncles founded in 1869.
        Mr. Smiley and his brother, Keith, operated the resort together for five years until 1969, when Mr. Smiley turned increasingly to the study of nature. Intrigued by Nature
        In 1963, the brothers established the Mohonk Trust, to preserve their lands from development. Mr. Smiley was its first administrator.
        As a young man, he recorded just about everything that intrigued him, and just about everything in nature did. He noted the numbers of chipmunks he saw each month, the cycle of mountain laurel, the population of gypsy moths and the temperature of Lake Mohonk. He also studied various species of parasitic wasps, two of which he identified and were named for him.
        In 1938, he began recording weather observations at the Lake Mohonk Cooperative Weather Station, established by his uncle in 1896. He received two awards from the National Weather Service as an outstanding weather observer.
        His work in preservation contributed to Mohonk Mountain House's designation as a landmark. The designation, unusual for a partly commercial enterprise, includes the resort, the land and all buildings constructed before 1930.
        Mr. Smiley was a member of the Governor's Committee on Conservation Education for Youth and more than 30 scientific societies. He earned a host of awards for conservation.
        Surviving are his wife, Jane; a son, Daniel, of Columbia Falls, Mont.; two daughters, Pril, of New Paltz, and Anna Perry of Tenafly, N.J.; a brother, Keith; a sister, Anna Richardson of Palo Alto, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      