
       Ted B. Westfall, a telecommunications executive, died of congestive heart failure Thursday at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. He was 69 years old and lived in Charlottesville.
        Ted B. Westfall, a telecommunications executive, died of congestive heart failure Thursday at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. He was 69 years old and lived in Charlottesville.
        A former executive of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, Mr. Westfall at his death was chairman and chief executive of the Comdial Corporation, a Charlottesville telecommunications company, which he joined in 1981.
        From 1960 to 1974 he was associated with International Telephone and Telegraph as a director and executive vice president. For years he headed its telecommunications operations, including manufacturing and production and its telephone operating companies, which are largely in the Caribbean and Central and South America. Head of Special Projects
        When he retired from I.T.T. he agreed to continue as director of the special projects he had begun for the telecommunications and international communications operations. He did so until he joined Comdial. Before that he was a director and executive vice president of the Grace Line shipping concern.
        Mr. Westfall, who was born in Tryon, Okla., was a graduate of the University of Oklahoma in 1940 and received a law degree from the George Washington University Law School in 1949. From 1940 to 1944, he was on the accounting staff of Congress's General Accounting Office in Washington, where he became director of audits.
        He leaves his wife, the former Mary Reedy; five children, Jane Brown of Albuquerque, N.M., Steven of Tiverton, R.I., Linda Glenn of Santa Cruz, Calif., Ted B. Jr., of Honolulu, Nancy Westfall of Cinnaminson, N.J., and two grandhildren. Also surviving are two brothers, Morgan and Russell of Perkins, Okla.; two sisters, Evalee LaFollette and Felsa Hastings, also of Perkins, and a half sister, Leta Sue Rusco of Stillwater, Okla.
      