
       Sir John Richard Hicks, a winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize for Economic Science in 1972, died on Saturday at his home in Blockley, west of London, his family said. He was 85 years old.
        Sir John Richard Hicks, a winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize for Economic Science in 1972, died on Saturday at his home in Blockley, west of London, his family said. He was 85 years old.
        Sir John, of Oxford, shared the Nobel award with Professor Kenneth J. Arrow of Harvard. The Swedish Academy of Science praised ''their pioneering contributions to general economic equilibrium theory and welfare theory'' that help to assess business risk and government policies. The prize was established by the Central Bank of Sweden in 1968.
        The equilibrium theory maintains that active forces cancel each other and produce a state of balance. Sir John laid the theoretical groundwork for renewal of the theory with his major work, ''Value and Capital,'' in 1939.
        The theory, according to Prof. Bertil Ohlin, a leading Swedish economist, is the basis for most economic theories now used in investment, foreign trade, price structure and general economy. He said the theories have been important in aiding government and industry to create improved economies, higher living standards and increased employment.
        The academy also praised Sir John, who was knighted in 1964, for increasing understanding of monetary and business-cycle theory. He was for many years a lecturer at the London School of Economics, the University of Manchester and Oxford.
        Sir John was a stern critic of monetarism, which advocates control of money as the best way to stabilize the economy, declaring that ''what is wrong with monetarism is that it tries to put all kinds of inflation into the same box.'' Parallel to Keynes
        Sir John's early work paralled that of John Maynard Keynes. In a 1975 book, ''The Crisis in Keynesian Economics,'' he noted that, although Keynes died in 1946, he put his mark firmly on the third quarter of this century and was partly responsible for a long boom.
        Keynesian doctrines call for increased government spending, tax cutting, a willingness to incur budget deficits and the use of monetary expansion to cure slumps and unemployment.
        Sir John was born in Warwick on April 8, 1904, and was educated at Clifton College and Balliol College at Oxford.
        In 1935, Professor Hicks was married to another leading economist, Ursula Kathleen Webb, who eventually became Lady Ursula Hicks. They collaborated on many books on economic theory. They had no children and she died in 1985.
        Sir John's books included ''Theory of Wages'' (1932), ''Essays in World Economics'' (1959), ''Capital and Growth'' (1965), ''Economic Perspectives'' (1977) and ''Causality in Economics'' (1979).
        His later posts included official fellow of Nuffield College, Oxford, and then Drummond Professor of Political Economy at Oxford.
      