
       Dr. Leon Herbert Schmidt, a medical researcher who worked on cures for malaria and tuberculosis and who was a specialist in the study of primates, died of heart failure on May 14 at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 79 years old.
        Dr. Leon Herbert Schmidt, a medical researcher who worked on cures for malaria and tuberculosis and who was a specialist in the study of primates, died of heart failure on May 14 at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 79 years old.
        Dr. Schmidt, a pharmacologist, was research director of the Christ Hospital Institute of Medical Research in Cincinnati from 1936 to 1963, a period in which he also taught at the University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine.
        In World War II he and other researchers developed drugs to combat malaria, which earned him the Joseph Augustin LePrince Medal of the American Society of Tropical Medicine.
        After the war he and other researchers sought cures for tuberculosis, for which he received the Trudeau Medal of the National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Association. Experiments With Monkeys
        Dr. Schmidt's research, particularly in malaria, involved experiments with monkeys, leading him to develop animal models for studying human diseases. In 1963 he was the founding director of the National Center for Primate Biology at the University of California at Davis; in the next six years he also taught pharmacology at the university's San Francisco Medical Center and its veterinary school.
        In 1969 Dr. Schmidt became associate diretor for chemotherapy at the Southern Research Institute in Birmingham, a post from which he retired in 1976. At his death he was a professor of pharmacology at the University of Alabama Medical School.
        He was born in Huron, Ohio, and was a graduate of DePauw University. He received his doctorate in biochemistry from the University of Cincinnati.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ida Genther; a daughter, Nancy, of Bloomington, Ind., and a son, Richard Schmidt, of San Luis Obispo, Calif.
      