
       Louis R. Bruce Jr., a former Federal Commissioner of Indian Affairs and an advocate of Indians' rights, died of cancer and heart disease Saturday at Crystal City Nursing Center in Arlington, Va. He was 83 years old and lived in Arlington.
        Louis R. Bruce Jr., a former Federal Commissioner of Indian Affairs and an advocate of Indians' rights, died of cancer and heart disease Saturday at Crystal City Nursing Center in Arlington, Va. He was 83 years old and lived in Arlington.
        Mr. Bruce, a Mohawk from New York and the second Indian to hold the post of commissioner in nearly a century, served from 1969 to 1973. He was dismissed in the wake of a six-day takeover of the Bureau of Indian Affairs building in November 1973 by about 500 Indians protesting injustices.
        The Bureau of Indian Affairs is the legal guardian of the property of an estimated 949,075 Indians who live on or adjacent to Indian lands.
        Mr. Bruce's service in the Nixon Administration coincided with a series of similar, violent confrontations between Indians and whites in many parts of the country over longstanding disputes. The disruptions took place despite Mr. Bruce's recruitment of Indians to head bureau activities and make policy and a Goverment effort to restructure the bureau. Syracuse Graduate
        After his dismissal Mr. Bruce founded Native American Consultants Inc., a firm that specializes in the promotion of Indian involvement in national affairs and the provision of services to Indian organizations.
        Leonard Rooks Bruce Jr. was born on the Onondaga Indian Reservation and grew up on the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation, both in upstate New York. His father, Dr. Louis Bruce, a Mohawk, was a dentist and a Methodist minister; his mother was an Oglala Sioux.
        Mr. Bruce graduated in 1929 from Cazenovia Seminary, where he met Anna Jennings Wikoff. They attended Syracuse University, graduating in 1930, and were married that year. After college, he was at various times New York State director for Indian projects for the National Youth Administration; a director of youth activities for the Dairymen's League Cooperative Association Inc., of New York; public relations, promotion, and director of Mid-Eastern Cooperatives; community relations consultant with the New York State Housing Division, and a vice president of the Compton Advertising Agency.
        He is survived by his wife; three children, Katherine Louise Huxtable and Donald Kenneth Bruce, both of Richfield Springs, N.Y., Charles Wikoff Bruce of Las Cruces, N.M.; a sister, Noresta Cable of Ilion, N.Y., and eight grandhildren.
      