
       Dr. Morris A. Copeland, an economist who specialized in the flow of money and the distribution of income in the United States, died of pneumonia May 4 in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 93 years old.
        Dr. Morris A. Copeland, an economist who specialized in the flow of money and the distribution of income in the United States, died of pneumonia May 4 in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 93 years old.
        Dr. Copeland, who taught economics at Cornell and other institutions and who served with several government and private agencies, was the author of a number of studies on economic theory.
        His principal work in the field, ''A Study of Moneyflows in the United States,'' published in 1951, traced where income came from and where it went among the various sectors of the national economy in a six-year period that included recovery from the Depression and the onset of World War II.
        He was also the author of ''Fact and Theory in Economics'' (1958), Trends in Government Financing'' (1961), ''Our Free Enterprise Economy'' (1964), ''Toward Full Employment'' (1966) and ''Essays in Socioeconomic Evolution'' (1980).
        Dr. Copeland, who was born in Rochester, was a graduate of Amherst College and held a doctoral degree from the University of Chicago. He began teaching economics at Cornell in 1921 and became a full professor in 1928.
        He served with the Brookings Graduate School of Economics, the National Bureau of Economic Research and the Federal Reserve Board before joining the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1930.
        From 1933 to 1939, Dr. Copeland was executive secretary of the Central Statistical Board in Washington, a quasi-governmental agency, after which he became director of research for the Bureau of the Budget. In World War II he was chief of the munitions branch of the War Production Board.
        After the war he rejoined the National Bureau of Economic Research and resumed teaching at Cornell. After his retirement in 1965 at the age of 70, he taught at the University of Missouri and later at the State University of New York at Albany.
        Dr. Copeland is survived by his wife, the former Mary Phelps Enders; a daughter, Helen Gattidge of Camrose, Alberta, Canada; a son, Robert, of Washington; four grandchildren, and a great grandson.
      