
       Prof. Andreas Hillgruber, a prominent West German historian who was involved in a controversy bearing on the ''final solution,'' died May 8 in a hospital in Cologne after a long illness, his widow, Karin, confirmed when reached by telephone at their home yesterday. His death, at the age of 64, had been reported in the West
        Prof. Andreas Hillgruber, a prominent West German historian who was involved in a controversy bearing on the ''final solution,'' died May 8 in a hospital in Cologne after a long illness, his widow, Karin, confirmed when reached by telephone at their home yesterday. His death, at the age of 64, had been reported in the West German press.
        Professor Hillgruber was an authority on Hitler's Third Reich and had joined the faculty of the University of Cologne in 1972.
        Prof. Francis L. Loewenheim, a historian at Rice University in Houston, said, in a statement issued there: ''Andreas Hillgruber was probably the leading West German historian of his generation - a scholar of indefatigable energy and fierce independence, a scholar of weighty judgment even if one did not always agree with him.''
        He was the author of a 1986 book that helped instigate a debate that sharply split German scholars and journalists for a time. The Eastern Front
        The short work was entitled ''Two Kinds of Destruction: The Shattering of the German Reich and the End of European Jewry.'' It suggested a connection between the collapse of the German Army's eastern front in World War II and the genocide carried out against the European Jews.
        In the book, Professor Hillgruber gave long accounts of mass rape and ''barbarian'' behavior by Soviet troops advancing from the east toward Berlin. He also contended that Austria, more than Germany, had fostered the strong anti-Semitism that led to the death camps, and that it was Hitler's own personal hatred for the Jews that led to the ''final solution,'' as the Nazis called the mass killing. By juxtaposing the collapse of the eastern front and the genocide, Professor Hillgruber implicitly invited moral comparison of the two.
        Not long afterward, Jurgen Habermas, a noted West German sociologist, writing in the liberal weekly Die Zeit, challenged the book and criticized what he called ''apologetic tendencies in the writing of modern German history.'' He contended that Mr. Hillgruber and other West German scholars were engaged in a ''new revisionism'' meant to imbue their country with ''a NATO philosophy with a German national coloring.''
        The ''historians' dispute,'' as it became known, also involved some scholars' efforts to compare the genocide to mass murders in other parts of the world, like Stalin's purges or the killings in Cambodia under Pol Pot. President Ended Dispute
        Eventually, the President of West Germany, Richard von Weizsacker felt constrained to declare in October before a congress of West German historians: ''Auschwitz remains unique. It was perpetrated by Germans in the name of Germany. This truth is immutable and will not be forgotten.''
        With those sentences he declared an end to the dispute, and Professor Hillgruber said he completely agreed. He contended that he had never tried to ''relativize'' the past, but only to gain understanding of its times and conditions.
        Defending him after his death, Herbert Kremp, the West German writer and journalist, emphasized, in an article in the West German newspaper Die Welt, that in a 1980 book Professor Hillgruber had stressed his own view that the Nazi crimes had been ''singular'' and consequently not comparable to others.
        The son of a secondary school teacher, Andreas Hillgruber was born Jan. 18, 1925, in a town that was then in East Prussia and is now in Poland. The West German press reported earlier this month that the father was forced by the Nazis, for political reasons, to give up teaching and that the son became a prisoner of war in World War II.
        Afterward, Andreas Hillgruber earned a doctorate at the University of Gottingen in West Germany. His scholarly career included teaching at the universities of Marburg and Freiburg, both in West Germany. He was the author of more than a dozen books, and was praised by Gordon A. Craig, the noted American historian of Germany, for his ''masterful delineation of Hitler's grand strategical plan.''
        Professor Hillgruber is survived by his wife, the former Karin Zierau; a daughter, Gabriele; and two sons, Michael and Christian.
      