
       Sergio Leone, the Italian director who revived western films in the 1960's and added distinction and style to a genre known as spaghetti westerns, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Rome. He was 67 years old.
        Sergio Leone, the Italian director who revived western films in the 1960's and added distinction and style to a genre known as spaghetti westerns, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Rome. He was 67 years old.
        Mr. Leone, who co-wrote many of his films, gained fame and catapulted Clint Eastwood to international stardom by directing and co-writing three violence-packed hits, ''A Fistful of Dollars,'' ''For a Few Dollars More'' and ''The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.'' The protagonists were cool, laconic, beleagured loners dueling in a spare sun-blanched terrain.
        The director, who hailed John Ford as his mentor, said, ''All the killings in my films are exaggerated because I wanted to make a tongue-in-cheek satire on run-of-the-mill westerns.'' Another guideline was that women were introduced only if they advanced the plots. Otherwise, he said, a love situation ''arrests the rhythm of a story.'' 'Strength and Simplicity'
        ''The cowboy picture has got lost in psychology,'' he told an interviewer. ''The West was made by violent uncomplicated men, and it is this strength and simplicity that I try to recapture in my pictures.''
        Commenting on criticism that his movies were violent and sadistic, he insisted that muting violence was hypocritical. ''In our society,'' he said, ''man is forced to undergo violence of every kind without being able to react. In the old West, a man with a pistol could make his own justice. Now he must go to a magistrate.''
        Mr. Eastwood praised the film maker for avoiding cliches and for using absurdities to arouse shock. ''You want blood?'' Mr. Eastwood said. ''Here it is by the bucketful. You want sand? Here it is by the ton.''
        Mr. Leone's work aroused passionate reactions. In a review of ''A Fistful of Dollars'' in 1967, Bosley Crowther, the film critic of The New York Times, assailed the film as ''egregiously synthetic but engrossingly morbid.''
        In 1972, Vincent Canby of The Times concluded that Mr. Leone's work ''is a special taste, and one that I almost always enjoy even when the movies are less than great.'' ''They always have the strange look and displaced sound of an unmistakably Italian director's dream of what Hollywood movies should be like, but aren't,'' he wrote.
        In the 1980 book ''Cinema: A Critical Dictionary,'' Richard Corliss hailed ''the Leone universe'' as ''a blend of seamless contradictions: labyrinthine plots and elemental themes, nihilistic heroes with romantic obsessions, microscopic close-ups and macrocosmic vistas, circular camera work and triangular shoot-outs, a sense of Americana and a European sensibility, playful parody and profound homage.'' 'Fantastic Sense of Composition'
        Actors consistently lauded Mr. Leone for all-around professionalism and diligence in historical accuracy. Eli Wallach said Mr. Leone ''has a fantastic sense of composition and color.'' ''He uses textures like a great painter,'' he added. Mr. Leone's English was minimal, but he more than made up for that with a masterful command of mime.
        Mr. Leone's father, Vincenzo, was a noted silent-film director in Rome. The son entered the profession when he was 18 and assisted in making more than 50 movies for Italian directors and American directors filming in Italy, including William Wyler, Raoul Walsh and Fred Zinnemann.
        He was a second-unit director on many spear-and-sandal epics and co-wrote movies including ''Sign of the Gladiator'' and ''The Last Days of Pompeii'' and directed ''The Colossus of Rhodes'' in 1961. Later films he directed included ''Once Upon a Time in the West'' (1968) and ''Duck, You Sucker'' (1972).
        A major project was a 1984 homage to American gangster films, ''Once Upon a Time in America,'' about the rise and fall of Jewish childhood friends on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, which starred Robert De Niro, James Woods, Elizabeth McGovern and Tuesday Weld. The three-hour 46-minute film won praise at the Cannes Film Festival and throughout France and Italy, but it was cut by 91 minutes for its United States release against Mr. Leone's strong objections and became incomprehensible. ''The film was not cut,'' he declared, ''it was barbarously massacred.''
        Survivors of Mr. Leone, who had homes in Italy and France, include his wife, Carla, and three daughters, Raffaela, Francesca and Andrea.
      