
       Phineas Newborn Jr., a leading jazz pianist, died Friday at his home in Memphis. He was 57 years old.
        Phineas Newborn Jr., a leading jazz pianist, died Friday at his home in Memphis. He was 57 years old.
        The cause of his death was not disclosed. Irvin Salky, Mr. Newborn's agent and friend, said X-rays six weeks ago showed a growth on one lung.
        Mr. Newborn was not a celebrity, but he was highly regarded by jazz aficionados, particularly in the 1950's and 60's. Writing in The New York Times, Robert Palmer hailed Mr. Newborn as ''one of the most brilliant pianists in jazz,'' and said of a 1978 performance, ''he is one of those musicians who speak most eloquently through their music, and at this encounter he spoke eloquently indeed, rippling through absolutely stunning versions of standards and jazz originals.'' Playing Various Instruments
        Mr. Newborn was born in 1931 in Whiteville, Tenn., and was already a gifted instrumentalist in his early teen-age years. His father, Phineas Newborn Sr., led a big band at the Flamingo Club on Beale Street in Memphis. As a teen-ager, the son played saxophone, trumpet and vibraphone as well as piano.
        He performed with Lionel Hampton from 1950 to 1952, formed a duo with Charles Mingus in 1958 and toured Europe in 1958 and 1959.
        Mr. Newborn spent several years in New York City, recording prolifically and working often at Birdland and Basin Street. He then spent several years in Los Angeles before returning to Memphis. He was ill for a decade, but recovered and played as buoyantly and venturesomely as ever. Musical Influences
        Mr. Newborn formed his style at a young age, falling under the spell of the old masters, primarily Art Tatum, before he heard the newer sounds of modern jazz pianists like Bud Powell.
        As a result, he became an orchestral two-handed piano player, and although he easily absorbed the harmonic and rhythmic innovations of the modernists, he was considered an anomaly compared with other jazz pianists his age, most of whom followed Powell's lead and concentrated on right-hand single-note lines, with the left hand providing choral punctuations.
        Mr. Newborn worked with melodies rather than with lines of single notes. He also differed from contemporaries because of his early experience of playing for rhythm-and-blues singers.
        He is survived by his mother, Rose, of Memphis; two daughters, Shelly and Pamela, both of New York City; a son, Phineas 3d, of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      