
       The Rev. Philip A. Carey, who taught workers how to be active in union work and clean up locals rife with corruption, died of a heart attack Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in the Jesuit community of St. Francis Xavier in Chelsea.
        The Rev. Philip A. Carey, who taught workers how to be active in union work and clean up locals rife with corruption, died of a heart attack Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in the Jesuit community of St. Francis Xavier in Chelsea.
        The Rev. Richard Hartnett, also a member of the community, said Father Carey had been admitted to the hospital for tests after a series of small strokes.
        Father Carey was director of the Xavier Institute of Industrial Relations on West 16th Street from 1940 until it closed last year. Graduates of the institute, run in part with small donations from sandhogs and longshoremen, were credited with purging their unions of corruption and seeing that elections were honestly run.
        A gentle, white-haired man, Father Carey was also a veteran labor mediator who helped to avert strikes or, failing that, to settle them. Several Mayors called upon him to mediate stormy contract disputes between New York City and its uniformed services. Worked With Trades
        Father Carey was a professor of labor relations at Fordham University from 1946 to 1974. He belonged to the American Arbitration Association, served on the Federal Mediation Board and, over the years, worked with labor in dozens of trades and industries.
        The classes at Xavier Institute covered practical matters like health and welfare and pension planning, labor laws, psychology of labor relations, parliamentary practice, grievances, contract negotiations and the job of a union official.
        A former assistant to Father Carey at the institute, the Rev. John M. Corridan, was the mob-fighting ''waterfront priest'' portrayed by Karl Malden in the film ''On the Waterfront.''
        Concerning his own role as a labor priest, Father Carey once said: ''The life of a Jesuit is to be where one is needed. I like to be with workers who think with their hands. They are my people.'' Ordained in 1938
        Father Carey was often called the ''sandhog priest.'' That nickname marked an affinity dating to his origins in the Bronx, where his father, John, spent long hours for little money digging subway tunnels and driving a trolley. A trolley strike in 1916 left a lasting impression on the boy when the union was broken and his father started wearing his union button inside his hat.
        Father Carey graduated from St. Regis High School in Manhattan, entered the Society of Jesus and, after 13 years of studies, was ordained in 1938. Two years later, he was appointed to head the Xavier Institute.
        Father Carey is survived by a brother, John, of the Bronx.
        A funeral Mass will be offered at 8 P.M. Wednesday at St. Francis Xavier Church, 30 West 16th Street.
      