
       Frank O'Rourke, a prolific, versatile and popular writer of novels, westerns and mysteries and earlier of short stories and sports fiction, died after a long bout with asthma on April 27 at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 72 years old.
        Frank O'Rourke, a prolific, versatile and popular writer of novels, westerns and mysteries and earlier of short stories and sports fiction, died after a long bout with asthma on April 27 at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. O'Rourke was considered a master of the western caper, according to ''Contempory Authors,'' and wrote more than 60 novels. His first, ''E Company,'' based on his life in the wartime Army, was published in 1945.
        He wrote so quickly, sometimes three books a year, that on the advice of agents he used such pseudonyms as Patrick O'Malley, Frank O'Malley and Kevin Connor. Some of his works were made into movies and television plays, including ''The Bravados,'' starring Gregory Peck in 1958, and ''A Mule for the Marquesa'' (retitled ''The Professionals''), starring Burt Lancaster in 1966.
        Major novels included ''The Far Mountains'' (1959), about the American Southwest in the early 19th century, which Lewis Nordyke hailed in The New York Times as ''top quality,'' and ''The Bright Morning'' (1963), a tale of youths maturing in a Midwest town in the 1930's.
        ''The Man Who Found His Way,'' a 1957 novella about witchcraft in the Southwest, prompted Hoffman Birney to conclude in The Times that it ''ranks with the best, the very best, we have read in many years.''
        Other popular works included ''Concannon'' (1952), ''Gun Hand'' (1953), ''The Big Fifty'' (1955), ''The Bride Stealer'' (1960) and ''Window in the Dark'' (1960). Admirers praised him for humanizing history while detractors criticized lapses into stereotypes.
        The writer was an intensely independent man who rejected personal publicity, saying in a 1985 telephone interview: ''I've always felt that it was the writer's job to write the books and the publisher's to sell them. I believe in personal privacy.''
        He was born in Denver, grew up in the village of Hoskins, Neb., attended Kemper Military School in Boonville, Mo., and was a semiprofessional baseball player, a lumberjack and a construction worker.
        Survivors include his wife, Edith Carlson, of Tucson and Manhattan, who used her maiden name as an artist and literary agent.
      