
       Larry Fleisher, the former head of the National Basketball Players Association, died yesterday after playing squash at the New York Athletic Club.
        Larry Fleisher, the former head of the National Basketball Players Association, died yesterday after playing squash at the New York Athletic Club.
        Mr. Fleisher, who was 58 years old and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y., apparently suffered a heart attack after the game. He collapsed in the shower room at the club on Central Park South and was taken to Roosevelt Hospital a few blocks away, where he was pronounced dead.
        Mr. Fleisher stepped down as the head of the National Basketball Association players' union last year after reaching agreement on what is widely regarded as the strongest contract ever negotiated by a sports union.
        After retiring in October, Mr. Fleisher, who worked as a player agent while serving as the union's general counsel, became a corporate vice president in charge of basketball operations for the International Management Group, the Cleveland-based sports agency.
        Mr. Fleisher, a lawyer who organized the union in the late 1950's, was known for his tough-minded negotiations, for his financial acumen and for the wide circle of warm friendships he made on both sides of the labor issue. Praise From a Senator
        One of his friends, Bill Bradley, the former Knick who now represents New Jersey in the United States Senate, hailed Mr. Fleisher yesterday as ''one of the most effective labor leaders of the last three decades.''
        David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A., praised Mr. Fleisher as a ''remarkable man and a personal friend,'' and ''an effective union leader who always worked for the good of the sport of basketball.''
        To Mr. Bradley, who joined the N.B.A. in 1967, the degree of Mr. Fleisher's effectiveness is a matter of simple arithmetic. ''When I came into the league the average salary was $9,400,'' he said.
        Today, under the six-year agreement Mr. Fleisher helped negotiate last year, the average salary is about $600,000 and is expected to rise to close to $1 million by 1994. Players Become Partners
        Under the 1988 agreement, which built on a contract negotiated in 1983, the players and the owners are virtual partners, with the players guaranteed 53 percent of league revenues in either salary or benefits.
        Mr. Fleisher, who was born in the Bronx and was graduated from New York University, received his law degree from Harvard University.
        Before organizing the union, which won formal recognition after threatening a strike at the 1964 All-Star Game, he worked with an accounting firm, served as an executive vice president of Restaurant Associates and practiced law.
        Jack Twyman, who served as the union's first president, said Mr. Fleisher conceived the idea of the union and presented it to the players.
        Mr. Fleisher is survived by his wife, Vasso; four children, Mark, Eric, David and Nancy, and two grandchildren.
      