
       Earl (Red) Blaik, one of college football's foremost coaches, died yesterday at a nursing home in Colorado Springs, two days after breaking a hip in a fall. He was 92 years old.
        Earl (Red) Blaik, one of college football's foremost coaches, died yesterday at a nursing home in Colorado Springs, two days after breaking a hip in a fall. He was 92 years old.
        Mr. Blaik was the head football coach at the United States Military Academy, his alma mater, for 18 seasons, 1941 to 1958, and directed a series of superb teams. His teams were named national champions in 1944 and 1945.
        Three of his players - Doc Blanchard, Glenn Davis and Pete Dawkins - won the Heisman Trophy as the nation's outstanding collegiate player. Many of his players were all-America choices.
        Although a civilian coach and athletic director in his years at West Point, he was always addressed as Colonel, his retirement rank as a reserve officer. A Sad Experience in 1951
        His darkest time came in 1951, when 5l football players were among 90 cadets dismissed from the Academy for violations of the honor code. One was his son, Robert, the starting quarterback. Mr. Blaik chose to stay on at West Point and rebuild the program. That he did, and by 1954 the Army team again was one of the best.
        Mr. Blaik's record at Army was 121 victories, 33 defeats and 10 ties with five unbeaten seasons. He had only one losing season, 1951.
        Mr. Blaik graduated from Miami University in his native Ohio and entered the academy during World War I. He was an all-America end, receiving a degree in 1920, and was named the best athlete in his class. From Real Estate to Coaching
        He resigned from the Army in 1922 and joined his father in a real-estate business in Dayton. He turned to coaching as an unpaid assistant of George Little, who had been his Miami coach, at Wisconsin in 1925. Mr. Blaik went to Army as an assistant coach in 1927 and became head coach at Dartmouth in 1934. His teams there were unbeaten through 21 games, the first of several such streaks for him.
        West Point called in 1941 after a series of losing seasons under officer coaches, and he took command.
        Mr. Blaik brought a cerebral approach to football and was an inventive organizer. He kept his distance from the players and chose wisely in naming assistants. Many of them, including Tom Cahill, Paul Dietzel, Sid Gillman, Herman Hickman, Vince Lombardi, Murray Warmath and Bill Yeoman, became successful head coaches.
        He could be inspiring. Bob Anderson, a fine running back, told of the time Mr. Blaik called him out of the barracks two nights before the Navy game and took him for a walk. Mr. Blaik told young Anderson he would be the key player against Navy. ''I was ready to run through a wall,'' said Mr. Anderson, who turned out to be the hero in a victory.
        Mr. Blaik's teams were in many famous games. In 1935, a Dartmouth team beat Yale for the first time; another of his Dartmouth teams upset Cornell in the famous ''fifth-down game'' in 1940. There was the 0-0 tie Army played with Notre Dame in 1946, and the end of a 32-game unbeaten streak in a defeat by Columbia in 1947.
        Mr. Cahill, who was Army's coach from 1966 to 1973, said of Mr. Blaik yesterday: ''His impact on the game was outstanding. No one had greater respect. He was caring and kind to everyone and he felt very strongly about West Point and the Army.''
        Mr. Blaik is survived by two sons, Robert and William. He will be buried at West Point.
      