
       Guy Williams, who played the swashbuckling black-masked hero Zorro on television in the late 1950's, was found dead Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, at his apartment in Buenos Aires, the Buenos Aires police said yesterday. He was 65 years old.
        Guy Williams, who played the swashbuckling black-masked hero Zorro on television in the late 1950's, was found dead Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, at his apartment in Buenos Aires, the Buenos Aires police said yesterday. He was 65 years old.
        The police said Mr. Williams apparently died about a week ago. They were called by neighbors.
        Mr. Williams, whose name originally was Armand Catalano, was born and grew up in New York City. He worked at a soda fountain, and was a garment worker and model before he was given a screen test for the ''Zorro'' series by the Walt Disney Studios in 1957.
        At 6 feet 3 inches and 185 pounds, with sideburns and a mustache, Mr. Williams was made to order for the role of Diego de la Vega, the young aristocrat in early 19th-century Mexico who battled the Spanish to protect his downtrodden countrymen. Preparation for the Role
        He had another asset for the role: his father was an avid fencer who interested him in the sport. When it came time to take over the role that was played first by Douglas Fairbanks in the 1920 film ''The Mark of Zorro'' and then by Tyrone Power in the 1940 version, Mr. Williams took a refresher course with the Belgian fencing master Fred Cavens, who had taught both Fairbanks and Power. Mr. Williams also took guitar and riding lessons.
        In 1961, he was in the film ''The Sign of Zorro.'' His other films included ''Seven Angry Men'' and ''Sincerely Yours'' (1955) and ''Captain Sinbad'' (1963). In 'Lost in Space'
        Later in his career, Mr. Williams starred in the television series ''Lost in Space,'' in which he played the leader of a family marooned in space.
        Mr. Williams was a frequent visitor to Buenos Aires, where he was said to have lived alone for several months. In the 1950's, he was married and had a son and daughter. There was no immediate word on his survivors.
      