
       Grace Bechtold, a vice president and executive editor of Bantam Books, died of cancer Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Grace Bechtold, a vice president and executive editor of Bantam Books, died of cancer Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Bechtold was an editor at Bantam for almost 40 years. In his book ''Two-Bit Culture: The Paperbacking of America,'' Kenneth C. Davis described her as ''the doyenne of women paperback editors.'' Not only was she a woman in a field long dominated by males, she was also one of the first mass market editors to perceive the broader potential of religious and inspirational books, acquiring for Bantam the paperback rights to books by Hal Lindsey, Og Mandino and a number of others.
        She also bought the reprint rights to ''Life After Death'' by Dr. Raymond A. Moody Jr., a book of case studies of near-death experiences that has sold more than a million copies in paperback. The First of the Instants
        In addition to acquiring romance and other category books, Miss Bechtold also acquired books ranging from works by Carson McCullers to ''Dr. Atkins' Diet Revolution.'' She edited ''The Report of the Warren Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy,'' published in September 1964, the first of many Bantam ''instant'' paperback books.
        ''Grace's editorial vision was matched by a tireless devotion to nurturing young editorial talent,'' said Alberto Vitale, the president of the Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group. ''Many who benefited from her tutelage as her assistants or associates have blossomed into highly regarded editors and executives.''
        Born in Belleville, Ill., Miss Bechtold worked in advertising in Chicago before relocating to New York in the mid-1940's. For a time she was an editor with the Doubleday book clubs, before joining Bantam just four years after its founding. There are no survivors.  Funeral services are to be held today at 4 P.M. at the First Presbyterian Church, on Fifth Avenue at 12th Street.
      