
       Hazel Corbin, retired general director of the Maternity Center Association in New York City and a pioneer in maternal and infant health care, died of cardiac failure Wednesday at her home in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. She was 93 years old.
        Hazel Corbin, retired general director of the Maternity Center Association in New York City and a pioneer in maternal and infant health care, died of cardiac failure Wednesday at her home in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. She was 93 years old.
        Throughout her career, Miss Corbin crusaded for improved maternal and infant care through demonstration projects, research and education of professionals and childbearing families.
        As early as the 1930's, she encouraged fathers to take an active part in the care of expectant mothers, setting up special classes for them at Maternity Center clinics.
        Miss Corbin was a major force in establishing the Interntional Childbirth Education Association. She was also a strong proponent of nurse-midwifery, encouraging the development of university-based certification programs at Columbia University, the Johns Hopkins University, Yale University and the State University of New York-Downstate Medical Center. Studied at Brooklyn College
        A native of Nova Scotia, Miss Corbin came to New York during World War I to study nursing at Brooklyn College, hoping to serve as an Army nurse. Instead, she became the first field nurse in the first Maternity Center, established by the Women's City Club in 1917 to reduce maternal and infant mortality in designated parts of the city.
        When the Maternity Center Association was formally organized the next year, she continued to serve in the field and to train other nurses. In 1923 she became general director, a post she held until her retirement in 1965.
        He influence went well beyond the city and the field of maternal and infant care. In 1936 she was an organizer of the Public Health Association of New York City. During World War II she was in charge of recruiting nurses for the New York chapter of the American Red Cross.
        She also campaigned over the decades to raise state standards for maternal and infant care, and she was a strong advocate of midwifery by trained nurses and of natural childbirth. Martha May Eliot Award
        ''When any woman has her baby naturally,'' she explained, ''she cooperates with the forces at work within her body and does the job by her own efforts, with or without assistance to help her along.''
        In 1966 Miss Corbin received the Martha May Eliot Award of the American Public Health Association for ''nearly 50 years as a major influence in demonstrating improved childbirth and child-care practices to physicians, nurses and mothers.'' Two years later she was awarded the highest honor of the Maternity Center Association, its Medal for Distinguished Service.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      