
       Ana Aslan, a controversial gerontologist whose clinic in Rumania attracted thousands of people from around the world in search of renewed youth, died May 20 in Bucharest, according to reports from that city and Paris. She was in her early 90's.
        Ana Aslan, a controversial gerontologist whose clinic in Rumania attracted thousands of people from around the world in search of renewed youth, died May 20 in Bucharest, according to reports from that city and Paris. She was in her early 90's.
        Agence France-Presse reported that her death went unnoticed in Rumania for nearly a week until publication on Thursday of a small item in the obituary column of a Bucharest newspaper. She was buried last Sunday in a civil ceremony, although she had wanted a religious ceremony, Agence France-Presse said.
        Dr. Aslan developed a drug named Gerovital H3 that she and a loyal group of followers promoted as an elixir of youth. Detractors asserted that it was simply a solution of procaine, which under the brand name Novocain is widely used by dentists to block pain and is administered to older people as an anti-depressant.
        Shortly after World War II, Dr. Aslan, who specialized in treating arthritis, began working with a noted Rumanian hormone specialist, Constantin I. Parhon. In 1954, the Government-sponsored Parhon Institute of Geriatrics was established in Bucharest, and Dr. Aslan soon became its dominant figure. A Magnet for Wealthy People
        The institute developed into a magnet for wealthy and prominent people from Europe and other continents, all searching for a way to stave off the ravages of age. Dr. Aslan traveled abroad to lecture and to promote Gerovital and Aslavital, another youth treatment she developed.
        Among the famous people who took her treatments - or were widely reported to have done so - were Gen. Charles de Gaulle, Nikita S. Khrushchev, Indira Gandhi, Marshal Tito and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany, as well as the actresses Lillian Gish and Marlene Dietrich.
        The great majority of scientists outside Rumania dismissed Gerovital as another false fountain of youth. The medical establishment in Britain and the United States, including the National Institutes of Health and the American Medical Association, found it had no merit, and the Food and Drug Administration refused to sanction it. Nevertheless, a few scientists, including the noted endocrinologist Albert C. Simard of the Pasteur Institute in Paris, hailed Gerovital as a wonder drug.
        Dr. Aslan herself refused to claim credit for rejuvenating specific celebrities, but neither did she deny extravagant claims by her supporters. A woman who in her 60's and 70's appeared 30 years younger, she was variously reported as having been born between 1896 and 1898.
      