
       Elaine Black Yoneda, a radical labor activist during the Depression and the 1934 San Francisco general strike, died of a heart attack here on Thursday. She was 81 years old.
        Elaine Black Yoneda, a radical labor activist during the Depression and the 1934 San Francisco general strike, died of a heart attack here on Thursday. She was 81 years old.
        Mrs. Yoneda, known in labor circles as ''the Red Angel'' and as ''Tiger Woman'' in the Hearst newspapers because of her militancy, was the only woman on the steering committee of the 1934 San Francisco general strike, which was a response to the killing of two longshoremen participating in a West Coast walkout.
        Until she retired in 1973, Mrs. Yoneda was a clerical worker for the pension fund of the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union-Pacific Maritime Association. She was a member of Local 29 of the Office and Professional Employees International Union until this year and was president of the women's auxiliary of Local 16 of the longshoremen's union. Became a Communist
        She was born in New York City on Sept. 4, 1906. She moved to Los Angeles in 1931 and there joined the Communist Party. She was active with International Labor Defense, a group that worked for the legal rights of strikers and others active in the labor movement.
        She met a young Japanese-American and fellow Communist named Karl Yoneda when she went to bail him out of jail, where he was being held for strike activities. They were married in 1933.
        Her husband said her death came on the 55th anniversary of their wedding as they were preparing to celebrate.
        Mr. Yoneda said they had remained members of the party: ''We believe in minority parties. If you let the big shots run the country, what will happen to us?'' Husband Interned in War
        In 1942, after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, President Roosevelt signed an order for the internment of people of Japanese ancestry. Mr. Yoneda was interned at the camp at Manzanar, Calif.
        Mr. Yoneda said his wife and son remained with him until he volunteered to perform intelligence work for the United States military against the Japanese Army in Burma. Mrs. Yoneda was allowed to move with her son to San Francisco, but for the next two years she had to report monthly to military authorities on the child's whereabouts, her husband said.
        In later years, she remained active in union and political work. The day before she died, she attended a longshoremen's rally for the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Presidential campaign, her husband said.
        A private funeral service was held Saturday in San Francisco. In addition to her husband, Ms. Yoneda's survivors are her daughter from a previous marriage, Joyce Ebangelista, her son, Thomas Yoneda, and two grandchildren.
      