
       Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a rapidly disappearing religious community, has died at 93, leaving only two Shaker women in their 90's in the state.
        Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a rapidly disappearing religious community, has died at 93, leaving only two Shaker women in their 90's in the state.
        Richard Kathmann, director at Shaker Village, said today that Miss Soule died in her sleep over the weekend.
        Miss Soule's death leaves Sister Ethel Hudson, 92, and Eldress Bertha Lindsay, 90, as the last Shakers in a community that once numbered 400 men, women and children.
        Miss Soule was born in Topsham, Me. At age 11, she and her sister were placed with the Shaker community at Sabbathday Lake, Me., after the death of their mother. Chose to Remain
        She chose to remain with the community when she turned 21 and signed the Shaker vow of celibacy. In the early 1950's, she became an eldress, or spiritual leader, of the Sabbathday Lake Society. In 1957, she was appointed to the Lead Ministry of the United Society of Believers.
        She moved to Canterbury Shaker Village in 1972 to assume further responsibilities as a member of the Lead Ministry and served as vice president of the nonprofit educational corporation and museum that administers the historic site founded in the 1780's.
        Miss Soule frequently told stories to the children visiting the museum. Her favorite was about an orphaned seal pup she helped raise when she lived with her father. They kept the seal in the family bathtub.
        Famous for their simple, efficient creations, including the flat broom, clothespin and ladderback chairs, Shakers once numbered 6,000 at 24 communities throughout the country.
        Now, the villages in Canterbury and Sabbathday Lake are the only ones with living Shakers. There are five undisputed shakers in Maine, and others admitted as new members. The Canterbury village has admitted no new members since 1965.
        Services for Miss Soule will be held Tuesday at the Dwelling House Chapel at the village, Mr. Kathmann said.
      