
       Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a rapidly disappearing religious community, died Saturday at 93 years of age, leaving no more than 10 Shakers in the United States.
        Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a rapidly disappearing religious community, died Saturday at 93 years of age, leaving no more than 10 Shakers in the United States.
        Miss Soule died in her sleep at the Canterbury Shaker Village, one of two remaining Shaker villages with Shakers, Richard Kathmann, director of the village, said Sunday.
        Miss Soule's death leaves Sister Ethel Hudson, 92, and Eldress Bertha Lindsay, 90, as the last Shakers in a community that once numbered 400 men, women and children.
        Miss Soule was born in Topsham, Me. At the age of 11, she and her sister were placed with the Shaker community at Sabbathday Lake, Me., after the death of their mother. Chose to Remain
        She chose to remain with the community when she turned 21 and signed the Shaker vow of celibacy. In the early 1950's, she became an eldress, or spiritual leader, of the Sabbathday Lake Society. In 1957, she was appointed to the Lead Ministry of the United Society of Believers.
        She moved to the Canterbury Shaker Village in 1972 to assume further responsibilities as a member of the Lead Ministry and served as vice president of the nonprofit educational corporation and museum that administers the historic site founded in the 1780's.
        Miss Soule frequently told stories to the children visiting the museum. Her favorite was about an orphaned seal pup she helped raise when she lived with her father. They kept the seal in the family bathtub.
        Famous for their simple, efficient creations, including the flat broom, clothespin and ladderback chairs, Shakers once numbered 6,000 at 24 communities throughout the country.
        Now, the villages in Canterbury and Sabbathday Lake are the only ones with living Shakers.
        Services for Miss Soule will be held Tuesday at the Dwelling House Chapel at the village, Mr. Kathmann said.
      