
       La Meri, the dancer, teacher, writer and dance ethnologist, died in a San Antonio hospital on Jan. 7. She was 89 years old.
        La Meri, the dancer, teacher, writer and dance ethnologist, died in a San Antonio hospital on Jan. 7. She was 89 years old.
        Described as ''the indisputed queen of ethnic dance'' by Walter Sorrell, the dance writer, La Meri was long considered the leading American authority on the subject, particularly the dance of India and Spain. She toured the world at the height of her career, in the 1920's and 30's, studying and performing in South and Central America, Europe, Scandinavia, Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, India, Burma, Malaya, Java, the Philippines, China, Japan, Ceylon and Hawaii.
        She founded the School of Natya with Ruth St. Denis in 1940 in New York, where she taught and performed with her company, the Five Natyas, and presented such guest lecturers as Pearl S. Buck, Coomaraswamy, Lin Yutang, Ted Shawn and Argentinita. Her book ''Spanish Dancing,'' published in 1948, was considered by many to be the definitive text on Spanish dance.
        La Meri, whose real name was Russell Meriwether Hughes, was born in Louisville, Ky. She received her first dance training in San Antonio, where she studied ballet and Spanish and Mexican dance as a child. She later studied Hawaiian dancing in Hawaii and, in New York City, modern dance with Michio Ito and ballet with Aaron Tomaroff and Ivan Tarasoff. Dancing Before Movies
        La Meri made her professional stage debut in 1924 in San Antonio, where she danced prologues to silent movies. In New York, she performed with Maria Montero and was a featured vaudeville performer with Keith Time and in the 1949 Broadway revue ''A Night in Spain.'' Her first major work was ''Krishna Gopala,'' presented in 1940 with St. Denis and Hadassah as guest artists. She also created an interpretation of ''Swan Lake'' in the Bharata Natyam school of Indian classical dance and created many dances in the styles of other cultures. ''An afternoon with Miss La Meri is rather like being shown a small corner of some connoisseur's collection of choreographiana,'' John Martin wrote in The New York Times in 1940 in a review of one of La Meri's many New York appearances.
        She taught and performed with her own company at the New York School of Natya, which was absorbed into the Ethnologic Dance Center she founded in 1942. The school continued until 1956 and was an important source of training in ethnic dancing. La Meri taught at universities across the nation. She also taught and performed at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and taught at the Juilliard School in New York. On her retirement in 1970, La Meri established Ethnic Dance Arts Inc. in Hyannis, Mass., where she presented an annual ethnic dance festival and awards.
        La Meri wrote six volumes of poetry and five books on dance esthetics, technique and composition. Her extensive collection of material on ethnic dance, given to the New York Public Library in 1948 and 1962, is a major holding of the library's Dance Collection. In 1972, La Meri received the Capezio Award.
      