
       Former Representative Gladys Noon Spellman died early today in a nursing home in suburban Maryland after being in a coma for nearly eight years. She was 70 years old.  Mrs. Spellman, a Democrat, was running for her fourth term in the House when her heart stopped beating temporarily on Oct. 31, 1980, while she was judging a
        Former Representative Gladys Noon Spellman died early today in a nursing home in suburban Maryland after being in a coma for nearly eight years. She was 70 years old.  Mrs. Spellman, a Democrat, was running for her fourth term in the House when her heart stopped beating temporarily on Oct. 31, 1980, while she was judging a Halloween costume contest at a shopping mall.
        Two days later, she was re-elected with 80 percent of the vote over a little-known Republican, Kevin R. Igoe.
        Mrs. Spellman remained hospitalized in critical condition for several weeks after her heart attack. Her condition later stabilized, and she was able to breathe without the aid of life-support equipment, but she never regained consciousness. Seat Is Declared Vacant
        After receiving a medical analysis stating that Mrs. Spellman was in a ''trance-like state'' and unable to take the oath of office, the House declared her seat vacant in February 1981. It was the first time the House vacated the seat of a member who had become mentally or physically disabled.
        Thirty-two Republican and Democratic candidates, including Mrs. Spellman's husband, Reuben, entered a special primary on April 7, 1981, to select the nominees to run for election in Maryland's Fifth District.
        Mr. Spellman was defeated for the Democratic nomination by Steny H. Hoyer, who went on to defeat the Republican candidate, Mayor Audrey Scott of Bowie, Md., in a special election on May 19, 1981. Mr. Hoyer continues to serve in the House.
        Mrs. Spellman, who was born Gladys Noon in New York City on March 2, 1918, was educated in public schools in the District of Columbia, George Washington University and the Graduate School of the Department of Agriculture.
        Her first elected position was as a member of the Prince Georges County Board of Commissioners in 1962. In 1967, she was appointed by President Johnson to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
        She is survived by her husband; two sons, Stephen and Richard; a daughter, Dana Spellman O'Neill, and four grandchildren.
      