
       Marta Abba, a leading Italian stage performer of the 1920's and 30's and the lifetime companion of the playwright Luigi Pirandello, died after suffering a stroke on her 88th birthday Friday in a Milan nursing home, her family announced today.
        Marta Abba, a leading Italian stage performer of the 1920's and 30's and the lifetime companion of the playwright Luigi Pirandello, died after suffering a stroke on her 88th birthday Friday in a Milan nursing home, her family announced today.
        Miss Abba entered Milan's drama school when she was 15 and began her career in 1923 with the stage company of the director Ettore Paladini. She drew acclaim the following year in Virgilio Talli's production of Anton Chekhov's ''Gabbiano.''
        In 1925, she became the lead actress for Pirandello, the ground-breaking dramatist whose work often focused on the thin line between illusion and reality. Pirandello, who was awarded the 1934 Nobel Prize in Literature, is considered by many to be one of the great writers of the 20th century European theater. Toured Together
        After spending years in Rome performing such Pirandello plays as ''Six Characters in Search of An Author,'' the playwright and Miss Abba went on tour in Italy and abroad, including the United States, France, Britain and Germany.
        Pirandello wrote several plays specifically for Miss Abba, including ''As You Desire Me'' in 1930.
        In 1928-29, Miss Abba formed her own company of young actors, mostly performing plays of her mentor. In the 1930's, she expanded her repertory to include Shakespeare, Shaw and others. Married After Playwright's Death
        Pirandello died in 1936. Two years later, Miss Abba married an American, S. A. Millikin, grandson of a Cleveland steel baron. She retired and settled in the United States.
        After the marriage broke up, she moved back to Milan in 1953, returning briefly to the stage with a company in her own name.
        She served on the board of the Institute of Pirandello Studies and Contemporary Italian Theater since 1962.
        Two years ago, Miss Abba donated to Princeton University the 560 letters that Pirandello had written her.
        Funeral services for Miss Abba are scheduled Monday in Milan.
      