
       Patricia Anne Hoffman Friedman, executive vice president and a partner in International Contract Furnishings, an importer and manufacturer of modern office and residential furniture, died of cancer Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 44 years old.
        Patricia Anne Hoffman Friedman, executive vice president and a partner in International Contract Furnishings, an importer and manufacturer of modern office and residential furniture, died of cancer Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 44 years old.
        An interior and furniture designer, Pat Hoffman, as she was known professionally, was influential in introducing avant-garde and early 20th-century European designs to the United States.
        Ms. Hoffman was born March 7, 1943, in Detroit and graduated from the University of Michigan's College of Architecture and Design. From 1965 to 1970, she worked as director of design for Koch & Lowy, a lighting firm in New York City. After spending two years in Rome working for an architectural firm, Ms. Hoffman returned to New York to join I.C.F., in charge of the company's design programs, including graphics, advertising and showroom design.
        For the last 15 years, Ms. Hoffman was instrumental in introducing designs that quickly became synonymous with the avant-garde. In the early 1970's, that included Giovanetti's Anfibio sofa, by Alessandro Becchi, an oversize leather upholstered raftlike sofa bed from Italy and the Interlubke system, a sleek German storage system. Introduced International Designs
        Most influential in the modern home furnishings field was Ms. Hoffman's introduction in 1975 of the furniture designs by Josef Hoffmann, the Viennese leader of the early 20th-century Wiener Werkstatte movement. The Hoffmann furniture designs were pivotal in the rediscovery and revival of many other early 20th-century classics and played a critical role in the current interest in this important period of 20th-century design.
        A lamp Ms. Hoffman designed in 1969 was exhibited in ''High Styles: 20th-Century American Design'' at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1985. Some of her other furniture designs have been shown at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago, as well as at the Mobelmesse, in Cologne, West Germany, the Salon International de Meubles in Paris and the Saloni di Mobili in Milan.
        Ms. Hoffman is survived by her husband, Samuel Friedman, president of I.C.F.; her parents, John and Mae Hoffman of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and a sister, Jane Knaus.
        The funeral will be held tomorrow at 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
      