
       Mildred E. Gillars, nicknamed Axis Sally by American soldiers in World War II for her Nazi propaganda radio broadcasts, died of cancer of the colon last Saturday at Grant Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio. She was 87 years old and lived in Columbus.
        Mildred E. Gillars, nicknamed Axis Sally by American soldiers in World War II for her Nazi propaganda radio broadcasts, died of cancer of the colon last Saturday at Grant Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio. She was 87 years old and lived in Columbus.
        An American living in Berlin, she broadcast programs in English to the Allied forces in Europe and North Africa, messages designed to heighten loneliness, fatigue and the futility of fighting Germany. After the war she was arrested and brought to the United States, where she was tried and imprisoned for treason.
        Her trial in 1949 attracted enormous public attention, as much for the soap-opera quality of Miss Gillars's life as for her crime.
        She was sentenced to 10 to 30 years in prison and was fined $10,000. After serving 12 years, she was released on parole from the Federal Reformatory for Women in Alderson, W.Va. She then taught music in the convent school of the Sisters of the Poor Child Jesus in Columbus. Release From Prison
        Miss Gillars was born Mildred Elizabeth Sisk in Portland, Me., but she changed her name. She attended Ohio Wesleyan University from 1918 to 1922. After her release from prison, she returned to the university and graduated in 1973 with a bachelor's degree in speech.
        Conflicting reports about her life abroad say that she studied piano in Dresden, modeled in Paris and was a dressmaker's assistant in Algiers and an English teacher in Berlin. She arrived in Berlin in 1934 and broadcast in English on the German radio before the war. Arrest in 1946
        When she was arrested in 1946, Miss Gillars said she had moved to Germany to marry a German citizen, who later died. The man was Max Otto Koischwitz, a former professor at Hunter College in New York who was an official in the German Foreign Office.
        At her trial, Miss Gillars fascinated the public and the press with her flamboyance and cool self-possession. She cut a theatrical figure in tight-fitting black dresses, long silver hair and a deep tan. She had scarlet lips and nails. Miss Gillars ''has the hair of Mother machree and she wears it in the manner of Rita Hayworth,'' Richard H. Rovere wrote in The New Yorker of Feb. 26, 1949.
        She sent a frisson through the trial when she described her obsessive love affair with Mr. Koischwitz, who was married. The program she was convicted of participating in, ''Vision of Invasion,'' was written by her lover. It was broadcast on May 11, 1944, only weeks before the June 6 invasion of Normandy. Mr. Koischwitz was reported to have died in the Soviet capture of Berlin in the spring of 1945.
        After the war, Miss Gillars was found roaming, hungry and homeless, near Frankfurt am Main, seeking to regain her American citizenship. At her trial, she was said to have renounced American citizenship while living in Germany and American officials reported that in 1941 she had refused repatriation.
        In 1950, a Federal appeals court upheld her conviction. It noted in its ruling that she had received the highest salary of all broadcasters on German radio.
        After prison, her life in Columbus was quiet and reclusive. She had an unlisted telephone number and her records at Ohio Wesleyan are sealed. She is survived by at least one half-sister, who asked not to be identified.
      