
       Eleanor Estes, a prolific author of children's books, died of complications following a stroke at the Whitney Manor Nursing Home in Hamden, Conn., on Friday. She was 82 years old and lived in New Haven.
        Eleanor Estes, a prolific author of children's books, died of complications following a stroke at the Whitney Manor Nursing Home in Hamden, Conn., on Friday. She was 82 years old and lived in New Haven.
        Mrs. Estes was born in West Haven. She graduated from the Pratt Institute Library School and worked as children's librarian in branches of the New York Public Library system.
        Her first book was ''The Moffats,'' written in 1941 and an instant hit. It illustrated the life of a family of four children growing up in a small New England town. Two other books about the Moffats followed.
        The most popular of her 19 books, many of which she illustrated herself, was ''The Hundred Dresses,'' a tale about a poor child who is ridiculed for her tattered clothing and who insists that she owns 100 dresses. They turn out to be drawings, and when they win a prize, the girl's tormentors are abashed - and perhaps reformed. Won a Newbery Medal
        Mrs. Estes won several literary prizes, the most prestigous being a John Newbery Medal for the most distinguished children's book, in 1952 for ''Ginger Pye.''
        She was once asked by The New York Times Book Review what she was trying to say to children. She replied: ''I am holding up a mirror, and the scene reflected in the mirror is a true image of childhood, and the mirror, besides reflecting, also speaks and echoes the clear, profound, unpremeditated utterances, thoughts and imageries of children. I like to make children laugh or cry, to be moved in some way by my writing.''
        Mrs. Estes wrote a single adult novel, ''The Echoing Green,'' which never achieved the popularity of her children's works.
        She is survived by her husband, Rice, and a daughter, Helena Sileo of Brooklyn.
      