
       Frances Midlam Kennedy, a former executive vice president of the advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi DFS Compton, died of lung cancer Saturday at the home of her daughter in Weston, Mass. She was 75 years old and had lived in Manhattan until last fall.
        Frances Midlam Kennedy, a former executive vice president of the advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi DFS Compton, died of lung cancer Saturday at the home of her daughter in Weston, Mass. She was 75 years old and had lived in Manhattan until last fall.
        With such campaigns as ''What's a woman to do'' for Total cereal and ''Bake a Gold Medal memory'' for the flour brand, Mrs. Kennedy rose to prominence in a field with few women executives. Working for what was then Dancer-Fitzgerald-Sample Inc., she was Chicago's Advertising Woman of the Year in 1960. She moved to the company's office in New York two years later to become a senior vice president and creative director.
        For several years until she retired last year, Mrs. Kennedy also headed the company's creative review board and the creative strategy advisory board. Evaluated Campaign Ideas
        Eventually, as chairman of D.F.S.'s creative review and advisory boards, she evaluated all campaign ideas before the client got to see them. In 1972, she also started a continually updated project meant to guide advertisers in their approach to women.
        A native of Wilmington, Del., Mrs. Kennedy attended public schools and started writing copy for Compton Advertising in New York in 1939, leaving for D.F.S. in 1947. Saatchi & Saatchi, which had taken over Compton and D.-F.S. separately, merged them into the present firm last year.
        Mrs. Kennedy, is survived by two sons, Edward C. of Lexington, Ky., and Stephen D. of Watertown, Mass.; a daughter, Dr. Katherine K. Treadway of Weston; a sister, Elizabeth Hudson of Dover, Del.; a brother, Edward Midlam of Lake Charles, La., and eight grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held at 2 P.M. tomorrow at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, Fifth Avenue at 53d Street.
      