
       Florence Eiseman, a designer of children's clothes who was known for excellent workmanship, top quality fabrics and simple but elegant styles, died of emphysema Friday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee, Wis. She was 88 years old and lived in Milwaukee.
        Florence Eiseman, a designer of children's clothes who was known for excellent workmanship, top quality fabrics and simple but elegant styles, died of emphysema Friday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee, Wis. She was 88 years old and lived in Milwaukee.
        A native of Minneapolis, Mrs. Eiseman began her career in 1945 when her husband, Laurence, packed up some of the dainty, organdy pinafores she made as gifts for friends and took them to a buyer at Chicago's Marshall Field & Company. He came home with a $3,000 order.
        Ten years later she became the first children's designer to receive the Neiman Marcus award for her contributions to fashion, an honor that has also gone to Christian Dior, Coco Chanel, James Galanos and Norman Norell. Designs Honored by Museum
        Early features of Mrs. Eiseman designs included French seams, hand-sewn hems, bound buttonholes and hand-rolled edges. Among those who dressed their children in her clothes were Princess Grace of Monoco, members of the Kennedy family and Elizabeth Taylor.
        In 1964 the Denver Art Museum highlighted her career in a fashion retrospective that is believed to be the first time that a designer of children's wear was so honored by a museum.
        ''Florence Eiseman has been one of the most influential figures in the children's fashion industry over the last several decades,'' said Carla Slocum, vice president and merchandise manager of children's wear for Saks Fifth Avenue. ''She was responsible for raising the standards of fashion and quality in better children's wear.''
        Mr. Eiseman worked closely with his wife until his death in 1967. Their sons, Robert and Laurence Jr., then shared management with their mother and today are chief executive officer and president of the Florence Eiseman Inc. respectively.
        In addition to her sons, Mrs. Eiseman is survived by a sister, Eva Tankel, of Minneapolis, seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      