
       Barbara Woodhouse, the dog trainer whose teaching methods and kindly manner made her an international celebrity, died today, relatives said. She was 78 years old.
        Barbara Woodhouse, the dog trainer whose teaching methods and kindly manner made her an international celebrity, died today, relatives said. She was 78 years old.
        Her family said she died in a hospital in Buckinghamshire, northwest of London, having suffered a second stroke a month ago. She had a first stroke in 1984.
        ''We shall miss her very much but she had been very ill for some time,'' Mrs. Woodhouse's son, Patrick, said today.
        In the 1970's and early 1980's, millions of dog owners in Britain and the United States watched Mrs. Woodhouse schooling pets on the BBC television program ''Training Dogs the Woodhouse Way,'' which became widely syndicated in this country. Before long, loyal viewers were telling their dogs, ''Walkies!'' as her byword caught on. With Love and Breath
        Her book, ''No Bad Dogs, The Woodhouse Way,'' was a bestseller in 1982.
        She insisted that any dog could be trained and showed that they could be taught within minutes with ''tone of voice, telepathy and a little bit of loving.'' Her way of getting to know an animal was to breathe into its nose.
        Mrs. Woodhouse's smiling, bespectacled face, framed by short gray hair, became a familiar sight on television talk shows. In 1980, she was ''flabbergasted'' to be named female television personality of the year in Britain.
        ''She had an amazing ability with animals,'' her husband, Dr. Michael Woodhouse, said.
        The Woodhouses lived in Croxley Green in Hertfordshire north of London.
        The daughter of a clergyman, Mrs. Woodhouse developed her knack with animals as a child when her mother boarded dogs. She learned she could stop their barking by talking to them in a quiet voice. Innkeeper for Man and Beast
        She trained dogs as her three children were growing up, and at one time ran a hotel for dogs and their owners.
        She made her first dog-training film, ''Love Me, Love My Dog,'' in 1955 using a Great Dane, Juno. It was shown in movie theaters around the country. Her first record album, in 1967, had advance sales of 25,000.
        Mrs. Woodhouse said she received 400 letters a day when the television program was running.
        She once said that because of the television appearances, she could not go out in public without being asked for her advice.
        The public recognition could be helpful, she said. Once, going through passport control at a London airport, the inspector said: ''Oh, here's the dog lady. No need to see your passport. Walkies!''
      