
       Florence Eldridge, the actress who appeared with her husband, Fredric March, in several Broadway plays and movies, including ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' ''The Skin of Our Teeth'' and ''Another Part of the Forest,'' died in a hospital emergency room Monday night in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 86 years old.
        Florence Eldridge, the actress who appeared with her husband, Fredric March, in several Broadway plays and movies, including ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' ''The Skin of Our Teeth'' and ''Another Part of the Forest,'' died in a hospital emergency room Monday night in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 86 years old.
        The immediate cause of the actress's death was not disclosed, but she had been in frail health for several years. She had lived in a condominium in Montecito, a suburb of Santa Barbara, since 1974. For many years previously, she and Mr. March, who died in 1975 at the age of 77, lived in Manhattan and on a 40-acre farm near New Milford, Conn.
        Miss Eldridge, who made her New York stage debut in the chorus of Jerome Kern's ''Rockabye Baby,'' in 1918, was a versatile actress who played in touring stock companies, motion pictures and on Broadway. She Played Mary Tyrone
        She topped a distinguished career on the stage in 1956 with her memorable portrayal of the tragic drug addict Mary Tyrone in Eugene O'Neill's autobiographical drama, ''Long Day's Journey Into Night.'' For that performance she was named best actress by the New York Drama Critics Circle.
        Miss Eldridge was named Florence McKechnie when she was born on Sept. 5, 1901, in Brooklyn. She graduated from Girls High School and immediately set her sights on an acting career. By 1921 she had made her mark, appearing in the Theater Guild's ''Ambush'' and impelling one critic to call her ''one of the brightest chapters in the season's theatrical history.''
        She became one of her era's most celebrated performers, appearing in ''The Cat and the Canary'' (1922), Pirandello's ''Six Characters in Search of an Author'' (1922), and as the neurotic and spoiled Daisy Buchanan in a stage version of F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Great Gatsby.''
        In 1927 she met and appeared opposite Mr. March in Molnar's ''The Swan,'' and they were married within the year. Then, on a repertory tour, they were not allowed to appear in the same plays together, for management considered it unromantic to have a man and wife play lovers. Ascendancy of the Voice
        The Marches wound up in Los Angeles in 1928, so the actor could appear in ''The Royal Family'' at a local theater. Sound had just been introduced into films, and Hollywood was eager to give work to stage-trained actors with excellent voices, like Miss Eldridge and Mr. March, and so they settled there.
        Miss Eldridge had appeared briefly in a New York-made film in 1923, but her first good movie roles came in 1929, when she made three films, ''The Studio Murder Mystery,'' co-starring Mr. March, ''Charming Sinners'' and ''The Greene Murder Case.'' During the 1930's, while her husband became a major box-office star, she appeared in several movies, including ''The Story of Temple Drake'' (1933), based on William Faulkner's ''Sanctuary,'' ''Les Miserables'' (again with Mr. March, in 1935) and ''Mary of Scotland'' (1936), in which she played Elizabeth I. The acting couple returned to Broadway in 1938 in ''Yr. Obedient Husband,'' a vehicle based on Samuel Pepys's diary, and failed so resoundingly they bought advertising space to apologize. The advertisement, in trade publications, showed the Marches as trapeze artists missing each other's grip in midair. ''Oops, sorry!'' read the caption.  In 1942, during the Broadway run of Thornton Wilder's ''Skin of Our Teeth,'' Miss Eldridge and Mr. March carried on an epic feud with their notoriously temperamental co-star, Tallulah Bankhead. The director of the play, Elia Kazan, in his recent autobiography, ''A Life,'' recalled that nightly, while Miss Eldridge was giving her main speech, Miss Bankhead would conspicuously comb her hair to upstage her. To retaliate, Mr. March stood in the wings gargling loudly while Miss Bankhead gave her big speech. Other Roles Together
        In 1948 Miss Eldridge returned to Hollywood to play Mr. March's wife in Lillian Hellman's ''Another Part of the Forest.'' That same year they appeared in a daring and controversial film about euthanasia, variously called ''An Act of Mercy'' and ''An Act of Murder.'' They also acted together in ''Christopher Columbus,'' in which Miss Eldridge was seen as Queen Isabella, in 1949, and, again playing man and wife, in ''Inherit the Wind,'' in 1960.
        The Marches had no children of their own, but adopted two, Anthony and Penelope. Miss Eldridge is survived by her daughter, Penelope Fantacci of Florence, Italy; five grandchildren; a great-granddaughter, and two brothers, David I. McKechnie, who lives in Oregon, and Cromwell McKechnie, of Carpenteria, Calif.
      