
       Jean C. Harris, a professor of art at Mount Holyoke College and the former director of its art museum, died of cancer last Friday at Holyoke (Mass.) Hospital. She was 60 years old, and had been on the Mount Holyoke faculty since 1957.
        Jean C. Harris, a professor of art at Mount Holyoke College and the former director of its art museum, died of cancer last Friday at Holyoke (Mass.) Hospital. She was 60 years old, and had been on the Mount Holyoke faculty since 1957.
        A specialist in 19th-century French painting, Ms. Harris had published many articles and essays in that field, and had prepared a number of exhibition catalogues, including ''Collegiate Collections,'' a history of art collecting at American colleges and universities.
        In 1970 she published a catalogue raisonne of the graphic works of Manet, and in 1984 a handbook of the Mount Holyoke College Art Museum. For the museum in 1962, she organized one of the first shows of work by contemporary American female artists. Examining Art's Economics
        At the time of her death she was editing a catalogue of the graphic works of the 19th-century French painter and etcher Alphonse Legros. With a colleague, Sarah Montgomery, a professor of economics at Mount Holyoke, she was also working on a book, ''The Art Complex,'' dealing with the economic organization of the art world.
        Ms. Harris was born on Dec. 4, 1927, in Cairo, the daughter of the Rev. Erdman and Harriette Pope Harris. She graduated from Smith College in 1949, and later earned both M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Radcliffe College.
        At Mount Holyoke, where she was named a full professor in 1971, she served for a number of years as chairman of the art department, and in the early 1970's oversaw new construction to house it. As director of the college's art museum, from 1978 to 1983, she helped add significantly to its collections, and to the number of exhibitions it organized.
        She is survived by her sister, Ruth Pelmas of Glastonbury, Conn., two nieces, a nephew, and an uncle, John Pope, professor emeritus of English at Yale University. A funeral service will be held today at 9 A.M. at Abbey Chapel on the Mount Holyoke campus.
      