
       Colleen Moore, the star of the silent screen who personified the ''flapper'' of the 1920's, died of cancer yesterday at her ranch near Paso Robles, Calif. She was 85 years old. Miss Moore appeared in about 100 films beginning in 1917 and ending with one of her comparatively few talking pictures, ''The Scarlet Letter,'' in 1937.
        Colleen Moore, the star of the silent screen who personified the ''flapper'' of the 1920's, died of cancer yesterday at her ranch near Paso Robles, Calif. She was 85 years old. Miss Moore appeared in about 100 films beginning in 1917 and ending with one of her comparatively few talking pictures, ''The Scarlet Letter,'' in 1937. But it was in the Roaring Twenties that she put her stamp on American social history, creating in dozens of films the image of the wide-eyed, insouciant flapper with her bobbed hair and short skirts.
        There was one other distinction known to every fan, even in the days before Technicolor: she had one brown eye and one blue eye. The eyes sparkled at audiences the world over beginning with the 1923 hit that made her big splash, ''Flaming Youth.'' Her Dutch bob was soon copied by hairdressers across America and her air of an emancipated young woman inspired countless imitations. Actress, Trend-Setter and Author
        Miss Moore was at the vanguard of fashion's first revolution of the 20th century as skirts rose above the knee, bosoms vanished and waistlines slid down to the hips.
        There followed such films as ''The Perfect Flapper,'' ''Naughty but Nice,'' ''Little Orphan Annie,'' and ''We Moderns.'' Her favorite, she said shortly after the end of her career, was a talkie, ''The Power and the Glory,'' which co-starred Spencer Tracy.
        At the height of her popularity she earned a million dollars a year from films and she was also an author, writing ''Silent Star,'' her autobiography and ''How Women Can Make Money in the Stock Market.'' In another work, ''Colleen Moore's Doll House,'' she dealt with an elaborate miniature doll house she built in the mid-1920's that cost $470,000 and was designed in the form of a castle, complete with electricity, running water, an organ and a radio. The doll house later was sent around the country for display in department stores to raise money for charity.
        Miss Moore was born Kathleen Morrison in Michigan on Aug. 19, 1902. She arrived in Hollywood at age 15 when an uncle arranged a screen test with the director D. W. Griffith. She wanted to be a second Lillian Gish, playing dramatic roles, but instead found herself playing pure-as-snow heroines in Westerns with stars like Tom Mix. She later observed that she usually came out second best to the star's horse. 'A New Type Was Born'
        She had long, curly hair then, but at her mother's suggestion in 1923 she cut the curls off and landed the part of the flapper.
        ''Here was a chance for a girl who had straight hair, who was not buxom and not a great beauty,'' she told an interviewer half a century later. ''A new type was born - the American girl.''
        In 1926, three years after her flapper had burst upon the screen, Miss Moore wrote: ''Don't worry, girls. No edict of fashion arbiters will ever swathe you in long and cumbersome skirts.'' She added: ''The American girl will see to this. She is independent, a thinker will not follow slavishly the ordinances of those who in the past have decreed this or that for her to wear.''
        Although she started the short-skirt fad with her appearances on screen, Miss Moore at first dressed quite differently in private life, favoring jeans, baggy sweaters and saddle shoes. But when she became a national fixture as the flapper, a designer friend accused her of being the worst-dressed woman in Hollywood. She took the criticism to heart and changed her manner of dress, managing to look both the all-American girl and chic and urbane.
        In 1937 she married Homer Hargrave, a stockbroker, her third husband, and ended her film career. She had previously been married to a film producer, John McCormick, and a New York broker, Albert F. Scott. Mr. Hargrave was a widower with two children, whom she came to consider her own. He died in 1967.
        Four years later Miss Moore hired a builder, Paul Maginot, to construct a home in Hidden Valley south of Paso Robles. In 1983 she and Mr. Maginot were married.
        Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daugher, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman, several grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      