
       Adela Rogers St. Johns, the journalist, author and screenwriter, died yesterday morning in the South County Convalescent Hospital in Arroyo Grande, Calif., her grandson, George St. Johns, said. She was 94 years old and had lived in Arroyo Grande for several years.
        Adela Rogers St. Johns, the journalist, author and screenwriter, died yesterday morning in the South County Convalescent Hospital in Arroyo Grande, Calif., her grandson, George St. Johns, said. She was 94 years old and had lived in Arroyo Grande for several years.
        As a journalist for Hearst and other publications, she wrote about such stories as the Leopold-Loeb murder trial, the abdication of Edward VIII, the Lindbergh baby kidnapping and the trial of the kidnapper, Bruno Hauptmann.
        She also wrote many articles for Photoplay magazine, becoming known as its ''Mother Confessor of Hollywood.''
        Her screenwriting included two Tom Mix westerns, and her published fiction included short stories and serials for The Saturday Evening Post, Good Housekeeping and other magazines. Worked for Several Papers
        The Hearst publications for which she worked over the years included The San Francisco Examiner, The Los Angeles Herald and The Chicago American. She also worked for the Hearst-owned International News Service.
        Mel Durslag, another longtime writer for Hearst publications, said yesterday, ''She was a tough, hard newspaper woman, a figure from the old, roaring days of Hearst journalism, which no longer lives.''
        Mrs. St. Johns was the daughter of a California criminal lawyer, and she spent much time in courtrooms in her youth. She wrote in a 1969 volume of memoirs, ''The Honeycomb,'' that what she did not learn at school she had ''learned from pimps, professional prostitutes, gamblers, bank robbers, poets, newspapermen, jury bribers, millionaire dipsomaniacs and murderers.'' Began Career in 1913
        She was born in Los Angeles on May 20, 1894, the daughter of Earl Rogers and the former Harriet Belle Greene. She grew up mainly in Los Angeles, attending several schools, including Hollywood High School, and then traveled widely, with time out to study piano in Leipzig.
        She began her newspaper career in 1913 as a reporter and feature writer with The San Francisco Examiner. She worked for The Los Angeles Herald from 1914 to 1918, The Chicago American in 1928 and The New York American in 1929.
        Mary Pickford, Tom Mix, Gloria Swanson and Rudolph Valentino were some of the celebrities she interviewed over the years.
        Mrs. St. Johns's first short story, ''The Black Cat,'' was published in 1918. Her first novel, ''The Sky Rocket'' (1923) became a movie, and so did ''A Free Soul'' (1924) and ''A Single Standard'' (1925). Taught at Universities
        She taught at the Graduate School of Journalism of the University of California at Los Angeles from 1950 to 1952, and at other universities over the years.
        Her books included ''How to Write a Short Story'' (1952) and ''Affirmative Prayer in Action'' (1955), and ''Final Verdict,'' a biography of her father, in 1962.
        Other magazines to which she contributed included McCall's, Ladies Home Journal, Cosmopolitan and Reader's Digest.
        Mrs. St. Johns was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Nixon in 1970.
        Her 1914 marriage to William Ivan St. Johns ended in divorce in 1929, and so did her subsequent marriages, to Richard Hyland and to Francis P. O'Toole.
        She is survived by a daughter, Elaine St. Johns of Arroyo Grande; two sons, McCullah St. Johns of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and Richard Rogers St. Johns of Los Angeles; 10 grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren and four great-great-grandchildren.
        Memorial services will be held Tuesday at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, Calif.
      