
       Anne Ramsey, whose portrayal of the ogre-like mother in the comedy ''Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Academy Award nomination, died of throat cancer Thursday night, her press agent, Stan Rosenfield, said today. Mrs. Ramsey was 59 years old.
        Anne Ramsey, whose portrayal of the ogre-like mother in the comedy ''Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Academy Award nomination, died of throat cancer Thursday night, her press agent, Stan Rosenfield, said today. Mrs. Ramsey was 59 years old.
        The actress died at 6:05 P.M. at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where she had been for about a week, said a hospital spokeswoman, Peggy Shaff.
        Mrs. Ramsey also appeared in ''Goonies'' and played Nick Nolte's mother in ''Weeds,'' but her role as the domineering, loud-mouthed mother in ''Throw Momma From the Train'' gave her stardom.
        It was the removal of part of her tongue during throat cancer surgery three years ago that gave her the speech impediment heard in ''Throw Momma,'' which starred Danny DeVito and Billy Crystal.
        The diminutive, hunch-shouldered actress played her most tormented and tormenting role in the movie, in which Mr. DeVito, as her browbeaten son, Owen Lift, tries to arrange a swap of murder victims. His writing teacher (Mr. Crystal) will kill Mr. DeVito's mother, while Mr. DeVito will murder Mr. Crystal's former wife. They abandon their efforts after a series of mistakes. 4 Films Still to Be Released Mrs. Ramsey was nominated for an Oscar this year for ''Throw Momma,'' but lost to Olympia Dukakis of ''Moonstruck.'' She will be seen in four films that have yet to be released: ''Doctor Hackenstein,'' ''Scrooge,'' ''Good Ol' Boy'' and ''Homer and Eddie.'' Mrs. Ramsey's show business career spanned 37 years.
        She appeared in two Barbra Streisand films, ''Up the Sandbox'' and ''For Pete's Sake.''
        Mrs. Ramsey's television credits included roles in ''The Young and the Restless,'' guest appearances on ''Hill Street Blues,'' ''Night Court'' and ''Knight Rider,'' and movies-of-the-week roles in ''White Mama,'' ''The Boy in the Plastic Bubble,'' ''Blind Ambition'' and ''Marilyn.''
        The actress often appeared with her husband, Logan Ramsey, in projects, including Clint Eastwood's ''Any Which Way You Can.''
        During the filming of ''Throw Momma,'' Mrs. Ramsey was undergoing oral surgery and was enduring intense pain, Mr. DeVito said. She began a series of chemotherapy treatments after suffering a recurrence of the cancer in April.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ramsey is survived a brother and a sister.
      