
       Ann Seranne, a food consultant and a former editor at Gourmet magazine who wrote more than two dozen cookbooks, died Saturday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. Ms. Seranne, who had suffered a stroke earlier, was 75 years old and lived in Newton.
        Ann Seranne, a food consultant and a former editor at Gourmet magazine who wrote more than two dozen cookbooks, died Saturday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. Ms. Seranne, who had suffered a stroke earlier, was 75 years old and lived in Newton.
        Ms. Seranne, who was born in Hamilton, Ontario, came to the United States in 1936. Writing about her on several occasions, the former New York Times food editor and restaurant critic, Craig Claiborne, called Ms. Seranne ''a born cook.'' Among her accomplishments, Mr. Claiborne said, she ''made the best pies in the world.''
        Since Ms. Seranne admitted to having a sweet tooth, it is not surprising that many of her books concerned desserts. Among them were ''The Complete Book of Desserts'' (Doubleday, 1963) and ''Delectable Desserts'' (Little Brown, 1962). ''Those books got me started,'' said Maida Heatter, a nationally known expert on desserts. ''They're just as important today as then.'' Breeder of Yorkshire Terriers
        Other books by Ms. Seranne, published mostly in the 1950's and 60's, included ''Ann Seranne's Good Food and How to Cook It''; ''Good Food Without Meat''; ''The Blender Cookbook''; ''Your Home Freezer''; ''The Complete Book of Home Preserving''; ''The Art of Egg Cookery''; ''The Best of Near Eastern Cookery,'' and ''The Sandwich Book.'' The last three were illustrated with photographs by Eileen Gaden, her partner in Seranne & Gaden, a food consulting company formed in the mid-1950's. They both had previously been editors at Gourmet magazine.
        Although she never lost her enthusiasm for cooking, Ms. Seranne had been breeding Yorkshire terriers for the last 25 years and was the author of ''The Joy of Breeding Your Own Show Dog.'' With Barbara Wolferman, she owned Mayfair Yorkie House, a kennel in Newton, N.J.
        Ms. Seranne is survived by a niece and nephew, Donna and Clifford Morden of Burlington, Ontario.
      