
       Ray Eames, who as a partner in the design firm The Office of Charles and Ray Eames exerted a powerful influence on furniture and industrial design over the last 40 years, died of cancer on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 72 years old.
        Ray Eames, who as a partner in the design firm The Office of Charles and Ray Eames exerted a powerful influence on furniture and industrial design over the last 40 years, died of cancer on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 72 years old.
        As a professional partner of her husband, Charles, who died in 1978, Ray Eames collaborated in the design of hundreds of chairs, tables, and other pieces of furniture that combined mass production with a high sense of style and comfort.
        Their most famous work is the ''Eames Chair,'' two pieces of molded plywood connected by stainless steel tubing. Other chairs and tables designed by the Eameses, who worked in Venice, Cal., were made from such materials as reinforced plastic and fiberglas.
        Today, their designs are commonly found in airports, high schools and hospitals in mass-produced form, and as showpieces in the most stylish offices and homes. Their Home Was a Showcase
        The Eameses' home in Santa Monica, Calif., was designed and built in 1949 as a demonstration project to encourage the use of mass-produced industrial materials. Virtually all of the materials used were bought out of manufacturers' catalogues. The house was a harbinger of the era of prefabricated buildings, but was also widely praised for the lightness, delicacy, intelligence and beauty of its design.
        Mrs. Eames, a painter by training, and Mr. Eames, an architect, collaborated in dozens of design projects ranging from films and books to fabric design and museum exhibitions.
        Their work in films was especially noted. Most of the films were educational, and many attempted to make scientific notions understandable to a wide public through striking visual means.
        The best-known of these efforts is ''Powers of Ten,'' completed by the Eameses in 1968 for the Commission on College Physics. The film illustrates the concept of tenfold magnification by zooming a camera from the surface of the earth to the edge of the universe, then back down to a carbon atom in a man's hand.
        A native of Sacramento, Calif., Mrs. Eames was trained as a painter, and studied with Hans Hoffman in New York City for six years in the 1930's. In 1940, she met Mr. Eames, an architect, at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. They married and moved to California in 1941.
        Mrs. Eames is survived by her daughter, Lucia Demetrios of San Francisco, and by five grandchildren.
      