
       Hazel Dawn, a celebrated singer and actress in the early decades of the century who was known as ''The Pink Lady,'' died Sunday at the home of her daughter in Manhattan. She was 98 years old.
        Hazel Dawn, a celebrated singer and actress in the early decades of the century who was known as ''The Pink Lady,'' died Sunday at the home of her daughter in Manhattan. She was 98 years old.
        Miss Dawn made her Broadway stage debut in March 1911 in an imported musical called ''The Pink Lady.'' The show was a hit, running for three years, and although she was not the leading lady Miss Dawn skyrocketed to fame.
        She was once the mascot of both Army and Navy at one of their annual football games. And Miss Dawn said that when West Point's cadets tossed their hats onto the stage, one hat belonged to a cadet who later became President, Dwight D. Eisenhower. Career Began in London
        Miss Dawn began her career in London musical comedies and appeared in ''The Dollar Princess'' and ''Dear Little Denmark,'' as well as ''The Pink Lady.'' In New York, Victor Herbert is said to have written ''The Debutant'' for her and she had roles in ''Up in Mabel's Room'' and ''The Demi-Virgin.'' Although she was an exceptional beauty, most of her roles were not starring ones.
        Hazel Dawn was born in Ogden, Utah, and named Hazel Tout. Her family later moved to Wales, where her father, a Mormon, was a missionary. In London, according to one version of how she got her name, a producer, Ivan Caryll, met her at a party and said: ''You're just the one I want for my new play. But you must change your name. Tout is honest but impossible. You are so young, so fresh, so pink, you remind one of the dawn; you shall be Hazel Dawn.''
        Miss Dawn starred in the original ''Ziegfeld Follies'' and appeared in early silent films of the Famous Players, among whom were Marion Davies and Margaret Clark. Married Into Wealth
        In 1927, Miss Dawn married Charles Gruwell, a mining engineer from Montana, reportedly ''one of the richest men in the West,'' and largely gave up her career, though she did appear on stage in ''Wonder Boy'' in 1931. After Mr. Gruwell died in 1941, she went to work in the casting department of the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency, retiring from there about 25 years ago. She also appeared in 1946 in the film ''Margie.''
        Miss Dawn is survived by her daughter, Dawn Gruwell Kaufman, and her son, Charles E. Gruwell, both of New York, five grandsons and seven great-grandchildren.
      