
       Nancy Hale, a novelist and short-story writer, died Saturday at the Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, Va., after suffering a stroke. She was 80 years old and lived in Charlottesville.
        Nancy Hale, a novelist and short-story writer, died Saturday at the Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, Va., after suffering a stroke. She was 80 years old and lived in Charlottesville.
        Flickers of prim Boston, social New York and proper Virginia danced through her works, the earlier ones focusing on the follies and foibles of well-bred women.
        ''I specialize in women,'' Miss Hale said in an interview in 1942, ''because they are so mysterious to me. I feel that I know men quite thoroughly, that I know how, in a given situation, a man is apt to react. But women puzzle me.''
        Nancy Hale was born in Boston on May 6, 1908, the daughter of Philip L. Hale and Lilian Westcott Hale, both painters. As a toddler she played in their studios, often setting up a palette and trying to copy whatever they were working on. Brief Career Painting
        She graduated from the Winsor School in Boston in 1926, studied at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and worked briefly as a painter.
        Bored with Boston, she moved to New York in 1928. After working as an assistant editor at Vogue (''I pinch-hit as a model''), she joined The New York Times as a reporter. In 1929 she began to contribute ''casuals'' - humorous sketches - and stories to The New Yorker.
        She became one of the New Yorker's best-known writers, and once boasted that she sold the magazine more stories in a single year than any other writer. First Novel About the Young
        Miss Hale's first novel, ''The Young Die Good,'' was published in 1932. It was based on her idea that young New Yorkers wanted something more than they were getting in life but had neither ''the courage nor strength to go out and get it.'' Her second novel, ''Never Any More,'' appeared in 1934, followed in 1936 by a collection of short stories, ''The Earliest Dreams.''
        Among her other works were ''New England Discovery'' (1963), ''Life in the Studio'' (1969), ''Secrets'' (1971), ''Mary Cassatt'' (1975) and ''The Night of the Hurricane'' (1978).
        She is survived by her husband, Fredson T. Bowers, of Charlottesville, a former chairman of the English department of the University of Virginia; two sons by previous marriages, William Wertenbaker, of New Haven, Conn., and Mark Hardin; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      