
       Ursula Nordstrom, the former publisher and editor in chief of juvenile books at Harper & Row, and an innovative force in children's book publishing, died of ovarian cancer yesterday at the New Milford (Conn.) Hospital. She was 78 years old and lived in Bridgewater, Conn.
        Ursula Nordstrom, the former publisher and editor in chief of juvenile books at Harper & Row, and an innovative force in children's book publishing, died of ovarian cancer yesterday at the New Milford (Conn.) Hospital. She was 78 years old and lived in Bridgewater, Conn.
        Miss Nordstrom is credited with helping to change children's books from moralistic works written for adult approval to works directed at the emotions, imaginations and problems of children. The New York Times called her books ''milestones along the path of children's literature.''
        In 1945 Miss Nordstrom edited E. B. White's first children's book, ''Stuart Little.'' In 1952 the author unexpectedly presented her with his only copy of the manuscript of ''Charlotte's Web,'' and she described the moment with the relish and enthusiasm of someone who treasured writers.
        ''I was overwhelmed,'' she wrote in an article in The New York Times Book Review in 1974. ''I didn't dare take a chance on losing the manuscript on the train home, or whatever. So I sat down and began to read.'' Respect for Children
        Miss Nordstrom exhibited equal respect for her audience of children, appealing to their fantasies as well as their fears. She edited books about divorce, alcoholism and loneliness. One of her authors, Louise Fitzhugh, wrote in ''The Long Secret,'' about a girl's first menstruation. ''William's Doll,'' which told of a boy who wanted a doll, appalled many men in publishing and enthralled feminists, who felt it was appropriate training for fatherhood.
        In 1963 Miss Nordstrom published Maurice Sendak's ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' filled with the aggressive and hairy monsters of a child's fantasy, after other publishing houses had rejected it, said Charlotte Zolotow, a former vice president of Harper & Row and Miss Nordstrom's colleague.
        ''With her incomparable editorial genius, Ursula Nordstrom transformed the American children's book into a genuine art form,'' Mr. Sendak said yesterday. ''I was there, one of her eager apprentices, profiting immensely from her intuition and her generous heart. She was the best of mommas, the best of teachers, the best of friends.''
        ''She was one of the great innovators,'' said Mrs. Zolotow, who worked with Miss Nordstrom for more than 40 years and who is the author of 60 children's books. ''She liked realistic books, where parents weren't always dear and good and children faced problems in their lives.''
        Miss Nordstrom also risked writing her own book, ''The Secret Language,'' about life in a girl's boarding school that must have resembled those she attended. It became an American Library Association Notable Children's Book of 1960. Own Imprint in the 70's
        Miss Nordstrom, who was born in Manhattan, began at Harper & Row in 1936. She became head of the children's book department in 1940 and in 1960 became the publishing company's first female vice president. In 1973, she stepped down as publisher and continued as senior editor with her own imprint until 1979. Among her other authors were Ruth Krauss, Shel Silverstein, Toni Ungerer, Laura Ingalls Wilder and Garth Williams.
        Her books have won many awards, including three Newbury Medals for literature and two Caldecott Medals for illustration, the most important children's book awards.
        With her at the time of death was her longtime companion, Mary Griffith. There are no survivors.
      