
       Georgia Graham Sargeant, a former leading dancer in the Denishawn company in the 1920's and a sister of Martha Graham, the modern-dance pioneer, died Tuesday in Tucson. She was 88 years old and had lived in Tucson for the last 10 years.
        Georgia Graham Sargeant, a former leading dancer in the Denishawn company in the 1920's and a sister of Martha Graham, the modern-dance pioneer, died Tuesday in Tucson. She was 88 years old and had lived in Tucson for the last 10 years.
        Known to the dance world, including hundreds of students, as Geordie Graham, she was also the director of the Martha Graham School of Contemporary Dance from the 1940's through the 1960's. In the 1930's, she married Winthrop Sargeant, who became the music and dance critic of The New Yorker magazine. They were divorced in the 1940's and Miss Graham devoted herself full-time to her administative duties at the school.
        The youngest of the three Graham sisters who were born in Allegheny, Pa., and who moved to Santa Barbara, Calif., in 1908, Georgia followed Martha Graham into the Denishawn school in Los Angeles during World War I. Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, considered among the founders of the modern-dance movement, enlisted the teaching talents of both Graham sisters before they recognized them as performers. A Star With Denishawn Troupe
        Mr. Shawn nonetheless made Martha Graham a star in his Aztec ballet, ''Xochitl,'' only to see her leave the company in 1922. Georgia Graham, however, danced with the Denishawn Dancers until 1928, sometimes performing in the roles created by Miss St. Denis or her sister. The latter included ''Revolutionary Etude'' and the title role in 'Xochitl.'' According to a fellow Denishawn dancer, Jane Sherman, Georgia Graham stopped the show in that production.
        She was a senior member of the Denishawn company on its widespread tour of Asia in 1925-26 and its transcontinental American tour in 1926-27. She also toured with the Denishawn troupe when it became part of the Ziegfeld Follies in 1928. Miss Graham was a dancer in 1931 in the early, all-female Martha Graham Dance Group. In 1933, she appeared in a theatrical production directed by Martha Graham, ''Six Miracle Plays.''
        She is survived by her sister.
      