
       When asked, after a trip to Egypt, how she liked the pyramids, the sculptor Louise Nevelson replied, ''Too small.'' The response, said the art dealer Arnold Glimcher, typified her sense of ''grandeur,'' her ''great expectations'' for herself and everyone around her.
        When asked, after a trip to Egypt, how she liked the pyramids, the sculptor Louise Nevelson replied, ''Too small.'' The response, said the art dealer Arnold Glimcher, typified her sense of ''grandeur,'' her ''great expectations'' for herself and everyone around her.
        Mr. Glimcher's anecdote was one of many wonderful stories told about the irreverent and irrepressible sculptor at a memorial service held yesterday in the Medieval Court of the Metropolitan Museum. Mrs. Nevelson died at her home in SoHo on April 17 at the age of 88.
        Among the more than 250 people who attended were stellar figures from the worlds of art, fashion and the movies. They included the artists Jasper Johns, Marisol, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal and Saul Steinberg; the art dealer Leo Castelli; the actress Sigourney Weaver; the musician John Cage; the couturier Arnold Scaasi; the photographer Arnold Newman, and the museum directors Philippe de Montebello, Richard Oldenburg and Robert Buck, along with William Luers, the Metropolitan's president. Also in attendance were Mrs. Nevelson's son, Mike Nevelson; her sister-in-law, Lillian Berliawsky, and her longtime assistant, Diana McKown. Between tributes spoken by friends, a quintet played music by Beethoven, Mozart and Ludwig Thuille, a 19th-century German composer. Rearranging 'Mountain Woman'
        At the gathering, William Lieberman, director of the department of 20th-century art at the Met, described Mrs. Nevelson as ''a great artist, a wonderful woman, an elegant lady and a good and generous friend.''
        Mr. Glimcher, Mrs. Nevelson's dealer for many years, drew laughter from the guests by telling of her reluctance to exhibit ''Mountain Woman'' -an early work that she had always disliked - in her 1967 retrospective at the Whitney Museum. As the curator kept insisting on it, ''she was more and more unhappy,'' he said.
        Shortly before the show opened, Mrs. Nevelson requested that Mr. Glimcher help her ''rearrange'' it. ''She asked us to carry 'Mountain Woman' across the room, and at midpoint she said, ''Drop it,'' Mr. Glimcher recalled. ''We did, and the work was 'rearranged' to her satisfaction, in a thousand pieces.'' A Telegram at Yaddo
        Hilton Kramer, editor of The New Criterion, a magazine of the arts, told of writing one of the earliest reviews of Mrs. Nevelson's work in the mid-1950's. It was the first in her long series of sculptural environments known as ''walls.'' He said that later, at Yaddo, the writers' retreat in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., he was summoned to the telephone by Western Union with a telegram from Mrs. Nevelson. ''The telegram read, 'I love you,' '' Mr. Kramer recalled.
        Despite her later success, he went on to say, Mrs. Nevelson ''remained extraordinarily independent of her reputation and other people's reputations.'' And he cited her belief that ''you can be anything you want to be'' as ''the key to her artistic ambitions, her esthetic audacity and the personal freedom she achieved as woman as well as artist.''
        Barbaralee Diamonstein, a member of the New York City Landmarks Commission, a writer on art and architecture and a longtime friend of Mrs. Nevelson, described the sculptor -known for her theatrical garb and personality almost as much as for her art - as ''all collage:her work, her conversation, her ensembles.''
        ''A complex cross between a princess and a peasant, an egalitarian with some surprisingly elitist concerns,'' she said, ''Louise was a living assemblage who accurately mirrored her startling and stunning constructions.'' 'I Always Knew I Was Great'
        Speaking also of Mrs. Nevelson's belief in herself as a vital factor in her work, Miss Diamonstein recalled once asking her how she had survived during her many years of obscurity before success. ''I always knew I was great,'' Mrs. Nevelson replied. The short program was ended by the playwright Edward Albee, who said Mrs. Nevelson had understood ''perhaps better than any artist I've known, that she was her art.'' And he told of interviewing the sculptor with a tape recorder for an article he was writing. ''She said she didn't mind,'' he said. ''I tested it out and it worked well. Then, when I actually put it on the table, she said 'What's that?' She passed her hand over it a few times. I asked the important questions. When I got home, my tape recorder was blank. It was simply that Louise was a wizard and those of us who knew her, knew her work, we knew she was a wizard, did we not?''
      