
       Beatrice Cynthia Freeman Feinberg, who became a best-selling author of romance novels under the name Cynthia Freeman after beginning her writing career at the age of 50, died of cancer last Saturday at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco. She was 73 years old.
        Beatrice Cynthia Freeman Feinberg, who became a best-selling author of romance novels under the name Cynthia Freeman after beginning her writing career at the age of 50, died of cancer last Saturday at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco. She was 73 years old.
        Mrs. Feinberg was the author of nine novels including ''A World Full of Strangers,'' ''Fairytales,'' ''The Days of Winter,'' ''Portraits,'' ''Come Pour the Wine'' and ''Seasons of the Heart.'' Her books have been translated into 33 languages and sold more than 20 million copies.
        Mrs. Feinberg was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, a child of German immigrants, and was brought up in San Francisco from the age of 6 months. She dropped out of school in the sixth grade and continued her education by auditing classes at the University of California at Berkeley. Seeking a Sedentary Pursuit
        At 18, she married Dr. Herman Feinberg, who was her grandmother's physician. Subsequently Mrs. Feinberg became an interior decorator for 25 years, until a serious illness forced her to take up a more sedentary activity.
        ''I'd been writing all my life - little things for Hadassah, plays for the Sisterhood,'' she said in a 1980 interview. ''I never thought of myself as a writer, but the simplest thing seemed to be to put a piece of paper in the roller and start typing.''
        Her first novel was not published until she was 55. It took her four years to write ''A World Full of Strangers,'' chronicling four generations in the life of a Jewish family in the United States.
        The novel was rejected by four houses before it was published in 1975 by the Arbor House Publishing Company. It sold 20,000 hard-cover books, ''a very respectable figure for a first novel,'' said Donald I. Fine, her first publisher, who edited her first six novels. The book went on to sell nearly 2 million copies in paperback. Explanation of Success
        Although her books were not received enthusiastically by reviewers, they were immensely successful. Gilbert Millstein, writing in The New York Times Book Review, said about ''A World Full of Strangers'': ''It is soap opera - in this case, Jewish soap opera - and the audience for soap opera, in print or on televsion, Jewish or not, runs into the millions.''
        ''The Last Princess,'' which was her final book, was published last April and will be brought out in paperback next spring. ''We know of no other book she was working on,'' said a spokesman for G. P. Putnam's Sons, which published her last three novels, all of them best sellers. Her Common Theme
        A common theme of the novels was the struggle of Jewish immigrants to make themselves at home in the United States while holding true to their traditions. ''I'm very interested in the perpetuation of Jewish life,'' she once said. ''My own family is very close. I suppose that's why I'm drawn to family sagas.''
        Mrs. Feinberg's husband died in May 1986, and her daughter, Arlene, died in an automobile accident in 1985.
        Mrs. Feinberg is survived by her father, Albert C. Freeman of Atherton, Calif.; two sisters, Ruth Sevier of San Francisco and Helen Dwane of Redwood City, Calif.; a son, Sheldon, of Danville, Calif.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      