
       Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday. She was 84 years old.
        Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday. She was 84 years old.
        The cause of death was not immediately disclosed.
        Baroness Lee of Asheridge, as she was known after being made a life peer in 1970, held a seat in Parliament for 27 years. She was a member of the Labor Party's national executive from 1958 to 1970 and served as party chairman in 1967 and 1968.
        The present leader of the party, Neil Kinnock, on Thursday recalled her as ''a woman of brilliance and vision, a great socialist, who inspired so many and was loved by all who knew her warmth and passion for justice.''
        Given special responsibility for the arts in 1965 by Prime Minister Harold Wilson, she played a crucial political role in starting the Open University, which provided higher education by correspondence, over radio and television and at evening classes to many students who had had no other university-level studies. Lesson for a Teacher
        Her lifelong concern for the underprivileged was sharpened by her experience while teaching for two years in the late 1920's in a village near Lochgelly in Fifeshire, eastern Scotland.
        ''I did not believe that there was any good reason why either the children or myself should come to terms with life as we found it in that bleak mining village,'' she wrote in her volume of memoirs ''This Great Journey.''
        ''Most of the misery I saw around me in school, in the streets, and in private homes, had its roots in the poverty of the place,'' she said. ''I did not see how, within the four walls of a classroom, I could ever hope to change any of that.''
        She ran successfully for Parliament and represented a Scottish district from 1929 until she lost the seat in 1931. She represented another district, near the industrial city of Birmingham in England, from 1945 until losing that seat in a general election in 1970. She then automatically acquired a seat in the House of Lords on being elevated to the peerage.
        A New York Times editorial commented at the time: ''How Scotland's fiery Jennie would have scorned the robes of a baroness early in her Labor Party career!'' Married to Bevan
        She was born Janet Lee on Nov. 3, 1904 in Lochgelly. Her father, James Lee, was active in the trade union movement. Her paternal grandfather, Michael Lee, won renown in the movement, rising to be a member of the Scottish Miners' Executive.
        Lady Lee was married in 1934 to Aneurin Bevan, a prominent Labor Party figure who was known as Nye. A former coal miner, he was a elected to Parliament in 1929 and remained a Member of Parliament for 31 years, serving as Minister of Health from 1945 to 1951. He died in 1960.
        After Jennie Lee was elected to Parliament from Staffordshire in 1945, and Mr. Bevan was re-elected to Parliament in the same elections, they became known as ''Britain's first man-and-wife parliamentary team.''
        Lady Lee, who held degrees from the University of Edinburgh, was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws by Cambridge University. Her books included ''My Life with Nye,'' published in 1980, in addition to ''This Great Journey,'' which was published in the United States in 1942 after appearing first in Britain.
        Lady Lee and Mr. Bevan had no children, and she has no survivors.
      