
       Sheilah Graham, who for some 35 years was part of what she called ''the unholy trio'' of powerful Hollywood gossip columnists - the others were Louella O. Parsons and Hedda Hopper - died Thursday of congestive heart failure at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84 years old.
        Sheilah Graham, who for some 35 years was part of what she called ''the unholy trio'' of powerful Hollywood gossip columnists - the others were Louella O. Parsons and Hedda Hopper - died Thursday of congestive heart failure at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84 years old.
        Miss Graham, who also served as a war correspondent in Europe in World War II and who at various times had her own Hollywood-based radio and television shows, is probably best remembered for her love affair with F. Scott Fitzgerald, whose last unhappy years she described in her first book, ''Beloved Infidel,'' published in 1958.
        That book concentrated on the Pygmalion and Galatea aspect of the relationship between the novelist and Miss Graham, in which he created a ''college of one'' for her, drawing up lists of books she read to complete ''the education of a woman,'' as her book was subtitled. 'The Very Best Portrait'
        ''Beloved Infidel,'' which Miss Graham wrote in collaboration with Gerold Frank, became an international best seller, received critical approval for its warmth and authenticity, and was hailed by Edmund Wilson in a long review in The New Yorker as ''the very best portrait of Fitzgerald that has yet been put into print.''
        Born into poverty in an East London slum, Miss Graham parlayed a native intelligence and her great good looks, under the guidance of several worldly and cultivated men, into a reputation as a bright, brittle and often witty sophisticate.
        She labored under no illusions, however, and late in life characterized herself as ''a fascinating fake who pulled the wool over Hollywood's eyes.'' She was also not above turning her talent for abrasive criticism of ''the lightweight pinheads of Hollywood'' upon herself.
        For example, in ''The Rest of the Story,'' published in 1964, she wrote: ''Sitting at my typewriter, banging out the items, I sometimes laugh as I stir my witch's brew, putting in the onions and the herbs to give indigestion to people I don't like or to those I think have slighted me, the great me. And it's true that I sometimes mistake my typewriter for my teeth, because the more I bite the more my column will be read.'' A Hard Childhood
        Miss Graham's real name was Lily Shiel, which ''to this day horrifies me to a degree impossible to explain,'' she wrote in ''Beloved Infidel.'' When she was an infant, she said, her father died of tuberculosis, and her childhood was characterized by a string of Dickensian hardships. For six years she lived with her mother, a domestic, in a rented basement room, then wound up in an orphanage. As a young woman, she put in a brief stint as a domestic, which she hated, and then went to work in Gamage's department store as a toothbrush demonstrator. Miss Graham said she got the job because she was pretty and had a dazzling smile and perfect teeth, ''thanks to a sweets-deprived childhood in the orphanage.''
        At Gamage's she met her first Pygmalion, Maj. John Graham Gillam, who employed her in the iron and steel company in which he was an executive, taught her table manners and coached her to free herself of her Cockney accent. After their marriage, she adopted the name of Sheilah Graham, studied briefly at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and finally was hired as a chorus girl by C. B. Cochran, the British equivalent of Florenz Zeigfeld, who put her in a 1927 musical revue called ''One Dam Thing After Another.'' When the star fell ill, Miss Graham went on in her place, and, of course, was a smashing success, she said.
        Cochran signed her to a contract for other shows and she soon began selling articles about show business to the penny press. She recognized that as a writer she possessed a quality of ''salable mediocrity,'' she said, and decided to carve out a career in journalism. At Home in Hollywood
        In 1933, Miss Graham said, she moved to New York and for two years wrote for The New York Mirror and The Evening Journal. In 1935 she was offered North American Newspaper Alliance's syndicated Hollywood column, and she moved to Los Angeles. She divorced Major Gillam in 1937.  She felt at home in Hollywood, more so than she had in New York, she said, because ''Hollywood was notorious even in London for the ignorance of the people who made the films - no one could embarrass me with erudite conversation.''
        It was in July 1937, at a party given for her by Robert Benchley to celebrate her engagement to the Marquess of Donegall, that she met Fitzgerald. It was love at first sight for both of them, she said. She broke off her angagement and entered into an affair with Fitzgerald that was to last more than three years, until Dec. 21, 1940, when he died in her arms.
        The years with Fitzgerald were, for Miss Graham, both idyllic and harrowing. The famed novelist was in failing health, fighting an epic and losing battle with alcoholism. He looked upon himself as a burned-out case, and he was having trouble turning out movie scripts to pay for his daughter's education and his wife Zelda's mental asylum bills.
        But they were devoted to one another and Miss Graham gave him not only her love and patience but also a measure of peace of mind. She served as the model for Kathleen, the heroine in ''The Last Tycoon,'' the Fitzgerald novel that was unfinished at his death.
        ''I was never a mistress,'' Miss Graham said. ''I was a woman who loved Scott Fitzgerald for better or worse until he died.'' War Correspondent in England
        After his death Miss Graham returned to England as a war correspondent. It was there that she met, and married in 1941, Trevor Cresswell Lawrence Westbrook, an executive of the company that manufactured the Spitfire fighter plane. Before the marriage ended in divorce in 1946, they had two children, Wendy and Robert. A brief third marriage, in 1953, to a man she identified only as ''an American of Polish ancestry with an unpronounceable name,'' also ended in divorce.
        Miss Graham resumed her Hollywood column after the war and, to earn as much money as she could, also wrote for magazines and conducted a radio show and a television show, ''Hollywood Today,'' in the mid-1950's. By 1964 Time magazine could report that Miss Graham had ''deposed Hopper and Parsons as doyenne of the Hollywood columnists,'' appearing in 178 newspapers, compared to about 100 for Miss Hopper and 69 for Miss Parsons.
        Miss Graham also produced several more books, three of them centering on Fitzgerald - ''The Real Scott Fitzgerald,'' ''The Rest of the Story'' and ''College of One.'' That volume, published in 1967, after Miss Graham found the handwritten Fitzgerald ''curriculum'' he created for her, listed his favorite books and musical works that he insisted she become familiar with. Other Graham books included ''The Garden of Allah,'' ''Confessions of a Gossip Columnist'' and the steamy autobiographical novel ''A State of Heat'' (1972). She also published ''Hollywood Revisited'' in 1985.
        Miss Graham is survived by her daughter, Wendy Fairey, who is dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Brooklyn College; her son, Robert Westbrook, now living in Khania, Crete; and by three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in New York next month.
      