
       Peggy Parish, the author of more than 30 children's books that have sold more than 7 million copies, died of a ruptured abdominal aneurysm on Friday at Clarendon Memorial Hospital in Manning, S.C. She was 61 years old.
        Peggy Parish, the author of more than 30 children's books that have sold more than 7 million copies, died of a ruptured abdominal aneurysm on Friday at Clarendon Memorial Hospital in Manning, S.C. She was 61 years old.
        Miss Parish's best-known character is Amelia Bedelia, a literal-minded maid who cuts a mistake-prone swath through 11 books (which are illustrated by various artists). When told to help the children plant bulbs, she buys light bulbs. When told to weed the garden, she plants row upon row of big weeds. When her employers, Mr. and Mr. Rogers, ask her to stuff stockings for the neighbors' children, she wonders why they want stockings full of turkey stuffing, but she dutifully obeys. When she is asked to make a spongecake, she snips a sponge into small pieces and drops it into a cake. A Birthday Celebration
        Amelia Bedelia has many redeeming qualities, of course, not the least of which is her naivete, and she is loved by her fictional employers. She is also loved by real schoolchildren, many of whom joined in a celebration this year of Amelia Bedelia's 25th birthday, sponsored jointly by Greenwillow Books, Harper & Row and Avon Books, her principal publishers.
        Paulette C. Kaufmann, director of children's book marketing at William Morrow & Company, the publisher of Greenwillow, said that hundreds of bookstores and libraries were given mailboxes in which children were invited to submit birthday wishes. ''Since August,'' she said, ''the contents of those mailboxes have been arriving daily - thousands of letters and drawings from children who have read and loved books about Amelia Bedelia.'' From Teacher to Writer
        Miss Parish was born in Manning, and graduated from the University of South Carolina with a degree in English. She taught school in Oklahoma, Kentucky and, for more than 15 years, at the Dalton School in Manhattan. It was while teaching third grade at the Dalton School that she published her first book, in 1961. Her first Amelia Bedelia book was published two years later.
        Her other books include ''The Cats' Burglar,'' ''Dinosaur Time,'' ''The Ghosts of Cougar Island,'' ''Good Hunting Little Indian,'' ''Hermit Dan'' and ''Let's Be Early Settlers With Daniel Boone.''
        Miss Parish had a lifelong interest in teaching children to read and study, and she was proud that her books were often used in schools. She returned to Manning in 1972, continuing to write and to speak to library associations and children's education groups.
        She is survived by her brother, Stanley, of Manning. A funeral service is to be held today at 2 P.M. at the Presbyterian Church in Manning.
      