
       Irmgard Seefried, a German-born Austrian soprano who gained great success in the postwar years in operas of Mozart and Richard Strauss, died of cancer yesterday in Vienna. She was 69 years old.
        Irmgard Seefried, a German-born Austrian soprano who gained great success in the postwar years in operas of Mozart and Richard Strauss, died of cancer yesterday in Vienna. She was 69 years old.
        Though Miss Seefried spent most of her career with the Vienna State Opera, she sang frequently at Covent Garden in London, at La Scala in Milan and at music festivals in Salzburg, Edinburgh, Lucerne and elsewhere. She was also a respected recital and concert singer. She made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in November 1953, as Susanna in Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro'' - one of her signature roles.
        Miss Seefried was born on Oct. 9, 1919, in Kongetried, a small town in Bavaria. Her father started to give her music lessons when she was a small child, and at the age of 11 she sang the role of Gretel in a performance of Humperdinck's ''Hansel and Gretel.'' She studied at the Augsburg Conservatory, and in 1939 joined the Aachen Opera at the invitation of Herbert von Karajan.
        She made her Vienna State Opera debut in 1943, as Eva in Wagner's ''Meistersinger,'' and remained with the company until her retirement in 1980.
        Miss Seefried made several concert tours of Europe, the United States and the Far East in the 1950's. In 1953, she and her husband, the violinist Wolfgang Schneiderhan, did a world concert tour together. 'Authority of Style'
        From the start of her career, Miss Seefried was praised for the clarity of her voice and her appealing stage presence. Reviewing her Metropolitan Opera debut, Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times, ''The shining light of this performance was Miss Seefried, whose beautiful voice and brilliancy and authority of style won her instant recognition.''
        During several seasons in the 1950's, she appeared as a soloist with the New York Philharmonic-Symphony orchestra under the direction of Bruno Walter. Reviewing her 1956 performance of ''Et Incarnatus Est'' from the Mozart Mass in C minor, Howard Taubman said in The Times: ''The top of her soprano may not have the brilliance of some other singers, but she is an artist. She sang with warmth and tenderness and with a richness of understanding.''
        Though her repertory came to include works by Hindemith, Poulenc, Berg and other modern composers, she was best known for her work in operas by Mozart, including Fiordiligi in ''Cosi Fan Tutte'' and Zerlina in ''Don Giovanni,'' and by Strauss, including Octavian in ''Der Rosenkavalier'' and the Composer in ''Ariadne auf Naxos.'' She also sang Marzelline in Beethoven's ''Fidelio.''
        Miss Seefried recorded most of her operatic repertory and several albums of lieder.
        She is survived by her husband and two daughters.
      