
       Gwendolyn Cafritz, a leading Washington hostess, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in the capital. She was 78 years old.
        Gwendolyn Cafritz, a leading Washington hostess, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in the capital. She was 78 years old.
        The widow of Morris Cafritz, a wealthy real estate entrepreneur, Mrs. Cafritz glittered on the capital's social scene in the 1950's and 1960's. As president of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, she oversaw annual contributions of about $6 million to local community and arts organizations.
        Mrs. Cafritz combined wealth, effervescence and numerous contacts in business and government into a potent concoction of lavish entertainments that, in Washington, are as much a part of political life as sessions of Congress.
        Initially, she competed with Pearl Mesta as Washington's premier hostess, the two vying to snare the most prominent guests. After Mrs. Mesta was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1949, Mrs. Cafritz undertook her campaign in earnest. A four-page account in Life magazine depicted her favorite summer soiree - one or two hundred guests, in evening dress, gathered for mint juleps and steaks on the barbecue in her backyard overlooking all of Washington.
        She gave dozens of parties every year in her 57-room, white brick mansion on a seven-acre hilltop that included a basement night club with illuminated dance floor, a gym and an Olympic-size swimming pool. Vice Presidents, Cabinet members, Ambassadors, movie stars, Supreme Court Justices and heads of state played happily there over four administrations.
        Born in Budapest, Mrs. Cafritz was the daughter of a Hungarian father and an American mother. She was a graduate of the University of Budapest. In the 1920's the family moved to Washington.
        She met her husband in 1928 and they were married the next year. He died in 1964. In the early 1970's Mrs. Cafritz was forced to withdraw from the social scene because of poor health.
        Surviving are three sons, Calvin, Carter and Conrad, all of Washington, and 13 grandchildren.
      