
       Anne Seymour, a stage, film and television actress who also performed in more than 5,000 radio programs, died of respiratory failure Thursday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. She was 79 years old and lived in Studio City, Calif.
        Anne Seymour, a stage, film and television actress who also performed in more than 5,000 radio programs, died of respiratory failure Thursday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. She was 79 years old and lived in Studio City, Calif.
        A New Yorker whose family had been involved in the dramatic arts for seven generations, Miss Seymour began her professional career in outdoor theater in New England in 1928. She got her first job on Broadway in the same year, as an understudy in ''Mr. Moneypenny.'' In her last appearance on Broadway, in 1958, she created the role of Sara Delano Roosevelt in ''Sunrise at Campobello,'' opposite Ralph Bellamy.
        In radio, Miss Seymour not only performed but wrote and directed programs between 1932 and 1961. She appeared in practically every memorable radio series broadcast from New York. These included 'Mr. Keene, Tracer of Lost Persons,'' ''Bulldog Drummond,'' ''The F.B.I. in Peace and War,'' ''The Theater Guild of the Air,'' ''Inner Sanctum,'' ''Studio One,'' ''Mr. District Attorney,'' ''Our Gal Sunday'' and ''The Romance of Helen Trent.'' Debut in 'All the King's Men'
        In films, Miss Seymour was considered essentially a character actress and a comedienne. She went to Hollywood in 1949 and made her debut as Lucy Stark in ''All the King's Men,'' which starred Broderick Crawford. Miss Seymour's final feature film, ''Shoeless Joe,'' with Kevin Costner, has not yet been released. Her other films include ''Desire Under the Elms,'' ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying'' and ''Hearts of the West.''
        Miss Seymour also worked extensively in television, appearing in shows like ''The Kraft Television Theater,'' ''The Nurses,'' ''Ben Casey,'' ''The Defenders,'' ''Perry Mason,'' ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Cagney and Lacey.''
        Miss Seymour is survived by a brother, William Seymour Eckert Jr. of Lombard, Ill.
      