
       Isabel Bishop, a painter and printmaker, died of Parkinson's disease Friday at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was 85 years old.
        Isabel Bishop, a painter and printmaker, died of Parkinson's disease Friday at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was 85 years old.
        Best known for her insight into the everyday activities of American women, young and old, and for her studies of life as it was lived in and near Union Square from 1930 until the present day, Miss Bishop was the living continuation of a specific and distinctively American idiom.
        That idiom, which was pioneered at the turn of this century by Robert Henri, Everett Shinn, George Luks, John Sloan and others, was reportorial in style, anecdotal in tone and shorn of all extraneous or merely complimentary material. It was intended to seize a moment, tell a tale, and give a renewed dignity to people for whom high art in this country had not often had a place. A Perceptive Observer
        On the street corner, in the automat, in the subway and on park benches in fine weather, Miss Bishop proved herself a perceptive observer. For young women in the big city who were as yet unmarked by life, she had a particular feeling. But she was alert to the potential both for happiness and for an irrevocable, untold misery that exists at every stage of metropolitan life.
        For all the rapid, spontaneous, firsthand qulity of her observation, she knew how to reach back into European Old Master painting for support and encouragement. John H. Baur, former director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, once said of her work that ''in some mysterious manner which I do not really understand, her paintings carry forward the great tradition of north European 17th-century figure painting.''
        Miss Bishop cherished that connection, and once said that ''you may have true gifts and the ability to make something that is new and surprising, but if your work hasn't any connections and your gift gives out, you haven't any leverage.'' Optimistic Viewpoint
        When she first came to New York in the early 1920s, determined to become an artist, Miss Bishop studied at the Art Students League with Kenneth Hayes Miller and Guy Pene du Bois, both of whom had studied with Robert Henri.
        From Pene du Bois, and later from her close friend, the painter Reginald Marsh, Miss Bishop learned to sharpen and perfect her sense of a New York subject. But neither age nor familiarity ever eroded her inherently optimistic approach to life. In her late work, it was as apparent as ever she had an unsentimental confidence that one day, somehow, the lot of women in the city would be changed for the better, Miss Bishop was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, on March 3, 1902, the daughter of John Remsen Bishop, a schoolmaster, and his wife, Anna Bartram Bishop. Her father moved his large family from Princeton to the Midwest in hopes of giving them a more comfortable life. The failure of this venture, and the experience of genteel poverty in Detroit, gave her a lifelong sympathy with underprivileged people. Moved to New York in 1918
        In 1918 she moved to New York and studied at the New York School of Applied Design for Women. Shortly after leaving the Art Students League in 1924, she began to work in the Union Square area, where she eventually took rank as the unofficial but unquestioned visual historian.
        In 1932, she joined the Midtown Gallery in Manhattan, with which she remained closely affiliated for the rest of her life. A member of the National Academy of Design since 1941, she was vice president of the National Institute of Arts and Letters from 1944-46, a Benjamin Franklin Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in London in 1964, a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1971, and the recipient of honorary doctorates at Bates College, Mount Holyoke College and Syracuse University. She also received the gold medal of the National Arts Club in 1968 and 1970, the Outstanding Achievement in the Arts award (presented by President Carter) in 1979, and the gold medal for painting from the National Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1987.
        Miss Bishop was married in 1934 to Dr. Harold Wolff, a neurologist. She is survived by a son, Remsen Wolff, and two granddaughters, Sara and Naomi Wolff.
        Correction:  February 27, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
      