
       Gloria Hollister Anable, an explorer, scientist and conservationist who set a women's world record for ocean descent in a bathysphere in 1931, died of cardiac arrest Friday at the Carolton convalescent home in Fairfield, Conn., where she had lived for three years. She was 87 years old and had previously lived in
        Gloria Hollister Anable, an explorer, scientist and conservationist who set a women's world record for ocean descent in a bathysphere in 1931, died of cardiac arrest Friday at the Carolton convalescent home in Fairfield, Conn., where she had lived for three years. She was 87 years old and had previously lived in Stamford.
        Miss Hollister, as she was known during most of her scientific career, became a celebrity in the 1930's, a time when only a handful of women earned headlines for their feats in a man's world of discovery.
        Miss Hollister was a longtime associate of Dr. William Beebe, the oceanographer. She was his chief assistant on many of his voyages of exploration in the late 20's and 30's, and she served with other expeditions of the New York Zoological Society, of which she was a fellow.
        In 1936 she led an exploring party through the jungles of British Guiana to the Kaieteur Falls, five times the height of Niagara. On that trip, using a light plane, she discovered 43 waterfalls. Studied Fish on Sea Floor
        Born in New York City, she graduated in 1924 from Connecticut College for Women, where she was twice chosen class president, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was selected a member of the All-America girls' hockey team. She earned a master's degree in zoology at Columbia and worked with Dr. Alexis Carrel on cancer research at the Rockefeller Institute. A fellow institute volunteer at the time was Charles A. Lindbergh.
        In 1928 she was invited to accompany Dr. Beebe as a research associate on a voyage to the waters near Bermuda, where she studied fish on the sea floor 20 feet to 40 feet down. Two years later, after another Beebe associate, Otis Barton, had built the first bathysphere, she went with them to explore deep-sea life. It was on one of these expeditions that she went down 410 feet for the women's descent record.
        Though much of her exploration was beneath the ocean surface or in remote lands, she also explored the inner world of nature in the laboratory of the Zoological Society, where she worked with Dr. Beebe and other scientists. She referred to herself as a detective seeking nature's secrets.
        In 1941 Miss Hollister married Anthony Anable and after World War II they moved to Stamford. In the early 50's they, with a few others, founded the Mianus River Gorge Conservation Committee, the pioneer land project of The Nature Conservancy. The gorge became the country's first natural history landmark to be registered by the Department of the Interior. The preserve, orginally 60 acres, now embraces 555 acres. Mrs. Anable was chairman emeritus of the committee at her death.
        Mrs. Anable is survived by two nieces, Gloria Musselman of Lexington Park, Md., and Elizabeth Miller of Columbus, Ga.
      