
       Judith Somogi, one of the first women to become a conductor, died at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I., Wednesday morning. She was 47 years old and had suffered from cancer for four years.
        Judith Somogi, one of the first women to become a conductor, died at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I., Wednesday morning. She was 47 years old and had suffered from cancer for four years.
        Miss Somogi's early successes were at the New York City Opera, where she made her 1974 debut in ''The Mikado'' and ''La Traviata,'' thus becoming the company's first female conductor. Yet, the preponderance of her career was centered in Europe. Beginning in 1981, Miss Somogi became first Kapellmeister under Michael Gielen at the Frankfurt Opera and left there only last year with the departure of Mr. Gielen and the dismantling of his organization. Miss Somogi's last appearance was six months ago conducting ''Das Rheingold'' in Frankfurt.
        She never returned to the New York stage after moving to West Germany. During her Frankfurt career, she presided over new productions of ''Il Turco in Italia,'' ''Un Ballo in Maschera,'' ''Tales of Hoffmann'' and ''Das Rheingold.'' Miss Somogi's American appearances during her European years were confined to productions at the Tulsa Opera. Joined City Opera in '66
        She joined the City Opera in 1966 as a rehearsal pianist, spending her summers as assistant conductor to Thomas Schippers at the Spoleto Festival in Italy. There were also purely instrumental conducting appearances with the New York and Los Angeles Philharmonics and more opera with various regional companies across the United States.
        At the time Miss Somogi was hired in Frankfurt, Mr. Gielen said: ''We took her because she was the best. Our orchestra has some old experienced hands who cannot be taught very much. Within five minutes she had them on the edge of their seats.''
        Judith Somogi was born in Brooklyn of a Hungarian father and a Sicilian mother. She said she had gained valuable experience as a church organist and choir director in Lynbrook, L.I., and as a pianist, she went on earn two degrees at Juilliard. ''Conducting,'' Miss Somogi once said, ''is something you learn by doing.''
        She is survived by her parents, Louis and Antonina, and by her sister, Jane, all of Lynbrook.
      