
       Jeanne Behrend, a pianist and composer who specialized in American music, died March 20 after a long illness at the Logan East retirement community care center in Philadelphia. She was 76 years old.
        Jeanne Behrend, a pianist and composer who specialized in American music, died March 20 after a long illness at the Logan East retirement community care center in Philadelphia. She was 76 years old.
        Miss Behrend was born in Philadelphia and made her first public apperarance there at the age of 11. In 1934 she graduated from the city's Curtis Institute, where she studied piano with Josef Hofmann and composition with Rosario Scalero.
        Her New York debut followed in 1937 at Carnegie Hall, with a program that included a piano sonata she had composed. Howard Taubman, writing in The New York Times, found fault with the sonata but praised her playing.
        Throughout the 1940's, 50's and 60's, Miss Behrend pursued a considerable pianistic career, concentrating on the music of North and South America. Heitor Villa-Lobos, the Brazilian composer, called her ''a heroine of the Americas,'' and she played often in Latin American countries. In 1959 she founded and directed the Philadelphia Festival of Western Hemisphere Music, and in 1965 she was awarded the Brazilian Order of the Southern Cross. Gave Up Composing
        As a composer, Miss Behrend produced a variety of mostly small-scale pieces, only some of which were published. After giving up composition in the late 1940's, she explained that she felt opportunities for women in composing were too limiting.
        Miss Behrend taught courses in American music and piano at a variety of institutions in Philadelphia as well as at the Juilliard School in New York. A Gottschalk expert, she edited a selection of his piano scores as well as his autobiography, ''Notes of a Pianist.'' She also edited a Stephen Foster song collection and a volume of American fuguing tunes.
        Her first husband, Alexander Kelberine, a pianist, died in 1940, and her second husband, George S. McManus, a collector and dealer in books specializing in Americana, died in 1967. Miss Behrend is survived by her sister, Ruth Hagedorn, of Gadsden, Ala.
      