The jury deliberated for a third day yesterday in the fraud trial of former Philippine First Lady Imelda Marcos. The panel reheard testimony about the transfer of millions of dollars from the Philippines for the purchase of Manhattan real estate. The jurors focused on two of four prop
Brenda Lansdown, a retired professor of education who introduced new teaching methods in China, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. She was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause of death was pneumonia, said Harriet Harvey, a friend. Brenda Lansdown
Marion Rice Hart, a sportswoman and author who sailed a ketch around the world and in her later years made seven solo flights across the Atlantic, the last at 83 years old, died on Monday. She was 98 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif. She previously lived in Washington and Manhat
Vicki Stein, founder of Victims Assistance Services of Westchester County, a group of professionals formed with state and county money to help victims of domestic violence and other crimes, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. She was 67 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.     
Frances Ward Harrington, a retired magazine editor, died on Wednesday at Caleb Hitchcock Medical Center in Bloomfield, Conn. She was 86 years old and lived in Duncaster, a retirement community in Bloomfield. Frances Ward Harrington, a retired magazine editor, died on Wednesday
Fredrika Blair-Hastings, author of a 1986 biography of the dancer Isadora Duncan, died on July 1. She was 71 years old and lived in Carmel, Calif. Fredrika Blair-Hastings, author of a 1986 biography of the dancer Isadora Duncan, died on July 1. She was 71 years old and lived i
Olive Ann Burns, whose illness with lymphoma prompted her to write the 1984 novel ''Cold Sassy Tree,'' died on Wednesday. She was 65 years old and lived in Atlanta. Olive Ann Burns, whose illness with lymphoma prompted her to write the 1984 novel ''Cold Sassy Tree,'' died on W
Marjorie M. Bitker, a writer and former trustee of Barnard College, died on Tuesday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee. She was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marjorie M. Bitker, a writer and former trustee of Barnard College, died on Tuesday at Columbia Hospital in Milwa
Mildred Scott Olmsted, a longtime antiwar campaigner who was national executive director of a leading pro-disarmament group, died Monday at her home in Rose Valley, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. She was 99 years old. Mildred Scott Olmsted, a longtime antiwar campaigner who wa
Denise Musnik, an advertising executive in Paris, died on Friday at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France. Miss Musnik, who was born in New York, was 58 years old and had lived in Paris for about 30 years. She died of cancer, a friend said. Miss Musnik was head of interna
Frances Vengen, a garment industry union official for 25 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Lake City, Fla. She was 93 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. There are no immediate survivors. Frances Vengen, a garment industry union official for 25 years, died o
Patricia C. Critchlow, a retired administrative aide with the International Food Policy Research Institute, died Sunday at her home in Newburyport, Mass. She was 64 years old and lived previously in Hartsdale, N.Y. Patricia C. Critchlow, a retired administrative aide with the 
Sandra M. Schor, a poet, novelist and associate professor of English at Queens College, died on Monday at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She was 58 years old and lived in Locust Valley, L.I., and in Manhattan. Her family said she died of cancer. Sandra M. Schor, a
Evelyn Klein Spitalny, a violinist who was the concertmaster in Phil Spitalny's All-Girl Orchestra, died on Sunday at a hospital in Miami Beach. She was 79 years old and died of heart failure, said the executor of her estate, Barton S. Goldberg. Evelyn Klein Spitalny, a violin
Esther Lucile Brown, an author, educator and social anthropologist whose contributions led to major changes in nursing education and practice, died July 6 at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco. She was 92 years old and lived in San Francisco. Esther Lucile Br
Louise A. Baum, president of the Eastern Bag & Paper Company of Bridgeport, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 64 years old. Louise A. Baum, president of the Eastern Bag & Paper Company of Bridgeport, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Fairfield, C
Mary B. Joy, a former official with the American Association of University Women who was also active in many other civic organizations, died on Wednesday at her home in Morris Township, N.J. She was 82 years old and died of congestive heart failure, her husband, Homer, said. M
Lois Moran Young, a star of Hollywood's silent films and Broadway musicals who began charming audiences as a dancer at the Paris Opera at the age of 13, died Friday at the Kachina Point Health Center, a nursing home in Sedona, Ariz., near Flagstaff. She was 81 years old and lived in S
Mildred Falk Loew, a former editor and part owner of The American Mercury magazine, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 79 years old. Mildred Falk Loew, a former editor and part owner of The American Mercury magazine, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She w
Berenice Robinson Morris, a composer, teacher and editor, died on Friday in Mount Vernon Hospital. She was 81 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Berenice Robinson Morris, a composer, teacher and editor, died on Friday in Mount Vernon Hospital. She was 81 years old and l
Margaret Lockwood, an actress who became one of the most popular figures in British films of the late 1940's, died on Sunday. She was 73 years old. Margaret Lockwood, an actress who became one of the most popular figures in British films of the late 1940's, died on Sunday. She
Faith E. Andrews, an authority on the Shaker religious sect, died on July 6 at a nursing home in Pittsfield, Mass. was 93 years old and lived in Pittsfield. Faith E. Andrews, an authority on the Shaker religious sect, died on July 6 at a nursing home in Pittsfield, Mass. was 9
Laura Perls, a founder of the Gestalt school of psychotherapy, died Friday in Pforzheim, West Germany. She was 84 years old. Laura Perls, a founder of the Gestalt school of psychotherapy, died Friday in Pforzheim, West Germany. She was 84 years old. She died of complic
Alison Leggatt, an actress who won renown in plays by John Osborne and Harold Pinter, died on Sunday, her family said today. She was 86 years old. Alison Leggatt, an actress who won renown in plays by John Osborne and Harold Pinter, died on Sunday, her family said today. She w
Peggy Mann Houlton, the author of more than 35 books and many magazine articles, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Peggy Mann Houlton, the author of more than 35 books and many magazine articles, died on Tue
Lady Ashton, better known as Madge Garland, who was fashion editor of English Vogue in the 1930's and founded the Royal College of Art's Fashion School, has died, according to news reports on Wednesday. She was 92 years old. Lady Ashton, better known as Madge Garland, who was 
Joan Whitney Kramer, a singer and the co-author of many hit songs, died on July 12 in Westport, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Westport. Joan Whitney Kramer, a singer and the co-author of many hit songs, died on July 12 in Westport, Conn. She was 76 years old and live
Dr. Isabelle Liberman, an authority on reading disabilities who taught for 21 years at the University of Connecticut, died on Thursday at her home in Mansfield Center, Conn. She was 71 years old. Her family said she died of heart failure. Dr. Liberman wrote widely on dyslexia, and at 
Patricia Keane Mason, a former art gallery owner who was active in charities, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. Patricia Keane Mason, a former art gallery owner who was active in charities, died on Saturday at Beth Isr
Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford. Mary A
