 Annie Devine, a no-nonsense Mississippi trailblazer for the Voting Rights Act of 1965, died on Aug. 22 at a hospital in Ridgeland, Miss. She was 88 and lived in nearby Canton. Mrs. Devine, a soft-spoken woman with a ready smile, became deeply involved in the civil rights movement of
 Grace Halsell, a journalist whose curiosity about ''a wider world'' led her to experience life on society's fringes by disguising herself as women of different races, died on Aug. 16  in Washington, where she lived. She was 77. Inspired by John Howard Griffin's 1961 book ''Black Lik
 Tatiana Riabouchinska, an international ballet star who was the model for the dancing hippopotamus in the 1940 film ''Fantasia'' and the oldest of the three ''baby ballerinas'' who brought fame to the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in the 1930's, died on Aug. 24 in Los Angeles. She was 83 and 
 Penelope Russianoff, a psychotherapist, writer and lecturer who advised women on how to assert themselves, died on Aug. 28 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 82 and also had a home and practice in Sherman, Conn. Dr. Russianoff maintained that women must unlearn
 Lucille Fletcher, who transfixed a national audience with her radio drama ''Sorry, Wrong Number'' on CBS's ''Suspense'' in 1943, died on Thursday in Langhorne, Pa. She was 88 and lived in Oxford, Md. Besides her radio plays, Miss Fletcher was the author of novels, stage plays and sc
 Linda Grey, a top publishing executive who rose from editorial assistant to president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group, died on Aug. 30. She was 54 and lived in New York. The cause was complications from lung cancer, said Alan Davies, a  friend of Ms. Grey's.        
 Lucy A. Wicks, a psychologist who worked with people infected with H.I.V. and the founder of the Manhattan School for Children, one of the most innovative and sought-after alternative public schools in Manhattan, died Saturday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center. She was 49.        
 Beah Richards, whose distinguished career as an actress on stage, screen and television over 50 years was capped this month when she won an Emmy as a guest actor on ''The Practice,'' died on Thursday in Vicksburg, Miss. She was 80. She was born in Vicksburg and lived in Los Angeles until Me
 Elizabeth Gordon, the influential editor of House Beautiful magazine for more than 20 years, a missionary of taste to the American homemaker and an indefatigable supporter of Frank Lloyd Wright, died on Sept. 3 in Adamstown, Md., where she lived. She was 94. When she took over as ed
 Paula Yates,  a British television personality known for her outrageously flirtatious interviewing style and for her relationships with the rock stars Bob Geldof and Michael Hutchence, was found dead at home here on Sunday. She was 40. The cause was apparently a drug overdose, the a
 Mary Colquhoun, a versatile, award-winning casting director, died on Sept. 10 in Manhattan. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Carol Fineman, general press representative of the Joseph Papp Public Theater/New York Shakespeare Festival. Ms. 
 Sophie Davis, a successful businesswoman whose backing helped create the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education at the City College of New York, died on Saturday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 74. The cause was breast cancer, her son Alan said. Mrs. Davis helpe
 Dawn Langley Simmons, an author whose tumultuous life included a sex change operation and an interracial marriage that scandalized her adopted hometown, Charleston, S.C., died on Sept. 18 at her daughter's home there. She was 77. Mrs. Simmons, who was the adopted child of the Englis
