 Lyn Austin, an innovative theatrical producer who, as the founder and head of the Music-Theater Group, discovered, nurtured and produced the work of Martha Clarke, Julie Taymor, Richard Foreman and other major experimental theater artists, died on Sunday in New York after being struck by a 
 Anna Berenson Mayer, a social work policy planner and retired professor of social policy at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday at a New Brunswick, N.J., hospital. She was 91 and lived in East Brunswick, N.J. Dr. Mayer, who received a doctorate in social work from Columbia Univers
 Lucia Evangelista, a former soprano, a notable figure in New Jersey cultural circles and the wife of the renowned American bass Jerome Hines, died on Oct. 26 in North Plainfield, N.J. She was 83 and had been suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease. Ms. Evangelista was born in Genoa, Ita
 Amalia Hernandez, the founder of the internationally successful Ballet Folklorico de Mexico, died on Saturday in Mexico City. She was 83. Ms. Hernandez, a specialist in Mexican folk dance, created programs that resembled fiestas, notable for eye-catching choreography and colorful co
 Baroness Ryder of Warsaw, whose deep sense of obligation to others and passion for charity work led her to build an international network of homes and treatment centers for the sick and disabled, died on Thursday at West Suffolk Hospital in Bury St. Edmunds, England. She was 77. A s
 Rita A. Edelman, a philanthropist who was prominent in national charitable organizations, died on Friday in a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills. Mrs. Edelman was an early supporter of the United Cerebral Palsy Associations and became the honorar
 Ruth Mitchell, one of Broadway's best-known backstage bosses who parlayed her professional prowess and personal flair into a successful producing career, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 81. Ms. Mitchell hailed from the tough streets of Newark, and it showed in her decision to w
 Rosalind Baker Wilson, an editor and writer who published a memoir of her father, Edmund Wilson, one of America's foremost men of letters, died on Oct. 30 in Syracuse. She was 79 and lived in Talcottville, N.Y. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Tim Page, a friend. Ms
 Eleanor Naumburg Sanger, the first program director of WQXR, the classical music station that was later purchased by The New York Times Company, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 100. Mrs. Sanger and her husband, Elliott M. Sanger, who helped found the station, asse
 Mary Hunter Wolf, one of the first female directors on Broadway, died Nov. 3 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95. Born in Bakersfield, Calif., and orphaned as a teenager, Ms. Hunter (who took the name Wolf after marrying Herman Wolf in 1955) discovered her love of the theater while a studen
 Mary Sinclair, an actress who was a familiar face to television viewers in the 1950's, died on Nov. 5 in Phoenix. She was 78 and lived in Phoenix. The cause of death was not disclosed. Ms. Sinclair, whom Life magazine called ''a hazel-eyed beauty,'' was born in San Diego and
 Eugenia Rawls, a theater actress who portrayed Tallulah Bankhead and others in one-woman shows, died on Nov. 8 in Denver. She was 87. A native of Macon, Ga., Miss Rawls first took the stage at age 4 in a local production of ''Madame Butterfly,'' encouraged by her grandmother and two
 Andy Logan, the reporter whose witty, elegant and gently sarcastic voice dissected the goings-on at New York's City Hall for The New Yorker magazine for 25 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80 years old and had been ill with pancreatic cancer. For two decades, 
 Frances Mercer, a model who took up acting and went on to appear in films and on Broadway, radio and television, died on Nov. 12 in Los Angeles. She was 85. Born in New Rochelle, N.Y., on Oct. 21, 1915, Ms. Mercer began her modeling career while still a teenager and was a leading mo
 Luise Kraus Addiss, an art-loving New Yorker who was the first person to be a member of the Metropolitan Museum for 75 years, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 101. Mrs. Addiss was 99 when she set that record in 1999, the museum said. She received flowers and an invit
 Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and 
 Ruth Belcher Dyk, one of the last surviving participants in the women's suffrage movement, died in her apartment in Rochester on Nov. 18. She was 99. In a life that included working with delinquent girls, writing three books on psychology and producing anthropological studies of Nav
 Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and 
 Juliet Garretson Hollister, in whose kitchen an interfaith organization called the Temple of Understanding was born 40 years ago, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 84. In 1960, at a time when nuclear Armageddon was not unthinkable, she felt the need to do someth
