 Octavia E. Butler, an internationally acclaimed science fiction writer whose evocative, often troubling, novels explore far-reaching issues of race, sex, power and, ultimately, what it means to be human, died on Friday after a fall near her home in Lake Forest Park, Wash. She was 58.       
 Barbara Guest, a prominent modernist poet who was the only woman to be a member of the famed New York School of poets of the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Feb. 15 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 85. Ms. Guest, who had lived in Berkeley for the last decade, formerly resided in Manhattan an
 Machteld J. Mellink, an archaeologist and authority on ancient sites in Turkey, who became a forceful voice for ending the international trafficking of looted antiquities, died on Feb. 23 in an assisted-living home in Haverford, Pa. She was 88. Dr. Mellink's death was announced by B
 Dana Reeve, who devoted herself to the care of her paralyzed husband, the actor Christopher Reeve, and became a forceful advocate for research into spinal cord injuries, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 44 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y., in West
 Anna Moffo, an American soprano who was beloved for her rosy voice, dramatic vulnerability and exceptional beauty, died on Thursday night at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in New York. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan. She died of a stroke after grappling with complications of brea
 Anna Marly, who wrote the melody to the song that became the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II and whose whistling and singing on the radio were an inspiration to the anti-Nazi underground, died on Feb. 15 in her home in Palmer, Alaska. She was 88. Her death was confir
 Maureen Stapleton, who created a gallery of pugnacious, sometimes profane but always vulnerable heroines on Broadway, in films and on television and who won an Academy Award for her fiery performance as the anarchist Emma Goldman in ''Reds,'' died yesterday at her home in Lenox, Mass. She w
 Ann Calvello, whose bad-girl attitude, madcap makeup, polka-dot hair and savage style of play made her a legend in the flamboyantly indecorous sport-cum-circus that is roller derby, died on Tuesday at a hospital near her home in San Bruno, Calif. She was 76. The cause was liver canc
 Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville. She was 81. No cause of death was announced, b
 Madeleine Pelner Cosman, a prominent writer, scholar and lecturer whose passion for what she called the ''glorious order'' of the past led her first to a career in medieval and Renaissance studies and more recently to wide public advocacy of tougher immigration laws, died on March 2 in Esco
 Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland. She was 82. She died of heart failure, said James Morgan, a former manager
 Nena O'Neill, one half of the husband-and-wife team whose best-selling book ''Open Marriage'' helped spread the youthful sexual revolution of the 1960's to the middle-aged, middle-class Middle America of the 1970's, died on March 9 in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived on the Upper West Side. 
 Cindy Walker, a country songwriter whose pure, plainspoken lyrics of romance, heartbreak and picturesque prairies were recorded by major artists like Bing Crosby, Elvis Presley and Willie Nelson, making Top-40 country or pop charts more than 400 times, died on March 23 in Mexia, Tex.       
 Doris Muscatine, a pioneering chronicler of California's wine and food culture, died Saturday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 80. Her family said she died as a result of injuries suffered in a fall this month. Mrs. Muscatine began writing about food and wine in the 1
