 Naomi Leff, an interior designer who created elegant spaces for celebrities and retailers like Ralph Lauren, Ferragamo, Gucci, Giorgio Armani and Helena Rubinstein, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was complications of liver disease, her fri
 Myriam J. Altman, an appeals judge of the New York State Supreme Court since 1994, died on Jan. 29 at New York University Hospital. She was 65 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications of myelofibrosis, a bone marrow disorder, her family said. Just
 Helen Woodhull, a prominent New York jewelry designer whose work echoed ancient and antique themes in silver, gold and precious stones, died on Jan. 29 at her home in the West Village in Manhattan. She was 65. The death was announced on her Web site, www.woodhulljewelry.com. Andrea 
 Mary Kim Joh, a composer and medical researcher, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan, said her son, Insoo Joh. She was 101. Ms. Joh is best known for ''School Bells,'' a 1945 anthem that must be learned by all students going into grammar school today in South Korea. She was a
 Nathalie Krassovska, a Russian-born ballerina who toured the United States for many years with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and was known for her lyricism, died on Tuesday in Dallas. She was 86. The cause was complications of surgery, said Natalie Skelton of the Dallas Dance Coun
 Connie Scovill Small, known in maritime circles as the First Lady of Light for the decades she spent helping illuminate the night as the wife of a lighthouse keeper on the rugged New England coast, died on Jan. 25 at a nursing home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 103. Her death was anno
 Phyllis W. Meadow, a psychoanalyst who worked to liberalize training and licensing in her field, died on Jan. 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Brookline, Mass., New York City and Dummerston, Vt. The cause was gallbladder cancer, said her daughter, Dr. 
 Beverly Dennis, an actress who played on Broadway, in films and television, most notably on CBS as Red Buttons's wife on ''The Red Buttons Show'' until she was blacklisted in the 1950's, died on Jan. 20 at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 79. The cause was multiple myeloma,
 Dr. Sonja Buckley, a Yale virologist and investigator who helped in 1970 to identify the Lassa virus, a potentially deadly disease that originated in Africa, died on Feb. 2 in Baltimore. She was 86. Dr. Buckley died in a nursing home after a series of strokes, said a close friend, J
 Eleanor Gould Packard, whose questions, comments and admonitions on the proofs of thousands of articles for The New Yorker for 54 years defined for many the care (some writers said obsessiveness) taken in editing the magazine, died Sunday in Manhattan. She was 87. Her death was anno
 Yolanda Garcia, a South Bronx community advocate who forced planners and politicians to rethink how they would rebuild a sprawling swath of the Melrose section, died on Thursday. She was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Yolanda Gonzalez. She was stricken at the o
 Sandra Dee, the perennially perky, blond-haired and blue-eyed actress who helped American teenagers of the late 1950's and early 1960's cope with the frustrations of adolescent romance and the temptations of premarital sex, died yesterday at the Los Robles Hospital and Medical Center in Tho
 Simone Simon, the French actress of near-feline beauty best known to American audiences for her haunting role in the 1942 RKO horror film ''Cat People,'' died on Tuesday in Paris. She was 93. Her death was announced by her friends and family to Agence France-Presse. In ''Cat
 Uli Derickson, the Trans World Airlines flight attendant honored for saving passengers' lives in 1985 by both confronting and mollifying terrorist hijackers, died on Friday at her home in Tucson. She was 60. Ms. Derickson was still working as a flight attendant for Delta Air Lines w
 Gwendolyn Knight, a painter and sculptor from the 1930's who emerged from the shadow of her husband, the painter Jacob Lawrence, late in her life, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Seattle. She was 91. Although Ms. Knight did not begin to exhibit formally until the 1970's and was long 
