 Annie O. Plummer, a housekeeper in Savannah, Ga., whose single-minded campaign to distribute thousands of free dictionaries to needy schoolchildren made her nationally known as ''The Dictionary Lady,'' died Dec. 23 at her home. She was 63. Ms. Plummer died of lung cancer, said Edwar
 Nackey Scripps Loeb, former publisher of two influential conservative newspapers, The Union Leader and The New Hampshire Sunday News of Manchester, N.H., died on Saturday at her home in Goffstown, N.H. She was 75. Her health had deteriorated recently, partly because of complications
 Anne Devenney, the spark plug of community organization who helped keep the tidy, solid neighborhoods of the northwest Bronx from turning into another burned-out urban slum, died Jan. 9 in the Bronx. She was 79. The cause was cancer, her family said. A former resident of Nor
 Catherine M. Rae, a writer who published her first novel at 73, died on Dec. 25 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. She was 85 and lived in Guilford, Conn. Shortly after earning her Ph.D. at 65, Ms. Rae wrote her first book, ''Edith Wharton's New York Quartet,'' a work of litera
 Zilla Lippmann, a philanthropist and past president of New Dramatists, a Manhattan-based theatrical organization that helps playwrights develop new works, died on Dec. 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 95. Mrs. Lippmann, a niece of the Broadway producer John Golden, first worked 
 Hedy Lamarr, the raven-haired Viennese beauty who became one of the reigning temptresses in Hollywood films in the 1930's and 40's, especially as Delilah vamping Victor Mature's Samson, was found dead in her home in Orlando, Fla., yesterday. She was 86. Miss Lamarr was forever ident
 Betty Cage, an administrator of the New York City Ballet who played a quiet but important role in creating the company, died on Dec. 19 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Her title for many years was simply that of general manager, but Ms. Cage was
 Frances Messersmith Miner, who for 43 years nurtured tulips, radishes and children at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Monday in Utica, N.Y., her brother said. She was 94 and lived in a nursing home in nearby Clinton. Miss Miner learned of the Brooklyn children's garden, the first 
 Margarete Schutte-Lihotzky, an Austrian architect known for her work in Weimar Germany and for being jailed for her role in the Austrian resistance against Nazism, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Vienna. She was 102. Peter Scheifinger, president of an organization of Austrian archi
 Hazel Wolf, an ardent environmentalist whose life spanned the 20th century and whose causes encompassed the era's social turmoil, died in Port Angeles, Wash., on Wednesday. She was 101 and lived in Seattle. Since the early 1960's Ms. Wolf was a leader in the Audubon Society, serving
 Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who remained at her husband's side through the darkest days of World War II and was often introduced by him as ''my finest soldier,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 101. Throughout their 27-year marr
 Marian Cowles Botsford, a former executive in the fabric-design and  women's wear fields, died on Dec. 27 at her home in Santa Fe. She was 79. She had a long illness, her family said. Mrs. Botsford was born in Buffalo to Edwin Cowles, an engineer and inventor, and Marian Tom
 Betty Macdonald Batcheller, the last surviving member of Martha Graham's first dance company, died on Jan. 15 at the Greenwich Laurelton Nursing Home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 92. Ms. Batcheller, who danced as Betty Macdonald, met Graham at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester
 Hsieh Ping-ying, a Chinese feminist author known for her autobiographical work, died on Jan. 5 in San Francisco. She was 93. Miss Hsieh moved to San Francisco in the mid-1970's from Taiwan, to which she had fled from mainland China in 1949. Miss Hsieh ''pioneered the literar
 Justice M. Dolores Denman, the first woman to serve as presiding judge in the Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court, died on Jan. 17 at her second home in Naples, Fla. She was 68 and lived in Buffalo. After struggling with cancer for months, she announced in late Decemb
 Margaret Hart Ferraro, a New York stripteaser who went on to become a savvy real estate investor, political wife and society matron in Los Angeles, died on Wednesday after a long illness. She had habitually refused to give her age, but friends said 84 might be close. She was married
 Victoria A. Fromkin, an internationally renowned linguist who gathered the flotsam of human discourse -- slips of the tongue, mishearings and other speech errors -- and used it to illuminate the way in which language is organized in the mind, died on Jan. 19 in Los Angeles. She was 76.     
