 Lillian B. Miller, a Boston butcher's daughter who made American cultural history her oyster and the Peale family of painters her particular pearls, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington. She was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md. Her family said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhag
 Toby Lelyveld, a teacher of literature who specialized in the stage history of Shakespeare's plays, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Her book, ''Shylock on the Stage'' (Western Reserve University, 1960), traced the way the moneylender in ''The Merchant of Venice'
 Kathy Acker, a child of Sutton Place who rose to prominence as a willfully abrasive novelist and performance artist in the post-punk East Village of the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at an alternative cancer treatment center in Tijuana, Mexico. She was 53 and lived in San Francisco.      
 Adelma Grenier Simmons, the author of dozens of books on herbs, died on Wednesday at her home on the Caprilands Herb Farm in Coventry, Conn., which she founded in 1929 and developed into a teaching center and a business. She was 93. Mrs. Simmons, called ''the first lady of herbs'' b
 After Shira A. Scheindlin was appointed to the Federal District Court in Manhattan a few years ago, she told an interviewer for a legal newspaper that she expected to be more of a ''settling judge than a brilliant opinion writer.'' But in case after case these days, Judge Scheindlin
 Adele Ravsky Heller, who with her husband, Lester, bought and nurtured the Provincetown Playhouse in Massachusetts and tried to rebuild it after it burned in 1977, died on Nov. 12 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. She was 75. Mrs. Heller was born in New York City and began 
 Violet Carlson, who amused vaudeville with a comic kid act in the 1910's, then helped keep Broadway musical-comedy audiences laughing through the Roaring Twenties and into the Depression and created the role of Gretchen in the original production of ''The Student Prince,'' died on Wednesday
 Jeannette Edris Rockefeller, a lifelong volunteer and philanthropist, a former First Lady of Arkansas and stepmother of its current Lieutenant Governor, died of heart failure on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had lived for nearly 10 years. She was 79. Mrs. Roc
 Tamara Geva, a Russian-born dancer and actress who was the first wife of the choreographer George Balanchine, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. A sophisticated woman with a wide range of cultural interests, Miss Geva's career took her from ballet to musical comed
 Mildred Mosler Weisenfeld, who helped build an organization for researching blindness, died last Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dr. Kenneth R. Barasch, national president of the Fight for Sight, 
 Abby Lewis, an actress whose long career embraced theater, films, television and radio, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. Ms. Lewis, whose original name was Camelia Albon Lewis, was born in Mesilla Park, N.M. She made her Broadway debut as the Player Queen in a 1
 Rosemarie Rogers, a scholar of international migrations and former academic dean at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, died on Nov. 28 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 61. The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, said her husban
 Janet Annenberg Hooker, whose many philanthropies ranged from the support of musical organizations to the redecoration of The White House and the diplomatic rooms of the State Department in Washington, died Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 93 and had 
 Edna Flannery Kelly, the first woman to represent Brooklyn in Congress and an expert in foreign affairs and social policy, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter in Alexandria, Va. She was 91. A lifelong New Yorker, she had moved to Alexandria in 1982 following a stroke. Mrs. Ke
 Annette Barbara Weiner, an anthropologist and former dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at New York University, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 64 and also had a residence in Wolcott, Vt. The cause was cancer, her family said. Dr. Weine
 Louise Loewenstein Ottinger, a New York philanthropist who supported the arts, community development and family planning, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 98. Mrs. Ottinger, a Chicago native and a graduate of Smith College, was the matriarch of a New York family prom
 Lillian Disney, the widow of Walt Disney and a prominent patron of the arts, died on Tuesday at her home in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles after suffering a stroke on Monday. She was 98. Mrs. Disney, who met Mr. Disney in the 1920's while working at a low-level job at his f
 Sally Marr, the mother of the comedian Lenny Bruce and a primary influence on her son's career, died Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 91 and lived in West Hollywood. Although Ms. Marr was mainly known for encouraging her son as a performer, she was herself a p
 Karen Hubert Allison, who with her husband, Len Allison, lived out every cook's fantasy of turning a home into a restaurant and later earned three stars for the establishment, Huberts, in Manhattan, died on Tuesday in Maui, Hawaii. She was 49 and had lived in Maui since 1995. The ca
 Dawn Steel, the first woman to head a major movie studio and who played a prominent role advancing other women to top jobs in Hollywood, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here. She was 51 and lived in Los Angeles. Charles Roven, Ms. Steel's husband, a film producer, sa
 Esther Peterson, a dogged consumer advocate whose work has an impact on Americans every time they buy a can of soup or a box of laundry detergent, died on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 91. Mrs. Peterson served in the Administrations of John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnso
 Denise Levertov, a poet of intense emotion and fervid political conviction, died on Saturday at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle, where she lived. She was 74. The cause was complications from lymphoma, said Griselda Ohannessian of New Directions, Ms. Levertov's publisher. As 
 Claire Giannini Hoffman, the first woman to serve on the boards of  Bank of America and Sears, Roebuck & Company, died Monday of respiratory failure at her home in San Mateo, Calif., the bank said. She was 92. In 1949 Mrs. Hoffman became a director of the Bank of America, succeeding
 Corinne Roosevelt Alsop Chubb, who helped guide the Victoria Foundation, a family trust that fosters social services, education and the arts in Newark, since its inception in 1934, died on Dec. 9 at her farm in Chester, N.J. She was 85. The Victoria Foundation was established by her
 Marion Bell, who created the leading role of Fiona MacLaren in the original Broadway production of the Alan Jay Lerner-Frederick Loewe musical ''Brigadoon'' in 1947 and then married Mr. Lerner, died on Dec. 14 at the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. She was 78 and lived in Culv
 Margaret Storrs Grierson, the former archivist of Smith College who built its Sophia Smith Collection into an international research center, died on Dec. 12 at the Linda Manor Extended Care Facility in Leeds, Mass. She was 97. Born in Denver, she graduated from Smith in 1922 and ear
 Veronica Geng, an accomplished parodist who spun out biting pieces for The New Yorker based on chance remarks by hapless politicians and the banalities of wedding announcements, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said a friend, Barbara Epstein, editor 
 Ruth G. Weintraub, an early advocate of graduate education for women and a former dean at Hunter College, died Wednesday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side. She was 92. Dr. Weintraub, who also kept a home on Fire Island in Seaview, was a professor of political science at Hun
 Dr. Elizabeth B. Keller, a biochemist who made it easier to understand a basic principle of life because she had the insight to see a cloverleaf where others saw only an infinitesimally small strand of the genetic material called RNA, died on Saturday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rocheste
 Amanda Pirie Warrington, an equestrian, died yesterday at Christiana Hospital in Newark, Del., of injuries she received after falling from her horse while competing at the Fair Hill horse trials in Maryland. She was 29 and lived in Unionville, Pa. Mrs. Warrington was considered  one
 Simone Duvalier, who rose from a childhood of poverty and abandonment to become the wife of one Haitian dictator, mother of another and a power in her own right, died of undisclosed causes in a clinic outside Paris on Friday. She was in her mid-80's and had lived in France since being force
