 Frances B. Sonz, a retired painter and art teacher in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died on April 12 at her home in Tiburon, Calif., where she had lived for 10 years. She was 84. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Sonz grew up in New York City and earned a degree in fine arts 
 Maria Torok, a psychoanalyst in France whose rejection of Freud's ideas was welcomed in feminist circles and whose new methods for confronting pain and trauma drew many Holocaust survivors to her offices in Paris, died on March 25 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 
 Dr. Emily Mudd, a onetime college dropout who trained to be a landscape architect before the trajectory of her life and her own inner fire led her to become a pioneering marriage and family counselor, died on Saturday at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 99 and widely regarded as a giant o
 Nancy Hoepli-Phalon, the editor in chief of the Manhattan-based Foreign Policy Association, died last Thursday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 67. The cause was cancer, her family said. The association is a nonpartisan organization founded in 1918 to educate the pu
 Natasha Gelman, who with her husband, Jacques, amassed an outstandingly fine group of 20th-century European paintings and sculptures and who was a friend and patron of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and many other Mexican painters, died on Saturday at her home in Cuernavaca, Mexico, after a long
 Sybil Connolly, who designed the linen dress that Jacqueline Kennedy wore in her White House portrait and who elevated Irish style to high fashion, died on Wednesday at her home in Dublin. She was 77. She had a heart attack, said a family member, John Connolly. Miss Connolly
 Alice Faye, one of the few movie stars to walk away from stardom at the peak of her career, died yesterday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was in her mid-80's. The cause was cancer, according to her publicity company, Jewel Baxter, which said she had had tw
 Alice Faye, one of the few movie stars to walk away from stardom at the peak of her career, died Saturday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was in her mid-80's. The cause was cancer, according to her spokeswoman, Jewel Baxter, who said she had had two stomach
 Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 Clara Rockmore, a musician who was trained as a violinist but became famous principally as a soloist on the theremin, an early electronic instrument, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. The theremin, invented in 1920 by Leon Theremin, produces a pure, eerie, sliding
 Kerris Ann Wolsky, the president and founding director of Harlem Textile Works, died on May 3 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens. She was 41. The cause was a severe asthma attack, said James Pringle, her companion. Harlem Textile Works began in 1984 as a part of the Chil
 Marjory Stoneman Douglas, the spirited writer and environmentalist who was known as the patron saint of the Florida Everglades for her ceaseless campaign to preserve the fragile wetlands, died yesterday at her home in Miami. She was 108. Mrs. Douglas, who prevailed in recent years o
 Dorothy Donegan, a jazz pianist who brashly mixed swing, boogie-woogie, vaudeville, pop, ragtime and Bach -- sometimes within a span of 10 minutes -- and who was known for an outrageous sense of humor, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 76. The cause was colon cance
 Belle Zeller, an emeritus professor of political science at Brooklyn College and a scholar of the legislative process who was an indomitable leader of unions representing City University of New York professors for more than 30 years, died on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manh
 Loren MacIver, a painter of dreamlike, half-abstract landscapes, city views and close-ups of natural forms, and a close friend of many American poets, including Elizabeth Bishop, E. E. Cummings and Marianne Moore, died on May 3 at her home in Greenwich Village in Manhattan, where she had li
 Nicole Maxwell, a free-spirited San Francisco debutante who plunged into the remote Amazon jungles of Ecuador and Peru and came out with a trove of medicinal plants that she said Indians used to cure virtually every known ailment, died on May 5 in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She
 P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati. She was 91 and lived in Clifton, Ohio. The ca
 Betsy Carden, a former dance teacher at Brooklyn College and a leader in American college dance, died on May 5 at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 68. She died of cancer, said her family. Born in Danville, Va., and educated at Mary Washington College of the University o
 Dorothy Spence Briley, the editor in chief and publisher of Clarion Books and a vice president of the trade and reference division of the Houghton Mifflin Company, died last Sunday at her home in New York City. She was 63. She died of a heart attack, said her daughter, Karen Spence.
