 Dominique de Menil, a connoisseur, art collector and creator with her husband, John, of the Menil Foundation in Houston, died yesterday at her home in Houston. She was 89. Mrs. de Menil and her husband, whose fortune came from oil-well technology, became widely known for commissioni
 Sandra W. Meyer, a pioneering marketing executive who was part of the inspiration for the long-running Broadway drama ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. She was 60 and the cause of death was breast cancer, her family said. Mrs. Meyer held se
 Helen Wills Moody, arguably the most dominant tennis player of the 20th century and the first American-born woman to achieve international celebrity as an athlete, died Thursday at a convalescent home in Carmel, Calif. She was 92 and had been in failing health for several years.    
 Billie Dove, one of the most beautiful stars of silent films, died on Dec. 31 in the hospital of the Motion Picture and Television Fund in Los Angeles. She was 97 and lived in the fund's retirement community. A former Ziegfeld Follies dancer, she played a leading role in dozens of  
 Mae Questel, a rubber-voiced veteran of stage, screen and vaudeville who played Woody Allen's mother in ''New York Stories'' and was the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Ms. Questel was 17 and living in the South Bronx w
 Lia Manoliu, a worldly woman who threw the discus for Romania in six Olympic Games and won the gold medal in 1968, died on Friday in a hospital in Bucharest. She was 65. Hospital officials said the cause was a heart attack. They said she went into a coma on Dec. 31 during surgery fo
 Dr. Jean Trepp McKelvey, who hurdled gender barriers in the field of labor-management mediation and opened the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, died on Jan. 5 at the Kirkhaven Nursing Home in her hometown of Rochester. She was 89. She taught at Sarah L
 Helen Haje, a Washington public relations woman who championed Arab-American interests with such good-natured fervor that she became gadfly and godmother to the Arab-American movement in the United States, died on Monday at a hospital near her home in Washington. She was 74. Her fam
 Lita S. Osmundsen, retired president of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, died last Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. She was 71 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications from pulmonary hypertension, said her husband, Jo
 Harriet Van Horne, a pioneer radio and television critic whose tough-minded crusades for educational programming and against ''women's chatter programs, the vulgar outpourings of the soap opera and the bad taste of commercials'' attracted a wide following in The New York World-Telegram and 
 Esther Wolf Lopato, a child psychologist who was active in civic affairs in Brooklyn and beyond, particularly on behalf of public libraries, died on Jan. 7 at her home in the Midwood neighborhood of Brooklyn. She was 77. She had suffered a long illness, her family said. At h
 Mona May Karff, who won the United States women's chess championship seven times, died on Jan. 10 at her home on Riverside Drive in Manhattan. She was 86 and had been among the first four Americans to attain the rank of international woman master. The cause was heart failure, friend
 Marilyn Costello, the principal harpist of the Philadelphia Orchestra for 46 years and a respected teacher at the Curtis Institute of Music, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Philadelphia. She was 72. The cause was cancer, said Ann Diebold, a spokeswoman for the Curtis Institute.       
 Mary Ingraham Bunting-Smith, the Radcliffe president who sought ways to help educated women carve out careers in a society not yet transformed by the feminist movement and became a mentor to several female writers, performers and scholars, died on Wednesday at Kendal at Hanover, a continuin
 Dr. Alma Hawkins, a pioneering modern-dance educator who founded the dance department at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Jan. 8 at her home in Santa Monica. She was 94. Born in Rolla, Mo., Dr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Missouri and went on to stud
 Sister Bernadette Szymczak, who fought hunger and despair with such loving zeal that she turned a tiny Brooklyn food program into a mighty engine of sustenance and hope, died Monday at Long Island College Hospital. She was 76 and, until six months ago, had been getting up at 5 A.M. to stir 
 Paulina Ruvinska, a pianist known for her vigorous technique and the breadth of her repertory, died on Jan. 17 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Ms. Ruvinska was born to a family of musicians in New York in 1912, and studied the piano privately with Clarence Adler. The pianist a
 Paulina Ruvinska, a pianist known for her vigorous technique and the breadth of her repertory, died on Jan. 17 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Ms. Ruvinska was born to a family of musicians in New York in 1912, and studied the piano privately with Clarence Adler. The p
 Rell Sunn, the Hawaiian surfer who skimmed across the waves with such sure and natural grace that she sometimes seemed at one with the sea, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Makaha on the island of Oahu. She was 47. Ms. Sunn won international fame as a surfing champion and captured the 
 Carole Kent Kneeland, vice president for news at KVUE-TV in Austin, Tex., and one of the first television news directors to de-emphasize sensational crime and introduce ''truth tests'' in news reports about political advertising, died on Monday at her home in Austin. She was 49. She
 Dorothy Hart Hirshon, a glamorous figure in New York society from the 1920's through the 40's who later became active in social, human rights and political causes, died Thursday in an automobile accident while driving near her home in Glen Cove, on Long Island. She was 89. Frequentl
