 Eleanor Lambert, whose tireless promotion of American fashion gave the industry an international presence and helped to elevate it from rag trade to respectability, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 100. Often referred to as the Empress of Seven
 Lady Donaldson, the first woman to be lord mayor of London in the 800-year history of the office, died on Saturday at a hospice near her family home in Lymington, England. She was 82. For one term in 1983, Lady Donaldson held the highest title of the City of London. In 1981 and 1982
 Carolyn G. Heilbrun, a retired Columbia University literary scholar whose extensive writings included pioneering books and essays in the feminist canon and a dozen highly erudite detective novels under the pseudonym Amanda Cross, died at her home in Manhattan on Thursday. She was 77.       
 Thalia Mara, a ballet educator who helped found the USA International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., died on Wednesday at St. Dominic/Jackson Memorial Hospital. She was 92 and lived in Jackson. Born in Chicago to Russian parents, Ms. Mara trained with some of the great ballet
 Joan B. Kroc, a prominent philanthropist, a former owner of the San Diego Padres and the widow of Ray A. Kroc, the founder and chairman of the McDonald's Corporation, died on Sunday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. She was 75. The cause was brain cancer, a spokesman said. In 1
 Shirley P. Glass, a psychologist who strove to redefine the nature of infidelity, died on Oct. 8 at her home in Owings Mills, Md.. She was 67. The cause was cancer, said Ira Glass, her son and the producer of ''This American Life'' on public radio stations. In magazine artic
 Dr. Beatrice Blyth Whiting, an anthropologist at Harvard and an expert on the influence of culture on personality, died on Sept. 29 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 89. Dr. Whiting and her husband, Dr. John W. M. Whiting, a fellow Harvard anthropologist, traveled extensively to study par
 Marie Marcus, a jazz pianist who was a protégée of Fats Waller and appeared on Manhattan's 52nd Street, the prewar epicenter of jazz, before becoming a summer fixture in nightclubs on Cape Cod, died on Oct. 10 in Hyannis, Mass. She was 89. In a book about jazz personalities, ''Bar
 Janice Rule, an actress in film and onstage who became a psychoanalyst late in her career, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. Born in Norwood, Ohio, Ms. Rule studied ballet and began dancing in Chicago nightclubs in her teens. She soon attracted attention in Hollyw
 Louise Day Hicks, the Boston public school official and City Council member whose opposition to busing to achieve school integration helped to polarize the city in the 1960's and made her a national symbol of racial division, died on Tuesday at her home in South Boston. She was 87. 
 Margaret E. Murie, a conservationist and an author who helped preserve millions of acres of unspoiled land in Alaska and across the United States by encouraging the creation of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the passage of the Wilderness Act, died on Sunday at her ranch in Moose, W
 Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 60 and had homes in Manhattan; Millbrook, N.Y.; and Moose, Wyo. The cause was complications of ovarian cancer,
 Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal player in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in New York City,
 Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal figure in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in Manhattan, the
 Rosalie Allen, who came out of Pennsylvania coal country to become a popular singing cowgirl and yodeler in New York, where she was also the city's only country D.J. for a while, died on Sept. 23 in Palmdale, Calif. She was 79. The cause was heart failure that followed diabetes and 
 Dr. Margaret A. Johns, who showed that pheromones can set off hormonal changes in mammals when they activate receptors in a tiny nasal cavity, a process that can attract animals of the opposite sex, died Saturday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 75. The cause was a heart
 Wendy Marx, who became the spokeswoman of a foundation named for her after being saved by a liver transplant, died on Tuesday in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 36 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was hepatitis B, which once again flared in Ms. Marx's system and attacked her liver, h
