 Gloria Cestero Diaz, a champion of New York's Puerto Rican community since its early days some 60 years ago, died on Oct. 24 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged. A resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, she was 87. Starting in 1936, Mrs. Diaz set out to aid jobless P
 Helen Wright Greuter, an astronomer and author, died on Oct. 23 at the Thomas House Retirement Home in her native Washington. She was 82. The cause was heart failure, her family said. Ms. Wright, who used her family's name professionally, worked as an astronomer before she t
 Carol Clark Tatkon, a former senior vice president for Exxon U.S.A., died on Oct. 11 at a family home in North Egremont, Mass. Mrs. Tatkon, a resident of Houston, was 59. The cause of death was cancer, said her daughter, Heather Tatkon Powers. Mrs. Tatkon joined Exxon in 196
 Eleanor Harris Howard, an author, playwright and socialite, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. Her sister, Jean Bankier, said the cause was Parkinson's disease. Mrs. Howard, the wife of Jack R. Howard, the former chairman of Scripps Howard Broadcasting Co
 Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69. Mrs. Meyner was born into a pro
 Toni Carabillo, a leader and historian of the modern feminist movement, died on Oct. 28 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said Susie Gilligan of Feminist Majority, a national group that Ms. Carabillo helped found 10 years ago. Ms. Carabillo, 
 Francine Katzenbogen, a Brooklyn-born lottery millionaire who loved cats so much she worked tirelessly for animal adoption agencies, donated generously to their support and housed 20 beloved strays in luxury at her own suburban Los Angeles mansion, died on Oct. 30 at her home in Studio City
 Claire Falkenstein, an American sculptor known for both abstract and functional works, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Venice, Calif. She was 89 and had lived in Venice since 1963, after spending more than a decade in Europe. Claire Falkenstein was born in 1908 in Coos Bay, Ore., and
 Ruth Goode, who wrote about subjects as disparate as the scenic attractions of Maine, advancements in medicine and the life of the impresario Sol Hurok, died on Oct. 27 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Beginning in 1933, Ms
 Louise Campbell, a screen and stage actress, died on Wednesday in Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. She was 86. Ms. Campbell appeared with Ray Milland and Fred MacMurray in ''Men With Wings,'' a 1938 film about the early days of aviation. She also acted in ''The Buccaneer'' (1938) 
 Margaret Harshaw, an American soprano and mezzo-soprano who was best known as a Wagnerian singer but whose performances in Mozart and Verdi operas were also highly regarded, died on Friday at Condell Memorial Hospital in Libertyville, Ill. She was 88 and lived in Lake Forest, Ill. M
 Miriam Phillips, an actress on Broadway and in regional theaters for more than four decades, died on Oct. 24 at the Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 98. Ms. Phillips, a native of Philadelphia, began her career at the Hedgerow Theater in Rose Valley, Pa., in 1924. There she pe
 Lillian Rogers Parks, who surprised President William Howard Taft in his bedroom in 1909 and lived to tell that and many another juicy White House tale, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington. She was 100 and the writer of ''My Thirty Years Backstairs at the White House.'' The
 Helen Nichols Church, a pioneering nutritionist who began her career telling Howard Johnson what to serve at his very first restaurant and ended it as the last word on the nutritional content of more than 8,000 popular foods, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lakewood, N.J. She was 95 and
 Annie Dodge Wauneka, who broke custom and became the Navajo Nation's first female legislator and a health crusader, died on Monday at Flagstaff Medical Center in Arizona. She was 87 and lived in Klagetoh, in northeast Arizona. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said Ted Rushton, a s
 Catharine Carver, who won trans-Atlantic esteem as the editor of a galaxy of mid-20th century authors, including Hannah Arendt, John Berryman, Saul Bellow and Flannery O'Connor, died on Tuesday at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London. Ms. Carver, an American who lived in London, w
 Penny Binn Binstock, a clinical psychologist, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York from injuries she suffered in a fall. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan. She never regained consciousness after falling on Nov. 8, said her son Jason Binn of South 
 Helen Harvey, a New York theatrical agent who in her 50-year career represented some of the most important playwrights, directors and designers, died on Monday at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut. She was 81 and lived in New Milford, Conn. For many years at the William Morris Agency
 Joyce Wethered, an elegant Englishwoman described by ''The Encyclopedia of Golf'' as ''the supreme woman golfer of her age, perhaps of all time,'' died last Tuesday, the day after her 96th birthday. The Times of London agreed with that assessment. It said Wethered was ''the most sty
 Mary Brooks Griswold, who served four terms in the Connecticut legislature after the death of her husband, A. Whitney Griswold, a Yale University president, died on Nov. 15 at Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass. She was 91, and lived in New Haven. She was a native of Scranton, Pa., 
 The French singer and songwriter known simply as Barbara, who earned a huge following in the French-speaking world for her melancholic lyrics and melodies, died on Monday in the American Hospital in Paris. She was 67. Doctors gave the cause as acute pulmonary infection. A sl
 Rella MacDougall, a prominent decorator who was the longtime chairwoman of the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Show House, died on Wednesday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 91. The cause was cancer, said Harry Hinson, the fabric designer, who was a longtime friend.    
 Marguerite Henry, the author of the children's book classic ''Misty of Chincoteague,'' one of some four dozen books that introduced young readers to animals in the great outdoors, died on Wednesday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, near San Diego. She was 95. While much of her work as
 Dr. Sigrid Phyllis Stearner, who studied the biological effects of radiation and campaigned for career opportunities for scientists with disabilities, died on Nov. 17 at the Illinois Independent Living Center at Naperville, Ill. She was 78. The cause was pneumonia, friends said.    
