Lola L. Szladits, the renowned curator of the New York Public Library's Berg Collection of English and American Literature, who expanded the collection to include original manuscripts that ranged from W. B. Yeats to S. J. Perelman and Saul Bellow, died of cancer Friday night at her ho
Sister Thea Bowman, a nationally active black educator who with song, prayer and persistent exhortation urged the Roman Catholic Church to embrace the culture of African Americans, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Canton, Miss. She was 52 years old. Sister Thea Bowman, 
Barbara Burnett Gratwick, a teacher who was the widow of Dr. Mitchell Gratwick, former headmaster of the Horace Mann School in Manhattan, died of pneumonia on Saturday at the Saddleback Memorial Medical Center in Laguna Hills, Calif., while visiting her children. She was 83 years old 
Katharine Balfour, an actress and writer, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also called Lou Gehrig's disease, at her home in Manhattan yesterday. She was 69 years old. Katharine Balfour, an actress and writer, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also called Lou Gehrig'
Sarah Vaughan, a singer who brought an operatic splendor to her performances of popular standards and jazz, died of lung cancer on Tuesday at her home in the Los Angeles suburb of Hidden Hills. She was 66 years old. Sarah Vaughan, a singer who brought an operatic splendor to h
Dr. Mystical Del Giorno, a chiropractor, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 54 years old and also lived on Fire Island, L.I. Dr. Mystical Del Giorno, a chiropractor, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 54 years old and also lived on Fire Island, L.
Anne Rice Squiccimarro, a professor and an administrator of Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died of breast cancer on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 55 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson. Anne Rice Squiccimarro, a professor and an administrator of
Nancy Lady Keith, a legendary beauty and participant in the social scene of New York and Hollywood, died of heart failure yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Nancy Lady Keith, a legendary beauty and participant in the social scene of Ne
Jacqueline Wolf Bernstein, a writer and a member of the board of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, a child-advocacy group, died of cancer on Thursday at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 73 years old. Jacqueline Wolf Bernstein, a writer and a member of the board of 
Marcia R. Richman, a lawyer who specialized in juvenile justice, died of cancer on Monday at her home in Short Hills, N.J. She was 55 years old. Marcia R. Richman, a lawyer who specialized in juvenile justice, died of cancer on Monday at her home in Short Hills, N.J. She was 5
Alma Sioux Scarberry, a novelist, songwriter, reporter and an entertainer whose career spanned more than seven decades, died of a stroke on Tuesday at a San Antonio nursing home. She was 90 years old. Alma Sioux Scarberry, a novelist, songwriter, reporter and an entertainer wh
Greta Garbo, the enigmatic and elusive star of some of Hollywood's most memorable romantic movies of the 1930's and a 50-year focus of curiosity and myth, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84 years old. Greta Garbo, the enigmatic and elusive star of som
Funeral services for Greta Garbo, who died on Sunday at New York Hospital at the age of 84, were conducted in private yesterday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home in Manhattan. Funeral services for Greta Garbo, who died on Sunday at New York Hospital at the age of 84, were 
Helene Pons, a leading costume designer for almost four decades until her retirement in 1965, died of kidney problems yesterday at a private clinic in Rome. She was within two weeks of her 92d birthday. Helene Pons, a leading costume designer for almost four decades until her 
Margaret Carnegie Miller, the only child of Andrew Carnegie, the steel manufacturer and philanthropist, died on April 11 at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 93 years old. Margaret Carnegie Miller, the only child of Andrew Carnegie, the steel manufacturer and philanthropist
Marjorie Weil, who devised a way to mass produce Melba toast in 1932 and was honorary chairman of the Devonsheer Melba Corporation when she retired in 1975, died in her sleep on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old. Marjorie Weil, who devised a way to
May Morgan Robinson, a leader in civil rights and in the Democratic Party in Westchester, died of cancer of the uterus on Thursday at her home in Yonkers. She was 85 years old. May Morgan Robinson, a leader in civil rights and in the Democratic Party in Westchester, died of ca
Lillian H. Planer, a radio and screen writer in the 1940's, died after a long illness on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 86 years old. Lillian H. Planer, a radio and screen writer in the 1940's, died after a long illness on Friday at her home on
Evelyn K. Hill, who operated souvenir and food concessions at the Statue of Liberty for more than half a century, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Yonkers. She was 88 years old and lived in the Bronx. Evelyn K. Hill, who operated souvenir and 
Miriam Witkin, a soprano who sang on several New York stations in the early days of radio and who gave concerts at Aeolian and Chickering Halls, died in her sleep on Sunday at a family home in Bridgewater, Conn., after a brief illness. She was 97 years old. Miriam Witkin, a so
Paulette Goddard, a vivacious film actress adept at playing both sophisticated comedy and sultry melodrama, died of heart failure yesterday at her home outside the Swiss resort of Ronco overlooking Lake Maggiore. Her age was usually listed as 78. Paulette Goddard, a vivacious 
Gerte Willner, a retired New York City ophthalmologist, died of a respiratory ailment on Sunday in Booth Memorial Hospital in Queens. She was 95 years old and lived in Queens. Gerte Willner, a retired New York City ophthalmologist, died of a respiratory ailment on Sunday in Bo
Verda Freeman Welcome, who was the first black woman to become a state senator in Maryland, died in a Baltimore hospital on Sunday after a series of strokes. She was 83 years old. Verda Freeman Welcome, who was the first black woman to become a state senator in Maryland, died 
Catherine M. Quigley, the Mayor of this Camden County community of about 5,000 people since 1986 died of cancer on Monday at her home here. She was 59 years old. Catherine M. Quigley, the Mayor of this Camden County community of about 5,000 people since 1986 died of cancer on 
Geraldine Murphy, a professor of English at Wesleyan University who was the first female faculty member promoted to a tenured position, died last Friday at a hospital in Florence. She was 70 years old. Professor Murphy fell while traveling on a break and lapsed into a coma, the univer
Alice Lake, a writer whose specialty was health and education issues, died Wednesday at New York Hospital from complications following surgery for lung cancer. She was 73 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y. Alice Lake, a writer whose specialty was health and education issues
Carolyn Wolsey Ferriday, a philanthropist who helped to bring some Polish women who had been used by the Nazis for medical experiments, to the United States for treatment, died Tuesday at her home in Bethlehem, Conn., after a long illness. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan a
Irma Seeman Goldberg, a longtime hospital volunteer and the widow of Rube Goldberg, the Pulitzer-Prize winning cartoonist, died of a heart attack yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irma Seeman Goldberg, a longtime hospital volunteer 
Charlotte Boschan, an economist who established the first electronic data bank in the field when she was associated with the National Bureau of Economic Research a quarter-century ago, died of complications of surgery on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 70 years old and lived 
Bella Spewack, co-author with her late husband, Samuel, of a string of wacky comedies for Broadway and film - including such hits as ''Boy Meets Girl'' and the Tony Award-winning ''Kiss Me, Kate'' - died Friday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 years old. Bella Spewac
