 Evelyn Fortune Bartlett, an art patron who was a major benefactor of the Art Institute of Chicago, died on Tuesday at her home in Beverly, Mass. She was 109. Alert until a few weeks ago, Mrs. Bartlett was also an ardent gardener and farmer, something of an eccentric and a master of 
 Annie Fratellini, who wiggled, waddled and waltzed through big tops in Europe before she opened a college for aspiring circus performers who wanted to follow in her outsized, floppy footsteps, died on Tuesday in Paris. She was 64. The cause was cancer. The National Circus School, wh
 Frances Keene, a writer, translator and educator who specialized in the Romance languages, died on June 26 at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. She was 83 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her son Adriano Valentino. Ms. Keene's translat
 Rosina Lawrence, whose brief but bright film career still flickers on the home screen in the ''Our Gang,''  ''Little Rascals'' and Laurel and Hardy classics, died on June 23 at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 84 and lived in Brooklyn and on Mackinac Island, Mich. Miss Lawrence, who wa
 Sanjukta Panigrahi, a classical dancer from India who toured the United States as a foremost exponent of the Orissi style, died on June 24 at her home in Bhubaneshwar in the Indian state of Orissa. She was 65. She died of cancer, said the Indian dancer Indrani, who lives and teaches
 Dorothy Buffum Chandler, whose vision and fund-raising fervor helped transform modern Los Angeles and who as the wife and mother of successive publishers helped turn The Los Angeles Times into one of the nation's great newspapers, died on Sunday at a rest home in Hollywood. She was 96.     
 Mumeo Oku, a pioneer in Japan's consumer movement and an early campaigner for women's rights, died on Monday at her Tokyo home. She was 101. Mrs. Oku founded the Housewives' Association, one of Japan's first and best-known consumer groups, and remained its leader for decades. She al
 Roberta Gorsuch Burke, one of America's best known military wives who was affectionately known as ''the first lady of the United States Navy,'' died on Friday at her home in Fairfax, Va. She was 98. Mrs. Burke was the widow of Adm. Arleigh A. Burke, who was Chief of Naval Operations
 Elizabeth Jennings Howell, a fund-raiser and volunteer at such New York institutions as Goddard Riverside Community Center and International House, died on Monday at her home in Washington Crossing, Pa. She was 84 and a former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. Betsy Howell, as sh
 Alexandra Danilova, an internationally popular ballet star known for her vivacity and theatrical flair, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. Beloved by audiences in a performing career that extended from the Imperial Russian Ballet of St. Petersburg to Sergei Diaghil
 Rachel Gillett Fruchter, the Brooklyn biochemist who died in a bicycle accident on Saturday, was known for her research in gynecological cancer, as well as her commitment to women's health issues. She was 57 and lived in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. Dr. Fruchter was killed wh
 Meribeth Elliott Cameron, professor emeritus of history and former acting president at Mount Holyoke College, died on Saturday at Mount Holyoke Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 92 and lived in South Hadley, Mass. A scholar of modern Chinese history, Dr. Cameron was on the Mount Ho
 Madelon DeVoe Talley, an investment manager who was one of Wall Street's first female executives, died Friday in a car accident near Wyndam, N.Y., her husband, Truman M. Talley, said. She was 65. Despite a longtime interest in finance, Mrs. Talley did not begin her career until 1969
 Mary Jane Brown, a tap dancer who taught at the Juilliard School, died on July 12 at the Gilchrist Center for Hospice Care in Baltimore. She was 80 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Carol Hess-Vait. The daughter of a vaudeville house manager, M
 Joan Heming Frank, a television producer who worked on the original ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' drama series in the 1950's and 60's when the performances were broadcast live from a studio in Brooklyn, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 77. The ca
 Mattie Lou O'Kelley, who began painting as a hobby at the age of 60 and became a celebrated folk artist of rural Southern life, died on Saturday at her home in Decatur, Ga. She was 89. In her art, she pictured nostalgic views of the Georgia countryside she knew in her childhood in t
