 Eleanor Holm Whalen, an Olympic swimming champion who was expelled from the 1936 Berlin Games in a headline-making drinking episode that brought her a second career as a slightly notorious but glamorous show-business figure, died Saturday at her home in Miami. The cause was kidney f
 Mary A. Gardner, a journalism professor whose teaching had a strong influence on contemporary journalism in Mexico and Latin America, died Jan. 22 in East Lansing, Mich., her sister-in-law, Donna Gardner, said. She was 83. Dr. Gardner's influence in Mexico stemmed from her connectio
 Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a classical repertory actress who won critical acclaim for her many roles Off Broadway, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Newcastle, Me. She was 77 and formerly lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Dorothy Lee, a friend and her executor. 
 Barbara Gamarekian, a former reporter on the arts and Washington society for The New York Times who was previously a press aide in the Kennedy and Johnson White Houses, died yesterday in Washington. She was 78. The cause was peritoneal cancer, said a niece, Rachel Hughes. Ms
 M. M. Kaye, the British writer and illustrator, who wrote ''The Far Pavilions,'' a luxuriant evocation of her upbringing in the India of the British Raj, died last Thursday. She was 95 and lived in Suffolk, England. Her death was announced Tuesday by her New York agents, Harold Ober
 Trude Wenzel Lash, inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt to become a children's advocate through the Citizens Commission for Children of New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village, her family said. She was 95. Mrs. Lash was an early mainstay of the commission, which Mrs. R
 Gail Hall Zarr, a former managing editor of the Zagat Surveys series of  restaurant, hotel and travel guides, died last Saturday at her home in  Manhattan. She was 50. The cause was complications of uterine cancer, said her husband, Gary Zarr. Mrs. Zarr began working at Zagat in 199
 Jill Kornblee, an art dealer whose Manhattan gallery handled the work of many well-known contemporary artists early in their careers, died on Jan. 29 in Branford, Conn. She was 84 and lived in Weston, Conn. The cause was cancer, said her daughter Elisabeth Kornblee. Born in 
 May O'Donnell, an early Martha Graham principal dancer and a modern-dance choreographer and teacher, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 97. Her death was reported by Marian Horosko, who is writing a book about her. The serene Ms. O'Donnell might have served as 
 Frances Partridge, the last of the spectacularly talented and irreverent group of British writers and artists who coalesced as the Bloomsbury group in the years before World War I, died in London on Feb. 5. She was 103. Ms. Partridge's death was announced by her literary agency, Rog
 Susan Schechter, whose books about domestic violence helped to unify the movement to assist battered women and to bridge the gap between programs addressing domestic abuse and those for children's welfare, died Feb. 3 at her home in Iowa City. She was 57. The cause was endometrial c
 Jan Miner, who had a long career on the New York stage but was best known as Madge the Manicurist in Palmolive commercials, died on Sunday in Bethel, Conn. She was 86 and lived in nearby Southbury. She had been in failing health for several years and died at the Bethel Health Care F
 MARIE C. WILSON, the president of the Ms. Foundation for Women, has the comportment of a seasoned politician. One of the sharper ones. She speaks with passion and laser-beam focus in a soft Georgia accent. Perhaps this impression is enhanced by that snappy red blazer, so bold and camera rea
 Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. She was 42 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, the co
 Doris Troy, the big-voiced soul singer of the 1963 hit ''Just One Look,'' whose life story was the inspiration for the long-running musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Las Vegas. She was 67 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was emphysema, said Ken Wydro
 Sister Doris Smith, who was president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx from 1973 to 1992, died on Thursday. She was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sister Eileen McGrory, a member of her religious order, the Congregation of the Sisters of Charity of St. Vin
 Irma Fleck, a physician's wife who looked at the vacant lots and abandoned buildings of her South Bronx neighborhood and retaliated by starting organizations to celebrate art and turn rubble piles into emerald oases, died on Feb. 11 in Naples, Fla. She was 84 and lived in Naples.   
 Estelle Stewart Axton, whose name put the ''Ax'' in Stax Records, the Memphis soul label she founded with her brother, died on Tuesday in Memphis. She was 85. She died at the St. Francis Nursing Home after a series of strokes, said Deanie Parker, the president and chief executive of
 Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 40.        
