Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. Marion Rosenwald Ascol
Ruth Cheney Streeter, who commanded the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II, died on Sunday at her home in Morristown, N.J., two days before her 95th birthday. Ruth Cheney Streeter, who commanded the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II, died on Sunday at her 
Dorothy Perkins Freeman, who in 1960 donated her family estate in the Riverdale section of the Bronx to New York City to establish the Wave Hill arboretum and cultural center, died on Sunday at Miles Memorial Hospital in Damariscotta, Me. She was 99 years old and lived in Damariscotta
Joan M. Alvarez, a television producer who in 1979 shared an Emmy Award for a documentary titled ''Angela's Island,'' died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 68 years old. Joan M. Alvarez, a television producer who in 1979 shared an Emmy Award for a documentary titled
Sonia Yuspeh, an advertising and marketing consultant, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sonia Yuspeh, an advertising and marketing consultant, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 62 years o
Helen D. Johnson, the retired president of the Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 70 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Spring Lake, N.J. Helen D. Johnson, the retired president of the Charles
Eleanor Steber, a leading soprano at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's who was particularly noted for her Mozart and Strauss roles, died yesterday morning at the Attleboro Nursing Home in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old. She died of congestive heart failure, said h
Ruth Wittenberg, who led fights to preserve historic buildings in Greenwich Village, including the Jefferson Market Courthouse, died in her sleep on Monday at her home on West 10th Street, where she had lived for 65 years. She was 91 years old. Ruth Wittenberg, who led fights 
Agatha Moran Leather, a retired teacher, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old and also had a home in Westhampton Beach, L.I. Agatha Moran Leather, a retired teacher, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old and also had a home in W
Beatrice Behrman, an innovative doll maker who founded the Alexander Doll Company in Manhattan and owned it for 65 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 95 years old.  She died in her sleep, a spokesman for the company said. Beatrice Behrman, an inno
Bertha Lindsay, the last surviving eldress of the United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Coming, known as the Shaker Society, died Wednesday at her home at Shaker Village in Canterbury, N.H. She was 93 years old. Bertha Lindsay, the last surviving eldress of the United
Florence Bonime, a novelist who taught fiction writing at the New School for Social Research for 10 years in the 1960's and 70's, died in her sleep on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83 years old. Florence Bonime, a novelist who taught fiction writing at the New Scho
Lilian Thomson Mowrer, author of books about Europe on the eve of World War II, died Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 101 years old. Lilian Thomson Mowrer, author of books about Europe on the eve of World War II, died Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 101 years old.
Betty Walberg, a composer, arranger and pianist for ballet, Broadway and modern-dance choreographers, including Jerome Robbins, died Wednesday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 69 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Miss Walberg, a lecturer in the division of dance at the 
Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Mayor of Princeton and a member of one of the nation's best-known political families, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 51 years old. Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Mayor of Princeton and a member of one of the nation's best
Estelle Stein Hartman, a volunteer in organizations in the Hartford area, died on Monday at her home in West Hartford, Conn. She was 96 years old. Estelle Stein Hartman, a volunteer in organizations in the Hartford area, died on Monday at her home in West Hartford, Conn. She w
Olya Margolin, the Washington representative of the National Council of Jewish Women for more than 30 years before her retirement in 1978, died yesterday at the Washington Hospital Center. She was 81 years old and lived in Washington. Olya Margolin, the Washington representati
Dr. Niusia Shimrat, a child psychologist with Mount Sinai Medical Center for two decades before retiring in 1985, died on Saturday at the Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Niusia Shimrat, a child psychologist with Mo
Elizabeth Parke Firestone, widow of the industrialist Harvey S. Firestone Jr. and a collector of 18th-century decorative arts, died Saturday at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. She was 93 years old and lived in Newport. The cause of death was not disclosed.  Mrs. Firestone was an hon
Marguerite Falkenburg Wagstaff, a painter and a former tennis champion in Brazil, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 years old. She died of pneumonia, her family said. Mrs. Wagstaff, who was known as Mickey, met her first husband, Eugene Falkenburg, on a tennis court 
Daisy Wilson Cave, the last known Confederate widow of the Civil War, died Saturday at a nursing home here. She was estimated to have been 97 to 105 years old. Daisy Wilson Cave, the last known Confederate widow of the Civil War, died Saturday at a nursing home here. She was e
Delphine Seyrig, an actress and feminist whose celebrity stemmed from her first film performance, in ''Last Year at Marienbad'' in 1961, died on Monday in Paris. She was 58 years old. Delphine Seyrig, an actress and feminist whose celebrity stemmed from her first film performa
Hortense Hirsch, a volunteer for social-welfare, educational and civic organizations and a trustee of Mount Sinai Medical Center for more than half a century, died on Tuesday at her suite in the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan. She was 103 years old. During a career as a volunteer that bega
Corinna Reiman Marsh, an editor and a writer of verse and children's books, died on Monday at New York Hospital. She was 98 years and old and had lived in an apartment at Le Marquis Hotel on East 31st Street for more than 40 years before moving earlier this year to the Mary Manning Wa
Dr. Jane Bennett Ross, an anthropologist, died on Oct. 11 at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Jane Bennett Ross, an anthropologist, died on Oct. 11 at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 44 years old a
Teresa De Francisci, who was the model for Miss Liberty on the Peace Dollar of 1921, died Saturday morning at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan. Teresa De Francisci, who was the model for Miss Liberty on the Peace Dollar of 1921, died Saturday mor
 Teresa De Francisci, who was the model for Miss Liberty on the Peace Dollar of 1921, died on Saturday morning at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of respiratory failure following surgery, her daughter said. Mrs. De Francisci's stylize
 Colette Audry, a prize-winning novelist, screenwriter and critic, died on Saturday at Issy-les-Moulineaux southwest of Paris, her family reported. She was 84 years old. No cause of death was given. Miss Audry received wide acclaim in 1946 for her screenplay for the film "The
 A. Louise Brush, a retired psychiatrist, died on Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. She was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich. Dr. Brush died of pneumonia, her sister, Ruth Seaman Brush of Boston, said. A life fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, Dr. 
 Dr. Joan Arboit, a pediatrician, died on Friday at her home in Verona, N.J. She was 54 years old and also lived at Barnegat Light, N.J. She died of breast cancer, a family spokesman said. Dr. Arboit was director of pediatric nephrology at Newark Beth Israel Hospital. Since 1
 Joan Brown, an artist and professor of art at the University of California at Berkeley, was killed on Friday in an accident in Proddatura, India. She was 52 years old and lived in San Francisco. The accident occurred while Ms. Brown, who in recent years was known for her use of imag
 Barbara Creaturo, a senior editor at Cosmopolitan magazine, died on Saturday at Doctor's Hospital. She was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Creaturo died of ovarian cancer, a spokeswoman for the magazine said. She was with the magazine for 22 years. She also worked a
