 Selena, the 23-year-old reigning queen of the Tejano music world, was shot and killed today at a Corpus Christi motel. Shortly after 9:30 P.M. a 32-year-old woman identified by the young singer's father as the former president of her fan club abruptly surrendered after keeping the p
 Katherine Squire, an actress who had a long career on Broadway and in regional theater, movies and television, died on March 29 in Lake Hill, N.Y. She was 92. Born in Defiance, Ohio, she graduated from Ohio Wesleyan and began her career at the Cleveland Play House. After studying at
 Ruth Caridad Silva, a political scientist and authority on Presidential succession and legislative apportionment, died on Saturday at Centre Community Hospital in State College, Pa. She was 74 and lived in State College. She suffered a brief illness, said the Koch Funeral Home in St
 Vita R. Ostrander, a former president of the American Association of Retired Persons who helped make the health care system a major national issue a decade before last year's debate on overhauling it, died on Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta. She was 72 and lived in suburban Dec
 Janet Mathews Fitchen, a cultural anthropologist who studied rural poverty in the United States, died on Saturday at her home in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 58. The cause was a brain tumor, her family said. Dr. Fitchen brought the eye of an anthropologist and her profession's ethno
 Marlene Lopez, who was a director of state psychiatric hospitals in New Jersey and New York for 15 years, died on Sunday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. She was 55 and lived in Manhattan and Hillsdale, N.Y. She had been undergoing treatment for cancer for two years, h
 Marlene Lopez, who was a director of state psychiatric hospitals in New Jersey and New York for 15 years, died last Sunday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. She was 55 and lived in Manhattan and Hillsdale, N.Y. She had been undergoing treatment for cancer for two years,
 Ellen Hermanson, a crusader in the battle against breast cancer, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 42 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. The disease was diagnosed in Ms. Hermanson in 1989, six mo
 Annie Fischer, a Hungarian pianist known for the elegance of her Mozart performances and her vital, prismatic approach to early Romantic repertory, died on Monday at her home in Budapest. She was 81. Miss Fischer was a pianist who played with an intensity of concentration and focus 
 Bonnie Bird, a Martha Graham dancer in the 1930's and an internationally known teacher, died on Sunday at her home in Tiburon, Calif. She was 80. The cause was cancer said Marion North, a friend and colleague. Miss Bird was born in Portland, Ore., and was educated at the Cor
 Jo Sinclair, who wrote about the struggles of immigrant families in America, died on April 4 at her home in Jenkintown, Pa. She was 81. The cause was cancer, said Joan Soffer, her companion. Ms. Sinclair, whose original name was Ruth Seid, was born in Brooklyn and moved to C
 Madeleine Herling, a businesswoman and philanthropist, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. She was 75. Besides her home in Manhattan, she had residences in Miami Beach, Zurich and Sao Paolo, Brazil. The cause was complications from leukemia, a spokesman for 
 Diane Cleaver, a literary agent and author, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 53. A spokeswoman for the Medical Examiner's office said the cause of death had not yet been established. But Heide Lange, vice president of the Sanford J. Greenburger agency, with whic
 Yvette Hawkins, a stage, film and television actress, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 54. The cause was lung cancer, the hospital said. Ms. Hawkins appeared on Broadway in "The Amen Corner," "Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death" and "C
 Ludmilla B. Turkevich, an expert in Russian language and literature who was the first woman to teach at Princeton and then spent 18 years as chairwoman of the Russian department at Douglass College of Rutgers University, died on Friday at the Princeton Medical Center. She was 85 and lived a
 Pauline Ames Plimpton, who had a late-blooming career as a writer that startled but not did not surprise her famous literary offspring, George Plimpton, died yesterday at her home in New York City. She was 93. Her family said the cause was circulatory illness. As the daughte
 Pauline Ames Plimpton, who had a late-blooming career as a writer that startled but not did not surprise her famous literary offspring, George Plimpton, died on Saturday at her home in New York City. She was 93. Her family said the cause was circulatory illness. As the daugh
 Bernice Levy Rudnick, a philanthropist active with organizations in New York City and in Palm Beach, Fla., died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 and also lived in Palm Beach. The cause was cancer, according to a spokeswoman for Albert Einstein College of Medicine and
 Mary Bingham, the matriarch of the Bingham newspaper empire, died suddenly in Louisville, Ky., on Tuesday evening. She was 90 and lived in Glenview, 15 minutes outside Louisville, on the family estate. Mrs. Bingham, a philanthropist and civic leader and the widow of Barry Bingham Sr
 Tania Kurella Stern, a physical therapist and a co-translator, with her husband, of the work of many noted German writers, died on Monday at her home in Wiltshire, England. She was 91. Mrs. Stern was born in Berlin, where her father was a prominent psychiatrist. She and the writer J
 Litia Namoura, a dancer and teacher, died on April 11 at her home in Brooklyn. She was 83. The cause was heart disease, said Edward Coury, a cousin. Early in her career, in the 1930's, Miss Namoura was a protegee and understudy of the modern-dance pioneer Ruth St. Denis. She
 Tessie O'Shea, a Tony-winning music-hall singer and actress with a bouncy stage personality that cheerfully capitalized on her girth, died yesterday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. She was 82 and lived in East Lake Weir, Fla. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Kathleen
 Maggie Kuhn, who called herself a little old woman and celebrated her forced retirement in 1970 by founding the Gray Panthers, died yesterday at the home she shared in Philadelphia with a like-minded coterie. She was 89. "She died peacefully in her sleep," said her personal assistan
 Ginger Rogers, the vivacious actress whose supple grace in the arms of Fred Astaire lifted the spirits of Depression-era moviegoers in some of the most elegantly romantic musical films ever made, died yesterday at her home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was 83. The blond, blue-eyed ac
 Marion Lounsbury Foster, who was for many years a social services administrator with the Disaster Staff of the American Red Cross, specializing in public and private emergencies, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport, Conn. She was 97 and a longtime resident
 Pearl Rainwater Twyne, an animal rights advocate in the Washington area who helped draw national attention to the plight of the Tennessee Walking Horse, died last Friday in St. Alphonsus Hospital in Boise, Idaho. Mrs. Twyne, a longtime resident of Great Falls, Va., moved to Boise in 1993. S
 Isabel Leighton Bunker, whose long career as an actress and writer embraced theater, journalism and television, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95. The cause was a stroke, said Evan H. Rhodes, her son-in-law. Miss Leighton began her career in the theater, 
 Marion Burbank Stevens Rice, a noted teacher and producer of dance by the pioneering modern dancers Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, died on April 12 at the Highlands Long Term Care Center in Fitchburg, Mass.. She was 90 and lived in Ashby, Mass. Mrs. Rice was known for the purity and 
 Margaret Avery Rowell, a cellist who was one of the country's best-known teachers of the instrument, died on April 21 at Kaiser Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. She was 94 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter-in-law, Barbara Rowell. Mrs. 
 Holly Harp, the California designer who went from a Sunset Boulevard sensation to a darling of Fifth Avenue salons, died on Monday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 55. The cause of death was cancer, said her fiance, Mark Buchman. Mrs. Harp, who captivated Hol
 Judith A. Goldman, who was long active in Jewish cultural, philanthropic and environmental causes, died yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. The cause of death was cancer, family members said. Mrs. Goldman was the 
