 Nancy Van Norman Baer, the curator of theater and dance at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, died on Tuesday at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. Ms. Baer was 55 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was cancer, said Pamela Forbes, director of media at th
 Sarah Korein, who acquired some of the choicest real estate in Manhattan through bare-knuckle tactics cloaked by grandmotherly charm, died on Thursday at the North Division of Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 93 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, said
 Lenore Cahn Zola, whose aid to a relative she did not know indirectly helped document the horrors of the Holocaust and who became an advocate for the elderly and sick, died on Nov. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 91. A longtime member of Manhattan Community Board N
 Nina Youshkevitch, a Russian-born American ballerina who was a leading dancer in Bronislava Nijinska's ballets and a longtime ballet teacher in New York, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. She had been undergoing treatment for cancer, said her 
 Vassar Miller, whose lifelong struggle with cerebral palsy made the simplest tasks arduous yet who wrote 10 volumes of searing and highly regarded poetry, died on Oct. 31 at Houston Methodist Hospital. She was 74. Ms. Miller's work often explored religious themes, although she also 
 Rumer Godden, the prolific British author of ''Black Narcissus'' and  ''The River,'' and a writer of children's books that are enjoyed throughout the world, died on Sunday at her home in Dumfriesshire, Scotland. She was 90. In a career that began in 1935, Ms. Godden published some 7
 Florence L. Walsh, a fast-rising executive at Lucent Technologies Inc. who helped engineer that company's split from the AT&T Corporation in 1996, died on Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey. Ms. Walsh, who lived in Bernardsville, N.J., was 37. The cause was toxic
 Anita Kurman Gulkin, president and chief executive of Greenwich House Inc., a social-service and cultural community organization based in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 59, lived in Springfield, N.J., and also had an apartment in Chelse
 Bobo Lewis, a screen and stage actress who performed with the Circle Repertory Company for 25 years, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her cousin, Susan Lera of Miami. In a 1987 interview in The Ne
 Svetlana Beriosova, an incandescent leading ballerina with the Royal Ballet of England for two decades, died on Tuesday at the hospice at St. Charles's Hospital in London. She was 66 and lived in London. The cause was cancer, said Patricia Daly of the British journal Dancing Times. 
 Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death became nationally known o
 Barbara Thornton, a singer and musicologist who, with Benjamin Bagby, founded and directed Sequentia, the medieval music ensemble, died last Sunday at the Caritas hospice in Cologne, Germany. She was 48 and lived in Cologne. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, Jon Aaron,
 Catherine Wheeler Pillsbury, a philanthropist who with her husband, Evans S. Pillsbury 2d, owned and operated cattle ranches in the Santa Ynez Valley of California from the 1930's to the 50's, died Friday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 92. Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, 
 Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death become nationally known o
 Dr. Marcia L. Storch, an innovator in women's health care, died Nov. 9 at her home in Tenants Harbor, Me. She was 65. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. She was best known as a private practitioner who was widely influential in changing the rules of treatment for
 Catherine Wheeler Pillsbury, a philanthropist who with her husband, Evans S. Pillsbury 2d, owned and operated cattle ranches in California's Santa Ynez Valley from the 1930's to the 50's, died Friday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 92. Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a
 Mary Main, a novelist who also wrote a highly regarded biography of Eva Peron, died on Nov. 8 at her home in Ridgefield, Conn. She was 95. Ms. Main was born to British parents in Buenos Aires, where her father was general manager of the Buenos Aires Western Railway. She grew
 Paula Kissinger, a refugee from Nazi Germany who held the Bible at the White House in 1973 when her first-born son, Henry, was sworn in as Secretary of State, the highest Cabinet post in her adopted land, died at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center yesterday in Manhattan. She was 97.      
 Valerie Hobson, a British movie star who stayed loyal to her husband, John Profumo, after he figured in a sex scandal as a member of Britain's Conservative Government in 1963, died on Friday at a London hospital. She was 81. The cause was a heart attack, the British news agency Pres
 Jean Dalrymple, who abandoned a nascent acting career to become a successful publicist, then an even more successful manager of concert artists and finally a dynamic producer of musicals and plays for City Center and other stages, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home, across the street from
 Marion Donovan, a onetime Connecticut housewife who had to change one damp diaper too many, died on Nov. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 81 and had helped spearhead an industrial and domestic revolution by inventing the forerunner of the disposable diaper.      
 Esther Rolle, a pioneering African-American actress who gained national recognition in the 1970's for her role as Florida Evans on two television shows, first ''Maude'' and then ''Good Times,'' died at a hospital here on Tuesday. She was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. Larry Calhoun, h
 Elisabeth A. Owens, who helped to shape the field of international tax law and in 1972 became the first woman ever granted tenure at Harvard Law School, died on Sunday at Falmouth (Mass.) Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Falmouth. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease,
 Carol Henning Shaw, an early organizer of Mothers' Voices, a national group working for AIDS prevention and cure, died Thursday at her home on the West Side of Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. Mrs. Shaw was moved by the fate of her stepda
 Edwige Feuillere, a much-loved French actress whose 60-year career took her from sensual screen beauty to grande dame of the Paris theater, died here on Nov. 13. She was 91 and lived in Paris. She was buried on Wednesday in a family tomb at Beaugency, near Orleans. Ms. Feuillere fir
 Gina Blau, an American dancer who was an early exponent of Indian classical dance in the United States, died on Oct. 23 at Forest View Nursing Home in Forest Hills, Queens. She was 92. Ms. Blau was the first non-Indian to be given the title of Natyakala Bushanam (Jewel of the Dance)
 Peggy Lehman Korn, a New York philanthropist, died Nov. 17 at her home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest, her family said. Born Peggy Lashanska Rosenbaum in Manhattan, she joined the board of Planned Parenthood of New York City in the 1940's an
 Luba Elianoff, a Latvian-born little old linen lady whose bearing was a bit too regal, whose spirit was a bit too fiery and whose embroideries were a bit too elegant to be called that to her face, died on Nov. 17 at her apartment on Riverside Drive. She was 96 and had much preferred to be c
 Celeste Mendoza, a Cuban singer who was known as the Queen of the Guaguanco, or street rumba, died on Sunday in Havana. She was 68. Cuban newspapers reported Ms. Mendoza's death but did not say what the cause was, according to the Associated Press. Ms. Mendoza, who was born 
 Helen Herrick Malsed, a lumber baron's daughter whose imagination gave rise to the popular Slinky Dog and Slinky Train toys, died Nov. 13 in Seattle, her home for almost 60 years. She was 88. She created more than 26 toys or games, including the first board game based on Roman numer
