 Tiki Freeman, who in the early 1970's became one of the first female cantors in the United States, died on Saturday at her home in Eastchester, N.Y. She was 69 years old. Mrs. Freeman died of cancer, said her husband, Joel. Mrs. Freeman was born in Brooklyn, to Elias Gilner,
 Barbara Dalton Wainwright, a vice president of Manufacturers Hanover Trust, died on Tuesday at her home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 44 years old. She died of complications from cancer, said her husband, Harris E. Wainwright Jr. Mrs. Wainwright, who had been with Manufacturers 
 Helen M. Serfling, an art director for national magazines, advertising agencies and department stores, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of breast cancer, said Milton Simpson, her companion. 
 Jean Baer Fensterheim, a writer of personal self-help books and magazine articles aimed especially at women, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Herbert Fensterheim.     
 Willa L. Z. Armstrong, the president of Armstrong Information Services, a Manhattan video-production company, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center. She was 63 years old and had homes in Manhattan and at Ocean Ridge on Fire Island, L.I. She died of cancer, said a
 Georgia Brown, a gravelly voiced singer and an earthy actress who originated the role of Nancy in the musical "Oliver!," died yesterday in London. She was 57 years old and lived in Hollywood. She died at Charing Cross Hospital, The Associated Press reported, saying her death was aft
 Sister Josephine Morgan, whose work as director of the Pius X School of Liturgical Music at Manhattanville College helped raise the standards of sacred music, died on Friday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany. She was 83 years old. She died of heart failure, said Siste
 Alice Bennett Dunnington, a Government intelligence official during World War II, died on Monday at Beaumont at Bryn Mawr, a retirement home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 87 years old. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Rodger McKinney, director of the Chadwick Funeral Home in 
 Desanka Mohorovicic, who made front-page news in 1942 by giving birth in a crowded lifeboat off North Carolina after the American ship she was traveling on was sunk by a submarine, died last Thursday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. She was 78 years old and lived in River Edge, N.J.   
 Alberta Smith Jacoby, a film maker and lecturer on mental health, died on Wednesday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Guilford, Conn. She died after a brief illness, her family said. Mrs. Jacoby, a specialist in mental-health education, had been a
 Dr. Joanna Hollenberg Sher, a professor of clinical pathology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn, died on July 4 at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. She was 59 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Sher died of cancer, said her son, Jonathan.  
 Novetah Holmes Davenport, an early pilot who became an executive in the aircraft industry, died July 3 at a nursing home in Pompano Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old. Mrs. Davenport received her pilot's license in 1930, continued to fly for many years and, at the age of 60, earned a 
 Audrey Phipps Holden, a philanthropist long active in New York and Connecticut, died on Sunday at New York Hospital while on a visit to the area.  She was 77 years old and in recent years lived in Hobe Sound, Fla. She died after a brief illness, her family said. Mrs. Holden,
 Caroline Miller Ray, whose first novel won the 1934 Pulitzer Prize for literature, died on Sunday at her home in Waynesville, N.C. She was 88 years old. A son, George A. Miller, said the exact cause of death was not known. Under the name Caroline Miller, Mrs. Ray burst upon 
 Debora Dammann Kramer, an administrator of mental health and social-welfare programs, died on Saturday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. Mrs. Kramer was 54 years old and lived in Washington and in Manhattan. She died of cancer, a member of the family
 Elsie Driggs, an early practitioner of Precisionist painting, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Miss Driggs, who had been hospitalized for a fractured pelvis, died in her sleep, said her daughter, Merriman Gatch of Ma
 Mai-mai Sze, a painter and author, died in New York Hospital in Manhattan on Thursday. She was 82 years old. Ms. Sze died of throat cancer, said Jean B. Angell, a close friend who was her lawyer. The daughter of a former Chinese Ambassador to the United States, Ms. Sze was b
 Mollie Parnis, the fashion designer, whose Park Avenue living room was as well known to actors, journalists and Democrats as her Seventh Avenue showroom was to the women who bought her dresses, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. She was in her early 90's but had long refused to
 Mabel Randall Thomas, who led the Big Sisters of New York in the creation of its programs to help troubled children, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of a heart attack after a long illness, her family said.
 Olga Loeb, a trustee of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center who did volunteer work for more than five decades, died on Sunday in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 97 years old and lived in the Bronx. Mrs. Loeb managed her gift shop at the hospital on Friday as usual and died at Northern Dutchess Ho
 May Rudin, philanthropist and matriarch of one of Manhattan's real-estate dynasties, died yesterday at her East Side home. She was 95 years old. She died after a brief illness, her family said. A native of New York City, she was one of seven children born to immigrant parent
 Helen M. Knubel, archivist of the Lutheran Church, died on Thursday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 91 years old. She lived in New Rochelle, N.Y., until she recently entered the Wartburg Nursing Home, in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Miss Knubel died of respiratory failure, sa
 Lillian Vorhaus Oppenheimer, who made origami, the intricate Japanese art of paper-folding, popular in the United States, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died after a heart operation, her family said.       
 Hope Miller Lessman, a former actress and real estate executive, died on July 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 63 years old. She died of breast cancer, said her son, Lance. As Hope Miller, Mrs. Lessman appeared in numerous dramas on film, the Broadway stage, 
 Ruth Batchelor, a songwriter and radio and television reporter, died on July 23 at South Miami Hospital in Florida. She was 58 years old and lived in Key Biscayne, Fla. She died of cancer, said her husband, Peter Kory. Ms. Batchelor began her career as a songwriter, writing 
 Katharine Bradley Lenhart, a volunteer active for decades in civic and social causes, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan and Waterford, Conn. Her family said she died after a brief illness. Born in Nyack, N.Y., Mrs. Lenhart gra
 Pola Nirenska, a noted teacher and choreographer who danced with Mary Wigman, died on Saturday after a fall from the balcony of her apartment in Bethesda, Md. She was 81 years old. The death was ruled a suicide by the Montgomery County Medical Examiner. Miss Nirenska was a m
