 Florence Small Gaynor, the first black woman to head a major teaching hospital in the United States, died on Sept. 16 at Christiana Medical Center in Newark, Del. She was 72. She died unexpectedly after a sudden brain hemorrhage, said her son, Wardell. Mrs. Gaynor, a registe
 Kay Nolte Smith, the author of "The Watcher" and other mystery novels, died on Saturday at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. She was 61 and lived in Tinton Falls, N.J. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Judith Nolte Heimer of Manhattan. Ms. Smith was born
 Reizl Bozyk, an actress who received top billing in the Yiddish theater for more than 60 years, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital Medical Center. She was 79 and lived on the Lower East Side. Mrs. Bozyk was an enduring star of the Yiddish stage here and earlier in Poland and
 Fran Carlon, an actress who worked in radio, television, films and theater, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Casey Allen. Miss Carlon began her career in the early 1930's, playing Little Eva in a touring company of 
 Josephine Jablons, a board member of the New York City Opera Company, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69 and also had a home in Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Jablons helped found the City Opera Guild in 1959 and for six years s
 Bee Schenken, a leading contract bridge player who won seven national titles, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. The cause of death was a stroke after a long illness, said her daughter, Sandra Bandler of Manhattan. Mrs. Schenken had an unusual string of su
 Genevieve Sanchez Klein, a former member of the New York State Board of Regents and an outspoken critic of sex education and busing to integrate schools, died on Monday at her home in Daytona, Fla. She was 79. The cause was cancer of the brain and lungs, said Howard Hurwitz, a frien
 Virginia Lee Bracker, a retired reporter and foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. She had been ill for a long time with a variety of ailments and her death was a suicide, said her friend and executor, Robert Riggs.      
 Agnes de Mille, who helped change American dance with her ballet "Rodeo" in 1942 and musical comedy with her choreography for "Oklahoma!" a year later, died yesterday in her Greenwich Village apartment. She was 88. The cause was a stroke, said Dr. Fred Plum, the head of neurology at
 Dr. Barbara Feitel, a clinical psychologist and research scientist associated with the Nathan Kline Research Institute, Phoenix House and Covenant House, died on Saturday at White Plains Memorial Hospital. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, her family said.    
 Charlotte Catherine Campbell, a retired professor who advanced the knowledge and treatment of infections caused by fungi, died on Friday at Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston. A Boston resident, she was 78. She had had a brief illness, said a spokesman for J. S. Waterman & Sons fu
 Helen Adam, a poet and composer of Scottish ballads, died on Sept. 19 at a nursing home in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. She was 83. A master of ballads and classical English poetry, she was nevertheless closely associated with the Beat authors and the San Francisco school of poets. She re
 Peggy Dennis, a Communist organizer and author, died on Sept. 25 at the Jewish Home for the Aged in San Francisco. She was 84. The cause was complications from several strokes, said her son, Eugene Dennis Vrana. Ms. Dennis was the wife of Eugene Dennis, general secretary of 
 Anne Thompson MacDonald, the founder of Recording for the Blind, a nonprofit organization that has put more than 80,000 books on tapes for blind and learning-disabled students since 1948, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Huntington, L.I. She was 96 and had lived in Manhattan. S
 Christine O'Reilly, one of the tennis-playing triplets from Ridgewood, N.J., died on Sunday at the University of California hospital at Irvine. She never regained consciousness after suffering a severe head injury in an automobile accident in Irvine early Saturday morning. She was 25.      
 Christine O'Reilly, one of the tennis-playing triplets from Ridgewood, N.J., died on Sunday at the University of California hospital at Irvine. She never regained consciousness after suffering a severe head injury in an automobile accident in Irvine early Saturday morning. She was 25.      
 Dr. Harriet L. Hardy, a pioneer in occupational medicine and the first woman to become a full professor at Harvard Medical School, died on Wednesday in Boston. She was 87. Dr. Hardy died from lymphoma, a cancer of the immune system, at the Massachusetts General Hospital, where she h
 Gertrude Marie Derrick Bolden DePass, the first black administrator of a New York City welfare center in Harlem and a former deputy director of the city's Bureau of Public Assistance, died on Oct. 8 in a nursing home in Brooklyn. She was 86. The cause was complications from Alzheime
 Ruth Gilbert, a stage actress discovered by Eugene O'Neill who went on to perform on television as Milton Berle's lovesick, scatterbrained secretary, Max, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in New York. The cause was brain ca
 Eda Helen Brooks, an actress and voice teacher, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Mrs. Brooks was in the original cast of "Chicago," which was the first show to appear at the Music Box Theater in the 1920's. She also toured on the Keith and Pantages theater circui
 Gwen Welles, a screen actress best known for her role in the 1975 movie "Nashville," in which she played an aspiring country singer, died Wednesday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 42. The cause was cancer, said her husband, the actor Harris Yulin. Ms. Welles, bor
 Joan Sibley, a fashion designer whose work is included in the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. She was 52. The cause was Burkitt's lymphoma, a rare form of cancer, said her husband, Peter Powell.   
 Tamara Dembo, a psychologist who developed a method to study anger in social situations, died on Sunday at Memorial Hospital in Worcester, Mass. She was 91 and lived in Worcester. Professor Dembo, who had taught at Clark University in Worcester, did important early work in Gestalt p
 Lois Kibbee, a stage actress, director and writer who became known late in life for her decadelong role as the matriarch Geraldine Whitney Saxon on the daytime television serial "The Edge of Night," died on Monday in Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived
 Mary E. Clark, a lawyer who successfully campaigned for a change in Florida law so that people with major illnesses would not lose a large part of their medical insurance coverage, died here on Saturday. She was 37. The cause was colon cancer, said her husband, Keith Westerberg.    
 Yolanda Serrano, the head of a private addiction and AIDS prevention organization in New York City that fought for the distribution of free needles and syringes to prevent infection, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 45. Her associates said the cau
 Audrey Triolo, an advocate for the elderly and poor in the Greenwich, Conn., area who directed a food bank and an organization that developed affordable housing, died on Oct. 14 at her home in Riverside, Conn. She was 60. The cause was cancer, her family said. From 1987 to 1
 Liza Anne Bosworth, a partner in a Manhattan law firm, died on Oct. 18 in San Francisco, where she was on a business trip. She was 35 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was accidental drowning, her family said. A native of Manhattan, Ms. Bosworth graduated from Amherst Colleg
 Beryl Emmer Menon, a journalist who edited the staff newspaper of Unicef, the United Nations relief organization, and who traveled and wrote widely in India and the Himalayas, died on Oct. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 50. She had decided to discontinue kidney dialysis after 
 Dr. Dorothy Borg, a Columbia University historian of United States-East Asian relations, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. Her family said she had had a brief illness. From 1966 until her retirement several years ago, Dr. Borg was a senior research ass
 Doris Duke, the tobacco heiress and philanthropist whose bittersweet life was woven of luxury, disputes and interludes of deep unhappiness, died yesterday at her house in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80 and had her main residence in Somerset County, N.J. She also had homes on Park Avenue i
 Charlotte O'Keefe Pepe, head of Chemicolloid Laboratories of Garden City Park, L.I., died on Thursday while attending a business meeting in Paris. She was 83 and lived in Garden City. Her family said the cause was a heart attack. Chemicolloid Laboratories was founded by Mrs.
 Mary C. Lawton, the Justice Department official in charge of foreign intelligence surveillance, died on Monday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 58. A department official said the cause was a pulmonary embolism. As counsel for intelligence policy and head of the Office of
