 Joan Braden, a former State Department official who was a hostess and friend to high-ranking Washington figures and whose eight children inspired the ABC television series ''Eight Is Enough,'' died on Monday in Alexandria, Va. She was 77 and a longtime resident of the Washington area.      
 Louise Alone Thompson Patterson, an advocate of civil rights and leftist causes, a participant in the Harlem Renaissance and a longtime associate of one of its leading figures, the poet Langston Hughes, died on Friday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 97. The 1920'
 Jeanne Miles, an American painter of luminous geometric abstractions, died last Friday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 90. Ms. Miles was born in Baltimore and grew up in Washington. She was the first woman to enroll in the art school at George Washington University. In 1937, s
 Lenon Hoyte, better known as Aunt Len, who shared her dream of a doll museum with Harlem children and  collectors from around the world for two decades, died Aug. 1 at a hospital in New York. She was 94. A public school art teacher, she  founded Aunt Len's Doll and Toy Museum, one o
 Katie Webster, the blues and boogie-woogie pianist and singer known as the Swamp Boogie Queen, a mainstay of Gulf Coast rhythm-and-blues recordings in the 1950's and 60's and a popular touring artist in the 80's and early 90's, died on Sunday at her home in League City, Tex. She was 63.    
 Ruth Roman, a screen actress who parlayed her electrically charged combination of sexiness and wholesomeness into Hollywood stardom in the late 1940's and 50's, died on Thursday at her home in Laguna Beach, Calif. She was 75. She died in her sleep, said her son, Richard Hall.       
 Ellen B. Hirschland, an art collector, teacher and a great-niece of the Baltimore collectors Claribel and Etta Cone, died on Sept. 3 while traveling near St. Moritz, Switzerland. She was 80 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said her son Edward. Mrs. Hirs
 Birgit Cullberg, a pioneering experimental choreographer in Sweden who earned an international reputation through her intense dramatic ballets and vigorous social-protest pieces, died on Wednesday in Stockholm, where she lived. She was 91. Although Miss Cullberg was a disciple of th
 Emily Solis Nathan, a journalist who later became a public relations executive specializing in art and museum projects in New York, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92. Miss Nathan was born in Manhattan. She graduated from Adelphi University and received a master's d
 Frances Knight, who ran the United States Passport Office for 22 years with efficiency and conservative zeal, denying passports and entrance visas to those she regarded as enemies of the nation and surviving efforts to remove her and even mandatory retirement at 70, died on Sept. 11 in a ho
 Chan Richardson Parker, known to many in the jazz world as the last wife of Charlie (Bird) Parker, the be-bop innovator, died on Sept. 9 in a hospital in Etampes, France, southwest of Paris. She was 74. She died of cancer, said Albert Oehrle, the lawyer for her son, Baird Parker. Sh
 M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where s
 Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight with her husband, the former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and did so with bold self-assurance and flair, died today in Munster, Germany. She was 67. The cause was leukemia, aides to Mr. Gorbac
 Tahia Carioca, the Egyptian belly dancer often called the Marilyn Monroe of the Arab world, died of a heart attack in a Cairo hospital on Monday.  She was 79. Miss Carioca's parents were mortified when as a teen-ager she took her beauty and talent to a Cairo nightclub to dance for s
 Mignon Garland, a dancer and teacher who played a major role in keeping Isadora Duncan's legacy alive in the United States, died on Sept. 15 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 91. After Duncan's death in 1927, her repertory and ideas as a pioneer of modern dance were passed di
 Sigrid de Lima, a writer whose early works won praise but who withdrew from public life in midcareer, died on Sunday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 77 and lived in Valley Cottage, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Alison de Lima Greene. Ms. de Lima burst 
 Judith Campbell Exner, who asserted in a 1988 interview in People magazine that she had been having an affair with John F. Kennedy when he was elected President, died late Friday at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles. She was 65 and lived in Or
 Diane Erickson, a model who was on the cover of Self magazine's first issue in 1979 and who later became a fashion photographer, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. She was 43. She died from complications from breast cancer, said Meg D'Incecco, the 
 She had not even known exactly what the word ''philanthropy'' meant, but the elderly washerwoman who gave away practically every dollar she ever made to endow a scholarship fund for poor students in Mississippi would become a symbol of selfless giving. Oseola McCarty, who gave away 
 Anneli Cahn Lax, a professor and editor who was a leader in the publishing of mathematical literature, died on Friday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side. She was 77. Professor Lax had pancreatic cancer, said her husband, Peter Lax. She retired in 1992 from New York U
 Marion Zimmer Bradley, a science fiction writer and the creator of the Darkover series of fantasies, died on Saturday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. She was 69 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was a heart attack, said Elisabeth Waters, her cousin and secretary.    
