 Amelia Opdyke Jones, an artist who made the "Subway Sun" posters for the New York City Transit Authority for 20 years, died on Thursday at her home in Sea Girt, N.J. She was 80. The cause was respiratory complications, said her son, William. Mrs. Jones's drawings, which she 
 Dixy Lee Ray, former chairwoman of the Atomic Energy Commission and Governor of Washington, died yesterday at her home on Fox Island, near Tacoma. She was 79. She had suffered for some months from a severe bronchial condition, said a friend, Lou Guzzo, who is a television commentato
 Susan Lehman Cullman, a New York philanthropist who served as a Navy cryptographer in World War II, died on Sunday at her home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. She was 79 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Cullman graduated from Horace Man
 Anne Joers Firestone, a philanthropist and civic leader in Bryn Mawr, Pa., died at her home there on Dec. 28. She was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said Bob Troyer, a spokesman for the family. Mrs. Firestone was born in New York and graduated from Miss Porter's School. She 
 Mildred Gilman Wohlforth, who wrote books and magazine articles and was a New York newspaperwoman during the Roaring Twenties, died on Monday at her home in Ridgefield, Conn. She was 97. The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Robert M. Wohlforth. Mrs. Wohlforth's br
 Louise Averill Svendsen, an art historian and former curator and administrator at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, died sometime last week at her home in Manhattan. Her body was found on Monday by the superintendent of the building in which she lived. She was 78. She died of natura
 Natalie Molostwoff, a former executive director of the School of American Ballet, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. The cause was cancer, said Nathalie Gleboff, the current executive director of the school, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet.       
 Sonny Sloan, a driving force behind several philanthropic programs at the New York Public Library, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68. The cause was cancer, said her former husband, Howard Sloan. A lifelong resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Sloan was a 
 Emily Jordan Boxer, a television producer who arranged book interviews for NBC television's "Today" show in the 1980's, died yesterday at New York Hospital. A resident of Manhattan and Amagansett, L.I., she was 65. The cause was massive pneumonia, said her husband, John Boxer.      
 Erica Glaser Wallach, who spent five years in Communist prisons at the height of the cold war on espionage charges that the Soviet authorities later said were false, died on Dec. 22 in Fauquier Hospital in Warrenton, Va. She was 71. She died of cancer, said Renee Glaser, a cousin.  
 Katharine Reynolds Cooke Greeff, a child psychologist, died on Dec. 26 in her home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She was 93. Her family said the cause was a heart attack. Mrs. Greeff was born in New Jersey.  She graduated from Wellesley College and held a master's degree i
 Katherine Kuh, a writer on art and a former curator at the Art Institute of Chicago who devoted her career to the acceptance of modern art, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. She died of natural causes, said her lawyer, William H. Roth. Mrs. Kuh, the former
 Louise Soelberg, a leading dancer with the Ballets Jooss, died on Jan. 5 at Greene Memorial Hospital in Xenia, Ohio. She was 90 and lived in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Miss Soelberg trained in dance in her hometown, Seattle, at the Cornish School of Music and Art, a noted experimentalist
 Dr. Jeanne Shirley Mintz, an authority on Indonesia and an Asian affairs specialist in the Defense Department, died on Tuesday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Hospital. She was 71 and lived in Washington. The cause was congestive heart failure, her Pentagon office said. At the t
 Joan Avnet, an art collector, dealer and philanthropist, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter Rosalind Avnet Lazarus. Mrs. Avnet was the widow of Lester Avnet, founder of Avnet Inc., a di
 May Nora Shea, a volunteer worker and supporter of diverse causes, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai South Hospital in Manhattan. She was 77 and lived on the West Side of Manhattan. The cause was a respiratory ailment, her family said. Mrs. Shea was a native of Brooklyn and a
 Joan M. Auten, an aide at the United States Embassy in London for 44 years before her retirement a decade ago, died on Jan. 7 in Wellington Hospital in London. She was 76. The cause was pneumonia, said a friend, Michael Clark. Miss Auten headed the visitors' office at the em
 Rosemary Glyde, a violist who performed frequently as a recitalist and was a founder and president of the New York Viola Society, died on Tuesday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco. She was 46 and lived in Golden's Bridge, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Joan 
 Nancy Carnegie Rockefeller, a community leader and active volunteer in Greenwich, Conn., died at her home there yesterday. She was 93. Family members said she died of natural causes. An early champion of birth control, she helped establish the Greenwich Maternal Health Cente
 Federica Montseny, the first woman to serve as a Cabinet minister in Spain, where she secured passage of a law in 1937 allowing women to have abortions, died on Jan. 14 in Toulouse, France, where she and other Spanish Republicans settled as exiles in the late 1930's. She was 88. Mrs
 Lynne Murray Johnson, the wife of Belton Kleberg Johnson, an heir to the King Ranch in Kingsville, Tex., died on Sunday at her home in San Antonio. She was 50. The cause was cancer, said Janette Ganster, a spokeswoman for the Johnson family. Mrs. Johnson was born in Narromin
 Esther Ralston, a silent-screen actress and vaudeville star who was known for a time as "the American Venus" for her starring role in the 1926 film of that name, died on Jan. 14 at her home in Ventura, Calif. She was 91. The cause was a heart attack, said Jess L. Hoaglin, a friend. 
 Dr. Margaret E. Courain, a retired information manager for the Federal Government and the pharmaceutical industry, died Jan. 13 at her home in South Orange, N.J. She was 66. The cause was cancer, said Jacqueline Algon, a friend. Starting in 1949 Dr. Courain spent 32 years at
 Phyllis Goodhart Gordan, a benefactor and former trustee of the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Lucy Rastelli, a daughter. Mrs. Gordan's association with the library dated to 1940, when
 Sherry Mathis, an actress who performed on Broadway and in the daytime soap opera "Search for Tomorrow," died on Jan. 23 in Memphis. She was 44. The cause was cancer, said her brother William A. Mathis. Ms. Mathis was a graduate of Memphis State University. She came to New Y
 Ruth Pruyn Field, a director of the Field Foundation who was active in civic causes in New York, died on Tuesday at her home in Beaufort, S.C. Mrs. Field, who was 86, also kept a home in Southport, Conn. The cause was an aneurysm, her family said. Mrs. Field was the widow of
 Daisy Newman, a novelist and Quaker historian, died on Tuesday at her home in Lexington, Mass. She was 89. The cause was heart failure, said her son, J. Nicholas Newman of Wayland, Mass. Ms. Newman was born in Southport, England, of American parents. She attended Radcliffe C
 Mary Moorman, a noted biographer of the English poet William Wordsworth, died on Jan. 21, The Times of London reported. She was 88 and lived in Durham, England. Mrs. Moorman's biography of Wordsworth, an early leader of Romanticism who lived from 1770 to 1850, appeared in two volume
