 Margaret Baltzell Kreig, who wrote about health and medicine and raised early alarms over drug abuse by American young people, died on Jan. 12 at her home in Washington. Ms. Kreig, a former resident of Manhattan, was 76. The cause was complications from lung cancer, her family said.
 Dr. Gertrude Scharff Goldhaber, a physicist who contributed to scientists' understanding of nuclear fission and the structure of atomic nuclei, died on Monday at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital in Patchogue, N.Y. She was 86 and lived at Bayport on Long Island. Dr. Goldhaber was a membe
 Margaret Hillis, who founded the Chicago Symphony Chorus and was the first woman to conduct the Chicago Symphony itself, died yesterday at Evanston Hospital, in Evanston, Ill. She was 76, and lived in Wilmette, Ill. The cause was lung cancer, said Synneve Carlino, a spokeswoman for 
 Dr. Mary Catherine Raugust Howell, a pediatrician who championed medical careers and better health care for women and who was the first woman to become an associate dean at Harvard Medical School, died yesterday at her home in Watertown, Mass. She was 65. The cause was breast cancer
 Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital. She was 83 and lived in Harlem. From 1948, w
 Irene Kampen, who saw her sometimes strife-torn life as such a sitcom that it took Lucille Ball to portray it on television, died on Monday in Oceanside, Calif. She was 75 and the author of the book that inspired ''The Lucy Show.'' Her family said the cause was breast cancer.       
 Marje Fields, a longtime talent agent who was a pioneer in placing well-known actors in television commercials, died on Jan. 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. Among the clients represented at one time by her agency, Marje Fields Inc., were John Travolta, Ted Danson, Nancy Wal
 Rene  de Epelbaum, a founder of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo human rights group and one of its most dynamic members, died on Saturday at age 77. Her colleagues said she had suffered a heart attack. In 1977, during its crackdown on leftists, the military dictatorship that
 Helen Billings Burnham, a one-time real estate woman with no legal training who spent 22 years dispensing justice, sometimes from her family room, as a part-time, round-the-clock town justice in Salina, N.Y., died on Thursday at her home in Mattydale, a suburb of Syracuse. She was 81 and ha
 Lily Harmon, an artist who worked in portraiture, assemblage and book illustration, and whose third husband was the collector Joseph H. Hirshhorn, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Ms. Harmon, whose original name  was Lily Perlmutter, was born in 1912 in New Ha
 Alice Hanson Cook, a Cornell University scholar, early feminist and longtime advocate of equal pay for women and support programs for working mothers, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Ithaca, N.Y., of complications from a stroke. She was 94. Professor Cook began work at Cornell in 1954
 Alice Marie Miel, an educator who was among the earliest to advance the notion that curriculum in the nation's classrooms should have a role in preparing children for the society they will enter as adults, died on Jan. 31 at the North Florida Regional Medical Center in Gainesville. She was 
 Once upon a time there was a little girl named Mary Lou. Her family's name was Hall, and she was born in Greenville, S.C., on the very first day of 1895. That was a very long time ago. A man named Grover Cleveland was President of the United States, and there were only 44 states. They did n
 Ellen Scripps Davis, a horse breeder and granddaughter of the newspaper publisher Edward Wyllis Scripps, died on Feb. 8 in a fire at her home in San Diego. She was 84. Her husband, Everett Conley Davis, 83, was also killed in the fire. Though less involved in the newspaper b
 Martha Ellis Gellhorn, who as one of the first female war correspondents covered a dozen major conflicts in a writing career spanning more than six decades, died on Sunday at her home in London. She was 89. Ms. Gellhorn was a cocky, raspy-voiced maverick who saw herself as a champio
 Edith Oliver, a diminutive, raspy-voiced and highly influential drama critic at The New Yorker for more than three decades who got her start writing questions for radio quiz shows, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. ''She was packaged like the quintessential elderl
 Karen Avenoso, an education reporter for The Boston Globe who also wrote about her yearlong battle with Ewing's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer, died yesterday at her home in Westfield, N.J. She was 31. Ms. Avenoso joined The Globe in 1995 after spending three years at The Daily News
 Rose Sheppard Milbank, a longtime volunteer with the Red Cross and the United Nations, and a philanthropist who supported projects in underdeveloped countries, died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 81 and had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said. For
 Barbara Benson Crowther, a business manager of a law firm and a volunteer in mental health, died yesterday at her home in Palmyra, Va. She was 60 years old. She died of a heart attack, her husband, F. Bosley Crowther 3d, said. Ms. Crowther was born in New York City and managed Mr. C
 Chessy Rayner, a decorator, fashion icon, editor and author of ''New York: Trends and Traditions,'' a recently published book about significant Manhattan interiors, died on Thursday night at Sloan-Kettering Medical Center in New York. She was 66. Mica Ertegun, her partner in the des
