 Bertha Holt, whose family's struggle to adopt Korean orphans in the 1950's led to a movement that found American homes for thousands of children from overseas, died on Monday at her home in Creswell, Ore., after a stroke on July 24. She was 96. Mrs. Holt first attracted national att
 Constance Stuart Larrabee, a photographer who recorded the vanishing tribes of southern Africa, the World War II battlefields of Europe and her life on Maryland's tranquil Eastern Shore, died on July 27 at her home in Chestertown, Md. She was 85. Known as Constance Stuart earlier in
 Helene Ritzerfeld, an internationally known executive of a major German publishing house, Suhrkamp Verlag, died on July 22 at her office desk in Frankfurt. She was 86 and lived in Frankfurt. The cause was a heart attack, said a colleague, Dr. Petra Christina Hardt. At her de
 Helen Quinn, who for more than 30 years presided firmly over the Metropolitan Opera patrons who lined up every Saturday morning to buy standing-room tickets for the next  week's performances, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was food poisoning, said 
 Miki Denhof, one of the first women to be the art director of a magazine, and a noted mentor of fashion photographers, died on Wednesday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 88. In 1945, when Ms. Denhof joined Conde Nast, its fashion and lifestyle magazines were widely influent
 Ethel Brown Fitzgerald, a former New York City teacher and school administrator, lawyer and musician, died July 19 at a hospital in upstate Amsterdam. She was 68 and lived in Fonda, N.Y., and Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Fitzgerald spent 16 often con
 Mary MacLeod Trump, a philanthropist who supported charities near her home in Jamaica, Queens, and elsewhere, died on Monday at 88 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, her family said. Mrs. Trump was born Mary MacLeod on the Isle of Lewis in Scotland on May 10, 1912. On a visit to 
 Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a Catholic nun from a wealthy family in Puerto Rico who was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Clinton last August for over half a century of charity and peacemaking, died on Thursday in her native city of Ponce. She was 85. ''Armed only with her fait
 Patricia Moyes, the British mystery writer who created Detective Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbet and his ''merry and plump and comforting'' wife, Emmy, died on Aug. 2 at her home in Virgin Gorda, in the British Virgin Islands. She was 77. Ms. Moyes was known for her cozy, highly c
 Angele Albrecht, a widely known ballerina who won acclaim with Maurice Bejart's Brussels-based ballet company, died on Aug. 1 in a hospital in Munich. She was 57 and had lived in Munich since 1986. Officials there declined to disclose the cause of her death, The Associated Press rep
 Brenda Reilly, a teacher, sports administrator and three-sport coach in a career of almost three decades at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, died of cancer at a hospice in Branford, Conn., on Aug. 5. She was 62. Reilly first gained a degree of prominence as a mem
 Loretta Young, the Academy Award-winning actress whose high cheekbones, pale skin and luminous eyes made her a reigning Hollywood beauty of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday in Los Angeles. She was 87 and lived in Palm Springs, Calif. Miss Young, who won an Oscar as best actress f
 Frieda Mae Hardin, who joined the Navy during World War I, when women were still denied the right to vote, and at a widely noted ceremony  79 years later symbolized the achievements of all the women in the armed forces, died last Wednesday in Livermore, Calif. She was 103. Wearing a
 Virginia Admiral, an American painter and writer who studied with Hans Hofmann, died on July 27. She was 85 and lived in New York City. Ms. Admiral was born in Oregon and studied at the Art Institute of Chicago. While working on the Federal Arts Project in Oakland, Calif., in 1938, 
 Mary K. Wells, who acted in films, theater, television and radio and was part of a writing team that won two daytime Emmy Awards, died on Monday. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was an infection of the colon, said her son, Cameron Richardson. Miss Wells, whose c
 Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx. She was 82. For more than 50 years, Mrs. Amato was in many ways the welcoming face of her family-run opera company.
 Eva Gatling, an art historian and curator who for many years was the director of the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Westminister-Canterbury, a continuing care community in Virginia Beach, Va., where she had lived in recent years. She was 87. ''The major
 Pat Hearn, one of the leading art dealers of the last two decades, a founder of the Gramercy International Art Fair and a pioneer of the art scene in the East Village, SoHo and Chelsea, died on Friday at her vacation home in Provincetown, Mass. She was 45 and lived in Manhattan. The
 Lena Cymbrowitz, a first-term state assemblywoman from Brooklyn, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 43. Her family said she had been ill for a long time, but gave no details. Ms. Cymbrowitz, a Democrat, represented the 45th District, which includes Sheepshead Bay, Manhatta
 Helen Culver Ewing Breasted, who worked at Hull House in Chicago with Jane Addams, its founder and a family friend, died Sunday at her home in Tamworth, N.H. She was 90 and also had a home in Sewickley, Pa. Mrs. Breasted, a native of Chicago, attended Vassar College. As a volunteer 
 Joan Marsh, who made her film debut when she was 9 months old, played children's roles in silent films opposite Mary Pickford and returned to the screen in the 1930's and 40's as a glamorous blonde, died on Aug. 10 in Ojai, Calif. She was 85. She was born Dorothy Rosher in Portervil
 Ginetta Sagan, a leader of the American branch of Amnesty International who as a girl fought World War II's injustices in Europe and suffered for it, died last Friday at her home in Atherton, Calif., between San Francisco and San Jose. She was 75. The cause was cancer, said the Amer
 Renee Orin, an actress and singer known for her roles in Broadway musicals, died on Sunday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. She had lymphoma, said her husband, Albert Hague, a Tony-winning composer of Broadway musicals. Ms. Orin made her Broadway 
