 Irma Bezold Wilkinson, a benefactor and former staff member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on April 24 at the Noble Horizons Nursing Home in Salisbury, Conn. She was 91 and had homes in Sharon, Conn., and Manhattan. Mrs. Wilkinson, an Islamicist and a collector, worked with
 Sophia Wittenberg Mumford, the wife and sometime editor of the critic and historian Lewis Mumford,  died on April 22 at her home in Amenia, N.Y. She was 97. At her death she was writing a book on her life and the work she undertook with her husband, who died in 1990. After h
 Una E. Johnson, who built the print collection of the Brooklyn Museum of Art into one of the country's largest and best, died April 28 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 91 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Johnson, who was born in Dayton, Iowa, in 1905, was educated at the U
 Queen Mother Moore, a civil rights worker and black nationalist, died on Friday in a nursing home in Brooklyn. She was 98 and a longtime resident of Harlem. Miss Moore, whose real name was Audley Moore, was a hero to many residents of Harlem, where she worked with Marcus Garvey, the
 Emily Norris Carey, a foundation executive and philanthropist, died on April 30 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. She was 62 and had homes in Manhattan, Ambler, Pa., and Biddeford Pool, Me. The cause was multiple myeloma, her family said. Mrs
 Rosalind Gurwin, a benefactor of Jewish causes in the United States and Israel, died on Saturday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. She was 73 and lived in Kings Point, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was a heart ailment, said her husband, Joseph Gurwin, a retired textile ma
 Florence M. Kelley, the first administrative judge of the modern Family Court in New York City and an advocate for the legal rights of the poor, died last Saturday at her home in Little Compton, R.I. She was 85. The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, David S. Worgan, a reti
 Dionis Coffin Riggs, a poet, author, newspaper columnist and civic leader who made Martha's Vineyard her home and her passion for the better part of a century, died on April 20 at Cleaveland House, the West Tisbury, Mass., boardinghouse where she had listened to seafaring tales as a child a
 Selma Weintraub Greenberg, an expert in early childhood education who retired two years ago from Hofstra University as an emeritus professor, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was uterine cancer, her family said. Born in 
 Marie Salant Neuberger, a New York foundation executive and philanthropist who was long active in civic affairs, died on Sunday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Peekskill, N.Y. She suffered a long illness, her 
 Bessie Schonberg, one of America's most influential teachers of dance composition and a mentor to several generations of dancers, died yesterday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 90. Few dance educators were as respected as Miss Schonberg and because of the devoted attention s
 Catherine McLeod, an actress whose headache-induced outburst -- ''Mother, please! I'd rather do it myself!'' -- became a national catch phrase in the early 1960's, died on Sunday at the Encino-Tarzana Medical Center in Encino, Calif. She was 75 and lived in nearby Sherman Oaks. The 
 Thelma Carpenter, whose long roller-coaster career as a singer took her to the heights with the big bands of the 1930's and 40's, out of show business into years as a file clerk and back to the big-time on Broadway in the 60's, was found dead on Thursday in her apartment in Manhattan. She w
 Ethel Leah Heins, a specialist in  books for young readers, died on May 8 at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. She was 79, and lived in Newton. The cause was complications from a fall, said Gregory Maguire, a friend. Mrs. Heins was a former editor of The Horn Book M
 Joanie Weston, a strapping power hitter who passed up a promising and respectable future in softball to become the gum-chewing, power-skating, hip-bumping golden girl of Roller Derby, died on May 10 at her home in Hayward, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 62 and skated in an exhibition g
 Anna Scarpova Youskevitch, a prominent ballet teacher and a former member of the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's, died on Thursday at the Broadview Health Facility in West Hartford, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daug
 Patricia Mason, a real-estate broker who handled the sales of some of New York's best-known properties in recent years and who was well-known as a horticulturist, died at St. Vincent's Hospital early yesterday. She was 71 and lived in Greenwich Village. Her husband, Francis S. Mason
 Dorothy Olding, longtime literary agent for J. D. Salinger and chief guardian of the reclusive author's privacy, who at the author's request once destroyed 500 letters they had written to each other, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. During a 52-year career wit
 Esther Goldfrank, an accidental anthropologist who did pioneering research among the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest in the 1920's and churned out papers on the experience for the next half-century, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 100. As a Barnard eco
 Thelma Biracree Schnepel, who danced with Martha Graham in 1926 in her first concert, died on May 12 at the Harborside Health Care center in Fort Wayne, Ind. She was 93 and lived in Fort Wayne. Known professionally by her maiden name, Miss Biracree danced early in her career with th
 Robbie Tilley Branscum, whose books for young readers bore the stamp of her hardscrabble childhood in rural Arkansas, died on May 24 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 62. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Deborah. Born in Big Flat, Ark., she wa
 Maria Weigl Piers, an authority on psychosocial development in childhood and founder of the Erikson Institute for Advanced Study in Child Development in Chicago, died on May 21 at her home in Chicago. She was 85. Dr. Piers was internationally recognized for applying psychoanalytic c
