 Dr. Beatrix T. Gardner, a psychologist who with her husband, Dr. R. Allen Gardner, taught a chimpanzee sign language in the 1960's and the 1970's, died while traveling with her husband in Padua, Italy, on June 5. She was 61 and lived in Reno. Reached yesterday at the University of N
 Lana Turner, who built a successful movie career on her first screen appearance as a teen-age "sweater girl," died on Thursday. She was 75 and lived in Los Angeles. "She just took a breath and she was gone," her daughter, Cheryl Crane, was quoted as saying in Daily Variety, a trade 
 Phyllis Hyman, a New York jazz singer whose most recent hits included "When You Get Right Down To It" and "Living in Confusion," died yesterday afternoon in Manhattan, a possible suicide, the police said. She was 45. An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedr
 Phyllis Hyman, a New York jazz singer whose most recent hits included "When You Get Right Down to It" and "Living in Confusion," died yesterday afternoon in Manhattan, a possible suicide, the police said. She was 45. An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedr
 Saidye Rosner Bronfman, a philanthropist and widow of Samuel Bronfman, founder of the Seagram Company, died yesterday at her home in Montreal. She was 98. At her death, she was honorary president of the Samuel and Saidye Bronfman Family Foundation, which supports a variety of charit
 Dr. Ethel Emerson Wortis, a physician long active in civic affairs, died on Sunday at the San Simeon Nursing Home in Greenport, L.I. A former resident of New York City, she was 93 and lived in Southold, L.I. For nearly three decades, she was associated with the Women's City Club of 
 Elizabeth Adams, the flamboyant Madam Alex who operated a Beverly Hills prostitution ring for two decades until she was arrested in 1988 and displaced by her former assistant, Heidi Fleiss, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 60. Peter L. Knecht, 
 Margot Wittkower, one of the first women to practice interior design in Europe and the widow of the art historian Rudolf Wittkower, died on July 3 at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. Mrs. Wittkower, whose original name was Margot Holzmann, was born in Berlin in 1902. After establi
 Onnie Lee Logan, the Alabama midwife who used what she called her God-given motherwit to deliver hundreds of babies before her 1989 autobiography made her a favorite in feminist circles, died on Tuesday at the Mobile Infirmary in Mobile, Ala. By her own reckoning she was about 85. W
 Alice V. Keliher, whose experiences as a lightly trained teacher of ill-prepared first graders led her to become a renowned expert on early childhood education and a champion of giving children unreserved respect and affection, died on Tuesday at the Tucson Medical Center in Arizona. She wa
 Louise Reinhardt Smith, a discerning collector of modern art and a prized supporter of the Museum of Modern Art since 1957, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. Ms. Smith was one of the last of the strong-willed and independent-minded collectors whose activity was 
 Maggie Keswick, a Scots-born connoisseur of China and its sensuous, mysterious gardens, died on July 8 in London. She was 53 and had homes in London, Santa Monica, Calif., and Wellfleet, Mass. The cause was breast cancer, said John Taylor Williams of Palmer & Dodge, the family's leg
 May Sarton, poet, novelist and the strongest of individualists, died on Sunday at the York Hospital in York, Me., the town in which she had lived for many years. She was a stoical figure in American culture, writing about love, solitude and the search for self-knowledge. She was 83.        
 Nell Michel Sawyer, a volunteer for the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and other New York institutions, died on Monday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. A lifelong resident of Manhattan and Southampton, she was 50. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. 
 Roberta Church, an official in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations who was the first black woman to be elected to the Tennessee Republican State Executive Committee, died on Saturday at Baptist Memorial Hospital East in Memphis. She was 81 and lived in Memphis. She had suffered
 Virginia Mae Morrow, the Colorado woman whose hypnosis-induced recollections created a sensation in the 1950's, died on July 12 at a hospice outside Denver. She was 70. The cause was cancer, her husband, Richard, said. According to Mrs. Morrow's own recollections, she had di
 Dr. Berta Vogel Scharrer, a pioneering biomedical scientist and founding faculty member of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University, died on Sunday at her home in the Bronx. She was 88. Harvard University, conferring an honorary doctorate on Dr. Scharrer in 1982
 Erika Lehnsen, one of the first art therapists to work with children, died on Sunday at the Andrus retirement home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Until recently, Miss Lehnsen, who was 90, was a resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Miss Lehnsen and her associates, including Eli
 Susan McAllister Swap, an educator and writer who focused on involving parents in their children's schools, died last Thursday at her home in Winchester, Mass. She was 50. The cause was brain cancer, her family said. Dr. Swap joined the faculty of Wheelock College in Boston 
 Eleanore Griffin, a Hollywood writer who shared an Academy Award for a story that became part of a political debate more than half a century later, died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 91. In a career that extended fr
