Gwendolyn Cafritz, a leading Washington hostess, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in the capital. She was 78 years old. Gwendolyn Cafritz, a leading Washington hostess, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in the capital. She was 78 years old. The widow of Morris Cafri
Pannonica de Koenigswarter, a patron of jazz performers, died Wednesday of heart failure at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 74 years old. Pannonica de Koenigswarter, a patron of jazz performers, died Wednesday of heart failure at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Cen
Cornelia Goldsmith, a former director of the New York City Health Department's division of day care, day camps and institutions, died of cardiac arrest on Nov. 23 in Clinton, N.Y., where she lived. She was 96 years old. Cornelia Goldsmith, a former director of the New York Cit
Margaret Mee, a botanical artist and explorer of Amazonian rain forests, died in a car accident, her family said Friday. Margaret Mee, a botanical artist and explorer of Amazonian rain forests, died in a car accident, her family said Friday. Mrs. Mee was 79 years old. 
Kathleen M. Kane, the first female judge of the Nassau County District Court, died of complications Tuesday after undergoing surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. She was 87 years old and lived in Tampa. Kathleen M. Kane, the first female judge of the Nassau County D
Dr. Julia R. Vane, a clinical psychologist and a professor at Hofstra University, died Thursday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I., after a long illness. She was 69 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. Dr. Julia R. Vane, a clinical psychologist and a professor at 
Anne Seymour, a stage, film and television actress who also performed in more than 5,000 radio programs, died of respiratory failure Thursday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. She was 79 years old and lived in Studio City, Calif. Anne Seymour, a stage, film
Dorothy Jordan, a movie actress who began a short and successful career in talking pictures in 1929, died of congestive heart failure on Wednesday in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 82 years old and lived in Coronado, Calif. Dorothy Jordan, a movie actress 
Dorothy de Rothschild, a philanthropist, died Saturday at her home in London after a brief illness. She was 93 years old. Dorothy de Rothschild, a philanthropist, died Saturday at her home in London after a brief illness. She was 93 years old. Mrs. de Rothschild and he
Sondra T. Ordover, a longtime editor and publisher of paperback books, died of a brain tumor Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Woodstock, N.Y. Sondra T. Ordover, a longtime editor and publisher of paperback books, died of a brain
Adele Scott Saul, the first woman in Philadelphia to run for Congress, died Dec. 6 at her former home in Rose Valley, Pa. She was 101 years old and lived in Key West, Fla. Adele Scott Saul, the first woman in Philadelphia to run for Congress, died Dec. 6 at her former home in 
Virginia C. Duncomb, a lawyer who had been associated with the Legal Aid Society, died of a heart attack Sunday at her home in Lido Beach, L.I. She was 74 years old. Virginia C. Duncomb, a lawyer who had been associated with the Legal Aid Society, died of a heart attack Sunday
Sister Catharine Marie O'Brien, a former chief executive of the College of Mount St. Vincent, died Tuesday at the Convent of Mary the Queen in Yonkers, where she lived. She was 95 years old. Sister Catharine Marie O'Brien, a former chief executive of the College of Mount St. V
Celeste Lizio, an Italian immigrant whose likeness as ''Mama Celeste'' adorned millions of pizzas for the company she created, died Friday of complications from a heart ailment. She was 80 years old. Mrs. Lizio was born in San Angelo, Italy, in 1908 and came to the United States with 
Annette Daum, an educator and leader in interfaith programs, died of cancer Monday at her home in Syosset, L.I. She was 62 years old. Annette Daum, an educator and leader in interfaith programs, died of cancer Monday at her home in Syosset, L.I. She was 62 years old. M
Lucille Ogle, a creator of the Little Golden Books, a popular children's book series, died of heart failure Saturday in Lourdes Nursing Home in Pontiac, Mich. She was 84 years old. Lucille Ogle, a creator of the Little Golden Books, a popular children's book series, died of he
Erica Sherover-Marcuse, an organizer of workshops aimed at the resolution of cultural conflicts, died of liver failure last Thursday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 49 years old. Erica Sherover-Marcuse, an organizer of workshops aimed at the resolution of cultural confl
Alice Boney, a prominent dealer in Oriental art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at her Manhattan apartment. She was 87 years old. Alice Boney, a prominent dealer in Oriental art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at her Manhattan apartment. She was 87 years old. Miss 
Melanie Kahane, an interior designer whose bold use of color created a new look for homes, died of lung cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. Miss Kahane, the widow of Ben Grauer, a broadcaster for NBC News, caught the public's eye in 1946, when she designed 
Catherine L. Shea, executive assistant to the managing editor of The New York Times, died of colon cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City. She was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. Catherine L. Shea, executive assistant to the managing e
Daw Khin Kyi, widow of a Burmese independence leader and mother of an opposition leader, died today after a long illness, her family said. She was 76 years old. Daw Khin Kyi, widow of a Burmese independence leader and mother of an opposition leader, died today after a long ill
The Rev. Rachel Hosmer, one of the first women ordained to the priesthood of the Episcopal Church, died of cancer Friday at the Convent of St. Helena in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 80 years old. The Rev. Rachel Hosmer, one of the first women ordained to the priesthood 
Teresa Rosen Gordon, a retired English teacher in New York City, died of stomach cancer Sunday at her son's home in San Francisco. She was 81 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Teresa Rosen Gordon, a retired English teacher in New York City, died of stomach cancer Sunday at her 
Gertrude Cowan, a newspaper editor and illustrator who was known professionally as Trudi Cowan, died of cancer yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 63 years old and lived in Merrick, L.I. Gertrude Cowan, a newspaper editor and illustrator who
