 Faith Cardwell Davis, who with her sisters Hope Cardwell Brock and Charity Cardwell Lawson had been listed in the Guinness Book of Records as the world's oldest complete set of triplets, died on Sunday at Rolling Plains Memorial Hospital in Sweetwater, Tex. She was 95. The cause of 
 Sister Mary Margaret Johanning, a lecturer and consultant on theological affairs and the former international community leader of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, died on Saturday at St. Marys Health Center in Jefferson City, Mo. She was 57 and lived at St. Peter's Convent in Jefferson Cit
 Lina Basquette, a star of the silent-film era who later became a professional dog breeder and handler, died on Friday at her home in Wheeling, W.Va. She was 87. The cause was cancer, said Barry Paris, a friend. At the height of her career, Ms. Basquette was known as much for
 Shirley Chernela, a former administrator of Temple Shaaray Tefila in Manhattan and the first woman to be president of the National Association of Temple Administrators, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Janet C
 Virginia E. Montes, a former national secretary and lobbyist for the National Organization for Women, died Thursday at her home in Atlanta. She was 50. The cause was a stroke, the Atlanta medical examiner's office said. Ms. Montes, a native of Honduras, had been active in NO
 Ruth Blumka, a prominent New York dealer in medieval and Renaissance art and a donor of artworks to museums around the country, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, said her son, Anthony B
 Joan Kahn, a book editor whose imprint was a hallmark of suspense stories for many years, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan. She died after a brief illness, her family said. Miss Kahn edited hundreds of suspense nov
 Nora Jaffe, a painter and sculptor, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Lee. A recurring theme in Mrs. Jaffe's work was the male nude, the subject of her first oil painting, whe
 Arlene Carmen, a church administrator whose ministry sought out society's castoffs in the streets of Greenwich Village and midtown Manhattan, died on Sunday in Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. A Village resident, she was 58. The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, 
 Iris Adrian, an actress who played the brassy blonde in scores of films from the 1930's and 40's, died on Sept. 17 at her home in Hollywood. She was 81. The cause was complications from injuries in the Northridge, Calif., earthquake in January, said her friend Lester Glassner.      
 Merrinelle Sullivan, a past president and longtime officer of the National Council of Women of the United States, died on Sunday in her Manhattan home. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said Robert Sonderskov, a family friend. At her death, Mrs. Sullivan represented the Inte
 Jerry Allen, an author and former journalist, died on Monday at her home in Norwalk, Conn. She was 83. The cause was a heart attack, said Marjorie Berke, a friend. Miss Allen was best known as a biographer of literary figures, particularly Mark Twain and Joseph Conrad. She a
 Marcia Lawrence, who retired in January after 25 years as the director of communications for Planned Parenthood of New York City, died on Thursday at her home in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was colon cancer, her family said. Beginning in 1968, Ms.
 Martha Raye, the big-mouthed, big-hearted entertainer whose career spanned the decades from vaudeville to videos, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 78. In recent years, she had suffered a serious of ailments, including a stroke and circulatory dif
 Kaleria Fedicheva, a former ballerina with the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad who taught and staged the classics in the United States, died on Sept. 13 in Maribor, Slovenia, where she had been seeking medical treatment. She was 58 years old and lived in Glen Cove, L.I. Ms. Fedicheva died
 Prof. Marion Wilson Starling, a scholar of African-American history and professor emeritus at Brooklyn College, died on Oct. 14 at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. The cause was a heart attack, said Richard Coniglione, a spokesman for Brooklyn College. Professor Starling d
 Gertrude Russek Nemerov, whose family founded and ran the Russeks Fifth Avenue department store in Manhattan and whose children won fame in the world of arts and letters, died on Tuesday in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 93. Mrs. Nemerov's son, the poet Howard Nemerov, won a Pulitzer Pri
 Helene Thurman Martin Heinemann, a retired geriatric social worker, died on Thursday at the Crosslands retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa., near Philadelphia. She was 88 and lived in New Canaan and Washington, Conn., before moving to Crosslands in 1977. Her death followed a 
 Elizabeth S. Freidus, an innovative teacher of children with learning disabilities who included parents and educators in her instruction, died on Oct. 13 in a nursing home in Burlington, Vt. She was 88 and had lived in New York City. She died after a long illness, said Joan Saltzman
 Nelle Fisher, a versatile dancer and choreographer whose performing experience ranged from Martha Graham to Broadway to television musicals, died on Wednesday at Aldercrest, a nursing home in Edmonds, Wash. She was 79. She died of complications of Parkinson's disease, said her siste
 Mildred Natwick, a versatile actress who created an engaging gallery of eccentric, whimsical and spunky characters in plays, films and television for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Miss Natwick, a small woman with sharp features and a mischi
 Mary G. Roebling, former chairwoman of the National State Bank, one of New Jersey's largest independent banks, and a former governor of the American Stock Exchange, died on Tuesday at her home in Trenton. She was 89. The cause was renal failure, The Associated Press reported.       
 Kathleen L. Schwaninger, an advocate for the disabled who played a critical role in the decade-long effort to close down the Willowbrook State School for the mentally retarded on Staten Island and who went on to help found an agency to aid seriously ill children, died Sunday in a plane cras
 Pearl Primus, a pioneering dancer, choreographer and teacher whose anthropological work exposed Americans to the realities of black life in America and to the richness of African and Caribbean dance, died on Saturday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74. Miss Primus died aft
