Patricia Easterbrook Roberts, a landscape designer and author, died of cancer Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Patricia Easterbrook Roberts, a landscape designer and author, died of cancer Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital
Betty Rhodes, a cabaret singer who played in the original production of ''Jacques Brel Is Alive and Well and Living in Paris,'' died of cancer Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 52 years old and lived in Manhattan. Betty Rhodes, a cabaret singer who played in
Dorothy Elizabeth Bliss, a retired curator of the American Museum of Natural History, died of cancer last Saturday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. She was 71 years old and lived in Wakefield, R.I. Dorothy Elizabeth Bliss, a retired curator of the American Museum of Nat
Lily Laskin, a French musician who helped make the harp a featured solo instrument in concert halls, died today in a Paris nursing home. She was 94 years old. Lily Laskin, a French musician who helped make the harp a featured solo instrument in concert halls, died today in a P
Members of the dance and theater worlds gathered yesterday afternoon at the City Center to honor Nora Kaye, the American ballerina who died last year. Known for her dramatic power, Ms. Kaye, who was born in New York City in 1920, was a member of American Ballet Theater from its incept
Patricia Powers, a short-story writer and the wife of Bertram A. Powers, president of New York Typographical Union No. 6, died of a heart attack Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. Patricia Powers, a short-story wri
Suria Saint-Denis, consultant director of the drama division of the Juilliard School, died Dec. 29 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. She was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Suria Saint-Denis, consultant director of the drama division of the Juilliard School, died D
Ruth Wright, a retired theater owner, died of cancer Dec. 31 at her home in Great Neck, L.I. She was 75 years old. Ruth Wright, a retired theater owner, died of cancer Dec. 31 at her home in Great Neck, L.I. She was 75 years old. Born in Little Neck, Queens, she was a 
Virginia Haviland, an author and retired director of the Children's Literature Center at the Library of Congress, died of a stroke at her home in Washington on Wednesday. She was 76 years old. Virginia Haviland, an author and retired director of the Children's Literature Cente
Marion B. Reith, who founded the English in Action program, died of pneumonia Dec. 21 at Pomona (Calif.) Valley Community Hospital. She was 91 years old and lived in Claremont, Calif. Marion B. Reith, who founded the English in Action program, died of pneumonia Dec. 21 at Pomo
Florence Eiseman, a designer of children's clothes who was known for excellent workmanship, top quality fabrics and simple but elegant styles, died of emphysema Friday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee, Wis. She was 88 years old and lived in Milwaukee. Florence Eiseman, a desi
Laura Chapman, a former dean of the School of Nursing at Rutgers University, died of leukemia Jan. 1, at Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. She was 78 years old and lived in Piscataway, N.J. Laura Chapman, a former dean of the School of Nursing at Rutgers University, died of leu
Agatha Singer, a retired New York City physician who for many years worked in child-health care in the city's Health Department, died Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Agatha Singer, a retired New York City physician who for many years w
Florence Knapp, a retired teacher who was recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's oldest person, died Monday at the Dock Terrace nursing home here. She was 114 years old. Florence Knapp, a retired teacher who was recognized by the Guinness Book of World
Gladys Vaughan, the first woman to direct a New York Shakespeare Festival production, died Dec. 30 in her home in Manhattan. She was 64 years old. Gladys Vaughan, the first woman to direct a New York Shakespeare Festival production, died Dec. 30 in her home in Manhattan. She w
Jane Soames Nickerson, a writer and historian, died Sunday at her home in Locust Valley, L.I. She was 87 years old. Jane Soames Nickerson, a writer and historian, died Sunday at her home in Locust Valley, L.I. She was 87 years old. Mrs. Nickerson, a native of England, 
Katherine Guy Fenimore Cooper, a horticulturist and member of the boards of many charitable groups, died Friday at her home in Cooperstown, N.Y. She was 92 years old. Katherine Guy Fenimore Cooper, a horticulturist and member of the boards of many charitable groups, died Frida
Beth Campbell Short, who covered Eleanor Roosevelt for The Associated Press and held a top White House job in Harry S. Truman's Presidency, died of cancer Monday. She was 79 years old. Beth Campbell Short, who covered Eleanor Roosevelt for The Associated Press and held a top W
Katherine Guy Fenimore Cooper, a horticulturist and member of the boards of many charitable groups, died Friday at her home in Cooperstown, N.Y. She was 92 years old. Katherine Guy Fenimore Cooper, a horticulturist and member of the boards of many charitable groups, died Frida
Dr. Clara Mae Taylor-Olson, professor emeritus of nutrition at Teachers College, Columbia University, and a leading figure in the field of nutrition education, died after a long illness Jan. 6 in a Pittsburgh hospital. Dr. Taylor-Olson was 89 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.        
Ida Betzak, a painter, died Sunday of a cerebral hemorrhage at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. Ida Betzak, a painter, died Sunday of a cerebral hemorrhage at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. Mrs. Betzak, who was born in Russia and grew up in Go
Gertrude Waldeyer, an educator and conservationist, died Sunday at the Hilaire Nursing Home in Huntington, L.I. She was 79 years old and had lived in Queens. Gertrude Waldeyer, an educator and conservationist, died Sunday at the Hilaire Nursing Home in Huntington, L.I. She was
Janice Raskin, a singer who performed on radio programs, died of colon cancer yesterday at a nursing home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 77 years old. Janice Raskin, a singer who performed on radio programs, died of colon cancer yesterday at a nursing home in Del Mar, Calif. She w
La Meri, the dancer, teacher, writer and dance ethnologist, died in a San Antonio hospital on Jan. 7. She was 89 years old. La Meri, the dancer, teacher, writer and dance ethnologist, died in a San Antonio hospital on Jan. 7. She was 89 years old. Described as ''the in
Patricia Anne Hoffman Friedman, executive vice president and a partner in International Contract Furnishings, an importer and manufacturer of modern office and residential furniture, died of cancer Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 44 years old. Patricia Anne Hoffman Fried
Alice Citron Begun, a former teacher in New York City and a member of the faction-ridden New York Teachers Union in the 1930's, died of a heart attack Sunday at her home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 79 years old. Alice Citron Begun, a former teacher in New York City and a 
Mary Brosnan Kratschmer, a former designer and manufacturer of mannequins, died of cancer of the spine Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mary Brosnan Kratschmer, a former designer and manufacturer of mannequins, died of cancer of th
Ann Rork Light, who was a silent film actress, died here Saturday at the Vanderbilt University Hospital. She was 79 years old and was being treated for emphysema and lung cancer. Ann Rork Light, who was a silent film actress, died here Saturday at the Vanderbilt University Hos
Colleen Moore, the star of the silent screen who personified the ''flapper'' of the 1920's, died of cancer yesterday at her ranch near Paso Robles, Calif. She was 85 years old. Miss Moore appeared in about 100 films beginning in 1917 and ending with one of her comparatively few talkin
Colleen Moore, the star of the silent screen who personified the flapper her ranch near Paso Robles, Calif. She was 87 years old. Colleen Moore, the star of the silent screen who personified the flapper her ranch near Paso Robles, Calif. She was 87 years old. Miss Moor
Mab Wilson Moltke, a former advertising and publicity executive in New York, died Jan. 1 at her home in Blackrock, County Dublin, after a long illness. She was 78 years old and had moved to Ireland in 1970. Mab Wilson Moltke, a former advertising and publicity executive in New
Bernice Franklin, a retired supervisor of pediatric nursing at New York Hospital, died of complications arising from Alzheimer's disease Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 79 years old. Mrs. Franklin was associated with New York Hospital for four years, retiring in 1940. Earlie
