 A. J. Levinson, who pressed a national campaign to improve what she called ''the quality of death'' by promoting living wills, and who educated both professionals and the public on ways to bring dignity to dying, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was wid
 Lenore Patricia Kroh Freudenheim, a flower arranging expert and author of four books on the subject, died on April 26 in Longboat Key, Fla. She was 97 and lived in Longboat Key. The holder of diplomas from four schools of Japanese flower arranging, she taught and lectured widely and
 Torunn Atteraas Garin, a chemical engineer who worked on notable food projects, died last Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 54 and also had a home on Tortola, in the British Virgin Islands. She cause was lung cancer, her family said. Working for General Foods fr
 Barbara Anne Castle, a onetime Labor cabinet minister and determined socialist whose radical, ill-timed attempt to tame Britain's mighty trade unions doomed her political career, died yesterday. She was 91. She died peacefully in her sleep at her home in Buckinghamshire, her family 
 Sharon Anne Hogan, a Chicago university librarian who helped usher the country's libraries into the electronic age, died on April 27 while convalescing with friends in Paradise Valley, Ariz. She was 57 and lived in suburban Oak Brook. The cause was cancer, said the University of Ill
 Davida S. Herwitz, who built a major collection of modern art from India with her husband, Chester, died on Sunday in a hospital in Rockville, Md. She was 71 and lived in Worcester, Mass. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, her family said. The Herwitzes fi
 Pauline Tish, a modern-dance teacher who studied and performed with some of the pioneers of American modern dance, died on April 1 in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Manhattan. A native New Yorker, Ms. Tish attended Hunter College and New York University. During the 1930's, she s
 Edna Mae Robinson, the Cotton Club star who was once married to the boxing champion Sugar Ray Robinson, died in her home in Manhattan on Thursday. She was 86. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her son, Ray Robinson II. Ernestine Holly was born in 1915 
 Shirley Hayes, who waged a long battle -- called quixotic by some, psychotic by others -- that eventually succeeded in banning cars from Washington Square Park in Manhattan, died on Monday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 89. She marshaled children in strollers, including h
 Prof. Florence G. Roswell, who spent more than half a century teaching and writing, particularly about ways to diagnose and overcome reading disabilities, died May 4 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 97. A former director of the reading clinic at the City Coll
 Kimberly Miles, recipient of a lung transplant in November 2000 in an unusual operation in which her sister and a friend donated parts of their lungs, died on Monday in Minneapolis. She was 33. The cause was cystic fibrosis. Ms. Miles was born with the disease, a genetic dis
 Maida Stocker Abrams, a prominent collector of Dutch art and an advocate for the disabled, died last Thursday in Boston. She was 63 and lived in Newton, Mass. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Abrams and her husband, George Abrams, a lawyer, built one of the countr
 Rose Ellis Matzkin, national president of Hadassah, the women's Zionist organization of America, from 1972 to 1976, died on Monday in a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88. A native New Yorker, Mrs. Matzkin was the daughter of Louis and Jennie Cohen. She attended New Haven 
 Sharon L. Monsky, a scleroderma sufferer who founded an organization that raised millions of dollars to look for a cure for the disease, died on Saturday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 48 and lived in Santa Barbara. The cause was systemic scleroderma, said Charles Spaulding, a vic
 Laura Johnson, a flamboyant New York social figure who reveled in personal publicity but refused to have her many philanthropies made public, died May 12 at her home in Manhattan. She was believed to be in her late 80's, but although she celebrated her birth date, July 17, her birth year re
 Niki de Saint Phalle, a Franco-American artist internationally known for her colorful, monumental, cartoonlike sculptures and environments, died on Tuesday in San Diego, Calif. She was 71. The cause was pulmonary failure after an illness of several months, said Harry Mathews, the wr
 Zypora Spaisman, who did everything to keep Yiddish theater alive, from producing plays to selling tickets to sweeping floors to her great love, acting (including not a few Jewish-mother roles), died on May 18 in Manhattan. She was 86. The Yiddish stage was the center of Mrs. Spaism
 Antonia Pantoja, an advocate for New Yorkers of Puerto Rican origin whose educational organization Aspira won a landmark lawsuit in the 70's that brought bilingual education to New York City public schools, died on Friday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause was ca
 Nancy White, the white-gloved editor of Harper's Bazaar during the 1960's, when it captured the spirit of the decade with evocative photographs of models in bikinis, boots and big watches, not to mention spacesuits, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Miss White e
 Beverly Brown, a modern-dance choreographer and longtime lead performer with the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, died on May 17 in Kansas City, Mo. She was 61. A longtime resident of Manhattan, Ms. Brown moved to Kansas City two months before her death. The cause was a stroke, her sist
 Josephine R. Abady, a theater director who staged plays on and off Broadway and was a leader in the nonprofit theater movement, died on Saturday in her home in Manhattan. She lived in Manhattan and Stockbridge, Mass. She was 52. The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, the actr
 Mildred Wirt Benson, who wrote 23 of the first 30 Nancy Drew novels -- those spine-chilling tales of the fearless teenage sleuth who motored about in a blue roadster solving crimes -- died on Tuesday in Toledo, Ohio. She was 96. Nancy Drew, seldom just Nancy, inspired readers, many 
 Lois Gould, a best-selling novelist, essayist and memoirist known for her acutely observed portrayals of the emotional complexities of women's lives, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan. She had fought cancer fo
