Julia Davis Stuart, president of the League of Women Voters of the United States from 1964 to 1968, died Saturday at her home in Spokane. She was 79 years old. Julia Davis Stuart, president of the League of Women Voters of the United States from 1964 to 1968, died Saturday at 
Ann Straube, who survived the sinking of the Titanic, died Tuesday at the age of 92, relatives said Wednesday. She lived in Chicago. Ann Straube, who survived the sinking of the Titanic, died Tuesday at the age of 92, relatives said Wednesday. She lived in Chicago. Mrs
Helen Jerome Eddy, an actress known for her portrayals of genteel heroines in films like the 1916 version of ''Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm,'' died of heart failure on Jan. 27 at the Episcopal Home. She was 92 years old. Helen Jerome Eddy, an actress known for her portrayals of 
Marion C. Conger, a retired senior editor for Readers Digest Condensed Books, died on Thursday at the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 74 years old and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y.. Marion C. Conger, a retired senior editor for Readers Digest C
Antonetta Ferraro, the mother of Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Representative and Vice-Presidential candidate, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the home of her daughter in Forest Hills, Queens. She was 84 years old. Antonetta Ferraro, the mother of Geraldine
Kate Simon, a writer of popular, literate and vivid travel guides and two memoirs that were hailed by reviewers as lucid, lively and humorous, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old. Kate Simon, a writer of popular, literate and vivid travel gu
Helen Markel, a magazine writer and editor whose articles appeared in The New York Times Magazine and The Readers Digest, among other publications, died of cancer of the spine on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71 years old. Helen Markel, a magazine writer and editor 
Jean Galloway Bissell, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, died of cancer Sunday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. She was 53 years old and lived in Washington. Jean Galloway Bissell, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for
Lillian Lidman Greneker, a sculptor and inventor who created movable mannequins, died on Jan. 28 at the nursing home of the Actors' Fund in Englewood, N.J. She was 95 years old. Lillian Lidman Greneker, a sculptor and inventor who created movable mannequins, died on Jan. 28 at
Barbara Lewis Golub, a fund-raiser for the New York Philharmonic, died of a heart attack on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76 years old. Barbara Lewis Golub, a fund-raiser for the New York Philharmonic, died of a heart attack on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She w
Marion K. Morgan, an interior designer who specialized in the decorative arts of the 18th century, died Jan. 21 at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She was 84 years old. Marion K. Morgan, an interior designer who specialized in the decorative arts of the 18th centur
Ruth Hall Bleecker, a consultant on planning weddings and parties and founder of the Long Island Junior Dances, died of congestive heart failure on Monday at a nursing home in Woodbury, L.I. She was 90 years old and lived in Laurel Hollow, L.I. Ruth Hall Bleecker, a consultant
Beatrice Witkin, a composer of electronic music, died of complications from the flu on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Beatrice Witkin, a composer of electronic music, died of complications from the flu on Wednesday at S
Felicia Clark, an urban-planning consultant, died of complications from a stroke on Tuesday at her home in Boston. She was 58 years old and also had a house on Tuckernuck Island, Mass. Felicia Clark, an urban-planning consultant, died of complications from a stroke on Tuesday 
Jane Yockel, an arts administrator known for her support of avant-garde dance, theater and music, died of a heart attack on Jan. 31. She was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jane Yockel, an arts administrator known for her support of avant-garde dance, theater and music, d
Maria Gambarelli Fenton, who was prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and headed the bills that opened the Capital and Roxy theaters and Radio City Music Hall, died after a cerebral hemorrhage on Sunday at Huntington Hospital in Huntington, L.I. She was 89 years old.      
Elizabeth Bryan Patten, a Chattanooga philanthropist and civic leader, died Thursday at Memorial Hospital in Chattanooga. She was 82 years old. Elizabeth Bryan Patten, a Chattanooga philanthropist and civic leader, died Thursday at Memorial Hospital in Chattanooga. She was 82 
Mary Ground, an elder of the Blackfeet Indian tribe, died Wednesday. She was 107 years old. Mary Ground, an elder of the Blackfeet Indian tribe, died Wednesday. She was 107 years old. In her teens, she was matched to marry a stranger, John Ground. They were married on 
Eleanore Gassenheimer, who under her professional name of Pat Hurley was public relations director of radio station WQXR for 30 years until her retirement in 1973, died after a long illness on Friday at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore, L.I. She was 78 years old and lived in West Islip
Margaret Feurer Plass, an anthropologist and a historian of African art, died Saturday at her home in Philadelphia. She was 94 years old. Margaret Feurer Plass, an anthropologist and a historian of African art, died Saturday at her home in Philadelphia. She was 94 years old.  
Julie V. Marsteller, dean of disabled students at Barnard College, died of complications resulting from muscular dystrophy yesterday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Julie V. Marsteller, dean of disabled stu
Muriel Parker Roth, a pianist and composer, died of heart failure on Friday. She was 82 years old and lived in Albuquerque, N.M. Muriel Parker Roth, a pianist and composer, died of heart failure on Friday. She was 82 years old and lived in Albuquerque, N.M. Mrs. Roth w
Valborg Anderson, professor emeritus of the English department at Brooklyn College, died of Alzheimer's disease yesterday at a nursing home in Colton, Ore. She was 78 years old and moved to Colton from Manhattan two years ago. Valborg Anderson, professor emeritus of the Englis
Jean Wallace, a screen actress who had feature parts in a dozen Hollywood productions and was married to two stars, Franchot Tone and Cornel Wilde, died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage Wednesday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 66 years old. Jean Wallace, a screen
Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif. Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery nov
Lily Mae Lassiter Foregger, whose family business, the Foregger Company, manufactured anesthesia equipment and other medical supplies, died of respiratory complications on Feb. 14 at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin. She was 89 years old and lived in Waterbury Center, Vt. Li
Dorothy Avery Slesinger, a teacher and co-founder of one of the first coeducational summer camps on the East Coast, died of pneumonia on Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dorothy Avery Slesinger, a teacher and co-founder of one of the 
Margaret Craske, a leading ballet teacher in England and the United States, died on Sunday at Grand Strand General Hospital in Myrtle Beach, S.C. She was 97 years old.  A pupil of Enrico Cecchetti, the great Italian ballet pedagogue, Miss Craske danced for a short time with the Diaghi
Adele Rosenfeld Meyer, who was active in New York civic affairs and helped run a Manhattan poultry business, died Thursday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. She was 92 years old and had lived in Portland since 1977. Adele Rosenfeld Meyer, who was active in New York civic aff
D. Veola Lederer, a former executive of a Manhattan leather boutique and a former museum vice president, died of a heart attack on Wednesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., while spending the winter in Pompano Beach. She was 81 years old and lived in Stockbridge. Mass.  Mrs. Lederer was the
Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger, who shaped the history of The New York Times throughout a long and active life, died of respiratory failure in her sleep yesterday morning at her home in Stamford, Conn. She was 97 years old. Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger, who shaped the history of The New
