 Ernesta Drinker Ballard, who saved the Philadelphia Flower Show and transformed it from a horticultural beauty show into a spectacular international educational event, died Aug. 11 at the Cathedral Village retirement community in Philadelphia. She was 85 and formerly lived in the Chestnut H
 Nell I. Mondy, a Cornell biochemist who extolled the nutritional benefits of the potato to consumers worldwide and pushed hard to dispel its reputation as a weighty clump of empty calories, died on Aug. 25 at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 83. The cause was complicati
 Ruth Levine Sussman, an acting New York State Supreme Court justice who organized and headed the state system's first Integrated Domestic Violence Court, in the Bronx, died on Aug. 26 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 46. The cause was breast cancer, according
 Dr. Margot S. Kruskall, a Harvard hematologist and an expert on blood banks who was an early advocate for patients' donations of their own blood before surgery, a practice propelled by the spread of AIDS in the 1980's, died on Aug. 27 at her home in Dover, Mass. She was 56. The cause was ov
 Kathy Wilson, who as head of the National Women's Political Caucus in the 1980's lobbied on behalf of issues affecting women's lives, from the proposed equal rights amendment to the right to an abortion, died on Sept. 1 while vacationing in Rehoboth Beach, Del. She was 54 and lived in Alexa
 Ruth Farbman, an aide to Mayor Robert F. Wagner who was prominent in New York City civic affairs during the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 2 in Manhattan. She was 92. Ms. Farbman's daughter-in-law, Marie Farbman, confirmed the death. During the Wagner administration, 1954-65
 Toni Trent Parker, an author who helped advance the cause of books featuring African-American children, died on Thursday at her home in Stamford, Conn. She was 58. The cause was a brain tumor, her family said. To increase the visibility of black children in children's books,
 Honey Bruce Friedman, a former nightclub entertainer who in 2003 helped win a posthumous pardon for her ex-husband, the comedian Lenny Bruce, on a 39-year-old obscenity conviction, died on Sept. 12 at a hospital in Honolulu. She was 78 and a Honolulu resident. The cause was complica
 Sandra Feldman, the blunt-spoken former president of the American Federation of Teachers and its local in New York, who emerged from the shadow of her mentor, Albert Shanker, to become a deft and intimidating labor powerhouse on her own, died Sunday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 6
 Molly Yard, for more than half a century an outspoken advocate for liberal causes, who came to national prominence as president of the National Organization for Women in the late 1980's, died yesterday at a nursing home in Pittsburgh. She was 93 and had resided most recently in Arlington, V
 Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was congestive heart failu
 Mary Lee Settle, a master of historical fiction who recreated time and place with visceral, almost fanatical accuracy, died Tuesday at a hospice in Charlottesville, Va. She was 87 and made her home in Charlottesville. The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Christopher Weathersbee.
 Nora Kerr, a longtime editor at The New York Times and a former editor of its Sunday Travel section, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 61 and a Manhattan resident. Ms. Kerr, who retired from the paper this month, died after having been il
