 Frances B. Schreuder, a Manhattan socialite convicted in 1983 of persuading her teenage son to kill her wealthy father in Utah because of what she considered his stinginess, died on Tuesday at a hospice in San Diego. She was 65. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, M
 Janet Akyuz Mattei, an astronomer who studied variable stars, ones that wink and twinkle like cosmic eccentrics, and helped coordinate an international fan club that kept track of them, died on March 22 at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. She was 61 and lived in Littleton, Mass.      
 Sylvia Froos, who as a child star in the 1920's sang on early radio broadcasts, starred on the vaudeville stage and appeared in a movie with Shirley Temple, died on Sunday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 89. The cause was a stroke, said Ilyse Veron, her great
 Joan Richman, a retired executive at CBS News who oversaw the network's early coverage of the Apollo space program with Walter Cronkite, died on Friday at her home in Lumberville, Pa. She was 64. The cause was cancer, Kyle Good, a family friend, said. A native of St. Louis, 
 Mildred Jeffrey, who for seven decades was an influential behind-the-scenes combatant in the women's, labor and civil rights movements, died on March 24 in Detroit. She was 93. Her death was announced by the United Automobile Workers union, where she was the first woman to head a de
 Larisa Bogoraz, an early Soviet-era dissident whose moral stubbornness helped define the movement, died Tuesday at the age of 74. Colleagues said the cause of death was a series of strokes. Ms. Bogoraz is best remembered for her participation in the first public demonstration of the
 Timi Yuro, the pop singer whose throaty and soulful delivery made ''Hurt'' and other songs hits in the early 1960's, died on March 30 at her home in Las Vegas. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said her niece, Michelle Duval. Ms. Yuro's hits, like ''I Apologize,'' ''For the 
 Beatrice Riese, an abstract painter whose important collection of African art is now owned by the Brooklyn Museum, died on April 2 at the hospice at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86. The cause was abdominal cancer, said Roger Mosesson, a friend. Ms. Riese was bo
 Eileen Darby Lester, a photographer who helped immortalize theatrical productions, taking pictures of more than 500 Broadway shows and photographing stars like Olivier, Dietrich and Brando, died on March 30 at a nursing home in Long Beach, N.Y. She was 87. Her death followed a fall 
 Mary McGrory, an unapologetic liberal who chronicled 50 years of scandal, war, Congressional turmoil and political heartbreak as a columnist for The Washington Star and The Washington Post, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital. She was 85. Ms. McGrory won the P
 Estée Lauder, the last great independent titan of the cosmetics industry, who convinced generations of women that her beauty creams were ''jars of hope'' in their quest for the eternal look of youth, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Her family, in announcin
 Rosemary Park Anastos, an advocate for women's education and the liberal arts and a former president of Barnard College and Connecticut College for Women, died April 17 at her home in Los Angeles, said a niece, Joan Citron. She was 97. Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came
 Mary Selway, the grand dame of British casting agents, who selected bouquets of cinematic talent for directors like Steven Spielberg, Roman Polanski and Clint Eastwood, died on April 21 in London, where she lived. She was 68. The cause was cancer, said Nina Baron, a spokeswoman for 
