 Toots Barger, a perennial world champion in a decidedly regional sport, died on Monday at a retirement home in Frederick, Md. She was 85 and had long been known as the Queen of Duckpins. Her family said the cause was cancer. If duckpins doesn't ring a bell, chances are you d
 Pauline Julien, who sang songs of passion and of tender love, died on Wednesday in Montreal. The chanteuse, who was 70, was most strongly identified with the songs she sang in the cause of a separate and independent Quebec. Ms. Julien took her own life at her home after leaving a no
 IN November 1939, shortly after Adolf Hitler touched off World War II, a British writer commented about the two World Wars: ''The last one was a soldier's war. This one is everybody's.'' ''And so it was,'' said an octogenarian, Ruth Kornblum, who lives in White Plains. She flew plan
 Elaine Benson, whose gallery in Bridgehampton, N.Y., was a fixture on the East End summer art scene for more than three decades, died on Monday at her home in Bridgehampton. She was 74 years old and died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, her family  said. Elaine Klebanoff was born i
 Lila Katzen, a sculptor whose abstract works have adorned spaces from Fordham University's campus at Lincoln Center to the United States Consulate in Hamburg, Germany, died Sept. 20 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72  and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer,
 Haru Matsukata Reischauer, a journalist and author who was influential in diplomatic affairs in the 1960's as the wife of the United States Ambassador to Japan, died on Sept. 23 in La Jolla, Calif. She was 83. The cause of death was heart failure, a former colleague said. Mr
 Jean Andrus Crockett, the first chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and first chairwoman of the finance department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at her home in Media, Pa. She was 79. While at Wharton, Ms. Crockett conduc
 Alicia Parla, a sinuous Cuban-born beauty who had a brief but incandescent run as the international Queen of the Rumba, died of cancer on Tuesday at her home in Miami. She was 84 and was recalled as the teen-age sensation who became the toast of New York and Paris, captivated crowned heads 
 Elizabeth Chapman Gilkeson, an educator associated with the Bank Street College of Education for more than four decades and the founding director of its School for Children, died on Oct. 7 at her home in lower Manhattan. She was 95. As a senior faculty member of Bank Street College,
 Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Ro
 Joan Hickson, a stage, screen and television actress who became an international celebrity when she played Miss Marple, Agatha Christie's sharp-witted elderly detective, in a BBC television series from 1984 to 1992, died over the weekend at a hospital in Colchester, Essex, said her son, Nic
 Megs Jenkins, a British stage, film and television actress who specialized in playing kindly, matronly characters, died on Oct. 5, said a spokeswoman for the Gordon Rodwell Funeral Service in Felixstow, Suffolk, where her funeral was held. She was 81. Miss Jenkins played many parts 
 Cleusa Millet, a former nurse who became the spiritual leader of one of the most celebrated Candomble temples in Brazil, died on Oct. 15 in Salvador da Bahia. She was 67. Newspapers reported the cause of death as heart failure. Known as Mother Cleusa, Mrs. Millet presided ov
 Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone, the grande dame of sex education, died yesterday at the Kendal at Longwood nursing home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 94 and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for the last decade. Indefatigable and fired by a zeal for sexual responsibility and reali
 Georgianna Morris Crowther Kappes, a longtime teacher of history in private schools, died on Oct. 17 at Greenwich Hospital. She was 94 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mrs. Kappes, known as Nancy, was born in Lutherville, Md., and graduated from National Cathedral School in Washington 
 Winnie Ruth Judd, who spent three decades in an Arizona state mental hospital as the notorious ''trunk murderess'' in one of the most sensational criminal cases of the 1930's, died in Phoenix on Friday. She was 93. With the Great Depression at full strength in the fall of 1931 and n
 Evelyn Sabin, who performed with Martha Graham's first dance company in the mid-1920's, died on Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Sabin was a student of Graham's at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N.Y., when
 Deidre S. Murphy, assistant managing editor for news at The Star-Ledger of Newark, died on Thursday at St. Mary Hospital in Hoboken. She was 47. Ms. Murphy was hospitalized after suffering a stroke on Wednesday night as she walked near her home in Hoboken, said Scott Ladd, metropoli
