Bebe Simon, owner of the Uncle Sam Umbrella Shops in Manhattan, died Friday at St. Clare's Hospital after a heart attack. She was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bebe Simon, owner of the Uncle Sam Umbrella Shops in Manhattan, died Friday at St. Clare's Hospital after a he
Faith Whitney Ziesing, a former trustee of Sarah Lawrence College, died of cancer last Friday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 75 years old. Faith Whitney Ziesing, a former trustee of Sarah Lawrence College, died of cancer last Friday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She w
Hildegarde Flanner Monhoff, a poet and author, died of a heart attack May 27 in her home in Calistoga, Calif. She was 87 years old. Hildegarde Flanner Monhoff, a poet and author, died of a heart attack May 27 in her home in Calistoga, Calif. She was 87 years old. Mrs. 
Elizabeth Morgan, a veteran actress and longtime officer and board member of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, died of a stroke on Sunday at her Manhattan home. Elizabeth Morgan, a veteran actress and longtime officer and board member of the American Fed
Edith Monroe Moe, a writer, died of pneumonia Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. She was 91 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Edith Monroe Moe, a writer, died of pneumonia Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. She was 91 years old and li
Elizabeth Hartman, who was nominated for an Academy Award for best actress in 1966 for her role in ''A Patch of Blue,'' died in a fall from her fifth-floor apartment in Pittsburgh on Wednesday. Elizabeth Hartman, who was nominated for an Academy Award for best actress in 1966 
Madge Kennedy, a stage and silent film star in the early part of the century, died of respiratory failure Monday at the Motion Picture and Television Country Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 96 years old and lived in Hollywood. Madge Kennedy, a stage and silent film 
Raya Dunayevskaya, an author who was secretary to Leon Trotsky, died Tuesday in Sheridan Road Hospital, Chicago. A resident of Evanston, Ill., she was 77 years old. Raya Dunayevskaya, an author who was secretary to Leon Trotsky, died Tuesday in Sheridan Road Hospital, Chicago.
Geraldine Page, dedicated to acting for more than four decades and long identified with the work of Tennessee Williams, died of a heart attack Saturday at her home in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. Both a Broadway star and an Academy Award winner, she was 62 years old. Gera
Eunice Clark Jessup, a writer who was active in the civil-rights movement, died of complications from pneumonia Monday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in Wilton, Conn. Eunice Clark Jessup, a writer who was active in the civil-rights movement, died o
Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh. Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, pr
Vera Caspary, a novelist, playwright and screenwriter best known for her films ''Laura,'' ''Letter to Three Wives'' and ''Les Girls,'' died of a stroke Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 87 years old and lived in Greenwich Village. Vera Caspary, a novelist, playwright
Theresa Ross, a teacher at the Dalton School for 43 years, died June 8 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan after a stroke. She was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Theresa Ross, a teacher at the Dalton School for 43 years, died June 8 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan 
Margaret Seton Ijams, a former vice president of the Community Service Society, New York's oldest family welfare organization, died Tuesday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 92 years old and also lived in Lawrence, L.I. Margaret Seton Ijams, a former vice president of the Co
A woman accused of throwing six of her seven children into a bayou, where two of them drowned, was sentenced to probation today after pleading no contest to murder and attempted capital murder. A woman accused of throwing six of her seven children into a bayou, where two of th
Sister Mary Theresa Brentano, a Benedictine nun who was a pioneer in the use of electronics in the classroom, died of a stroke Sunday at the Mount St. Scholastica Convent, Atchison, Kan. She was 84 years old. In 1957, while she was principal of St. Scholastica Academy in Covington, La
Rachel Eytan Fishman, a novelist and professor of Israeli and Yiddish literature at Hofstra University, died of a stroke Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. Rachel Eytan Fishman, a novelist and professor of Israeli and Yi
Evelyn Levitt, a champion bridge player, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Wilmington (Del.) Hospital. She was 67 years old and lived in Wilmington. Evelyn Levitt, a champion bridge player, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Wilmington (Del.) Hospital. She was 67 years old and 
Margaret Harrison, who served for 20 years as personal secretary to Arthur Hays Sulzberger, publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961, died Tuesday at her home in New York City after a long illness. She was 72 years old. Margaret Harrison, who served for 20 years as pe
Anne David, an author and the wife of Hal David, the lyricist, died of lung cancer Friday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She was 62 years old. Anne David, an author and the wife of Hal David, the lyricist, died of lung cancer Friday at her home in Manhattan aft
Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms advisor to President Reagan, died here today at her home. She was 75 years old. Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms advisor to President Reagan, died here today at her home. She was 75 year
Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms adviser to President Reagan, died here today at her home. She was 75 years old. Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms adviser to President Reagan, died here today at her home. She was 75 year
Dr. Eleanor A. Bliss, former dean of the graduate school of Bryn Mawr College and a pioneer researcher in the clinical use of sulfa drugs before World War II, died of kidney failure Saturday at her home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 88 years old. Dr. Eleanor A. Bliss, former dean 
Elizabeth (Libba) Cotten, who won a Grammy Award in 1985 for a collection of her blues and folk songs, died today at a Syracuse hospital. She was 95 years old. Elizabeth (Libba) Cotten, who won a Grammy Award in 1985 for a collection of her blues and folk songs, died today at 
Isabel Sayer Cox, who was active for many years in civic and social affairs in Montclair, N.J., died Sunday of pneumonia at a retirement village in Bedford, Mass. She was 92 years old. Isabel Sayer Cox, who was active for many years in civic and social affairs in Montclair, N.
Robina Gallup, the wife of a co-chairman of the Gallup Poll, died Saturday when a car she was driving crashed into a train at a crossing near Halkirk, Scotland. She was 45 years old and lived in Skillman, N.J. Robina Gallup, the wife of a co-chairman of the Gallup Poll, died S
