 Queen Alexandra of Yugoslavia, the widow of Peter II, whose reign as the last King of Yugoslavia was ended in 1941 by invading German troops, died Saturday at her home outside London. She was 71. The Queen had been "very ill" with cancer for several years, said her daughter-in-law, 
 Diana Brewster Clark, an educator and an authority on dyslexia, died at her home in Manhattan on Sunday. She was 56. Her daughter, Elise S. Pettus of Manhattan, said the cause of death was uterine cancer. Dr. Clark was recognized for her research on remedial education for dy
 Grace Hayward Mack, a horticulturalist known for her work in hybridizing chrysanthemums, died on Friday at her home in New Canaan, Conn. She was 91 years old. Her family said the cause of death was heart failure. Mrs. Mack became interested in hybridizing chrysanthemums as a
 Julia Davis Adams, a writer, died Saturday at Jefferson Memorial Hospital in Ranson, W. Va. She lived in Charles Town, W. Va., and was 92. Her family attributed her death to natural causes. Mrs. Adams, who was born in Clarksburg, W. Va., attended Wellesley College and gradua
 Enid Britten-Stux, who danced with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Ballet de Lyons, died on Jan. 22 at her home in Manhattan. She was 46. Her brother-in-law, Stefan Stux, said the cause of death was a brain hemorrhage. Ms. Britten was 
 Sydelle Stephany Reisman, owner of the Westport (Conn.) Research Group and active in civic affairs in Westport, died on Wednesday in Norwalk Hospital. She was 65 and had homes in Westport and Carefree, Ariz. Her family said the cause was cancer. Mrs. Reisman, known as Syd, w
 Hortense Freezer Kobrin, who was a leader in charitable causes, died on Thursday while on vacation in Miami Beach. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Her family said heart failure was the cause of death. Mrs. Kobrin was a founder of the First Hebrew Day Nursery for orphans i
 Marian W. Freedman, a civic leader in central New Jersey, died on Tuesday at the Applewood Estates retirement community in Freehold Township. A resident of Freehold, she was 86. A graduate of the Middlesex General Hospital School of Nursing, Mrs. Freedman was a volunteer in World Wa
 Elsie Coulson Bloch, a fabric stylist and colorist, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan and Kempton, Pa. The cause was heart failure, her family said. A native of Malta, Mrs. Bloch was raised in the Channel Islands and London. She worke
 Sally A. Provence, professor emeritus in the Child Study Center and the Pediatrics Department at Yale University, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 76 and lived at Branford. The cause was cancer, said Dr. Albert J. Solnit, a longtime colleague.  
 Kate Wilkinson, an actress who appeared in the theater and on television, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was bone cancer, said her son, Jeffrey, of Brookline, Mass. Mrs. Wilkinson appeared in many plays, both in New York and in regional theat
 Jean Gould, who wrote biographies of Robert Frost, Edna St. Vincent Millay and Amy Lowell, as well as of the artist Winslow Homer, died on Monday at a nursing home in Perrysburg, Ohio. She was 83. The cause was cancer of the jaw, said her nephew, Dr. James Mann of Perrysburg.       
 Joy Garrett, an actress who performed in soap operas and on the New York stage, died on Thursday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in the Westwood section of Los Angeles. She was 47. Rich Elbaum, a spokesman for the medical center, said the cause was liver failure. For the past
 Dorothy K. Willner, a sociologist who persuaded the United Nations to adopt guidelines protecting the rights of consumers, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. She had cancer of the small
 Anna Goldfeder, a leader in cancer and radiobiology science who conducted research for 66 years, died on Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 95. Dr. Goldfeder, whose career spanned generations of cancer researchers, made important contributions in her field until 
 Patricia Schepps Vaill, a jewelry designer, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74. Her daughter, Amanda Vaill Stewart, said the cause was complications of a stroke. Until she became ill in 1990, Mrs. Vaill was acting as a design consultant. She was known for he
 Dr. Roberta G. Simmons, a sociologist who conducted groundbreaking research into the emotional effects of organ transplants, died Monday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh. She was 55 and lived in Pittsburgh. She had breast cancer for 15 years, said Gabriella Stern, a
 Dorothy Van Doren, author, editor and widow of the poet and critic Mark Van Doren, died on Sunday at the Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Conn., where she lived. She was 96. The cause was pneumonia, said her son John, of Evanston, Ill. Mrs. Van Doren was born in San Francisco, but
 Elizabeth Cadwell Dance, who was prominent in volunteer work in the Detroit area, died Thursday at Bon Secours Hospital in Grosse Pointe, Mich. She was 67 and lived in Grosse Pointe. Her daughter, Elizabeth Ellen Dance, said she died of lung cancer. Mrs. Dance was a former p
 Adina Blady Szwajger, a pediatrician who struggled to save young lives in the Children's Hospital in the Warsaw ghetto and survived to recount the horrors, died Feb. 18 in Lodz, Poland. She was 75 and lived in Warsaw. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, said Jerzy Warman, a fr
 Barbara Redmond Ryan, a volunteer for social causes, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 59. Her husband, Allan A. Ryan 3d, said the cause of death was cancer. Mrs. Ryan was a member of the women's committee of the Boys' Club of New York for 30 years and serve
 Constance Ford, an actress who appeared for 25 years in the role of Ada Hobson, an indestructably upbeat mother in the NBC daytime serial "Another World," died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 69. The cause was cancer, said Murray Schapiro, her business manager. Ms. F
 Eren Ozker, an actress and a puppeteer with the Muppets, died on Thursday at her home in New York City. She was 44 and also kept a home in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said her husband, William Bogert. Ms. Ozker (pronounced Oscar) was born in Ankara, Turkey, and grew u
