 Jenny Bell Bechtel Whyte, a fashion designer whose creations included dresses made from African printed textiles and clothing made from antique fabrics from three other continents, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Singer Division, a hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 and lived on the Upper East
 Katrin Cartlidge, a British actress celebrated for the boldness of her performances in films by Mike Leigh and other independent directors, died on Saturday in London. She was 41 and lived in London. The Associated Press reported that she died of septicemia resulting from pneumonia.
 Kim Hunter, whose eclectic 60-year career included an Oscar, two Emmy nominations and a Broadway triumph with her portrayal of Stella in the legendary 1947 debut of ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' died on Wednesday at her New York apartment. She was 79. A founding member of the Actors
 Bernice Chesler, the author of widely read guidebooks about American bed-and-breakfast inns, died on Sept. 4 at her home in Newton, Mass. She was 69. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Lynda Morgenroth. Mrs. Chesler's work won praise around the country. Her four bed-and-br
 Pearlee Toliver, a northeastern Louisiana radio announcer known as the ''jewel of the dial,'' who attracted a cult following because of the idiosyncratic way in which she wrote and read advertisements, died Sept. 9 at her home in Monroe, La. No one seemed to know how old she was, bu
 Lolita Torres, a leading actress and singer from Argentina who became an international symbol of that nation's golden age of moviemaking in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Buenos Aires. She was 72. The cause was a lung infection related to a chronic rheumatoid condition, the Spanish
 LaWanda Page, the acid-tongued comedienne who, as the cantankerous Aunt Esther, traded barbs with Redd Foxx on the 1970's sitcom ''Sanford and Son,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 81. The cause was complications of diabetes, The Associated Press reported. Ms. Page
 Quita Brodhead, a painter of colorful figurative and abstract paintings for more than 80 years, died on Sept. 4 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 101 and lived in Wayne, Pa. She had a vibrant style that continued to evolve through her life. Her early work was mostly nudes and still lifes, i
 Elizabeth Coblentz, an Amish homemaker who wrote a syndicated cooking column by hand beneath a kerosene lantern, a kitchen chronicle that touched on everything from the merits of Belgian horses to coping with grief, died on Tuesday in Blue Springs, Mo. She was 66. The cause was an a
 Florence Lessing, a favorite dancer of the influential jazz-dance choreographer Jack Cole and a featured dancer on the Broadway stage and in nightclubs and films, died on Sept. 5 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney failure, sa
 Jackie Raven, a performer and promoter of tap dancing, died on Aug. 19 at her home in Setauket on Long Island. She was 51. The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, the trombonist Ray Anderson. Ms. Raven began dancing fairly late in life as a student in Japanese studies
 Marjorie Slaiman, the longtime costume designer for the Arena Stage theater company in Washington, died on Sept. 13 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 77 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from heart surgery, her family said. In her 26-year career with A
 Joan Littlewood, the producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday in London at the home of her assistant. She was 87. Ms. Littlewood's Theater Workshop
 Stephanie Reinhart, an innovative arts administrator who had an international impact in promoting new trends in contemporary dance as co-director of the American Dance Festival and as co-artistic director for dance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, died on
 Mollie Wilmot, the socialite with the oversize white sunglasses who rose to celebrity in 1984 when a tanker ran aground at her Palm Beach, Fla., mansion, died on Sept. 17 at her apartment in Manhattan. She was always reluctant to give her age, and ages from 73 to 78 have been report
 Erna Furman, an expert on grief in children and a child psychoanalyst who helped develop a teamwork therapy involving teachers, parents and therapists, died on Aug. 9 in Cleveland. She was 76. The cause was lung cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Hanna Perkins Center for Child Devel
 Representative Patsy T. Mink, a liberal Democrat from Hawaii who was likely to be elected to a 13th term in November, died Saturday at the Straub Clinic and Hospital in Honolulu. She was 74. The cause was viral pneumonia brought on by chickenpox, said Andy Winer, a spokesman for the
