 Dr. Margaret Olds Strahl, a retired New York psychiatrist and analyst known for her research on the clinical treatment of schizophrenia, died on Monday at the William Hill Health Care Center in Easton, Md. She was 77. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, her family said. Dr. S
 Dorothy Buehring Phillips, a lifelong champion of the disabled and the founder and first State Director of the New York Special Olympics, died on Wednesday at Fannie Allen Hospital in Colchester, Vt. She was 83 and lived in Albany until three months ago, when she moved to Williston, Vt.    
 Mildred McAfee Horton, who helped revolutionize the role of women in the military as the first director of the WAVES, died on Friday at the St. Vincent DePaul Nursing Home in Berlin, N.H. She was 94. Under her stewardship of the WAVES (an acronym for Women Accepted for Voluntary Eme
 Joy Ungerleider-Mayerson, a former director of the Jewish Museum in Manhattan and a philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in Larchmont, N.Y. She was 74. The cause was cancer, said her son Andrew Ungerleider. At her death, Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson was president of th
 Sister Parish, the acclaimed and enduring American interior decorator who began her career when she was a young Depression-era mother and later came to redesign rooms of the White House during the Kennedy Administration, died on Thursday at her home in Dark Harbor, Maine. She was 84 and als
 Deborah Norden, an administrator for the New York State Council on the Arts, died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. She was 40 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Norden was also an architect and worked for the firms of Paul Segal, Richard Dattner and Charles Boxenbaum in New York City 
 Amy Clampitt, known for her dense, ornate and allusive poetry, died on Saturday at her home in Lenox, Mass. She was 74 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Anne Close, her editor at Alfred A. Knopf. Ms. Clampitt published her first full-length
 Jessica Tandy, who enhanced the American theater and enriched the American screen as few actresses have, died yesterday at her home in Easton, Conn. She was 85. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, the actor Hume Cronyn. Miss Tandy triumphed on Broadway in 1947 as
 Margaret Janus, who helped her brother, Dr. Jack Kevorkian, in assisted suicides, died today at Sinai Hospital here. She was 68 and lived in Troy, Mich. The cause was a heart attack, said her physician, Dr. Stanley Levy. Mrs. Janus, who was called Margo, kept all the patient
 Ruth K. Friedlich, a writer whose articles were published in several magazines, including Reader's Digest and Better Homes and Gardens, and who helped write some of the earliest television commercials, died on Wednesday at the Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. Mrs. Friedlich, who
 Edith Sherin Markson, a promoter of regional theater in the United States and the founder of an exchange program for American and Eastern European theater artists, died on Saturday during a visit to Santa Fe, N.M. She was 81 and lived in New York City. The cause was heart failure af
 Dolly Haas, a petite and vivacious actress on stage and screen, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 84. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, the Broadway artist Al Hirschfeld. For many decades the two were an elegant couple on the aisle at all Broadway opening
 Ann Schreiber, a regional administrator in the Northeast United States and the Caribbean for the Department of Health and Human Services, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 58 and lived in Park Slope, Brooklyn. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband
 Felisa Rincon de Gautier, Mayor of San Juan, P.R., from 1946 to 1969 and the only woman to hold that post, died on Friday in a nursing home in San Juan, where she had lived in recent months. She was 97. She died after suffering a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. 
 Barbara Fassbinder, one of the first health care professionals to be infected with the AIDS virus while on the job, died on Tuesday at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City. She was 40 and lived in Monona, Iowa. The cause was complications from AIDS, the hospital
 Dorothy Dehner, a gifted sculptor of Surrealist and geometric abstractions in bronze and wood, whose professional career began in the 1950's after a stormy marriage to David Smith, the New York School artist, was found dead yesterday in a stairwell outside her apartment in Manhattan. She wa
 Sandra Fisher, a figurative painter and printmaker who was also the wife of the painter R. B. Kitaj, died on Monday at the National Hospital for Nervous Disorders in London. She was 47 and lived in London. The cause has not been determined, Marilyn McCully, a family friend, said yes
 Joan Wolff, the director of the Allan Stone Gallery in Manhattan for 25 years, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. She was 64. The cause was cancer, said Claudia Stone, a daughter of the owner of the art gallery. Mrs. Wolff went to work at the gallery, which is now on Ea
 Barbara Drew Hoffstot, an architectural and community preservationist, died on Sept. 18 at her Pittsburgh home. She was 75 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla.; New Waterford, Ohio, and County Galway, Ireland. She died after a long illness, The Palm Beach, Fla., Post reported.    
 Margaret Brown Klapthor, an expert on White House history and a former department chairman at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at her home in Washington. She was 72. The cause was stomach cancer, said a son, Paul Edward Klapthor of Sumter, S.C. Mrs. Klapthor retir
