 Ellen Straus, a passionate environmentalist and co-owner of the first organic dairy farm west of the Mississippi River, died on Saturday at her home in Marshall, Calif., north of San Francisco. She was 75. The cause was brain cancer, her family said. A pioneer in the purchas
 Joanna Bistany, who became a broadcast news executive when such positions at television networks were almost exclusively occupied by men, died of cancer at her parents' home in Langhorne, Pa., on Sunday, ABC News said yesterday. She was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Bistany spent 1
 Anna Hamburger, a longtime director of International Rescue Committee operations in Europe that aided refugees from Soviet bloc nations, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. She helped thousands of people who had fled Eastern Europe begin new lives in America.       
 Aileen Fisher, who was the author of more than 100 books for children, died Dec. 2 at her home in Boulder, Colo. She was 96. Her works include stories, plays, poetry, biographies, adaptations, picture books and multimedia programs, many of them highly praised for their imaginative q
 Fay Gillis Wells, a pioneer aviator, a White House correspondent and a writer who covered Hollywood accompanied by her pet leopard, Snooks, died on Dec. 2 in Fairfax, Va. She was 94. She had last lived in Alexandria, Va., her son, Linton Wells II, said, but her life had many takeoff
 Lynne D. Abraham, a founder of the New York Race for the Cure and the Greater New York City Affiliate of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 60. The cause was breast cancer, which she had for 12 years, her family said.     
 Florence Stephenson Mahoney, an unwavering advocate for national health research and programs, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Washington. She was 103. Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Healt
 Mieke van Hoek, a Dutch-born modern-dance choreographer and teacher, died on Nov. 13 in Manhattan. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan and Cañones, N.M. The cause was complications from a stroke, her family said. Trained in the Netherlands, Ms. van Hoek taught choreography an
 Dolly Dawn, a big-band vocalist whose honey-sweet voice each noon, six days a week, bounced invitingly across America in the late 1930's and early 40's, died last Wednesday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. She was 86. Her death was announced this week by her family. She 
 Lucy Grealy, the poet and essayist who wrote a noted 1994 memoir, ''Autobiography of a Face,'' about her experience growing up with extreme facial disfigurement and repeated surgery to repair it, died at a friend's house in Manhattan on Wednesday night. She was 39. No cause of death
 Maria Bjornson, a designer of sets and costumes for opera, theater and ballet, died at her home in London on Dec. 13. She was 53. While acclaimed for her designs for ''Phantom of the Opera,'' for which she won two Tony Awards in 1988, she was mainly active in noncommercial theater. 
 Mary Marvin Breckinridge Patterson, a New York debutante, photojournalist and broadcaster from war-torn Europe, peripatetic diplomatic spouse and philanthropist, died on Dec. 11 at her home in Washington. She was 97. Mrs. Patterson was born in New York to John Cabell and Isabella Go
 CAROL ENSEKI, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is an island of tranquillity in the sunny bedlam of a little building that echoes with the din of ecstatic children. She chooses words precisely. She utters them with preternatural calm. Her gentle delivery is so deadpan that it tak
 Anne Fremantle, a British-born author, art critic, essayist and editor whose conversion to Roman Catholicism drew her to themes of faith and the saints, died on Thursday in London. She was 93 and had returned to Britain after nearly 50 years in Manhattan. Mrs. Fremantle was known in
 Margaret Taylor Hancock, whose many-hued family tree sprang to life in a book by her daughter that became a meditation on the meaning of race in America, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. She was 90 and lived in North Haven. Mrs. Hancock was the product of a multiracial, multi-ethn
 Fay Bennett Watts, who led national efforts to help farm laborers and the rural poor, died on Dec. 19 in Shelburne, Vt. She was 88 and lived in Wake Robin, a retirement community in Vermont. Known professionally as Fay Bennett, she held posts at the National Sharecroppers Fu
