 Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic, a professor of neuroscience at Yale University whose pioneering research on brain and memory functions helped pave the way for understanding schizophrenia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, died last Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 66 and lived
 Martha Chase, who was half of a scientific team that in 1952 used a kitchen blender to help prove that DNA is the molecule that carries genetic information, died on Aug. 8 in Lorain, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. She was 75. The cause was pneumonia, said her sister, Ruth Daziel of Mi
 Yousra Abdel Raouf al-Kidwa, the sister of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, died at the Palestine Hospital in Cairo today after a month of treatment for various disorders associated with old age, said the Palestinian ambassador to the Arab League, Muhammad Sobeih. She was 77. M
 Lady Diana Mosley, one of the famous Mitford sisters and a glamorous 1930's socialite who scandalously abandoned her husband, embraced fascism and married Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists, died in Paris on Monday, her family said. She was 93. A spokeswoman 
 IT'S a beautiful day in the neighborhood  actually, that 2003 meteorological rarity, the sun, is shining -- and the uninitiated might imagine that this would give Kathy Bronander an easy sale. ''People think that because it's a sunny day, a Realtor can drive people around and sell a house, 
 Dr. Josefina B. Magno, an oncologist who established some of the first hospice programs in the United States and helped bring the hospice concept into the medical mainstream, died on July 27 in Manila. She was 83. Born in the Philippines, Dr. Magno moved to the Washington area in 19
 Laura Rapaport Borsten, who was in the first group of 40 recruits accepted to be a Wave, a member of the women's Navy corps, died on Aug. 11 at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 91. Her husband, Orin, said Mrs. Borsten, who lived in Los Angeles, kept up with other veterans and beli
 Roxie C. Laybourne, whose scientific investigations into bird collisions with airplanes helped start forensic ornithology and enabled engineers to develop aircraft capable of withstanding such accidents, died on Aug. 7 at her farm in Manassas, Va. She was 92. In 1960, when a plane c
 Nadia Younes, an Egyptian who was chief of staff for the senior United Nations representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, died in the bomb attack in Baghdad on Monday, the United Nations said on Wednesday. She was 57. Mr. Vieira de Mello also died in the attack. Earlier
 Connie Reeves, who was very likely America's oldest cowgirl, died in San Antonio on Aug. 17, 12 days after she was thrown from her horse, Dr Pepper. She was 101. She was riding her favorite horse, a 28-year-old paint, on the morning of Aug. 5 when Dr Pepper threw her over its head. 
 Generosa Ammon Pelosi, the widow of R. Theodore Ammon, a millionaire Manhattan financier who was killed at his home on Long Island in 2001, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 46. The cause was breast cancer, said Paul B. Bergman, the lawyer for Daniel Pelosi
 Nina Fonaroff, an early Martha Graham dancer and a choreographer and teacher, died on Aug. 14 at a hospital in London, where she lived. She was 89. Born in New York, Ms. Fonaroff began her dance training at 11 with Michel Fokine and Vera Fokina, his wife, and studied the Isadora Dun
 Jinx Falkenburg, one of America's highest paid cover-girl models during World War II, and later, with her husband, Tex McCrary, a pioneer talk-show star on both radio and television, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in the nearby village of Mill Neck. She di
 IN the eye of the festive hurricane that is the annual Caribbean parade on Labor Day, that soca-blaring, steel-drum-banging, sequins-and-feathers annual cavalcade down Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn, sits a not-a-bit ruffled Yolanda Lezama-Clark, R.N. No, she is not the medical officer
 Mary Viscountess Eccles, a bibliophile who built up what is widely considered the world's finest collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to Samuel Johnson and his biographer and friend, James Boswell, died on Aug. 26 at her home, Four Oakes Farm, in Somerset County, N.J. She was 9
