 Betty Furness, who went from doing television commercials for Westinghouse refigerators to pioneering the field of consumer affairs as a television journalist, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in New York City and Hartsdale, N.Y..  
 Marie T. Mandry, who over 36 years in the advertising business rose from a secretary to senior vice president of Young & Rubicam in New York, died Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was cancer, said her brother, Gerard Mandry. Miss Mandry joined Young &
 Patricia Harper, who was among the first women to become a television news anchor, died yesterday in her home in Spain. She was 59. The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX-TV in New York City and a longtime friend of Ms. Harper. Ms. Harp
 Betty Furness, who went from minor acting roles to reknown as a television saleswoman and then became a formidable consumer advocate, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in New York City and Hartsdale, N.Y. The cause was stom
 Pat Harper, who was among the first women to become a television news anchor, died on Saturday in her home in Capileira, Spain. She was 59. The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX in New York City, and a longtime friend. Ms. Harper, whos
 Lois R. Murphy, an expert on environmental law and a partner in the New York law firm of Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 49 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was an acute respiratory incident, her family said. She was a graduate of Pace Univer
 Luba Potamkin, a broadcasting spokeswoman in the 1970's for her family's Cadillac auto dealerships on the East Coast, died yesterday at her home in Miami. She was 73. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said her husband, Victor Potamkin. Three years after her husband founded 
 Melba Johnson Kgositsile, a civil rights and anti-apartheid advocate, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 54. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Ipeleng Kgositsile. Mrs. Kgositsile was the executive director of the Council on Interracial Books fo
 Sonia Raiziss, a New York literary figure for many years, died on March 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85 and also had a home in Bucks County, Pa. The cause was cardiac arrest, said Alfredo de Palchi, her collaborator and former husband. A poet, translator and critic, 
 Shirley M. Sills, the executive vice president of PTN Publishing Company in Melville, L.I., died yesterday in her home in Manhasset, L.I. She was 64. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Stanley S. Sills. Mrs. Sills was an executive for six years at PTN Publishing, which 
 Aida Anthony Whedon, an artist and a teacher to generations of children, died yesterday at her home in Port Washington, L.I. She was 78. Her New Orleans accent unaltered despite half a century in New York, Mrs. Whedon was a bustling mother hen for thousands of children at the Whedon
 Dr. Annemarie P. Weil, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, died on Friday at a convalescent home in Bryn Mawr, Pa., near Philadelphia. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. She had had a long illness, said her daughter, Dr. Susan Caroline Weil. Dr. Weil was in private pract
 Betti Hellinger Salzman, who worked at the United Nations for 30 years, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was in her 80's. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Ann Phillips, a daughter. Mrs. Salzman worked with the United Nations Tourist and Visitors Department
 Deane W. Lord, a public relations official at Harvard University for 35 years, died on Tuesday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. Mrs. Lord, who lived in Cambridge, was 67. The cause was cancer, said a university spokesman. Mrs. Lord began her career at Harvard as a pu
 Peggy D. Pinn, an educator at Howard University and the founder of a television and film training program for minority students, died on April 6 at Shady Grove Hospital in Rockville, Md. She was 65 and lived in Rockville. The cause was a stroke, said Sigrid Sanders of Manhattan, a f
 Irene Satz, who was instrumental in making line-for-line copies of European couture fashions available at the Ohrbach's discount department store at a fraction of the original's prices, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 80. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, M
 Shirley Ann Dungan Kheel, a lawyer and civic worker, died yesterday at her Manhattan home. She was 49. Mrs. Kheel died of cancer, said her husband, Robert. Her son David was the first child to be born in New York after conception by laboratory methods. Mrs. Kheel was
 Alice Herrington, the founder and longtime president of Friends of Animals, one of the country's best known animal-protection societies, died on Tuesday at DeKalb Medical Center in Decatur, Ga. Ms. Herrington, a former resident of Manhattan and Little Silver, N.J., was 75 and lived in Litho
 Elissa Ichiyasu, a graphic designer, died at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan on April 13. She was 41 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from breast cancer, her family said. A native of Chicago, Ms. Ichiyasu was a graduate of Columbia University and studied 
 Sylvia L. Milberg, associate director of development for Pace University in New York, died on Tuesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. Mrs. Milberg, who lived in Westport, Conn., was 66. The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Stanley Milberg. Mrs. Milberg had
 Dr. Barbara Ann Liskin, a specialist in psychiatry for adolescents and young adults who was long associated with Columbia University, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 41 and lived in Ridgefield, N.J, where she had a private practice. The cause was brea
