Dr. Catharine Deaver Lealtad, a pediatrician who supervised medical services for displaced children in Germany at the end of World War II, died Monday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 93 years old and had been a patient at the V.A.'s extended care center in
Dr. Marion McIlveen, a pediatrician and clinical professor of pediatrics, died of heart failure Saturday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. She was 78 years old and lived in Ridgewood. Dr. Marion McIlveen, a pediatrician and clinical professor of pediatrics, died of heart f
Elaine de Kooning, a painter, teacher and writer on art, died of lung cancer yesterday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. She was 68 years old and lived in East Hampton. Elaine de Kooning, a painter, teacher and writer on art, died of lung cancer yesterday at Southampton (L.I.) H
Marie Poland Fish, an oceanographer and marine biologist whose research in underwater sound detection helped the United States Navy to distinguish schools of fish from submarines, died yesterday at the Mediplex Nursing Home in Westport, Conn. She was 88 years old and had lived for man
Marie Syrkin, an author, editor and teacher who was active in the Zionist cause for many decades, died of cancer Wednesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 89 years old and lived in Santa Monica. Marie Syrkin, an author, editor and teacher who was active 
Grace Hayes, an actress, died on Wednesday in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 93 years old. Grace Hayes, an actress, died on Wednesday in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 93 years old. Miss Hayes performed in many vaudeville revues and Broadway musical comedies during the 1920's and ea
Hannah Grad Sverdlin, a radio and television writer known professionally as Hannah Grad Goodman, died of kidney failure on Jan. 19 at Doctors Hospital. She was 78 years old and lived on the Upper West Side. Hannah Grad Sverdlin, a radio and television writer known professional
Gladys Buchanan North, who helped her husband, Sterling North, write popular and award-winning children's books, died of a stroke early yesterday morning at Morristown Memorial Hospital. She was 81 years old and lived in Harding Township, N.J. Gladys Buchanan North, who helped
Glenna Collett Vare, a pioneer in American women's golf before the professional era and a charter member of the Women's Golf Hall of Fame, died at her home in Gulfstream, Fla., on Friday. She was 85 years old. Glenna Collett Vare, a pioneer in American women's golf before the 
Barbara W. Tuchman, whose skill at writing histories of men at war and on the brink of war won her two Pulitzer Prizes, died of complications of a stroke yesterday afternoon at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. She was 77 years old and was admitted to the hospital Saturday after suffering t
Elizabeth Chapman Little, chairwoman of the board of the Bruce Museum in Greenwich, Conn., from 1983 until last year, died of cancer on Saturday at Greenwich Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived in Greenwich. Elizabeth Chapman Little, chairwoman of the board of the Bruce M
Lee Goode Kingsley, who worked in the New York music world for many years, was killed on Jan. 30 by a hit-and-run motorist at 67th Street and Broadway. She was 80 years old. Lee Goode Kingsley, who worked in the New York music world for many years, was killed on Jan. 30 by a h
Irene Mattone, a teacher and president of the Queens division of the American Cancer Society, died of breast cancer Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 56 years old and lived in Douglaston, Queens. Irene Mattone, a teacher and president of the Queens division of the Ameri
L. Janette Richardson, a professor of literature who specialized in Chaucer, died of cancer Jan. 28 at the home of a friend in Piedmont, Calif. She was 63 years old and lived in Oakdale, Calif. L. Janette Richardson, a professor of literature who specialized in Chaucer, died o
Madeleine M. Low, a trustee of the Hudson Guild neighborhood house for 55 years, died of heart failure on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 years old. Madeleine M. Low, a trustee of the Hudson Guild neighborhood house for 55 years, died of heart failure on Tuesday a
Dr. Leoni Neumann Claman, a physician and allergist, died of cancer Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Leoni Neumann Claman, a physician and allergist, died of cancer Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She wa
Emily Kimbrough, an author, lecturer and former radio commentator, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90 years old and had suffered from lung cancer, said a longtime friend, Sophia Yarnall Jacobs. Emily Kimbrough, an author, lecturer and former radio commentator,
Margit Van Leight-Frank, a clinical psychologist who was a founding member of the C. G. Jung Institute of New York, died Wednesday at her home in Weston, Conn. She was 91 years old. Margit Van Leight-Frank, a clinical psychologist who was a founding member of the C. G. Jung In
Joan Wetmore, an actress who portrayed many elegant women in her nearly 30 years on Broadway, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old. Joan Wetmore, an actress who portrayed many elegant women in her nearly 30 years on Broadway, died of cancer Mond
Cecilia Lester Sarasohn, a former deputy director of guidance for the New York City Board of Education who directed college preparatory programs, died of complications from leukemia on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 79 years old. Cecilia Lester Sarasohn, a former 
Ida Ehre, one of West Germany's best-known actresses, died of a heart attack today. She was 88 years old. Ida Ehre, one of West Germany's best-known actresses, died of a heart attack today. She was 88 years old. She is credited with being a major force in reviving the 
Ida Ehre, one of West Germany's best-known actresses, died of a heart attack on Thursday. She was 88 years old. Ida Ehre, one of West Germany's best-known actresses, died of a heart attack on Thursday. She was 88 years old. She is credited with being a major force in r
Dinah Halpern, a Yiddish actress who appeared in New York, Chicago and Europe, died of cancer on Saturday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Chicago. She was 79 years old and lived in Chicago. Dinah Halpern, a Yiddish actress who appeared in New York, Chicago and Europe, died of canc
Dr. Edith Taglicht Schmidt, founding director of the Educational Institute for Learning and Research, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Dr. Edith Taglicht Schmidt, founding director of the Educational Institute for Learning and Research, died Saturd
Helene Eliat van de Velde, a psychologist and writer who elucidated Freudian insights into the literary portrayal of human behavior, died of cardio-respiratory failure on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95 years old. Helene Eliat van de Velde, a psychologist and write
Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday. She was 69 years old. Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday. She was 69 years old. Ms. Conroy, a
Dr. Edith Taglicht Schmidt, founding director of the Educational Institute for Learning and Research, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Dr. Edith Taglicht Schmidt, founding director of the Educational Institute for Learning and Research, died Saturd
Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday. She was 69 years old. Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday. She was 69 years old. Ms. Conroy, a
Doris Muser deKeyserlingk, the first woman granted tenure at Williams College, was found dead Tuesday at her home in Williamstown. She was 86 years old. Doris Muser deKeyserlingk, the first woman granted tenure at Williams College, was found dead Tuesday at her home in William
Esther Hargrave Greenleaf, a painter, printmaker and ceramist, died yesterday. She was 84 years old and lived in Kennett Square, Pa. Esther Hargrave Greenleaf, a painter, printmaker and ceramist, died yesterday. She was 84 years old and lived in Kennett Square, Pa. Mrs
Clae Rosengarten, a founder of one of the first professional symphony orchestras on Long Island and of the New York Youth Orchestra in Manhattan, died of colon cancer Wednesday at her home. She was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Clae Rosengarten, a founder of one of the 
Joan Woodbury, an actress who starred in dozens of low-budget films, died of respiratory failure on Wednesday. She was 73 years old. Joan Woodbury, an actress who starred in dozens of low-budget films, died of respiratory failure on Wednesday. She was 73 years old. Mis
Rosa Slade Gragg, a civil rights advocate appointed in the 1940's to a national advisory post by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died Monday at Harper Hospital. She was 86 years old. Rosa Slade Gragg, a civil rights advocate appointed in the 1940's to a national advisory post
