 Margaret Bush Clement, an aunt of former President George Bush, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. She was 93 and lived in Hamden, Conn. She died of cancer, a spokesman for the Hawley Lincoln Funeral Home in Guilford, Conn., said. Mrs. Clement was the d
 Joan S. Harrison, associate dean of studies at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 59 and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was complications of lymphoma, her family said. A native of Orange, N.J., sh
 Marjorie Henderson Buell, the creator of Little Lulu, the mischievous cartoon character with corkscrew curls who regularly outwitted the neighborhood boys, died on Sunday in the Elyria (Ohio) United Methodist Home. She was 88. The cause was lymphoma, said John D. Harvith, the co-arr
 R. Louise McManus, a leader in nursing education who spent 36 years on the faculty of Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Natick, Mass. She was 97 and had lived in Manhattan before retiring to Massachusetts. Her death came after a brief ill
 Ida Sciolino Antonucci, a retired senior executive and buyer of clothes for young women at Bloomingdale's department stores, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was a heart attack, her family said. Mrs. Antonucci, known professionally as Ida Scioli
 Alexis Smith, a Hollywood actress of the 1940's and 50's who later won a Tony Award as a star of the Broadway musical "Follies," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 72 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, her doctors said. In a career t
 May Davies Hopkins Martenet, a novelist and short-story writer, died on Sunday at the Westminster-Canterbury retirement home in Virginia Beach, Va., where she had lived since 1985. She was 85 and had been a longtime resident of Manhattan. The cause was complications stemming from lu
 Patricia Stanton McLean, a retired educator and leader in the dental-hygienist profession, died on Tuesday at the Westchester County Medical Center. She was 77 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. The cause of death was heart disease, her family said. Ms. McLean retired in 1977 
 Dr. Helen Quincy Woodard, an authority on bone disease, died at her home in Hartsdale, N.Y., on Sunday. She was 92. Dr. Woodard was a biochemist at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, which she joined after receiving her Ph.D. in chemistry from Columbia Universi
 Arleen Auger, an American soprano who was renowned for both her commanding presence on the opera stage and the subtlety of her song interpretations, died on Thursday at the home of a friend in Leusden, a suberb of Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. She was 53 and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y.       
 Beatrice Bishop Berle, a physician, teacher and author, died on Friday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass.  She was 90 years old. Her death was caused by complications from a stroke, said her daughter, Beatrice Berle Meyerson. Dr. Berle, who ran a neighbhorhood health cli
 Anne M. Johnson, a former vice president of Beginner Books, a children's book division of Random House, died on Sunday at her home in Clifton, N.J. She was 62. She had a brief illness, said Robert L. Bernstein, with whom she had worked at Random House. Mrs. Johnson, a native
 Florence W. Hartstein, a leader in Jewish community organizations in this country and in Israel, died on Friday at the Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her son, Norman. At the time of her death, Mrs.
 Dr. Alva C. Cooper, a pioneer in college career counseling and placement and an advocate for minorities and women, died on Friday in New Millford, N.J. She was 83. Her nephew, John H. Taylor Jr., said she had a long illness. Dr. Cooper was born in New York City and was a res
 Eunice Saunders Carroll, an employee of Sotheby's for 40 years and the director of its Special Client Services Department, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 73. A Sotheby's associate said the cause was pneumonia. During her years with Sotheby's, herpurchases for a
 Vera, the artist and designer whose name has been emblazoned on brightly printed scarves, bed and table linens, draperies and sportswear for nearly 50 years, died on Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in Ossining, N.Y. The cause was car
 Virginia Moore, a poet and biographer, died on Friday at Westmoreland, a nursing home affiliated with Lake Forest Hospital in Lake Forest, Ill. She was 89 and lived in Scottsville, Va. The cause was cancer, said her daughter-in-law, Betty-Ann Moore. Ms. Moore was born in Oma
 Elizabeth Steinway Chapin, a member of the New York State Council on the Arts and a volunteer for many other cultural organizations, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was bone cancer, said her husba
 Margaret M. Bryant, an expert on grammar, linguistics, proverbs and folklore, died on Monday at a retirement center in Clemson, S.C. She was 92. Dr. Bryant was a retired English professor and author. She was a past president of the International Linguistic Association, American Soci
 Muriel Clara Bradbrook, a leading British authority on Shakespeare who taught at Girton College at Cambridge University, died on June 11 in Cambridge. She was 84 and lived there. Professor Bradbrook, who wrote as M. C. Bradbrook, was the first woman to become a professor of English 
 Elizabeth Moffat White, an environmentalist and former trustee of the Wildfowl Trust of North America, died on Thursday at the Anne Arundel Hospital in Annapolis, Md. She was 94 and lived in Chester, Md., and New York City. She died after a heart attack, said her son-in-law, W. Tapl
 Pat Nixon, the quiet consort who stood by her husband, Richard M. Nixon, in the White House and out, through victory, defeat, sorrow and illness, died yesterday at their home in Park Ridge, N.J. She was 81. Mrs. Nixon, who had been ill for several years, died of lung cancer, said Ki
 Ethel Hausman, a founder and major supporter of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, L. I., died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. She died after a brief illness, her family said.  
 Hannah Troy, an influential women's fashion designer and manufacturer who invented the petite size and introduced modern Italian styles to the United States, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Miami Beach, where she lived. She was 93. The cause was a heart attack, her family said.    
 Eileen Nic, a lobbyist on environmental and health issues and longtime consultant to Consumers Union, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 42. The cause was brain cancer, said Robbin Blaine, a colleague at Consumers Union, the nonprofit organization that publishes the ma
 Beatrice Tobey, a painter known for her covers for The New Yorker, died on June 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was in her mid-80's. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said her son, David. Mrs. Tobey, whose original name was Beatrice Szanton, was born in New York City to pa
 Jean Bodfish Brown, a civic leader in New York and Chicago, died on June 18 at her home in Chicago at the age of 52. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Brown was a founding member and chairwoman of the Friends of the Zoo, which worked with the New York Zoological Society to
 Wilma Shannon Warburg, a civic leader and philanthropist, died on Friday at her home in Middleburg, Va. She was 89. Mrs. Warburg was a benefactor and board member of charitable organizations in Middleburg and New York City. She lived in Manhattan for many years. She was on t
