 Halina Rosenthal, a leader in promoting zoning laws and landmarks legislation throughout New York City, died yesterday afternoon at her home in Manhattan. She was 73 years old. She died of cancer, her husband, the sculptor Tony Rosenthal, said. Mrs. Rosenthal was president o
 Teddy R. Zausner, the first president of the Manhattan chapter of Women's American O.R.T, or Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 years old. She died of a brain tumor, a family spokesman said. She was a longtim
 Joan Colebrook, a writer, died on Saturday at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. She was 80 years old and lived in Truro, Mass. She died after a heart attack, her son Jay Colebrook said. Mrs. Colebrook wrote two novels in the 1940's, one about pre-World War II life in Engla
 Martha Graham, a prime revolutionary in the arts of this century and the American dancer and choreographer whose name became synonymous with modern dance, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96 years old. Miss Graham died of cardiac arrest after being treated for two mo
 Dorothy M. Dunbar, creative director of Time-Life Home Video, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 58 years old. She died of cancer, her husband, Ernest, said. Mrs. Dunbar, in 15 years at Time Inc., was also advertising director of Time-Life Video and Time-Life
 Coral Lansbury, an author, Victorian scholar and dean of the Graduate School of English at Rutgers University's Camden campus, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia. She was 61 years old. She died of cancer, her family said. Ms. Lansbury, who had written a number of sc
 Barbara A. Bannon, a retired executive editor of Publishers Weekly, died last Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital from injuries in a fall the day before. She was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Miss Bannon, who was born in Auburn, N.Y., and was a graduate of Manhattanville College
 Lucy Jane Ford Buhler, former president of the Women's Investment League, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73 years old. She died of pnuemonia, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mrs. Buhler was one of the first female investment brokers at Bache & Company, w
 Kathryn Teaze, a Red Cross volunteer whose more than 70 years of service spanned two world wars, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 93 years old and lived in Weston, Conn. She died of pneumonia, a family spokesman said. Her mother started the Red
 Marie Jastrow, who wrote two critically praised books describing immigrant life in turn-of-the-century New York, died at her home in Tucson, Ariz., on March 30. She was 93 years old. Mrs. Jastrow was 82 when her first book, "A Time to Remember: Growing Up in New York Before the Grea
 Nona Balakian, a literary critic, essayist and a former editor on the staff of The New York Times Sunday Book Review, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72 years old. She apparently had a heart attack after a fall, her sister, Anna Nalbantian, said. An authorit
 Katherine Warren, a research scientist and former grants administrator for the National Institutes of Health, died March 23 at Greater Laurel Beltsville Hospital in Laurel, Md. She was 82 years old and lived in Laurel. She died of cardiac arrest, said her daughter, Virginia Egan of 
 Ruth Page, a pioneering American ballet dancer and one of the first ballet choreographers to employ American subject matter, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 92 years old. She died of respiratory failure, said Andrew Mark Wentink, her biographer. Miss Page, who
 Sadie H. Zaidens, a dermatologist and psychiatrist, died on April 1 at St. Clare's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of intestinal bleeding and complications of diabetes, her daughter, Dr. Debra Brand, said. Dr. Zaidens was fi
 Selma Gross, a teacher and administrator in the New York City public school system for 32 years, died on Sunday at the Whitehall Convalescent and Nursing Home in Chicago. She was 57 years old and lived in Chicago. She died of cancer, a family spokesman said. Mrs. Gross was t
 Cora DuBois, an anthropologist, teacher and author who was an authority on Southeast Asia, died Sunday at a nursing home in Brookline, Mass. She was 87 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. She died of pneumonia and heart failure, her secretary, Eric Davis, said. Dr. DuBoi
 Louise Dickinson Rich, the author of "We Took to the Woods," a best seller during World War II, died on Tuesday at her daughter's home in Mattapoisett, Mass. She was 87 years old. She died of congestive heart failure, her daughter, Dinah Anderson, said. "We Took to the Woods
 Grace Hartley Jenkins Mead, a philanthropist and trustee emeritus of Columbia University's Teachers College, died on Wednesday at her home in Morristown, N.J. She was 95 years old and also had residences in Norfolk, Conn., and St. Croix in the Virgin Islands. She died of heart failu
 Katya Delakova, a dancer and choreographer who specialized in Jewish themes, died Wednesday at her home in Titusville, N.J. She was 76 years old. She died of cancer, her husband, Moshe M. Budmor, said. Born in Vienna, Miss Delakova graduated from the Academy of Music and Dan
 Marjorie Lee Collins Bishopric, one of the early residents of the Devon Colony in Amagansett, L.I., died on Monday at her daughter's home in Amagansett. She was 79 years old and lived in Amagansett and Greenwich, Conn. She died of congestive heart failure, her daughter, Lucy Allison
 Sarah Jane Kinoy, a teacher and social worker who was an early leader in the education of children with cerebral palsy, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. She was 96 years old and had lived in Manhattan and Tompkins Corners, N.Y. She died of heart failur
 Natalie Schafer, an actress best known as the stranded millionaire's wife, Lovey, on the long-running television series "Gilligan's Island," died on Wednesday at her home. She was 90 years old. She died of cancer, a family spokesman, Frank Lieberman, said. On "Gilligan's Isl
 When Carol Perkins sat down in the New York Times cafeteria last week, she pulled down her lower lip and exposed two big white blisters. "They're not herpes," she announced, which certainly turned a lot of heads. But that is something she expects. Ms. Perkins is a model with the Eil
 Frauke Petersen Haasemann, the assistant conductor of the Westminster Choir and professor of conducting at the Westminster Choir College, died last Friday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 68 years old. She died of lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the college said. An aut
 Madelle Hegeler Semerjian, who was active in charitable and cultural affairs in Southampton, L.I., died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton. She died of leukemia, her family said. Mrs. Semerjian studied at Vassar Co
 Marjorie Hyde Bond, a fund-raising consultant, died on Sunday at the Community Hospital of Western Suffolk in Smithtown, L.I. She was 80 years old and lived in Peconic, L.I. She died of Alzheimer's disease, her husband, Jules, said. She began her career in 1958 with the Manh
 Devorah Heller, the director of employee relations for the Yonkers public school system, died on Monday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She was 52 years old and lived in Yonkers. She died of breast cancer, said her son, Lawrence. Mrs. Heller joined the Yonkers sch
 Hannah Falk Hofheimer, a philanthropist and a major benefactor of Barnard, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 102 years old. She died of heart failure, said her lawyer, Bernard Gartlir. Mrs. Hofheimer, a 1909 graduate of Barnard College, taught for five years
 Loretta U. Boyce, an educator who helped create a school for gifted and talented black and Hispanic youngsters in Brooklyn, died on Wednesday at Grady Hospital in Atlanta. She was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of heart failure, said her niece, Roslyn Bacon. M
 Ruth Shatz, a cattle breeder and civic leader, died on Sunday at her home in Coral Gables, Fla. She was 86 years old. She died in her sleep, a family spokeswoman said. Before moving to Florida in 1955, Mrs. Shatz and her late husband, Hyman, operated Phileidor Farms in Carme
 Shirley Goodman, a driving force behind the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York for more than four decades, died on Sunday at her Manhattan apartment. She was 75 years old and had had cancer for many years, a spokeswoman at the institute said. "If there is a single p
 Harriet Fleischl Pilpel, a lawyer and civil libertarian who was a prominent advocate of women's rights, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 79 years old. Mrs. Pilpel died of a heart attack, her husband said. Last Wednesday, she received an award from the New Yo
 Barbara Miller Baxter, a lawyer who specialized in estates and trusts, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. She was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Westbrook, Conn. Mrs. Baxter died of cancer, her husband said. At her death, Mrs. Baxter was with the Ma
 Mary Lou Masey, a writer and researcher, died on April 16 after jumping from a hotel window in Philadelphia. She was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Masey suffered from manic depression, said her husband, Jack. She was the author of four children's books published 
 Alice Cutts Wainwright, an environmentalist who wrote the charter for Friends of the Everglades and represented the Audubon Society in South Florida for almost 20 years, died after suffering a heart attack Tuesday at Mercy Hospital here. She was 83 years old. Mrs. Wainwright worked 
 Natalie Donay, an advertising and cosmetics executive, died on Sunday at her home in London. She was 63 years old. Ms. Donay died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said. She began her career as an advertising copywriter for McCann Erickson, a Manhattan-based advertisin
 Emily McLaughlin, an actress who was a star in the television soap opera "General Hospital" for nearly three decades, died of cancer on Friday at her home here. She was 61 years old. Miss McLaughlin, who portrayed Jessie Brewer, had appeared on the ABC series since its first broadca
 Finvola Drury, who helped create and conduct research that led to a treatment for immune deficency in AIDS patients, was found dead on Thursday evening at the home of a friend in Brooklyn. She was 41 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death has not been determined by the
 Lisa Taylor, director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design from 1969 to 1987, died on Friday in a hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas, said David McFadden, the museum's curator of decorative arts. She was 58 years old and lived in Naples, Fla. Mr. McFadden said she died of liver cancer
 Lisa Taylor, director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design from 1969 to 1987, died on Friday in a hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas, said David McFadden, the museum's curator of decorative arts. She was 58 years old and lived in Naples, Fla. Mr. McFadden said she died of liver cancer
 Patricia Golden Levine, an artist known professionally as Pat Golden, died on Friday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 48 years old and also had an estate in Rappahannock County, Va. She died of lymphoma, her family said. Ms. Golden did oil paintings, woodcuts, stained
 Tatiana du Plessix Liberman, the leading hat designer for Saks Fifth Avenue for 20 years, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan and Warren, Conn. She died of congestive heart failure, her family said. Mrs. Liberman, whose original n
 Elinor Remick Warren, who composed more than 200 works for orchestra and voice, died at her home on Saturday. She was 91 years old. Miss Warren was born in Los Angeles, attended Mills College, and studied with musicians in New York and Paris. Her first choral-orchestral work, "The H
 Gladys Marcus, dean of liberal arts at the Fashion Institute of Technology, died on Sunday at New York University Medical Center. She was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Mrs. Marcus joined the faculty at the Fashion I
