 Dorothy Nelkin, a New York University sociologist who chronicled the uneasy relationship between science and society, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was cancer, the university said. Professor Nelkin, a prolific author who began her research
 The Rev. Shirley Bulah Stamps, whose parents' fight for her to ride a school bus became part of the 1954 Supreme Court case that ended school segregation, died on Wednesday in Wilmington, Del. She was 59. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Shirley B
 Elizabeth Fowler, who wrote a harrowing book about being the only woman among 35 passengers on a lifeboat in the Atlantic Ocean for 10 days during World War II, died on May 30 at a convalescent home in West Orange, N.J. She was 95. On an autumn evening in 1942 she was in her early t
 Lois Fried Rosenfield, a theatrical and film producer with her husband, Maurice, died on May 25 at her home in Glencoe, Ill. She was 78. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Rosenfield and her husband backed Broadway productions like ''Barnum'' (1980), a 1983 revival 
 Beverly Bailis Karp, a producer of films and plays and a co-producer of the film ''My Dinner With André,'' died on Tuesday at her home in New York. She was 72. The cause was emphysema, her son David said. Mrs. Karp and George W. George produced ''My Dinner With André,'' st
 Selma Koch, a Manhattan store owner who earned a national reputation by helping women find the right bra size, mostly through a discerning glance and never with a tape measure, died Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 95 and a 34B. In the final years of her life, Mrs. Ko
 Marilyn Cole Fischbach, the founder and former sole owner of the Fischbach Gallery in Manhattan, known for showing work by young artists, died on Sunday in Paris. She was 72 and had lived mainly in Paris for two decades. She had a long illness, said her sister, Sheila Cole. 
 Doris Bass Andrews, who with her husband, Sperry Andrews, pursued the preservation of Weir Farm, where the Impressionist painter J. Alden Weir and friends met for painting and social activity, died on May 25 in Danbury, Conn. She was 82. The farm, in Ridgefield and Wilton, Conn., is
 Anne Belle, a documentary filmmaker who specialized in portraits of New York City Ballet dancers, died last Wednesday at her daughter's home in Los Angeles. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan and Remsenberg, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said Catherine Tambini, a friend and coll
 Gladys Heldman, an instrumental figure in the formation of women's professional tennis, died Sunday at her home in Sante Fe, N.M. She was 81. The Sante Fe Police Department reported that Ms. Heldman died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The police report said she had been experi
 Sara Ann Freed, an award-winning editor of crime fiction, died on Wednesday. She was 57 and lived in New York City. She had been under treatment for leukemia, Warner Books said in a statement announcing her death. She was editor in chief of Mysterious Press and senior editor
 Katharine Hepburn, the actress whose independent life and strong-willed movie characters made her a role model for generations of women and a beloved heroine to filmgoers for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in the Fenwick section of Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 96 and also had
