 Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow. She was 79. The cause was a heart attack, according to the German newspaper Die Welt. 
 Carmen Bucher Wirth, the owner of the Hassler Hotel in Rome, died on June 27 in a Rome hospital. She was 88. Mrs. Wirth was known for building the Hassler Hotel's image as a home for visiting travelers, introducing a personal management style in which every member of the staff was r
 Carole Honig Klein, a biographer and author of other nonfiction works, died on Monday from injuries after being struck by a car on the Upper East Side. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Klein's most recent work was ''Doris Lessing: A Biography'' (Carroll & Graf, 2000). That was
 Gina Cigna, a dramatic soprano whose career flourished in the 1930's and 40's, and who was the first to record the title role of Puccini's ''Turandot,'' died on June 26 in Milan. She was 101. Ms. Cigna, whose given name was Geneviève, was born in Paris in 1900, the daughter of a Fr
 Margaret Kilgallen, an artist who contributed to the vibrant fusion of graffiti art, folk art, painting and installation art that emerged in San Francisco in the 1990's, died Thursday in San Francisco. She was 33. The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said.       
 Dr. Ruth Ann Sanger, a blood researcher and a co-author of a blood-group manual that helped make transfusions safer, died on June 4 in Britain. She was 82. Dr. Sanger was an internationally known expert in blood grouping, having worked for many years at the Medical Research Council 
 Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her companion, Richard Keene. Ms. Foreman came to New York in the mid-1960's
 Asoka Roy, a nurse-midwife who used the skills she learned abroad to help establish the field as a profession in the United States, died on June 22 in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85. Ms. Roy left India, where she was born, in 1955. She earned her nurse-midwife license in New York in 1967
 Caroline R. Jones, who broke race and sex barriers in advertising to become one of the most prominent black women among agency executives, died on June 28 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, friends said. The résumé of
 Tove Jansson, a Finnish author and artist whose tales for children about a family of trolls called the Moomins have been popular in many countries, died on June 27 in Helsinki. She was 86 and lived much of her later life on a rocky Finnish island. As the German magazine Der Spiegel 
 Lindsay Findlay, president of the David Findlay Galleries in Manhattan, was found dead on July 5 at her home in Manhattan. She was 65. She died of natural causes, said Michael N. Findlay, her nephew and successor as head of the gallery. Harriet Lindsay Findlay came from a fa
 Maria Chabot, who in the 1930's began the popular Indian markets on the Plaza in Santa Fe, N.M., and later became a close associate of the painter Georgia O'Keeffe, died on Monday in an Albuquerque hospital. She was 87. Her goal was to be a writer, but her varied life included long 
 Katharine Graham, who transformed The Washington Post from a mediocre newspaper into an American institution and, in the process, transformed herself from a shy widow into a publishing legend, died yesterday after suffering head injuries in a fall on a sidewalk on Saturday in Idaho. She was
 Grace Borgenicht Brandt, a longtime New York art dealer, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 86  and had homes in Manhattan and Watermill, N.Y. Ms. Borgenicht was a tall woman whose carriage and general equanimity were almost queenly. She saw herself as both a friend and protector o
 Beate Uhse, who as a destitute war widow sold birth control pamphlets from a bicycle before going on to develop Europe's biggest emporium of erotic goods, died on Monday in a hospital in Switzerland. She was 81. Her company, Beate Uhse A.G., based in the northern German city of Flen
 Aveline Kushi, who taught and promoted macrobiotic cooking and helped found one of the nation's first natural food stores, died of cancer on July 3 in Brookline, Mass. She was 78 and lived in Brookline and Becket, Mass. A macrobiotic diet emphasizes whole grains and fresh vegetables
 Joan Bove, who helped make hair coloring respectable in the 1930's by introducing stylists in America to a product called Clairol that she and her husband discovered in Paris, died Saturday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan. In 1931, she and h
 Eudora Welty, whose evocative short stories, notable for their imagery, sharp dialogue and fierce wit, made her a revered figure in contemporary American letters, died yesterday at a hospital near her home in Jackson, Miss. She was 92. She was plagued by health problems and had been
 Frances R. Horwich, the amiable educator who engaged millions of preschoolers as the host of the pioneering children's program ''Ding Dong School'' in the 1950's, died yesterday. She was 93. Ringing an old-fashioned school bell to start the show, she would look into the camera, warm
 Dr. Bernice L. Neugarten, an authority on aging who identified a growing trend among older people to pursue more active lives and introduced the concept of the young-old and the old-old, died on July 22 at her home in Chicago. She was 85. When Dr. Neugarten began her research on agi
 Fanny Brennan, an American painter of small, meticulously executed surrealist still lifes, who spent her childhood in the legendary circle of artists and writers gathered around Sara and Gerald Murphy in Paris, died on July 22 at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 80. Ms. Brennan was 
