 Barbara Krakauer, a violinist who played chamber music and taught in New York and for nearly 25 years in summer programs in Provence, France, died on Monday. She was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Dr. William Krakauer. Mrs. Krakauer
 Frances Ann Cannon Dougherty, a theatrical producer, died on April 25 at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 82. Ms. Dougherty began her career in the late 1950's with the Phoenix Theater. In 1961 she and another producer, Michael Dewell, founded the National Repertory Theater. T
 Rita Hunter, the British soprano famed especially for her performances as Brünnhilde and Norma, died last Sunday in Sydney, Australia. She was 67. Possessed of an immense voice, forthright and ringing, Ms. Hunter in her prime, which coincided roughly with the 1970's, seemed ready t
 Dorothee Metlitzki, a retired professor of English at Yale and a prominent scholar of medieval Arabic, Middle English and Herman Melville, died on April 14 in Hamden, Conn. She was 86. Her most definitive work focused on the intersection of Arabic and English culture during the Midd
 Lillian R. Berkman, a pioneering businesswoman, a collector of Renaissance art and an arts patron involved with many of New York's cultural institutions, died on May 1 at her home in Manhattan. She was 79. The cause was liver failure. Ms. Berkman founded the American Tractor
 Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England. Dr. Jahoda, who taught at New York University in the 1950's, was 94. In a long career as a researcher, 
 Sarah Tomerlin Lee, whose career in fashion, advertising, retailing and interior design spanned more than six decades, until her retirement three years ago, died on April 15 at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Mrs. Lee, an imposing woman who was rarely seen without her pearls, cam
 Lillemor Taylor Robb, chairwoman of the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct from 1975 to 1989, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Albany. She was in her 80's and lived in Slingerlands, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, her family said. Mrs. Robb, a political independent w
 Dr. Anne Anastasi, whose influence is felt by every student who takes a psychology course and by anyone who fills in the answers on a standardized test intended to measure achievement, intelligence, aptitude, personality or creativity, died on May 4 at her home in Manhattan. She was 92.    
 Eleanor Axson Sayre, an authority on the prints of Francisco Goya and one of the first female curators at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, died Saturday. She was 85 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. A granddaughter of Woodrow Wilson, Ms. Sayre was born in Philadelphia in 1916. She earne
 Anita Moore, who sang with Duke Ellington in the early 1970's in his last years and later with Mercer Ellington's band, died on April 28 in Houston. She was 51 and lived in Houston. She died of congestive heart failure, said her sister, Franchon Moore.  She had been in a coma since 
 Carmencita Romero, who performed with Katherine Dunham in her first company, the Negro Dance Group, in the mid-1930's, died on May 6 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 87. Ms. Romero, whose name was originally Lily Butler but changed her name at M
 Ida Fisher Davidoff, a family counselor and expert on aging, died on May 11 at a chronic care center in New Canaan, Conn. She was 97. Dr. Davidoff took pleasure in debunking stereotypes about the elderly and continued to see clients at her home office in New Canaan until a few weeks
 Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early yesterday morning. She was 55. She had apparently jumped to her death, the police said. She had left a 
 Ann Tanneyhill, a counselor who was the National Urban League's director of vocational services from 1947 to 1961, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass. She was 95. For more than 40 years, beginning in 1930, she was on the headquarters staff of the league, a movement d
 Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early Saturday. She was 55. She had apparently jumped to her death, the police said. She had left a suicide n
 Colleagues and friends gathered on Sunday night at the New York State Theater to remember Tanaquil Le Clercq, the elegant ballerina of the New York City Ballet who died on New Year's Eve at the age of 71. In a career that lasted little more than a decade, from 1945 to 1956, when she
 Dr. Dorothy Burr Thompson, a classical archaeologist who was one of the world's leading experts on ancient terra-cotta art, died on May 10 at her home in Hightstown, N.J. She was 101. Dr. Thompson researched and wrote extensively on Hellenistic terra-cotta figurines, small statuette
 Dr. Rosa Susan Penelope Beddington, an experimental biologist whose research produced insights into the way an embryo becomes a fetus in mammals, died on May 18 in Great Tew, Oxfordshire, England. She was 45 and had formerly lived in Edinburgh and London. The cause was cancer, accor
 Evelyn G. Haynes, a preservationist and a former member of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, died last Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 92. A native New Yorker, Evelyn Green Haynes grew up in Brooklyn Heights, attended Smit
 Esther Wanner Hymer, a pioneer of the international women's movement who was long active at the United Nations, died on April 4 at her home in Shrewsbury, N.J. She was 102. In a letter to her on her 100th birthday, Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, said: ''For half a
