 Sharifa Alkhateeb, an advocate for Muslim culture in the United States who helped place courses in Middle Eastern cultures and Arabic in public schools, died on Oct. 21 at her home in Ashburn, Va. She was 58. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daughter Nasreen. Ms. Al
 Iris Chang, a journalist whose best-selling book, ''The Rape of Nanking,'' a chronicle of the atrocities committed in that city by occupying Japanese forces, helped break a six-decade-long international silence on the subject, committed suicide on Tuesday near Los Gatos, Calif. She was 36 a
 Carol Mezzacappa, a dancer and choreographer who staged many works by the modern-dance pioneer Charles Weidman, died on Oct. 12 in a hospice in Brooklyn, where she lived. She was 47. The cause was brain cancer, according to an announcement from the Charles Weidman Foundation.       
 Judy Corman, a publishing executive who helped bring to life the global dynamo named Harry Potter, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 66.The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, the novelist Avery Corman, said. Ms. Corman was senior vice president of corpora
 Dr. M. Irené Ferrer, a New York cardiologist and medical educator who helped refine the cardiac catheter and electrocardiogram, which have become diagnostic essentials in heart treatment, died at her apartment in Manhattan last Friday. She was 89. The cause was pneumonia combined w
 Nancy Larrick, an educator whose poetry anthologies and widely used parent's guide helped introduce generations of children not only to reading, but also to literature, died on Nov. 14 in Winchester, Va. She was 93 and lived in Winchester. The cause was pneumonia, said her stepson, 
 Trina Schart Hyman, who illustrated an entire shelf of children's books and inspired many others who worked in the genre, died on Friday in Lebanon, N.H. She was 65 and lived in Lyme, N.H. The cause was complications of breast cancer, said Jean Aull, her partner. She won the
 Frederica de Laguna, an anthropologist whose work on the history and culture of little-known Arctic civilizations was groundbreaking in the most literal sense of the word, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 98. Her death was announced by Bryn Mawr College, where Dr
