 Daisy Bates, a civil rights leader who in 1957 led the fight to admit nine black students to Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., died yesterday at a hospital there. She was 84. In the integration struggle, rocks were thrown through her window, a burning cross was placed on her
 Mary C. Weitzman, who was a chorus girl as a teenager, a college freshman at 35, later a professor and finally a respected medical researcher, died on Saturday at a Manhattan hospital. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. As a researcher at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in t
 Charlotte Perriand, the French designer who created furniture with Le Corbusier in the 1920's and 30's and was rediscovered as a modernist legend in her own right in the 1980's and 90's, died at her home in Paris on Oct. 27. She was 96. Through a productive career spanning eight dec
 Charlotte Perriand, the French designer who created furniture with Le Corbusier in the 1920's and 30's and was rediscovered as a modernist legend in her own right in the 1980's and 90's, died at her home in Paris on Oct. 27. She was 96. Through a productive career spanning eight dec
 Eve F. Kraft, a tennis teacher, coach, author and the founder and former executive director of the Education and Research Committee of the United States Tennis Association, died Thursday at Princeton Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause of de
 Ranjabati Sircar, a dancer and choreographer who fused India's classical and folk dance traditions with experimental forms from the West, died in Bombay on Oct. 23. She was 36 and lived in Calcutta. The cause was unknown, said Jonathan Hollander, a friend and the artistic director o
 Georgia Hofmann, an owner and breeder of thoroughbred racehorses, including the Triple Tiara winner Sky Beauty, died Sunday at her home in Bal Harbour, Fla. She was 91. The cause was complications from leukemia, which was diagnosed several months ago, said Lawrence G. Foster, a fami
 Mabel King, an actress and singer best known for her portrayal of Evillene, the Wicked Witch of the West, in the Broadway and movie productions of ''The Wiz'' and her role as the mother in the mid-70's television comedy ''What's Happening!'' died on Nov. 9 at a hospital in Woodland Hills, C
 Edmona Lyman Mansell, who founded the Freedom Institute in Manhattan and was one of the first alcoholism counselors in New York to promote intervention as a treatment technique, died Nov. 11 at a hospital in Jupiter, Fla. She was 70. The cause was emphysema, said her daughter Jessic
 Gaby Casadesus, a pianist and teacher whose specialty was the 19th- and 20th-century French piano repertory, and who often performed in a piano duo with her husband, Robert Casadesus, died on Nov. 12 at her home in Paris. She was 98. Mrs. Casadesus, whose name was originally Gaby L'
 Dr. Naomi Bluestone, a medical writer, a practitioner, a teacher and a ''Dear Abby'' to a generation of aspiring doctors, died Nov. 13 at her home in Center Barnstead, N.H. She was 63 and had moved there from Great Neck, N.Y., in 1991. The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, sai
 Eufrosina Raileanu, the principal violist of the New York City Opera Orchestra and a busy freelance player who worked with several chamber groups, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 39 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from breast c
 Gladys Yang, a British translator who spent most of her life in China, translating and promoting Chinese literature for foreign readers, died Thursday in Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported. She was 80. ''After such famous translators from Chinese as Arthur Waley an
 Jeraldyne Blunden, the founder and artistic director of the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, died on Monday at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio. She was 58 and lived in Dayton. The cause was renal failure, said Phyllis Brzozowska, executive director of Dayton Contempo
 Mary Kay Bergman, whose many voices were heard on ''South Park'' and in other animated television shows and films, died on Nov. 11 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 38. The cause of death was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Officer Charlotte Broughton of the Los Angeles Polic
 Sufia Kamal, a Bangladeshi poet, political activist and feminist, died at age 88 on Nov. 20 and was buried four days later with full state honors, the first woman to receive that recognition from Bangladesh. As the national flag was lowered and buglers saluted, about 10,000 people p
 Bethel Leslie, a lifelong presence onstage and on television whose final Broadway performance earned her a Tony nomination, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 70. The cause was cancer, said Leslie McCullough Jeffries, her daughter. The daughter of a lawyer and 
 Regina Shoolman Slatkin, a dealer in old master drawings and a writer and specialist on the 18th-century French painter Francois Boucher, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and had homes in Manhattan, Essex, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. Born in wha
