 Frances Lear, a mercurial figure in the media world who spent some $25 million she received in a divorce settlement to start a magazine named after herself, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. She died of breast cancer, said Dr. Jonathan LaPook, her son-in-law.     
 Laura Epstein, an educator in social work who was retired from the University of Chicago faculty, died on Sept. 18 at her home in Chicago. She was 82. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her brother, Robert. Professor Epstein retired in 1985 after 18 years as an instructor
 Julia Waldbaum, an effervescent personification of motherly concern, homey wisdom and business savvy who helped build a supermarket chain from a butter and egg store in Brooklyn, died in her sleep on Monday as her son held her hand in her apartment in Floral Park, Queens. Mrs. Waldb
 Hermine Baron, one of America's top-ranked female bridge players, died in Los Angeles on Sept. 27. She was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said her former husband, Arthur Baron of Los Angeles. For the last 22 years, Mrs. Baron had more master points than a
 Marjorie Shostak, a woman from a traditional family in Flatbush whose book about a bold older woman from the !Kung San tribe in Africa's Kalahari Desert rode an early wave of women's studies and injected new life into techniques of anthropology, died on Sunday at DeKalb Medical Center in At
 Mignon G. Eberhart, a highly prolific author of mystery novels who specialized in stories that combined romance and suspense, died yesterday in the Nathaniel Witherell nursing home in Greenwich, Conn., where she lived. She was 97. In a 60-year career, Mrs. Eberhardt was one of the m
 Diane Dickerson Montgomery, a former psychiatric social worker and bank officer who was involved in civil rights causes since childhood, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 62 and also had homes in Lubec, Me., and Key West, Fla. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband
 Jessie Bernard, a sociologist whose wide-ranging research and writings on women's issues provided scholarly foundation for the modern feminist revolution, died on Oct. 6 at a nursing home in Washington. She was 93. By rights, Dr. Bernard should have been content to observe the reawa
 Former Representative Coya Knutson of Minnesota, a fierce champion of family farms, medical research and campaign finance reform and the creator of Federal student loans, died at a nursing home in Edina, Minn., on Thursday, her legislative achievements all but overshadowed by her vindictive
 Dr. Roma Gans, an emeritus professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University who wrote several classic texts on teaching children to read, died on Oct. 4 at the Springside Nursing Home in Pittsfield, Mass. She was 102. In books and lectures, Dr. Gans urged teachers t
 Cynthia Novack, an improvisational dancer and a writer and teacher, died on Sept. 27 at home in Manhattan. She was 49. The cause was cancer, said Richard Bull, her husband. Ms. Novack performed with the Richard Bull Dance Theater and the Improvisational Arts Ensemble, compan
 Janice A. Burns, a writer and speaker on AIDS who sought to awaken and educate a wider audience, especially young people, to its realities, died of the disease on Sept. 28 at St. John's Hospital in Yonkers. Mrs. Burns was 33 and a Yonkers resident, said Melinda Mullin, her associate
 Beryl Reid, the versatile British character actress who won a Tony Award in 1967 for her performance in ''The Killing of Sister George'' and was one of the most popular stars on the London stage and on British television, died on Sunday. She was 76. She had developed pneumonia after
 Eleanor Frances Cameron, an award-winning writer of children's books, died on Friday at Hospice House in Monterey, Calif. She was 84 and lived in Pebble Beach, Calif. Mrs. Cameron was the author of 17 children's books. She began her writing career in 1950 with ''The Unheard Music,''
 Millicent Ellis Selsam, an author who filled bookshelf upon bookshelf with primers seeking to still the nagging why's with which children tax their parents' patience and knowledge, died on Saturday at Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Fire Island, L
 Mimi Coleman Thompson, an officer and past board chairwoman of Planned Parenthood of New York City, who also had long associations with Hofstra University and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died on Wednesday at her home in Old Brookville, L.I. She was 69. The cause was ca
 Laura La Plante, an early screen star who made the transition from silent screams to audible sobs and songs, died on Monday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 92. In a career in which she appeared in some 75 films, many in the silent era, Miss
 Hannah Green, an acclaimed author who wrote one slender novel of such delicately distilled perfection that she could hardly bring herself to compose another, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan, six months after the reissue of her classic work, ''The Dead of the House,'' had
 Magda Trocme, a French parson's wife who opened her door to a single shivering refugee in 1940 and helped inspire a movement that saved thousands of Jews and others from the Nazis in World War II, died on Oct. 10 a hospital in Paris. She was 94 and lived in Paris. Although she was a
 Edith Tilton Penrose, an American-born British economist who was an authority on corporate growth and on oil, died on Oct. 11 in Waterbeach -- near Cambridge, England -- where she lived. She was 81. Her death was reported on Saturday by The Guardian and The Independent. Dr. 
 Dr. Mary Heiss Boynton, who directed blood donor programs for the American Red Cross during wartime and later at Lenox Hill Hospital, died on Oct. 8 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 85. Dr. Boynton served as chief medical director of the American Red Cross bl
 Ruth Lewis Farkas, who was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1973 after she and her husband, the founder of the Alexander's department stores, contributed $300,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign, died on Friday at the Park Avenue home of her son Robin. She was 89. 
 Fritz and Ingeborg Kahlenberg, exiled Germans who met during World War II as members of Hidden Camera, a Dutch Resistance group that documented the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, died this month at New York University Hospital within two weeks of each other. The Kahlenbergs, wh
 Arlene Wanderman, an editor and public relations executive who was the American spokeswoman for the International Olive Oil Council, died on Monday at Beth Israel North Hospital. She was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause has not been determined, said Linda Russo, an associate.   
 Constance Woodruff, who was active in labor and women's issues and was a Democratic Party stalwart, died on Saturday at St. Michael's Medical Center in Newark. She was 74 and lived in West Orange, N.J. The cause was cancer, said Jan M. Johnson, executive editor of City News in Plain
 Charlotte H. Dinger, a New Jersey housewife who a paid a chance visit to a Philadelphia antiques shop in 1972 and walked out with the foundation of an unlikely collection and an even less likely career, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Morristown, N.J. She was 66, and known a
 Grace E. Bessay, who won a prolonged legal struggle to keep the Federal Government from ousting her from a two-room summer shanty on Cape Cod, died on Oct. 10 in Cambridge, Mass. where she had her main home for 50 years. She was 84. Her death was reported yesterday by The Associated
 Diana Trilling, an uncompromising cultural and social critic and a member of the circle of writers, thinkers and polemicists of the 1930's, 40's and 50's known as the New York intellectuals, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She was 91 and lived in Manhattan. At o
 Genia Robinor, a pianist and teacher, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Robinor was a well-known piano teacher whose pupils included Andre Watts. She taught at the Philadelphia Musical Academy, the Settlement Music School in P
 Marion Durham Cuyjet, a pioneering teacher of black dancers, died on Oct. 22 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. Mrs. Cuyjet was 76 and lived in Philadelphia. She had been suffering from cardiopulmonary disorders, according to her son, Stephen Cuyjet Jr.     
 Barbara C. Salken, a professor at the Pace University School of Law in White Plains, died on Oct. 17 at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla. She was 49 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y. She suffered a long illness, according to the law school, where she had taught criminal law and pro
 Ruth Waxman, who played a prominent role in Conservative Judaism, died on Oct. 18 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 80. She had suffered injuries in a fall at her home in Great Neck, L.I., earlier that week, her family said. Mrs. Waxman was the wi
 Miriam Kressyn, a star of the Yiddish stage and, along with her husband, Seymour Rechtzeit, a primary force in the survival of Yiddish theater in the United States, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. As actress, singer, adapter 
 Angela Romano Perez, an advocate for the disabled whose life was a model of the personal independence, responsibility and achievement she championed, died on Friday at the Cabrini Hospice in the Gramercy Park area of Manhattan. Ms. Perez, a lifelong resident of the Upper East Side, was 49. 
