 Sylvia Sidney, whose vulnerable but spunky persona helped make her the ultimate heroine of realistic movies of the 1930's, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Miss Sidney determined to be an actress at the age of 15 and perfected he
 Constance Shacklock, an English mezzo-soprano who made more than 500 appearances at the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden between 1946 and 1956, and then undertook a second stage career in musical theater, died on Tuesday. She was 86. Ms. Shacklock was born in Sherwood Forest, near
 Sola Sierra, who campaigned to bring to justice those responsible for the death of her husband and hundreds of other Chilean dissidents during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, died on July 1 at a hospital in Santiago, Chile, where she lived. She was 63. She died of a heart
 Jean Gardiner Chisholm Lindsey, a business and civic leader who in the 1980's served as an officer, trustee or member of 18 organizations and foundations at the same time, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan on June 29, according to her son John. She wa
 Helen Forrest, the big-band singer whose dreamy hits with the Harry James orchestra distilled the nostalgic spirit of World War II pop, died on Sunday at the Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, The Associated P
 Brenda Hughes Moore, a human-rights advocate and arts consultant and the wife of the Right Rev. Paul Moore Jr., retired bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York, died Sunday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 56 and lived in Greenwich Village and Stonington, Conn. The cau
 Sherley Anne Williams, a daughter of migrant workers who became an award-winning novelist, poet and playwright as well as a professor at the University of California, died on July 6 at a hospital in San Diego. She was 54 and lived in San Diego. The cause was cancer, Kate Callen, a u
 Joan Wight, the widow of the Yorkshire veterinarian who wrote under the name James Herriot and the model for a character in his books and television programs based on them, died on Wednesday. She was in her 80's. Ms. Wight's health slowly declined after her husband died in 1995 at a
 Rummana Hussain, a painter and conceptual artist who was also active in Indian politics, died on July 5 at her home in Bombay. She was 47. The cause was cancer, said the photographer Ram Rahman, a friend. Ms. Hussain, who came from a prominent Muslim family in Bombay, was fo
 Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, whose marriage to John F. Kennedy Jr. catapulted her and her understated glamour to fame, was reported lost and presumed dead on a flight Friday to Martha's Vineyard, Mass., along with her husband and her sister Lauren Bessette. She was 33. Until sh
 Patricia Zipprodt, the Tony Award-winning costume designer whose career extended from theater to dance to opera to film and television, died on Saturday at her home in  Greenwich Village. Ms. Zipprodt was 74. The cause was cancer, according to her sister, Constance Zonka of Chicago.
 Anne Woolliams, a British ballet teacher who played a major role in the international success of the Stuttgart Ballet and who became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and the Vienna State Opera Ballet, died in Canterbury, England, on July 8. She was 72 and lived in Canterbury.     
 Gina Berriault, an award-winning writer of short stories and novels, died on July 15 at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Sausalito, Calif. She died after a brief illness, her family said. With her terse prose, emotional precision and deft s
 Trudi Schoop, a popular Swiss-born comic dancer who became a pioneer in the use of dance movement to treat mental illness, died on July 14 at her home in Van Nuys, Calif. She was 95. Throughout the 1930's Miss Schoop was often called a female Charlie Chaplin because of the way she, 
 Barbara Raskin, author of the best-selling 1987 novel ''Hot Flashes,'' about the concerns of her generation of women, died on Friday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. She was 63 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications after vascular surgery, said her former husban
 Donna Allen, an early standard-bearer of feminism who kept an eye on the news and communications industry from her Washington home, died on July 19 of a heart attack. She was 78. Her family said she died at a hospital but declined to identify it. Dr. Allen came to social and
 Marguerite W. Cullman, a longtime theatrical investor who was also an author, died yesterday in her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 94, and her main residence was in Purchase, N.Y. After working as an editor of the old Stage magazine, Mrs. Cullman began invest
 Mala Rubinstein, a beauty expert and longtime executive at Helena Rubinstein Inc., as well as an art collector and patron, died on Thursday at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 93 years old. Ms. Rubinstein, a niece of the company's founder, Helena Rubinstein, lived in Manhattan and W
 Anne Richardson, former chairwoman of Reading Is Fundamental, the nation's largest organization promoting children's literacy, died on Monday at a hospital in Cheverly, Md. She was 69 and lived in Mitchellville, Md., a Washington suburb, with her husband, former Attorney General Elliot L. R
 Constance Friess Holman, the first woman to become chief resident in medicine at New York Hospital, died last Friday at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital in Brattleboro, Vt. She was 91. The cause was pneumonia, her daughter, Jane Clough, said. Despite being first in her class at
