 Hildegarde, whose career as an international cabaret chanteuse spanned almost seven decades and who was credited with starting the single-name vogue among entertainers, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. She was 99. Her death was confirmed Saturday by her
 Dame Cicely Saunders, a founder of the modern hospice movement, died July 14 in the prototype she had built in Britain 38 years ago, St. Christopher's in Sydenham, south London. She was 87. Her death was reported on the hospice's Web site. European hospices go back to the Mi
 Sue Gunter, a pioneering women's college basketball coach who turned Louisiana State University into a national power in a career spanning four decades, died yesterday at her home in Baton Rouge, La. Gunter, a member of two basketball halls of fame, was 66. The cause was res
 Barbara Bel Geddes, a critically acclaimed stage, screen and television actress known for her work with Alfred Hitchcock in the 1950's and, more recently, for her role as Miss Ellie, the matriarch of the fractious Ewing clan on the long-running nighttime soap opera ''Dallas,'' died on Monda
 Judith Rossner, a novelist who used crisp, piercing prose to tell of women pushed to often grotesque extremes, most famously in her 1975 book ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 70. The cause was not immediately de
 Helen L. Phillips, a lyric-dramatic soprano who preceded Marian Anderson in breaking color barriers at the Metropolitan Opera and elsewhere in the 1940's and 50's, died on July 27 in the Washington Heights neighborhood of Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was heart failure, her nurse
 Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1
 Joyce Wein, a former vice president of the company that produced the Newport Jazz and Folk Festivals and numerous other events, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital on the Upper East Side. She was 76 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was cancer, said a spokeswom
 Mo Mowlam, the earthy, straight-talking politician who as Britain's Northern Ireland secretary helped negotiate the Good Friday peace settlement in 1998, died Friday morning at a hospice in Canterbury, her family said. She was 55. Unsteady on her feet at times as a result of radioth
 Jane Lawrence Smith, an actress and singer and the widow of the architect and sculptor Tony Smith, died on Aug. 5 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 90. Her death was announced by her family. Ms. Smith was one of the last survivors of the central circle of Abstract Ex
 Elizabeth C. Beine, a retired director of New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare, who for more than a decade oversaw one of the largest child welfare programs in the world, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96. Susan Vail, a longtime friend, confirmed the death.    
