 Barbara Skelton, a writer whose best subject was her own life of passionate abandon, died on Saturday in Worcestershire in western England from a brain tumor, The Times of London reported on Monday. She was 79. Her two volumes of memoirs -- "Tears Before Bedtime" (1987) and "Weep No
 Rebecca LaBrecque, a pianist who championed new music and new ways of using the keyboard in a classical concert setting, died on Sunday at Calpary Hospital  in the Bronx. She was 45 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a series of brain tumors, Ms. LaBrecque's sister, Sandra T. Par
 Rita Lynn, an actress in radio and television who also helped develop the use of theatrical performances as therapy for psychiatric patients, died on Jan. 21  at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 74. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Frank Maxwell. Ms. Lynn was 
 Katrina de Hirsch, a speech therapist who was a pioneer in the field of childhood language and learning disorders, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. Ms. de Hirsch, who was better known by her professional name than her legal name, Katherine Romney, was among the 
 Sadie Klingenstein Klau, who was an active member on the boards of Montefiore Medical Center and Hunter College, her alma mater, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. She was 97 and lived on the Upper East Side of  Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, said her
 Audrey Meadows, whose portrayal of a working-class housewife on "The Honeymooners" placed her in the pantheon of television comedy's grandes dames, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, the actress Jay
 Sadie Klingenstein Klau, who was an active member on the boards of Montefiore Medical Center and Hunter College, her alma mater, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. She was 97 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, said he
 Adele Bishop, who was instrumental in reviving the popularity of decorative stencils in the United States, died on Jan. 30 at Lenoir Memorial Hospital in Kinston, N.C. She was 68 and lived in Greenville, N.C. The cause of death was complications from a bone marrow transplant while s
 Sharman Douglas, a socialite whose life was defined by her friendship as a youth with Princess Margaret and her ensuing lifelong friendship with Britain's  royal family, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. John S. Zinsser Jr., a cousin, said she
 Isabel Kambert, an opera singer who escaped Nazi Germany with liverwurst sandwiches stuffed with folded 10,000-mark notes, and who later in New York became known as Mme. Isabel after creating the fashion for decorated cashmere sweaters, died on Wednesday at the home of a niece, Eva Ballanti
 Lidiya Chukovskaya, the Russian writer who risked her life to record the horrors of Stalinism and speak out against the persecutions of dissidents in the Soviet Union, died on Wednesday at her home in Moscow. She was 88. As a champion of human rights, Miss Chukovskaya criticized the
 Felice N. Schwartz, who was active for more than three decades in the advancement of women in the workplace, and whose writing focused debate over the career model known as the "mommy track," died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71. She died of heart failure after a lo
 Dorothea J. Steindl, who espoused Jewish causes for more than four decades, died on Monday at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y., of cancer. She was 71. Mrs. Steindl was born Dorothea J. Kahn in Far Rockaway, Queens. In 1953, she  joined the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training
 Ruth Freeman Meyer, a philanthropist who attended Syracuse University's School of Management and remained a booster her whole life, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, she was 93. Mrs. Meyer, who was born in Syracuse, upheld the notion that education 
 Judith Kaplan Eisenstein, an author, musicologist and composer, died yesterday of a heart attack in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., where she was being treated for a broken hip. She was 86 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. The oldest daughter of Rabbi Mordecai Kaplan, the founder 
 Lady Caroline Blackwood, a writer of wry, macabre novels and essays, and a beguiling Anglo-Irish aristocrat who married the painter Lucian Freud and the poet Robert Lowell, died yesterday in the Mayfair Hotel in Manhattan, where she  stayed the last few weeks while she was ill. She was 64. 
 Eva Hart was 7 years old and bound for a new life in Canada when her father woke her in the middle of the night, carried her outside in a blanket and told her, "Hold Mummy's hand and be a good girl." It was the last thing he ever said to her, and she never saw him again. Later that 
 Maria A. Rudzinska, a protozoologist who used electron microscopy to uncover  the eating habits of the parasite that causes malaria, died last Friday at her home in Manhattan. Dr. Rudzinska, who was an emeritus professor of parasitology  at Rockefeller University, was 92. She came t
 Deborah Henry, a Broadway dancer who appeared in "A Chorus Line" and in a number of touring musicals, died on Feb. 5 at her family's home in Memphis. She  was 44 and lived in Union City, N.J. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Donna Drake, a friend. Ms. Henry danced with the
 Elizabeth McCall Cain, a figure in Manhattan's social world who was active in arranging benefits for educational and cultural institutions, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, her brother, Julien L. McC
 Kathryn Marie Hemphill, a top golfer in the 1930's and 40's, died on Wednesday. She was 84. Hemphill, who was born in Hattiesburg, Miss., and grew up in Columbia, reached the semifinals of the national amateur championship in 1936 and '37. The next year, she was selected for the Uni
 Ann Barry, who pursued a freelance writing career while working as an editor  at The New York Times and at The New Yorker, died of cancer on Saturday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 53 and lived in Brooklyn. Miss Barry, who was born in St. Louis and graduated from St. Lou
 Eleanor Clark, an author best known for the evocative range of her accounts of oystering in Brittany and of the streets of Rome, died on Friday at a retirement home in Boston. She was 82. Miss Clark, the widow of Robert Penn Warren, was a master stylist whose works won critical accl
 Evelyn Laye, a British musical comedy star whose 80-year career included appearances on Broadway, died on Saturday at a nursing home in London. She was 95. Miss Laye made her stage debut at the age of 15 and enjoyed her first big success in "The Merry Widow" in 1923. She became an i
 Rhoda Haas Goldman, a San Francisco civic leader and benefactor of a wide variety of causes, died on Saturday while vacationing in Honolulu. She was 71. She suffered a heart attack, said Duane Silverstein, executive director of the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Fund in San Francisco.   
 Dr. Francesca Morosani Thompson, a prominent orthopedic surgeon at Roosevelt  Hospital who chronicled her struggle against cancer of the bone marrow in a book, "Going for the Cure," died on Thursday at New York Hospital. A resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, she was 51. Sh
 Jill Rose, the president of the International Center of Photography, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 52 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Marshall Rose, the chairman emeritus of the New York Public Library. Mrs.
 Dorothy Maynor, a highly regarded soprano recitalist who founded the Harlem School of the Arts, died on Monday at the Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. She was 85 and lived in Kennett Square, Pa. Miss Maynor, whose career helped open the way for black artists like Marian 
 Louise Rorimer-Dushkin, a prominent supporter of Manhattan's settlement houses, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 85 and had moved to Santa Fe from the Upper East Side three years ago. Mrs. Rorimer-Dushkin was a founder, in 1964, and past chairwom
 Barbara Howes, a poet who was one of five finalists for the National Book Award in poetry last year for her book "Collected Poems 1945-1990," died in her  sleep early yesterday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington,  Vt. She was 81 and lived on a farm in Pownal, Vt.      
 Anna Mikhailovna Larina, the widow of Nikolai I. Bukharin, a father of the Bolshevik Revolution who was executed under Stalin, and herself a survivor of the Soviet gulag, died of lung cancer here on Saturday, her daughter, Nadezhda Fadeyeva, said. She was 82. When Bukharin, a truste
 Esther S. Manz, who was a 208-pound housewife pregnant with her fifth child when a kitchen-table gathering in 1948 inspired her to found TOPS, a weight-loss support group that grew into a 300,000-member nonprofit organization, died on Monday at the Heritage Nursing Home in Milwaukee. Mrs. M
 One of the most elegant tennis players ever to grace a grass court, Sarah Palfrey Danzig, a mainstay on the international circuit in the 1930's and an esteemed ambassador of the game thereafter, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 83. The cause was lung cancer, her husband,
