 Gertrude Ederle, who was called ''America's best girl'' by President Calvin Coolidge in 1926 after she became the first woman to swim across the English Channel, died yesterday at a nursing home in Wyckoff, N.J. She was 98. Ederle was a symbol of the Roaring 20's, a decade given as 
 Sylvia Sebastiani, who married the boy next door and became the matriarch and later the chairwoman of one of America's most prominent wine families, died on Sunday in Sonoma. She was 87. Mrs. Sebastiani, who was also the author of a cookbook of family recipes, had given up day-to-da
 Katharine Sergava, the dancer and actress who portrayed the dream-ballet version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 11 in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had settled in the mid-1960's. Various sources give the year of her birth as 1909 
 Mary Pinkett, a labor advocate from Brooklyn who became the first African-American woman elected to the New York City Council, died yesterday. She was 72. The cause was heart failure brought on by cancer, said her nephew, Derek Glover. As a young woman in Brooklyn, Mrs. Pink
 Priscilla Comins Kidder, who rose to prominence as Priscilla of Boston, outfitting young brides as their numbers soared after World War II in embellished dresses that became synonymous with American matrimonial style, died on Sunday at her home in Winchester, Mass. She was 86. Antic
 Dr. Margaret Singer, a leading expert on brainwashing who testified in several high-profile cases contending that various groups inappropriately manipulated their members to control their behavior, died on Nov. 23 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 82. The cause was respiratory failure, sa
 Mary Jane Russell, a leading fashion model of the 1940's and '50's who was a favorite of the photographers Louise Dahl-Wolfe and Irving Penn, died on Nov. 20 in Charleston, S.C. She was 77. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said her husband, Edward T. Russell. Mrs. Russell b
 Ethel Winant, who became one of the first female executives in network television when she was awarded a vice president's title at CBS in 1973, died on Nov. 29 at a hospital in Canoga Park, Calif. She was 81. The cause was complications of a heart attack and a stroke, said Pam Dixon
 Friede F. Roth, a personal representative for classical musicians, most notably the pianist Claudio Arrau, died on Friday in Manhattan, said Josephine Hemsing, a friend of Ms. Roth. She was 89 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Roth was born near Kiev, Ukraine, in 1914 and moved to New Yor
 Dr. Elizabeth Bates, a leading expert on the way infants develop language and an outspoken critic of the theory that humans are endowed at birth with a language module, died on Sunday at her home in San Diego. She was 56. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Dr. Jeffrey Elman, a cl
 Jenifer Estess, a theatrical producer who set up a foundation for research into Lou Gehrig's disease after she learned she had it, died yesterday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 40. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., as Lou Gehrig's disease is formally kn
 Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the National Brain Tumor Foundation, died on Nov. 30 in San Francisco, where she made her home. She was 57. The cause was complications of pneumonia and of a brain tumor first diagnosed in 1979, her family said. The founda
 Regina Ovesey, the first woman to be chief executive of an advertising agency recognized by the industry's main trade group, the American Association of Advertising Agencies, died on Dec. 13 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 82. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Can
 Dr. Gisela Konopka, a pioneer in the study of troubled adolescents who provided groundbreaking insights on disruptive behavior among girls, died on Dec. 9 in Minneapolis. She was 93. The cause was pulmonary edema, said Dr. Robert Blum, a friend and colleague, who is a professor of p
 Gladys Shelley, a prolific songwriter whose ballad ''How Did He Look?'' became a cabaret standard and whose jingle for Palisades Amusement Park once saturated the airwaves in the New York area, died on Dec. 9 at home in Manhattan. She was 92. Her death was reported by the American S
 Hope Lange, a film, television and stage actress noted for a natural comedic style and intelligent portrayals of women in difficult circumstances, work that brought her two Emmy Awards and an Academy Award nomination, died at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday. She was 70 and liv
 Blanche Davis Blank, a social scientist and author who led Hunter College as interim president in the early 1990's, died on Friday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y., her family said. She was 80. Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva Universit
 Helen Gustafson, a tea buyer and author who championed fine tea, pushed it onto the menu at Chez Panisse and other restaurants and taught the art of the afternoon tea, died on Dec. 14 at her home here. She was 74. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Clair Gustafson. She 
 Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said. She was 90. She was perhaps best kn
 Ann Sunstein Kheel, a civic leader and environmentalist whose posts included chairwoman of the State Parks Commission for the City of New York, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan, her family said. She was 88 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Her husband is 
 Vestal Goodman, a matriarch of gospel music whose influence ranged far beyond its traditional audience, died on Saturday in Celebration, Fla. She was 74. The Associated Press reported her death based on information from funeral home officials and her own Web site. The cause was not 
