 Burch Mann, the founder and director of the American Folk Ballet, died on Tuesday at her home in Cedar City, Utah, after a long illness. She was 87. Ms. Mann, who was born and raised in the Midwest, moved to New York City in 1928 to study ballet. She choreographed for nightclubs in 
 Emma Bowen, a lifelong advocate for community causes and the rights of minorities whose reach extended to Washington, where she challenged broadcasters' and politicians' hiring practices, died last Monday at her home in Washington Heights. She was 81. Mrs. Bowen was an outspoken adv
 Sarah Powell Huntington, who spent her life in social service, dealing with mental health issues and, particularly, the fate of women released from prison,  died on June 23 at her home in St. James, L.I. She was 89. Upholding the Quaker tradition of her family, she was a mainstay of
 Geraldine Bone Zorbaugh, a lawyer who was a trailblazer for women in the upper ranks of broadcast networks' legal staffs in the 1950's, died on Saturday  at Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. She was 91 and lived in a retirement home in Pinehurst. Mrs. Zorbaugh worked as a s
 The badly decomposed body of the actress and model Margaux Hemingway, who was once described as the face of a generation, was discovered by friends yesterday  in her home in Santa Monica, Calif., the police said. Santa Monica police investigators arrived at Ms. Hemingway's studio ap
 Pamela Mason, an author, actress, talk-show host and former wife of the actor James Mason, died on Saturday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80. Pamela Helen Mason was born in Southend-on-Sea, England, the daughter of Isadore and Helen Ostrer. Her father was a mill owner
 The badly decomposed body of the actress and model Margaux Hemingway, who was once described as the face of a generation, was discovered by friends on Monday  in her home in Santa Monica, Calif., the police said. She was 41. Santa Monica police investigators arrived at Ms. Hemingway
 Erna Lane, a dancer who as a child was one of the first students of Elizabeth Duncan, Isadora Duncan's sister, died on June 28 at Hillcrest Hospital in Pittsfield, Mass. She was 92 and lived in West Stockbridge, Mass. Miss Lane, who was born in Munich, Germany, began her dance train
 Judge Genevieve Blatt, the first woman to be elected to statewide office in Pennsylvania and to serve on the state's appellate court, died on Thursday at a  retirement home in Hampden Township, Pa. She was 83 and a former resident of Harrisburg. She spent more than 50 years in publi
 Ruth Adams Paepcke, former editor in chief of America Illustrated, the Russian-language magazine about American life that the United States Information Agency sent to the Soviet Union during the cold war, died on Tuesday at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. She was 79 and lived in W
 Sophia Delza Glassgold, a modern dancer and teacher and an expert in the ancient Chinese exercise form called tai chi, died on June 27 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan. A graduate of Hunter College, she trained as a modern dancer 
 Kathy Ahern, a former child prodigy of a golfer who turned professional while still a teen-ager, died on Saturday at her home in Phoenix. She was 47. The cause was complications from breast cancer, family members said. Ms. Ahern won three tournaments during her career on the
 Leslie D'Cora Holmes, an advocate of tenants' rights who was a member of the  New York City Rent Guidelines Board, died on Friday at a hospital in Albany. She was 39 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said the Legal Aid Society, where she was the supervising atto
 Justice Birdie Amsterdam, who achieved several judicial firsts, including being the first woman elected to the New York State Supreme Court, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 95 and lived on the Lower East Side, just steps from where she was born. Ju
 Bea Dolen, the unflappable ringmaster who oversaw the often chaotic election  process in New York City for 14 years beginning in 1974, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 83 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was a massive stroke, her family said.      
 Bertha Schizer, who started working as a pharmacist in Brooklyn when that profession was dominated by men, died on July 3 at University Hospital in Brooklyn. A longtime Brooklyn resident, she was 102. Mrs. Schizer was born in Bialystok, in what is now Poland, and she came to the Uni
 Delia Goetz, whose travels as an education specialist for the United States Government provided her with material for more than a score of children's books, died on June 26 at her home in Washington. She was 100. Mrs. Goetz, who was born in Wesley, Iowa, attended Iowa State Teachers
 Gioia Marconi Braga, the founder and chairwoman of the privately supported Marconi International Fellowship Council, who promoted scientific and cultural relations between Italy and the United States, died on Monday at Englewood Hospital. She was 80 and lived in Alpine, N.J. Mrs. Br
 Frances J. Tyler, longtime owner and operator of the Tyler Place, a family resort in Highgate Springs, Vt., died last Friday at the Northwest Medical Center in the nearby town of St. Albans. She was 92 and lived on the grounds she managed. Mrs. Tyler and her husband, Edward J. Tyler
 Natalie Lieberman, the founder and president of Learning Through Art/The Guggenheim Museum Children's Program and a member of the museum's board, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 86 and lived on the Upper East  Side of Manhattan. Mrs. Lieberman was born in Br
 Peg Weiss, an art historian, research professor and leading scholar on the Russian modernist Wassily Kandinsky, died on Wednesday at her home in Syracuse.  She was 63. The cause was cancer, her husband, Volker Weiss, said. In 1982, Mrs. Weiss was the curator of "Kandinsky in
 Faithful followers of soap operas have learned over the years that after a brief and bitter first marriage a young single mother can find love, marriage and singular professional success with a much older man, but now the question is: Can a career woman who sacrificed her leisure to
 Harriett Heywood Patton, a founder of Recording for the Blind and a managing  director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild, died on Wednesday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. She was 85 and lived in Bronxville. She suffered a brief illness, her husband, Arch Patton, said. Mrs
 Katharine Huyck Elmore, the chairwoman of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve and Biological Research Station in Rensselaerville, N.Y., died Monday at the Meadow  Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. She was 92 and formerly lived in  Rensselaerville. She was also a co-founder 
 Gertrude Crain, who was chairwoman of the Crain Communications publishing company for more than 20 years, died July 20 at her son's summer home on Cape Cod. She was 85 years old and lived in Chicago. In all, Mrs. Crain spent 40 years with the Chicago-based company that her husband, 
 Theo Cobb Landon, the widow of Gov. Alfred M. Landon of Kansas and the mother of Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, died on Sunday at her home in Topeka. She was 97. Mr. Landon, the Republican candidate for President in 1936, died in 1987 at the age of 100 after 5
 Jessica Mitford, whose book "The American Way of Death" won her enormous popularity as an irreverent muckraker and witty polemicist, died yesterday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 78. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Constancia Romilly. Over the more than thre
 Jean Muir, whose dismissal from the television series "The Aldrich Family" in 1950 brought widespread attention to the television industry's practice of blacklisting suspected Communists, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mesa, Ariz. She was 85. On Aug. 27, 1950, Ms. Muir was pre
 Josephine Rucker Powell, the wife of former Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell, died on Wednesday at her home in Richmond. She was 85. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, the family said. Mrs. Powell was a member of the board of the Association for the Preservation of Vi
 Virginia Christine, a character actress who portrayed the motherly Mrs. Olson in Folger's coffee television commercials for 21 years, died on Wednesday at her home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. She was 76. The cause was heart complications, her family said. Ms. Ch
 Claudia Cassidy, whose arts criticism for The Chicago Tribune made her a dominant figure in the city's cultural scene for decades, died on Sunday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. She was 96 and lived in Chicago. Ms. Cassidy was born in Shawneetown, Ill., on the Ohio Riv
 Aliki Vouyouklaki, a film actress who was the darling of towns and villages throughout Greece and who never seemed to age over a career that spanned more than four decades, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Athens Medical Center. She was 63. Among the most popular of her 41 movies we
 Bessy Pupko, who spent 50 years locating witnesses to Nazi war crimes, died on July 26 at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 99. She worked for the World Jewish Congress until a few years ago, searching for people willing to testify at trials in West Germany and the United Sta
 Anne W. Simon, an environmentalist whose books explored the perils to the world's seas and shorelines, particularly on her beloved Martha's Vineyard, died on Monday at her Manhattan home. She was 82 and also had a home in Chilmark, Mass. At her death she was working on a book on the
 Claudette Colbert, the versatile stage and film star whose flair for light comedy cheered audiences during the Depression and for decades afterward, died yesterday at Belle-rive, her home on the island of Barbados. She was 92 and also had a home in Manhattan. Miss Colbert's wit, gai
