 Mary Ann Unger, a sculptor and curator, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 53. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Born in New York in 1945, Ms. Unger began making sculpture as a child in art classes at the Museum of Modern Art. In 1967, she received 
 Jane Clapperton Cushman, a writer and literary agent, died on Dec. 30 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was cancer, said her son, Thomas Cushman of Manhattan. Her company, the JCA Literary Agency, was founded by 
 Clare Potter, a leading American fashion designer of the 1930's and 40's known for imaginative use of color and simplicity of line, died Jan. 5 at her home in Fort Ann, N.Y. She was 95. Along with Claire McCardell and Tina Leser, Ms. Potter was one of the designers credited with inv
 Virginia Eloise Peterson Abelson, a former bookstore owner and past Democratic Party district leader who also worked in publishing and created crossword puzzles, died on Sunday at her home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 72. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Abel
 Naomi Mitchison, author of more than 70 books, bohemian free thinker and feminist long before the term was coined, died on Monday at her home on the Mull of Kintyre in Scotland. She was 101. The subjects and genres of her novels, biographies, poems, memoirs, short stories, political
 Dr. Katherine Bain, a pediatrician who became a high-ranking and an outspoken Washington official concerned with the well-being of infants and children, died on Jan. 10 in a Washington nursing home she entered in October. She was 101 and had lived in Washington since 1940. Dr. Bain'
 Frances Godowsky, a prolific painter and sometime singer better known as George and Ira's little sister, Frankie Gershwin, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 and the last of the Gershwin siblings. In a family where talent abounded, Mrs. Godowsky and her slightly old
 Dr. Judith Silberpfennig Kestenberg, a psychoanalyst specializing in child development and the emotional state of Holocaust survivors and their children, died Saturday at her home in Sands Point, N.Y. She was 88. Dr. Kestenberg headed Child Development Research, which she founded 30
 Lucille Kallen, the lone woman in the raucous, celebrated and astonishingly untidy group of television writers behind Sid Caesar's ''Your Show of Shows,'' died on Monday at her home in Ardsley, N.Y. She was 76. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Lise Engel. ''Your Show
 Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Saturday at her home in Miami Beach. She was 92 and also had a home in Manhattan. Dr. Freund-Rosenthal persuaded the artist Marc Chagall to create the stained g
 Susan Strasberg, who at 17 electrified Broadway with her luminous portrayal of the title role of ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' and -- with highs and lows professional and private -- went on to a career onstage and in movies, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 60 and also had a
 Betty Bryant, who had such a satisfying childhood career in the backwaters of show business that she never bothered to try to top herself in the Broadway mainstream, died on Jan. 15 at her home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 76 and was recalled as the third generation of a family of sh
 Virginia Verrill, the on-screen singing voice of some of Hollywood's most famous leading ladies and later a popular radio star, died on Jan. 18 at the Mayview Nursing Home in Raleigh, N.C. She was 82 and lived in Raleigh. Ms. Verrill, born in Santa Monica, Calif., was a child of Hol
 Sarah (Sadie) Delany, the last of the storied Delany sisters, died peacefully in her sleep at age 109 yesterday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y., spokesmen for her family said. She was the oldest survivor of one of America's most remarkable families, the daughter of a man who had b
 Rita Valentine Tishman, a New York benefactor of Jewish and civic causes, died on Jan. 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 91. She was decorated by President Franklin D. Roosevelt for leading the New York State women's division of the War Bond drive in the 19
 Ruth Rawlings Mott, who oversaw an array of charitable organizations, died on Monday at her home in Flint, Mich. She was 97. Mrs. Mott was the widow and a distant cousin of Charles Stewart Mott, a founder of the General Motors Corporation, financier and philanthropist. With him she 
 Joan Engel Stern, a ballet dancer, died on Jan. 18 at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was cancer, the family said. Born Shirley Engel in Baltimore, she was known as Joan Engel when she became a professional dancer. In 1945, she became a founding member of a tour
 Margaret Wentworth Owings, a California artist and conservationist who fought for the survival of sea otters, sea lions, mountain lions and other wild creatures, died on Jan. 21 at Wild Bird, her clifftop home above the Pacific in Big Sur, Calif. She was 85. The cause was heart fail
