 Joan McCord, a criminologist who marshaled mountains of evidence to question the effectiveness of social programs championed by both liberals and conservatives, died Tuesday at her home in Narberth, Pa. She was 73. The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Robert. In 12 books
 Josephine Schwarz, a pioneer of the American regional ballet movement and a co-founder of the Dayton Ballet, died on Friday in Boulder, Colo., said her niece, Johannah Franke. She was 95. Ms. Schwarz and her sister, Hermene Schwarz, who died in 1986, were natives of Dayton who, thro
 Jane Engelhard, a philanthropist and art collector whose many gifts ranged from major donations to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to the Christmas crèche displayed at the White House, died on Sunday at her home in Nantucket, Mass. She was 86. The cause was pneumonia, her daughter A
 Marge Schott, who evoked the image of a charming eccentric when she bought the Cincinnati Reds in 1984 but became a baseball pariah for offensive racial and ethnic remarks, died yesterday in Cincinnati. She was 75. Her death was announced by Christ Hospital, where she had been treat
 Odessa Edwards, a Southern gospel singer known for her passionate and topical sermonizing with the Original Gospel Harmonettes, died on Feb. 22 in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived. The cause was complications from a stroke, her granddaughter, Tausha Riley, said. Ms. Riley said Ms. 
 Margaret Westheimer Tishman, an organizer of the merged UJA-Federation of New York and its first president, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived on the Upper East Side. Her death was announced by the organization, in which she had been active for many years while it was
 Mary Lindsay, who as John V. Lindsay's accomplished, blue-blood wife brought casual elegance and political acumen to his campaigns for New York City mayor and other offices while fiercely protecting the family's limited privacy, died yesterday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 77. The cau
 Vivian Infantino, a longtime columnist for the trade weekly Footwear News who helped discover many shoe designers, died on Saturday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice in Manhattan. She was 77. The cause was cancer, Footwear News said. Ms. Infantino started writing a column called '
 Elise Asher, a painter and a poet who blended images and poetry in her work, died last Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 92 and also had a studio and summer home in Provincetown, Mass. The cause was complications from a broken hip she suffered three weeks earlier, her
 Geneviève, the French chanteuse best remembered for her unfailing ability to mangle the English language during regular appearances on Jack Paar's ''Tonight Show,'' died Sunday morning at her home in Los Angeles. She was 83 and also had a home in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was co
 Lisa Gubernick, an author and reporter who wrote about the entertainment industry for The Wall Street Journal and as the Hollywood correspondent for Forbes magazine, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was
 Jane Wood, a longtime tenant advocate and political radical in New York who once pressured her landlord to replace a broken elevator by sleeping on an air mattress in the lobby, died on Wednesday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 96. Ms. Wood died from respiratory complications
 Joan Cullman, a Tony Award-winning producer on Broadway, died yesterday at her winter home in Tryall, Jamaica. She was 72 and also had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Tracy Straus. Ms. Cullman was a producer of at le
 Ella Johnson, a jazz singer who performed with her brother Buddy Johnson in his dance bands in the 1940's and 50's, died in New York on Feb. 16, her nephew James Johnson Jr. said. She was 86. A smooth singer with a seductive delivery, Ms. Johnson was often compared to Billie Holiday
 A memorial service for the actress and teacher Uta Hagen will be held on Thursday at 1 p.m. at the Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, Manhattan. She died on Jan. 14 at 84. The service is open to the public and will include readings and reminiscences by friends and colleagues in
 Princess Juliana, the modest and beloved queen of The Netherlands for 32 years, died early Saturday. She was 94. The government announced that she had died of pneumonia at the Soestdijk Palace, her longtime home, surrounded by three of her four daughters, including Queen Beatrix. He
 Genia Melikova, a leading ballerina with the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and a noted ballet teacher in the United States, died on March 5. She was 74. Alice Helpern, a friend and colleague, said that Ms. Melikova collapsed in the lobby of her apartment building in Manhattan an
 Ludmilla Tcherina, a raven-haired French artist and ballet star who danced for many of Europe's top choreographers, died on Sunday at her home in Paris at the age of 79, France's culture ministry said today. The cause of her death was not immediately known. Famous for her be
 Lynn L. Seidler, the former executive director of the Shubert Foundation, which provides grants to support live professional theater and dance, died on Thursday while vacationing in the Turks and Caicos Islands. She was 67 and lived in Sanibel, Fla. The cause was lung cancer, which 
 Mary B. Goodhue, a longtime New York State senator who lost her seat in 1992 in a rare Republican primary to a little-known assemblyman by the name of George E. Pataki, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital, her son, Francis A. Goodhue III, said. She was 82 and lived in Bedford
 Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, a psychotherapist who with her husband, Seymour Fisher, wrote popular books on subjects as varied as humor and child-rearing, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter, Dr. Eve Whitmore, in Medina, Ohio. She was 79 and had a home in Manlius, N.Y., a Syracuse suburb.   
 Dorothy Denny Scardino, a jazz pianist who rubbed elbows with the form's superstars but found her biggest following through a 25-year gig in a Manhattan bank lobby, died on March 9 at a hospice. She was 82 and had recently been told that she had cancer, her son Donald said. Drawn to
 Sofia Golovkina, a former ballerina with the Bolshoi Ballet who directed the Moscow Ballet School, the company's affiliated academy, with an iron grip for 40 years, died on Feb. 17 in Moscow. She was 88. Ms. Golovkina, whose death was reported by the Novosti press agency, was famili
 Emily Morison Beck, the self-described literary archaeologist who edited three editions of Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, mining sources from sea chanteys to Shakespeare, died on Sunday at her home in Canton, Mass. She was 88. The cause was kidney failure, her son Gordon M. Beck sa
