 Jay Presson Allen, who as an adapter of novels for plays and movies developed some of the most memorable roles for women in the late 1960's and 1970's, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Brooke Allen. Ms. A
 Henriette D. Avram, a systems analyst who four decades ago transformed millions of dog-eared catalog cards in the Library of Congress into a searchable electronic database, and in the process helped transform the gentle art of librarianship into the sleek new field of information science, d
 Sister Rose Thering, a Roman Catholic nun and a former professor at Seton Hall University who battled anti-Semitism within her church and contributed to a historic Vatican declaration that Jews were not collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, died on Saturday at a convent in Racine
 Luba Kadison Buloff, who went from playing children's roles to reigning as a leading lady in the Yiddish theater, helping bring its flavorful blend of wrenching drama and comedic shrug from Europe to the Lower East Side in the 1920's, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 99.  
 Barbara Schwartz, an artist whose painted plaster reliefs were tangentially associated with the Pattern and Decoration movement in New York in the late 1970's, died on Monday in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 58. The cause was leukemia that developed from chemotherapy for ovari
 Ruth Gay, a writer known for her nonfiction books documenting Jewish life in the Old World and the New, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan. She had been suffering from leukemia, and died at Calvary Hospital, her family said. Ms. Gay's books inclu
 Joan Diener, whose lush beauty, showstopping stage presence and operatic voice made her a favorite in musicals, especially in the original 1965 ''Man of La Mancha'' as well as its revivals as late as 1992, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was complications from c
 Joyce Ballantyne Brand, a commercial and pinup artist who created the famed Coppertone Girl advertisement, died on Monday at her home in Ocala, Fla. She was 88. She suffered a heart attack late last week and had been released from the hospital under hospice care, her daughter Cheri 
 Katherine Dunham, the dancer, choreographer, teacher and anthropologist whose pioneering work introduced much of the black heritage in dance to the stage, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96. Her death was confirmed by Dr. Glory Van Scott, a friend and former Dunham dan
 Judith Moore, the author of ''Fat Girl,'' a searingly angry and widely praised memoir about being overweight, died on May 15 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 66. The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter Rebecca Moore. ''I am a short, squat toad of a woman,'' Ms. Moore wrote 
 Elizabeth A. Connelly, a New York State assemblywoman from Staten Island for 27 years who was a leader in the fight against drunken driving, died yesterday at her home in the Westerleigh section of the borough. She was 77. The cause was cancer, her husband, Robert, said. Mrs
 Cheikha Rimitti, a pioneer of the rebellious Algerian pop called raï, died on May 15 in Paris, where she had lived since 1978. She was 83. The cause was a heart attack, her Web site said. Cheikha Rimitti was considered the queen of raï (RYE or rah-AY), which means opinion 
 Carolyn Shaw Bell, an economist at Wellesley College who took her fight for equal opportunities for women in economics from the college into the national arena, died May 13 at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 85. Mary Ann Hill, a college spokeswoman, announced Dr. Bell's death.   
