 Galina Brezhnev, the high-living daughter of the former Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev whose antics often led to scandal, died today in a Moscow hospital. She was 69. Russian news agencies said she is to be cremated on Wednesday. There were no details about the cause of death.    
 Julia Perles, a longtime Manhattan lawyer who played an important part in bringing about a significant change in New York State's divorce legislation, died early Wednesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84 and had lived in Sarasota for about four years. The 
 Kay Thompson, an entertainer who became the author of the hugely successful book ''Eloise,'' about a bratty child living at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, died on Thursday. She lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan with her goddaughter, Liza Minnelli. She was taken from the apartment to 
 Betty Lehan Harragan, a writer, consultant and advocate for women's equality in the workplace, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to Kathleen Harragan, her daughter. Betty H
 Chana Timoner, a onetime housewife with such a passionate devotion to tradition and social justice that she became first a rabbi and then the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time Army chaplain, died on Monday at her home in New Haven. She was 46 and had received a medical discharge ea
 Ruth Snedden Shoup, whose many years in New York public affairs and whose tenure on the city's Board of Higher Education bridged the mayoralties of Fiorello H. La Guardia and John V. Lindsay, died on June 25 at Ledges retirement home in Laconia, N.H. A former resident of Riverdale, the Bron
 Geraldine Owen Delaney, a nutritionist who founded a highly regarded New Jersey treatment center for people recovering from alcohol and drug addictions, as she had, died on July 9 at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. She was 91 and lived in Frelinghuysen Township. In 1957, sh
 Gisella Caccialanza, a major American ballerina with George Balanchine's first New York company and with the San Francisco Ballet, died on Thursday in Seton Hospital in Daly City, Calif. She was 83 and lived in San Bruno, Calif. The cause was a stroke, said Diane Kounalakis, associa
 Edith Appleton Standen, one of the world's leading authorities on tapestries and a longtime curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last weekend at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. Ms. Standen's writings, which include an award-winning, two-volume catalogue of the Met's Eu
 Bertha Boschwitz Leubsdorf, a volunteer and philanthropist who endowed the Karl and Bertha Leubsdorf Gallery at Hunter College, died on July 17 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 90. A native of Berlin, she moved to New York as a girl and graduated from Hunter 
 Patsy Southgate, a writer and translator who helped inspire the literary flowering of Paris in the 1950's and later helped establish the writers' colony on eastern Long Island, becoming a beloved intimate of many of the leading artists of her day, died on July 18 at the Stony Brook Universi
 Elaine Aiken, a Method acting teacher, former member of the Actors Studio and a founder and director of Actors Conservatory in Manhattan, died on July 12 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was cancer, said Lily Lodge, the other founder and directo
 Binnie Barnes, an English actress who was lured to Hollywood after her role as Catherine Howard in ''The Private Life of Henry VIII,'' the 1933 film starring Charles Laughton, died on Monday at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 95. After a stint as a milkmaid at 15, the auburn-hair
