 Janet C. Carter, a champion of African and African-American fine arts, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. The cause of her death was heart failure, said her husband, Ron Carter, the jazz bassist. He declined to disclose her age. Mrs. Carter had a role in the formative stages of t
 Vicki Sue Robinson, the vivacious pop-gospel singer whose 1976 hit ''Turn the Beat Around'' became a signature anthem of the disco era, died on Thursday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 46. The cause was cancer, said Gina Andriolo, her publicist. A prolific jingle singer
 Penelope Fitzgerald, who began a prize-winning literary career late in life with a series of understated novels written in lilting prose, died on Friday in Highgate, London. She was 83 and lived in London. Ms. Fitzgerald was the author of the 1995 novel ''The Blue Flower'' about the
 Helen Beardsley, a mother of 20 who recounted the story of her unusual family in a book that was later made into a popular movie, died  April 26 at a hospital in Healdsburg, Calif. She was 70 and lived in Santa Rosa, Calif. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, her f
 Teri Thornton, a jazz singer who had started to resurrect her career after winning the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition in 1998 and being signed to a major record label for the first time in three decades, died on Tuesday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in New Jersey.
 Ruth D. Turner, a Harvard professor, author, curator and diver who became one of the world's leading experts in the species of mollusks that devour wooden piers and sunken ships, died on April 30 at a nursing home in Waltham, Mass. She was 85. Dr. Turner added volumes to the underst
 Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92. Dr. Rheingold did not begin her specialized research until she was 45, after 20 years of pa
 Elizabeth Wilcox, who took more than 100,000 sensitive photographs chronicling 35 years of medical care at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and then gave them to the center, died on May 6 at a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. She was 84 and had lived in the Riverdale sectio
 Priscilla Rudin Stern, who took pride in being the daughter, wife and mother of rabbis, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Great Barrington, Mass. The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Rabbi Jack Stern, the former leader o
 Paula Wessely, a legendary Austrian stage and screen actress whose postwar career flourished despite her having starred in several Nazi propaganda movies, died on Thursday at a hospital in Vienna. She was 93. Ms. Wessely, whose distinctive voice was immediately recognizable to sever
 Verna Aardema Vugteveen, a late-blooming, prolific writer who regaled generations of American children with the folklore of faraway Africa, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88. Verna Aardema, the name on her books (of Dutch origin and pronounced AR-duh-
 Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her  daughter, K
 Louise Tanner, a writer whose work often mirrored her Social Register upbringing, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The widow of Edward Everett Tanner 3rd, who, as Patrick Dennis, wrote ''Auntie Mame,'' Ms. Tanner was herself the author of five books, including th
 Eva BobrowEva Bobrow, who earned the first of three associate's degrees from Queensborough Community College in Bayside, Queens, when she was 64 and went on to become the institution's most important private benefactor, died May 12 at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. She was 92 a
 Margaret Connors Driscoll, the first woman to be chief judge of the Connecticut Juvenile Court, died on Tuesday at the Carolton Chronic and Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Bridgeport, Conn. Judge Driscoll was named to the juvenile court in 1960 and 
 Barbara Cartland, whose outpouring of more than 700 romance novels during seven decades made her the undisputed queen of a genre for hundreds of millions of readers the world over, died yesterday at her home near Hatfield in Hertfordshire, England. She was 98. Throughout her profess
 Emily W. ReedEmily W. Reed, who in 1959 enraged Alabama segregationists by allowing a book about a fuzzy white rabbit marrying a fuzzy black rabbit onto the shelves of the state's central library, died on May 19 at a retirement community in Cockeysville, Md. She was 89. The confront
 Edele Nielsen Holtz, who helped create the Clark Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan and played an important role in Alvin Ailey's early career, died on May 20 at the Asheville Health Care Facility in Swannanoa, N.C. She was 82 and lived in Swannanoa. Ms. Holtz and her husba
