 Bernadette O'Farrell, an actress best known for her role as Maid Marian in the 1950's television series ''The Adventures of Robin Hood,'' died this week at 75, The Daily Telegraph of London reported on Wednesday. Ms. O'Farrell was often seen in cinematic roles written by her husband
 Doreen Valiente, a self-proclaimed witch who in the mid-1950's wrote part of the liturgy now used by witches around the world, died in Brighton, England, on Sept. 1. She was 77. Through lectures and her many books, Ms. Valiente became the chief proselytizer of the white witch moveme
 Marilyn Silverstone, who left a career as a top photographer for the simple life of a Buddhist nun with the name Ngawang Chodron, died of cancer in a monastery near Katmandu last Tuesday, her sister Susan Darer said. She was 70. She founded a nunnery several years ago near Katmandu,
 Laura Adasko Lenzner, an artist who worked in pastel, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 50 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Allan Lenzner. Ms. Lenzner, who went by Laura Adasko professionally, was bo
 Amalia Rodrigues, the Portuguese singer who was considered the queen of fado, died yesterday at her home in Lisbon. She was 79. Her recording company, Valentim de Carvalho, said she was found dead in her bed by her secretary. Fado, which means fate in Portuguese, is a passio
 Marie-Madeleine Durufle, an internationally renowned organist and teacher and the widow of the French composer and organist Maurice Durufle, died on Oct. 5 in Paris, where she lived. She was 78. Mrs. Durufle, a technically formidable organist, was generally considered the last great
 Monique Beudert, a museum curator who worked in New York and London, died last Saturday at her home in London. She was 48. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Ms. Beudert was born on Long Island and studied art history at Connecticut College, earning a B.A. in 1972
 Carol Berlin Manzoni, a Chicago lawyer whose knack for recruiting clients propelled her rapid rise in the legal profession, died on Oct. 9 at her home in Chicago. She was 52. The cause was heart disease, the Blake-Lamb Funeral Home said. Ms. Manzoni was a leading player at R
 Ella Mae Morse, the sultry, swinging pop-jazz singer whose 1942 hit, ''Cow-Cow Boogie,'' became the first million seller for the fledgling Capitol Records and helped establish the label, died on Saturday at the Western Arizona Regional Medical Center in Bullhead City. She was 75 and lived i
 Lee Lozano, an eccentric artist who pursued Conceptual Art and painting in the 1960's and then left the New York art world for self-imposed exile that included an embargo on contact with other women, died on Oct. 2 in the Dallas Health and Rehabilitation Center in Texas.  She was 68 and liv
 Irene Heskes, a historian and author who specialized in sacred and secular Jewish music, including music of the Yiddish theater, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. She was 76 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. The cause was aplastic anemia, said Dr. Alan M. Kraut, her 
 Nathalie Sarraute, the Russian-born French novelist who remained an influential and innovative literary figure long after she first gained fame as the doyenne of the Nouveau Roman movement in the late 1950's, died today at her home in Paris. She was 99 and also had a country home in Cherenc
 Penelope Mortimer, an English author who drew on her complex and often turbulent relationships with men in writing novels like ''The Pumpkin Eater'' and a heatedly debated account of the romantic life of Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, died on Tuesday at a London hospice. She was 81 and 
 Wilma Curley, a ballet and Broadway dancer who became noted for restaging works by Jerome Robbins, died on Oct. 16 at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver failure, said the dancer Christian Holder, a friend. Ms. Curley was 
 Maria Ley Piscator, a theater arts teacher and director and the widow of the theatrical director Erwin Piscator, died on Oct. 14 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. She was 101. Born in Vienna, Ms. Piscator began her theatrical career as a dancer in Berlin and
 Wendy Scott, who had one of the most severe cases on record of a syndrome in which people feign illness or make themselves sick to get medical treatment, died on Oct. 14 at a hospice in South London. She was 50. The cause was intestinal cancer, said Mary Jane Lang, a friend of Miss 
 Barbara Wolff, a veteran New York City official who was instrumental in setting up the city's business improvement districts program and in the commercial revitalization program that followed the blackout of 1977, died Oct. 15 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 58.    
 Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux, who sold her first book for $1 million when she was 98, died on Saturday in a hospital in Duluth, Minn., where she was vacationing with her daughter. She was 100. Miss (her preference) Foveaux (pronounced FOH-voh), a snowy-haired great-great-grandmother, li
 Linda F. Pezzano, a marketing consultant who helped what once was an obscure Canadian board game, Trivial Pursuit, achieve sales totaling more than $1 billion, died Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 54. She died of cervical cancer, said her brother David. The Trivia
 Ginette Lesley Harrison, an outstanding alpinist, was lost in an avalanche on Sunday on one of the most treacherous Himalayan mountains.  She was 41. A British-born physician who specialized in high-altitude medicine, Dr. Harrison was part of an 11-member international expedition sc
