 Elizabeth Coykendall Chase, a former campaign adviser to United States Senator Jacob K. Javits, died on Sunday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. She was 77 years old and lived in Stamford. Mrs. Chase, a writer and public relations specialist, counseled Mr. Javits in his first suc
 Princess Brown Thrush, a Matinnecock Indian who fought for the rights of her tribe, died on Jan. 20 at Booth Memorial Medical Center in Queens. She was 80 years old and lived at the Matinnecock-Tackapoosha tribal longhouse in Flushing. Princess Brown Thrush, whose Christian name was
 Kathrine Robinson Everett, one of the nation's oldest and longest-practicing lawyers when she retired a year ago at the age of 97 after a 70-year career, died Tuesday at her home in Durham, N.C. She was 98 years old. Her family said she died of heart failure. Mrs. Everett wa
 Frances Young Tang, a philanthropist in the field of education and a preservationist specializing in landmark buildings, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 53 years old and also had homes in Oyster Bay, L.I., and Vail, Colo. She died of cancer, said her husband, Oscar 
 Dr. Gloria Friedman Franklin, a psychoanalyst and faculty member of the William Alanson White Institute of Psychiatry, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old. She died of breast cancer, said her husband, Dr. Girard Franklin, also a psychoanalyst. Dr. F
 Lisa Fonssagrives-Penn, a leading fashion model in the 1940's and 50's, died Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Huntington L.I. She died of pneumonia, a family representative said. An elegant blonde, the Swedish-born model posed for some of the m
 Elizabeth Man Sarcka, a founder of Spring Lake Ranch in Vermont, one of the earliest halfway houses for the mentally ill, died on Sunday at Hampshire House, a community care home in East Montpelier, Vt. She was 98 years old and lived much of her life in Long Island City and Richmond Hill, Q
 Rose Korn Hirschman, a real-estate lawyer and volunteer at the United Nations and other organizations, died Jan. 24 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of liver failure, her family said. Born in Manhattan, she grew up
 Frances Adlerstein Koestler, an author and an expert on blindness, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of respiratory illness, her relatives said. Mrs. Koestler wrote "The Unseen Minority" (McKay,
 Marjorie McKeown Clay, widow of Gen. Lucius D. Clay, commander of American forces in Europe after World War II, died of pneumonia on Saturday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. She was 94 years old and lived in McLean, Va. Mrs. Clay, a graduate of Barnard College, was livin
 Mercedes (Chiquita) Gregory, a documentary film maker and an influential figure in experimental theater, died on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 56 years old and lived in Santa Ynez, Calif. She had breast cancer for three years, said her husband, Andre, the s
 Taraja Linda Fraser Samuel, an important figure in the development of the New York City Board of Education's Mentoring Program, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. A resident of Brooklyn, she was 41 years old. She died of cancer, her friends said. 
 Dorothy Uris, a Broadway and Hollywood actress and voice teacher known professionally as Dorothy Tree, died yesterday at the Actor's Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 85 years old. She died of heart failure, said her son, Joseph Uris of Manhattan. Mrs. Uris, who was born 
 Ronnie Paris, a playwright, novelist and teacher, died on Feb. 4 at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 67 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Bearsville, N.Y. She died of an aneurysm, said her son Peter Stein of New Haven. Ms. Paris's plays have been produced i
 Stella Roman, a soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera Company, died on Wednesday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of respiratory failure, said her son, Flaviu Romanul of Boston. Miss Roman was known for her interpretations of the gr
 Constance M. Adamec, a vice president in Sotheby's finance department and a tenant advocate on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, died suddenly on Monday at her home. She was 52 years old. An announcement by Sotheby's said she died of an asthma attack. Ms. Adamec had a 33-yea
 Jeanne F. Bernkopf, who edited "Scarlett" and many other best-selling books, died on Monday in Manhattan.  She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. She was stricken and died while riding in a taxi, her family said. No exact cause of death has been determined. Mrs. Bernko
 Margaret Berol Craig, a champion shower of horses and trainer of dogs, died Monday at her home in Danbury, Conn. She was 78 years old. Mrs. Craig had been a part owner of her family's company, the Berol Corporation, the manufacturers of Eagle pencils. It was founded in Germany in th
 Paula Ruth Oboler Schwartz, a psychotherapist, social worker and civil rights advocate, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. Her family would not give her age. She died of cancer, her family said. In the 1960's she was a caseworker for the Suffolk County Social Service
 Dr. Carole Chenitz-Manley, a nursing administrator, educator and researcher who became an advocate for women with AIDS, died Tuesday at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. She was 45 years old and lived in Greenbrae. The cause of death was AIDS-related pneumonia, her family 
 Linda M. Arenth, a nursing executive and innovator in the care of cancer patients, died Feb. 9 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. She was 59 years old and lived in Baltimore. She died of cancer, her family said. Mrs. Arenth was the vice president of nursing and patient 
 Shirley Berman, whose daughter, born with Down Syndrome, inspired her to wage a battle for a New Jersey law requiring doctors to inform parents if their unborn child is retarded, died on Feb. 8 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 55 years old and lived in Upper Saddle River, N.
 Angela Carter, a novelist and short-story writer, died at her home in London on Sunday. She was 51 years old. She died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for Farrar, Straus & Giroux, her publisher in New York. Ms. Carter's work was widely praised in Britain, although less widely 
 Jane Pickens Hoving, a popular singer on Broadway, radio and television for 20 years and later an organizer in numerous philanthropies and society events, died on Friday at her home in Newport, R.I. She was 83 years old and also had a home in Manhattan. She died of heart fai
 Jane Pickens Hoving, a popular singer on Broadway, radio and television for 20 years and later an organizer in numerous philanthropies and society events, died on Friday at her home in Newport, R.I. She was 83 years old and also had a home in Manhattan. She died of heart fai
 Jean R. Yawkey, the majority owner of the Red Sox, a fixture at Fenway Park for almost half a century and a major Boston philanthropist, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, six days after suffering a severe stoke. She was 83 years old. Despite reports that sh
 Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii. She was 49 years old. She had a blood disorder involving hypoglycemia and metastatic can
 Shirley R. Levittan, an Acting State Supreme Court judge from 1974 until she retired last year, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of pemphigus vulgaris, a rare skin disease, a court spokeswoman said. Before 
 Susan Kaplan Hopwood, a marketing and sales executive in New York City, died on Feb. 8 at her home in Newtonville, Mass. She was 55 years old. She died of a pulmonary embolism, her family said. Mrs. Hopwood was advertising sales manager of Barron's, the business weekly, in t
 Isabelle Siegel, a sculptor, died on Tuesday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 49 years old. She took her own life, her family said. Between 1984 and 1990, Ms. Siegel had three one-person shows at the Kraushaar Galleries in New York City. She also had shows at the Pace G
 Anne Pappenheimer Forbes, a noted endocrinology researcher and clinician, died on Tuesday at her home in Milton, Mass. She was 80 years old. She died of Hodgkin's disease, her family said. Dr. Forbes was chosen in 1939 as the associate of Dr. Fuller Albright, the chief of en
 Marion F. Schappel, a retired vice president at Citibank and one of the first women there to reach that rank, died on Wednesday at her home in Somers, N.Y. She was 67 years old. She died of complications of cancer, her family said. Miss Schappel was born in Brooklyn and grew
 Mary Childs Black, an art historian, folk art expert, former museum director and writer, died yesterday at her home in Germantown, N.Y. She was 69 years old. She died of cancer, said M. J. Gladstone, a friend. Mrs. Black's greatest contribution to American folk art scholarsh
