 Joan Guggenheimer, a soft-spoken lawyer who had the ear of the chief executives at two of the world's biggest banks, died Sunday at her home near Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 54. The cause was colon cancer, her husband, Peter, said. As general counsel of Citigroup and later of J.
 Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, the German-born soprano whose interpretations of Strauss and Mozart made her one of the most dazzling artists of her time, died yesterday at her home in Austria. She was 90. Her death was reported by Austrian state television. Citing a funeral home director, t
 Andrée Ruellan, a noted painter of the 1930's and 40's whose complete body of work spans almost the entire 20th century, died on July 15 in Kingston, N.Y. She was 101 and lived for many years in Shady, N.Y., near Woodstock. Her death was confirmed by a friend, Daniel Gelfand. Ms. R
 Arlene Raven, a pioneering historian and advocate of women's art, died Tuesday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 62. The cause was cancer, said the Michael Rosenfeld Gallery, which represents her companion, the artist Nancy Grossman. In 1973 Ms. Raven was a founder, with the 
 Susan Butcher, a pioneer for women in sled-dog racing who won the Iditarod race four times and influenced the training and treatment of dogs in the sport, died Saturday at a hospital in Seattle. She was 51. The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Jan Abkowitz, the lead physician who treate
 Dr. Jean Baker Miller, a psychiatrist who disputed traditional notions of social roles and developed a theory that serves as a foundation for treating women's depression and other disorders through the building of fruitful relationships, died on July 29 at her home in Brookline, Mass. She w
 Melissa Hayden, one of American ballet's greatest ballerinas, whose exultant, dramatic style defied the supposed impersonal mold of the ''Balanchine dancer,'' making her one of New York City Ballet's first international stars, died yesterday at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C. She was 83.   
 Gay Delanghe, a modern-dance choreographer and performer whose work was staged in New York in the 1960's and 70's and who became an influential teacher, died on Aug. 1 in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 65. The cause was ovarian cancer, according to Peter Sparling, a friend and colleague. 
 Alice Stone Ilchman, an economist and political scientist who was president of Sarah Lawrence College for nearly 20 years, died on Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 71. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Judith Schwartzstein, a spokeswoman for the co
 Diane Shamash, the founder and executive director of Minetta Brook, a nonprofit art organization that helped bring the artist Robert Smithson's quixotic ''Floating Island'' project to life last year and sent it circumnavigating Manhattan for nine days, died on Sunday at her home in Brooklyn
 Victoria Jackson Gray Adams, a key figure in the struggle by Mississippi blacks to win their political and civil rights in the 1960's and the first woman to seek a seat in the United States Senate from her state, died Aug. 12 in Baltimore. She was 79. Her death was announced by her 
 Lydia, Duchess of Bedford, an English aristocrat who helped transform Woburn Abbey, her second husband's ancestral home in Bedfordshire, into a pioneering and satisfyingly lucrative example of blueblood tourism, died July 25 in Chertsey, Surrey, England. She was 88. Her death came a
 Marie Tharp, an oceanographic cartographer whose work in the 1950's, 60's and 70's helped throw into relief -- literally -- the largely uncharted landscape of the world's ocean floor, died on Wednesday in Nyack, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of South Nyack. The cause was cancer, ac
 Leslie Kaul, who as the executive chef of Daily Soup, a chain of Manhattan soup bars, helped make it trendy for New Yorkers to savor a bowl of tomato cheddar, clam chowder or Jamaican pumpkin soup as a meal in itself, died Sunday at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. She was 48. The 
 Marion Cajori, an independent filmmaker who chronicled the creative process in documentaries about artists, died on Aug. 8 in Manhattan. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan and Setauket, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Nicholas Quennell, a member of the board of the Art Kaleidoscope F
 Annely Juda, a London art dealer whose gallery, Annely Juda Fine Art, was known for its pioneering shows of early European modernists, died on Aug. 13 in London. She was 91. Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the 
