 The mezzo-soprano Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, who won near universal praise from critics and audiences for her courageous, insightful and deeply affecting artistry, died on Monday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 52. Her death was reported by Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice presiden
 Dorothy Hayden Truscott, for many years the top-ranked woman in bridge and the winner of four world titles and more than two dozen national championships, died on Tuesday in New Russia, N.Y. She was 80. Her death was announced by her daughter Margaret Cooke. It followed a long battl
 June Allyson, whose perky wholesomeness made her the perfect girlfriend in a series of MGM musicals during the 1940's and the perfect screen wife during the 1950's, died on Saturday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She was 88. Her death was announced yesterday by her daughter, Pamela All
 Dorothy Uhnak, once famous as a 125-pound New York City Transit Authority policewoman who knocked down and arrested an armed mugger and then better known as the author of gritty, suspenseful, best-selling crime novels, died on Saturday in Greenport, N.Y. She was 76 and lived in Shelter Isla
 Mary Day, one of American ballet's most distinguished teachers and the longtime artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 96. The cause was heart failure, said Judith Keyserling, the Washington Ballet spokeswoman. Unlike m
 Zelda Foster, a social worker and early leader of the hospice movement who wrote a seminal article in 1965 attacking what she called the ''conspiracy of silence'' facing dying patients in hospitals, died on July 4 at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. She was 71. The cause was cancer
 Carrie Nye, a stage, film and television actress and a fixture at the Williamstown Theater Festival, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, the television host Dick Cavett. Ms. Nye, known for her dry wit and Mississippi
 Ruth Schonthal, an American composer and pianist of German birth whose eclectic music brought together elements as diverse as European Romanticism, Mexican folk song and Minimalism, died on July 10 at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 82. The cause was complications of a recent he
 Cora T. Walker, a prominent New York lawyer who nearly 60 years ago became one of the first black women to practice law in the state, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was cancer, said her son Lawrence R. Bailey Jr., a lawyer, who practiced with his 
 Martha E. Peterson, the president of Barnard College in the turbulent Vietnam War era who went on hold the same position at Beloit College, died last Friday at her home in Madison, Wis. She was 90. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Ron Nief, a spokesman for Be
 Dorothea Towles Church, the first successful black model in Paris, who discovered personal liberation on the runways of Christian Dior and Elsa Schiaparelli in the 1950's, died on July 7 in Manhattan. She was 83. Her death was confirmed by Michael Henry Adams, a curator at the Museu
 Reathel Odum, a bank clerk who was chosen by Senator Harry S. Truman during the Depression to be one of his secretaries and later served in the White House as personal secretary to Bess Truman, died in her hometown, Benton, Ill., on June 6. She was 97. Miss Odum's nephew, Richard Od
 Dika Newlin, who composed a symphony at 11, became a distinguished composer and musicologist and emerged, in her 70's and 80's, as a most unlikely punk rocker, died on July 22 in Richmond, Va. She was 82. The cause was complications of a broken arm she suffered on June 30, said Sabi
 Louise Simone Bennett-Coverly, a Jamaican poet and folklorist who became the voice of the island's culture at home and abroad, died on Wednesday in Toronto. She was 86. Her death was announced by the Jamaica Information Service, which did not give a cause. She was hospitalized in To
