Ellen Lewis Buell Cash, former children's books editor of The New York Times Book Review, died yesterday in Chattanooga, Tenn. She was 84 years old. Ellen Lewis Buell Cash, former children's books editor of The New York Times Book Review, died yesterday in Chattanooga, Tenn. S
Joan M. Cohen, a volunteer who was a trustee of the United Jewish Appeal - Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, died of cancer Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn. Joan M. Cohen, a volunteer who was a 
Ruth Doloboff Coleman, a photographer and former president of the Pictorial Photographers of America, died of cancer Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ruth Doloboff Coleman, a photographer and former president of the Picto
Sadie Tanner Mosell Alexander, a lawyer and civil rights advocate for 50 years who achieved a number of academic and professional distinctions as a black woman, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Cathedral Village, a retirement community, in Philadelphia. She was 91 years old and had been
Dorothy Fuldheim, a news commentator and interviewer who remained on television beyond the age of 90, died of complications from a stroke today at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 96 years old. Dorothy Fuldheim, a news commentator and interviewer who remained on television 
Cynthia Ellen Northrop, a nurse, lawyer and educator, died of colon cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 39 years old. Ms. Northrop, who was in private practice in New York, was also an adjunct professor at Teachers College and at the Graduate School of Health Services a
D'Jaris Hinton Watson, an administrator for three New York City mayors, died of cancer Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old. D'Jaris Hinton Watson, an administrator for three New York City mayors, died of cancer Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 year
Margot Seitelman, executive director of American Mensa Ltd., a society of people with high I.Q.'s, died Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. She was 61 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Margot Seitelman, executive director of American Mensa Ltd., a society of peo
Sister Magdeleine de Jesus, author and founder of an order of Roman Catholic nuns, died Monday at the order's headquarters in Rome. She was 91 years old. Born Magdeleine Hutin at Montigny-les-Metz in eastern France on April 26, 1898, she founded the Fraternite des Petites Soeurs de Je
Maud Russell, who spent a quarter of a century in China as a welfare worker and teacher for the Young Women's Christian Association and lobbied for American recognition of the Chinese Communist Government after World War II, died of lung cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She 
Mildred Bennett, an authority on the novelist Willa Cather, died of lung cancer on Tuesday. She was 80 years old. Mildred Bennett, an authority on the novelist Willa Cather, died of lung cancer on Tuesday. She was 80 years old. Mrs. Bennett's interest in Cather began i
Dr. Virginia Connolly Mitty, a pediatrician in Manhattan for more than 40 years, died of a stroke on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 70 years old. Dr. Virginia Connolly Mitty, a pediatrician in Manhattan for more than 40 years, died of a stroke o
Gertrude Honig Schweitzer, an artist whose works are in collections at several prominent museums, died Friday after a brief illness, at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. She was 79 years old and lived in Colts Neck, N.J., Palm Beach, Fla. and Santa Fe, N.M. Gertrude
Anni Salomons, a designer who founded and owned Anivo, an international fashion house that specialized in hand-crocheted and hand-knit custom-designed women's wear, died of heart disease Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90 years old. Anni Salomons, a designer who fou
Dolores Ibarruri, the president of the Spanish Communist Party and a fiery orator who came to be known in the Spanish Civil War as ''La Pasionaria,'' died in a hospital here tonight after a long illness. She was 93 years old.  Party officials said after an emergency meeting that her b
Dolores Ibarruri was better known at home and abroad under her battle name, La Pasionaria, the Passion Flower. A Basque left-winger who was a founder of the Spanish Communist Party, she won international renown during the Spanish Civil War for her indomitable stand. Dolores Ib
Ann Hatfield Rothschild, who helped design the interiors of several well-known New York City buildings, died Thursday at a nursing home in Newton, Mass. She was 86 years old and had moved to North Easton, Mass., last year, from Piermont, N.Y., where she lived for many years. A
Katharine Randall, a former secretary of the Tarrytown Women's Civic League, died of a heart attack Sunday at the home of her daughter Frances Wood in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. She was 97 years old and lived in Irvington. Katharine Randall, a former secretary of the Tarrytown Women's Ci
Dorothy (Cookie) Mueller, an actress, columnist and art critic, died of pneumonia resulting from AIDS on Friday at Cabrini Medical Center. She was 40 years old and lived in the West Village. Dorothy (Cookie) Mueller, an actress, columnist and art critic, died of pneumonia resu
Blanche Schwartz, a teacher and public school principal in Manhattan for 46 years, died of a heart attack Monday at the Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. Blanche Schwartz, a teacher and public school principal in Manhattan for 46
Joy Dewey Beinecke, a dance teacher and consultant, died of cancer yesterday at her home on Nantucket Island, Mass. She was 59 years old. Joy Dewey Beinecke, a dance teacher and consultant, died of cancer yesterday at her home on Nantucket Island, Mass. She was 59 years old.  
Parmenia Migel Ekstrom, a biographer, ballet historian, exhibition organizer and founder and president of the Stravinsky-Diaghilev Foundation, died of cancer on Tuesday at her home in New York. She was 81 years old. Parmenia Migel Ekstrom, a biographer, ballet historian, exhib
Joy Dewey Beinecke, a dance teacher and consultant, died of cancer Wednesday at her home on Nantucket Island, Mass. She was 59 years old. Joy Dewey Beinecke, a dance teacher and consultant, died of cancer Wednesday at her home on Nantucket Island, Mass. She was 59 years old.  
Helen Serger, a dealer in modern art, died Thursday at Cabrini Hospital in Manhattan after a brief illness. She was 88 years old. Helen Serger, a dealer in modern art, died Thursday at Cabrini Hospital in Manhattan after a brief illness. She was 88 years old. Mrs. Serg
Jean Holloway Tobin, a scriptwriter for radio, film and television, died of a stroke Saturday. She was 72 years old. Jean Holloway Tobin, a scriptwriter for radio, film and television, died of a stroke Saturday. She was 72 years old. Mrs. Tobin began writing for radio 
Julia McGuire Blewer, a former program chairwoman of the Women's Association of Brick Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, died Thursday at New York Hospital. She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Julia McGuire Blewer, a former program chairwoman of the Women's Association
Claire Lang von Arnold, a fashion consultant and retailing executive, died of pneumonia Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 years old. Claire Lang von Arnold, a fashion consultant and retailing executive, died of pneumonia Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 ye
Norma Terris, who was catapulted to stardom as a lead in the original production of ''Show Boat,'' died Wednesday after a brief illness at her summer home in Lyme, Conn. She was 87 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Norma Terris, who was catapulted to stardom as a le
Zola Helen Ross, the author of dozens of novels and children's books, died last Tuesday after a long illness. She was 82 years old and lived in Seattle. Zola Helen Ross, the author of dozens of novels and children's books, died last Tuesday after a long illness. She was 82 yea
Antoinette Quilleret, a a co-founder and former president of David Webb Inc., the jewelry concern, died of complications of cancer on Thursday at her home in Marbella, Spain. She was 85 years old. Antoinette Quilleret, a a co-founder and former president of David Webb Inc., th
Dr. Linda L. Mazzola, director of Medicaid services for the New York City Health Department from 1968 to 1977, died of heart failure Sunday at the Bayberry Nursing Home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 78 years old and had lived for many years in Manhattan. Dr. Linda L. Mazzola, 
Rachel Bernstein Wischnitzer, a professor and art historian who specialized in synagogue architecture, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 104 years old. Rachel Bernstein Wischnitzer, a professor and art historian who specialized in synagogue architecture, died Monda
Rose (Chee Chee) Murphy, a jazz pianist and singer whose birdlike high-pitched voice brought her fame, died on Thursday in St. John's Hospital in Queens. She was 76 years old and lived in St. Albans, Queens. Rose (Chee Chee) Murphy, a jazz pianist and singer whose birdlike hig
Dr. Eleanor J. Farrar, an educator, author and education researcher, died of cancer Sunday at her home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. She was 50 years old. Dr. Eleanor J. Farrar, an educator, author and education researcher, died of cancer Sunday at her home in Shaker Heights, Ohio.
Helen Lehman Buttenwieser, among the first women admitted to the City Bar Association in New York and a civic leader, died of heart failure yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Helen Lehman Buttenwieser, among the first women admitted to
Dr. Katharine Butler, a retired attending physician at New York Hospital and clinical associate professor of medicine at Cornell Medical College, died Saturday at Crosslands, a Quaker life-care community near Kennett Square, Pa. She was 91 years old. Dr. Katharine Butler, a re
Carol Janeway, a ceramist and longtime member of Community Board 2 in Greenwich Village, died of pneumonia Wednesday at New York Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Carol Janeway, a ceramist and longtime member of Community Board 2 in Greenwich Village, died
Rachel Wischnitzer, an authority on synagogue architecture and a professor emeritus at Yeshiva University, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 104 years old. Rachel Wischnitzer, an authority on synagogue architecture and a professor emeritus at Yeshiva University, di
Capt. Rita Lenihan of the Navy, who was the director of the Waves and became chairwoman of the regents at Georgetown University after retirement from the service, died of cancer Thursday at Bethesda (Md.) Naval Hospital. She was 75 years old and lived in Washington. Capt. Rita
Johanna M. Hopkins, who was a schools superindendent in the northwest Bronx from 1942 to 1964 and the first woman to hold such a post in New York City, died Thursday in the Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. She was 94 years old and lived in Kings Park, L.I. Johanna M. Hopkins, who w
Maria C. Sanchez, a Connecticut State Representative who built a political base from a small convenience store in Hartford, died on Saturday at her home there. She was 63 years old and died of natural causes, said Robert Clark, director of the DeLeon Funeral Home in Hartford. 
Martha Redfield Wallace, a management consultant who was a director of many corporations, died of a heart attack Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old.  She was the founder in 1983 of a consulting business, Redfield Associates, which helped to raise money for many caus
Teresa S. Reardon, an administrative law judge in the New York City Parking Violations Bureau, died of cancer Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Teresa S. Reardon, an administrative law judge in the New York City Pa
Edith S. Stevens, a volunteer for Planned Parenthood of Union County, N.J., died of a stroke on Nov. 22 at her home in Plainfield, N.J. She was 90 years old. Edith S. Stevens, a volunteer for Planned Parenthood of Union County, N.J., died of a stroke on Nov. 22 at her home in 
Eliana Martinez, an AIDS patient whose mother successfully fought a court ruling that the child be in a glass cage in school classes, died of the disease on Monday. She was 8 years old. Eliana Martinez, an AIDS patient whose mother successfully fought a court ruling that the c
Priscilla Robertson, an author, a historian and a teacher, died of a stroke on Sunday at Humana Hospital-Suburban in Louisville, Ky. She was 79 years old. Priscilla Robertson, an author, a historian and a teacher, died of a stroke on Sunday at Humana Hospital-Suburban in Louis
Dorothy Stebbins Bowles, a social worker and former chairwoman of the Board of Education in Essex, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Essex. She was 86 years old. A 1928 graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Bowles was the widow of Chester B. Bowles, who served as Ambassador to India and 
Gisele Blankstein Birnbaum, an immigration lawyer for the International Rescue Committee in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Doctor's Hospital. She was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gisele Blankstein Birnbaum, an immigration lawyer for the International Resc
