 Jeanne-Marie Darre, a French pianist whose interpretations of Chopin and Liszt solo works and the Saint-Saens Concertos were admired for their sophistication and interpretive inventiveness, died on Jan. 26 in Port Marly, France, where she lived. She was 93. Miss Darre was an elegant
 Mirra Komarovsky, a sociologist who was an innovative authority on gender, family and education, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 93. Professor Komarovsky retired in 1970 after 32 years on the faculty of Barnard College. But she returned to B
 Joann Grillo, a mezzo-soprano who sang in nearly 300 performances with the Metropolitan Opera over a career of some 20 years, died on Monday at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 59 and lived in Brooklyn. She had been recuperating from recent surgery when she suffered a 
 Marion Boyars, an independent publisher whose eclectic and internationally minded list of authors included at least four Nobel Prize winners, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said. In an industry increasingly popul
 Lili St. Cyr, the tall, blond beauty who left almost nothing to the imagination when she stepped dripping wet out of her signature onstage bubble bath, died on Jan. 29 at her apartment in Hollywood. She was 80. In a field that began when a Syrian beauty who called herself Little Egy
 Indrani, a distinguished dancer who familiarized Americans with several styles of India's classical dance as a performer and teacher, died on Friday in Beekman Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, her daughter, Sukanya Wicks, sai
 Iris Murdoch, a prodigiously inventive and idiosyncratic British writer whose 26 novels offered lively plots, complex characters and intellectual speculation, died yesterday at a nursing home in Oxford, England. She was 79 and had Alzheimer's disease. Her struggle with Alzheimer's w
 Pearl Bernstein Max, who played a central role in melding the New York City municipal colleges into today's City University of New York, died Thursday in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 94. In 1938, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed Mrs. Max -- known as Pe
 Midi Garth, a modern-dance choreographer and performer known for her individuality, died on Jan. 28 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. She was 83. Ms. Garth came to prominence in the mid-1950's with dances notable for a spareness and precision of gesture unusual in a time
 Dorothea Zack Hanle, a longtime editor at Bon Appetit, a cookbook writer and one of the founders of Les Dames d'Escoffier, an international women's organization that promotes fine dining and wine, died Tuesday at the home of her son, Alan, in North Brunswick, N.J. She was 83 and lived in Ma
 Dr. Jan Hawkins, a pioneer in the use of computers and other technology in education, died Feb. 9 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 47 and lived in Cambridge, Mass., and on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Before joinin
 Gertrude B. Elion, a pioneer in drug research who shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1988, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where she lived. She was 81. Ms. Elion developed drugs for use in a vast array of conditions. They included drugs for herpes, leukemia, mala
 Bessie Cohen, who as a 19-year-old seamstress escaped the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in which 146 of her co-workers perished in 1911, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. She was 107 and was one of the last two known survivors of the Manhattan fire, according to the Union of Needletrades, Industria
 Sarah Kane, a provocative playwright whose bleak view of the limitations of human relationships and graphic dramatizations of violence and sex earned her a reputation as an enfant terrible of the British theater, died on Saturday at King's College Hospital here. She was 28. She was 
 Virginia Foster Durr, a well-born civil rights campaigner who was on hand when Rosa Parks was bailed out of jail where she was being held for not giving up her seat on a bus to a white man in 1955, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Carlisle, Pa. She was 95. Mrs. Durr and her hu
 Molly Harrower, a clinical psychologist who devised a Rorschach test for use in group therapy, died Feb. 20 at her home in Gainesville, Fla. She was 93. Dr. Harrower developed her own set of inkblot cards to administer to groups of Canadian military recruits in World War II. Known a
 Shirley Stoler, an actress best known for her role as the Nazi commandant in Lina Wertmuller's 1976 film ''Seven Beauties,'' died on Feb. 17 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. She was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure after a long illness,
