 Betty Lou Haydnet Ourisman, a former board member of the Arena Stage and Ford's Theater in Washington, who was long active in philanthrophic and cultural organizations in the capital area, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. She was 66 years old and lived in Chev
 Harriet Mandelbaum, who spent decades of her life working in behalf of autistic and other mentally impaired children, died on Thursday at Caledonian Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 79 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Her family said a cerebral hemorrhage caused her death. She 
 Han Schroeder, an architect, interior designer and educator, died on March 20 in the Boerhaave Clinic in Amsterdam. She was 73 years old and lived in Richmond. She died after a short illness, said Janet De Cecilia, the coordinator of the interior design program at the New York Insti
 Musa McKim Guston, a poet and painter who was the widow of the Abstract Expressionist artist Philip Guston, died on Monday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Woodstock, N.Y. She died of congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Musa Mayer of 
 Florence Tenzer, a benefactor of educational institutions, died Wednesday at St. John's Episcopal Hospital in Far Rockaway, Queens. She was 86 years old and had lived in Lawrence, L.I., since 1947. The cause of death was cancer, according to a statement from Yeshiva University.     
 Phyllis Q. Blundell, a British sculptor and ceramist, died on March 24 at the A. O. Fox Hospital Nursing Home in Oneonta, N.Y. She was 102 years old and had lived at the nursing home for six years. She died of congestive heart failure, said Jeanine Peterson, a friend. Miss B
 Melissa Stutsman Topping, an executive of the Henry Luce Foundation, died on Friday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 49 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. She died of complications from cancer, a family spokeswoman said. Mrs. Toppi
 Rixi Markus, the first woman to be named a grandmaster of bridge, died on Saturday in London. She was 81 years old. Mrs. Markus had suffered a heart attack. She was a winner of many national, international and world bridge titles and an organizer of matches, the editor of a 
 Thelma Saks Bradford Ingersoll, an artist and the widow of the editor and publisher Ralph A. Ingersoll, died on Saturday at her home in West Cornwall, Conn. She was 81 years old and died of kidney failure, a family spokesman said. Mrs. Ingersoll, who was born in Manhattan, taught cr
 Molly Picon, the comedic actress and singer who lightened and brightened the often dolorous themes of Yiddish theater with shows that were sprightly operettas, died yesterday in Lancaster, Pa. She was 94 years old. She died in her sleep at the home of her sister, Helen Silverblatt, 
 Margaret T. Barker, an actress and director who was an original member of the Group Theater, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 83 years old and had homes in New York City and Fairfield, Conn. She died of lung cancer, her family said. Miss Barker was b
 Ruth Hammond, an actress whose career on Broadway spanned half a century, died in her sleep on Thursday, her 96th birthday, at the Actor's Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. Miss Hammond created the role of Cora in the 1939 hit play "Life With Father" and remained in the cast for the enti
 Eve Merriam, an award-winning poet, playwright and author of more than 50 books for adults and children, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, her family said. Ms. Merriam's work ranged from 
 Quaintance Eaton, a writer of books and articles on opera, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 90 years old. She died of complications of a stroke, said Bill Cunningham, a longtime friend. Miss Eaton was born in Kansas City, Mo.,and b
 Nika Hazelton, whose cookbooks have been a mainstay of serious cooks for nearly half a century, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of natural causes after a lingering illness, said her son, Dr. S. A. Standen, who lives in London.     
 Kang Keqing, a veteran of the Communists' Long March and one of the best-known women in China, died today in the capital. She was 80 years old. The official New China News Agency praised Ms. Kang as "an outstanding leader of the women's movement in China" and said she had died of an
 Louise Speers Croix, a chemist who worked on anesthetics, died on Monday at the King James Care Center in Chatham Township, N.J. She was 72 years old and lived in Summit, N.J. The cause of death was cancer, said a friend, Walter Mac Williams of Bernardsville. Dr. Croix was b
 Miriam Borgenicht Klein, the author of 17 suspense novels under the name of Miriam Borgenicht, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76 years old. She died of lymphoma, her family said. Mrs. Klein graduated from Barnard College in 1936 and worked for the Works P
 Edna Simon Levine, a psychologist who founded many programs to help deaf people, died on April 7 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of a heart ailment, a friend said. Dr. Levine devoted her career to the problems of peo
 Sara Chisholm Farrington, a writer and a pioneer in international big-game fishing, died Thursday at Southhampton Hospital on Long Island. She was 84 years old. She died of pneumonia after suffering a stroke, her family said. Brought up in Manhattan and Long Island, she went
 Stowe Whitman Hausner, a prominent authority on social work, died on Saturday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 69 years old. She died of cancer, her family said. Mrs. Hausner, a 1944 graduate of Hunter College, was a founding director of the social services division 
 Johnnie Lee Macfadden, an author and physical-fitness advocate, died April 6 at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. She died after a lengthy illness, her family said. A native of Fort Worth, Mrs. Macfadden had a first career as an interior designer. In 1948, she bec
 Louise Leonard Wright, who was active for many years in women's and foreign affairs, died on April 17 at Crosslands, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 95 years old and had previously lived in Charlottesville, Va., and, until 1956, in Chicago. Her family said she 
 Dr. Rosa Lee Nemir Audi, a pulmonary and pediatrics specialist who worked 60 years as a doctor, teacher and researcher, died on Monday at Tisch Hospital at New York University in Manhattan. She was 86 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Nemir, who used her maiden name professionall
 Joan Hickcox Garrett-Goodyear, an associate professor of English at Smith College, died last Thursday at her home in South Hadley, Mass. She was 50 years old. She committed suicide by asphyxiation, said her husband, Harold Garrett-Goodyear, a history professor at Mount Holyoke Colle
