 Bella S. Abzug, New Yorker, feminist, antiwar activist, politician and lawyer, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 77. She died of complications following heart surgery, said Harold Holzer, who was her spokesman when she served in Congress. S
 Baroness Lestor of Eccles, a crusading British politician who spoke out against apartheid in defiance of her Government's policies and who struck a blow on behalf of single mothers when she won the right to adopt two children on her own, died in a hospice in London on Friday. She was 66 and
 Maria Grandy, a ballet teacher and coach long associated with the Joffrey Ballet and the chairwoman of the Dance Notation Bureau, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 61 and lived in Brooklyn. She died of cancer, said her husband, Seymour Schorr.        
 Laila Twigg-Smith, an art collector and philanthropist, died on March 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 53 and had recently moved to Manhattan from Honolulu. The cause was liver failure, said Christopher English Walling, a friend. A trustee of the New Museum of
 Dr. Viola Wertheim Bernard, a prominent New York psychiatrist who found ways to help adopted and foster children feel at home in new surroundings, died on March 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 91 and also lived in Nyack, N.Y. Her prescription for easing t
 Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died yesterday in her sleep at her home in Nashville. She was 55. Ms. Wynette had a history of health problems. The cause of death  was believed to be a blood clot, said Evelyn Shriver, 
 Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died on Monday in her sleep at her home in Nashville. She was 55. She recorded more than 50 albums and sold more than 30 million recordings. Ms. Wynette, who had a history of health prob
 Wendy O. Williams, the leader of the 1980's punk band the Plasmatics, a group more famous for their destructive onstage antics than for their music, died on Monday at her home in Storrs, Conn., in what officials called a suicide. She was 48. The cause was a gunshot wound to the head
 Eleanor C. Lambertsen, a leader in American nursing education who introduced the concept of team nursing for better patient care, died on March 30 at Waverly Heights, a nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. She was 82 and a former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was 
 Diana Epstein, a onetime New York book editor whose prosaic need to replace some plastic (ugh!) buttons on a stylish new jacket led her down a rabbit hole of miniature wonder into an enchanted world awash in buttons, died on April 3 at Beth Israel Hospital North near her tiny town house on 
 Kasey Cisyk, an opera-trained singer who never made it to the Met but whose haunting coloratura soprano became one of the world's most listened-to voices, died on March 29 at her home in Manhattan. She was 44 and had been the singing voice of the long-running ''Have You Driven a Ford Lately
 Sister Jogues Egan, a former provincial superior and college administrator in the Order of the Sacred Heart of Mary and an associate dean at Empire State College who briefly went to jail for her antiwar convictions in 1971, died on Monday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. S
 Felicie Young Cormier and Marie-Louise Febronie Meilleur, who lived through more tumultuous history, saw more social and technological change and endured more late-life congratulations than any two people known to be alive, died within two days of each other this week, ending their rival re
 Rose Maddox, a singer who was a leading figure in the West Coast country music of the 1940's, died on Wednesday at the Linda Vista rest home in Ashland, Ore., said Jonny Whiteside, her biographer. She was 72 and died of kidney failure. Ms. Maddox, with her five brothers -- Henry, Cl
 Cardiac patients who were lucky enough to make it to Houston in the days Michael E. Debakey and Denton E. Cooley were pioneering open heart surgery at Methodist Hospital were doubly fortunate that the nurse in charge of the operating room was Fannie Lou Spelce, a well-grounded, no-nonsense 
 The Rev. Sandra Jishu Holmes, a Zen Buddhist priest, teacher and co-founder of the Greyston Mandala, an organization in Yonkers dedicated to helping the poor, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 57 and had moved last month to Santa Fe, N.M., from Yonkers. The 
 Linda Eastman McCartney, the wife of the former Beatle Paul McCartney and a photographer whose portraits of 1960's rock stars have become classics, died on Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif., where the McCartneys were vacationing. She was 56. The cause was breast cancer that spread to 
 Joanne Eve Lukomnik, a consultant and lifelong advocate of community health services who was also active in national professional and policy-making health groups, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 51. The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, her family said.
 Linda Schele, a onetime studio art teacher who made a fateful vacation visit to Mexico that turned her life upside down and helped revolutionize Mayan scholarship, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Austin, Tex. She was 55 and widely known for her pioneering work in decoding in
 Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 63 and lived in Brooklyn. Her son Drew said the ca
 Kathleen F. Connelly, a corporate crisis and public relations executive, died Sunday while vacationing in the Virgin Islands. She was 49. The cause was complications from breast cancer, according to a spokesman for the Dilenschneider Group, the public relations firm in which Ms. Con
 Jane Reid-Petty, director, playwright and founder of New Stage Theater in Jackson, Miss., died on Thursday in Jackson at the home of her daughter, Diane Petty Maddux. She was 70. The cause was cancer, The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson, Miss., reported. In 1965, Ms. Reid-Petty cr
 Anna Kaskas, a contralto who had an association with the Metropolitan Opera from 1936 to 1950, died on March 19 at her home in Wellsboro, Pa. She was 91. At the Met, Ms. Kaskas was valued as a dependable house contralto for smaller roles like Maddalena in ''Rigoletto,'' and the nurs
 Frances Clark, a leading exponent of piano teaching methods, died on April 17 at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. She was 93. In 1960, Ms. Clark and a colleague, Louise Goss, founded the New School for Music Study in Kingston, N.J., a research center devoted to the development 
 Dr. Rena Taub, a psychotherapist and specialist in art therapy in Manhattan and Valley Stream, Long Island, died on April 19 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Valley Stream. The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Leon Taub. Dr. Taub collabo
 Florence Skelly Altman, an innovator in opinion research, died on Tuesday at Scottsdale, Ariz., Memorial Hospital. She was 73 and lived in Scottsdale. The cause of death was complications of heart disease, her daughter, Alexandra Altman, said. Ms. Skelly, as she was known pr
 Helen Ward, who sang with the Benny Goodman band in the 1930's, died on April 21 at the Vencor Hospital in Arlington, Va. She was 82 and lived in Falls Church, Va. Ms. Ward's supple voice, her easygoing sense of swing and her alluring stage presence were essential to the Goodman ban
