 Lea Nikel, an abstract painter who was one of Israel's most esteemed artists, died on Sept. 10 at her home in Moshav Kidron, Israel. She was 86. The cause was cancer, her nephew Yehuda Bock said. Ms. Nikel devoted a career of more than 50 years to a form of expressionistic a
 Franzi Groszmann, who was believed to be among the last survivors of the parents who put their London-bound children on trains to escape Nazi persecution, in the famed Kindertransport, died on Sept. 20 in Manhattan. She was 100. Deborah Oppenheimer, producer of the 2000 movie ''Into
 Betty Leslie-Melville, who called herself ''a total giraffe junkie'' and proved it not only by helping save a giraffe breed from extinction, but also by living amid the animals in a home called Giraffe Manor, died on Sept. 23 at a hospice in Baltimore. She was 78. The cause was comp
 Sara Levi-Tanai, the choreographer and founding director of Inbal Dance Theater, whose pioneering mix of Yemenite Jewish traditions and contemporary dance long made it Israel's premier dance company, died on Monday in Ramat Gan, Israel. She was 94. Her death was announced by Chaim S
 The Rev. Mother Benedict Duss, who in the late 1940's helped found the first monastery for cloistered Benedictine nuns in the United States but stepped down as its abbess in 1995 amid a Vatican investigation into charges that it was being run in an authoritarian, cultlike manner, died Oct. 
 Vivian Malone Jones, who on a blisteringly hot June day in 1963 became one of two black students to enroll at the University of Alabama after first being barred at the door by the defiant governor, George C. Wallace, died yesterday in Atlanta. She was 63. The cause was a stroke, her
 Betty Lee Hunt, a longtime Broadway and nightclub publicist and producer, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her partner, Maria Pucci. Among the many shows Ms. Hunt publicized were the original Broadway productions of ''S
 Shirley Horn, a jazz singer and pianist who drew audiences close with a powerfully confidential, vibratoless delivery, died yesterday at a nursing home in Cheverly, Md. She was 71. Her death was announced by Regina Joskow, vice president of publicity at the Verve Music Group, Ms. Horn's lab
 Rosa Parks, a black seamstress whose refusal to relinquish her seat to a white man on a city bus in Montgomery, Ala., almost 50 years ago grew into a mythic event that helped touch off the civil rights movement of the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at her home in Detroit. She was 92 year
 Enid A. Haupt, whose philanthropy benefited libraries, museums and hospitals but who devoted much of her considerable fortune to creating public gardens and preserving horticultural institutions, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 99, and also kept a residence in Manhat
 Kathryn O. Scott, a pioneer in the meticulous art of textile conservation whose accomplishments included doing Napoleon's personal laundry, died on Oct. 15 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Her death was confirmed by Mary Ballard, the senior textile conservator at the Smithsonia
