Dr. Samuel Forsheit, a former high school principal in Brooklyn, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 73 years old. Dr. Samuel Forsheit, a former high school principal in Brooklyn, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 73 ye
Dick Young, the sports columnist for The New York Post, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. Dick Young, the sports columnist for The New York Post, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 
Harvey O'Connor, an author of scathing biographies on the Mellons, the Guggenheims and the Astors, died Saturday of heart failure after a long illness at his home in Little Compton, R.I. He was 90 years old. Mr. O'Connor was born in Minneapolis in 1897, the son of a railway cook. He w
Jean Schlumberger, one of the leading jewelry designers of the 20th century, died Saturday morning at his apartment in Paris. He was 80 years old. Jean Schlumberger, one of the leading jewelry designers of the 20th century, died Saturday morning at his apartment in Paris. He w
Dr. Robert F. Allen, a psychologist, teacher and author, died of a heart attack Aug. 22 at his home in San Miguel, Mexico. He was 58 years old and also lived in Morristown, N.J. Dr. Robert F. Allen, a psychologist, teacher and author, died of a heart attack Aug. 22 at his home
Wade H. McCree Jr., a former Solicitor General under President Carter and a former Federal judge, died Sunday night at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. He was 67 years old and lived in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he had been a professor at the University of Michigan Law School. Wad
Charles Harris Wesley, one of the nation's most eminent black scholars, died Aug. 16 at Howard University Hospital in Washington after a long illness with pneumonia. He was 95 years old. Charles Harris Wesley, one of the nation's most eminent black scholars, died Aug. 16 at Ho
Alec Campbell Jr., the founder and president of Prime TV Films Inc. of Manhattan, television film distributors, died of cancer at St. Vincent's Hospital on Aug. 24. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Alec Campbell Jr., the founder and president of Prime TV Films Inc. 
Arthur R. Murphy Jr., who was a vice president of Time Inc. and president of the McCall Corporation, died of a heart attack Saturday at Jupiter Hospital in Tequesta, Fla. He was 72 years old and lived in Tequesta. Arthur R. Murphy Jr., who was a vice president of Time Inc. and
Dr. Henry D. Fearon, a retired cardiologist and former chief of medicine at Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn, died of cancer Sunday at New Milford (Conn.) Hospital. A resident of Washington, Conn., he was 83 years old. Dr. Henry D. Fearon, a retired cardiologist and former chief
James Urban Brady, who for 35 years entertained millions of people as Chief Red Feather at the Knott's Berry Farm amusement park, has died of cancer. He was 85 years old. James Urban Brady, who for 35 years entertained millions of people as Chief Red Feather at the Knott's Ber
Ralph T. Tyner Jr., former chairman of the National Bank of Westchester, now a division of Chase Manhattan Bank, died Sunday at his summer home in Old Greenwich, Conn., after a long illness. He was 84 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla. Ralph T. Tyner Jr., former chairman 
Arnaldo Dante Momigliano, an Italian historian and internationally renowned professor of classics, who received a MacArthur Foundation fellowship last spring, died Tuesday at Central Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 78 years old. Arnaldo Dante Momigliano, an Italian histor
Jerome L. Reinstein, an acting State Supreme Court justice who was to preside over the trial of Larry Davis next week on charges of killing four Bronx drug dealers, died Monday after collapsing in the Bronx County Courthouse. He was 59 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of t
Lewis Turner, a retired manufacturing executive and former president of the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures, died of cancer Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. Lewis Turner, a retired manufacturing execut
Paul E. Reinhold, a dairy-business executive who was president of the Reinhold Corporation, died Monday at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 93 years old. Paul E. Reinhold, a dairy-business executive who was president of the Reinhold Corporation, died Monday at his home in
Charlie Smalls, whose music and lyrics for ''The Wiz'' won two Tony Awards in 1975, died of cardiac arrest during emergency surgery on Aug.. 27 in Bruges, Belgium. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan. Charlie Smalls, whose music and lyrics for ''The Wiz'' won two Tony A
George McMillan, a freelance writer for national magazines and newspapers, died Tuesday at his home on St. Helena Island, S.C., of complications of Lou Gehrig's Disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. He was 74 years old. George McMillan, a freelance writer for national magazi
George Mikes, a Hungarian-born writer who wrote gentle satires on the foibles of nations, typified by ''How to Be an Alien,'' has died at the age of 75, his family said today. George Mikes, a Hungarian-born writer who wrote gentle satires on the foibles of nations, typified by
Harry W. Baehr, the former chief editorial writer for The New York Herald Tribune, died of an apparent heart attack Wednesday in his apartment in Brooklyn Heights. He was 79 years old. Harry W. Baehr, the former chief editorial writer for The New York Herald Tribune, died of a
Morton Feldman, one of the century's most important experimental composers and a truer minimalist than many so labeled, died of pancreatic cancer early yesterday at Buffalo General Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived in Buffalo. Morton Feldman, one of the century's most im
William Borm, a former senior member of Parliament, died Wednesday. He was 92 years old. Mr. Borm, who was born in Hamburg, helped found the Liberal Democratic Party in West Berlin after World War II. He later joined the Free Democratic Party and became its treasurer. He was a member 
Gerard S. Dillemuth, the secretary-treasurer and chief financial officer of Weeks Marine Inc. of Cranford, N.J., a stevedoring company, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Mountainside, N.J. He was 54 years old. Gerard S. Dillemuth, the secretary-treasurer and chief 
Harold Baer, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, at his Manhattan apartment. He was 82 years old. Harold Baer, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, at his Manhattan
Viktor P. Nekrasov, who won the Stalin Prize for literature in 1947 but emigrated to the west in 1974 under attack for his liberal views, died Thursday near Paris. He was 76 years old. Viktor P. Nekrasov, who won the Stalin Prize for literature in 1947 but emigrated to the wes
Joaquin E. Bacardi, a retired president of the rum company founded by his grandfather, died Tuesday at his home in Nassau, the Bahamas, after suffering from heart problems. He was 85 years old. Joaquin E. Bacardi, a retired president of the rum company founded by his grandfath
Richard Marquand, a British director who captivated American movie-goers with ''Return of the Jedi'' and ''Jagged Edge,'' died Friday at a hospital near London. He was 49 years old. Richard Marquand, a British director who captivated American movie-goers with ''Return of the J
Carter W. Clarke, a retired brigadier general who headed a War Department investigation of the military intelligence role in the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Clearwater, Fla. He was 90 years old. Carter W. Clarke, a retired br
Dr. Murray M. Lipton, a retired University of Louisville microbiologist who conducted research on the polio virus, died of Parkinson's disease Aug. 29 at the Northfield Manor nursing home in Louisville, Ky., where he was a resident. He was 68 years old. Dr. Lipton is survived by a dau
Dr. Rudolph Eric Fremont, medical director of the New York City Department of Personnel, died Friday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y., of injuries he suffered in an auto accident near his summer home in Somers, N.Y. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.     
Quinn Martin, one of Hollywood's most successful producers of action-adventure series for television, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 65 years old. Quinn Martin, one of Hollywood's most successful producers of action-adventure seri
Edward W. Whittemore, the former chairman and chief executive officer of American Brands Inc., died Saturday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Stamford. Edward W. Whittemore, the former chairman and chief executive officer of American Brands Inc., 
Richard Goldstein, vice president of marketing for CBS Sports, died as the result of a car accident Sunday in New Hope, Pa. He was 48 years old and lived in New Hope. Richard Goldstein, vice president of marketing for CBS Sports, died as the result of a car accident Sunday in 
Enrique de la Mata, president of the League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, has died, the Red Cross said Monday. He was 53 years old. The former Spanish diplomat died in Rome on Sunday, apparently from a heart attack, a Red Cross spokesman, George Reid, said. Enrique 
Henderson G. Riggs, a lawyer and former assistant attorney general for New York State, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Albany. He was 64 years old. Henderson G. Riggs, a lawyer and former assistant attorney general for New York State, died of a heart attack Satu
Herbert Tobias, a screen agent who represented top stars during a career that spanned nearly 50 years, died Sunday. He was 69 years old. Herbert Tobias, a screen agent who represented top stars during a career that spanned nearly 50 years, died Sunday. He was 69 years old.    
John Denis Pollis, an authority on art preservation, died of cancer Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan and Cephalonia, Greece. John Denis Pollis, an authority on art preservation, died of cancer Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kett
Henry Cushman Breck, an investment banker who aided in United States peace efforts after World War I, died Monday at his home in Barbados, where he had lived in retirement for several years. He was 94 years old. Henry Cushman Breck, an investment banker who aided in United Sta
Herbert J. Bloch, one of the world's leading experts on stamp collecting, died of a heart attack Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, he was 79 years old. Herbert J. Bloch, one of the world's leading experts on stamp collecting, died of a heart attack Monday
Irve Tunick, a longtime scriptwriter and former president of the Eastern Region of the Television Writers of America, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Saturday at Putnam Hospital Center in Carmel, N.Y. He was 75 years old and a resident of Somers, N.Y. Irve Tunick, a longtime scr
Julian H. Salomon, a landscape architect who specialized in the planning of camps, parks and recreational areas, died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 91 years old and lived in Upper Saddle River, N.J. Julian H. Salomon, a landscape architect who spec
Loren R. Kirkwood, a former division vice president for RCA Consumer Electronics and a key figure in the development of color television, died Saturday. He was 77 years old. Loren R. Kirkwood, a former division vice president for RCA Consumer Electronics and a key figure in th
Merrill A. Watson, president of the National Footwear Manufacturers Association from 1946 to 1969, died of lung cancer Sept. 2 at J.F.K. Hospital in Atlantis, Fla. He was 83 years old and lived in Lake Worth, Fla., and Bay Head, N.J. Merrill A. Watson, president of the Nationa
Paul J. Jennings, former president of the International Union of Electronic Workers, died Monday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I., after a long illness. He was 69 years old. Paul J. Jennings, former president of the International Union of Electronic Workers, died Monday at 
Robert C. Johnson, a former president of the Dollar Savings Bank, died of cancer Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He lived in Manhattan and Vale do Lobo, Portugal. Robert C. Johnson, a former president of the Dollar Savings Bank, died of cancer Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. H
The Rev. Teofil Bogucki, the outspoken mentor of the Rev. Jerzy Popieluszko, who was killed by security policemen, has died after a stroke, the Warsaw Metropolitan Curia said today. He was 79 years old. The Rev. Teofil Bogucki, the outspoken mentor of the Rev. Jerzy Popieluszk
Alfred Rathheim, a retired Manhattan lawyer, died Sunday while vacationing in Montecatini, Italy. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. Alfred Rathheim, a retired Manhattan lawyer, died Sunday while vacationing in Montecatini, Italy. He was 90 years old and lived in Manh
Bennett Rose, a real-estate developer and a veteran of the Jewish Legion in Palestine during World War I, died of cancer Tuesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bennett Rose, a real-estate developer and a veteran of the Jewis
Eugene A. Fern, a writer and illustrator of children's books, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in East Hardwick, Vt. He was 67 years old. Eugene A. Fern, a writer and illustrator of children's books, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home 
Pat Bashford, once the leader of Rhodesia's multiracial Center Party and a longtime opponent of Ian D. Smith, died here on Wednesday, friends said. He was 72 years old. Pat Bashford, once the leader of Rhodesia's multiracial Center Party and a longtime opponent of Ian D. Smith
Peter Fingesten, a Surrealist artist who founded the art department at Pace University in New York City, died of pancreatic cancer Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Peter Fingesten, a Surrealist artist who founded the art department
Albert A. List, an industrialist and philanthropist who began his career working in his family grocery store and ended it a multimillionaire, died yesterday of heart failure at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Byram, Conn. Albert A. List, an in
Brian F. Newton, who retired last year as manager of the sulfur division of Exxon Chemicals, died of cancer of the gall bladder Monday at his home in Quechee, Vt. He was 61 years old. Brian F. Newton, who retired last year as manager of the sulfur division of Exxon Chemicals, 
Dr. Louis M. D'Esopo, a Tarrytown, N.Y., physician who practiced internal medicine and cardiology for more than 50 years, died Sunday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn., after suffering a cardiac problem. A resident of Tarrytown, he was 86 years old. Dr. Louis
Dr. Maurice B. Gordon, a psychiatrist who practiced in Manhattan since 1953, died of a cerebral hemorrhage July 31 while vacationing in Brunswick, Me. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Maurice B. Gordon, a psychiatrist who practiced in Manhattan since 1953, died 
Edward H. Rogers, an insurance and banking executive of Westhampton Beach, L.I., died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in the village of Westhampton Beach. He was 68 years old. Edward H. Rogers, an insurance and banking executive of Westhampton Beach, L.I., died of lung ca
Gene M. Marshall, one of the marines who helped raise the first American flag on Iwo Jima in World War II, died Tuesday night of burns he suffered in a fire at his home three weeks ago. He was 60 years old. Gene M. Marshall, one of the marines who helped raise the first Americ
The Rev. John Skvir, rector of Saints Peter and Paul Russian Orthodox Church of Jersey City for the last 35 years, died at his home in Jersey City Wednesday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 65 years old. The Rev. John Skvir, rector of Saints Peter and Paul Russian Orthodo
Robert L. Copsey, a former manager of Newark Airport and former director of aviation for New Jersey, died of emphysema Aug. 30 at the Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs. A resident of Colorado Springs, he was 91 years old. Robert L. Copsey, a former manager of Newark Airport
Andrew Stewart, former president of Denhard & Stewart Inc., a book advertising agency in Manhattan, died Wednesday at his Manhattan apartment. Mr. Stewart, who had been suffering from lung cancer, was 79 years old. Andrew Stewart, former president of Denhard & Stewart Inc., a 
Eugene H. Kone, for many years public relations director of the American Institute of Physics and public information officer of Rockefeller University, died Monday at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. He is survived by his wife, Estelle; two children, and four grandchildren.       
John Lenehan, a pianist who performed in New York nightclubs, died of complications brought on by AIDS Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 36 years old and lived in Manhattan. John Lenehan, a pianist who performed in New York nightclubs, died of complications brought on b
Thomas Bassett Hubbard, chairman and chief executive of the Thinc. Consulting Group International, an executive placement concern, died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a brief illness on Sept. 5. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Thomas Bassett Hubbar
Frank K. Sanders Jr., a retired executive of Ziegler Enterprises, died as the result of a stroke Tuesday in the Community Hospital at Glen Cove, L.I. He was 91 years old and lived in Glen Cove. Frank K. Sanders Jr., a retired executive of Ziegler Enterprises, died as the resul
Gen. J. Lawton Collins, a combat leader in World War IIa former Army Chief of Staff, died Saturday at his home of cardiac arrest. He was 91 years old. Gen. J. Lawton Collins, a combat leader in World War IIa former Army Chief of Staff, died Saturday at his home of cardiac arre
Josiah Willard, a retired partner in the law firm of White & Case, died after a long illness last Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old. Josiah Willard, a retired partner in the law firm of White & Case, died after a long illness last Thursday at his home in M
John W. Humes, a professor in the graduate division of management, Baruch College, the City University of New York, died of cancer of the colon Tuesday at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 51 years old and lived in Little Silver, N.J. John W. Humes, a professor in th
Mervyn LeRoy, the versatile movie director of such explosive dramas as ''Little Caesar'' and ''I Am a Fugitive From a Chain Gang'' and such lush romances as ''Waterloo Bridge'' and ''Random Harvest,'' died early yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 86 years old and ha
Philip I. Bowman, a retired executive vice president of the Bristol-Myers Company and chairman of Bristol Laboratories, died of bone cancer on Friday at his home in Syracuse. He was 78 years old and also had a home in Stuart, Fla. Philip I. Bowman, a retired executive vice pre
Anibal Gordon, who headed a far-right group involved in kidnapping, extortion and murder during the military dictatorship, died of a heart attack Sunday night. He was 55 years old and was operated on last week for cancer of the left lung. Anibal Gordon, who headed a far-right 
David Fromson, a lawyer who lectured at Pace University, Georgetown Law School and Southern Methodist University, died Friday at St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 57 years old and lived in Palm Beach and Oakland, Me. David Fromson, a lawyer who lectured at Pace Un
Graham Loving, a commodities investor and former investment banker, died of bone marrow cancer Sunday at his daughter's home in New York City. He was 62 years old and lived in Miami and Palm Beach, Fla. Graham Loving, a commodities investor and former investment banker, died o
Jerome M. Lane, a deputy attorney general of New Jersey from 1969 to 1978, died of complications from surgery Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 55 years old and lived in Fair Lawn, N.J. Jerome M. Lane, a deputy attorney general of New Jersey from 1969 to 1978
James P. Mills, a philanthropist and owner of thoroughbred race horses, died Sunday night at Winchester Hospital in Winchester, Va. He was 78 years old. James P. Mills, a philanthropist and owner of thoroughbred race horses, died Sunday night at Winchester Hospital in Winchest
Bernard J. Hughes, an architect and artist, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old. Bernard J. Hughes, an architect and artist, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old. Mr. Hughes had his own prac
Harold J. Reilly, a physical therapist, died in his sleep Sunday at his home in Oak Ridge, N.J. He was 92 years old. Harold J. Reilly, a physical therapist, died in his sleep Sunday at his home in Oak Ridge, N.J. He was 92 years old. Mr. Reilly, who was born in Manhatt
Lord Soames, who as Britain's last colonial Governor in Rhodesia presided over its transition to majority rule as Zimbabwe, died today at his family home in Hampshire. He was 66 years old. Lord Soames, a son-in-law of Sir Winston Churchill, had suffered a series of heart ailments and 
Erik Lundberg, one of Sweden's leading economists and an adviser to several foreign governments, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Erik Lundberg, one of Sweden's leading economists and an adviser to several foreign governments, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Mr. L
Henry A. Courtlandt, senior vice president of the New York Urban Coalition, died of cancer Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. Henry A. Courtlandt, senior vice president of the New York Urban Coalition, died of cancer Saturday 
Howard Moss, a poet who for almost 40 years was the poetry editor of The New Yorker, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. Mr. Moss was 65 years old. Howard Moss, a poet who for almost 40 years was the poetry editor of The N
Dr. Thaddeus S. Danowski, a professor of research medicine at the University of Pittsburgh and an author of medical textbooks, died of a heart attack Saturday at Judson Memorial Hospital in Miami, Fla., where he had gone for an operation. He was 73 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.  
Emery L. Van Horn, the first manager of the Atomic Energy Commission's office at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Severna Park, Md. He was 80 years old. Emery L. Van Horn, the first manager of the Atomic Energy Commissio
Harry G. Newman, a former vice president of Helmsley-Spear Inc., the real-estate concern, died of cancer Tuesday in St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. He was 94 years old and lived in White Plains Mr. Newman was a partner in Ames, Cunehand & Newman, the real-estate brokers, until the
John H. G. Munson, an investment adviser with A. R. Schmeidler & Company, died of complications from cancer Sept. 10 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan and Mattapoisett, Mass. John H. G. Munson, an investment adviser with A. R
Joseph T. Weingold, a leader in providing humane conditions and community care for retarded and disabled children in New York, died of heart failure Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph T. Weingold, a leader in pro
Leon Hirszman, one of Brazil's best-known film directors, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome Tuesday at the age of 49. Leon Hirszman, one of Brazil's best-known film directors, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome Tuesday at the age of 49. Mr. Hirszman'
T. Michael Reed, a dancer in such Broadway musicals as ''Seesaw'' and ''The Magic Show,'' died of complications from acquired immune deficiency syndrome Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42 years old. T. Michael Reed, a dancer in such Broadway musicals as ''Seesaw'' a
Andrew G. Donaldson, a former school superintendent of District 9 in the Bronx, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old. Mr. Donaldson, who entered the school system as a teacher shortly after graduating from the City College of New York in 1950, 
Adm. Americo de Deus Rodrigues Thomaz, who was hand-picked as President by the dictator Antonio Salazar and ousted in a leftist military coup in 1974, died early today. He was 92 years old. Adm. Americo de Deus Rodrigues Thomaz, who was hand-picked as President by the dictator
Daniel J. Tobin, a retired vice president of Douglas Elliman Gibbons & Ives, a real-estate firm, died Wednesday at Franklin General Hospital in Franklin Square, L.I. He was 63 years old and lived in New York City. Daniel J. Tobin, a retired vice president of Douglas Elliman Gi
Dr. William J. Moore, a former state police surgeon in New Jersey, died of cancer Thursday at the Graduate Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. A lifelong resident of Trenton, he was 67 years old. Dr. William J. Moore, a former state police surgeon in New Jersey, died o
Dr. Donald D. Ritchie, a former chairman of the biological sciences department at Barnard College and an expert on marine fungi, died of pancreatic cancer Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. Dr. Donald D. Ritchie, a former chairman of the 
Edward Elijah White Jr., a former chief of public relations for the New York Public Library, died of brain cancer Sunday in Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 60 years old and lived in Palm Beach. Edward Elijah White Jr., a former chief of public relations
Emil Schram, the president of the New York Stock Exchange from 1941 to 1951, died yesterday at his home in Peru, Ind. He was 93 years old. Emil Schram, the president of the New York Stock Exchange from 1941 to 1951, died yesterday at his home in Peru, Ind. He was 93 years old.
Francis E. Dorn, a Congressman in the 1950's and the first Republican from Brooklyn to be elected to the House of Representatives in 32 years, died of cancer Thursday in Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. Franci
Frederic B. Fitch, the Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Yale University, died at home today. He was 79 years old. Frederic B. Fitch, the Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Yale University, died at home today. He was 79 years old. Surviving are his
Einar Gerhardsen, a former Prime Minister of Norway who played a key role in the establishment of his nation's welfare state and its strong, pro-Western foreign policy in the decades after World War II, died Saturday at the age of 90, the Norwegian National News agency said. E
G. Edward Pendray, a proponent of the peaceful uses of rocket power and space flight since the 1930's, died of complications from Parkinson's disease Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Jamesburg, N.J. G. Edward Pendray, a proponent of the peaceful uses of rocket power a
Dr. George R. Meneely, a founder of the Louisiana State University Medical Center, died Sept. 6 at his home in Shreveport, La. He was 75 years old. Dr. George R. Meneely, a founder of the Louisiana State University Medical Center, died Sept. 6 at his home in Shreveport, La. He
Gen. Golbery do Couto e Silva, the political strategist behind Brazil's 1964-1985 military Government, died Friday. He was 76 years old. Gen. Golbery do Couto e Silva, the political strategist behind Brazil's 1964-1985 military Government, died Friday. He was 76 years old.    
Charles W. Nichols Jr., a retired engineering executive and prominent philanthropist, died at his home yesterday after a long illness. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Charles W. Nichols Jr., a retired engineering executive and prominent philanthropist, died at his 
Lindesay Parrott, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times who covered the Pacific theater in World War II and later the Korean War and served as Tokyo bureau chief for 10 years, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86 years old. Lindesay 
Michael Stewart, who won Tony Awards as the author of the Broadway musical hits ''Bye Bye Birdie'' in 1961 and ''Hello, Dolly!'' in 1964, died of pneumonia early yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. Michael Stewart, who won Tony 
Irving Lang, a senior judge of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irving Lang, a senior judge of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Saturday at St. Vince
Barry Laine, a writer, editor and producer, died of AIDS-related pneumonia on Saturday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 36 years old.  Mr. Laine was senior editor of Stagebill magazine and contributing editor to the Manhattan-based Dancemagazine. He wrote on dance and music for The New
Charles J. Mascioli, a builder and developer on Long Island, died of cancer of the lymph glands Sept. 19 at his home in Great Neck, L.I.. He was 58 years old. Charles J. Mascioli, a builder and developer on Long Island, died of cancer of the lymph glands Sept. 19 at his home i
Dr. Edwin Ziegfeld, who taught fine arts at Teachers College of Columbia University for more than 30 years, died Sept. 12 at his home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82 years old. Dr. Edwin Ziegfeld, who taught fine arts at Teachers College of Columbia University for more than 30 
Henry Kendrick Gard, who founded CompuServe, a Columbus-based computer services company, died Friday. He was 72 years old. Mr. Gard left the company two years ago. CompuServe, which Mr. Gard founded in 1969, employs 900 people and is a major national provider of computer, communicatio
Joseph Lumsden, chairman of the Sault Ste. Marie tribe of Chippewa Indians and a key figure in a landmark settlement of disputed Indian fishing rights, died in War Memorial Hospital here Sunday after a long illness, a tribal spokesman said, He was 52 years old. Joseph Lumsden,
Malcolm J. Hood Sr., a senior vice president of the United States Trust Company of New York, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Warren, N.J. He was 55 years old. Malcolm J. Hood Sr., a senior vice president of the United States Trust Company of New York, died of a he
Michael P. Metcalf, chairman and chief executive officer of the Providence Journal Company and publisher of The Providence Journal and Evening Bulletin, died Sunday from head injuries suffered a week earlier in a bicycle accident. He was 54 years old. Michael P. Metcalf, chair
Sam Brody, a founder of the Depression-era Workers Film and Photo League who was known for his production of films about social justice, died of head injuries from a fall Sept. 9 at his home in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 80 years old. Sam Brody, a founder of the Depression-era
Sven Andersson, a former Swedish Defense Minister and Foreign Minister who was a dominant force in politics after World War II, died today. He was 77. Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson announced Mr. Andersson's death at the congress of the Social Democratic Party, and said Mr. Andersson 
W. Mason Smith, a counsel and former partner of the Manhattan law firm of Barrett Smith Schapiro Simon & Armstrong, died of complications from Parkinson's disease Sunday at his Manhattan home. He was 76 years old. W. Mason Smith, a counsel and former partner of the Manhattan l
Dan Rowan, co-host and co-producer of ''Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In,'' the nation's most popular television variety series in the late 1960's, died of lymphatic cancer yesterday at his home in Englewood, Fla. He was 65 years old. Dan Rowan, co-host and co-producer of ''Rowan a
Ellis Khouri, a top official of the Orthodox Antiochian Church, died Saturday. He was 87 years old. Ellis Khouri, a top official of the Orthodox Antiochian Church, died Saturday. He was 87 years old. Mr. Khouri was second in command of the New York-based denomination, 
John Francis (Jaco) Pastorius, an electric bassist whose brief career influenced jazz musicians worldwide, died Monday night at the Broward General Medical Center. He was 35 years old. John Francis (Jaco) Pastorius, an electric bassist whose brief career influenced jazz musici
Randolph P. Compton, a retired investment banker and philanthropist, died Sept. 15 at White Plains Hospital. He was 95 years old and lived in Scarsdale. Randolph P. Compton, a retired investment banker and philanthropist, died Sept. 15 at White Plains Hospital. He was 95 years
Robert Louis Fosse was born in Chicago on June 23, 1927, the son of a vaudeville entertainer. He began performing on the vaudeville circuit as a child, and by the age of 13 he was a seasoned veteran of many burlesque shows. Robert Louis Fosse was born in Chicago on June 23, 19
The director and choreographer Bob Fosse died of a heart attack tonight as a revival of his musical ''Sweet Charity'' was opening at the National Theater. He was 60 years old.  He collapsed in his room at the Willard Hotel about 7 P.M. as the show was beginning nearby. He was taken to
Dr. David W. Mullins, president of the University of Arkansas for 14 years, died Tuesday at the age of 81. Dr. David W. Mullins, president of the University of Arkansas for 14 years, died Tuesday at the age of 81. Dr. Mullins, who began his education career in the Depr
Herbert G. Ahrend, president of Ahrend Associates, a direct-marketing advertising agency he founded 50 years ago, died of cancer last Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Herbert G. Ahrend, president of Ahrend Associates,
H. R. Gross, a United States Representative from Iowa for 26 years, died Tuesday night in the Veteran's Adminstration Hospital in Washington, D.C., of complications from Alzheimer's disease. He was 88 years old. H. R. Gross, a United States Representative from Iowa for 26 year
Leo Polk, the most prolific blood donor on record in the United States, died Tuesday of cancer. He was 79. Leo Polk, the most prolific blood donor on record in the United States, died Tuesday of cancer. He was 79. Mr. Polk, who kept detailed records of his many trips t
Norman Luboff, a composer and arranger of popular choral pieces and best known as director of the Norman Luboff Choir, died of lung cancer Tuesday at his home in Bynum, N.C. He was 70 years old. Norman Luboff, a composer and arranger of popular choral pieces and best known as 
Robert E. McElfresh, a former vice president of investment research at Goldman Sachs & Company, died Tuesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 67 years old and lived in Sun Valley, Idaho. Robert E. McElfresh, a former vice president of investment research a
Clifford O. Taylor, a composer and chairman of the department of music composition at Temple University for 23 years, died Saturday night at Abington (Pa.) Memorial Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Jenkintown, a suburb of Philadelphia. Clifford O. Taylor, a composer 
Edward L. Brady, a former associate director for international affairs of the National Bureau of Standards, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 68 years old. Edward L. Brady, a former associate director for international affairs of the National Bureau 
Emil H. Rice, former chief mechanical engineer of the North Atlantic division of the Army Corps of Engineers, died Wednesday at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 75 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Emil H. Rice, former chief mechanical engine
Gerald Chapman, the founder, first artistic director and for the past three years education director of the Young Playwrights Festival in New York City, died Wednesday night at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 37 years old. Gerald Chapman, the founder, first artistic director and 
Herbert Wool, a food distributor and philanthropist, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old. Herbert Wool, a food distributor and philanthropist, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old. Mr. Wool worked in the 
Drew (Bundini) Brown, who worked as a cornerman and assistant trainer for Muhammad Ali throughout the former heavyweight champion's career, died Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. Hospital officials declined to give the cause of death. Mr. Brown, who was 57 years old,
Hugh D. (Duffy) Daugherty, who guided Michigan State University's football program to national prominence and two Big Ten titles in 19 years with the school, died early today in California. He was 72 years old. Hugh D. (Duffy) Daugherty, who guided Michigan State University's 
Emlyn Williams, the Welsh actor, playwright and director who wrote many hit plays, including ''Night Must Fall'' and ''The Corn Is Green,'' both of which he starred in, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 81 years old. Emlyn Williams, the Welsh actor, playwright and d
Merrill P. Jackson, an official in the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. Merrill P. Jackson, an official in the Federal Department of Health and Human Ser
Ned E. Jaffa, a noted chemical engineer, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Linden, N.J. He was 86 years old. Ned E. Jaffa, a noted chemical engineer, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Linden, N.J. He was 86 years old. For 35 years, Mr. Jaffa was
A memorial service for the composer and teacher Vincent Persichetti will be held on Oct. 5 at 5 P.M. at the Juilliard Theater, Lincoln Center. Mr. Persichetti, who was on the faculty at the school, died Aug. 15 at the age of 72. Three works by Mr. Persichetti will be played at the ser
Richard C. Miles, a former director of McKinsey & Company Management Consultants, died of leukemia Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 72 years old and lived in Ridgefield, Conn. Richard C. Miles, a former director of McKinsey & Company Management Consul
Abba Kovner, a leading Israeli poet and founder of the Brichah movement, which involved the transit of almost 300,000 Jews from Eastern and Central Europe to Palestine after World War II, died of cancer of the larynx Friday at his home at the Ein Hahoresh kibbutz in Israel. He was 69 
Gerald Adler, a State Supreme Court Justice in Brooklyn, died of a heart attack Thursday at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 69 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Gerald Adler, a State Supreme Court Justice in Brooklyn, died of a heart attack Thursday at Maimonides Hospit
Joseph J. Savago Jr., the executive editor of the Book of the Month Club, died of complications arising from pneumonia yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old. Joseph J. Savago Jr., the executive editor of the Book of the Month Club, died of complications arisi
Kermit Morrissey, a professor at the University of Massachusetts and a former president of Boston State College, died Saturday. He was 68 years old. Kermit Morrissey, a professor at the University of Massachusetts and a former president of Boston State College, died Saturday. 
Dwight T. Myers, a onetime deputy commissioner and chief engineer for what was formerly the New York City Department of Traffic, died Sept. 9 at the Nyack Manor Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 84 years old and previously lived in Manhattan. Dwight T. Myers, a oneti
Edward B. D. Neuhauser, a former chief of radiology at the Children's Hospital Medical Center here, died in his sleep Sunday morning. He was 79 years old. Edward B. D. Neuhauser, a former chief of radiology at the Children's Hospital Medical Center here, died in his sleep Sund
Gregory J. Oberst Sr., former vice president of the Amerace Esna Corporation, died of a heart attack Sept. 6 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Summit. Gregory J. Oberst Sr., former vice president of the Amerace Esna Corporation, died of a he
Harry Holtzman, an abstract painter, teacher and authority on the work of the Dutch artist Piet Mondrian, died of pancreatic cancer Friday at his home in Lyme, Conn. He was 75 years old, and was co-editor of ''The New Art - The New Life,'' a book of Mondrian's collected writings publi
Ray J. Madden, a Democratic Congressman from Indiana who served for 34 years before being defeated for renomination in 1976, died yesterday in a hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 95 years old. Mr. Madden, who represented the heavily industrial Gary-Hammond area on the sou
Dr. Robert B. Greenblatt, a retired professor at the Medical College of Georgia and an internationally known endocrinologist who did early work in oral contraception, died Sunday at his residence. He was 80 years old. Dr. Robert B. Greenblatt, a retired professor at the Medica
Ernest Fleischman, a lawyer who specialized in labor and immigration cases, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 76 years old. Ernest Fleischman, a lawyer who specialized in labor and immigration cases, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in S
H. Bourke Weigel, a New York architect for nearly half a century, who served as coordinator on the design of the United Nations headquarters, died of liver cancer Sunday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 75 years old and lived in Scarborough-on-Hudson, N.Y.        
Henry Ford 2d, who took over the ailing auto company founded by his grandfather and restored it as one of the world's industrial giants, died yesterday in Detroit of complications arising from pneumonia. He was 70 years old. Henry Ford 2d, who took over the ailing auto company
Matthew E. Dann, former headmaster of the Trinity School in Manhattan and the Trinity-Pawling School in Pawling, N.Y., died Aug. 4 at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital of injuries from an automobile accident. He was 84 years old and lived in Pawling. Matthew E. Dann, former headmaster 
