 Bjorn Kjellstrom, who founded the company that makes the most popular compass in the world and later introduced the sport of orienteering to North America, died Saturday in a hospital in Stockholm. He was 84 years old. His family said he died of complications of Parkinson's disease.
 Hajime Mitarai, the president of Canon Inc.who helped turn the electronics manufacturer into one of the world's most innovative companies, died early this morning in a Tokyo hospital. He was 56. A company spokesman said Mr.  Mitarai, a resident of Tokyo, died from pneumonia after ha
 Michael Ende, the German author whose children's book "The Neverending Story" became an international best seller and was made into a film, died on Monday at a clinic near Stuttgart. He was 65. The cause was stomach cancer, his publisher said. Like no other modern German wri
 Carl F. J. Overhage, a retired professor of electrical engineering and former director of the Lincoln Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Aug. 7 at St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 85 and lived in Santa Fe. The cause was a stroke, said Arthu
 F. Karl Willenbrock, an electrical engineer and educator who retired two years ago as a senior scientist in the United States Department of Commerce, died on Aug. 24 at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 75 and a resident of the nearby town of Reston. The cause was heart failu
 Herbert S. Bridge, a scientist who had a pivotal role in the exploration of the solar system by unmanned spacecraft and in mapping the solar winds swirling through interplanetary space, died on Wednesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 76 and lived in Sudbury, Mass.     
 Sterling Morrison, a founding member and a guitarist for the seminal experimental rock band Velvet Underground, died on Wednesday at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 53. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said his wife, Martha. The Velvet Underground, which helped sp
 Walter I. Harris, the chairman emeritus of the Harris Structural Steel Company, died on Tuesday at his home in Lebanon, N.J. He was 92. Mr. Harris started working at the company, which was founded by his father, George Harris, when he was 13 years old. He worked there for 72 years. 
 John Erik Jonsson, a Swedish immigrant's son who helped found Texas Instruments and as Mayor of Dallas helped heal that city in the wake of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Thursday night at his home in Dallas. He was 93. Mr. Jonsson helped build Texas Instruments 
 Richard Sax, a chef and prolific cooking writer who taught millions of readers that elegant food could be prepared in ordinary kitchens using everyday ingredients, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 46 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said his editor at Ch
 John Erik Jonsson, a Swedish immigrant's son who helped found Texas Instruments and as Mayor of Dallas helped heal that city in the wake of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Thursday night at his home in Dallas. He was 93. Mr. Jonsson helped build Texas Instruments 
 Sidney Freidberg, a retired lawyer who had practiced in New York and Washington and was a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, died on Thursday in a nursing home in Briarciff Manor, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Pelham, N.Y. He had Parkinson's disease, said his daughter
 Alonzo Church, an eminent contributor to mathematical logic and teacher of a generation of American logicians, died in Hudson, Ohio, on Aug. 11. He was 92. Dr. Church's principal achievements lay in extending the work of Kurt Godel on the foundations of mathematics in a direction th
 Daniel M. Galbreath, whose family owned the Pittsburgh Pirates when they won three World Series and the Darby Dan Farm when it won the Kentucky Derby twice, died at the farm in Galloway, Ohio, outside Columbus on Sunday. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, a family spokesman s
 William M. Kunstler, the gravel-voiced radical lawyer whose wild hair seemed to symbolize his distrust of government and his kinship with unpopular people and causes, died yesterday. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kunstler died of heart failure at Columbia Presbyterian Hospit
 John J. Regan, who dealt with human mortality first as a Roman Catholic priest and later as an authority on the legal rights of the elderly, died on Friday at his home in Garden City, L.I. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said Michael B. DeLuise, a spokesman for the Hofstra Universi
 Dr. Murray B. Bornstein, who was known for his research involving multiple sclerosis, died on Thursday in Gainesville, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Norwich, Vt. The cause was a cardiac aneurysm, his family said. He was stricken at Gainesville Regional Airport after testifying in a Fl
 Vaclav Neumann, the conductor of the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra for more than 20 years, died on Saturday in Vienna. He was 74. Through his many recordings, his tours with the Czech Philharmonic and his occasional guest appearances in the United States -- including a series of Jana
 David Dodds Henry, a onetime English professor who served as president of the University of Illinois during a period of significant expansion in the 1950's and the era of campus unrest in the 1960's, died on Monday at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. He was 89. If there were times whe
 Eugene M. Schwartz, who with his wife, Barbara, assembled one of the nation's leading collections of contemporary art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, his wife said. An advertising copywriter whose specialty was direct-mail c
 Dr. George deStevens, a chemist who discovered a drug that is one of the most widely used treatments for high blood pressure, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 71 and lived in Summit. The cause was lymphoma, according to the Brough Funeral Home in Summit.  
 John Megna, who as a boy starred in Broadway plays and in the movie "To Kill a Mockingbird," died on Monday at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 42 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was AIDS, his family said. Mr. Megna was born in New York City and graduated from Corn
 Leo Goldsmith Jr., a lawyer who had served as mayor of Larchmont and supervisor of the Town of Mamaroneck, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Larchmont. He was 83. Mr. Goldsmith died of a heart attack, a spokesman for his law firm said. He had been a partner at Bangser Klein Rocca & Blu
 Buster Mathis, an oversized heavyweight boxer who lost a championship bout to Joe Frazier in 1968 and a comeback fight to Muhammad Ali in 1971, died Wednesday. He was 51. His wife, Joan, found him unconscious at home and he was pronounced dead at Butterworth Hospital in Grand Rapids
 Donald J. Byrnes, chief executive of the Spalding and Evenflo Companies, died on Wednesday near his home in Tampa, Fla., while driving to his office. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, a company spokesman said. The Spalding and Evenflo Companies, a subsidiary of the Ci
 Gerard Salton, a professor of computer science at Cornell University and a leading authority on information retrieval systems, died on Aug. 28 at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in Ithaca. The cause was cancer, the university said. Professor S
 Rexford F. Daubenmire, a botanist who was decades ahead of his time in looking at forest and field and figuring out what would have grown there if people had not intruded with logging and grazing, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Mount Ply mouth, Fla. He was 85. Dr. Daubenmire taught 
 Ralph Rosenblum, a film editor, director and teacher, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Rosenblum edited six of Woody Allen's films, beginning with "Take the Money and Run" and including "Annie Hall" and "Sl
 Verne M. Chapman, a leading mammalian geneticist and chairman of the Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology at Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo, died on Aug. 30 while attending a scientific meeting in Tsukuba Science City in Japan. He was 56. Dr. Chapman, who lived in 
 David Farrar, a British actor whose dark and rather sinister good looks helped to vault him to fame and then helped to diminish it, died on Aug. 31 in South Africa, where he had lived in recent years. He was 87. Mr. Farrar became well known to American audiences in the 1940's, in la
 Raymond Koontz, who orchestrated Diebold Inc.'s transformation from a manufacturer of bank vaults and safes into a leading maker of automated teller machines, died on Thursday at his home in Canton, Ohio, a Diebold spokesman said. He was 83. A native of North Carolina, Mr. Koontz le
 Ricardo Sanchez, a high school dropout and ex-convict whose raging cries for cultural justice gave poetic voice to the Chicano protest movement of the 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in El Paso. He was 54. Until a diagnosis of terminal stomach cancer forced him to take medical 
 Jamie L. Whitten, a son of the Old South who made a smooth transition to the New South as a Democratic Congressman from Mississippi for 53 years -- the record for the longest service in the House of Representatives -- died today in Oxford, Miss. Mr. Whitten, who was chairman of the powerful
 Robert C. Ode, the oldest of the 52 Americans held hostage for 444 days in Iran, died on Friday at a hospital in Sun City West, Ariz., the retirement community where he had lived since shortly after his release in 1981. He was 79. His wife, Rita, said the cause of death was pneumoni
 Benjamin Mazar, a prominent historian and archeologist who pioneered a synthesis of biblical research with historical geography in Israel, died on Friday in Jerusalem. He was 89. A scholar of Jewish history in the biblical period and a former president of the Hebrew University, Prof
 Garrison Norton, a former Assistant Secretary of State and Assistant Secretary of the Navy, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 94. Mr. Norton was an Assistant Secretary of State in charge of policies on international transportation and communications from 1947 to 194
 George Gerber, a former Clarks town, N.Y., supervisor who thought he had put politics behind him when he retired to Florida in 1986, died on Friday at his home in Coconut Creek, the Broward County city where he was in his second term as Mayor. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his wi
 Jamie L. Whitten, a son of the Old South who made a smooth transition to the New South as a Democratic Congressman from Mississippi for 53 years -- the record for the longest service in the House of Representatives -- died Saturday in Oxford, Miss. Mr. Whitten, who was chairman of the power
 Robert C. Ode, the oldest of the 52 Americans held hostage for 444 days in Iran, died on Friday at a hospital in Sun City West, Ariz., the retirement community where he had lived since shortly after his release in 1981. He was 79. His wife, Rita, said the cause of death was pneumoni
 Charles Denner, a French stage and film actor who is best remembered for his role in Francois Truffaut's screen comedy "The Man Who Loved Women," died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Dreux, west of Paris. He was 69. No cause of death was given, but he had been fighting canc
 Charles J. Hitch, who served as president of the University of California at a time of campus unrest, budgetary restraints and legislative and administrative intervention, died yesterday in a rest home in San Leandro, Calif. Mr. Hitch, who lived in Berkeley, Calif., was 85. An econo
 Richard L. Tobin, a reporter and editor for The New York Herald Tribune and an editor and executive of The Saturday Review, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Southbury, Conn. He was 85. At The Herald Tribune from 1932 to 1956, Mr. Tobin was a reporter, editor, war correspondent an
 Emanuel Geltman, a founding editor of the political journal Dissent, died last Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, said Frances Sosnoff, with whom he had lived for 23 years. Mr. Geltman, who founded Dissent with 
 The Rev. Jerome Theisen, Abbot Primate of the world's 30,000 Benedictine monks and nuns, died Sunday night at a hospital in Rome. He was 64. Abbot Theisen, the second American to lead the Benedictine order in its nearly 1,500-year history, died of a heart attack, said his secretary,
 Roy Hemming, a writer, critic and broadcaster specializing in music, film and video, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York City. He was 70. The cause was multiple myeloma, said Dr. Craig Metroka. Mr. Hemming was the author of five books, includin
 William J. Lentsch, a theater director who worked Off Broadway, died on Saturday at his home in Valatie, N.Y. He was 53. The cause was heart failure, according to the Raymond E. Bond Funeral Home in Valatie. Mr. Lentsch's credits included productions of Tennessee Williams's 
 Donald M. White, a highly decorated retired rear admiral who served as a Navy aviator in both World War II and the Korean War, died on Monday at Baptist Hospital in Pensacola, Fla. He was 80 and lived in Pensacola. The cause was complications from abdominal surgery, his son Michael 
 George T. Kalaris, the officer assigned in 1974 by the Central Intelligence Agency to clean up one of its worst internal messes, a seemingly endless hunt for a Soviet agent in its own ranks, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 73 and had been under treatment for card
 Jeremy Brett, who incarnated Sherlock Holmes in the long-running "Mystery!" series on Public Television, died on Tuesday in London. He was 59. The cause was heart failure, according to Granada Television, which produced the series. More than any other actor since Basil Rathb
 Roger W. Heyns, the former Chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley during some of the most turbulent days of student protest in the 1960's, died Monday in Volos, Greece, while on a three-week tour that began in the Middle East. He was 77 and lived in Atherton, Calif. 
 William J. Wilkins, a member of the panel of judges that convicted leading Nazi industrialists during the Nuremberg war crimes trials, died on Saturday at his home in Bellevue, Wash. He was 98. Mr. Wilkins, a Superior Court judge in Washington State's King County for more than three
 Geoffrey Stokes, an author and journalist whose work ranged from politics to sports to music to cooking, died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 55 and lived in Woodstock, Vt. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Janice Prindle, said. Mr. St
 Malvin R. Goode, the first black correspondent on network television news, died on Tuesday at St. Margaret's Memorial Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 87. Mr. Goode lived in Pittsburgh, where he got his start in print and television reporting. He was hired by ABC News in 1962,
 C. Richard Taylor, a biology professor who studied why prehistoric kangaroos survived the advent of man (it is all in the hop) and why certain antelopes almost never drink, died on Sunday at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass. He was 56 and lived in Concord. The cause was a heart att
 Tom Helmore, a debonair Broadway and film actor in the 1940's and 50's, died on Tuesday in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 91. On stage and in films, Mr. Helmore specialized in comedies, playing opposite Katharine Cornell, Ginger Rogers and Jane Wyman, among others. He was the standby to 
 Wilson Desir, the Haitian freedom fighter who served his people as a beacon of hope and a pillar of aid and comfort through two decades of exile in New York, died on Wednesday at Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 57, and at his death he was the Haitian Consul General in New Yor
 Bishop Emerson J. Moore, an auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York who was an outspoken advocate of racial equality, died on Thursday. He was 57. He had been ill for several years and died of unknown natural causes, said a spokesman for the archdiocese, Josep
 Douglass Cater, a soft-spoken student and practitioner of government power who began his working life as a journalist and ended it as a college president -- after a heady detour through Lyndon B. Johnson's White House -- died yesterday at the guest house at Washington College in Chestertown
 Leon D. Adams, considered by wine aficionados and the wine industry to be the seminal wine historian in the United States in the 20th century, died on Thursday in San Francisco. He was 90. Mr. Adams was a prolific author of books, articles and pamphlets about wine, particularly Nort
 Michio Watanabe, one of the most influential politicians in Japan and long an aspirant to become Prime Minister, died early this morning in a Tokyo hospital. He was 72. His aides said the cause of death was heart failure. Mr. Watanabe had been in poor health for three years.        
 Robert J. Dunphy, an editor and travel writer for The New York Times for 25 years, died on Thursday at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his wife, Marie, said. Besides his wife, Mr. Dunphy is survived by a sister, Verna Fay Dellheim of Manhattan, a
 Victor M. Contini, a fifth-generation artisan who helped transform sculptors' artistic creations into some of the nation's most notable statues and then translated his ancient mold-making craft into a space-age skill as an aviation pattern maker, died last Sunday at Vassar Brothers Hospital
 Sir Grahame Clark, an archeologist and authority on prehistoric Europe, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 88. Sir Grahame was knighted for his work in 1992. He was master of Peterhouse College at Cambridge University from 1973 to 1980; Disney Professor of Arc
 Steve Cady, a former New York Times sports reporter who mainly covered horse racing and boating, died yesterday at his home in Brewster, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 68. He died after a long illness, said his wife, Carmel. Mr. Cady was born in Boston, grew up in Milton, Mass.,
 Lester Lum Colbert, a retired president and chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, died Friday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Colbert, whose nickname was Tex, succeeded K. T. Keller as president of Chrysler in 1950. He later added the title of chairman of the auto maker. 
 William H. Franklin, an accountant who joined Caterpillar Inc., the heavy-equipment giant, as a young executive and eventually became its chairman and chief executive, died in his sleep last Thursday at a nursing home in Peoria, Ill., his son Robert said. He was 86. Mr. Franklin joi
 Erich Kunz, an Austrian bass-baritone who sang with the Vienna State Opera, the Salzburg Festival and the Vienna Volksoper for more than three decades, died on Sept. 8 in Vienna. He was 86. A consummate character actor, Mr. Kunz had a broad repertory that ran the gamut from Beckmess
 Martin Gordon, a former Manhattan dealer in prints and drawings, died on Friday at the Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 56 and lived in Naples, Fla. The cause was prostate cancer, said Judith Goldberg, a friend. He graduated from the Rochester Institute of Te
 Munroe F. Pofcher, an adviser to American and European publishing companies on mergers and acquisitions, died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 69. Mr. Pofcher, who lived in Greenwich, died of a heart attack, said Kit van Tulleken, managing director of the Pofch
 Orville Redenbacher, the agricultural visionary who all but single-handedly revolutionized the American popcorn industry, was found dead yesterday at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 88. Mr. Redenbacher was found in a bathtub with a whirlpool in his condominium, where he drowned 
 Philip Wichard, an antique automobile collector who developed his passion for cars as a 10-year-old junkyard scout who was allowed to steer junkers being towed for scrap, died on Tuesday at his home in Huntington Bay, L.I. He was 76. His family said the cause was cancer. Bef
 Rene Anselmo, who built a Spanish language television network in the United States and then at age 61 bet his fortune on creating the world's first privately owned global satellite network, died yesterday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 69. The cause was heart disea
 Solomon Litt, who was active in Jewish philanthropic causes in New York, died on Monday in Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 92. Mr. Litt was a retired senior partner of the Asiel & Company brokerage, where he worked for more than 70 years. He served as p
 Andrew K. Ruotolo Jr., who as Union County Prosecutor in New Jersey created a special task force to wage war against car theft in Newark, died on Thursday at his home in Westfield, N.J. He was 42. The cause was cancer, according to his sister, Diane Webber. Mr. Ruotolo, who 
 Jack E. Murphy, a publicity director for the New York Philharmonic who also worked at Carnegie Hall, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 and also had a home in Italy. The cause was bone cancer, a Carnegie Hall spokesman said. Mr. Murphy served in the Marine 
 Raymond J. O'Connor, who wielded power in Washington as head of the agency that oversees the natural gas and oil-pipeline industries but was stubbornly immune to Potomac Fever, died on Wednesday at his home in Douglaston, Queens. He was 63. The cause of death was a brain tumor, his 
 Sir Rudolph Peierls, the physicist whose surprising calculations at the University of Birmingham in England in 1940 helped paved the way for the atomic bomb five years later, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Oxford, England. He was 88 and had been under treatment for kidney problems.       
 Walter A. Haas Jr., patriarch of the San Francisco family that controls Levi Strauss & Company, died at his home in San Francisco on Wednesday. He was 79. Mr. Haas died after a battle with prostate cancer, said Sean Fitzgerald, a Levi Strauss spokesman. While he spent the bu
 Donald Davie, a poet, professor and literary critic who was a major influence on British poetry in the 1950's, died on Monday in Exeter, England. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said Michael Schmidt, Mr. Davie's editor at Carcanet, a publishing house in Manchester. Mr. Davi
 Dr. Melvin N. A. Peterson, who led a deep-sea drilling program at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography that advanced understanding of the ocean floors and the slow waltz of the continents, died on Wednesday while on a fishing trip in Mexico. He was 66 and lived in Del Mar, Calif.        
 Henry P. Bowman, who flew missions over North Africa and Italy during World War II as one of the Tuskegee airmen and who broke racial barriers as a black sports official in the Big 10 in the postwar years, died last Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. Mr. Bowman had suff
 Howard C. Miller, founder of Howard Miller, the nation's largest clock manufacturer, died on Thursday at his home in Holland, Mich. He was 90. For 69 years, Mr. Miller's business, based in Zeeland, Mich., has designed and manufactured an eclectic array of grandfather, wall and mante
 Robert G. Dunlop, a retired chairman of the Sun Company Inc. whose 23-year tenure as president led to a rapid growth of the Philadelphia-based energy company and its expansion overseas, died at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania on Wednesday. He was 86 and lived in Bryn Mawr, Pa
 Robert W. Meserve, a former president of the American Bar Association who championed stronger ethics rules for lawyers, died Thursday at New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 86. As president of the bar association from 1972 to 1973, during the height of Watergate, Mr. Meserv
 Willis N. Mills, an architect who designed churches, a library, veterans' housing and college buildings in New England, died on Thursday at Liberty Commons Nursing Home in Chatham, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Mills, a founding partner of Sherwood, Mills & Smith, an architectural firm in St
 Milton K. Munitz, who retired as distinguished professor of philosophy at the City University of New York, died yesterday at his home in Scarborough, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Dr. Lenore Bloom Munitz, who retired as a professor of philosophy at Br
 Robert W. Meserve, a former president of the American Bar Association who championed stronger ethics rules for lawyers, died Thursday at New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 86. As president of the bar association from 1972 to 1973, during the height of Watergate, Mr. Meserv
 Stanley Lewis, owner of the Parnassus bookshop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and former publisher of the journal Parnassus: Poetry in Review, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived on the Upper West Side. He had leukemia, said his daug
 Rabbi Yehuda Meir Getz, who presided over the Western Wall of the ruined Second Temple in East Jerusalem -- Judaism's holiest site -- died on Sept. 17 in Jerusalem. He was 71 and lived in East Jerusalem. He died of a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. After the 196
 Dick Steinberg, general manager of the New York Jets the last six seasons and a respected talent scout who helped build the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots into Super Bowl teams, died yesterday. He was 60. The cause of death was stomach cancer, the Jets announced.     
 Samuel A. Guttman, a physician and Freudian analyst who taught and published and was a leader in national and international psychoanalytic organizations, died on Sept. 18 in a nursing home near his home in Pennington, N.J. He was 81. The cause was complications of cancer, his family
 On his resume, Leon M. Goldstein, the president of Kingsborough Community College and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's favorite to be chancellor of the New York City schools, says he did "graduate work toward a Ph.D." at New York University in 1965. Yesterday, however, the university sai
 John L. Bates, who fled Russia as the son of a top Czarist guard, returned in World War II as a United States military attache and interpreted for President Roosevelt in his momentous talks with Stalin at Teheran and Yalta, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 85.       
 Grady Sutton, one of W. C. Fields's favorite foils as a character actor in "The Bank Dick" and other films, died on Sept. 17 at the Motion Picture and Television Country Home and Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Sutton was one of those supporting players whose face 
 Harry D. Goldman, a retired judge who appointed monitors to protect inmates at Attica prison after a riot in which more than 40 people were killed, died on Thursday at his home in Rochester. He was 92. The cause was cancer, his family said. Judge Goldman served in the state 
 James Grottola, the president of New York Typographical Union No. 6, died on Tuesday at his home in Commack, L.I. He was 57. The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Grottola became union president in 1990, succeeding Bertram A. Powers, who had 
 Timothy Jenkins, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for more than a decade, died on Thursday in Durham, N.C. He was 44 and lived in Amarillo, Tex. He died of a heart attack while exercising in preparation for a performance, his manager, Merle Hubbard, said. Mr. Jenki
 Dr. John B. Calhoun, an ecologist who saw in the bleak effects of overpopulation on rats and mice a model for the future of the human race, died on Sept. 7 while on vacation in Hanover, N.H. He was 78 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was a stroke after a mild heart attack, said 
 Dr. James Watt, a public health researcher and administrator who was the director of the National Heart Institute in the 1950's, died on Aug. 22 at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital in Norfolk, Va. He was 84 and lived in Norfolk. The cause was prostate cancer, said Dr. Myron E. Wegma
 Marshall Erdman, a builder whose first big project was a Frank Lloyd Wright church without a steeple, and who became a major producer of prefabricated structures, died on Sunday in a hospital in Madison, Wis., his hometown. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. A
 Charles J. Simon, a retired general partner at Salomon Brothers investment bank and a philanthropist, died on Wednesday at home in Manhattan. He was 83. He had been in failing health with varied ailments, said Steve Loeb, his lawyer. Henry Kaufman, a former partner at Salomo
 Clyde G. Culbertson, a medical educator and researcher who developed a process that enabled the Salk polio vaccine to be mass-produced, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Columbus, Ind. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said Dr. James W. Smith, a colleague at Indiana University, 
 M. Abbott Van Nostrand, who for 38 years served as president and chief executive of Samuel French Inc., the largest licenser of plays in the English-speaking world, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84. From 1952 until his retirement in 1990
 Romulo Escobar Bethancourt, Panama's chief negotiator in 1977 when the United States agreed to give up control of the Panama Canal, died on Thursday at a hospital in Panama City. He was 68. The cause was throat cancer, local news reports said. A political advocate who was ja
