 Baron Bernd Freytag von Loringhoven, who as a young German Army officer was one of the last to flee Hitler's Berlin bunker as Soviet troops closed in, died on Feb. 27 in Munich. He was 93. Wolf Jobst Siedler Jr., the German publisher of Baron von Loringhoven's memoirs, confirmed the
 Abe Coleman, a squat powerhouse of a professional wrestler, billed by promoters as the Hebrew Hercules and known to opponents by the two-footed kick he copied from kangaroos, died Wednesday in New York. He was 101, probably making him the oldest professional wrestler, according to wrestling
 Paul J. Cohen, a versatile mathematician whose path-breaking work in the field of logic helped resolve a fundamental question of mathematics and won for him the prestigious Fields Medal, died of a lung disease on March 23 in Stanford, Calif. He was 72. Dr. Cohen's death was confirme
 Kenneth I. Greisen, a physicist who helped broaden methods of studying cosmic rays, including sending unmanned balloons into the upper atmosphere and planting detection devices in salt mines, died on March 17 in Ithaca, N.Y., where he was a former dean at Cornell University. He was 89.     
 Thomas Rogers, a novelist whose wryly comic books chart the rocky landscape where youthful alienation -- and youthful ardor -- meet straight-backed WASP propriety, died on Sunday in State College, Pa. He was 79 and had lived in State College for many years. Mr. Rogers died after a o
 John Billings, an Australian physician who more than half a century ago developed a natural contraception method endorsed by the Roman Catholic Church, died Sunday in Melbourne. He was 89 and a lifelong Melbourne resident. The death was announced on the Web site of Woomb Internation
 Neil Shine, a former publisher and editor of The Detroit Free Press who played important roles as the newspaper won major awards and later as it weathered the industry's longest strike, died yesterday near Detroit. He was 76. The cause was respiratory failure, the newspaper announce
 Tom Moore, who as president of the ABC Television Network in the 1960s helped it narrow the ratings gap with NBC and CBS, and who later won five Emmys as head of his own production company, died Saturday near his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 88. The death was confirmed by his
 Eddie Robinson, who in 55 seasons as the football coach at Grambling State University won a record number of games, mentored scores of future professional players and helped bring racial awareness to a segregated Southern society, died late Tuesday night in Ruston, La. He was 88 and lived i
 Darryl Stingley, a receiver for the New England Patriots who became a quadriplegic after an intentionally violent hit in a 1978 preseason game, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 55. Tony Brucci, an investigator with the Cook County medical examiner's office, told The Associated Pres
 Jacques Courtin-Clarins, the founder and chairman of the Clarins Groupe, a French company that produces luxury skin-care products and makeup made primarily from plant extracts, died on March 23 at his home outside Paris. He was 85. His death was announced by the company. Mr.
 Michael Dibdin, an internationally acclaimed British crime novelist whose best-known books feature the brooding Italian police detective Aurelio Zen, died on March 30 in Seattle. He was 60 and had lived in Seattle in recent years. Mr. Dibdin died after a short illness, his stepdaugh
 Olcott Hawthorne Deming, a career Foreign Service officer and the first American ambassador to Uganda after it gained independence from Britain in 1962, died on March 20 near his home in Washington. He was 98. The death was confirmed by his son Rust Deming. Mr. Deming was ap
 Walter Nicks, an internationally known dancer, teacher and choreographer, died on Tuesday in Brooklyn. He was 81. His death was confirmed by Dr. Glory Van Scott, a colleague and friend. Mr. Nicks was a certified master teacher of the technique of Katherine Dunham, at whose M
 Laurie Baker, a British architect whose chance meeting with Mahatma Gandhi in the 1940s started him on a lifelong career of designing low-cost and environmentally respectful houses in India, died on April 1 at the Hamlet, a home he designed himself, in Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of the
 Colin Graham, the artistic director of the Opera Theater of St. Louis, died on Friday in Creve Coeur, Mo., near St. Louis. He was 75. The cause was respiratory and cardiac arrest, the Opera Theater announced. Mr. Graham staged 48 new productions at St. Louis, including Britt
 Sol LeWitt, whose deceptively simple geometric sculptures and drawings and ecstatically colored and jazzy wall paintings established him as a lodestar of modern American art, died yesterday in New York. He was 78 and lived mostly in Chester, Conn. The cause was complications from ca
 James J. Needham, the first full-time paid chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, died on Friday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was complications related to myelodysplastic syndrome, a bone marrow disorder, his son-in-law, Tim Donahue, said. Mr. Need
 Jagjit Singh Chauhan, the Sikh who led a violent separatist movement in India's northern Punjab State, died at his home in Tanda, India, on April 4. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Charanjit Kaur. Mr. Chauhan was born in 1927 in Tanda. A dentist by pr
 George Jenkins, an Academy Award-winning production designer and three-time Tony nominee known for his architectural eye and scrupulous attention to detail, died on Friday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 98. He died of natural causes, said his granddaughter Wylie Griffin.
 Kurt Vonnegut, whose dark comic talent and urgent moral vision in novels like ''Slaughterhouse-Five,'' ''Cat's Cradle'' and ''God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater'' caught the temper of his times and the imagination of a generation, died last night in Manhattan. He was 84 and had homes in Manhattan
 Paul Leventhal, who as president of the small but influential Nuclear Control Institute was one of the most vocal opponents of expanding the commercial use of nuclear power, died Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his son Ted said. Mr. L
 Roscoe Lee Browne, a stage, film and television actor known for his rich voice, died early yesterday morning at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said Alan Nierob, a spokesman. Mr. Browne came to acting some
 Rubin Caslow, a titan of smoked fish who for half a century paved America with salmon, whitefish and herring, died on Sunday at his home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was cancer, his son Robert said. For decades, Mr. Caslow presided over the Acme Smoked Fish Corporati
 Eben Pyne, a patrician banker who helped Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller mold New York's suburban transit system from a tangle of decrepit railroad lines, died Wednesday night at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Pyne also had a home in Northeast Harbor, Me., and for much of hi
 Edgar B. Young, the behind-the-scenes administrator who smoothed the way for the construction of Lincoln Center in the 1960s by juggling the demands of government agencies, donors, architects and artistic organizations, died on April 6 at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 98. The dea
 Kurt Vonnegut, whose dark comic talent and urgent moral vision in novels like ''Slaughterhouse-Five,'' ''Cat's Cradle'' and ''God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater'' caught the temper of his times and the imagination of a generation, died Wednesday night in Manhattan. He was 84 and had homes in Manh
 Barry Nelson, an actor who had a long career in film and television, starred in some of the more durable Broadway comedies of the 1950s and '60s, and achieved a permanent place in the minds of trivia buffs as the first actor to portray James Bond, died last Saturday, his wife said yesterday
 Reginald H. Fuller, a prominent British-born New Testament scholar who used his knowledge of Hebrew and Greek to hunt for the historical Jesus and his fluency in German to debate the nuances with theologians, died on April 4 in Richmond, Va. He was 92. The cause was complications of
 Stan Daniels, a television writer who won Emmy Awards for his work on the groundbreaking situation comedies ''Taxi'' and ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' died April 6 at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said Ed Weinberger, his former writing partner.
 Warren E. Preece, a former editor of The Encyclopaedia Britannica who in the early 1970s shepherded it through its first major redesign in decades, a task he likened publicly to fighting a war, died on Wednesday in Philadelphia. He was 85 and had lived in Philadelphia in recent years.      
 Don Ho, an entertainer who defined popular perceptions of Hawaiian music in the 1960s and held fast to that image as a peerless Waikiki nightclub attraction, died yesterday in Honolulu. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Dayna Ho said. Mr. Ho was a durable 
 Egon Bondy, a poet and philosopher whose idiosyncratic cocktail of whimsically demented verse and profoundly subversive metaphysics lubricated the underground movement that helped topple Communism in Czechoslovakia, died on Monday in Bratislava, Slovakia. He was 77. The Czech News A
 Paul Watzlawick, a therapist who advanced a novel strategy for rapid diagnosis and treatment of problems that occur in marriages and families, died on March 31 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. In the 1960s, Dr. Watzla
 Don Ho, an entertainer who defined popular perceptions of Hawaiian music in the 1960s and held fast to that image as a peerless Waikiki nightclub attraction, died Saturday in Honolulu. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Dayna Ho said. Mr. Ho was a durable s
 James Lyons, a film editor whose most notable collaborations were with the director Todd Haynes on several feature films, including ''Safe,'' ''Velvet Goldmine'' and ''Far From Heaven,'' died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 46 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was squamous cell
 Salvatore Scarpitta, an artist whose work ranged from three-dimensional wrapped canvases that evoked survival and death to sculptural renderings of cars and sleds that extolled his belief in travel as a metaphor for life, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. The caus
 Rexford E. Tompkins, a former chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York who was one of the industry's leading voices in creating New York City's rent stabilization system, died Thursday near his home in Miami. Mr. Tompkins was 90. The death was announced by his daughter Diana Sc
 Brant Parker, a co-creator of ''The Wizard of Id,'' an award-winning comic strip that is set in medieval times and has poked fun at politics and cultural follies for more than 40 years, died on Sunday at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 86. The cause was complications from Alzheime
 Conrad Spizz, a tough-talking, cigar-chewing artisan of smoked fish whose work was enshrined behind glass at some of New York's best-known food shops, died on April 3 in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in New Hyde Park, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, his son, Harvey, s
 Hans Koning, whose outpouring of more than 40 fiction and nonfiction books ranged from exotic travel to erotic trauma to a withering indictment of Christopher Columbus, died on Friday at his home in Easton, Conn. He was 85. His daughter Christina Koning confirmed the death, but decl
 Roy Moyer, a painter who helped bring works by other artists to museums across the United States, died on April 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said his partner, Karl Lunde. Trained as an art historian and concert pianist and self-taught 
 Alvin L. Roth, who was one of the most talented bridge players of all time, winning 26 national championships with 11 different partners, died yesterday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Roth died of natural causes, his family said. Born in the Bronx in 1914, Mr. Roth was a
 Chaucey Starr, a pioneer in the fields of nuclear energy and risk analysis and an evangelist for the idea of electrification as a boon to humankind and the environment, died on Tuesday at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 95. Mr. Starr was still coming to work six days a week unti
 Former Representative Steven B. Derounian, who represented Nassau County in Congress from 1953 to 1965 and was later a judge, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex. He was 89 and moved to Austin, in his wife's home state, from Garden City in 1981. His nephew, Paul D. Derounian of Manhattan
 Andrew Hill, a pianist and composer of highly original and sometimes opaquely inner-dwelling jazz whose work only recently found a wide audience, died yesterday at his home in Jersey City. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Joanne Robinson Hill. It took alm
 Carlo Maria Badini, a former superintendent of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan who brought the opera house into the age of television and corporate sponsorship, died in Bologna, Italy, on Thursday. He was 81. His death was announced by La Scala, which did not give a cause. The Italia
 Frank H. Westheimer, a Harvard chemist whose work in understanding how the body metabolizes alcohol became a model for similar studies in the growing field of biochemistry, died last Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95. Dr. Westheimer's death was confirmed by his family.     
 Kelsie B. Harder, whose ruminations about why his parents gave him what sounded like a girl's name provoked such enthrallment with proper nouns that he became a leading onomastician -- a student of names and their origins -- died on April 12 at his home in Potsdam, N.Y. He was 84. T
 John R. Drexel III, scion of a powerful Philadelphia banking family and a prominent socialite in an era when the charity galas and debutante balls of the affluent dominated society-page headlines, died April 13 at his estate in Newport, R.I. He was 87. The cause was heart failure, h
 Otto Natzler, a ceramicist best known for inventing glazes resembling geologic textures and colors that he applied to forms created by his wife Gertrud in a famous collaboration of more than three decades, died on April 7 in Los Angeles. He was 99. The cause was cancer, said Darrel 
 Parry O'Brien, who revolutionized shot-putting technique, won three Olympic medals (two gold) and became the first man to reach 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 feet, died Saturday during a masters swimming race in Santa Clarita, Calif. He was 75 and lived in Rancho Belago, Calif., west of Palm Spring
 Boris N. Yeltsin, the burly provincial politician who became a Soviet-era reformer and later a towering figure of his time as the first freely elected leader of Russia, presiding over the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the demise of the Communist Party, died yesterday in Moscow. He was
 David Halberstam, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and tireless author of books on topics as varied as America's military failings in Vietnam, the deaths of firefighters at the World Trade Center and the high-pressure world of professional basketball, was killed yesterday in a car crash 
 Michael Smuin, a choreographer who worked for major ballet companies and led his own, marshaling eclectic dance forms, robust athleticism and striking theatricality to create works that appealed to broad audiences, died yesterday in San Francisco. He was 68. The apparent cause was a
 Paul E. Erdman, a writer of best-selling novels of financial intrigue who began his literary career in the comfort of a Swiss jail, where he was being held in connection with the collapse of the Swiss bank he ran, died on Monday at his ranch in Healdsburg, Calif. He was 74. The caus
 Warren E. Avis, a Michigan car dealership owner who, frustrated at waiting for taxis outside airports, founded a chain of car rental agencies and turned it into the nation's second biggest, died yesterday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 92. Mr. Avis's death was confirmed by h
 Alan Ball, a crafty 5-foot-6 soccer midfielder who at 21 was the youngest member of the team that won England its only World Cup, in 1966, died yesterday in Warsash, Hampshire. He was 61. Ball collapsed in his garden during the night while trying to put out a compost heap fire and a
 Bohdan Paczynski, a leading astrophysicist whose unconventional ideas led to new methods of studying distant stars and hidden planets, including a sweeping nightly survey of the entire sky, died last Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 67. The cause was brain cancer, said
 Dr. James R. Richards, a prominent veterinarian who was a recognized authority on cat care, died on Tuesday in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 58 and lived in Dryden, N.Y. Dr. Richards died of injuries he sustained in a motorcycle accident on Sunday. According to Sgt. Kelly Daley of the N
 Jack Valenti, who became a confidant of President Lyndon B. Johnson and then a Hollywood institution, leading the Motion Picture Association of America and devising a voluntary film-rating system that gave new meaning to letters like G, R and X, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He 
 Walter Bareiss, a businessman who amassed vast collections of African, Western classical and contemporary art, much of which found homes in museums, died on Monday in Stamford, Conn. He was 87. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Hugh said. Mr. Bareiss (pronounce
 William B. Lawless Jr., a former justice of the New York State Supreme Court and dean of the University of Notre Dame School of Law, died Monday near his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 84. The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter Therese said. Mr. Lawless was
 James B. Davis, the leader of the Dixie Hummingbirds, one of the longest-lasting and most influential groups in gospel music, died on April 17 in Philadelphia. He was 90 and lived in Philadelphia. His death was announced by the group. Mr. Davis was 12 when he started the gro
 Mstislav Rostropovich, the cellist and conductor who was renowned not only as one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century but also as an outspoken champion of artistic freedom in the Soviet Union during the last decades of the cold war, died yesterday in Moscow. He was 80 and live
 Robert Rosenthal, a highly decorated pilot in World War II who helped usher in a new kind of warfare, the strategic bombing of Germany, in which huge bombers scraped the ice-cold stratosphere while serving as easy targets for enemy fighters and ground guns, died on April 20 in White Plains.
 Joseph J. M. Saleh, a film producer and real estate investor who took over what had been the underground powerhouse for Manhattan's short-lived cable car system and converted it into the Angelika Film Center, a cultural hub in Lower Manhattan, died April 18 near his home outside Paris. He w
 Michael Malone, a tattoo artist renowned among his peers for helping to popularize and standardize tattooing through the vivid images of dragons, daggers, cartoon characters and crests that he distributed to tattoo parlors around the world, died on April 17 at his home in Chicago. He was 64
