Dr. Charles R. Marshall Jr., a psychiatrist who was director of rehabilitation medicine at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn., died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., at the age of 39. Dr. Charles R. Marshall Jr., a psychiatrist who was director of rehabili
Dr. Patrick A. Florio, a chemical industry consultant and former executive of the American Hoechst Corporation, died on Sept. 21 in Wiesbaden, Germany. He was 71 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. Dr. Patrick A. Florio, a chemical industry consultant and former executive
Edward F. Kook, the founder and longtime president of the Century Lighting Company, which brightened more than 1,000 Broadway plays, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. His death, at the age of 87, was caused by a heart attack, a family spokesman said. Edward F. Kook, t
George L. Hubbell Jr., a retired partner in the New York law firm of Cullen & Dykman, died on Thursday at his home in Garden City, L.I., at the age of 96. He died of pneumonia, a spokesman for the law firm said. George L. Hubbell Jr., a retired partner in the New York law firm
Lawrence Kasha, a producer and director of Broadway shows who also acted and wrote for the stage, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Lawrence Kasha, a producer and director of Broadway shows wh
Patrick White, the Australian novelist who won the 1973 Nobel Prize in Literature and international acclaim as a harsh but authentic voice of his homeland, died at his residence near Sydney yesterday after an illness of several weeks. He was 78 years old. Patrick White, the Au
Thomas P. Robinson, a television executive who was involved in the industry since its early days, died on Friday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 85 years old and lived in retirement in Tequesta, Fla. Thomas P. Robinson, a television executive who
David Carew Huntington, an author and professor of art history, died Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 67 years old and died of a heart attack, his son Caleb said. David Carew Huntington, an author and professor of art history, died Saturday at his home in Ann Ar
Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, the former Air Force chief of staff who was an architect of strategic air power and insisted that the nation be willing to use nuclear weapons when necessary, died yesterday in a California military hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Moreno Valley, Calif.
Rob Moroso, a stock car driver who was the 1989 Busch Grand National champion and a leading candidate for Winton Cup rookie of the year honors, died in an auto accident here Sunday night. He was 22 years old and lived in Terrell, N.C. Rob Moroso, a stock car driver who was the
Robert K. Greenleaf, a management consultant who helped develop a humanistic philosophy for business people, died Saturday at his home in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 86 years old and had suffered a series of strokes, his daughter, Madeline Jaynes, said. Robert K. Greenleaf, a m
Carlos Nunez Tellez, a Government leader in Nicaragua in the 10 years of control by the leftist Sandinista Front, died today in Havana, the main Sandinista radio station, Radio Ya, said. He was 39 years old. Carlos Nunez Tellez, a Government leader in Nicaragua in the 10 years
Clifford Ettinger, a teacher and former supervisor of motion-picture production for the New York City Board of Education, died on Saturday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 86 years old and lived in Newtown, Conn. Clifford Ettinger, a teacher and former supervisor of 
D. Allan Locke, an accountant, died on Sept. 26 at the Harrwood Nursing Home in Fulton, N.Y. He was 87 years old and lived in Fulton. D. Allan Locke, an accountant, died on Sept. 26 at the Harrwood Nursing Home in Fulton, N.Y. He was 87 years old and lived in Fulton. H
Eugene M. Hanofee, a judge in Sullivan County for 13 years, died on Friday at Community General Hospital in Harris, N.Y. He was 69 years old and lived in Liberty, N.Y. Eugene M. Hanofee, a judge in Sullivan County for 13 years, died on Friday at Community General Hospital in H
George Arthur Hornby, a self-educated book designer and producer, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  He died of complications from a recent stroke, said a daughter, Ann Guilfoyle. George Arthur Hornby, a self-educated book designer and producer, d
Heley Howell Rhys, an educator and art historian, died Wednesday at the nursing center at the retirement community of Crosslands in Kennet Square, Pa., where he lived. He was 80 years old and died of comlications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Jean, said. Heley Howell Rhys,
Joshua Torczyner, a diamond dealer who helped smuggle Jews out of Germany during World War II, died Sept. 26 at the Care West Hospital in Burlingame, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Burlingame. Joshua Torczyner, a diamond dealer who helped smuggle Jews out of Germany d
Michel Leiris, a French anthropologist and Surrealist writer who attracted international attention by chronicling his own obsessions and fears, died Sunday in Saint-Hilaire, southwest of Paris. He was 89 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Born in Paris in 1901, he was ed
Peter Herman Adler, a conductor who pioneered opera on television as artistic director of the NBC Opera Company and National Educational Television, died in his sleep early yesterday at the home of friends in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 91 years old. Peter Herman Adler, a conduct
John Cameron Sim, a professor emeritus at the University of Minnesota who was an authority on community press and scholastic journalism, died Sept. 25 at a nursing home in Minneapolis. He was 79 years old and lived in Minneapolis. John Cameron Sim, a professor emeritus at the 
Thomas Wright Thompson, a senior vice president with Shearson, Lehman Brothers and a former linebacker for the Cleveland Browns, died on Monday at the University of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. He was 63 years old and lived in Baltimore. He died of cancer, his wife, Elizabeth, said
Wallace Edward Carroll, an industrialist who last year made the largest private donation to Boston College in its history, died Saturday at his home in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 82 years old and also had homes on Martha's Vineyard and in Palm Beach, Fla. Wallace Edward Carroll,
William T. Kirby, who served as vice chairman and chairman of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, died Monday at West Bend, Wis., apparently of a heart attack. He was 79 years old and lived in Chicago. William T. Kirby, who served as vice chairman and chairman o
Charles C. Ellis 2d, a corporate financial officer who held posts with the RCA Corporation, Irving Trust and the Philco Finance Corporation, died last Wednesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 71 years old and lived in Washington. Charles C. Ellis 2d, a corpo
Charles Pfister, a designer of furniture and interior furnishings, died Monday at his home in San Francisco. He was 50 years old. Charles Pfister, a designer of furniture and interior furnishings, died Monday at his home in San Francisco. He was 50 years old. He died o
David Blumstein, a mathematics teacher at James Madison High School in Brooklyn for 30 years and the former owner of summer camps in the Poconos, died on Monday at Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 88 years old and lived in Philadelphia. David Blumstein, a 
Lester Asher, a leading labor lawyer in Chicago, died Tuesday at Stratford Hospital in Stratford, Ontario, where he was vacationing. He was 80 years old and lived in Chicago. Lester Asher, a leading labor lawyer in Chicago, died Tuesday at Stratford Hospital in Stratford, Onta
Louis Freddie Kohlman, a jazz drummer, died of cancer on Saturday at his home in New Orleans. He was 75 years old. Louis Freddie Kohlman, a jazz drummer, died of cancer on Saturday at his home in New Orleans. He was 75 years old. Mr. Kohlman began playing professionall
Russell Thacher, a film producer and writer, died on Monday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Woodland Hills, Calif. He died of complications after abdominal surgery, his family said. With Walter Seltzer, Mr. Thacher was co-producer of the
Stefano Casiraghi, the husband of Princess Caroline of Monaco, was killed yesterday when his speedboat flipped during a race on the French Riviera. He was 30 years old. Stefano Casiraghi, the husband of Princess Caroline of Monaco, was killed yesterday when his speedboat flipp
Theodore J. Holmgren, a former senior executive of Curtice Burns Foods in Rochester, died on Sunday at Strong Memorial Hospital there. He was 63 years old and lived in Pittsford, N.Y. Theodore J. Holmgren, a former senior executive of Curtice Burns Foods in Rochester, died on 
Former Defense Minister Alexej Cepicka, who was expelled from the Communist Party in the 1960's for his support of Stalinist policies, has died, the state press agency C.T.K. reported today. He was 80 years old. Former Defense Minister Alexej Cepicka, who was expelled from the
Dan Herr, board chairman of the Thomas More Association and publisher of The Critic, its cultural and literary magazine, died last Friday at Northwestern University Hospital in Chicago. He was 73 years old and lived in Chicago. Dan Herr, board chairman of the Thomas More Assoc
Eric W. Stoetzner, the director of foreign advertising at The New York Times for 20 years, died on Tuesday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 89 years old and lived in Stamford. Eric W. Stoetzner, the director of foreign advertising at The New York Times for 20 years,
Frank Hohner, the former president of the American branch of H. Hohner Inc., the world's largest producer of harmonicas, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Huntington, L.I. He was 81 years old and lived in Oyster Bay, L.I. Frank Hohner, the former president of the American
Harry Clay Blaney, a theater producer who was active in New York for more than three decades, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of leukemia, said his son, Harry Clay Blaney 3d. Mr. Blaney, who came from a theatrical family
Capt. Kenneth Cohen, director of career development at the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, L.I., died on Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 66 years old and lived in Jamaica, Queens. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Captain Cohen, who was 
Leland J. Holland, a retired Army colonel who was one of the 52 Americans held hostage for 444 days in Iran after the takeover of the United States Embassy in Teheran in 1979, died Tuesday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 63 years old and lived in Warrenton, Va
Monroe Oppenheimer, a lawyer in the New Deal Administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, died Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and lived in Washington. Monroe Oppenheimer, a lawyer in the New Deal Administration of Franklin D. Ro
Norbert Vesak, a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and a choreographer for many American and Canadian dance companies, died on Tuesday. He was 53 years old. Norbert Vesak, a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and a choreographer for many American a
Sergei G. Lapin, a Soviet diplomat and journalist, died today, state television reported. He was 78 years old. In a career that spanned six decades, Mr. Lapin served as head of two of the most powerful Soviet press organizations - the Gostelradio television and radio agency and the of
Vincent Chalk, the teacher who won an important legal ruling that protects the jobs of public employees who have AIDS, died on Tuesday at Coastal Community Hospital in Santa Ana, Calif. He was 45 years old and lived in Long Beach, Calif. Vincent Chalk, the teacher who won an i
Brig. Gen. John Groff, the oldest surviving general in the United States Marine Corps, died Tuesday at the Tri-City Hospital in Oceanside, Calif. He was 100 years old. Brig. Gen. John Groff, the oldest surviving general in the United States Marine Corps, died Tuesday at the Tr
Earnest W. B. Lewis, retired vice president and chief financial officer for the Westinghouse World Financial Corporation, died on Wednesday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Westport, Conn. He died of heart failure, his daughter Glenna Kean said.  Mr. Lewis
Edward F. Merrey, a lawyer in Paterson, N.J., for 54 years, died on Sept. 28 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Ridgewood. Edward F. Merrey, a lawyer in Paterson, N.J., for 54 years, died on Sept. 28 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He 
Edwin Fortune Russell, a retired partner in the law firm of Cullen & Dykman, died on Thursday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Bronxville. Edwin Fortune Russell, a retired partner in the law firm of Cullen & Dykman, died on Thursday at 
Francis X. Houghton, an advertising executive, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. Francis X. Houghton, an advertising executive, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. Mr. Houghton died of a heart attack, a spokes
Dr. John Rensselaer Whittier, an expert on Huntington's disease and illnesses affecting the elderly, died on Tuesday at Eastern Long Island Hospital in Greenport. He was 71 years old and lived in Orient, L.I. Dr. John Rensselaer Whittier, an expert on Huntington's disease and 
William Wilbur Weir, former director of the American Academy on Cyprus and past editor of The Christian Statesman, died Sunday at the hospital unit of the Reformed Presbyterian Home in Pittsburgh. He was 97 years old and lived in Beaver Falls, Pa. William Wilbur Weir, former d
David Lyman Hurwitz, a lawyer and partner in the Manhattan firm of Hurwitz & Vail, died on Friday in New York Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. David Lyman Hurwitz, a lawyer and partner in the Manhattan firm of Hurwitz & Vail, died on Friday in New Yor
Harry J. Halperin, a prominent New York lawyer for 66 years, died on Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 years old. Harry J. Halperin, a prominent New York lawyer for 66 years, died on Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 years ol
J. Murray Mitchell Jr., a leading government climatologist who warned for years of increasing evidence of global warming and of other human influences on the climate, died Friday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington after a long illness. He was 62 years old and lived in McL
Richard Schwarz, a film archivist and owner of the Thalia, the now-defunct Upper West Side theater venerated by generations of classic movie lovers, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. Richard Schwarz, a film archi
Winslow Ames, an art historian who wrote widely about drawings, architectural history, decorative arts and genealogy, died on Wednesday at the South County Hospital in Wakefield, R.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Saunderstown, R.I. Winslow Ames, an art historian who wrote 
J. Murray Mitchell Jr., a leading government climatologist who warned for years of increasing evidence of global warming and other human influences on the climate, died at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington on Friday after a long illness. He was 62 years old and lived in McL
Juan Jose Arevalo Bermejo, a former President of Guatemala whose Government modernized many of the country's institutions in the 1940's and launched a short-lived effort at broad social reform, died late Saturday in Guatemala City, members of his family said yesterday. He was 86 years
Scott M. Matheson, Governor of Idaho from 1977 to 1985, died yesterday at the University of Utah Health Sciences Center in Salt Lake City. He was 61 years old and lived in Salt Lake City. Scott M. Matheson, Governor of Idaho from 1977 to 1985, died yesterday at the University 
Sheik Rashid bin Said al-Maktum, co-founder of the United Arab Emirates and ruler of Dubai, died today, the state television announced. Reference works say he was born in 1914, but a family member said he was 84 years old. Sheik Rashid bin Said al-Maktum, co-founder of the Uni
Rabbi Shlomo Freifeld, dean of the Sh'or Yoshuv Institute of Jewish Studies in Far Rockaway, Queens, died on Saturday at his home in Far Rockaway. He was 66 years old. Rabbi Shlomo Freifeld, dean of the Sh'or Yoshuv Institute of Jewish Studies in Far Rockaway, Queens, died on 
William H. Mortensen, a college dropout who became a millionaire philanthropist, a State Senator, the Mayor of Hartford, a candidate for governor and the director of Connecticut's most important center for the performing arts, died on Saturday at his summer home in Old Saybrook. He wa
Winslow Ames, an art historian who wrote widely about drawings, architectural history, decorative arts and genealogy, died on Wednesday at the South County Hospital in Wakefield, R.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Saunderstown, R.I. Winslow Ames, an art historian who wrote 
Ahmed Kadry, chairman of the Eqyptian Antiquities Organization from 1982 until his abrupt dismissal in 1988, died Thursday in Pittsburgh. He was 59 years old. Friends said he had liver cancer and was awaiting a transplant. Mr. Kadry, an army officer who took part in the 1952 coup that
Andre Grabar, an internationally known expert on Byzantine art, died on Friday at his home in Paris. He was 94 years old. Andre Grabar, an internationally known expert on Byzantine art, died on Friday at his home in Paris. He was 94 years old. He died of cardiac arrest
Dr. H. L. Ginsberg, a biblical scholar and an authority on ancient Ugaritic literature, died on Thursday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. H. L. Ginsberg, a biblical scholar and an authority on ancient Ugaritic literature, died on Thursday at
Frank P. Camastro, publisher of Motor Magazine, died on Tuesday. He was 50 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. He apparently had a heart attack and was pronounced dead at Bellevue Hospital, a spokesman for the family said. Frank P. Camastro, publisher of Motor Magazine, di
Johannes Teengs Gerritsen, a Dutch businessman who fought the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II, died of a heart attack on Sunday after a car crash in The Hague. He was 82 years old and lived in Wassenaar, a suburb of The Hague. Johannes Teengs Gerritsen, a 
John D. Betz, former chief executive officer of Betz Laboratories Inc., a leader in waste water treatment, died Saturday at his home here. He was 72 years old. John D. Betz, former chief executive officer of Betz Laboratories Inc., a leader in waste water treatment, died Satur
Melvin M. Payne, chairman emeritus of the board of the National Geographic Society, died Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Melvin M. Payne, chairman emeritus of the board of the National Geographic Society, died 
Richard Louie, an associate director of the Freer Gallery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution system, died on Sunday in the Washington Hospital Center after being struck by a car on Saturday in Arlington, Va. He was 51 years old and lived in Arlingt
Sabyasachi Mukharji, the Chief Justice of India's Supreme Court, has died in London of heart-related complications, the authorities here said today. He was 63 years old. Sabyasachi Mukharji, the Chief Justice of India's Supreme Court, has died in London of heart-related compli
Alexis B. Tatistcheff, an economist and language expert who served as an interpreter for the State Department, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old. Alexis B. Tatistcheff, an economist and language expert who served as an interpreter for the State Depar
Arthur H. Schwartz, a lawyer who prosecuted mobsters and bootleggers during Prohibition and who later became a top New York State Republican official, died on Monday at Dobbs Ferry (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry. Arthur H. Schwartz, a l
Charles L. Sanders, the managing editor of Ebony magazine since 1968, died at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago on Thursday. He was 58 years old. Charles L. Sanders, the managing editor of Ebony magazine since 1968, died at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago on Thursday. He was
H. Gregory Thomas, retired president of Chanel Inc., the United States branch of the French fragrance concern, died yesterday at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Florida. He was 82 years old and lived in Masarkytown, Fla. H. Gregory Thomas, retired president of Chanel I
John B. Goodwin Sr., an executive recruiter for financial institutions, died yesterday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 85 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. John B. Goodwin Sr., an executive recruiter for financial institutions, died yesterday at Stamford Hospita
John Stewart Bell, whose test for one of the most bizarre aspects of quantum physics led to its apparent confirmation, died last week at a hospital in Geneva. He was 62 years old. John Stewart Bell, whose test for one of the most bizarre aspects of quantum physics led to its a
Myron (Grim) Natwick, the animator who gave life to the cartoon character Betty Boop, a curvaceous flapper with a Kewpie doll face whose favorite refrain was ''Boop-boop-a-doop,'' died on Sunday at Santa Monica Hospital Medical Center. He was 100 years old. He died of complications fr
The Rev. Henry G. Bovenkerk, a Presbyterian minister and former missionary to Japan, died on Sunday at Muhlenberg Hospital in Plainfield, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Westfield, N.J. The Rev. Henry G. Bovenkerk, a Presbyterian minister and former missionary to Japan, 
Scott Bartlett, an educator and independent film maker, died Sept. 29 at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 47 years old and lived in San Francisco. Scott Bartlett, an educator and independent film maker, died Sept. 29 at Pacific Presbyterian Medical 
Max Bloom, a retired associate justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court and a founder of the state's Liberal Party, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.   
Rabbi Nathan Witkin, who served for three decades as a chaplain ministering to United States armed services personnel and their families in the Canal Zone. died Tuesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 88 years old and had lived in retirement in Sarasota since 1978.   
Robert Francis Murphy, a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J. He was 66 years old. Robert Francis Murphy, a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J. He was 66 years old.
Anatole Broyard, a book critic, essayist and editor for The New York Times for 18 years until his retirement in June 1989, died yesterday morning at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. He was 70 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Anatole Broyard, a book critic, es
Arnold Olsen, a former Congressman who was one of Montana's most durable Democratic politicians, died at a nursing home in Helena, Mont., on Tuesday after a long illness. He had been comatose since July. He was 73 years old. Arnold Olsen, a former Congressman who was one of Mo
Councilman Morgan, a microbiologist, educator and former administrator at the National Academy of Sciences, died on Wednesday at Anne Arundel Hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 70 years old and had moved to Annapolis from Teaneck, N.J., about a year ago. Councilman Morgan, a mi
Dick Jorgensen, a field official in the National Football League for 23 years, died of cancer Wednesday. He was 56 years old. Dick Jorgensen, a field official in the National Football League for 23 years, died of cancer Wednesday. He was 56 years old. Mr. Jorgensen's a
Donald Royce, a retired rear admiral of the United States Navy who held high posts in aeronautical engineering, died Sunday at the Powhatan Nursing Home in Falls Church, Va. He was 98 years old and lived in McLean, Va. Donald Royce, a retired rear admiral of the United States 
Dr. Dane G. Prugh, a psychiatrist who studied the effects of illness and hospitalization on children, died Saturday at the Mount San Antonio Gardens retirement community in Claremont, Calif., where he lived. He was 72 years old. His family said he died of kidney failure. Dr. D
Frank E. McCreery, a former chief executive of Rohr Industries, a manufacturer of aircraft components, died Sunday at Alvarado Hospital in San Diego. He was 72 years old and lived in Poway, Calif. Frank E. McCreery, a former chief executive of Rohr Industries, a manufacturer o
Harold Gottfried, an accountant who was a leader in mass discount merchandising, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 77 years old. Harold Gottfried, an accountant who was a leader in mass discount merchandising, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He
Jesse Mintus, a former executive director of the Queens County Mental Health Association, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 78 years old and lived in the Bronx. Jesse Mintus, a former executive director of the Queens County Mental Health Association, died
Malcolm Smith, a financier and an investment banker, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., at the age of 86. Malcolm Smith, a financier and an investment banker, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., at the age of 86. He died of pneumonia, his fam
Morris Howard Hansen, an internationally known statistician who was former associate director for research and development at the United States Bureau of Census, died Tuesday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Rockville, Md.        
Murray Bowen, a psychiatrist who was a leader in the use of family therapy to treat mental illness, died Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 77 years old. He died of lung cancer, a spokeswoman for Georgetown University Medical Center said. Murray Bowen, a psychiatri
Robert DeBragga, a marketing executive who was told in 1978 that he was terminally ill with cancer but who lobbied for the next 12 years for improved cancer therapy and more treatment options, died on Friday at his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 50 years old. Robert DeBragga
Robert L. White, who was president of Kent State University when National Guardsmen shot to death four students and wounded nine during a protest against the Vietnam War, died Wednesday at Robinson Memorial Hospital in Ravenna, Ohio. He was 81 years old. The cause of death was not dis
Roger S. Foster, a lawyer with the Securities and Exchange Commission who became its general counsel in the late 1940's, died Tuesday at his home in Brookmont, Md. He was 89 years old. His family said he died of cardiac arrest. Roger S. Foster, a lawyer with the Securities and
 He died of a stroke, a family member said. Mr. Moses, an outfielder, hit .325 as a rookie with the Philadelphia Athletics in 1935. He hit .471 in the 1946 World Series for the Boston Red Sox in his only appearance in the post-season event. In his professional career, Mr. Moses, who 
Msgr. Walter J. Vetro, founder and chairman of the St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, died on Monday in the rectory of St. Nicholas Roman Catholic Church, where he lived. He was 73 years old. Msgr. Walter J. Vetro, found
William Henry Harrison, a five-term Republican Congressman who was a descendant of two Presidents, died of heart failure Monday at Palms of Pasadena Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 94 years old.  Mr. Harrison was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1950. He served
Dr. Barnet Halperin, a physician who practiced in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn for more than half a century, died on Wednesday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 83 years old. Dr. Barnet Halperin, a physician who practiced in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn for m
Eli A. Freydberg, a former executive with Consolidated Foods, died on Thursday at White Plains Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Eli A. Freydberg, a former executive with Consolidated Foods, died on Thursday at White Plains Hospital. He was 87 ye
George E. Hamilton Jr., a Washington lawyer who practiced for nearly seven decades and who was a past president of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, died Thursday at his home in Washington. Mr. Hamilton was 95 years old. George E. Hamilton Jr., a Washington lawyer who practiced for
J. W. (Bill) Fisher, an industrialist and philanthropist who was internationally known for his interest in the performing arts, died Thursday at his home in Marshalltown, Iowa. He was 76 years old and died of a respiratory ailment, a funeral home representative said. J. W. (Bi
Dr. John Harold Talbott, a researcher, educator and author, died Wednesday at a care community where he lived in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 88 years old and died of lymphoma, said his son, Dr. John A. Talbott of Baltimore. Dr. John Harold Talbott, a researcher, educator and aut
John P. Fadden, a trainer at Harvard for more than 50 years whose patients also included such notables as Babe Ruth, Ted Williams, Bob Cousy, Arthur Fiedler and John, Robert and Edward Kennedy, died of prostate cancer Wednesday at the Neville Manor nursing home in Cambridge, Mass. He 
Joseph R. Concilio, a certified public accountant and former executive with NBC, died on Thursday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph R. Concilio, a certified public accountant and former executive with NBC, died on Thursday at C
Leonard Krieger, a historian and an authority on the emergence of the modern European state who in 1962 was the first scholar given the rank of University Professor by the University of Chicago, died yesterday at a Chicago hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Chicago. Le
N. Mitchel Jason, a physician and former chief of urology at Huntington Hospital on Long Island, died on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old and lived in West Palm Beach. He died of cardiac arrest, his wife, Dorothy, said.  Dr. Jason joined 
Douglas Edwards, who in 1948 became network television's first anchorman, died yesterday in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 73 years old. Douglas Edwards, who in 1948 became network television's first anchorman, died yesterday in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 7
Le Duc Tho, the chief North Vietnamese negotiator at the Paris talks that led to the 1973 Vietnam cease-fire agreement and the withdrawal of the last American troops from Vietnam, died yesterday at Army Hospital 108 in Hanoi, the press attache of the Vietnam's United Nations mission, 
Samuel M. Brownell, a one-time Nebraska high school teacher who became the United States Commissioner of Education in the 1950's and later served as Superintendent of Schools in Detroit, died Friday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in New Haven. Samuel
Walter Ames Compton, a medical doctor who became a prominent pharmaceutical researcher and head of Miles Laboratories, one of the nation's leading manufacturers of health care products, died at the age of 79 on Thursday at his home in Elkhart, Ind. Walter Ames Compton, a medic
Hans Namuth, a photographer and film maker best known for his portraits of American artists, died on Saturday in East Hampton, L.I. He was 75 years old and lived in New York City and Water Mill, L.I. Hans Namuth, a photographer and film maker best known for his portraits of Am
Leonard Bernstein, one of the most prodigally talented and successful musicians in American history, died yesterday evening at his apartment at the Dakota on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 72 years old. Leonard Bernstein, one of the most prodigally talented and succe
William R. Knapp, a retired senior editor of The New Yorker magazine and a former town official in Westport, Conn., died on Friday at his home in Westport at the age of 70. William R. Knapp, a retired senior editor of The New Yorker magazine and a former town official in Westp
Alexander Zakin, a Russian-born pianist who was the longtime accompanist of the violinist Isaac Stern, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. His family said he died of heart failure. Mr. Zakin performed with Mr. Stern
Anthony D'Elia, executive director of the Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board, died of bone-marrow cancer on Saturday at Champlain Physicians Hospital in Plattsburgh. He was 70 years old and lived in Loon Lake. Anthony D'Elia, executive director of the Adirondack Par
Dr. Harold M. Fisher, a former president of the New York State Optometric Association and of the American Academy of Optometry, died on Friday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington. He was 85 years old and lived in Grafton, Vt. Dr. Harold M. Fisher, a former
Eristus Sams, a former Mayor of Prairie View who led an effort to win students the right to vote, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home here. He was 77 years old. Eristus Sams, a former Mayor of Prairie View who led an effort to win students the right to vote, died of a 
Dr. Eugene Sachs, who taught psychology at Queens College since 1964, died on Saturday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 57 years old. Dr. Eugene Sachs, who taught psychology at Queens College since 1964, died on Saturday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 57 years ol
Dr. Joseph DePietro, a physician and a founder of the American College of Obstetrics & Gynecology, died on Saturday at Booth Memorial Hospital in Queens. He was 93 years old and lived in Beechhurst, Queens. Dr. Joseph DePietro, a physician and a founder of the American College
Leif Andreas Larsen, a World War II resistance fighter and one of the most highly decorated naval heroes in Norway, died from a stroke on Friday, news reports here said. He was 84 years old. Leif Andreas Larsen, a World War II resistance fighter and one of the most highly deco
Cantor Maurice Handel, who officiated at synagogues in New York, Los Angeles and St. Paul for more than 35 years, died on Oct. 7 at the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 91 years old and lived in the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn. Cantor Maurice Handel,
Otavio Gouveia de Bulhoes, a Finance Minister under Brazil's former military leadership and a major force in national economic planning for nearly five decades, died Saturday of respiratory failure. He was 84 years old. Otavio Gouveia de Bulhoes, a Finance Minister under Brazi
Richard J. Cassidy, a communications consultant and former director of community services and special events at St. Patrick's Cathedral, died on Friday at his home in Keyport, N.J. He was 56 years old. Richard J. Cassidy, a communications consultant and former director of comm
Albert J. Harris, an education professor and a leader in the teaching of reading, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in West Palm Beach, Fla., and New Rochelle, N.Y. Albert J. Harris, an education professor and a leader in the teaching of re
The drummer and band leader Art Blakey, one of the most influential figures in jazz for the last 40 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. The drummer and band leader Art Blakey, one of the most influenti
Prof. Boris B. Piotrovsky, the director of the Hermitage in Leningrad, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in that city on Monday, the Soviet press agency Tass reported. He was 82 years old. Prof. Boris B. Piotrovsky, the director of the Hermitage in Leningrad, died of a cerebral he
Charles S. Garland Jr., managing director of the Baltimore securities firm of Alex. Brown & Sons, died Saturday at his home in Baltimore. He was 63 years old. His family said he died of cancer. Charles S. Garland Jr., managing director of the Baltimore securities firm of Alex.
Daniel Guilet, a violinist who was concertmaster of the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Arturo Toscanini and a founding member of the Beaux Arts Trio, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. Daniel Guilet, a violinist who was concertmaster of the NBC Symphon
Douglas Campbell, the first American-trained air ace in World War I, who was later a general manager of Pan American Grace Airways, died yesterday at his home in Cos Cob, Conn. He was 94 years old. Douglas Campbell, the first American-trained air ace in World War I, who was la
John Adams Bross Sr., a lawyer and former Federal aide, died yesterday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 79 years old and also had a home in Peterborough, N.H. John Adams Bross Sr., a lawyer and former Federal aide, died yesterday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 79 years old
Jorge Bolet, a Cuban-born virtuoso considered one of the leading contemporary exponents of Romantic pianism, died early Tuesday afternoon at his home in Mountain View, Calif., south of San Francisco. He was 75 years old. Jorge Bolet, a Cuban-born virtuoso considered one of the
Richard J. Hummler, the theater editor and critic of Variety, a weekly newspaper of the entertainment industry, was found dead yesterday afternoon at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old. Richard J. Hummler, the theater editor and critic of Variety, a weekly newspaper of
Robert Leonard, a voice teacher whose pupils included opera and theater singers, died Thursday in London. He was 49 years old and had homes in London and New York. Friends in New York said Mr. Leonard died of tuberculosis. Among his students were June Anderson, Michele Lagrange, Ashle
William E. Minshall, who served as a Republican Congressman from Ohio for 20 years before he retired in 1974, died Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 79 years old. William E. Minshall, who served as a Republican Congressman from Ohio for 20 years before he retired i
Constant Herbert Jacquet Jr., an expert on statistics on religious groups, died Tuesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Constant Herbert Jacquet Jr., an expert on statistics on religious groups, died Tuesday
Floyd R. Newman, an industrialist who gave millions of dollars to Cornell University, died Oct. 10 at Medina Community Hospital in Ohio. He was 99 years old and lived in Medina. Floyd R. Newman, an industrialist who gave millions of dollars to Cornell University, died Oct. 10 
Dr. Gilbert Sherman, a retired dentist and a former dental director of the Nassau County Departments of Health and of Social Welfare, died on Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 83 years old and lived in Madison, N.J., and in Pompano Beach, Fla.        
Maurice R. Chambers, a retired shoe manufacturing executive, died Sunday at Bethesda-Dilworth Memorial Hall in St. Louis. He was 74 years old and lived in St. Louis. Maurice R. Chambers, a retired shoe manufacturing executive, died Sunday at Bethesda-Dilworth Memorial Hall in 
Paul W. Bell, superintendent of the Dade County public schools for the last seven months, died of heart failure Tuesday at Baptist Hospital. He was 57 years old. Paul W. Bell, superintendent of the Dade County public schools for the last seven months, died of heart failure Tue
Thomas Franklin Brigance, a sportswear and swimwear designer for four decades, died on Sunday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 77 years old. Thomas Franklin Brigance, a sportswear and swimwear designer for four decades, died on Sunday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 77 ye
Charles G. Daley, a lawyer who served under Thomas E. Dewey in racketeering investigations in the 1930's, died on Sunday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Bronxville. He died of heart failure, his family said. Charles G. Daley, a lawyer 
Claude Arpels, who headed the American operations of the Van Cleef & Arpels jewelers, died on Monday in Switzerland, his family said today. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. Claude Arpels, who headed the American operations of the Van Cleef & Arpels jewelers, died on Monday in
Franco Autori, a conductor who worked for a time with the New York Philharmonic, died on Tuesday at his home in Tulsa, Okla., the Associated Press reported. He was 87 years old. Franco Autori, a conductor who worked for a time with the New York Philharmonic, died on Tuesday at
Jordan Olivar, former head football coach at Yale, Villanova and Loyola Marymount, died of lung cancer Wednesday at his home in Inglewood, Calif. He was 75 years old. Jordan Olivar, former head football coach at Yale, Villanova and Loyola Marymount, died of lung cancer Wednesd
Dr. Leon Olinger, a psychiatrist who was a former assistant director of Brooklyn State Hospital, died yesterday at his home in Wilmette, Ill,, where he had lived in retirement for the last four years. He was 82 years old. Dr. Leon Olinger, a psychiatrist who was a former assis
Lewis Veraldi, a retired Ford Motor Company executive who helped create the futuristic look of the Taurus and Mercury Sable, died of a heart attack Saturday at William Beaumont Hospital. He was 60 years old. Lewis Veraldi, a retired Ford Motor Company executive who helped crea
Lloyd H. Bailer, an economist and arbitrator, died at his home in Brentwood on Tuesday after suffering a series of strokes. He was 76 years old. Lloyd H. Bailer, an economist and arbitrator, died at his home in Brentwood on Tuesday after suffering a series of strokes. He was 7
Milton Sherman, an advertising executive and an authority on Shaker furniture, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 65 years old and lived in Armonk, N.Y. Milton Sherman, an advertising executive and an authority on Shaker furniture, died on Saturday at White Plai
Paul Seabury, a professor of political science who was an authority on American foreign policy and the author or co-author of a dozen books, died Wednesday at Doctors Hospital in Pinole, Calif. He was 67 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif. Paul Seabury, a professor of poli
Richard Samuel Miller, an ecologist and a professor emeritus at Yale University's School of Forestry, died last Friday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in North Branford, Conn. Richard Samuel Miller, an ecologist and a professor emeritus at Yale Univer
Seth Morgan, who won acclaim last spring for his first novel, ''Homeboy,'' which drew on his experiences in the drug culture of San Francisco and in prison, was killed early Wednesday morning when the motorcycle he was driving struck a dividing post on a bridge in New Orleans, the pol
Stuart Greenspan, a writer on art and a former magazine editor, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 44 years old, and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, said his father, Nathan. A familiar figure in the auction world, Mr. Greenspan was editor in chief of the magazine Art 
Thomas Murton, an outspoken advocate of prison reform who attracted national attention in 1968 when he accused Arkansas trusties and guards of abusing convicts, died on Oct. 10 at the Veterans Afffairs Medical Center in Oklahoma City. He was 62 years old. Thomas Murton, an out
Thomas R. Adam, a professor of political science at New York University from 1945 until he retired in 1968, died on Saturday at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. He was 90 years old and had lived at the Mosholu Parkway Nursing Home in the Bronx for three years. Thomas R. Ada
Vladimir B. Adzemovic, a banker and president of the lay committee of the Serbian Orthodox Cathedral of St. Sava on West 26th Street in Manhattan, died on Monday at his home on Staten Island. He was 63 years old. Vladimir B. Adzemovic, a banker and president of the lay committ
Dr. Wilhelm Magnus, who retired as a professor at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University in 1973, died on Monday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 83 years old. Dr. Wilhelm Magnus, who retired as a professor at the Courant Institute of Mat
Alexander E. Barkan, retired political director of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, died Thursday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 81 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Alexander E. Barkan, retired political director of the A
Robert J. Hume, a certified public accountant who was an executive with Cowles Communications for almost 30 years, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 78 years. Robert J. Hume, a certified public accountant who was an executive with Cowles Communications for a
Fred Lloyd Hartley, who joined the small Union Oil Company in 1939 as a maintenance worker and built it into the multibillion-dollar Unocal Corporation while at the helm for a quarter of a century, died Friday at his home in a Los Angeles suburb. He was 73 years old. Fred Lloy
Irving H. Stolz, a lawyer and builder who engineered the merger of Bronx and Lebanon Hospitals to give the Bronx a central medical center, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. He was 87 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Irving H. Stolz, a lawyer
Joel McCrea, a tall, trim, ruggedly handsome actor who radiated a casual, amiable image in 80 movies, many of them westerns, died yesterday of pulmonary complications at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old. Joel McCrea,
Robert I. Hume, a certified public accountant who was an executive with Cowles Communications for almost 30 years, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 78 years. Robert I. Hume, a certified public accountant who was an executive with Cowles Communications for a
 Irving H. Stolz, a lawyer and builder who engineered the merger of Bronx and Lebanon Hospitals to give the Bronx a central medical center, died on Saturday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. He was 87 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. A spokeswoman for the Hebrew 
 Lew Worsham, winner of the 1947 United States Open golf championship, died Friday after a long illness. He was 73 years old. Mr. Worsham's most notable victory was his triumph over Sam Snead in an 18-hole playoff for the Open championship. He shot a 69 to win by a single shot at the
 Tom Carvel, the former chairman of the Carvel chain of 700 ice-cream stores, whose gravel-voiced narration on television and radio commercials for his products made him familiar to millions, was found dead yesterday morning at his home in Pine Plains, N.Y. He was 84 years old and also lived
 Dr. William Dock, a cardiologist whose views of medical treatment were sometimes at odds with accepted practice, died on Wednesday on Guadaloupe, where he had lived for the last year. He was 91 years old and had lived for the previous decade in Paris. Dr. Dock, who was associated fo
 Edward H. Kimball, a retired vice president of Parade magazine, died on Friday at Lawwrence Memorial Hospital in Kansas. He was 85 years old and lived in Lawrence. His family said he died of a perforated ulcer. Mr. Kimball, a native of Lawrence, was a graduate of the Univers
 Frank Sinkwich, the University of Georgia football player who won the 1942 Heisman Trophy, died today in his home here after a long illness. He was 70 years old. Mr. Sinkwich became the first player from the Southeastern Conference to win the Heisman, an award that is given annually
 Jules Gueron, a leading French nuclear scientist, died on Oct. 11 in Paris, where he lived. He was 83 years old. He died of a heart attack while walking on a street, his son, Henri, said. A 1935 graduate of the University of Paris-Sorbonne, Dr. Gueron was a professor at the 
 The Rev. Leonard P. Mahoney, a Jesuit priest who was a professor of modern European history and international affairs at Boston College, died last Tuesday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 74 years old and lived in Cambridge. He died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for t
 Lester Cowan, an independent film producer in the 1930's and 40's whose credits ranged from comedies and gangster movies to dramas about World War II, died in his sleep on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. He apparently died of a heart attack, his family said.   
 Raymond Philip Morris, librarian emeritus of Yale Divinity School, died on Sunday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 86 years old and had lived in Cleveland since 1987. Mr. Morris died of a heart attack, a family spokesman said. Mr. Morris joined Yale in 1931 and se
 Thomas Francis Devine, vice chairman, managing director and chief administrative officer of Allen & Company Inc., New York investment bankers, died on Friday at his home in Wilton, Conn. He was 46 years old. Mr. Devine died of a brain tumor, a spokesman for the family said. 
 Zenon C. R. Hansen, chairman, president and chief executive of Mack Trucks Inc. in the 1960's and 1970's, died Friday at his home in Sebring, Fla. He was 81 years old. A spokeswoman for the family said he died of leukemia. Mr. Hansen, who is credited with turning Allentown, 
 Barney Nagler, who for almost 40 years wrote a newspaper column devoted mainly to boxing and thoroughbred racing, died of pneumonia Monday night at the CentraState Medical Center in Freehold, N.J. Mr. Nagler, who lived in Manalapan, N.J., was 78 years old. He began writing his colum
 Charles J. Timmes, a retired Army major general who served in World War II, South Korea and South Vietnam and was an expert on counterinsurgency tactics, died Saturday at Fairfax Hospital in Falls Church, Va. He was 83 years old and lived in Falls Church. His son, Col. Thomas Timmes
 Deleon Walsh, a manufacturer of packaging, died on Sunday at While Plains Hospital Center. He was 84 years old and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y. He died of pneumonia, his son-in-law, Stephen B. Wilson, said. Mr. Walsh, a Cornell University graduate, worked for several packaging 
 Harold Loren, a leader in international camping, died on Sunday at White Plains Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y. He died after a stroke, his family said. He was the founder of the Lincoln Farm Camp in Roscoe, N.Y., where teen-agers developed skills th
 Henry Hadad, a retired lingerie manufacturer, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 96 years old. Mr. Hadad was born in Syria and came to the United States as a child. He started his own underwear business in Manhattan in the 1920's. It became the Collegiate Manufacturing C
 Louis Althusser, a French Communist philosopher who was a prominent critic of French and Soviet Communism in the 1970's, died Monday of heart failure in a geriatric center outside Paris. He was 72 years old. Mr. Althusser had taught for many years at the prestigious Ecole Normale Su
 Zephania Lekoane Mothopeng, the president of the Pan-Africanist Congress, which advocates the return of South Africa to its indigenous inhabitants, died today in Johannesburg Hospital after a long struggle with chest and lung cancer complicated by pneumonia. He was 77 years old. Mr.
 The Rev. Blahoslav S. Hruby, a Presbyterian minister who headed a human-rights organization that monitors Eastern European countries, died on Monday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of congestive heart failure, his wife
 John J. Tullman, a lawyer who was an expert in medical malpractice litigation, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old. A 1924 graduate of New York University Law School, Mr. Tullman was an early leader in seeking compensation for victims of negligence by doctor
 Michael Goldsmith, an Associated Press foreign correspondent for 45 years, died today at a hospital in southern France. He was 68 years old. His doctor at the Grasse hospital said the cause of death was a stomach hemorrhage. Mr. Goldsmith suffered a stroke Oct. 1 and was hospitalize
 Norman W. Zaubler, a real-estate developer, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He was 86 years old and lived in Miami Beach. Mr. Zaubler died of congestive heart failure, his daughter, Jolie Kelter of Manhattan, said. Mr. Zaubler, who built apartment hous
 Peter Salm, professor emeritus of literature and German at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, died Sunday at University Hospitals in Clevland. He was 71 years old and lived in Cleveland Heights. He died after a heart attack, the university said. Dr. Salm was a spe
 S. Gene Odle, provost emeritus of Alfred (N.Y.) University, died yesterday at St. James Mercy Hospital in Hornell, N.Y., a university spokeswoman said. He was 64 years old and lived in Alfred. The cause of his death was not disclosed. Dr. Odle joined the nonsectarian univers
 Thomas Williams, an award-winning novelist and an English professor at the University of New Hampshire, died on Tuesday at Wentworth-Douglass Hospital in Dover, N.H. He was 63 years old and lived in Durham, N.H. He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the Pelczar Funeral Home i
 William L. Wilson, a retired vice president of the C.I.T. Financial Corporation in New York and a former mayor of Princeton, N.J., died on Monday at the Medical Center of Princeton. He was 80 years old and lived in Princeton Township. He died of a heart attack, his wife, Edna, said.
 Berthold Lubetkin, an architect who played a leading role in founding the Modernist school in Britain in the 1930's, died on Tuesday in Bristol, England. He was 88 years old. No cause of death was given. The son of an industrialist, he was born in Tblisi, Georgia. In 1922 he
 Dr. Bruno A. Marangoni, an internist and cardiologist, died on Tuesday at the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 83 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale. He died of cancer of the prostate, a family spokeswoman said. He began practicing in Manhattan after graduat
 Fredric H. Bainnson, a landscape architect, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 51 years old and lived in Jersey City. He died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. Bainnson was co-founder of the Manhattan-based firm of Abel, Bainnson & Associ
 John F. Davis, a former deputy executive director of the Department of City Planning and former executive editor of The New York Amsterdam News, died on Monday at St. Clare's Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Harlem. He died of lung cancer, his sister, Mildred Booker of New
 Jean Goldwurm, a film distributor who imported such neorealist classics as "Open City," "Forbidden Games" and "Two Cents Worth of Hope" from Europe after World War II, died in Lenox Hill Hospital yesterday. He was 97 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gordon Oppenheimer, a lawyer and
 Paul Wiesenfeld, an American realist painter who specialized in portraits and finely detailed interiors, died on Saturday in a hospital in Munich, Germany. He was 48 years old and lived in Lanshut, a small town outside Munich. He died of cancer, his son, Daniel, said. Mr. Wi
 Peter Gurtler, the owner of Vienna's most famous hotel and former husband of a former American Ambassador to Austria, Helene Von Damm, committed suicide on Wednesday, the police reported. He was 44 years old Mr. Gurtler shot himself to death in his hunting lodge in Pernitz, 30 miles
 Robin Chu, a sociologist and a member of Parliament in Taiwan, died on Wednesday at the Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Taipei, customarily spending six months of the year in each city. He died of stomach cancer, his son, Frankl
 Sam Dolgoff, one of the few surviving members of the Industrial Workers of the World, a radical labor organization, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. He died of congestive heart failure, a family spokesman said. Mr. Dolgoff, who was born in Rus
 Rabbi Samuel Horowitz, retired spiritual leader of Temple Zion in Long Beach, L.I., died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old. He died of a heart attack, his son, Rabbi Harold Horowitz of Brooklyn, said. Rabbi Samuel Horowitz was associated with the Orthod
 Saul Rosen, a manufacturer, died on Oct. 15 at Chilton Memorial Hospital in Pompton Plains, N.J. He was 84 years old and lived in Wayne, N.J. He died of a heart attack, a family spokesman said. Mr. Rosen, who came to the United States from Russia, worked in the silk mills of
 Brother Celestine George Burke, an educator who was a member of the Brothers of the Christian Schools for 63 years, died on Thursday at Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived at the Christian Brothers Academy in Lincroft. He died of a stroke, a spok
 Rabbi Daniel I. Kamesar, regional director of Mazon: A Jewish Response to Hunger, collapsed and died on Wednesday while waiting for a train in Philadelphia. He was 35 years old and was commuting from his home in Philadelphia to his office in Manhattan. The cause of death has not bee
 George Nordmeyer, retired chairman of the Hunter College German department, died on Tuesday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 78 years old He died of colon cancer, his daughter, Alice, said. He joined the staff of Hunter as chairman of the department in 1965 and remain
 Johnny Sanders, general manager of the San Diego Chargers of the National Football League from 1976 to 1987, died today at Grossmont Hospital in La Mesa, Calif., after apparently suffering heart failure, said George Dickason, a deputy coroner. Mr. Sanders was 68 years old. Mr. Sande
 Joseph E. Johnson, a former president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, died of pneumonia on Wednesday at Virginia Baptist Hospital in Lynchburg, Va. He was 84 years old and lived in Lynchburg. Mr. Johnson's long career in international affairs included service in t
 Leo Casagrande, a Harvard professor and civil engineer who specialized in soil mechanics and foundation engineering, died Thursday at Meadow Green Nursing Center in Waltham, Mass. He was 87 years old and lived in Winchester, Mass. He died of pneumonia and Parkinson's disease, a fune
 Mel A. Dauernheim, a horticulturist, died on Oct. 16 at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I. He was 85 years old and lived in West Babylon, L.I. Mr. Dauernheim died of congestive heart failure, said his wife, Eleanor. In 1930 Mr. Dauernheim left his architectual studi
 Michael Cheilik, associate professor of history at Lehman College, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, Jacob Judd, chairman of the history department, said. Dr. Cheilik joined the faculty at Hunter College, a
 Major (Mule) Holley, one of the greatest bassists in jazz, died Thursday at the home of a friend in Maplewood, N.J. He was 66 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his brother Oscar, of Detroit. Mr. Holley was a large man with a large sound. His bass playing, rooted in 
 William S. Paley, who personified the power, glamour, allure and influence of CBS Inc., the communications empire he built, died last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old. His death was believed to have been caused by a heart attack related to pneumonia, said a CBS In
 Breandan O hEithir, a social critic and author of the first Irish-language novel to lead the country's best-seller list, died on Friday. He was 60 years old. Mr. O hEithir, who divided his time between Dublin and Paris, was admitted to St. Vincent's Hospital last week and was diagno
 Elliott Roosevelt, a World War II Air Corps general, a breeder of Arabian horses and an author whose works included a series of mystery novels that cast his mother, the First Lady, as an amateur detective, died yesterday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 80 years old. Mr. Roos
 William S. Paley, who personified the power, glamour, allure and influence of CBS Inc., the communications empire he built, died Friday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old. His death was believed to have been caused by a heart attack related to pneumonia, said a CBS 
 Xavier Cugat, the popular Spanish-born bandleader who introduced many Latin American rhythms to North American audiences, died of heart failure yesterday at the Quiron Clinic in Barcelona, Spain, his doctors said in a statement issued there. He was 90 years old. Mr. Cugat popularize
 Maurice B. Hexter, a leader in social work for more than half a century before he retired in 1967 as executive vice president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99 years old. In addition to raising fun
 Merle C. Worster, a former broadcasting executive and mayor of Upper Saddle River, N.J., died in his sleep on Saturday at his home in Upper Saddle River. He was 74 years old. He died of bone cancer, family members said. Mr. Worster spent more than four decades in broadcastin
 Ugo Tognazzi, a onetime bookkeeper who became one of Italy's leading comic actors and achieved international fame in the film "La Cage aux Folles," died on Saturday. He was 68 years old. The Italian news agency ANSA said Mr. Tognazzi suffered a cerebral hemorrhage on Saturday mornin
 Bennie Oosterbaan, a three-sport varsity star and the coach of the last University of Michigan football team to finish with the No. 1 national ranking, died Thursday night. He was 84 years old and had been living in an Ann Arbor nursing home after suffering a broken hip several weeks ago.  
 David G. Scanlon, a retired professor of international education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Thursday at Boston University Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Orleans, Mass. He died of cancer, said a spokesman for the Nicherson Funeral Home. Dr
 Jacques Demy, the French master of musical comedies best known for his 1963 film "Les Parapluies de Cherbourg" (' 'The Umbrellas of Cherbourg' '), died on Saturday. He was 59 years old. He died of a brain hemorrhage brought on by leukemia, associates said Sunday. Mr. Demy br
 The Rev. Dr. John Henderson Powell Jr., a retired minister of the Dutch Reformed Church in New York, died yesterday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old. He died of a heart attack after a long illness, his daughter, Diana Powell Ward of Manhattan, said. Dr. Po
 Joseph Devorkin, a retired clothing manufacturer, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 97 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart failure, a family spokesman said. Mr. Devorkin served in the Navy in World War I and then opened a men's haberd
 Nobutaka Shikanai, the founder of one of Japan's largest media conglomerates and the creator of its most famous art museum, died Sunday of liver failure, his company, the Fujisankei Communications Group, said today. He was 78 years old. Mr. Shikanai was one of a handful of entrepren
 Raymond D. Hodge, a retired civil engineer who supervised projects in many parts of the world, died Saturday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 68 years old and lived in Potomac, Md. He died of complications of rheumatoid arthritis, his son Raymond Jr. of Washington said.     
 Raymond DiSalvo, an atomic safety specialist who was part of the team that sought to control damage at the Three Mile Island plant in Pennsylvania in 1979, died Friday at the Ohio State University Hospital in Columbus. He was 44 years old and lived in Upper Arlington, Ohio. His moth
 Shin Hasegawa, who was named Justice Minister in February and stepped down months later because of illness, died of heart failure on Sunday. He was 71 years old. Mr. Hasegawa had been hospitalized since Sept. 3, when he collapsed before an Imperial Palace ceremony for a new Supreme 
 Thomas M. Beggs, director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Collection of Fine Arts from 1948 to 1964, died on Thursday at his home in McLean, Va.. He was 91 years old. He died of complications from pneumonia, his family said. As administrator of the Smithsonian's pe
 William French Smith, who served first as Ronald Reagan's personal lawyer in California and then accompanied him to Washington as his first Attorney General, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 73 years old. A spokeswoman for the hospital of the University of Southern California, 
 William P. Slichter, a former executive director at A.T.&T. Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., whose research contributed to the development of the semiconductor, died on Thursday at his home in Chatham, N.J. He was 68 years old. He died of cancer, a company spokesman said.    
 Woodrow Bradley Seals, a senior United States district judge who ruled in 1980 that it was unconstitutional to deny children of illegal immigrants access to free public education, died Saturday after open-heart surgery. He was 72 years old. His ruling, along with a similar one by Fe
 Benson B. Sloan Jr., a retired stockbroker, died on Monday at Park View Hospital in Nashville. He was 75 years old and lived in Tequesta, Fla. He died of heart failure, his son, Benson B. 3d, of Nashville, said. Mr. Sloan was a graduate of the Groton School and a 1937 gradua
 Dilworth Walker, a retired executive of Lever Brothers, died last Thursday at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 72 years old, and his family said death was apparently caused by a heart attack. Mr. Walker was with Lever Brothers from 1964 until he retired in 1983 as director of d
 George W. Shine, a retired vice president of Avon Products and an official in an organization pressing for information about soldiers missing in Vietnam, died on Monday at his home in Southbury, Conn.  He was 80 years old. He died of cancer, his wife, Helen, said. Mr. Shine 
 Herbert Brodkin, a television producer celebrated for his dramas on social issues on such series as "Playhouse 90" and "The Defenders," died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 77 years old and had homes in Manhattan; Old Lyme, Conn., and Saltaire, on Fire Island. He died of a
 Moses H. Hoenig, a lawyer and founding member and honorary president of the National Council of Young Israel, died yesterday at his home in Long Beach, L.I. He was 92 years old. Mr. Hoenig died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Hoenig helped start the Young Isr
 Mowton LeCompte Waring, who retired as an executive vice president of Consolidated Edison in 1968 after almost 35 years with the utility, died on Sunday at his home in Irvington, Va. He was 84 years old. He died of renal failure, his family said. Mr. Waring, who was known by
 Philip Lukin, an advertising executive in New York for four decades, died in his sleep on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 87 years old. Mr. Lukin, who was born in Manhattan and graduated from Brown University, specialized in liquor advertising for most of his career. I
 Dr. Robert Hamilton Alway, a pediatrician and former dean of the Stanford University School of Medicine, which he helped to lead to national prominence, died Friday at his home in Oak Harbor, Wash. He was 77 years old. He died of complications of heart disease, a spokesman for the m
