 George Heard Hamilton, an authority on modern art who trained art historians and museum curators, died on Monday at a nursing home in Williamstown, Mass., his son, Richard, said. He was 93. Mr. Hamilton taught at Yale and at Williams College and wrote a number of important books on 
 Thomas F. Willers, a former top executive of Hooker Chemical and Occidental Petroleum and of Champion International, the paper company, died on March 24 at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 84. The cause was respiratory failure, the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home announced.  
 Carl Bakal, a writer, editor and public relations man who was author of an early warning about the proliferation of firearms in the United States, died on March 18 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived on the Upper West Side and in East Chatham, N.Y. His death wa
 Murray J. Gart, the editor of The Washington Star when it ceased publication in 1981, died on Wednesday at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 79. The cause was complications of heart surgery, said his wife, Jeanne. Mr. Gart became editor of the Star in 1978, shortly after
 Denny Dent, a performance artist who frenetically splashed, dabbed and spilled his way to quirky celebrity by lighting into six-foot-high canvases with three paintbrushes in each hand to produce portraits of famous people -- sometimes working on an upside-down canvas that he would then righ
 Joel Feinberg, a political and social philosopher who did groundbreaking work in the fields of individual rights and the authority of the state, died March 29 at a nursing home in Tucson. He was 77 and lived in Tucson. The cause of death was complications of Parkinson's disease, sai
 John Taras, an internationally known American choreographer and balletmaster associated chiefly with New York City Ballet but also with American Ballet Theater and companies abroad, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. His death was reported by Delia Peters, a friend 
 Richard L. Gelb, the former chief executive of Bristol-Myers Squibb and a former director of The New York Times Company, died yesterday morning at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, his wife, Phyllis, said. He was 79 years old and lived on the Upper East Side. As c
 Col. Aaron Bank, who was known as ''the father of Special Forces'' for his role in creating the Army's unconventional-warfare units that became known as the Green Berets, died Thursday at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 101. His death was announced by the Army's Special Operat
 John B. Evans, a former senior executive at the News Corporation, died on March 28 at his home in Annandale, N.J. He was 66. The cause was congestive heart failure, Victoria Mayer, a friend, said. Mr. Evans joined the News Corporation in 1977, when Rupert Murdoch, who contro
 Alan Levy, an American journalist, author and editor in chief of The Prague Post, died in a Prague hospital on Friday. He was 72. The cause was cancer, the paper, an English-language weekly, reported. Mr. Levy was co-founder of The Post in 1991 and had been editor in chief and a wee
 Frank A. Sieverts, a specialist in refugee and relief issues at the State Department for 25 years and later as an executive in the Washington office of the International Committee of the Red Cross, died here last Wednesday. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue
 George Bamberger, who turned out a host of 20-game winners as pitching coach of the Baltimore Orioles for a decade and later managed the Milwaukee Brewers and the Mets, died Sunday at his home in North Redington Beach, Fla. He was 80. He had been treated for cancer, but the cause of
 Dr. H. Sherwood Lawrence, a pioneering immunologist who helped found the branch of biology that explores the function of lymphocytes, a type of white cell in blood and lymph nodes, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 87. His death was announced by officials of New York University, w
 Keith Cylar, an entrepreneur among AIDS activists and co-founder of Housing Works, which helps homeless New Yorkers living with AIDS, was found dead in his apartment in the East Village on Monday. He was 45. The immediate cause of death was cardioarrhythmia, according to Housing Wor
 Murray Illson, a retired reporter for The New York Times who covered police news, education and a variety of general New York City topics, often with a wry inflection, died on Tuesday at a retirement community in Louisville, Colo. He was 91. His death was reported by his son John, o
 Gene Klavan, who first as half of the radio show ''Klavan and Finch'' and then as a solo performer, brought slicing wit, a knack for voices and peppery irreverence to New York morning radio audiences for 25 years, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and 
 Jack Smith, a former Washington-based correspondent for ABC News who covered world events before helping that network shape its technology beat, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 58 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. The cause was cancer, ABC News said.      
 Victor Argo, a New York character actor who played dozens of heavies, hoodlums and hardened detectives in movies by directors like Martin Scorsese, Abel Ferrara and Jim Jarmusch, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Lilli
 Jeremiah Gumbs, a hotel keeper who became a hero in Anguilla when that sliver of sand upended Britain's postcolonial design for the Caribbean islands known as the Lesser Antilles, died there on Thursday, his family announced. He was 91. Mr. Gumbs, an institution on an island that to
 René Gruau, an Italian-born artist who made his name in Paris and New York as an illustrator for fashion houses, women's magazines, nightclubs and ballet companies, died in Rome on March 31. He was 95. His death was reported by the Italian news service ANSA. Mr. Gruau, whos
 Stephen M. Peck, a Wall Street investment banker and philanthropist, died at Mount Sinai Medical Center on March 30. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after a heart procedure, said his wife, Judith Stern Peck. Mr. Peck served on the boards of Moun
 Ward Botsford, a producer of classical and spoken recordings, died on April 1 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Diana. Mr. Botsford was a champion of unusual repertory and forgot
 Dr. Vernon R. Young, a biochemist whose research into human nutrition and the body's creation of protein helped prompt federal authorities to rethink health guidelines and publish higher daily requirements for cereal and other foods, died on March 30 in Boston. He was 66 and lived in Welles
 Joseph J. Zimmermann Jr., who invented one of the first commercially successful answering machines, ancestor of sleeker later generations, died March 31 in Brookfield, Wis. He was 92. Sister Ann Christine, his friend and caregiver, announced his death. He lived in Elm Grove, Wis.   
 Gilbert Kerlin, who worked for 50 years to preserve the natural landscape and residential character of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, died at his home there on Friday, said his daughter, Sarah Gray Gund. He was 94. Riverdale, located along the Hudson River on the border of West
 John B. Whyte, a former magazine model whose shrewd real estate investments and innate sense of style made him an arbiter of the social scene in Fire Island Pines, N.Y., one of the largest gay vacation communities on the East Coast, died on March 22 at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 
 John S. Crowley, a New York executive who was for a short time chairman of Channel 13 and ushered it through a time of financial distress, died on March 31 at the Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was complications from pneumonia and Parkinson's d
 Philippe Jutras, a United States Army veteran of the Normandy campaign who paid tribute to the American paratroopers of D-Day for the past three decades as curator of the Airborne Museum in Ste.-Mère-Église, the first French town liberated in World War II, died April 4 at a hospital in Va
 Sakip Sabanci, a leading philanthropist in Turkey and one of its most prominent businessmen as head of the conglomerate Sabanci Holding, died here on Saturday. He was 71. The cause was kidney cancer that had spread to his liver, according to doctors at the American Hospital, where h
 Stanley de Jongh Osborne, a New York investment banker, a presidential adviser on aviation and honorary chairman of New York Presbyterian Hospital, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 99. His family announced his death. Mr. Osborne joined L
 Ernest Smith, an authority on jazz music and dance, died on Thursday in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Bolton Landing, N.Y. The cause was lymphoma, said Marlene Charnizon, his companion. Mr. Smith, who was known as Ernie, developed an interest in jazz during his teens in 
 Neil Upmeyer, a widely respected public-interest researcher in New Jersey who, as head of the Center for Analysis of Public Issues tackled subjects like campaign finance, lobbying and the environment, died on Friday at his home in Lambertville, N.J. He was 57. The cause was cancer, 
 Ed Gregory Jr., an old-time carnival operator who befriended celebrities and staged shows at the White House but who had myriad legal troubles, including a federal bank-fraud conviction for which he and his wife were pardoned in 2000 by President Bill Clinton, died on Sunday at his home in 
 Hy Gotkin, a 5-foot-8 guard who helped the St. John's University basketball team win National Invitation Tournament titles in 1943 and 1944, died Sunday night at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 81. The cause was heart and kidney failure, and he had Alzheimer's disease, his son 
 Robert J. Harth was not a demonstrative man, and a memorial in his honor yesterday at Carnegie Hall, where he was executive and artistic director, was similarly restrained. Just four people spoke: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Carnegie Hall; Ara Guzel
 Henry Viscardi Jr., who became a leader in integrating disabled people -- like himself -- into America's work force, died on Tuesday in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 91. His death, at Roslyn Hospital, was announced by his wife, Lucile. He lived in Great Neck, N.Y. Starting in World Wa
 Joseph Iadone, an early-music specialist and recording artist who was among the first in postwar America to popularize the lute, died on March 23 in New Haven. He was 89. Mr. Iadone died at a nursing home, where he lived, said his former wife, Susan Iadone. Mr. Iadone was a 
 Phil Sokolof, a Nebraska industrialist whose heart attack turned him into a national evangelist of a low-cholesterol diet, died on Thursday in Omaha. He was 82. His death was announced by the National Heart Savers Association, of which he was the founder and president and through wh
 John C. Messerschmitt, who as an executive of Royal Philips Electronics helped introduce optical disc technology, including the videodisc and the CD-ROM, to the American market, died on April 8 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was pancreat
 Philip A. Fisher, who wrote one of the first investment books to appear on the New York Times best-seller list, ''Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits,'' a 1958 guide to growth-stock investing that the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett has cited as a major influence on his career, died a
 David Clarke, a veteran actor on Broadway and in the movies, died on Sunday at a hospice in Arlington, Va., his daughter K. C. Ligon said. He was 95 and lived in Fairfax, Va. Mr. Clarke was a familiar face in many film noir and action movies from the 1940's through the 60's, and app
 James Richard Cantalupo, an accountant who planted the arches of McDonald's on foreign soil before being called out of retirement to help the company at home as chairman and chief executive, died unexpectedly yesterday in Orlando, Fla. He was 60 and lived in Oak Brook, Ill., outside Chicago
 Norris D. McWhirter, one of the founders of Guinness World Records, the ubiquitous reference work that keeps track of superlatives both serious and frivolous, from sports records and tall buildings to the oldest licensed driver (104) and the farthest a person has walked with a milk bottle b
 Frank Schiff, the third generation of a New York family to run a prominent old-line insurance brokerage business before global conglomerates became dominant, died on April 8 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Schiff died a
 Dr. Myron Wegman, the longtime author of an influential annual report on the nation's vital statistics and a leading public health educator, died on April 14 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 95. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said the University of Michigan School of Pub
 John Joseph Ryan, formerly a Democratic assemblyman from Brooklyn and a judge in the criminal and claims courts, died on April 16 at a nursing home in Hinsdale, Ill. He was 92 and formerly a resident of Brooklyn as well as Breezy Point, N.Y., and Westfield, N.J. His death was announ
 Leo C. O'Neill, who guided Standard & Poor's as it expanded from an American bond rating firm into an international concern whose opinion could be critical to the terms on which companies and governments could borrow money, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He 
 The former New York State assemblyman Lucio F. Russo and his wife, Tina I. Russo, were killed on Tuesday in an automobile accident near their winter home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 91 and she 90. The couple, who were residents of Todt Hill, Staten Island, had been married for 65 
 Norton Mockridge, a jack-of-all-trades New York newspaper man, humorist, columnist and author, died on April 18 in San Antonio, where he lived. He was 88. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter, Nancy Minor. As a columnist, first for The World-Telegram from 1963 to 1966,
 Peter S. Prescott, an author and a longtime book critic for Newsweek, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center. He was 68. The cause was liver disease complicated by diabetes, his wife, Anne, said. Mr. Prescott's work extended beyond literar
 Thomas J. Corbally, an American businessman whose exquisitely cultivated aura of mystery and power first materialized in Britain in 1963 when he surfaced as a player in the drama of spies, prostitutes and politicians that was the Profumo scandal, died on April 15 in his Manhattan apartment.
 Alex Madonna, a businessman and real estate developer who created the Madonna Inn, a fantasy-theme hotel of outrageous excess and enduring California charm, died on Thursday at his home in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 85. The cause was believed to be a heart attack, said his daugh
 Harry Babbitt, a featured singer of the big band era who performed with Kay Kyser's band in the late 1930's and 40's, died April 9 at a nursing home in Aliso Viejo, Calif. He was 90. His death was announced by his son Christopher. The Kyser band featured serious swing arrang
 Jim Vaill, who built the bucolic Lime Rock Park track, a mecca for sports-car racing in an otherwise quiet valley in northwestern Connecticut, died Tuesday in Sharon, Conn. He was 83. The cause was emphysema, according to his daughter, Carol Yilmaz. Always too short and rudi
 Philip Hamburger, a writer for The New Yorker for more than six decades whose meticulously calibrated inflections -- sober, droll and everything in between -- helped create and nurture the magazine's reputation for urbanity, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He wa
 Claude (Fiddler) Williams, who began swinging on string instruments before the word jazz was commonly used, went on to become Count Basie's first recorded guitarist and continued playing violin with other jazz greats into his 90's, died on Sunday in Kansas City. He was 96. The cause
 Hubert Selby Jr., the Brooklyn-born ex-merchant mariner who turned to drugs and to writing after cheating death and created a lasting vision of urban hell in his novel ''Last Exit to Brooklyn,'' died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75. The cause was chronic pulmonary di
 Thom Gunn, a transplanted British poet identified with the San Francisco scene and the California liberated style, died on Sunday night at his home in San Francisco, his adopted hometown. He was 74. His death was announced by his companion of 52 years, Mike Kitay. Acclaimed 
 Dr. John Maynard Smith, an evolutionary biologist who revolutionized the study of animal behavior by applying the principles of game theory, died on April 19 at his home in Sussex, England. He was 84. His work helped to answer a wide variety of perplexing questions, explaining, for 
 Thomas Winner, a member of the Czech underground who escaped Nazism in 1939 as one of 20 East European students to receive full scholarships to Harvard, died on April 20 in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. A multilingual scholar and an expert on Russian literature, Dr. Winner was 86.      
 Dr. John W. Kirklin, a cardiovascular surgeon whose refinements of the heart-lung machine in the 1950's helped make open heart surgery safer and more predictable, died on April 21 at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 86. The cause was complications after a fall, said his son, Dr. 
