Ernest DeMaio, a union organizer and former official of the United Electrical and Radio Workers Union, died of brain cancer on Thursday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 81 years old and lived in Norwalk. Ernest DeMaio, a union organizer and former official of the Uni
William Van Orden, a part-time sculptor who devoted the last part of his life to the defense and restoration of a statue of the actress Myrna Loy, died of cancer on March 18 at the Country Villa Westwood nursing home in West Los Angeles. He was 67 years old and lived in Venice, Calif.
Herman Levin, a longtime lay leader of the Jewish Reconstructionist movement and the president of the Acme Dress Form Corporation of Brooklyn for 35 years, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89 years old.  Mr. Levin was an early exponent of Reconstr
Dr. John W. Bromley, an orthopedist who was doing extensive research on use of the chemical collagen to avert surgery for debilitating back pain, died yesterday battling heart disease and cancer at St. Joseph's Hospital in Paterson, N.J. He was 62 years old and lived in North Haven, L
Robert Breen, whose 1952 co-production of ''Porgy and Bess'' was considered the first postwar United States-Soviet cultural exchange and who helped bring Federal financing to the performing arts, died of Alzheimer's disease on Saturday at Brooklyn Veterans Hospital. He was 80 years ol
Aldo Fabrizi, an Italian actor who sprang to international fame in the 1940's with his portrayal of a courageous priest executed by Nazis in Roberto Rossellini's film ''Open City,'' died on Monday. He was 84 years old. Aldo Fabrizi, an Italian actor who sprang to international
Charles A. Matthews, a former Essex County (N.J.) Freeholder, died on Thursday at the Hospital Center of Orange, N.J. He was 72 years old and lived in Newark. Charles A. Matthews, a former Essex County (N.J.) Freeholder, died on Thursday at the Hospital Center of Orange, N.J. 
Charles Spain Verral, a prolific author of books on adventure, sports and other subjects, died of complications from lung cancer on Sunday at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 85 years old and lived in Greenwich Village. Charles Spain Verral, a prolific author o
Dr. Robert H. Felix, a psychiatrist who was the first director of the National Institute of Mental Health, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Saturday at his home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 85 years old. Dr. Robert H. Felix, a psychiatrist who was the first directo
Edward L. Fireman, an astrophysicist who was an authority on the analysis of space debris, died of a heart attack on Thursday. He was 68 years old and lived in Newton, Mass. Edward L. Fireman, an astrophysicist who was an authority on the analysis of space debris, died of a he
Edward Owen Curran, former secretary and general counsel of the Nestle Foods Company, died after a long illness at a nursing home in Waterville, Me. He was 87 years old and lived in Waterville. Edward Owen Curran, former secretary and general counsel of the Nestle Foods Compan
Franco Renzulli, of the Phillips and Renzulli concert piano duo, died on March 26. He was 54 years old and lived in East Patchogue, L.I. Franco Renzulli, of the Phillips and Renzulli concert piano duo, died on March 26. He was 54 years old and lived in East Patchogue, L.I.    
Harry S. Robinson 2d, a retired executive of the United States Shoe Corporation, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Cincinnati. He was 69 years old. Harry S. Robinson 2d, a retired executive of the United States Shoe Corporation, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Ci
John T. Stiefel, a chemical engineer and former vice president of the Westinghouse Corporation of Pittsburgh, died of a brain tumor on Sunday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69 years old and also lived in Sarasota, Fla. John T. Stiefel, a chemical engineer and former vic
Martin W. Juster, a real-estate developer in Manhattan and Westchester in the 1950's and 60's, died of a heart attack on Saturday at the United Hospital in Harrison, N.Y. He was 71 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla. Martin W. Juster, a real-estate developer in Manhattan a
S. Zachary Swidler, a tax law specialist and a founder of Swidler & Swidler law firm, died of heart disease on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 72 years old and moved last year from Manhattan to Boynton Beach, Fla. S. Zachary Swidler, a tax law specialist and a founder of S
Walter Carl Kehm, a lawyer and conservationist, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 63 years old. Walter Carl Kehm, a lawyer and conservationist, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 63 years old. Mr. Kehm, a
Arthur A. Houghton Jr., a former president of Steuben Glass and an arts patron who had been chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the New York Philharmonic, died yesterday in Venice (Fla.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and maintained homes in Boca Grande
Bernard J. Miller, an advertising and public-relations executive who was founding publisher of Gentlemen's Quarterly magazine, died of liver cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old. Bernard J. Miller, an advertising and public-relations executive who was
Ernst Freese, a scientist who was an expert on chemical influences on reproduction and cancer, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Friday at the Frederick (Md.) Memorial Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Ernst Freese, a scientist who was an expert on chemic
Leo van Munching, the importer who brought Heineken beer to the United States, died of complications of Alzheimer's disease yesterday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Greenwich. Leo van Munching, the importer who brought Heineken beer to the Unit
Norman W. Patterson, an architect who designed the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died March 28 after suffering a heart attack at his home. He was 73 years old. Norman W. Patterson, an architect who designed the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, di
Thomas F. Daly, a retired partner in the New York law firm of Lord, Day & Lord, now known as Lord, Day & Lord, Barrett & Smith, died on Monday at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 87 years old and lived in Rumson, N.J. Thomas F. Daly, a retired partner in the New Yor
Cyrus Rowlett Smith, an aviation pioneer who was the first chief executive of American Airlines and built it over three decades into one of the world's leading airlines, died yesterday after a long illness in Ginger Cove Life Care Center, a retirement community in Annapolis, Md. He wa
Daniel L. Dyer, a sugar broker, died of a heart attack on Sunday while playing paddle tennis in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 73 years old and lived in Bronxville. Daniel L. Dyer, a sugar broker, died of a heart attack on Sunday while playing paddle tennis in Bronxville, N.Y. He was
Edgar G. E. Moss, a dog breeder and former publisher of The New Brunswick Spokesman, a weekly newspaper in New Jersey, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 83 years old and lived in Lebanon, N.J. Edgar G. E. Moss, a dog breeder a
Edward C. Oelsner, retired president of the United States Navigation Company, which represented steamship companies from around the world, died of leukemia on Monday at his home in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75 years old and also lived in Arlington, Vt. Edward C. Oelsner, r
Gordon S. Braislin, a former chairman of the Dime Savings Bank and a retired real-estate broker, died on Tuesday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 89 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Pawling, N.Y. Gordon S. Braislin, a former chairman of the Dime Savings Bank and a
Julius Granirer, a lawyer and the president of the Peninsula Hospital Center in Far Rockaway, Queens, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Rockaway Park, Queens. Julius Granirer, a lawyer and the president of the Pen
Michael J. Cody, an insurance executive, died on Tuesday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 61 years old. Michael J. Cody, an insurance executive, died on Tuesday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 61 years old. Mr. Cody was associated with Guy Carpenter & Co
Nguyen Lam, a former Deputy Prime Minister of Vietnam, died on Sunday, the official Hanoi radio reported. He was 68 years old. Nguyen Lam, a former Deputy Prime Minister of Vietnam, died on Sunday, the official Hanoi radio reported. He was 68 years old. Mr. Lam, also a
Otha D. Wearin, a former Congressman who became a writer of westerns and was elected to the Cowboy Hall of Fame, died of heart disease on Tuesday at a nursing home here. He was 87 years old. Otha D. Wearin, a former Congressman who became a writer of westerns and was elected t
Richard Aaron Levin, a former Federal prosecutor and an investment fund manager, died of stomach cancer on Tuesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in South Orange, N.J. Richard Aaron Levin, a former Federal prosecutor and an invest
Thomas Baird, a professor emeritus of fine arts at Trinity College in Hartford and a novelist, died of a heart attack in his car on March 28. He was 66 years old and lived in Hartford. Thomas Baird, a professor emeritus of fine arts at Trinity College in Hartford and a novelis
William T. Slater, senior vice presi-dent of the College Retirement Equities Fund of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, died of heart disease on Sunday at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 56 years old and lived in Matawan, N.J. 
Willie Musarurwa, a veteran journalist who spent 10 years in jail for his political activities, died on Tuesday, apparently of a heart attack, hospital officials said. He was 62 years old. Willie Musarurwa, a veteran journalist who spent 10 years in jail for his political acti
Baier Lustgarten, founder of the Lustgarten Nurseries, which had outlets at Shelter Island, L.I., Middle Island, L.I., Cream Ridge, N.J., and Miami, died of cancer on Wednesday at his home in Quogue, L.I. He was 82 years old. Baier Lustgarten, founder of the Lustgarten Nurseri
Bernard Glemser, the author of 30 books of fiction and nonfiction, died of emphysema Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Bernard Glemser, the author of 30 books of fiction and nonfiction, died of emphysema Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years ol
Edward E. Carlson, former chief executive of UAL Inc., the hotel and airline holding company, died of cancer on Tuesday at Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle. He was 78 years old and lived in Seattle. Edward E. Carlson, former chief executive of UAL Inc., the hotel and airline
Frank Tharin, a retired Marine Corps lieutenant general who as a pilot was a hero of the battle of Wake Island in 1941, died on March 21 in San Rafael, where he had been hospitalized for eight months. He was 79 years old and lived in Laguna Beach. Frank Tharin, a retired Marin
Joe Fox, the track and field coach at Fordham Prep for 30 years before his retirement in 1976, died Wednesday at New Rochelle Hospital after a brief illness. He was 79 years old. Joe Fox, the track and field coach at Fordham Prep for 30 years before his retirement in 1976, die
John Jacob Fisher 3d, a writer and editor in the child-development field, died of AIDS-related illnesses Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old. John Jacob Fisher 3d, a writer and editor in the child-development field, died of AIDS-related illnesses Tuesday at h
Morton J. Goldman, the founder and for 42 years the head counselor of Camp Takajo, a summer camp for 400 boys on Long Lake outside Naples, Me., died on Tuesday of heart disease at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78 years old. Morton J. Goldman, the founder and for 42 years 
Rafael Lorente de No, a researcher on the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system, died of cancer on Monday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 87 years old. Rafael Lorente de No, a researcher on the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system, died of cancer on Monday in Tucson, Ar
Raphael Marchand, an accountant and a retired bank officer, died of cardiovascular disease on Tuesday at Mount Vernon (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 95 years old and lived in Mount Vernon. Raphael Marchand, an accountant and a retired bank officer, died of cardiovascular disease on T
The Rev. Virgil C. Blum, a Jesuit priest and educator who was the founder and president of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, died at his home yesterday after a short illness. He was 76 years old and lived in the Jesuit residence at Marquette University in Milwaukee. 
Dr. Rowland Holbrook Smith Bedell, an ophthalmologist who formerly headed two medical units of the Federal Aviation Administration, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at his home in Bethesda. Md. He was 55 years old. Dr. Rowland Holbrook Smith Bedell, an ophthalmologist who f
Rabbi S. Gershon Levi, a former president of the Rabbinical Assembly and a former editor of the quarterly publication Conservative Judaism, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 81 years old. Rabbi Levi, an ardent Zionist who retired to Israel in the mid-197
Dr. Norman T. Crane, a New Jersey pediatrician for more than four decades, died of a blood clot on the brain on Thursday at a nursing home in Green Brook, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Plainfield, N.J. Dr. Norman T. Crane, a New Jersey pediatrician for more than four d
Harold Leland Stults, a retired partner in the law firm of Curtis, Morris & Safford in New York, died of cancer last Saturday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 84 years old. Harold Leland Stults, a retired partner in the law firm of Curtis, Morris & Safford in New York, 
Harry Goodridge, whose friendship with Andre the seal captivated a wide audience for 25 years, died Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 74 years old. Harry Goodridge, whose friendship with Andre the seal captivated a wide audience for 25 years, died Wednesday at a hospital he
Jay Johnson, a Manhattan gallery owner and scholar of American folk art, died of AIDS on Thursday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. He was 39 years old. Jay Johnson, a Manhattan gallery owner and scholar of American folk art, died of AIDS on Thursday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. 
Larry Lee, an award-winning television and radio producer and co-author of biographies of the writers Jack Kerouac and William Saroyan, died of AIDS on Thursday at Children's Hospital in San Francisco. He was 48 years old. Larry Lee, an award-winning television and radio produ
Lawrence F. Stayer, the executive director of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan. Lawrence F. Stayer, the executive director of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions, d
Louis Nelson, a jazz trombonist who was the last surviving musician from the original Preservation Hall bands, died Thursday from injuries suffered in a car accident 10 days earlier. He was 87 years old. Louis Nelson, a jazz trombonist who was the last surviving musician from 
Richard Gordon King, an educator who helped to develop college financial aid procedures, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital Center in Milford, N.H. He was 67 years old. Richard Gordon King, an educator who helped to develop college financial aid procedu
Richard M. Lubell, a former deputy superintendent of the New York City schools, died of a heart attack on Thursday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 84 years old. Richard M. Lubell, a former deputy superintendent of the New York City schools, died of a heart attack on Thur
Roderic Burwell Swenson, a former vice president of Citibank in Manhattan, died of kidney disease on Thursday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Ridgefield, Conn. Roderic Burwell Swenson, a former vice president of Citibank in Manhattan, died of kidn
William Boone Nauts, a retired banker, died of pneumonia on Thursday at the Wolcott Hall Nursing Home in Torrington, Conn. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. William Boone Nauts, a retired banker, died of pneumonia on Thursday at the Wolcott Hall Nursing Home in Torri
Alfred L. Morse, retired head of a chain of shoe stores, died of a heart attack Friday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 87 years old and lived in Cambridge. Alfred L. Morse, retired head of a chain of shoe stores, died of a heart attack Friday at Mount Aubur
Arthur B. Singer, a naturalist and painter whose watercolors of birds of the 50 states were affixed to letters mailed by hundreds of thousands of Americans in the 1980's, died of cancer of the esophagus yesterday at his home in Jericho, L.I. He was 72 years old. Arthur B. Sing
Dr. Henry Fleck, a former professor of medicine at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died of a heart attack on Friday at Montefiore Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Riverdale. Dr. Henry Fleck, a former professor of medicine at Albert Einstein College of Medi
Peter J. Wolfe, a senior vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died of a heart attack on Thursday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 53 years old and lived in Pompton Plains, N.J. Peter J. Wolfe, a senior vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died of a
Emerson Greenaway, who as director of the Philadelphia public library system from 1951 to 1969 supervised the construction of several branches and the introduction of bookmobiles, died yesterday after a brief illness at a nursing care center in New London, N.H., where he lived. He was
Frank Kozin, a professor of electrical engineering at the Polytechnic Institute of New York in Brooklyn who developed techniques of applied probability, died of a brain tumor on Thursday at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 60 years old and lived in Huntington, L.I.    
Ronald E. Evans, the Apollo 17 astronaut who exclaimed ''Hot diggety dog!'' upon taking his first steps in space in December 1972, died of a heart attack in his sleep on Saturday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 56 years old. Ronald E. Evans, the Apollo 17 astronaut who
Ryan White, the Indiana teen-ager who put the face of a child on AIDS and served as a leader for gaining greater understanding and compassion for those with the deadly disease, died today. He was 18 years old. Ryan White, the Indiana teen-ager who put the face of a child on AI
The Rev. W. Harold Flowers, a patriarch of the civil rights movement in Arkansas and its oldest practicing black lawyer, died Saturday at a hospital here. He was 78 years old and had been suffering from cancer. The Rev. W. Harold Flowers, a patriarch of the civil rights moveme
Dr. Howard D. Abramowitz, a sociology professor who in the 1950's sued to overturn an Army policy of giving draftees less than honorable discharges because of their political activities before induction, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 59 years ol
George Strawbridge Sr., a stockbroker, suffered a heart attack on April 3 at a business meeting at the Union League in Philadelphia and was pronounced dead at Thomas Jefferson Hospital there. He was 80 years old. George Strawbridge Sr., a stockbroker, suffered a heart attack o
Haruoki Inoue, a designer and builder of Japanese gardens on scores of estates in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, died of pancreatic cancer on Sunday at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. He was 61 years old. Haruoki Inoue, a designer and builder of Japanese gardens on
Herman J. Jessor, an architect who helped build more than 40,000 units of cooperative housing in New York City, died Sunday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Hospital. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan. Herman J. Jessor, an architect who helped build more tha
Dr. James G. E. Smith, a social anthropologist and curator at the Museum of the American Indian-Heye Foundation, died of brain cancer on April 2 at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Dr. James G. E. Smith, a social anth
John Henry Faulk, a Southern humorist and raconteur whose successful libel suit against Aware Inc. in 1962 broke the stranglehold of McCarthy-era blacklisters on the entertainment industry, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 76 years old. John Henry Fa
Leslie Combs 2d, the founder of Spendthrift Farm and a leading owner and breeder of thoroughbred horses, died of cancer Saturday at the University of Kentucky Medical Center in Lexington, Ky. He was 88 years old. Leslie Combs 2d, the founder of Spendthrift Farm and a leading o
Morton Sunshine, the former executive director of Variety Clubs International and a show-business impresario, died of cancer yesterday at the Hospice of Palm Beach County in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 years old. Morton Sunshine, the former executive director of Variety Cl
Wendell G. Earle, professor emeritus of marketing at Cornell University, died of cancer Tuesday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 66 years old and lived in Ithaca. Wendell G. Earle, professor emeritus of marketing at Cornell University, died of cancer Tuesd
Daniel G. Aldrich Jr., a chemist who became the first chancellor of the Irvine campus in a 50-year career with the University of California, died of colon cancer on Monday at the Irvine Medical Center. He was 71 years old. Daniel G. Aldrich Jr., a chemist who became the first 
David C. Cook 3d, retired chairman of the D. C. Cook Publishing Company in Elgin, Ill., an international publisher of religious books and educational materials, died Friday at Humana Hospital in Hoffman Estates, a suburb of Chicago. He was 77 years old and lived in Bartlett, Ill.     
David M. Robb, an art historian and a teacher, died on Monday at his home in Scituate, Mass. He was 86 years old. David M. Robb, an art historian and a teacher, died on Monday at his home in Scituate, Mass. He was 86 years old. Mr. Robb, a Guggenheim fellow and Fulbrig
Dr. Allen D. Tanney, a physician who practiced as a consultant to manufacturers, hotels, a newspaper and several baseball teams, died of heart failure yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y. Dr. Allen D. Tanney, a physicia
Edward O. Kallmann, a financial consultant and adjunct finance professor at Pace University for 30 years, died in his sleep on Saturday at his home in East Williston, L.I. He was 89 years old. Edward O. Kallmann, a financial consultant and adjunct finance professor at Pace Uni
Harrison L. Winter, former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, died of cancer yesterday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 69 years old and lived in Baltimore. Harrison L. Winter, former chief judge of the United States Court o
J. Kenneth Robinson, a Virginia Republican who served in the House of Representatives for 14 years, died of pancreatic cancer on Sunday at his home in Winchester, Va. He was 73 years old. J. Kenneth Robinson, a Virginia Republican who served in the House of Representatives for
R. Dixon Herman, the Federal judge who oversaw the conspiracy trial of the Harrisburg Seven, died of a heart attack on Friday at Harrisburg Hospital. He was 78 years old. R. Dixon Herman, the Federal judge who oversaw the conspiracy trial of the Harrisburg Seven, died of a hea
The Rev. Dale Stewart Alexy, an Episcopal priest who led demonstrations last year against the curtailment of bus service in Jamaica, Queens, died of cancer on Monday at the rectory of St. Stephen's Church, where he lived. He was 57 years old. The Rev. Dale Stewart Alexy, an Ep
Yevgeny Y. Savitsky, a World War II flying ace who shot down 22 enemy planes in 216 missions against the Nazis over the Soviet Union, Poland and Germany, died on Friday after a long illness. He was 80 years old. Yevgeny Y. Savitsky, a World War II flying ace who shot down 22 e
Adm. Petar Simic, a Politburo member and the political chief of the armed forces, died of a brain hemorrhage in Belgrade today, the official Tanyug press agency reported. He was 57 years old. Adm. Petar Simic, a Politburo member and the political chief of the armed forces, die
Guy P. Simoni, a founder and executive vice president of MacLean Grove & Company, a construction concern based in Greenwich, Conn., died of lung cancer yesterday in St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J., and Vero Beach, Fla. Guy P. Si
Harold Ballard, the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League and a man described by his team's fact book as ''one of the most loved and hated men in Canada,'' died yesterday in Toronto. He was 86 years old and had spent most of the last two years in and out of ho
Helio Smidt, the president of Varig Brazilian Airlines, died of cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Rio de Janeiro. Helio Smidt, the president of Varig Brazilian Airlines, died of cancer yesterday at Memorial Slo
Dr. James V. McConnell, a retired professor of psychology at the University of Michigan who wrote ''Understanding Human Behavior,'' a textbook used widely in college psychology courses, died of a heart attack on Monday at St. Joseph's Mercy Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 64 years
Osborne K. Taylor, a retired assistant deputy treasurer of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, died of heart disease on Monday in a nursing home in Montclair, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Caldwell, N.J. Osborne K. Taylor, a retired assistant deputy treasurer of th
Richard M. Kain, an authority on James Joyce, died on April 5 at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 81 years old. Richard M. Kain, an authority on James Joyce, died on April 5 at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 81 years old. Professor Kain retired in 1975 as an Engl
Daniel P. A. Sweeney, a retired lawyer and former chief of the New York City Police Department's legal bureau, died on Wednesday at his home in Breezy Point, Queens. He was 85 years old. Daniel P. A. Sweeney, a retired lawyer and former chief of the New York City Police Depart
Dr. Felton Lewis Gibbons, an art historian who taught at Princeton University for more than 20 years, took his own life on Tuesday at his home in Hopewell, N.J., family members said. He was 60 years old. Dr. Felton Lewis Gibbons, an art historian who taught at Princeton Univer
Frederick K. Daniel, a chemist who founded Daniel Products, a paint manufacturing company in Jersey City, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on March 27 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 79 years old. Frederick K. Daniel, a chemist who founded Daniel Products, a 
George M. Haslerud, a retired psychology professor at the University of New Hampshire, died Tuesday at Wentworth-Douglas Hospital in Dover, N.H., after a short illness. He was 83 years old and lived in Durham. George M. Haslerud, a retired psychology professor at the Universit
Gordon Fuller Vawter, a pediatric pathologist, died of lymphoma on Wednesday at a cancer center in Gloucester, Mass. He was 67 years old and lived in Newton, Mass., and Gloucester. Gordon Fuller Vawter, a pediatric pathologist, died of lymphoma on Wednesday at a cancer center 
Jose De Vega Jr., an actor and choreographer who worked to eliminate ethnic stereotypes from show business, died of AIDS on Sunday at Veterans Memorial Hospital in Westwood. He was 56 years old. Jose De Vega Jr., an actor and choreographer who worked to eliminate ethnic stereo
Dr. Maxwell Harrison, an eye, ear, nose and throat surgeon who helped pioneer the use of microsurgery in Queens in trying to restore hearing loss, died of coronary artery disease on Sunday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Queens. He was 76 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I.       
Dr. Donald Leroy Sloan Jr., a biochemist and chairman of the chemistry department at City College of the City University of New York, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 years old. Dr. Donald Leroy Sloan Jr., a biochemist and chairman of the chemi
Fortune Gordien, who set a world record in the discus throw in 1953 and represented the United States three times in the Olympic Games, died on Tuesday in Fontana, Calif., after having been in the hospital since January with a blocked artery. He was 67 years old. Fortune Gordi
Dr. George Theodore Golding, a urologist in Queens for almost 50 years, died of an aneurism on Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 83 years old. Dr. George Theodore Golding, a urologist in Queens for almost 50 years, died of an aneurism on Tuesday at his home in Boc
Dr. John Ruskin Graham, a physician and educator who was a pioneer in the treatment of headaches, died of a blood disease on Wednesday at Faulkner Hospital in Boston. He was 81 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass. Dr. John Ruskin Graham, a physician and educator who was a p
Larry Peyton King, a composer and organist who was the music director at Trinity Church in lower Manhattan for 21 years, died Thursday at his family's home in Fullerton, Calif. He was 58 years old. Larry Peyton King, a composer and organist who was the music director at Trinit
Luis Trenker, a film maker whose career spanned five decades, died in his sleep early Friday at a hospital here, his family said. He was 97 years old. Luis Trenker, a film maker whose career spanned five decades, died in his sleep early Friday at a hospital here, his family sa
The Rev. Virginio Rotondi, a Jesuit who helped handle the Vatican's postwar relations with Italian politicians, died today. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed.  Father Rotondi, who wrote several books, was the host of two radio shows and often contributed to new
Theodore Hafner, an electronics physicist and a patent lawyer, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on March 26 at Warren (N.J.) Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Media, Pa. Theodore Hafner, an electronics physicist and a patent lawyer, died of complications
Thomas Lee Higginson, a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Shearman & Sterling who specialized in corporate and securities law, died yesterday at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., after a long illness. He was 70 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Thomas Lee Higginson
Carvel Collins, a professor and writer and an authority on the works of William Faulkner, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Tuesday at Tri-City Hospital in Oceanside, Calif. He was 77 years old and lived in Vista, Calif. Carvel Collins, a professor and writer and an authority o
Frank A. Welt, a founding partner of a New Jersey law firm and a lifelong lawyer for former Gov. Thomas H. Kean's family, died of congenitive heart failure on Friday at the Elizabeth (N.J.) General Medical Center. He was 82 years old and lived in Cranford, N.J. Frank A. Welt, 
Robley H. Lawson, a music conductor and voice teacher who was a founder and artistic director of the Manhasset Bay Opera Company of Long Island, died of congestive heart failure on April 8 at his home in Fern Park, Florida. He was 80 years old. Robley H. Lawson, a music conduc
Cove Hoover, former publisher of newspapers in New York, Illinois and Pennsylvania, died here on Friday at the age of 67. The cause of death was not given. Cove Hoover, former publisher of newspapers in New York, Illinois and Pennsylvania, died here on Friday at the age of 67.
Dr. Harold T. Fuerst, who retired in 1967 as Assistant Commissioner for Preventable and Chronic Diseases after 27 years in the New York City Health Department, died on Friday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Harold T. 
Lord Bruce-Gardyne, a former British Treasury Minister and fierce advocate of monetarism, died on Sunday after a long illness. He was 60 years old. Lord Bruce-Gardyne, a former British Treasury Minister and fierce advocate of monetarism, died on Sunday after a long illness. He
Sabicas, the Spanish gypsy who took the guitar out of the flamenco troupe and established himself as one of the finest solo guitarists of his time, died early Saturday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan after suffering multiple strokes and pneumonia. He was 78 years old and had live
Senator Spark M. Matsunaga of Hawaii, a longtime proponent of peaceful resolution of disputes and Soviet-American cooperation in space exploration, died of cancer early yesterday in Toronto General Hospital. He was 73 years old. Senator Spark M. Matsunaga of Hawaii, a longtime
Edward H. Winter, who sued a Cincinnati hospital for acting against his instructions by resuscitating him after he had a heart attack, died Saturday at a nursing home in suburban Cheviot, Ohio. He was 84 years old. Edward H. Winter, who sued a Cincinnati hospital for acting ag
Franklin Waldheim, a former vice president of Walt Disney Productions who was a copyright lawyer for the firm for more than 50 years, died of congenital heart failure on Sunday at a nursing home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 93 years old. Franklin Waldheim, a former vice presiden
Gregory Kolovakos, a translator of Latin American literature and director of the literature program of the New York State Council on the Arts, died of AIDS yesterday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 38 years old. Gregory Kolovakos, a translator of Latin 
John George Murphy, a retired Army colonel and a former professor at Fordham University, died of a stroke Saturday at his home in Washington. He 97 years old. John George Murphy, a retired Army colonel and a former professor at Fordham University, died of a stroke Saturday at 
The Rev. Dr. John Oliver Nelson, an ordained Presbyterian minister who founded the Kirkridge Retreat and Study Center in Bangor, Pa., died of congestive heart failure on April 9 at a convalescent center in State College, Pa. He was 80 years old. The Rev. Dr. John Oliver Nelson
The Rev. Leopold Damrosch, an Episcopal priest and the former rector of the Church of the Resurrection in Manhattan, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Hulls Cove, Me. He was 77 years old. The Rev. Leopold Damrosch, an Episcopal priest and the former rector of the Church 
Marco A. Robles, who as President of Panama in the 1960's tried but failed to negotiate new canal treaties, died Saturday in Miami. He was 84 years old and lived in Miami after stepping down. Marco A. Robles, who as President of Panama in the 1960's tried but failed to negotia
Robert Morton Werner, a television producer and the head of programming at NBC from 1962 to 1972, died of kidney failure on Saturday at Kula Hospital on Maui, Hawaii, after a long illness. He was 73 years old and lived in Pukalani, on Maui. Robert Morton Werner, a television p
Raymond Parker, an abstract painter, died of prostate cancer on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Raymond Parker, an abstract painter, died of prostate cancer on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in 
Thomas Watson Armitage, a retired insurance executive, died of pneumonia on Friday at a nursing home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 83 years old and lived in Fairfield. Thomas Watson Armitage, a retired insurance executive, died of pneumonia on Friday at a nursing home in Fairfiel
Arthur Sorin, founder and chief executive of one of the first concerns to install air-conditioning equipment in the city, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old. Arthur Sorin, founder and chief executive of one of the first concerns to install a
Benjamin Adler, an electronic engineer and inventor best known for his early work in ultrahigh-frequency television, died of pneumonia Monday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 86 years old. Benjamin Adler, an electronic engineer and inventor best known for his early work i
Fernando Lay, First Counselor of the Italian Mission to the United Nations, died Sunday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, after a long illness. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan. Fernando Lay, First Counselor of the Italian Mission to the United Nations, died
Howard Sherwood Tierney Jr., a retired Manhattan business executive, died of liver cancer on Monday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 71 years old. Howard Sherwood Tierney Jr., a retired Manhattan business executive, died of liver cancer on Monday at his home in Hobe Soun
Hugh Wilkens Colton, a rancher and lawyer who was a co-founder of the company that became the Marriott Corporation, died Saturday at his home in Vernal. He was 89 years old. Hugh Wilkens Colton, a rancher and lawyer who was a co-founder of the company that became the Marriott 
John W. Hundley, a musical comedy singer and actor and a CBS television executive who was in charge of the network's office of censorship for nearly 20 years, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 90 years old. John W. Hundley, a musical comedy
John B. Wick, a retired Superior Court judge in New Jersey, died of complications of a stroke on Saturday at Underwood Memorial Hospital in Woodbury, N.J. He was 82 years old and had lived in Woodbury. John B. Wick, a retired Superior Court judge in New Jersey, died of complic
Lawson P. Ramage, a retired vice admiral who served in the Pacific in World War II and was one of the Navy's most decorated submariners, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old. Lawson P. Ramage, a retired vice admiral who served in the Pacifi
Louis J. Tullio, the six-term Mayor of Erie, died at his home early today from amyloidosis, a rare disease that also took the life of Pittsburgh's Mayor in 1988. Mayor Tullio was 73 years old.  Mr. Tullio, a Democrat, was credited with helping to slow Erie's decline as a manufacturing
Mac Brier, a men's clothing manufacturer, died of a rare blood disease on Sunday at Bates Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 73 years old and lived in Oakland. Mac Brier, a men's clothing manufacturer, died of a rare blood disease on Sunday at Bates Hospital in Oakland, Calif.
Nathaniel Frison, head chef at the Old Original Bookbinders restaurant in Philadelphia for four decades and creator of many of its soups, died Friday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. He was 79 years old. Nathaniel Frison, head chef at the Old Original Bookbin
The Rev. Ralph David Abernathy, a pioneer leader in the civil rights struggle who was one of the most trusted confidants of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, died yesterday at the Crawford W. Long Hospital of Emory University in Atlan
The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, former dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, died of chronic lung disease on Saturday. He was 77 years old and lived in South Bend. The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, former dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the 
The Rev. John Atherton Bell, an Episcopal priest and the rector of the Church of the Incarnation in Manhattan for more than 30 years, died on Thursday at Forest Farm Inn, a convalescent center in Middletown, R.I. He was 80 years old and lived in Newport, R.I. The Rev. John Ath
Robert Forster Meffert, a retired member of the New York Stock Exchange, died Saturday at the Memorial Medical Center in Savannah, Ga., after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Beaufort, S.C. Robert Forster Meffert, a retired member of the New York Stock Exchange
Arthur Zaidenberg, a painter, sculptor and teacher who wrote the classic art-instruction book ''Anyone Can Draw,'' died Monday at his home in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. He was 88 years old. Arthur Zaidenberg, a painter, sculptor and teacher who wrote the classic art-instru
George Horne, who for more than 40 years covered the waterfront of New York, the world's busiest port, for The New York Times, died of congestive heart failure yesterday in Ardmore, Okla. He was 87 years old and lived in Ardmore. George Horne, who for more than 40 years covere
James P. O'Donnell, a former foreign correspondent whose 1978 book on the final days of Adolf Hitler, ''The Bunker,'' became a best-seller, died of lung and stomach cancer on Monday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 72 years old and lived in Boston. James P. O'
John D. McElroy, retired vice president and general counsel for the liquor division of the former National Distillers and Chemical Corporation, which is now the Quantum Chemical Corporation, in Manhattan, died of cancer on Friday at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 
John H. Reurs, chairman of the International Committee of Passenger Liners, a trade organization for cruise ships, died of prostate cancer on April 12 at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 66 years old and lived in Rowayton, Conn. John H. Reurs, chairman of the I
Richard G. Stein, an architect whose ideas on energy conservation have been influential in the design of buildings for two decades, died from a fractured skull at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y., yesterday. He was 73 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. Ri
Dr. Charles Edward Huggins, a physician and cryobiologist who helped develop the process for freezing and reusing red blood cells, died of pancreatic cancer on Wednesday at his home in Boston. He was 60 years old. Dr. Charles Edward Huggins, a physician and cryobiologist who h
Donald B. Armstrong Jr., retired executive vice president of the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency, died of a malignant melanoma on Tuesday at his home in Porte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 74 years old and had previously lived in Manhattan and Scarborough, N.Y. Donald B. Arms
Frank DiLuzio, a civil engineer who worked on nuclear projects and became an Assistant Secretary of the Interior in the Johnson Administration, died of a heart attack on Sunday at his home in Santa Fe. He was 77 years old. Frank DiLuzio, a civil engineer who worked on nuclear 
Jack Shamash, a major textile importer and business broker, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jack Shamash, a major textile importer and business broker, died of a heart attack 
Jule Gordon, a retired executive who founded the National Barber and Beauty Manufacturers Association, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. Jule Gordon, a retired executive who founded the National Barber and Beauty Manufacturers Association,
Lawrence R. Chenault, emeritus professor of economics at Hunter College, died Monday at Centre Community Hospital in State College, Pa. He was 92 years old and lived in State College. Lawrence R. Chenault, emeritus professor of economics at Hunter College, died Monday at Centr
Robert Brown, a professor of Spanish at Upsala College in East Orange, N.J., died of cancer on April 11 at the Hospital Center at Orange. He was 56 years old and lived in East Orange. Robert Brown, a professor of Spanish at Upsala College in East Orange, N.J., died of cancer o
Roy Schreiber, an owner of McCreedy & Schreiber, the family-operated Manhattan shoe store founded in 1922, died of Alzheimer's disease Monday at Northport Veterans Hospital on Long Island. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhasset Hills, L.I. Roy Schreiber, an owner of McCree
Wilson Mothershead, retired chairman of the Indiana National Bank and its parent organization, the Indiana National Corporation, died Tuesday at Methodist Hospital here. He was 84 years old and lived in Indianapolis. Wilson Mothershead, retired chairman of the Indiana National
Donald C. Knutson, a San Francisco lawyer who taught and wrote on the subject of homosexuality and the law and was a co-founder of the National Gay Rights Advocates, died of complications from AIDS Thursday at his home in San Francisco. He was 59 years old. Donald C. Knutson, 
Francis W. H. Adams, a lawyer, a leader in New York City's Reform Democratic movement and a former New York City Police Commissioner, died of heart failure yesterday at Devon Manor, a convalescent home in Devon, Pa. He was 85 years old and also had an apartment in Manhattan. F
Frederic Rossif, a film maker who documented the Spanish Civil War and the rise and fall of Nazi Germany, died of a heart attack on Wednesday. He was 68 years old. Frederic Rossif, a film maker who documented the Spanish Civil War and the rise and fall of Nazi Germany, died of
Dr. Herman Helpern, a physician in private practice in New York for more than half a century, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Dr. Herman Helpern, a physician in private practice in New York for more than half a centu
Robert H. Messing, a business executive and author, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 52 years old and had also lived in Milford, Conn. Robert H. Messing, a business executive and author, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in West Palm 
Erte, the Russian-born Art Deco designer whose prolific career in theater, sculpture and the graphic arts spanned most of the 20th century, died here today after a short illness. He was 97 years old. Erte, the Russian-born Art Deco designer whose prolific career in theater, sc
Frank J. Lausche, an independent-minded Democrat who had been , Mayor of Cleveland, Governor of Ohio, and a two-term United States Senator, died yesterday at the Slovene Home for the Aging in Cleveland. He was 94 years old. Frank J. Lausche, an independent-minded Democrat who 
Horst Sindermann, a powerful East German Communist official ousted in last year's pro-democracy revolt, has died, the official A.D.N. press agency said today. He was 74 years old. Horst Sindermann, a powerful East German Communist official ousted in last year's pro-democracy r
The Rev. Thaddeus Horgan, associate director of the Secretariat for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, died on Thursday at St. Mary's Hospital in Waterbury, Conn., after suffering a heart attack. He was 54 years old and lived in Washi
Robert Harris, a pianist who taught at The Juilliard School for 24 years, died of a stroke on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert Harris, a pianist who taught at The Juilliard School for 24 years, died of a stroke on Tuesday at
Johnny Beazley, who won two games in the 1942 World Series as a rookie to help the St. Louis Cardinals beat the New York Yankees, died Saturday after having suffered from cancer. He was 71 years old. Johnny Beazley, who won two games in the 1942 World Series as a rookie to hel
Philip Werner Amram, an expert on international private law and chairman of the United States delegation to the 1972 Hague Conference on International Private Law, died on Friday at the Allendale Nursing Home in Allendale, N.J. after a long illness. He was 90 years old and had lived i
Raymond J. Cantwell, chief financial officer of the Babcock & Wilcox engineering company, died of cancer on Saturday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Raymond J. Cantwell, chief financial officer of the Babcock & Wilco
Bob Davies, an all-America guard at Seton Hall a half-century ago and a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, died of cancer Sunday in a hospital at Hilton Head, S.C. He was 70 years old. Bob Davies, an all-America guard at Seton Hall a half-century ago and a member of the Ba
James W. Alsdorf, a Chicago business executive and a patron of the arts, died of a heart attack Saturday in Chicago. He was 76 years old and lived in Winnetka, Ill. James W. Alsdorf, a Chicago business executive and a patron of the arts, died of a heart attack Saturday in Chic
Johnny Beazley, who won two games in the 1942 World Series as a rookie to help the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Yankees, died Saturday after having suffered from cancer. He was 71 years old. Johnny Beazley, who won two games in the 1942 World Series as a rookie to help the St.
Khazem el-Khalil, a Lebanese Muslim legislator and former Cabinet minister, died of a heart attack on Sunday during a visit here, family members said. He was 89 years old. Khazem el-Khalil, a Lebanese Muslim legislator and former Cabinet minister, died of a heart attack on Sun
Lloyd I. Miller, an industrialist and horseman who was a former United States Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago, died on Sunday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 66 years old.  Mr. Miller was ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago from 1973 to 1975. He was a former chairman of Vulcan Inte
Paolo Ajroldi, an international advertising executive, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Chantilly, France. He was 57 years old. Paolo Ajroldi, an international advertising executive, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Chantilly, France. He was 57 years ol
Albert Salmi, an actor who made a career of portraying cowboys in television westerns like ''Gunsmoke,'' and his wife, Roberta, were found shot to death in an apparent murder-suicide, the police said today. Albert Salmi, an actor who made a career of portraying cowboys in tele
Arthur N. Field, a lawyer for more than 60 years, died of congestive heart failure on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Arthur N. Field, a lawyer for more than 60 years, died of congestive heart failur
Dr. Irving Sarot, a retired New York thoracic surgeon, died on Monday, apparently of a heart attack, at the Lotus Club in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and lived in West Hampton Beach, L.I. Dr. Irving Sarot, a retired New York thoracic surgeon, died on Monday, apparently of a
Dr. Ernest W. Kulka, an obstetrician and professor emeritus at New York University School of Medicine, died of a heart attack on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Ernest W. Kulka, an obstetrician and professor emeritus at
Pedro W. Guerrero, an early entrepreneur in Mexican food specialties who was a founder of the Rosarita Company, died of kidney failure on Monday at Mesa (Ariz.) Lutheran Hospital. He was 93 years old and lived in Mesa. Pedro W. Guerrero, an early entrepreneur in Mexican food s
Richard D. DeLauer, a former Under Secretary of Defense and an executive in the aerospace industry, died of leukemia on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Richard D. DeLauer, a former Under Secretary of Defense and a
The Rev. Vincent J. Hines, Roman Catholic Bishop of the Norwich Diocese in Connecticut from 1960 until he retired in 1975, died on Monday at Saint Francis Hospital and Medical Center. He was 77 years old. The Rev. Vincent J. Hines, Roman Catholic Bishop of the Norwich Diocese 
Dexter Gordon, one of the great tenor saxophonists and a charismatic figure in the jazz world, died of kidney failure yesterday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 67 years old, and had entered the hospital on March 18 for treatment of cancer of the larynx.
Dr. Max L. Som, a surgeon and leader in the field of otolaryngology whose specialty was the treatment of tumors of the head and neck, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan, after a long illness. He was 84 years old. Dr. Max L. Som, a surgeon and leader in the field of otola
Glade Peterson, a tenor, died of cancer on Saturday. He was 61 years old. Mr. Peterson made his professional debut in 1958 as Pinkerton in Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' with the NBC Touring Company in Amherst, Mass. His European debut was in 1960 in Spoleto, Italy. Glade Pete
Vice Adm. Gordon McLintock, who served as Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine Academy from 1948 to 1970, died of bone cancer on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 87 years old. Vice Adm. Gordon McLintock, who served as Superintendent of the United St
Paul W. Kayser, senior vice president of Paul R. Ray & Company, an international executive-recruiting concern based in Fort Worth, died of a heart attack Saturday while vacationing in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. He was 72 years old and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Paul W. Kayse
Perry Kimball Sellon, a business editor for U.S. News and World Report for 21 years, died of congestive heart failure on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 78 years old. Perry Kimball Sellon, a business editor for U.S. News and World Report for 21 years, died of con
Robert Lawrence Finley, a lawyer in Manhattan and a retired Government official, died of cancer on Sunday at Huggins Hospital in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 90 years old and lived in Tamworth, N.H. Robert Lawrence Finley, a lawyer in Manhattan and a retired Government official, die
Trumbull Higgins, a military historian and an author, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Trumbull Higgins, a military historian and an author, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 70 y
Abraham Taub, a retired chemistry professor, died of pnuemonia on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan. Abraham Taub, a retired chemistry professor, died of pnuemonia on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Ma
John W. Oliver, a senior Federal district judge, died of an aneurysm on Wednesday. He was 75 years old. John W. Oliver, a senior Federal district judge, died of an aneurysm on Wednesday. He was 75 years old. Judge Oliver was appointed a Federal judge in 1962 by Preside
The Rev. Leslie John Alden Lang, an Episcopal priest and an honorary assistant at St. Thomas Church on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. The Rev. Leslie John Alden Lang, an Episcopal priest and an honorary assistant at St.
Dr. Michel Morin, a psychiatrist who specialized in the emotional problems of deaf children, died yesterday at Doylestown (Pa.) Hospital. He was 55 years old and lived in Pipersville, Pa. Dr. Michel Morin, a psychiatrist who specialized in the emotional problems of deaf childr
Vincenzo Lamanna, a restaurateur, died of a pulmonary embolism on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Vincenzo Lamanna, a restaurateur, died of a pulmonary embolism on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manh
Alvin B. Finesman, a housewares marketing executive, died of lung cancer on Sunday at the Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 60 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Alvin B. Finesman, a housewares marketing executive, died of lung cancer on Sunday at the Stamford Hos
Herbert W. Karr, a founder and chairman of CACI International, which specializes in information services and market analysis, much of it for the Pentagon, died Wednesday at Stanford University Medical Center in Palo Alto, Calif., after a long illness. He was 64 years old and lived in 
Ralph Matlaw, an expert on 19th-century Russian literature who was a retired professor of the University of Chicago, died of cancer on Tuesday at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 years old and lived in Chicago. Ralph Matlaw, an expert on 19th-century Russian litera
Raymond Bernstein, retired president of Northville Industries of Long Island, a heating oil distributor, died on Thursday after he was struck by an automobile while riding a bicycle in Miami. The 62-year-old Miami resident lived for many years in Sands Point, L.I. Raymond Bern
The Rev. Michael W. Murphy, who in 1971, at the age of 80, became the oldest man to be ordained a Roman Catholic priest, died on Wednesday. He was 98 years old. The Rev. Michael W. Murphy, who in 1971, at the age of 80, became the oldest man to be ordained a Roman Catholic pri
Richard W. Camp, an antiques dealer and former actor, died of lung cancer on Thursday at his home in Wainscott, L.I. He was 67 years old. Richard W. Camp, an antiques dealer and former actor, died of lung cancer on Thursday at his home in Wainscott, L.I. He was 67 years old.  
Wesley Rose, a music publisher and co-founder of the Country Music Hall of Fame, died Thursday. He was 72 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Mr. Rose started his career in 1945 at Acuff-Rose Publishing, Nashville's first music publishing company. It was established by hi
John W. Jorgensen, who retired this month as president and chief executive of the Earle M. Jorgensen Company, a California-based steel and aluminum distributor and processor, died of cancer on Friday at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 64 years old. John W. Jorgensen, who
Courtney C. Brown, dean emeritus of Columbia University's Graduate School of Business, died of a stroke Saturday at the Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Courtney C. Brown, dean emeritus of Columbia University's 
John C. Clark, who was an official of the United States Export-Import Bank after a career on Wall Street and in banking, died of prostate cancer on Friday at his home on Hilton Head Island in South Carolina. He was 77 years old. John C. Clark, who was an official of the United
Michael Shawn, a director and choreographer, died of complications from AIDS on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan. Michael Shawn, a director and choreographer, died of complications from AIDS on Saturday a
The Rev. Vincent P. McCorry, a Jesuit priest who led spiritual retreats around the nation, died of cancer on Friday at the infirmary of the Fordham University campus in the Bronx. He was 80 years old and lived at the Jesuit Retreat House in Auriesville, N.Y. The Rev. Vincent P
