 Henry Racamier, who married a descendant of Louis Vuitton and built a family-owned leather goods company into one of the world's largest luxury goods groups, died on Saturday while traveling in Sardinia. He was 90. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Opéra National de Pa
 J. Hugh Liedtke, the longtime head of the Pennzoil Company who began his career by drilling scores of consecutive successful oil wells with his partner, George H. W. Bush, and went on to win billions of dollars from Texaco in a dramatic legal battle, died on Friday in Houston. He was 81.   
 Daniel Patrick Moynihan, naval gunnery officer and four-term United States senator, was buried today at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. The graveside ceremony followed a funeral mass at St. Patrick's Church, the oldest Roman Catholic church in Washington and t
 George Connor, one of college football's best linemen ever and then one of the best linebackers ever in professional football, died Monday at a hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 78. Connor played two years at Holy Cross, then spent two years in the Navy and played the next two years
 Harry Ellis Dickson, an old-school musician and personality who was a first violinist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra for five decades and a conductor of the Boston Pops for nearly as long, died on Saturday after a brief illness. He was 94. A witty raconteur, Mr. Dickson served for
 Michael Jeter, a Tony and Emmy Award-winning actor who played nebbishy characters with a Chaplinesque flair, was found dead on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 50. The cause of death was unknown, said his publicist, Dick Guttman. Mr. Jeter had H.I.V., but was said to be in good health 
 Walter Decoster Dennis, a retired suffragan bishop for the Episcopal Diocese of New York, as well as a lawyer and a civil rights advocate, died on Sunday in Hampton, Va. He was 70. The cause was an embolism, the diocese announced. When elected suffragan bishop, or principal 
 Lucian Adams, an Army sergeant in World War II who received the Medal of Honor for a single-handed assault on German troops that opened supply lines for an isolated American battalion, died on Monday in San Antonio. He was 80. Mr. Adams had been in poor health, but the cause of deat
 Michael Wayne, the eldest son of the actor John Wayne and the producer of many of his father's films, died on Wednesday in Burbank, Calif. He was 68. The cause was heart failure after complications from lupus, said his publicist, Warren Cowan. Beginning with ''The Alamo'' in
 M. Anthony Fisher, a senior partner at Fisher Brothers, one of the most prominent real estate firms in the city, died yesterday in a plane crash in Massachusetts that killed six of the seven people on board. He was 52. His wife, Anne Fisher, 41, the pilot and the copilot were also k
 Michael Kelly, former editor and then editor at large for The Atlantic Monthly and a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post, was killed in Iraq yesterday when the military vehicle in which he was riding ran off a road and into a canal south of Baghdad. He was 46. Mr. Kelly had
 M. Anthony Fisher, a senior partner at Fisher Brothers, one of the most prominent real estate firms in New York City, died Friday in a plane crash in Massachusetts that killed six of the seven people on board. He was 52. His wife, Anne Fisher, 41, the pilot and the copilot were also
 Julius Levine, whose performances on the double bass provided a solid underpinning to several classic recordings of Schubert's ''Trout'' Quintet, and who was renowned as a teacher and chamber music coach, died on Friday at Amsterdam House, a health-care residence in Manhattan. He was 81.   
 Philip Yordan, an Oscar-winning writer, died on March 24 in San Diego, his family said. He was 88. Although he was most active in movies, Mr. Yordan's breakthrough came on Broadway in the 1940's with his play ''Anna Lucasta.'' It was the first Broadway production to feature 
 David Bloom, the co-anchor of the weekend edition of NBC's ''Today'' show, collapsed yesterday and died while covering the war in Iraq for the network. He was 39. NBC said yesterday that the cause was apparently a blood clot, and that the death was not combat-related. Mr. Bl
 Dr. Frederic Lawrence Holmes, a leading authority on the history of medicine and science who wrote detailed accounts of the creative processes behind landmark scientific discoveries, died on March 27 in New Haven. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said Dr. John Warner, a colleague at
 Dr. Harold Scott MacDonald Coxeter, a mathematician who was hailed as one of the foremost geometricians of his generation and whose ideas inspired the drawings of M. C. Escher and influenced the architecture of R. Buckminster Fuller, died on March 31 in his home in Toronto. He was 96.      
 Richard T. York, a dealer in American art who was president and founder of the Richard York Gallery in Manhattan, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was cancer, his gallery announced. He opened his gallery at 21 East 65th Street in 1981 and concentrated on 
 Emanuel Tobier, a New York economist and urban planner who was an outspoken authority on the metropolitan area's vital signs, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 73 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Tobier 
 Leon Levy, a hedge fund pioneer who began investing at 13 with $200 and went on to make many millions, enough to make him one of the main individual backers of archaeological research, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, Shelby White, hi
 Babatunde Olatunji, the Nigerian drummer, bandleader and teacher who was a tireless ambassador for African music and culture in the United States, died on Sunday in Salinas, Calif. He was 76 and lived at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif. The cause was complications of advanced
 Samuel N. Antupit, art director for more than 100 magazines and newspapers and the designer of books by artists like Roy Lichtenstein, Alex Katz and Barbara Kruger, died on Saturday in Seattle. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Rosalie Littman, who is known as R
 James D. Finley, a textile executive who led the giant J. P. Stevens & Company for 14 years, steering it through some of the industry's most intense labor disputes, died on Saturday in Gulfstream, Fla. He was 86. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Nancy, said. Mr. Finle
 Robin W. Winks, a Yale scholar who combined a love of British imperial history with enthusiasm for open spaces and a consuming interest in international espionage and detective fiction, died on Monday in New Haven. He was 72. The cause was complications after a stroke, his wife, Avr
 Ambaji Shinde, who brought design sensibilities honed under the maharajahs to the grandeur of the pieces he created as the principal designer at the New York jeweler Harry Winston, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 85. Until two years ago, Mr. Shinde, who set jewels for Indian ma
 Jean-Pierre Moueix, a Bordeaux wine merchant and chateau owner who first made the world aware of what is now one of the most fabled of that region's properties, Château Pétrus, died on March 28 at his home in Libourne, 20 miles east of Bordeaux. He was 89 and had been retired from the fam
 Robert G. Hoyt, who founded The National Catholic Reporter, an independent weekly newspaper that substantially changed the way Roman Catholicism was covered and understood in the United States, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 81. Mr. Hoyt, who had been in ill health and on dia
 Dr. Donald W. Fiske, a psychologist who helped establish the multiple-method approach to social science research and challenged the idea that personalities could be defined with traits that were consistent through time and across situations, died on April 5 at his home in Chicago. He was 86
 Dr. Emmanuel Ghent, a pioneering composer of computer-generated electronic music and a practitioner, researcher and teacher of psychoanalysis, died on March 31 in New York. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Karen Weiss. In the late 1960's, while on a Gu
 Jorge Oteiza, a Basque artist and intellectual whose abstract metal sculptures seemed spacious and weightless despite their large scale, died on Wednesday in San Sebastián, Spain. He was 94. Although Mr. Oteiza was not widely known outside Spain, his work resonated with a handful o
 Dr. Robert Frank Goldberger, a professor emeritus of biochemistry and molecular biophysics and former provost of Columbia University, died on April 5 at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 69 and lived in the Riverdale neighborhood of the Bronx. The cause was a stroke, his family said.
 Dino Yannopoulos, a prominent stage director at the Metropolitan Opera and elsewhere, died April 6 in Philadelphia. He was 83. In a career of more than 50 years, he was principal director of the Metropolitan Opera in New York from 1945 to 1977. He was also artistic director 
 Dr. Arthur C. Guyton, the author of one of the world's most widely used medical textbooks, a researcher who made significant contributions to the understanding of hypertension and who was the father of 10 Harvard-educated doctors, died in an automobile accident near his home in Jackson, Mis
 Lloyd L. Brown, a journalist and novelist who helped Paul Robeson write his autobiography, ''Here I Stand,'' and was an editor at the leftist literary journal New Masses, died at his home in Manhattan on April 1. He was 89. Published in 1958, ''Here I Stand'' chronicled Robeson's ca
 Whitney S. Stoddard, an art historian and influential teacher who taught for many years at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., died on April 2 at his home there. He was 90. Mr. Stoddard wrote important studies tracing the origins and styles of medieval art and architecture. His
 Cecil H. Green, a founder of Texas Instruments and a major educational and medical philanthropist, died on Friday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 102. On Dec. 6, 1941, Mr. Green joined with Eugene McDermott, J. Erik Jonsson and H. Bates Peacock to buy a Dallas company called Geophysical 
 Noel Fox, a former bass singer with the Oak Ridge Boys who became a power in the music business, died here on Thursday. He was 63. He died after surgery following a series of strokes, his longtime band manager, Jim Halsey, said. Mr. Fox was born and raised in Columbia, about
 Tom King, the Hollywood columnist of The Wall Street Journal, died on Sunday while he was visiting friends on Long Island, The Journal reported yesterday. He was 39 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was not known, pending an autopsy. A native of Cedar Rapids, Iowa
 Charles H. Bell, the son of the founder of General Mills, who helped transform a flour-milling company into an international diversified food manufacturer, died on Saturday in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 95. In the 25 years he held top positions at the company, Mr. Bell broadened t
 Leonard Tose, a son of an immigrant peddler who built a multimillion-dollar trucking business, bought the Philadelphia Eagles pro football team in 1969 and later sold the business and the team to pay off more than $25 million in gambling debts at Atlantic City casinos, died yesterday in Phi
 Robert H. Helmick, a former president of the United States Olympic Committee who resigned in 1991 because of perceived conflicts of interest, died yesterday at a hospital in Des Moines. He was 66. He had a stroke last Friday, his wife, Georgia, said. While working full time 
 Thomas David Flynn, a retired New York accounting executive and the first chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was known as Big Mac during the city's dark fiscal days in the mid-1970's, died on Saturday while on a family vacation in Puerto Rico. He was 90 and lived in Pri
 D. Gale Johnson, a pioneer in agricultural economics and later an expert on the Soviet Union and China, died Sunday in Amherst, Mass. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia related to Lou Gehrig's disease, according to his daughter, Kay Ann. Professor Johnson's career in agricul
 Emerson Chapin, a longtime New York Times editor and foreign correspondent, died on Monday in Montclair, N.J. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter, Ruth, said. Mr. Chapin, who lived in Montclair, worked for The Times from 1955 until his retirement 
 Glenn Savan, whose popular first novel, ''White Palace'' (1987), was about a St. Louis waitress's mismatched romance with an ad man, died on Monday at his home in Shrewsbury, Mo. He was 49. The cause was either a heart attack or stroke, his family said. Mr. Savan's book was 
 John Strejan, who earned the nickname Silverblade for his mastery of paper engineering in designing complicated and fanciful pop-up books for children and adults, died in Los Angeles on March 26. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Stephanie Strejan-Schwartz. 
 Samuel J. LeFrak, an outspoken champion of middle-income housing who headed the family company that produced it in and around New York City more plentifully than any other builder in the years since World War II, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. Through four decad
 Dr. Robert C. Atkins, a cardiologist who devised a hotly debated weight-loss plan favoring steak and eggs over spaghetti and spinach that more than 30 million Americans have tried, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 72. Dr. Atkins fell and suffered head injuries on April 8 on the s
 J. Paul Getty Jr., the remote American-born heir to an oil fortune who made Britain his home and beneficiary, died yesterday in London. He was 70. Mr. Getty was admitted to the private London Clinic on Monday and was being treated for a recurrent chest infection, the Associated Pres
 John S. Latsis, the last of a generation of extremely rich Greek shipowners and businessmen that included household names like Aristotle Onassis and Stavros Niarchos, died on April 17 in Athens. He was 92. The Latsis business empire included shipping, banks, oil refineries and const
 Quigg Newton, who was the mayor of Denver and the president of the University of Colorado before becoming the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a philanthropic foundation based in Manhattan that increased its support for urban health care during his tenure, died on April 4 in Denver. He w
 Theodore Weiss, a poet with a bent for narrative verse who was also an influential critic and teacher of English literature and creative writing at Princeton University, died on Tuesday at his home in Princeton. He was 86. With his wife, Renee Karol Weiss, Mr. Weiss edited Quarterly
 Earl King, the New Orleans rhythm-and-blues guitarist and singer who wrote songs that became Mardi Gras standards, died on Thursday in New Orleans, his lawyer said. He was 69. The cause was complications related to diabetes, according to the lawyer, Greg Eveline.. Mr. King, 
 Prof. Franz Rosenthal, an eminent interpreter of Arabic literature and Islamic religion and a scholar of Aramaic, died on April 8 at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 88 and had lived in Hamden, Conn. He was Sterling professor emeritus of Arabic at Yale. Professor Rosentha
 Saul William Gellerman, a psychologist, management consultant and author of books and training films in those areas, died on March 26 in Cleveland. He was 74 and a resident of Denver. The cause was complications from heart surgery, said his wife, Patricia. Dr. Gellerman was 
 Earl King, the New Orleans rhythm-and-blues guitarist and singer who wrote songs that became Mardi Gras standards, died on Thursday in New Orleans, his lawyer said. He was 69. The cause was complications related to diabetes, according to the lawyer, Greg Eveline. Mr. King, w
 Richard B. Sewall, a longtime English professor at Yale University whose influential biography of Emily Dickinson dispelled many myths about the reclusive poet, died in Newton, Mass., on Wednesday at the home of his son Richard. He was 95. In ''The Life of Emily Dickinson,'' publish
 Abraham Fuchsberg, the senior partner in Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg, a New York law firm that is nationally recognized for its success in representing plaintiffs in personal injury cases, died last Tuesday in Miami. He was 87. Mr. Fuchsberg (pronounced FYOOKS-burg) established the firm i
 The Rev. Eric Butterworth, whose pulpit was in Lincoln Center and whose message of personal renewal through changes in attitude made him a popular leader in the New Age spiritual movement, died on Thursday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 86. His age, typically, was the 
 Cholly Atkins, a superb dancer who brought the polished precision of his legendary tap act with Honi Coles to choreographing the sassy, synchronized moves of the most celebrated Motown performers, died on Saturday in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 89. When groups like the Temptat
 Edgar F. Codd, a mathematician and computer scientist who laid the theoretical foundation for relational databases, the standard method by which information is organized in and retrieved from computers, died on Friday at his home in Williams Island, Fla. He was 79. The cause was hea
 Norbert Anthony Schlei, a legal adviser in the Kennedy and Johnson White House who played major roles in the Cuban missile crisis and civil rights legislation, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived and practiced law in Santa Monica, Calif. The cause was complications 
 Teddy Edwards, a deft and soulful saxophonist who was a mainstay of the Southern California jazz scene and played what is said to be the first recorded bebop solo on tenor saxophone, died on Sunday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, which was d
 Bertram Ross, a leading member of the Martha Graham Dance Company for two decades and Graham's longtime dance partner, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. He had been suffering from Parkinson's syndrome for some years, but the immediate cause of death was 
 Abram Bergson, an economist who brought sophisticated analytical tools and a theorist's rigor to the study of the Soviet economy, died on Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89. For many years economists regarded Professor Bergson, who taught at Harvard, as the dean of Soviet econo
 Robert Blackburn, an artist who founded the influential Printmaking Workshop in New York, died on Monday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 82. Mr. Blackburn, whose parents were from Jamaica, grew up in Harlem during the Depression. He was introduced to printmaking in 
 Sir Bernard Katz, who shared the 1970 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for his work explaining how messages are transmitted between nerves and muscles, died on Sunday. He was 92. He lived in London since just after World War II. Sir Bernard was honored, along with the 
 Dr. Charles Alderson Janeway Jr., a renowned immunobiologist at the Yale medical school often referred to as the father of the understanding of innate immunity, the human body's first line of defense against infection, died on April 12 at his home in New Haven. He was 60. The cause 
 Dr. Robert W. Wilkins, a researcher who helped establish the dangers of high blood pressure and introduced some of the first drug therapies to treat it, died at his home in Newburyport, Mass., on April 9. He was 96. Dr. Wilkins, who received the prestigious Albert Lasker Award in 19
 Dr. John Francis Kullberg, president of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals from 1978 to 1991, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 64 and lived in Germantown, Md. The cause was cancer, the Humane Society of the United States said in announcing his death
 Michael Stillman, a founder of Monitor Records, a label known for its remarkably eclectic musical mix, died on April 15 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Stillman and his partner, Rose Rubin, founded Monitor in 1956 to fill a gap they perceived in the music available to the
 Ray Hicks, who lived on a remote mountain and became famous among folklorists by telling stories older than America about ghosts, witches and a trickster named Jack, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Boone, N.C. He was 80. The cause was prostate cancer, his wife, Rosa, said.    
 Sir Graham Stuart Thomas, whose passionate knowledge and love of plants placed him among the world's greatest gardeners, died on April 16, in a hospital near his home in Woking, England. He was 94. Born in Cambridge in 1909, Sir Graham was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 
 Mike Larrabee, who overcame injury and illness to become a double gold medalist in track at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, when he was six weeks away from his 31st birthday, died last Tuesday at his home in Santa Maria, Calif. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. At a
 Peter Stone, whose sophisticated wit in films like ''Charade'' and zeal for historical accuracy in Broadway musicals like ''1776'' helped him become the first writer to win an Oscar, an Emmy and a Tony, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Amagansett, o
 Robert Randolph, a designer of sets and lighting for Broadway productions for three decades, died on March 2 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said Charles Guthrie, his companion. Mr. Randolph, who also did some costume designs, desi
 Edwin Saul Marks, an investment banker and supporter of Lincoln Center as well as medical and other cultural institutions, died on Thursday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Marks headed Carl Marks & Company, the firm found
 Chris Borgen, a former New York City police detective who was a news reporter on WCBS-TV in New York for nearly 30 years, died on Friday in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 76. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, CBS announced. Mr. Borgen joined the station in 1966. His forte was breaki
 David Sievert Lavender, a Colorado rancher and miner who turned to writing 60 years ago and became one of the most prolific chroniclers of the American West, died on Saturday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Lavender's first book was ''One Man's West'' (Doubleday, 1943), h
