 Gil Nickel, a onetime guided-missile expert from Oklahoma who became a prominent wine producer in the Napa Valley, died on Thursday at his home in Oakville, Calif. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Armed with little more than an amateur's enthusiasm for wine,
 James O'Gara, who led the influential Catholic magazine Commonweal for more than three decades and maintained it as a powerful voice of liberalism in the church, died on Oct. 22 in Catonsville, Md. He was 85. Mr. O'Gara joined Commonweal during the McCarthy era, guided it in the 196
 Lynn S. Beedle, a leader and creative force in the study, design and building of skyscrapers, died on Thursday at his home in Hellertown, Pa. He was 85. A structural engineer and a longtime professor at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., Dr. Beedle was renowned in the construction
 Robert J. Barnes, a makeup salesman who spent a quarter-century building Estée Lauder into one of the best-selling brands in cosmetics, died on Sunday at his home in Monarch Beach, Calif. He was 86. He had been suffering from lung cancer, said his son, John. Mr. Barnes join
 Seymour Graubard, the chairman of the Anti-Defamation League in the 1970's and an outspoken opponent of anti-Semitism and advocate for Soviet Jews, died on Wednesday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92. Formerly of the Upper East Side, he lived in Seattle and Palm Beach after retiring fro
 William F. Draper, a portrait painter and former combat artist who depicted many of the world's wealthiest and most powerful, died at his home in Manhattan on Sunday. He was 90. In Mr. Draper's five-decade career, his subjects included President Richard M. Nixon, Mayor John V. Linds
 Peter Henry Geoffrey Morgan, whose company makes the old-fashioned roadsters that bear his name, died on Oct. 20. He was 83 and lived in Malvern Link, England. Mr. Morgan belonged to an exclusive club: someone whose name is still on products made by a family concern founded more tha
 Richard E. Neustadt, the White House adviser, historian and authority on presidential power, died on Friday in England. He was 84. His death was reported by a spokesman for the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, for which Mr. Neustadt was a founding faculty member and had serv
 Behram N. Kursunoglu, a physicist who founded and led the Center for Theoretical Studies, an influential research organization at the University of Miami that drew scientists from around the world, died on Oct. 25 in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 81. The cause of death was a heart attac
 Doug Tuchman, a concert promoter and disc jockey who was one of the first to bring bluegrass to New York, died on Oct. 6 in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was a heart attack, said his former wife, Gail Tuchman. Mr. Tuchman was on his way to see the Del McCoury
 Frank A. Pitelka, whose studies of wildlife in the Arctic and California helped establish a field of study documenting the way environmental factors affect animal behavior, died Oct. 10 at his daughter's home in Altadena, Calif. He was 87. An emeritus professor of zoology at the Uni
 Dr. Paul Calabresi, a leader in developing and testing drugs to treat Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer and prostate cancer, among other diseases, died Oct. 25 in Providence, R.I. He was 73. The cause was cancer of the tongue, his son Steven said. Dr. Calabresi, who lived in
 Richard E. Neustadt, the White House adviser, historian and authority on presidential power, died on Friday in England. He was 84. His death was reported by a spokesman for the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, for which Mr. Neustadt was a founding faculty member and had serv
 Robert G. Bartle, a mathematician known for his authoritative texts on real analysis and other areas of advanced mathematics, died on Sept. 18 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his son James said. His first book, ''The Elements of Real Analysis
 Philip M. Chu, an architect whose work included libraries at Amherst, Barnard and Bryn Mawr Colleges and at Princeton University, died on Oct. 27 at the Arcadia Residence, a home for the elderly in Honolulu. He was 83 and moved to Honolulu with his wife 14 years ago. The cause was a
 David Bar-Illan, a concert pianist, editor and media critic who served as chief spokesman for the Israeli government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 73. Mr. Bar-Illan died from complications of a heart attack he suffered in February 2000,
 Vadim Valery Filatov, an eye doctor who directed a half-dozen centers for laser-assisted surgery in the New York region, died last Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was liver disease, his family said. Dr. Filatov
 Herbert Muschel, who created PR Newswire, the service that lets companies send press releases to news outlets electronically, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. When Mr. Muschel started the business in 1954, companies had no way 
 John Gordon, an expert on American folk art who amassed one of the country's finest private collections of pots, whirligigs, weather vanes and paintings, died on Oct. 25 in the Bronx. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Gordon, who for many years maintained a gallery on West 57th 
 William Swetland, a venerable character actor on Broadway and in regional theater who specialized in stalwart, older characters, died on Friday in Branford, Conn. He was 90. Tall and imposing, with a thick mane of hair and aquiline features, Mr. Swetland was one of the country's pre
 Bobby Hatfield, whose wholesomely passionate tenor carried the upper harmonies of the pop-soul duo the Righteous Brothers, died on Wednesday in a hotel room in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 63 and lived in Newport Beach, Calif. The cause was unknown, David Cohen, his manager, said. Mr. Ha
 Roy Lucas, a lawyer who helped fashion the ''right to privacy'' legal argument used in Roe v. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion in the United States, died on Monday in Prague. He was 61 and lived in Washington. The cause was a heart attack, said his sis
 Hugh H. Bownes, a former federal appeals court judge whose rulings in defense of civil liberties often put him at odds with conservative New Englanders, died at Yale New Haven Hospital on Wednesday. He was 83 and lived in Branford, Conn. The cause was pneumonia coming after a stroke
 John Gleason, a lighting designer and teacher who developed new ways to use color in theatrical productions, died on Oct. 28. He was 62 and lived in Watsontown, Pa. The cause was heart failure, said Allen Lee Hughes, a colleague and friend. In his three decades as a designer
 Richard Wollheim, a philosopher who synthesized analytic philosophy, psychoanalysis and the study of painting to develop aesthetic insights that are considered among the most profound of the postwar era, died on Tuesday at his home in London. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, 
 Horace L. Woodring, an Army private who was chauffeuring the Cadillac limousine of Gen. George S. Patton through the German countryside when it crashed and caused the injuries that resulted in Patton's death, died last Sunday at a Detroit hospital. He was 77 and lived in White Lake, Mich.  
 Richard B. Smith, a New York corporate lawyer with a long history of public service, including four years on the Securities and Exchange Commission, died last Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was pan
 Milton S. Shapiro, a lawyer who was active in many organizations in support of Israel, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said his son, Philip. Mr. Shapiro was the chairman of the American Zionist Fund from 1982 to 1985, and president o
 Irv Kupcinet, the celebrity-adoring gossip columnist for The Chicago Sun-Times whose daily jottings amounted to a love letter to the city where he himself became a celebrity, died there on Monday. He was 91, and his last column ran on Thursday. Mr. Kupcinet was possessed of an old-f
 Jack Clifton Grigg, an electrical engineer who helped guide the Navy into the age of nuclear propulsion and the country into the realm of commercial nuclear power, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 83. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.        
 Art Carney, the Academy Award-winning comic actor who first gained fame as the guffawing, slightly off-center sewer worker Ed Norton in the early 1950's television series ''The Honeymooners,'' died on Sunday at a convalescent home in Chester, Conn. He was 85. Mr. Carney's talents we
 Marvin Smith, who photographed the pageant of life in Harlem from anti-lynching demonstrations to Fats Waller at the piano to thousands of everyday babies and brides, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Smith worked so closely with his identical twin brother, Morgan, who die
 A. Michael DeSisto, founder and headmaster of the innovative DeSisto School in Stockbridge, Mass., which specializes in helping troubled adolescents through unusual programs that include the culinary and performing arts, died on Nov. 1 in Boston. He was 64 and lived on the school's campus. 
 Charles L. Brown, the former chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, who agreed to the historic breakup of the Bell system, died yesterday in Richmond, Va. He was 82 and had lived in Princeton, N.J., since 1975. Mr. Brown, a soft-spoken and reserved executive who p
 Derk Bodde, who began his academic career as the first Fulbright scholar and over more than 50 years wrote influential books on China that included an eyewitness account of Mao's revolution, died on Nov. 3 at a retirement home in Philadelphia. He was 94. Dr. Bodde, who taught at the
 Dr. Paul Janssen, a Belgian doctor whose research led to the start of the international pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica, now part of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at a hotel in Rome, where he was attending a conference. He was 77 and lived in Vosselaar, near his co
 Joe Kleinerman, a runner, track coach and Runyonesque character who was a key figure in developing the New York Road Runners Club, the New York City Marathon and women's distance running, died on Tuesday in Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 91. Until 1958, when road races were sc
 Mario Merz, an Italian artist whose installations exemplified the Arte Povera movement and its use of humble, often organic materials, died on Sunday at his home in Milan. He was 78. He died in his sleep, and no cause of death was announced. Mr. Merz belonged to a generation
 Dr. Donald R. Griffin, who was considered the founder of the modern field involving the study of animal thinking and consciousness, and who early in his career helped unravel the secret of bats' navigation system, died last Friday in Lexington, Mass. He was 88. An emeritus professor
 Stephen A. Benton, a pioneer in medical-imaging and fine-arts holography who invented the ''rainbow'' holograms now found on credit cards, died on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 61 and lived in nearby Lincoln, Mass. The cause was brain cancer, said the Ma
 Irving Richards, an entrepreneur who helped take modern design to the dinner table, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. Beginning in the 1930's, Mr. Richards sought emerging industrial designers and brought them together with manufacturers who produced their work -- 
 Richard C. Squires, who built a career on racket sports, including serving as publisher of tennis magazines, died Wednesday at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 72. The cause was emphysema, his wife, Dr. Joan Finn Squires, said. Mr. Squires won national titles in three rack
 Seymour Cohn, co-founder and chairman of the Sylvan Lawrence Company, long a major commercial real estate power in New York City, died on Thursday. He was 92. A former resident of Upper Brookville, N.Y., Mr. Cohn lived in Palm Beach, Fla. At its peak, the Sylvan Lawrence Com
 Dr. William W. Montgomery, a Harvard surgeon who originated many techniques that are now widely used in operations on the throat and the vocal cords, died on Nov. 7, at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 80. He had been suffering from bladder cancer for more than a year, said his s
 Bruce Alexander Cook, a writer of crime fiction and nonfiction, died on Nov. 9 in Los Angeles. He was 71. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter Catherine. The best known of his crime novels, written under the name Bruce Alexander, was a series about Sir John Fielding, th
 Georgi Vladimov, a dissident Russian writer whose dark, allegorical novels of life under the Soviet regime forced him into exile, died on Oct. 19 in Germany, Agence France-Presse reported. He was 72. Mr. Vladimov left Russia in 1983 after tangling publicly with the authorities. His 
 Laurence A. Tisch, the self-made New York billionaire who was hailed as a white knight for saving CBS Inc. from a hostile takeover and then reviled for diminishing what was once the nation's premier broadcasting network, died early yesterday at Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medi
 Ralph Stanton Emerson, a New York surgeon who helped develop physician-sponsored professional liability insurance during a malpractice insurance crisis in the 1970's, died on Sept. 26. He was 91. The cause was pulmonary arrest, said his son John W. Emerson. Dr. Emerson was p
 Alexander M. Vagliano, who was involved in the negotiations for the return of American hostages from Iran, died on Thursday at his home in Norfolk, Conn. He was 76. The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Sara, said. In January 1981, as head of the international b
 Anthony Ripley, a former national correspondent for The New York Times and a founding editor of the quarterly Discovery YMCA, died on Friday in Boulder, Colo. He was 75 and lived in nearby Lyons. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Ripley was a reporter for The Detroit News
 Dr. Leon Pordy, a Manhattan cardiologist who unexpectedly moved into the corporate world, becoming chairman of the Chock full o'Nuts coffee company, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Dr. Pordy, a pioneer in the application of computer technology to cardiology, was
 Earl Battey, a four-time All-Star catcher for the Minnesota Twins in the 1960's, died last Saturday at a hospital in Gainesville, Fla. Battey, who lived in Ocala, Fla., was 68. The cause was cancer, his wife, Sonia, said. Battey played for 13 seasons in the major leagues and
 Fritz Kraemer, a refugee from Nazi Germany who tutored generations of America's leading generals in historical and geopolitical thinking, died in Washington on Sept. 8. He was 95. From 1951 until his retirement in 1978, he worked in the Pentagon as a senior civilian counselor to def
 Gene Anthony Ray, who starred as Leroy, a street-smart urban teenager, in the 1980 movie ''Fame'' and the later television series, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 41. The cause was complications of a stroke he had in June, and he was also H.I.V. positive, said Jean E. Ray, his m
 Leonard Karlin, who helped conceive, develop and run the George Polk Awards, one of journalism's highest honors, died on Friday at a hospice in the Bronx. He was 81 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was a brain tumor, said Robert Spector, chairman of the Polk Awards, which are
 Dr. Allan J. Erslev, who identified a hormone that is now widely used in its synthetic form to treat anemic disorders, and abused to enhance athletic performance, died on Nov. 12 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 84. The hormone, erythropoietin, is made in the kidneys and can inc
 Eason Harris Leonard, a founding partner and longtime reigning impresario of the Manhattan architectural firm I. M. Pei & Partners, now Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, died last Thursday in Carmel, Calif., where he had retired in 1990. He was 83 and formerly lived in Tarrytown, N.Y. The 
 Satoru Masamune, who developed a wide array of techniques for synthesizing organic molecules, including antibiotics, died on Nov. 9 in Newton, Mass. He was 75. The cause was complications from cardiac arrest, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Dr. Masamune
 Dr. Arthur L. Colwin, part of a husband-and-wife team of biologists who helped uncover the complex process that takes place when a sperm cell and an egg cell merge to form a fertilized egg, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was 92. In the 1950's, when he an
 Joseph P. Williams, who as a Bank of America executive in the 1950's came up with a revolutionary forerunner of all national bank credit cards, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Atlantis, Fla. He was 88. National cards like the Diners Club card had allowed consumers to pay without cash,
 Henry Phace Roberts, a tap dancer who performed with the Copasetics and on television and in the movies, died on Nov. 8 in New York. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Born in Savannah, Ga., Mr. Roberts trained as a child by performing on the streets, in the time-honored way of tap. 
 William Butts Macomber Jr., a former government official and diplomat who in 1978 became the first full-time president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at his home in Nantucket, Mass. He was 82. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
 Bernard Brightman, who built a successful jazz record company on a foundation of songs about sex and drugs, died on Nov. 9 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his son Adam said. Mr. Brightman's company, Stash Records, took
 Edward L. Schempp, a parent whose lawsuit against the required reading of Bible verses in school led to a landmark Supreme Court decision in 1963 restricting such practices, died on Nov. 8 at a nursing home in Hayward, Calif. He was 95. A similar case in Baltimore, filed by the athe
 Gordon Onslow Ford, a painter who was one of the last Parisian Surrealists, died on Nov. 9 at his home in Inverness, Calif. He was 90. In Paris in the late 1930's, Mr. Ford was inspired by the abstract approaches to Surrealist painting taken by artists like Joan Miró and André Mas
 Tony Thompson, a drummer whose beat for Chic helped define both disco and hip-hop, died on Nov. 12 in Los Angeles. He was 48 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was renal cell cancer, according to his family's Web site, tonythompsonfund.com. Mr. Thompson applied meticulous t
 Hugh Kenner, the critic, author and professor of literature regarded as America's foremost commentator on literary modernism, especially the work of Ezra Pound and James Joyce, died yesterday at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 80. He had been suffering from heart problems, his wife, 
 Paul J. Haskins, an editor at The New York Times who earlier directed The Kansas City Times's Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of a disastrous hotel walkway collapse in 1981, died on Sunday in Cancún, Mexico. He was 62. The cause was pneumonia and other complications of emphysema, h
 Warren Spahn, who in a career spanning 21 seasons won 363 games, the major league record for a left-handed pitcher, died yesterday at his home in Broken Arrow, Okla. He was 82. Confounding batters with a fluid, high-kicking motion and an assortment of pitches that nicked the corners
 Teddy Randazzo, who with Bobby Weinstein and others wrote hundreds of popular songs like ''Goin' Out of My Head'' and ''It's Gonna Take a Miracle,'' died on Friday at his home in Orlando. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said Mr. Weinstein, his longtime friend and songwritin
 W. Fred Turner, the lawyer chosen to represent Clarence Earl Gideon after the Supreme Court said in a landmark case that the indigent Mr. Gideon had the right to such representation, died on Sunday at home in Panama City, Fla. He was 81. Underlining the rationale for the Supreme Cou
 Donald Gratz, a craftsman in metal whose creative realizations transformed the renderings of artists and architects into objects of art, died on Nov. 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Roberta Brandes Gratz. The owner of Gratz Indust
 Hal Walker, one of the first African-American journalists on television news in the 1960's, died Tuesday in his home in Reston, Va. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter Sarah Walker. Mr. Walker was the first black correspondent hired by CBS News, and c
 Teddy Wilburn, who with his older brother Doyle formed one of the most popular country-music duos in the 1950's and 1960's and later played a vital role in the careers of Loretta Lynn and Patty Loveless as song publisher and manager, died on Monday in Nashville. He was 71. The cause
 Bernard S. Cohn, who spent his life studying and writing about British influence on modern Indian culture and society, died here on Tuesday after a long illness. He was 75. Mr. Cohn, a professor of anthropology and history at the University of Chicago until he retired in 1995, was k
 Sadegh Khalkhali, the first leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Courts in Iran after the 1979 revolution, who ordered the execution of hundreds of people, died Wednesday. He was 77. Mr. Khalkhali had had Parkinson's disease for a long time, his publisher said. Mr. Khalkhali's son, M
 Bishop Robert L. DeWitt, who helped change the face of the Episcopal Church in America with the ordination of women, died on Nov. 21 in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 87. Over six decades as a churchman, he became a socially liberal activist widely known for outspoken advocacy in the
