 Arthur J. Katzman, who was sometimes called "the conscience of city government" during 29 years as a member of New York's City Council, died on Sunday at his home in Mountain View, Calif. He was 88 years old. He died in his sleep after a brief illness, his family said. An ad
 Chandler Brossard, a writer, an editor and an educator, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Brossard, who was self-educated, wrote or edited 17 books of fiction and nonfiction. He was th
 James T. Griffin, vice president and general counsel of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, one of the nation's richest, died on Saturday at Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 60 and a resident of Chicago. The cause was complications related to cance
 John E. Lockwood, a lawyer who was formerly chief legal adviser to the Rockefeller family and chairman of the New York Public Library, died yesterday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 89. He had been in declining health in recent months, said Squire N. Bozorth, a friend who is a p
 John S. Lampe, a senior vice president and director of advertising for Paine Webber Inc., the securities concern, died on Monday at his house on Nantucket Island. He was 65 and lived in Short Hills, N.J. The cause was a heart attack, said Jeffrey Z. Taufield, a spokesman for Paine W
 Richard Jordan, an award-winning actor who appeared in more than 100 plays on and Off Broadway and in a score of Hollywood films, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56. The cause was a brain tumor, said his daughter, Nina. Mr. Jordan, a native New Yorker, spen
 Arthur J. Katzman, who was sometimes called "the conscience of city government" during 29 years as a member of New York's City Council, died on Sunday at his home in Mountain View, Calif. He was 88 years old. He died in his sleep after a brief illness, his family said. An ad
 Vincent F. Ostrom, president of the Putnam Trust Company in Greenwich, Conn., from 1959 to 1978, died on Monday in Greenwich Hospital. He was 80. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Mitchell. Mr. Ostrom was born in Brooklyn and began his banking career in 1930 at the
 William L. McGowan, a retired president of the Civil Service Employees Association, the largest statewide public-employee union in New York, died on Friday near Buffalo. He was 69. He suffered a heart attack at his home in Orchard Park, the union said. When Mr. McGowan was e
 Dr. Aleksandr M. Nekrich, a Russian historian at Harvard University, died on Tuesday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge. A resident of Cambridge, he was 73. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said Prof. Adam Ulam, a colleague and former di
 Dr. Kenneth V. MacKenzie, a Navy scientist for more than 30 years who took part in dives into the deepest areas of the oceans and was a pioneer of anti-submarine warfare technology, died on Tuesday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 82. A daughter, Kay Mighell of Seattle, said that the caus
 Max Henry Fisher, a British merchant banker and who as the editor of The Financial Times in the1970's turned it into a European journal of information and opinion, died Sunday, the paper reported yesterday. He was 71. The cause was not given. Born in Berlin, Mr. Fisher, a Je
 Dr. Richard B. Wearn, a retired chemical researcher and former executive of the Colgate-Palmolive Company in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at the South Carolina Episcopal Home in West Columbia, S.C. He was 77. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which is known as Lou Gehrig's 
 Don Hall, a singer and songwriter who helped found People Taking Action Against AIDS, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 44 and had homes in Manhattan and Bellport Village, L.I. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Robert Starr. In 1986
 Donald S. Macdonald, a retired Foreign Service officer and professor emeritus of Korean studies at Georgetown University, died on Sunday at a Washington hospice. A resident of Washington, he was 74. He had been ill with cancer for three months, his family said. Mr. Macdonald
 Edouard A. Stackpole, a leading expert on whaling, an author and curator, died on Thursday at Nantucket Cottage Hospital in Nantucket, Mass. He was 89. He died of complications following a stroke, his family said. A descendant of a family of whalers, Mr. Stackpole was born i
 John Wallace Griffin, who mixed archeology and history in exploring Florida's past, died yesterday at his home in St. Augustine, Fla. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said Page Edwards, Jr., the executive director of the St. Augustine Historical Society, where Mr. Griffin worked as 
 Meade H. Esposito, the Democratic leader who reigned over Brooklyn politics for a quarter century and whose power influenced New York State politics and extended onto the national scene, died last night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 86. Mr. Esposito, w
 Robert Zeppa, a surgeon who developed a life-saving operation for cirrhosis patients, died on Thursday at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 68 and lived in Miami. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, his family said. Dr. Zeppa was the president of the American Surgic
 Russel B. Nye, a retired professor and historian of American culture and literature who won the 1945 Pulitzer Prize for biography, died on Thursday at a hospital in Lansing, Mich. He was 80 and lived in East Lansing. The cause was complications from a fall, his family said. 
 Aaron Wildavsky, a political scientist who was an expert on the analysis of public policy and government budgeting, died Saturday at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 63. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Adam. Dr. Wildavsky (pronounced will-DOV-skee), a former presid
 Daniel Gutman, a legal counsel to Gov. Averell Harriman of New York, a dean of the New York Law School and the founder of a night court for small claims in New York City's Municipal Court, died yesterday at his home in Carmel in Putnam County, N.Y. He was 92. The cause was not immed
 Stanley L. Kaufman, a lawyer who specialized in bringing suits on behalf of corporations' disgruntled stockholders, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was cancer of the liver, his family said. Mr. Kaufman was the senior par
 Louis Archibald Gillies, a retired rear admiral who commanded the New York Naval Militia until he retired in 1962 after 42 years of service, died on Aug. 31 in Warwick, R.I. He was 90 years old. He had suffered a brief illness, his family said. Admiral Gillies, a native of N
 Leonard Bocour, an artist and paint manufacturer involved in the vogue of acrylic painting that swept modern art in the 1960's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was heart failure after a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Bocour, a native of M
 Stanley L. Kaufman, a lawyer who specialized in bringing suits on behalf of corporations' disgruntled stockholders, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was cancer of the liver, his family said. Mr. Kaufman was the senior par
 William A. Raidy, a Broadway and Off-Broadway theater critic for the Newhouse News Service and The Star-Ledger, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Fred Koven, a friend. Mr. Ra
 Elmer M. Blistein, a humorist and emeritus professor of English at Brown University, died on Friday at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 73. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, a university spokeswoman said. Mr. Blistein graduated from Brown in 1942 and receiv
 Henry T. Mortimer, a former New York stockbroker who had been living in retirement in Palm Beach, Fla., died on Monday at his son's home in Southampton, L.I. He was 77. The cause of death was emphysema, said John Jay Mortimer, a brother. Mr. Mortimer retired early this year 
 Austin G. Cooley, a telecommunications pioneer who helped develop the fax machine, died on Tuesday at his home in Sequim, Wash. He was 93. The cause of death was a stroke, said his wife, Helene. As a student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1920's, Mr. Coo
 Joseph Scoma, who, with his brother Al, turned a six-table coffee shop into a landmark restaurant on Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco, died on Friday at his horse ranch in Sebastopol. He was 77. The cause was emphysema and heart trouble, his brother said. The two men opene
 Mortimer Brandt, a former New York art dealer who had been living in retirement in Baltimore, died there on Monday. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Sandra Waters. Mr. Brandt was an art dealer who operated a gallery at 15 West 57th Street in Manhattan for 3
 Prof. Robert J. Clements of Mahopac, N.Y., a Renaissance scholar who started the program of comparative literature at New York University in 1965 and headed it until 1978, died yesterday at Putnam Hospital Center, Carmel, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, according t
 Bernard P. Stengren, a retired public information official of the Consolidated Edison Company in New York, died yesterday at Central General Hospital, Plainview, L.I. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Elizabeth. Mr. Stengren, who was known as Bud, became a publ
 Bruce B. Teicholz, who helped save many Jews from the Nazis in World War II and later became a real-estate owner, manager and broker in the New York area, died on Tuesday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. His family said he was 79. The cause was heart failure, and he had be
 G. Arthur Blanchet of Manhattan, a retired senior partner of the Wall Street law firm of Bigham Englar Jones & Houston, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 91. The cause was an abdominal infection, said Carole Brown, a daughter. During his 47-year career with
 H. Bart McHugh 3d, an expert on national radio and television programming, died on Wednesday at his home in Tinton Falls, N.J. He was 60. His family said he had had a brief illness. At his death Mr. McHugh was senior vice president and associate director of the National TV-R
 Lee Wagner, the founder and original owner of TV Guide, died on Tuesday at the Eisenhower Memorial Hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 83. His wife, Esta, said the cause was a stroke. In 1935, shortly after he began practicing law in Manhattan, Mr. Wagner started as an 
 Read Viemeister, an industrial designer, died on Sunday at his home in Yellow Springs, Ohio. He was 70. His family said he had had an extended illness. Mr. Viemeister designed for print media, packaging, products and architecture. In 1947, he was among a group of designers a
 Leon Liebgold, a veteran actor who performed for 50 years on the Yiddish stage and starred in films during the golden age of Yiddish movie-making in the 1930's, died on Sept. 3 in New Hope, Pa. He was 83. Mr. Liebgold starred as the ill-fated son in the 1937 Yiddish film classic, "T
 Leslie N. Gay Jr., a retired official of the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs, died last Saturday while on vacation in Dalton, Mass. He was 71 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was a heart attack, said a son, George. Mr. Gay started with the bureau in 1963 and was instrument
 Richard L. Berman, president of Moseley Associates, publishing consultants, died on Sept. 5. He was 64. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Berman, who lived in White Plains, was an expert in film and television production and spent 10 years with NBC in a variety
 Vincent G. Dethier, a biology professor at the University of Massachusetts and an expert on the behavior of insects, died on Wednesday at the Cooley Dickinson Hospital in Northampton. He was 78. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family said. In 1986, Professor Det
 David G. Cogan, an international leader in ophthalmology who discovered radiation-induced cataracts in the survivors of the atomic bombing of Japan, died on Thursday at a hospital in Wayne, Mich., while on a trip. He was 85 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack,
 Erich Leinsdorf, a conductor whose abrasive intelligence and deep musical learning served as a conscience for two generations of conductors, died yesterday at a hospital in Zurich. He was 81 years old and lived in Zurich and Sarasota, Fla., and until recently also had a home in Manhattan.  
 Claude Renoir, a movie cameraman and director of photography who was a grandson of the Impressionist painter Pierre Auguste Renoir, died on Sept. 5 in Troyes, France, 55 miles east of Paris. He was 79 years old and had a home in the village of Essoyes, not far from Troyes. Critics p
 David G. Cogan, an international leader in ophthalmology who discovered radiation-induced cataracts in the survivors of the atomic bombing of Japan, died Thursday at a hospital in Wayne, Mich., while on a trip. He was 85 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack, hi
 Harold J. Boreanaz, a defense lawyer in Buffalo whose many clients included a former mayor of Syracuse, died on Friday in the Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo. He was 62 and lived in Williamsville, a Buffalo suburb. The cause was a small intestinal cancer diagnosed several w
 John Butler, a prolific and popular ballet choreographer, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Melvin Dwork, a friend. Mr. Butler was best known for his pas de deux "After Eden," a portrait of
 The Earl of Westmorland, a former chairman of the Sotheby Parke Bernet Group, the international auction company, died on Wednesday in Tetbury, England, near Bristol. He was 69 and had homes in London and the Bristol area. The Times of London said he had earlier suffered a paralyzing
 Harry Bakalian, science editorial director of the school division at Prentice Hall publishers, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause of his death was a heart attack, a family spokesman said. Mr. Bakalian spent 10 years at Prentice Hall with responsi
 Lester S. Block, a retired senior vice president for R. H. Macy & Company, died at his home in Princeton, N.J., on Sept. 1. He was 76. The cause was heart disease, a family spokesman said. During his 30-year career at Macy's, Mr. Block served on the board of directors of the
 Mark Jollie, the financial administrator of the New York City Opera since 1987, died on Thursday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 41 years old and lived in Manhattan. Susan Woelzl, the spokeswoman for the New York City Opera, said that the cause was AIDS. Mr
 Raymond Burr, the burly, impassive actor who played the defense lawyer Perry Mason and the police detective Robert T. Ironside on television, died on Sunday at his ranch in Dry Creek Valley, near Healdsburg, Calif. He was 76. The cause was kidney cancer, said his doctor, Paul J. Mar
 Robert Borthwick Adam, a Buffalo retailer and civic leader, died on Friday in his home in Buffalo. He was 75. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. He had worked for 44 years as the head of Adam, Meldrum & Anderson, the company that was the anchor of Buffalo's down
 Robert W. Corrigan, a former dean of the School of Arts and Humanities at the University of Texas at Dallas and an innovative drama educator, a critic and a writer, died on Sept. 1 in Dallas. He was 65. His family said the cause was Shy-Drager syndrome, a degenerative neurological d
 Ronald Parham, a Bloomingdale's executive who was assistant to the department store's former chairman, Marvin Traub, from 1978 to 1993, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 48. The center said the cause was acute lymphoma. Mr. Parham, who lived in
 Frederick Ungeheuer, a senior correspondent covering the financial industry for Time magazine, died yesterday after a fall from his 12th-floor apartment on East 70th Street in Manhattan. He was 61. Police Officer Scott Bloch said an investigation into the death had not been complete
 Iva Sergei Voidato Patcevitch, who for many years served as president and chairman of Conde Nast Publications, died yesterday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 92. Mr. Patcevitch, who came to the United States from Russia in 1923, initially worked for a Wall Street brokerage a
 Leon A. Katz, who represented the Flatbush, Marine Park and Sheepshead Bay sections of Brooklyn in the City Council from 1969 to 1982, died on Monday in Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kat
 Pierce Paley, a corporate lawyer and real-estate developer, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 56. The cause was stomach cancer, a family member said. Mr. Paley was a counsel to the firm of Hall, Dickler, Lawler, Kent & Friedman and
 Robert S. Josephy, an influential freelance book designer who became a leading fruit grower, environmentalist and political advocate in Connecticut, died on Saturday at his home in Hamden. He was 90. For three decades, beginning in the 1920's, Mr. Josephy was one of the leading free
 Stuart Linnick, a labor lawyer and former legal counsel of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association of New York, died in Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles on Saturday. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Linnick was a partner for m
 Edwin Emery, a journalism professor at the University of Minnesota and the author of books on the news media, died yesterday at Midwest Community Hospice in Minneapolis. He was 79 and lived in Minneapolis. The cause was leukemia, the hospice said. Mr. Emery taught at the uni
 Emanuel Zacchini Sr., who with his four brothers made a career out of performing a circus human cannonball act, died on Monday in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 84. Mr. Zacchini's 175-foot cannonball jump at 54 miles an hour in 1940 was a world record and made the act famous
 Jules Ritholz, a nationally known tax lawyer, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Ritholz was a senior partner in the firm of Kostelanetz, Ritholz, Tigue & Fink. His clients included major corporati
 William H. Osborn Jr., a retired investment banker and consultant with Lehman Brothers, died yesterday at his home in Locust Valley, N.Y. He was 72. His family said the cause was pancreatic cancer. A yachtsman, pilot, skier and photographer, he graduated from Princeton in 19
 Francis Warren Lawrence, a ranking tennis doubles player in the 1930's, a leading amateur golfer and an insurance executive, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Born in the Back Bay sec
 Irving Allen Dodes, an innovator in mathematics education in New York City's public schools and colleges, died, apparently of a heart attack, on Sept. 10 near his home in Quincy, Mass. He was 78. He had been missing for 13 days and was believed to have been stricken while taking a w
 James Tyeska, a bass-baritone who was also a voice teacher at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Sept. 5 at his home in New York City. He was 43. The cause was AIDS, his family said. Mr. Tyeska sang on the opera and concert stages. He was heard as Escamillo in the Peter Brook p
 Joseph G. Smith, a psychologist, a leading expert in consumer research and chairman of a New York market research company, Oxtoby-Smith Inc., died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Lido Beach, L.I. The cause was cancer, the hospital said.  
 Peter Mark Schifter, a theater, opera and television director who was nominated for a Tony Award for his work on the 1989 musical "Welcome to the Club," died last Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause was AIDS, said Doug Jones, a friend. In additio
 Dillard Munford, the wealthy founder of a chain of convenience stores, died on Wednesday at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 75. A family spokesman said that the cause was heart failure, and that until his death Mr. Munford continued to write editorial columns that appea
 Dr. Louis Zetzel, a gastroenterologist on the faculty at Harvard University Medical School and a private physician who made house calls until he was 77, died on Monday at the Newton and Wellesley Alzheimer Center in Massachusetts. He was 84 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. His family s
 Dr. Frederick Campion Steward, a botanist and cell biologist whose research in the late 1950's reshaped scientific knowledge of how plants regenerate, died on Monday at his home in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 89 and had been in poor health for several years. Dr. Steward, a Cornell Unive
 Varindra Tarzie Vittachi, a retired executive of Unicef, died yesterday at the home of his daughter, Anuradha Armstrong, in Oxfordshire, England. He was 69. She said the cause was cancer. Mr. Vittachi was a retired deputy executive director of the United Nations Children's F
 Willie Mosconi, acknowledged as one of the greatest pocket billiards players in the history of the sport, died on Thursday afternoon at his home in Haddon Heights, N.J. He was 80. Mr. Mosconi died of a heart attack, said members of his immediate family. "For hustlers like Mi
 Dennis J. Clark, who championed the underclass as a government worker, teacher, author, historian and foundation executive, died at his home in Philadelphia on Friday. He was 66. The cause was cancer, his family said. From 1971 until his retirement in 1988, Dr. Clark was exe
 Ethan Allen, a major league outfielder who later coached Yale baseball teams whose players included former President George Bush, died Wednesday in Brookings, Ore., where his son, Toby, lives. Mr. Allen was 89 and until recently had lived in retirement in Chapel Hill, N.C. Mr. Allen
 Torkel Opsahl, a Norwegian human rights expert who was directing a United Nations commission on war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, died Thursday in his office in Geneva. He was 62 and had his permanent home in Oslo. He died of a heart attack, Reuters reported, quoting United Natio
 Vernon Munroe Jr., a corporate lawyer who had been a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of White & Case, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. He had Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Munroe was born in Englewood, N.J. He gr
 Bruce Ferden, a conductor who made his Metropolitan Opera debut last October with the world premiere of Philip Glass's opera "The Voyage," died on Sunday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 44 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Fra
 C. L. Sulzberger, a prize-winning foreign correspondent and foreign affairs columnist for The New York Times for nearly 40 years and the author of two dozen books, most of them on foreign policy and world leaders in the cold-war era, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 80. M
 Robert E. Healy, a former chief executive of the Interpublic Group of Companies, an advertising holding company, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 89. He had been in failing health for some months, said his son Edward W. Mr. Healy, who sold Hoov
 Arnold Schneidman, an expert in the design and application of computer software for accountants, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 69 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. No cause of death was provided. Mr. Schneidman developed a computerized tax-preparation program
 Edward Baquet Sr., founder of Eddie's, one of New Orleans's most popular creole restaurants, died on Tuesday at University Hospital there. He was 71. The cause was leukemia, a disease he fought for a decade, family members said. Mr. Baquet opened the family-style restaurant 
 Jean-Rene Guerrand, patriarch of the family that owns the Paris-Based Hermes Group, died at his country home near Le Havre in Normandy last Friday. He was 89. His nephew, Jean-Louis Dumas, chairman of the fashion company, announced his death yesterday. Mr. Guerrand joined He
 Ken Wilson, a longtime executive at The San Francisco Chronicle, died on Monday at his home in Santa Rosa. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Wilson joined The Chronicle in 1953 as assistant news editor and later became news editor. When he retired in 1988
 Maurice McClelland, a champion of experimental theater who in his last years devoted himself to the fight against AIDS, died on Sunday at his home in Jersey City. He was 53. The cause was AIDS, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. McClelland founded the Space for Innovativ
 Edward Baquet Sr., founder of Eddie's, one of New Orleans's most popular creole restaurants, died on Tuesday at University Hospital there. He was 71. The cause was leukemia, a disease he fought for a decade, family members said. Mr. Baquet opened the family-style restaurant 
 Maurice Abravanel, a conductor who led a long, colorful career on several continents and headed the Utah Symphony Orchestra for more than three decades, died yesterday in Salt Lake City. He was 90. He died of natural causes, said Jeff Paris, director of marketing for the Utah Sympho
 Max Wechsler, a New York architect for more than 50 years, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, family members said. Mr. Wechsler was the architect and designer of office buildings, hospitals, schools,
 The Suffolk County Medical Examiner today confirmed the death of Norman Jaffe, an architect who had been missing and presumed drowned for more than a month. Mr. Jaffe, 61, of Bridgehampton, was last seen Aug. 19 before an early-morning swim. Family members believed "within t
 Jonathan Schenker, an executive with Ketchum Communications, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 42. The cause was complications from AIDS, said his companion, Peter Carzasty. At his death, Mr. Schenker was senior vice president and director for med
 Morris L. Levinson, a retired industrialist and lifelong philanthropist, died yesterday at his summer home in Townshend, Vt. He was 79. The cause was lung cancer, said a spokesman for the family. Mr. Levinson, whose permanent residence was in Palm Beach, Fla., was a past cha
 Nicholas J. Sciarra, district manager of Community Board 7 in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, died on Wednesday during a meeting at the board's offices at 44th Street and Fourth Avenue. He was 41. He died apparently after choking while eating a sandwich, said people who were at the meeting a
 Stanley J. Harte, a lawyer and real-estate developer in New York and Florida, died on Tuesday at his home in Palm Beach. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, said Alisan Harte Shenberg, his daughter. Mr. Harte, whose grandfather and father were real-estate developers in M
 Alvin Hasenberg, an executive in the confectionary industry, died on Sept. 16 at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, his family said. In 1956 Mr. Hasenberg joined the Chunky Corporation, and after Chunky'
 Julian Semyonov, a prolific Russian author of spy novels and thrillers whose crime fiction often portrayed the dark side of Russian life, died in the Kremlin Hospital in Moscow on Sept. 14. He was 61 years old. The cause was a heart attack, although he had been incapacitated for sev
 Kenneth G. Hancock, director of the National Science Foundation's chemistry division, died on Sept. 10 while attending a science conference in Budapest. He was 51 and lived in Rockville, Md. A foundation spokesman said Dr. Hancock, who was found in his hotel room, died of a heart at
 Leon Braun, a lawyer and a former deputy comptroller for New York State, died on Tuesday at his home in Coconut Creek, Fla. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, said John A. Garcia, a friend of the family. From 1961 to 1973, Mr. Braun was in charge of the retirement systems
 Dr. Benjamin H. Kean, an expert on tropical diseases who helped discover the cause of travelers' diarrhea and played a disputed role in the Iran hostage crisis as physician to the exiled Shah, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was colon cancer, said Adair
 Irving R. Wisch, who learned to milk cows as a boy at his family's dairy in Brooklyn and grew up to head the milk industry in metropolitan New York, died on Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Boca Raton, Fla., and Westport, Conn. The cause of death was car
 Brother Richard B. Power, a former president of Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 75 and lived in New Rochelle. The cause was complications after a surgical procedure, associates said. Brother Power was president of Iona from
 Irving R. Wisch, who learned to milk cows as a boy at his family's dairy in Brooklyn and grew up to head the milk industry in metropolitan New York, died on Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Boca Raton, Fla., and Westport, Conn. The cause of death was car
 Bruno Pontecorvo, an Italian-born physicist who was a pioneer in the study of the elusive subatomic particles called neutrinos and who defected to the Soviet Union in 1950, died Friday in Dubna, outside Moscow. He was 80. The cause was pneumonia, according to reports in Italian news
 The Rev. Christopher F. Mooney, professor of religious studies at Fairfield University in Connecticut, and winner of two national Catholic book awards, died on Saturday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 68 and lived at the Fairfield Jesuit Community. The cause was cancer, the unive
 Gino Robusti, a founder and former owner of the New York restaurant Quo Vadis for more than 30 years, died on Saturday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 82 and lived in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. He died after a long illness, said Gilberte Breslin, his daughter. Mr. Ro
 James H. Doolittle, an aviation pioneer and a retired lieutenant general in the Air Force who led the daylight air raid on Tokyo and other Japanese cities four months after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, died yesterday at the age of 96. He died at his son's home after suffering
 Joseph E. Choate, a former managing director of the annual National Boat Show in New York City, died on Saturday at Waterbury Hospital in Connecticut of Lou Gehrig's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. He was 84 and lived in Southbury. From 1949 to 1969, Mr. Choate organized 
 Michael Harvey, a theatrical producer and real estate investor, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 49. The cause of death was AIDS, his companion, Theodore Dell, said. Among his Broadway and Off Broadway productions and co-productions were "The Grass Harp" (19
 Ramon F. Berger, an executive and camping consultant for several Jewish philanthropies in New York and Rhode Island, died on Wednesday at Hospice Care of Rhode Island in Providence. He was 64 years old and lived in Providence. The cause was esophageal cancer, his family said.       
 Brother Richard B. Power, a former president of Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 75 and lived in New Rochelle. The cause was complications after a surgical procedure, associates said. Brother Power was president of Iona from
 Dr. Seymour Fogel, a molecular biologist and geneticist long associated with the City University of New York and the University of California at Berkeley, died on Friday in Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley. He was 74 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was cancer, his family said.      
 Andrew F. Tully Jr., an author who was one of the first American reporters to enter conquered Berlin in April 1945, died on Monday in a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Molly.  
 Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg, an authority on the plants of tropical islands in the Pacific, Western Atlantic and Indian oceans, died on Saturday at his daughter's home in Falls Church, Va. Dr. Fosberg was 85 and lived in Reston, Va. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Suzanne R
 John Pennel, the wiry, Memphis-born pole-vaulter who set eight world records in the 1960's and was the first man to clear 17 feet, died on Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 53. A resident of Westlake Village, Calif., he had been suffering from stomach and 
 Makaza Kumanyika, a civil rights leader in New York City in the 1960's when his name was Herbert Callender, died on Sept. 22 at his home in East Orange, N. J. He was 60. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Kumanyika helped lead civil rights protests as chairm
 Peter De Vries, a writer who was best known as a comic novelist and as a contributor to The New Yorker, died yesterday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter,, Jan. Renata Adler, a novelist and a staff w
 Seymour J. Wenner, an expert in Federal administrative law and a former administrative judge for the Federal Power Commission and the Postal Rate Commission, died on Monday at the Manor Care Nursing Center in Silver Spring, Md. He was 80 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was c
 William F. R. Ballard, an architect who was chairman of the New York City Planning Commission from 1963 to 1966, died on Friday in a London hospital. He was 88. The cause was a stroke that followed hip replacement surgery, said his son, Robert. Mr. Ballard served as head of 
 Alvaro Obregon Tapia, the former Governor of Sonora, Mexico, died on Monday in a hospital in Tucson, Arizona. He was 76. Mr. Obregon headed the northern border state from 1955 to 1961. He was born on Dec. 18, 1916, to Gen. Alvaro Obregon Salido, a Mexican revolutionary leader who he
 Carl Leff, co-founder of the National Spinning Company and a philanthropist, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 95 and had lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Leff, who graduated from Columbia dental school in 1919, joined his brother, Phillip
 Edward T. Littlejohn, an executive at Pfizer Inc. for 16 years, died Sunday in Montecito, Calif. He was 76. His wife, Ellen, said he died of kidney failure. Mr. Littlejohn, who was born in Sydney, Australia, and served eight years in the Australian Foreign Service, worked fo
 George Nichols Rainsford, who was president of Lynchburg College in Lynchburg, Va., for 10 years, died last Thursday at Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 65 and lived in Windsor, Calif. He died of colon cancer, the college said. Mr. Rainsford was a co
 Harry A. Sylvester, a writer of short stories and novels, died Sunday at the Friends Nursing Home in Sandy Springs, Md. He was 85 and had been a resident of Washington for nearly four decades. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. A native of Brooklyn, he gradu
 Howard J. Cerny, a New York City lawyer who was an unindicted co-conspirator and a Government witness in the 1974 criminal trial of two former members of President Richard M. Nixon's Cabinet, died on Sept. 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said hi
 J. Lindsay de Valliere, a former budget director of New Jersey and an official who helped set up the Federal Railroad Retirement Board, died on Friday at a nursing home in Red Bank, N.J. He was 92. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Mary Louise van der Wilden. M
 Jesse C. Dobson, a leader of AIDS treatment, information and advocacy organizations in San Francisco, died on Sept. 23 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland. He was 36 and lived in Oakland. The cause was AIDS, his family said. As director of Project Immune Restorati
 John F. Carroll, a leader of Irish-American organizations, died on Saturday. He was 67 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Carroll, who moved from Ireland in 1949, served as president of the United Irish Counties and the Galway Association and was a trustee of the Irish Institute and the Anc
 Max Knight, a writer, editor and translator, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84. The cause was complications that developed after a heart bypass operation in February, said Joseph Fabry, a friend with whom Mr. Knight published many short stories in German unde
 Peter Lipman-Wulf, a German-born sculptor who lived in the United States for nearly 50 years, died on Saturday in Hamburg, Germany. He was 88 and had homes in Manhattan and Sag Harbor, L.I. He died of cardiac arrest at the home of his wife's relatives, said Frank Mecklenburg, a fami
 Royce Franklin Ward, a civil engineer who helped develop the Watergate complex in Washington, died on Saturday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 84 and lived in Alexandria. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. He was born in Brooklyn, the son
 William P. Grayson, former executive vice president of Johnson Publishing Company and associate publisher of Ebony and Jet magazines, died on Sunday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 79 and had lived in Los Angeles since he retired in 1973. The cause of de
