 David Bale, a businessman, environmentalist and animal rights activist, died on Tuesday in Santa Monica, Calif., his wife, the feminist author Gloria Steinem, said. He was 62. Ms. Steinem said the cause was primary brain lymphoma, for which Mr. Bale had been hospitalized since July.
 John Gregory Dunne, the brashly insightful novelist, journalist, and screenwriter who wrote novels and successful works of nonfiction crammed with pungent dialogue, lavish brutality and vivid glimpses of the Hollywood demimonde, died on Tuesday evening in his Manhattan apartment. He was 71.
 Ibram Lassaw, an artist known mainly for his colorful, open-form metal sculptures and one of the last links to the original generation of the New York School artists, died on Tuesday at his home in the Springs section of East Hampton, N.Y, his family said. He was 90. Though he never
 Manny Dworman, a nightclub owner, musician and long a colorful fixture on the Greenwich Village scene, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Noam Dworman, his son. A mentor to comedians, Mr. Dworma
 Reginald Harold Jones, who guided General Electric in the 1970's through a phase of managerial changes and shifting focus toward new materials like plastics, died Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family reported. He was 86. Born in Britain and raised in the Unite
 Vincent Smith, an artist whose work depicted the rhythms and intricacies of black life in diverse styles, from a hard-edged, socially conscious expressionism to riots of dazzling colors and patterns, died last Saturday in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ly
 Nicola Paone, whose dialect-inflected songs about the joys, sorrows and insecurities of Italian immigrants sold millions of records and made him ''the Italian Bing Crosby,'' died on Dec. 25 in Albuquerque, said Lawrence Auriana, his friend and longtime neighbor in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 88.
 Steven H. Bazerman, a lawyer who handled cases that expanded intellectual property law to cover not just the names of products but the way they look and feel, died Dec. 19 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was complications of kidney failure, his wife, Beverl
 James Counsilman, perhaps the most innovative coach in United States swimming history, died yesterday at a nursing home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 83. He had Parkinson's disease, his son, Brian, said. Counsilman, known as Doc, was a molder of champions, an inventor, a consu
 Michael Straight, the patrician former magazine publisher who described in a political memoir his lingering involvement with Soviet spies whom he had first met when they were all students at Cambridge University, died yesterday at home in Chicago. He was 87 and also had a home on Martha's V
 Paul Hopkins, who became a celebrity of sorts in his final years for having given up Babe Ruth's record-tying 59th home run in 1927 while making his pitching debut for the Washington Senators, died last Friday at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. Hopkins, who lived in Deep River, Conn., was 9
 Samuel M. Nabrit, a scientist and scholar who was the second president of Texas Southern University in Houston, serving from 1955 to 1966, died on Dec. 30 in Atlanta. He was 98. Dr. Nabrit had a heart attack while at home recuperating from pneumonia and died at Emory Crawford Long H
 Takashi Ishihara, who marshaled the fierceness of a rugby player and the precision of an accountant to lead the Nissan Motor Company to global prominence, died on Dec. 28 at a Tokyo hospital. He was 91. The announcement of his death came in a statement by his son Yoshiharu that was 
 Tug McGraw, the colorful left-handed relief pitcher who helped the Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies capture World Series championships, died yesterday in the Nashville area. He was 59. The cause was brain cancer, said Larry Shenk, a spokesman for the Phillies. McGraw had s
 Francesco Scavullo, the ubiquitous photographer whose images glamorized the famous and the fashionable for more than 50 years in private portraits and dazzling magazine covers, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was not immediately known, said his agent, M
 John Toland, a best-selling historian whose book ''The Rising Sun: The Decline and Fall of the Japanese Empire, 1936-1945'' won the 1971 Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction, died on Sunday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 91 and lived in Danbury. The cause was pneumonia, said hi
 Danny Whelan, the trainer for the Knicks' two National Basketball Association championship teams and for the Pittsburgh Pirates' 1960 World Series champions, died last Friday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan, a day before his 85th birthday. Whelan had been in failing heal
 Joseph Church, a child psychologist whose groundbreaking books in the 1950's and 1960's shattered conventional notions on the ways young children mature and acquire language, died on Dec. 23 in New York, said his son, Joseph. He was 85. Dr. Church was widely known in his field for t
 Patrick Miller, a musician who led the experimental 1980's rock group Minimal Man, died on Dec. 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 51. The cause is not yet known, said his brother, Jan, who said that an autopsy had been performed but that the results were not yet available. His b
 Brian Gibson, the British film and television director known for his inspiring early collaborations with the writer Dennis Potter and for an eclectic array of projects ranging from Hollywood studio films to television documentaries, died on Sunday in London, said Ann Louise Bardach, a famil
 Dr. Melvin D. Yahr, whose groundbreaking study of the amino acid L-dopa in the late 1960's helped establish it as a leading treatment for Parkinson's disease, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Carol Yahr. Dr
 Steven Dorfman, who for nearly two decades wrote questions -- that is, answers -- for the television game show ''Jeopardy!,'' died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 48. The cause was complications of colon cancer, his father, Neil, said. A devotee of game shows si
 Jess, an artist whose idiosyncratic paintings and collages made him a cult figure in American art, died on Jan. 2 at his home in San Francisco, said Odyssia Skouras, his dealer in New York. He was 80. Jess, who dropped his last name, Collins, in the late 1940's when he broke from hi
 John A. Gambling, a popular morning radio personality in New York who for 31 years was the host of ''Rambling With Gambling'' on WOR, offering a low-key version of the news and a folksy banter to go with cornflakes and the drive to work, died on Thursday night at Bon Secours Hospital in Ven
 Charles A. Lewis, a horticulturist whose fascination with the soothing effects of plants on people led him to hospitals, jails and community gardens to study the deep and enduring roots of their benefits for human lives, died on Dec. 19 in Albuquerque. He was 79. The cause was acute
 Jake Hess, a pioneering Southern gospel singer and four-time Grammy winner who was a major early influence on Elvis Presley, died last Sunday at a hospital in Opelika, Ala., family members told The Associated Press. He was 76. He had had a heart attack on Dec. 16. Mr. Hess w
 Philip L. Geyelin, the Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who steered The Washington Post's editorial page against the Vietnam War, died late Friday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Geyelin (pronounced JAY-lin
 Dr. Bela Julesz, a neuroscientist whose wide-ranging work explored the way the human brain perceives depth, texture and shape, crossing the disciplines of neural science and psychology, died on Dec. 31, according to Rutgers University, where Dr. Julesz founded and directed the Laboratory of
 Chauncy Dennison Harris, a geographer who helped to put the Soviet Union on maps when the Kremlin sought to keep it terra incognita to prying foreigners, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Chicago. He was 89. He was the Samuel N. Harper distinguished service professor of geography emeri
 Cresson Kearny, an inventor and specialist in jungle warfare who wrote a best-selling manual on surviving a nuclear attack, died on Dec. 18 in Montrose, Colo. He was 89. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his daughter Stephanie Kearny, who is writing a biography of him.  
 Jaime de Piniés, who was a member of Spain's delegation to the United Nations for 29 years and who presided over the 40th General Assembly in 1985, died on Dec. 29 in Madrid, his son Jaime Jr. said. He was 86. Mr. de Piniés was a member of the Spanish delegation in 1956 and became
 Lawrence Bogorad, a leading researcher in plant biology who was widely known for his work on the synthesis of chlorophyll and on inheritance patterns in a variety of plants, died on Dec. 28 while vacationing with his family in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. He was 82. The cause was a stro
 Perry B. Duryea Jr., a Montauk lobsterman who became a commanding figure in New York politics during the 1960's and 1970's, ultimately losing the 1978 race for governor, died yesterday at Southampton Hospital. He was 82. His son, Perry Duryea III, said Mr. Duryea died at about 4:30 
 Philip L. Geyelin, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who steered the Washington Post's editorial page against the Vietnam War, died late Friday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Geyelin (pronounced JAY-lin
 Dr. Rainer Hildebrandt, a human rights activist and director of the museum near what used to be the Checkpoint Charlie crossing at the Berlin Wall, died here at his home on Friday, according to his wife, Alexandra. He was 89. Mr. Hildebrandt, a passionate anti-Communist activist aff
 Dr. Richard L. Masland, an expert on neurological disorders who spearheaded a landmark study in the 60's that tracked thousands of pregnant women to understand the causes of birth defects, died on Dec. 19 at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, said his so
 Yinka Dare, a 7-foot, 265-pound center who was the Nets' surprise first-round choice in the 1994 N.B.A. draft, then became a symbol of the franchise's misfortunes, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 32. Dare had a heart attack at his home, said his brother, Mich
 Billy Kluver, a scientist and engineer whose collaborations with artists helped give birth to the multimedia art forms of the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley Heights, N.J. He was 76. The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Julie Martin. In 1966 Mr. Kluver teame
 Perry B. Duryea, a Montauk lobsterman who became a commanding figure in New York politics during the 1960's and 1970's, ultimately losing the 1978 race for governor, died on Sunday at Southampton Hospital. He was 82. His son, Perry Duryea III, said Mr. Duryea died about 4:30 p.m. fr
 Robert Jordan, a leading American bridge player, died Saturday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Lorraine Jordan. On three occasions, Mr. Jordan came close to winning the world team title. In 1963, in St. Vincent, Italy
 Alan V. Tishman, a prominent member of the family whose real estate enterprises helped transform New York's skyline, died on Tuesday at his home on Park Avenue in Manhattan, his wife, Margaret, said. He was 86. Mr. Tishman ran the leasing arm of the Tishman family companies, a vast 
 Zane Edison Barnes, who started as a telephone lineman and became the first chairman of what is now SBC Communications, died Jan. 9 at his home in St. Louis. He was 82. The cause was complications of injuries sustained in a fall during a trip in 2001, the company said. Mr. B
 Charles Dumas, who was the first person to clear seven feet in the high jump -- but only after buying a $3 ticket to compete in the meet -- died Jan. 5 at his home in Inglewood, Calif. He was 66. The cause was cancer, his daughter, Keasha Dumas, said. From 1954 to 1962, four
 Dr. Frederick C. Redlich, a psychiatrist who studied the relationship between the social environment and mental illness and wrote a comprehensive medical and psychological biography of Hitler, died at Yale-New Haven Hospital on Jan. 1. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failu
 Dr. Norman G. Heatley, an Oxford University biochemist who helped revolutionize medicine by isolating early samples of penicillin and helping to convert it into a powerful drug that gave Allied troops an advantage in World War II, died Jan. 5 at his home in Oxford, England, according to the
 Donald Leight, a trumpet player who worked as a sideman with big bands, in nightclubs and on Broadway and whose life was the inspiration for the prizewinning play ''Side Man,'' written by his son, Warren, died on Jan. 3 in a Manhattan hospital. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The 
 Julian Neski, an architect whose modernist houses among the fields and dunes of the Hamptons were landmarks in weekend living, died on Jan. 8 at the Kateri Residence in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Water Mill, N.Y. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's diseas
 Ray Stark, one of the most successful independent producers in postwar Hollywood, died yesterday at his West Hollywood home. He was 88. Mr. Stark, whose health had been flagging for some time, died of heart failure, said his daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey. As a producer, Mr
 James M. Early, an electrical engineer who pioneered increased transistor performance in the 1950's at Bell Labs, died on Jan. 12 at the veterans hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Palo Alto. The cause of death was severe asthma, which Mr. Early had suffered from s
 John W. Hechinger, a civic and business leader who guided a chain of home improvement stores for four decades and was the first appointed chairman of Washington's City Council, died on Sunday at his home. It was his 84th birthday. The cause was a respiratory problem, after a long il
 Prince Alfonso Hohenlohe-Langenburg, who turned the Spanish fishing village of Marbella into a glittery jet-set playground, died Dec. 21 at his home there, the town authorities told Agence France-Presse. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, the authorities told European newspap
 Ray Stark, one of the most successful independent producers in postwar Hollywood, died Saturday at his West Hollywood home. He was 88. Mr. Stark, whose health had been flagging for some time, died of heart failure, said his daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey. Mr. Stark was a pr
 Dr. Howard A. Eder, a New York doctor and scientist whose studies of cholesterol led to breakthroughs in the understanding of heart disease, died on Jan. 15 in Raleigh, N.C. He was 86. The cause was sudden cardiac arrest after heart surgery, said Dr. Rebecca Eder, a daughter, of Peo
 Harry Brecheen, an All-Star pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals who won three games in their 1946 World Series victory over the Boston Red Sox, died Saturday at a nursing facility in Bethany, Okla. He was 89. Brecheen, who lived in Ada, Okla., had been in failing health and broke a 
 Max D. Barnes, who wrote many of country music's most evocative hits during the last 30 years, including ''Chiseled in Stone,'' about the death of his son, died here on Jan. 11. He was 67. The cause was complications of pneumonia, family members told The Nashville Tennessean.       
 Paul I. Abell, a chemistry professor who on a field trip in 1978 at Laetoli in East Africa came across the footprints of ancestral bipeds made famous by Mary Leakey, died Jan. 12 at his home in Kingston, R.I. He was 80. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Abe
 Jerry Nachman, an old-style newshound who had an award-winning career in highly visible jobs in broadcast and newspaper journalism, most recently as editor in chief and vice president of the cable news network MSNBC, died late Monday or early yesterday at his home in Hoboken, N.J., MSNBC sa
 John Holter, a machinist who in trying to save his son's life invented a device to treat a dangerous brain disorder, died on Dec. 22 in a nursing home in Devon, Pa. He was 87. The cause was complications of a stroke he suffered in October, said Lou Dardozzi, a longtime friend.      
 Sheldon C. Katz, chairman emeritus of the Rent Stabilization Association of New York City, an outspoken opponent of the city's rent controls and a spokesman for building owners in the separate system of rent stabilization, died on Sunday at his winter home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 69 and
 George Woodbridge, a cartoonist and illustrator whose hapless, baggy suburbanites peopled Mad magazine for nearly 50 years, died in a hospital on Staten Island on Tuesday. He was 73 and lived on Staten Island. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Deborah Woodbridge. Known
 The Rev. Laton Earle Holmgren, a former general secretary of the American Bible Society, who oversaw the distribution of millions of Bibles around the world, died on Sunday at his retirement home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 88. His death was announced by the society's headquarte
 Dr. Merrill W. Chase, an immunologist whose research on white blood cells helped undermine the longstanding belief that antibodies alone protected the body from disease and micro-organisms, died on Jan. 5 at his home in New York City, according to the Rockefeller University, where he worked
 Dr. Robert E. Shope, an expert on viruses who was the principal author of a highly publicized 1992 report by the National Academy of Sciences warning of the possible emergence of new and unsettling infectious illnesses, died on Monday in Galveston, Tex. He was 74. The cause was comp
 Bob Keeshan, who delighted millions of children and their parents for three decades as television's gentle, patient Captain Kangaroo and before that as the original Clarabell the Clown on the old ''Howdy Doody Show,'' died yesterday in Vermont, his family said in a statement to The Associat
 Helmut Newton, the prolific, widely imitated fashion photographer whose provocative, erotically charged photos were a mainstay of Vogue and other publications, died yesterday after a car crash in Hollywood. He was 83. The Los Angeles police told The Associated Press that Mr. Newton 
 Don Lawrence, a British science fiction illustrator and cartoonist, died on Dec. 29 in a hospital near his home in Jevington, East Sussex, England. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia and emphysema, said his wife, Lis. Mr. Lawrence was overlooked in his home country, but was 
 Harry Fleetwood, whose deep voice and sly wit gave smooth, intelligent guidance to fans of all-night classical music radio in New York City for nearly three decades, died last Sunday in Manhattan, his friend Jerry Kaufman said. He was 86. Fleetwood, as he was known professionally, w
 Helmut Newton, the prolific, widely imitated fashion photographer whose provocative, erotically charged photos were a mainstay of Vogue and other publications, died on Friday after a car crash in Hollywood. He was 83. The Los Angeles police told The Associated Press that Mr. Newton 
 Rambling Rudy Phillips, who spent his teenage years hopping freight trains to everywhere and nowhere and lived to become one of America's last and best-known Depression-era hobos, died on Jan. 9 in Harrisburg, Ill. He was 92 when he caught ''the westbound to heaven,'' in the time-ho
 Billy May, a prolific arranger best known for his work with Frank Sinatra, died on Thursday at his home in San Juan Capistrano, Calif., his wife, Doris, said. He was 87. Sinatra's 1957 album ''Come Fly With Me,'' the first of several collaborations with Mr. May, reached No. 1 on the
 Dr. Joseph Warshaw, an expert on fetal growth and neonatal medical care who advanced the understanding of the way organs mature in normal and diabetic pregnancies, died Dec. 29 in Burlington, Vt. He was 67. The cause was multiple myeloma, according to the University of Vermont, wher
 Olivier Guichard, a guardian of France's Gaullist legacy and architect of its regional administration, last Tuesday at his home in Paris after a long illness, according to an announcement placed in the name of his family, which appeared in Le Figaro. He was 83. Led by President Jacq
 Jack Paar, the prickly, often emotional and always unpredictable humorist who turned late-night television into a national institution when he was host of the ''Tonight Show'' from 1957 to 1962, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his son-in-law, Stephen Wells, told The Associat
 Jacob Mishler, a senior federal judge for the Eastern District of New York and its chief judge for 11 years, died on Monday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92 and lived in Garden City, N.Y. His death was announced yesterday by the court, which he served for 43 years after his appoin
 Crazylegs Hirsch, the Hall of Fame receiver for the Los Angeles Rams' high-powered offenses of the early 1950's, died yesterday at an assisted-living facility in Madison, Wis. He was 80. His death was reported by the University of Wisconsin, where he starred as a halfback in the ear
 J. Folwell Scull Jr., who was headmaster of the Poly Prep Country Day School in Brooklyn from 1949 until 1970, died on Jan. 21 in Medford, N.J., the school announced. He was 98. Mr. Scull was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned a bachelor's degree in 1928, 
 Jack Sheinkman, the former president of the nation's largest union of clothing workers and a major strategist in one of labor's biggest victories, organizing the textile maker J. P. Stevens, died yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia
 Former Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher, who commanded the Navy spy ship Pueblo when North Korea seized it in 1968, beginning 11 months of captivity and torture for the crew, died on Wednesday at a hospice in San Diego. He was 76. Mr. Bucher, who was widely known as Pete, his childhood nicknam
 Charles Brown, an actor celebrated for his comic exuberance and dramatic power in plays on Broadway by Samm-Art Williams and August Wilson, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Cleveland. He was 57. The cause was cancer, The Plain Dealer reported. For 17 years Mr. Brown was a stalw
 Egon Mayer, a Hungarian immigrant who became one of the leading sociologists of American Jewry, studying the intricate variety of religious observance and interfaith marriage, died yesterday at his home in Laurel Hollow, N.Y. He was 59. The cause was cancer of the gall bladder said 
 Thomas G. Stockham Jr., a pioneer in digital electronics whose work helped to pave the way for the transition from long-playing records to compact discs, died on Jan. 6 in Salt Lake City. He was 70. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Martha, said. An electrical eng
